Wednesday, April 15, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vandals strike Watts and Little

By CLISBY HALL

During the weekend of April 3-5, two Davidson College dorms were vandalized, resulting in the destruction of one television set and the forced removal of a pay phone from its wall mounting. There are no suspects in either of the incidents.

According to Tom Jennings, Director of Residence Life, the first incident occurred Friday night when someone knocked the first-floor telephone and its shelving off the wall in Little. Having received no major damage, the phone itself has been remounted. The phone company’s service charge for repairing the phone has not yet been determined.

The second incident apparently occurred Saturday night and involved the television sets in the lounges of Little and Watts. The television in Little was pulled from its locking system on the wall and was left hanging by its electrical wires. No damage was done to the television itself. However, the television in the lounge of Watts dormitory was damaged extensively. Someone ripped the back off the television, tore out its circuit board, and pulled off the antenna. Repair estimates for the Watts television totaled $300, but it will not be repaired because the unit was several years old. Jennings plans to replace the television temporarily with a small 19” portable set with some sort of locking system.

Jennings said that the vandalism will have a direct impact on a contract which has been signed with RCA to “upgrade campus televisions next fall. Part of the contract was contingent on selling the televisions we have now in good condition. So we will now have a replacement loss of $300.”

In response to the destruction, the SGA passed a resolution which condemned acts of vandalism and encouraged anyone possessing information about these incidents to report it to the Dean of Students. SGA President Conrad Doenges commented, “The only way vandalism is going to stop is if people are turned in and see the consequences of such action.” Dean of Students Will Terry agreed, noting that “almost as culpable as the person who does the damage is the person who sees it done and fails to report it.” But, he also emphasized that, “There is a good deal of carelessness and inconsideration, and there is some malicious damage partly as a result of alcohol and partly as a result of immaturity and the inability to handle stress.”

Terry pointed out that already this year, destruction has resulted in the loss of housing privileges. “Two people have lost their privilege of living on campus next year, and one person is about to,” he said. Terry resisted suggestions that the Code of Responsibility was not working. “The Code of Responsibility is operative and does work. If people are unwilling to report Code of Responsibility violations, it is telling me that students don’t want a first-class campus. If that’s the case, the Davidson experience is a failure.”

Jennings, however, noted the possibility of changes in the future as well as changes already being instituted. For instance, there will be stricter sanctions next year, and freshman men will be dispersed among upperclassmen in Little Dormitory next year in an effort to combat this year’s excessive vandalism in Belk. Jennings concluded by saying, “We would prefer students to police themselves, but if this vandalism continues, we may have to look for other solutions.”

By LAURA GABEL

Bob Sutton, Vice President of Finance, will involve the SGA parking committee and Jackie Hughes, chief of police, to discuss the idea of charging a parking fee and other parking issues. Sutton comments, “We haven't made any decisions. We may not change anything, but I hear enough discontent that I think it’s an appropriate issue. We're about the only school that doesn’t set a parking fee. I'd like to generate funds for parking lots.” Sutton thinks that more lots and improved paving are in order, and that “registration fees are an appropriate way to pay for it.”

Many Davidson students have views on the parking situation. John Black ’89 is doing a survey of Davidson students for a political science class. In that survey, student housing and parking is a major concern. “I would favor the designation of closer parking lots for upperclassmen for the simple reason that every student will eventually attain seniority. Designation according to where students live would inhibit the efficient use of available parking space. On the whole, however, I think the parking problem is a minor one.”

John Annen ’87 explains that people parking illegally along PattersonCourt present a major safety hazard, especially when emergency vehicles need to get through. 

SHORTS GALORE! Solids, Prints, Stripes Walkers Tennis Shorts Bermudas Swims Jams Baggies Come See our Great Selections. Downtown Mooresville 9 am til 5:30 pm 664-4711.

“Students want too much convenience. There’s always a space in the satellite lots,” Annen says. “There’s not enough of it,” Robert Lutz affirms. “People just don’t know how to park. They park diagonally across straight lines, effectively taking up two spaces with one car.” 

Some students are not bothered by the parking situation. Carolyn Wilson laughs, “I have no clue since I don’t drive.” She summed up general opinion by saying, “All I know is there’s not enough of it!” On the other hand, Will Willoughby thinks the parking situation is “alright.” “I don’t think there’s a problem with it.”

Divestment continued

Speaking for S.A.A., Steve Baggarly explains that the group’s latest activities have been aimed at educating other students about the apartheid issue. “We’re basically an awareness-raising group and want to help students understand how our money in South Africa augments the South African economy and supports apartheid. We're making money off genocide in South Africa,” Baggarly states. “As a group, we don’t want to appear to be saying, ‘divest,’ because we want the students to decide how they want the Trustees to act. We mainly want to build awareness,” adds Kevin Dunn. “Many students say they want to help out and to make a stand but just don’t know enough about the issue.”

As Baggarly sees the issue, since Davidson receives dividends from ten million dollars of common stock in American corporations having branches in South Africa, essentially, the college is earning money from an oppressive government. In addition, he claims that divestment is “a last way that many black South Africans see that could divert bloodshed and lead to a peaceful change.”

However, according to Rick Love, the message that S.A.A. has been trying to send to the Trustees has been a bit confusing. He states that the study group formed by the Trustees to help them revise the 1979 Statement of Investment Policy has received very little input from S.A.A. The fact that four Davidson students are members of the study group, he says, shows that “the Trustees made a real effort to include a student voice. They [S.A.A.] need to put something in writing” if they want their views to become a part of the new policy, which will be drafted in May. “I only wish that they had directed their energies into influencing the drafting,” adds Love.

Meanwhile, at least there is agreement that apartheid is wrong and deserving of the college’s censure. The current investment policy (soon to be revised) notes that “There is certainly agreement from all elements in the College constituency that the South African government is in violation of human rights... and also... of Christian principles...” However, there is little agreement as to what should be done about apartheid. Not everyone concurs with the idea that divestment is the most peaceable means to help blacks change South African policy, and it is now up to the Trustees to decide, with the help and support of the student body, exactly what Davidson College will do to help effect this change.

Chambers continued

“You can study in your lounge, but that’s a social center. People are always there watching David Letterman or whatever. And in your room, late at night your roommate is probably asleep,” Doenges said. Doenges recommends that an alternative be offered to students who need to study after 1 a.m. He argued that police officers who come by rooms late at night could simply remind students who are in those rooms to clean up and turn lights out when they leave.

David Cors, elected as next year’s senior class president, argued that students were given no warning that such actions might be taken in Chambers. “I think you need to make students aware of the problems before you simply slam them with it. If you tell students what the problem is, you’d probably get a much better response,” Cors said. Doenges argued that putting statements on the back of doors to classrooms in Chambers would help make students aware of the problems in Chambers right now. He said that more complaints regarding the closing of Chambers will come as the term progresses. Cors expressed concern that the computer terminal room on the second floor of Chambers has been locked late at night, and that room, he said, contains the only phone with direct line access to police thereby creating greater security problems.