Features. The Davidsonian January 16, 1987

Frankly speaking, “Fandango” fails to excite
By PRISCILLA FAWCETTE

Austin, Texas. May 1971 and “The Groovers” are having their last wild fling before entering the very real and cruel adult world: all the makings of a cliched but potentially (and I underscore potentially) good film, right? Instead, this week’s pop film offers us the colorfully boring embarrassment, Fandango. I guess I should have gotten the hint by the opening scene, in which the well-meaning, mischievous graduates line up at a party to moon the startled parents of one of The Groovers. Maybe my expectations were too high.

But before I get carried away with the details of this exciting epic adventure, I should introduce the gang: There’s Gardner, the good-looking, worldly-wise, but irresponsible leader of The Groovers. His foil is Philip, an anxious, complaining ROTC, described by his own friends as a “weeney.” Kenneth has bushy red hair and has just run out on his fiancée. Lester appears to be in a coma the entire time, and Dorman is the obese, quiet, intellectual type.

Anyway (yawn) these characters set out on a pilgrimage to Mexico for DOM. They moon drivers, drink a seemingly infinite supply of beer and drive dangerously till they run out of gas. As if the enigma of DOM wasn’t enough to hold our attention, these hell-raisers find themselves involved in various risky escapades en route. Fortunately, the scary music and fast-paced montage warn us that The Groovers are about to face “imminent death,” as they tie their car to a moving train, shoot fireworks in a cemetery, and parachute from a plane.

But don’t make the mistake of thinking this film is all fun and games. Gardner has nostalgic dreams of a girl running in a field, remarkably similar to a 1970s Breck commercial. The Groovers also have a few serious conversations about friendship, women, war, and life. In fact, this theme of innocent, ephemeral youth on a quest to maturation is announced, blared, and screamed at the viewer throughout the film. For as Gardner so eloquently states in a final toast to The Groovers, “To us and what we were,” as Philip interjects, “To us and what we’ll be.”

I suppose one could find a few possibly worthwhile qualities about Fandango, such as its interesting title (fandango is a type of Spanish dance, if you're wondering), an occasional funny line, and a few good early seventies songs by Cream, Carole King, etc. However, none of these make the film worth seeing. Was this film ever popular? Why don’t we just keep reshowing The Graduate or Breaking Away?

Defenestration of Prague takes College Bowl title
By MARK CHEN

Some people look forward to the Superbowl. Others replay the incredible Penn State-Miami Fiesta Bowl. But both of these events are dwarfed by comparison with the immense, universal significance for humanity of the College Bowl Championship Match. It took place on Monday at 7:15 p.m. in the 900 Room. The two teams were meeting at the end of a grueling double-elimination tournament. Defenestration of Prague, top-heavy with returning veterans of intramurals past, had dominated its opponents. It had been ably led by seniors Ted Davis and Dudley Bell. They were complemented with the speed and intelligence of Buddy Martin, David Norris, and David Petranick. The team entered the finals without a single loss.

The name of the team came from its history majors. “Defenestration” means “throwing something out of a window,” and it refers to Prime Minister Jan Masaryk of Czechoslovakia, who mysteriously fell out of a window and died shortly before the Communist takeover of his country. (In an aside, I challenge the team to name the other famous defenestration of Czech history).

The challenger was Turn Your Head and Cough. It had met Defenestration in a match before and had lost. Despite being their only one, the loss put Turn in a tight spot. Under double-elimination rules, they would immediately be out if they lost again. However, a victory in the first game would give both teams even records. Defenestration would still have a shot at the championship in the extra and final game. Turn had to win the first game for another chance.

Turn was ready for the challenge with a talented group of players. It also benefited from veterans such as seniors Julian Wright and Fred Higgins. John Hutchinson and Chip Stone had played well throughout the tournament. The talent on both teams promised a long night. The match was ready to begin at 7 p.m. except for the missing players. Bell and Norris were missing, despite repeated calls by Defenestration’s captain. In the end, Defenestration had to start with only three players. Turn came out strong with the efforts of Wright and Hutchinson. By the end of the first half, the score stood at 130 to 30 in Turn’s favor.

Defenestration got a boost when Norris arrived to play the second half. The second half saw a revitalized effort on Defenestration led by Davis and Martin. Fighting against time, they came in quickly and rushed their answers. Despite their speed, the game ended with Turn on top at 160 to 150. They would have to play a second match.

Once again, Turn came on strong and took an early lead with good answers from Stone. Defenestration hurt itself with early answers that turned out wrong, putting them in the hole with -15 at one point. At the mid-game break, Turn led with 90 to 25. The second half moved almost like a carbon-copy of the last game. Defenestration roared back with rapid speed to take a lead. But it was thin, and Turn came in with a last answer before time ran out.Turn could not get it, and Defenestration won with 120 to 110. Though Defenestration won the championship, it was an excellent game by all players. Both matches were close and could have gone either way. The College Bowl talent has been good throughout the Intramurals this year. Many people looked impressive enough for the varsity College Bowl team. For all those interested in playing for the Davidson College Bowl team, there will be tryouts later in the term. The tryouts will be open to anyone who comes and is willing to practice and play with the team next year. They will be held in the first week of February. Three to four people will be chosen for the final team. For more information, ask anyone on the Davidson team. The members are Gordon Watkins, Edwin Page, Jeff Gregory, and Mark Chen. Those interested can also talk to Dr. Hansford Epes.

By STEVE MANK

At times, though we all may be loathe to admit it, the Davidson student seems a trifle hardened to the more sentimental moments this life has to offer. Perhaps it is the schoolwork, or the loneliness of being far from home; who knows—who knows why sometimes we don’t seem to be able to stop and feel just a little nostalgic. But Davidson students are not all stiff as a board. As one brother dug the grave, the other engraved a stone simply with “Flower”; chores of love, to be sure. And though the lovable pooch was planted within the hour, “a lot of tears dropped as a sacrifice and memorial to Flower.”

With similar honesty and melancholy, Winston Rost recalled, “my little brother stepped on a gerbil once and purple stuff came out so we tossed it.” Overcome with despair, Rost tried in vain, just slate rock and titanium. Beneath the hardness of a diamond, there’s a real beauty, a luster, if you will. With remarkable candor, certain Davidson students revealed the tearful reminiscence that ushers a pet from this world to the next. “The only pet my family ever had a funeral for was our dog, Flower,” explained Andrew Barron ’87. The black and white pup was the Barron boys’ best companion when the family moved to a farm the summer of '79. One day as Mother Barron was driving brother Jay and a friend to town, they discovered the crumpled remains of Flower in the road. The young boys brought the animal a quarter mile back to the house in a slow procession of tears. “She was,” recalled Barron.

Once, to forget the terrible hand that Fate had dealt him, launching desperately into what would seem to be a jovial conversation with Melinda Dennis ’87. But alas, Dennis’ own story was sadder still, “On Christmas Eve my hamster’s throat swelled and his eyes bulged and his tongue turned blue.” Ironically, by the time the sun rose on the day most associated with Birth and Salvation, the creature was quite dead. Barely able to restrain the tears, Dennis whispered, “We took it to the vet; they take care of things like that, you know.”

Some students told stories which provided grim reminders of the mere gossamer barrier which separates this world from the next. Aimee Gonder '87 revealed the bizarre events that transpired on the day she mowed too near the concrete slab that marked the grave of her doberman. “When my mower hit the slab and broke it,” recalled Gonder, her face ashen, “the mower broke, too.” Cadet Dean Williams ’87 (Maj. ROTC) had a similarly spooky tale to tell. “My grandmother’s cat was buried in muddy ground in her backyard. One day after a storm when she was walking around back there, her foot sank down to where she could see the plastic bag. That’s really true—I promise.”

While some students gave their pets simple funerals (Laney Gibbs ’87 sadly explained, “We have Dempsey Dumpster funerals”), others had surprisingly involved services. Pam Wright ’88 not only buried her parakeet beneath a feeder and wrote it a eulogistic poem, but she interred it below a stone with no words on it: “I decided not to write on the stone because it could not read.” Luckily it could understand good occasional poetry.

Some, more tortured students blanketed their sorrow behind a patchwork of quips, witticisms, and therapeutic hilarity. Brooke Knight ’88 found that he could only bear the burden of his dog having to be put to sleep with the support that laughter lends. “My brother said that the drive to the vet’s was like a funeral procession because we were all driving separate cars, so my mother said ‘except we didn’t have the lights on.’”

Finally, even more surprising than the guarded emotions of the students is the probing introspection of the professors of Davidson. Searching for the right words, John Engell, in a rare moment of truth, disregarded the indifference often embraced by a Doctorate degree. “Every now and then, we, my wife and I, get calls from cemeteries urging us to buy funeral plots.” During one “spate” of these calls, Engell was awakened from an afternoon nap—he swore that such midday interludes of somnolence were rare—by a woman offering him two plots for the price of one. “It seemed like a wonderful offer so I asked her if my 17 dogs and 39 cats could have one of the plots and my wife and I could share the other. Ha ha!”

Interviewer: That’s amazing: 17 dogs and 39 cats.
Engell: No, it was all an elaborate charade; I was having fun at her expense. I never had a pet.

He collapsed in his chair, little able to hide the sorrow he obviously harbored deep within for some departed pet.