Women’s tennis on winning streak p.15

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXVII, Number 4

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, April 15, 1987

Williams discusses future

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Since last July Dr. Robert C. Williams has served Davidson College as Dean of the Faculty, Vice President of Academic Affairs, and Professor of History. A native of Boston and a graduate of Wesleyan University, Williams, who holds a Ph.D. in History from Harvard University, has written and edited a dozen books and nearly seventy articles on various topics such as nuclear power, Russian art and history, and linear algebra. Before coming to Davidson, Williams was Professor of History at Washington University in St. Louis for sixteen years and served as Chairman of the History Department and Dean of University College at Washington University.

In his nine months at Davidson, Williams has already undertaken an active role in the development of the academic environment of the college. As chairman of the Educational Policy Committee, Williams has coordinated the faculty’s efforts to propose an extensive overhaul of the calendar and the curriculum. Williams has also substantially upgraded the review process for faculty tenure.

I asked Williams to reflect upon his experiences at Davidson since his arrival nine months ago and to comment on the future of academic life at Davidson over the next few years.

Davidsonian: What made you decide to come to Davidson?

Williams: I come out of the liberal arts tradition, having done my undergraduate work at Wesleyan and having taught for five years at Williams College, and I felt that the liberal arts were increasingly taking a back seat at Washington University in St. Louis where I was before I came to Davidson. I was increasingly disappointed in a large research university which was really becoming a medical research corporation, with what appeared to be a diminishing emphasis on good teaching and the liberal arts. So the chance to play a leadership role at a good small liberal arts college really appealed to me.

Davidsonian: What impressed you most about Davidson on your first visit?

Williams: I came down here and literally fell in love with the place last February, mainly because of the people. Both my wife and I were struck by the fact that we remembered people’s names. Normally that’s difficult for us. Yet everybody we met at Davidson we liked.

Another thing that struck me is that Davidson has a Statement of Purpose. A lot of colleges don’t. The sense of mission is an inheritance from the Presbyterian tradition, which is really just absolutely invaluable for Davidson. This is an era when a lot of colleges have gone in for the latest fad, in terms of technology or profit-making. It struck me from the very beginning that Davidson was quite clear about what it wanted to do and what it didn’t want to do. It wanted to be a very fine liberal arts college. It didn’t want to be pre-professional, graduate, or market driven. I really liked that, realizing the importance of the liberal arts in a civilized society.

Davidsonian: What do you believe is the importance of the:

Continued to page 3

Dr. Robert C. Williams

Dean of Faculty and Vice President of Academic Affairs

Davidson

Students press against apartheid, urge divestment

By SUSAN PEARSALL

Recent actions by the anti-apartheid group Students Against Apartheid have caused the issue of the college’s policy toward South Africa to become one of concern for many students. The real responsibility for Davidson’s investment policy falls to the Trustees, whom group members feel have been very vague in their dealings with the problem. However, according to President’s Office spokesman Rick Love, S.A.A. has not been successful in communicating any of its views, except “Divest!”, to the Trustees. In addition, he says, the issue is “not that simple;” there are many people who believe that divestment is the wrong solution to the problem.

In the past few weeks, members of S.A.A. have been very active in calling attention to the issue of apartheid and school policy toward the divestment question. Each day for the past four weeks, S.A.A. members have held signs in front of Chambers with slogans such as “Apartheid Subsidizes Our Education,” or “Our Education Benefits From the Slaughter of Children.” This week also marks the second week of the Red Ribbon Campaign, meant to encourage solidarity among students who feel strongly about apartheid. Other activities have included circulating petitions asking the Trustees to take action and a vigil during a Trustees’ reception and during the Fall Convocation.

For the upcoming Alumni Weekend, they plan to pass out lists of Trustees’ addresses and encourage students to write letters asking the Trustees to take action. The group meets every Friday at 2:00 p.m. in Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia’s office to discuss their efforts to educate themselves as well as the rest of the campus about the effects of any proposed actions toward South Africa.

Continued to page 5