14 Friday, November 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Scabs have fallen off: Back to the real NFL
By CARTER GARRETT and ROB GRZESCZAK

The NFL is back. Although the bad taste left in every true fan’s mouth after three weeks of “scab” games will linger for some time, last Sunday’s games were played and watched the way professional football was meant to be. But real games or scab games, there are still some things around the league that are wrong, and that need to be changed. These are the kind of things that detract from the enjoyment of the game -- you know, the kind of stuff John Madden hates. Everyone has different tastes and preferences and is bound to object to different things, but we’re almost positive that everyone will be in total agreement on the following points that highlight the imperfections of the National Football League.

Many games nowadays start off on the wrong foot. In this, we’re referring to the “Budweiser Kickoff,” an advertising ploy where the opening (or any) kickoff is surrounded by a red, obnoxious Budweiser frame, and the fan is more or less forced to watch. This is ludicrous. How can a company sponsor a kickoff? And, if indeed they can, why is Budweiser doing it?

Assuming that the fan survives this “Budweiser Kickoff” ordeal, other things can soon disrupt the normal viewing of a good ball game. A lot of these things have to do with the rules of the game today, but others pertain to certain teams, personalities, uniforms/equipment, and even coaches’ play selection. To illustrate some of these disturbing events, picture an actual football game. Adjust that picture slightly so one of the teams is the Indianapolis Colts. It’s first down, the Colts have the ball on their own 20, and Gary Hogeboom fades back to pass. He zips one over the middle intended for the tight end, but it’s deflected. A defensive back dives for the ball, but comes up empty. Why? Because the NFL outlawed the use of stick-um, a disastrous move. Let’s face it -- five years ago that ball would have stuck to Lester Hayes’ helmet for an interception, and the fans would have probably been happy as the game continued.

Of course, the Colts have some troubles that other teams don’t have to worry about, such as ugly team uniforms and a domed stadium with artificial turf. But a sports fan is a sports fan, and even though there were some things wrong with the game, he or she will still enjoy it.

Davidson volleyball shows its work and commitment in tournament
By DAVID SCOTT

The 1987 Wildcat volleyball team has featured promising performances from many young players. One such player cited by Coach Rebecca Hawkins is freshman Ellen Ott, whose outstanding defense and passing skills have earned praises. Having no seniors and only a handful of juniors, Hawkins is looking forward to solid improvement as the team matures in the years to come. Especially encouraging to Hawkins is the positive response the ‘Cats have shown in the face of a difficult schedule. As a young team lacking experience and trying to compete in the tough Southern Conference, the ‘Cats have been overmatched throughout the year. Yet they have refused to back down. Rather than reaching a plateau in effort and performance, the team is continuing to improve even in the latter stages of the season.season. The team put in strong performances in a tough weekend of matches against conference members Western Carolina and UT-Chattanooga, and non-conference foe UNC-Greensboro. Coach Hawkins was especially pleased with the team’s performance against UNC-Greensboro, calling it their best performance of the year. The team played together as one unit with each individual doing her part. The team goals of maintaining a 90% serving average and succeeding on over half of all spiking attempts were both met. Several players had 100% serving nights and most had positive spiking percentages. With a solid all-around effort and a vital lift off the bench from sophomore Kathy MacDonald, the team took a far stronger and more experienced UNC-G team the full five games. As a result of hard work and commitment, Wildcat volleyball is likely to become a force to be reckoned with in the years to come. With the withdrawal of Davidson’s entire athletic program from the Southern Conference, the ‘Cats are bound to see some marks adding up in the win column in the near future.

But anyhow, we come to second down. Again Hogeboom fades to pass, but his line collapses as the defense blitzes. As the rush closes in, Gary gets hit and throws up a wounded duck, which is quickly picked off and returned for a score. But wait; Hogeboom is ruled “in the grasp,” the result of another terrible league rule. So the Colts have another chance, this time facing a third and long situation. They’ll operate from the shotgun; there’s the snap, and -- wait, they run the draw, gaining seven yards and forcing a fourth down punt. The crowd boos. Doesn’t everybody hate it when a team runs on third and long?

The punt is a bad one, setting up a chance for a good return. The receiving team forms a good wall, and suddenly the return man breaks into the open field, with only one man to beat, the punter, who happens to be in good position to make the tackle. But the return man is totally undaunted.

The game nears its end. The Colts are down by ten with less than a minute to go, and the other team has the ball. Although there are probably a few fanatically loyal fans in Indianapolis, most folks probably leave right about now to beat the traffic. This really isn’t a bad idea, unless the opposing team’s coach is Buddy Ryan. Last week Buddy’s team was in a similar position with the Dallas Cowboys, and while pretending to run out the clock, he suddenly called a bomb and then went on to score. Buddy, that was unethical; that’s worse than the “in the grasp rule” or artificial turf, although not quite as bad as the “Budweiser Kickoff.” With all the happiness and excitement brought on by the return of the regular players, it’s stuff like Buddy Ryan’s ethics, punters’ helmets, and the Colts’ uniforms that serve as constant reminders that the NFL is not a perfect world.

ASSERTIVENESS TIP: Stop submitting to others and start submitting to Inside Art!

Oh, my. Yeah. Our three-year and two-year scholarships make college easier. Not just easier to pay for. Even if you didn’t start college on a scholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts.

BE ALL YOU CAN BE.