Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dr. Ringle explores graves with students

By JENNIFER HOFFMAN

Recently, thirty Davidson students and assistant professor of anthropology, Dr. Ringle, were seen at the sites of several community graveyards. Some strange new religious cult to hit campus, perhaps? No, these students are members of the archaeology class Dr. Ringle is teaching this term, and graveyards have served as sites for the class’s lab on several occasions.

Graveyards, or “communities of the dead,” as Dr. Ringle terms them, reveal a lot about past cultures and customs. When studying a site, students divide into groups and make maps of the arrangement of the cemetery. Students then note such information as size, shape, position, and material of tombstones, as well as names, birth- and death-dates, epitaphs, and symbols on the markers. After collecting the data, the information is transferred to the computer, where it is stored and later analyzed for patterns.

Davidson students have collected data from the town cemetery on North Main Street, Hopewell Cemetery near Charlotte, and Ramah Cemetery. Studies thus far point to a high infant mortality rate. According to Ringle, “With 300 or 400 names in the computer so far, in the years up to 1900, 20 percent of all children died before their 10th birthday. But the stones show a fair amount of longevity, too.”

An overgrown lot near the Latta Plantation has served as another site for archaeological study. Once a farmhouse, all that is visible now are a few bricks. The first step was to clear the lot and map the area. Students have unearthed other portions of the house structure through their digging, as well as discovering several pennies, a fork, and a boot. This project has provided the opportunity to practice various archaeological techniques. Cristin Williams is presently using a new procedure which tests for the presence of phosphate in the soil at the site. High phosphate levels indicate human habitation of the area.

All of the students in the class are also involved in individual projects. These range from comparisons of male/female gravesites, studies of white and black cemeteries, and attempts to date the farmhouse near Latta. In addition, some students are researching Davidson’s past. Sophomore Charles Houck is digging in hopes of locating the remaining foundation of Stuart Hall.

This summer, Dr. Ringle will continue his excavation and mapping of a Mayan city near Valladolid, Mexico. Students Aaron Cohen and Charles Houck will be assisting. The National Geographic Society is sponsoring Dr. Ringle’s study, and the project is now in its fourth year. The site, located on the Yucatan Peninsula, is of special interest because it lies between two powerful regional centers. Ringle is investigating the influence each of these had on the city’s cultural and architectural styles.

The anthropology department has big plans for the future of archaeology at Davidson. The school has recently installed a new lab and is presently accumulating new tools and technology. This term’s class is the first to record data on the new computer system, and results will become more accurate with the addition of input from future classes. With the growing interest, students are hopeful that more advanced archaeology classes will be offered.

“It’s really fascinating to see how much can be learned from objects of the past,” said Cristin Williams. “Comparing customs and trends of yesterday with those of today helps us realize just how things have changed.”

Continued from page 9

Out of these differing norms grow a great deal of misunderstanding about sex and relationships. Intimacy is often excluded from sex. The dating game sets men and women up as social adversaries. Women say no and mean yes. All men are womanizers. Women like to be roughed up a little. “She never said no.” This adversarial nature in male-female relationships is damaging to people. Men who can only relate to women in this way deny themselves the expression of sexual intimacy that is uniquely human. Women are often irreversibly damaged by rape, carrying with them an uncontrollable fear of men and intimacy.

Burkhart stresses understanding of this adversarial relationship as a giant step toward changing the situation: “Understanding is coercive,” he says, “once men understand that sexual aggression is wrong, they won’t do it.” The biggest problem is admitting that a problem exists. Once this hurdle is cleared, then much of the work is done. Some men don’t see that forced sex is wrong. 98 percent of rape is acquaintance rape. It is legitimized to the point that it becomes a good thing. A woman’s best defense against sexual aggression is to understand her own needs and to articulate them clearly to avoid ambiguity: “I am not comfortable with this, and I intend to have you stop right now.”

Burkhart concluded by saying that sex and aggression are not appropriate bedfellows. The power struggle manifested in sexual aggression is a great tragedy of our society. Only through education of men and women can any effective change come about. A group of students is working to bring about change and awareness of the problem on the Davidson campus.campus. Davidson College Rape Crisis exists to work with sexual assault victims, provide educational services, and support services so the college community can learn before the fact. DCRC provides immediate counseling for the rape victim, later referring them to a counselor and providing support services. Their 24-hour hotline, now routed to Charlotte (375-9900), will be transferred in the fall to Davidson to provide immediate 24-hour crisis intervention. Presently, DCRC employs peer counselors who hold office hours from 7-9 p.m. in the Rape Crisis office in the Union. The number there is 892-2000, ext. 148. These counselors go through a rigorous 20-hour training program with follow-up programs held throughout the year. The officers for next year include co-coordinators Sherry Reynolds and Lisa Clark, treasurer Carla de Beck, and secretary Cally Hammond. Lee Hall will be a peer counselor.

- By NELLE McCORKLE

What Davidson manufacturing company competes with few other Southern firms, produces two completed products annually, and manages to maintain a national reputation? Blakely Organbuilders employs six people, two of whom are students working part-time. Operating since 1968, the firm constructs organs at its Depot Street location. The company builds new organs and services older instruments. Restoration, while not the primary focus of the company, takes up a considerable amount of time. Lee Torrence, Davidson class of 1983, says, “Complete restoration is about as complicated as making a new instrument.” Organ maintenance requires traveling through North and South Carolina and Virginia, Torrence said. Employees tune 35-40 organs twice a year. The firm designs its organs for specific settings on a commission basis. Blakely Organbuilders generally builds church organs, though employees have built one home and one college instrument. All the company’s organs possess mechanical action, which Torrence called “both more reliable and more sensitive musically.”

Torrence noted benefits of the firm’s location. “There are several real advantages to working in Davidson,” he said. According to Torrence, “He left because he decided that he wanted to make organs rather than play them.” Blakely worked for Wicks Organ Company, which designed and built Davidson College Presbyterian Church’s organ. Having traveled to Spain and France to study organs and organ-making, Blakely handles drawing up the initial plans and finishes every instrument tonally. Torrence completes mechanical work, while a head cabinetmaker prepares each case. Torrence became interested in organ-building as a part-time student employee. Although he tunes instruments, he does not read music. “I’ve always been interested in music. Construction of an instrument that we can play modern music on...not a harpsichord that nothing’s being composed for,” Torrence said. Ralph Blakely (’67) majored in organ at Davidson and attended the National Cathedral’s now-defunct College of Church Musicians.

Local resources include the college library, particularly its copy of Diderot’s Encyclopedia. One of only a few complete sets in the nation, the set includes an organ-making treatise written by monk Dom Bedo. Torrence said, “All the organ builders in the country have heard of it; people look at the pictures and talk about it.” Torrence also cited Davidson’s proximity to High Point hardwood suppliers. “This is probably the best place in the country to get wood,” he said. One thing that sets us apart is being in Davidson where we have Professor Welsh actively composing for the organ. Mr. Blakely (the firm's founder) feels that we should be building organs that require a really broad knowledge,” he said. Like Blakely, Torrence did not study organ-building formally. “The only way to learn is to apprentice to someone, really.” An English major, Torrence grew up in several cities, although his local connections include his grandfather’s birth in Davidson. He denied having a favorite organ project. “If you work on something that long, you have mixed emotions about it,” he said.

Organ construction requires an ordered process; Torrence described the steps involved, beginning with visiting the site. “It’s important that the church understand what they’re getting,” Torrence said. Employees and the client determine the instrument’s size; Blakely then executes a design. “The physical appearance of the organ tries to blend with the architectural surroundings and the sound,” Torrence said. Builders next construct a wind chest, the unseen box for pipes necessary for each keyboard and pedalboard. American Guild of Organists guidelines contain keyboard specifications. Blakely Organbuilders purchases pedals and keyboards but builds its own wind chest. Torrence called keyboard standardization valuable: “We think it’s better if it’s going to be in a church, and we don’t know who the organist is.” Supplying air to the wind chests constitutes the next organ-building step. Blakely Organbuilders installs an electric fan blower and mechanical air regulator, Torrence said. The final stage consists of the construction of the instrument’s case. Firm employees then transport the completed organ to its site.

Torrence attributed organ-building’s resurgence to Albert Schweitzer’s 1940s study of Bach. Dutch and German manufacturers revived the craft, but American organ-builders have seized the lead. “Most of the firms that are doing the best organ-building are very small firms much like this one,” Torrence said.