THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mark Chen, Keith Finch, Editors
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, John Gathings, Editors Emeriti
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
David Williams, Associate Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, Jim Dillon, News Editors
Tom Moore, Features Editor
Sudeep Sen, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Jeff Loser, Brian Moure, Advertising Managers
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

After the first issue of a paper, you always hope for a good response in the next one. Whether people agree or disagree, you look forward to reading and printing the replies. But what if there aren’t any? The mailboxes for the Davidsonian stayed empty this week. The lone opinion on these pages was submitted more than a month ago. At least among students, this past week has passed very quietly.

Which does not mean that Davidson has been hibernating into the early spring. There have been some changes and announcements which will affect every student, no matter how he or she feels. A new sports complex has been named and set for construction. A new arts facility will also be added to the campus. We were also flooded by the SGA Prospectives who came this past weekend. Along with the Prospectives, there seemed to be an inordinate number of parents and young children. The tourists are starting to make the rounds, taking pictures and listening to as much of our 150-year history as can be explained in an hour or more.

If Dr. Price Zimmermann were here now, he would probably be pleased with these tidings. I remember the speech that Dr. Zimmermann gave at the awards ceremony last spring. It was his last as Vice-President for Academic Affairs, and he intended to give us the best advice possible. I can’t quote him exactly, but he essentially said that Davidson was “on the verge of national recognition.” All the effort of the past decades, and all the efforts of the present, had to be directed toward moving beyond the verge and becoming a fully national school. Only then, when we had moved into the ranks of the Harvards and Yales, could Davidson be truly satisfied with its accomplishments.

Dr. Zimmermann got a good round of applause. Everyone there probably shared his feelings and understood what he meant. Davidson can look at a strong faculty which combines research with an excellence in teaching. We can all be proud of an athletic program which competes in Division I while maintaining its academic integrity. And we can also look to ourselves without false modesty and say, yes, we are a pretty smart bunch of college students. The road does not seem that far toward the kind of academic reputation which transcends any state or regional ties.

In this Sesquicentennial Year, we will hear many more speakers who will echo Dr. Zimmermann’s thoughts and others along these lines. New facilities are being built, change is in the air, and the tourists are coming through the campus.

But what will be harder to say is what a national reputation means and what benefits it truly provides. Are we forgetting other needs, and might we sacrifice a part of Davidson in this search for “national recognition?” I wonder if the new buildings will be ant-free. How will our athletic program fare without any conference affiliations? How much more will tuition increase in the future, and how much financial aid can the college provide? These problems do not provide the material for visionary speeches, yet they affect us on an immediate level more than the hope or reality of “national recognition.” After all, ants do not respect the reputation of any school.

There are also larger issues which our administration, for all their planning and thought about the future, have not addressed. It involves what I would call the Davidson tradition. For all the changes that have taken place, that heritage still lives with us. Some parts of it obviously needed to be changed. But there are other parts of the heritage which we might want to keep alive. Original research and new facilities may make an institution, but they do not create the intimacy and supportive environment which we have enjoyed.There are many more issues which need to be discussed. They should not be forgotten in our rush to build and create a “national reputation.” The tourists eventually go home.

THEY NEED NOBODY'S ROCK 'N ROLL
Monday, March 30, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN: Cloudt’s view.

The Davidsonian’s “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. We will print opinions on any subject of general interest we receive from the campus community. We adhere to the following guidelines:

- Any opinion should be in to us by 7 p.m. the Monday before publication, unless it is typed on IBM 5.25” diskette, in which case it is due 5 p.m. Tuesday.
- We accept first those opinions on IBM 5.25” diskette. Typed and legibly-written articles will be considered later.
- Opinions should be signed. We will only print unsigned ones if there is a compelling reason and the author is known to us (the editors).
- We will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. We will inform the author of substantial changes.
- Because of limited space, sometimes we are not able to print all opinions submitted in one issue. We reserve the right to select articles from those we receive for publication. First priority will go to those articles received on IBM 5.25” diskette. We will attempt to print any withheld article the following week.

—Letters policy—

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. We try to print all letters of general interest, but we will adhere to the following guidelines:

- The letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- The letters must be neatly typed or on IBM 5.25” diskette.
- The letters should be signed. You must have a compelling reason if you do not want your name printed with the letter.
- We reserve the right not to print letters which are advertisements, contain inside jokes or off-color slurs, or represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed on the same topic.

This issue is coming out on Monday due to a number of technical problems. All articles and headlines are printed on photographic paper, which must then be developed. We were out of the chemicals for the developer last Sunday and ordered a new shipment on Tuesday. The chemicals come from a firm in Winston-Salem, the same supplier for College Relations. Unfortunately, our shipment arrived on Friday morning. We apologize for the delay. The Davidsonian will be coming out next Friday and will resume its regular schedule.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsey Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, George Kurani, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, Ted Wilson.
Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Priscilla Faucette, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller.
Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins.
Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yaun.
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.
Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Lara Glenn, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.
Circulation Staff: Laura Dodenhoff, Emilie Sebesta.