10 From the mail Friday, December 11, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

“How many points for a field goal in the NFL?”

By CARTER GARRET and ROB GRZESZCZAK

The diversity of the world of sports was clearly exemplified this past holiday week by the many different games taking
place. The professional and college football seasons are winding down, as bowl pictures are taking shape. Basketball is back, as
the Lakers have come out charging in the NBA and the Tar Heels from Chapel Hill look strong in the
college sector. Hockey is also underway, believe it or not, and stuff like golf and tennis never ends. So what
does all this mean? It means that our desks have been inundated with letters concerning the vast world of sports.
Let’s take a look at some of these interesting questions submitted to us.

Q: “What has happened to the AFC East?” -Molly Cochran ’89, Athens, GA.

Good question, Molly. With Buffalo, Indianapolis, and the Jets on top of this ex-potent division, some experts can only grope
for an answer to this perplexing oddity. But we think we know what’s going on here, and it’s a little
deeper than some might believe. For starters, one of us (the one who lives in New Hampshire) recently wrote a
letter to Pete Rozelle, the Commissioner of the NFL. This letter went unanswered. In addition, our calls placed to Pete
Rozelle in the past week have gone ignored. So we put two and two together and discovered that the league
has conspired against the Dolphins and the Patriots, the perennial contenders, in favor of the perennial pretenders. There you have
it. Thanks, Molly.

Q: “In golf’s annual event known as ‘The Skins Game,’ what exactly are the ‘skins’?” -Jacques Vauclain ’90, Villanova, PA.

Well, Jacques, Webster tells us that skin is “the external, limiting layer of an animal body, especially when forming a
tough but flexible cover, relatively impermeable from without while intact.” Thanks for writing, Jacques, and don’t hesitate to do so
again.

Q: “Does the hockey season really have a beginning or an end?” -Reid Chisolm ’90, Asheboro, NC.

Witty question, Reid, but come on, of course it does. Although some think the NHL stands for “Never-ending Hockey League,”
they really do have an off-season, specifically from mid-June through September.

Q: “Whose house provided the setting for CBS’ Thanksgiving Day edition of ‘The NFL Today’?” -Jay, Houston, TX.

Ahh, Jay, we see that you too were deceived by CBS’ expertly constructed stage set that provided that “homey” look
for the holidays. Although it may have looked like a real house, it was just an artificial set. Did that
fireplace fool you?

Q: “Are there special rules governing the passing game in college’s Big Eight Conference?” -B. Switzer, Norman, OK.

This question brings up a touchy situation, as you might well know, B. Some experts believe that there is a
sort of unwritten “code of honor” among Big Eight coaches that...

BASKETBALL, from p. 9

...impressive 6-3 freshman guard, when he leaped halfway up the backboard, caught the ball with one hand, and jammed it
home on his way down. Over 6500 fans showed up to see the Davidson-Duke game in the Charlotte Coliseum on
Wednesday night, and they witnessed a basketball clinic by the Blue Devils. The Duke team was red-hot from the start,
using a swarming full-court pressure defense to force turnovers leading to easy fast-break baskets. By the end of the first
half, Duke had taken a 54-24 lead and subsequently removed the home fans from the game. The Duke defense forced
30 turnovers, leading to 14 steals and numerous fast-break layups.

Five Duke players scored in double digits, with Alaa Abdelnaby leading the way with 19, including 13 from the line,
Kevin Strickland 18, John Smith 18, Greg Koubek 13, and Danny Ferry 12. Quinn Snyder led Duke with 9 assists
and a surprising 2 blocked shots, and Koubek added a game-high 8 rebounds. Four Davidson players set in double digits,
with Maurice Gray scoring 17, Himes 14, Schmitt 10, and Edward “Magic” Gaines 10. For the second straight game, Rucker
did not score in double figures (only 8 points), and his 7 rebounds, 7 assists, and 2 steals were offset
by 11 turnovers. Coach Bobby Hussey noted that the bright spot in the mismatch was the play of sophomores Gray,
Gaines, and Schmitt. The Cats return to the Coliseum Saturday night in the annual Hornet’s Nest contest against UNC-C.

Submitted for your approval: bowl picks

By WHIT WILKS

Once again it’s that time of the year—time for being with family and friends to celebrate the holidays. For the
serious college football fan, it’s also time to be joyous, as over the next three weeks there will be no
less than 17 games to watch before, during, and after those delicious meals. So without any further adieu, here are
my picks for these contests, some of them being important and some of them only mattering to the schools involved.

California: San Jose St. in a rout over E. Michigan.

Independence: Washington goes into Tulane country and smothers The Green Wave.

All-American: Obviously a sentimental pick for this Native Wahoo, and thanks to the combination of Scott Secules and a weak
BYU secondary, I won’t be disappointed.

Sun: West Virginia played well down the stretch and led Syracuse with thirty seconds to play, but Oklahoma State’s only
losses were to Oklahoma and Nebraska, so look for a Cowboy win.

Aloha: UCLA feels it should be in the Rose Bowl and looks to take out its anger on Florida. Troy
Aikman’s day will be sunny as he picks apart a young Gator defense and Ken Norman will hold Emmitt Smith
under 100 yards.

Liberty: In Arkansas’ only tests of the season they were destroyed by Miami and soundly whipped by Texas A&M. Georgia’s
running game will slaughter the Hogs.

Holiday: Iowa simply has too much talent for Wyoming, the WAC champion.

Freedom: Arizona State tries to rebound after tying arch-rival Arizona. In an upset, Air Force’s wishbone shreds the Devil defense.

Gator: South Carolina faces LSU in what shapes up to be the second best of all the bowl matchups (the
Orange has to take top billing). The Bengal defense is SEC tough, but it won’t be able to adapt to
the rifle arm of Todd Ellis. Sterling Sharpe is certainly a first-round NFL pick for the Gamecocks.

Bluebonnet: Craig Heyward runs all over a small Texas defense to lead Pitt to victory.

Citrus: Sorry all you Tiger fans, but Rodney Williams has no chance against Joe Paterno’s Nittany Lions. Penn State beat
Miami last year and Williams is not half the quarterback Vinny Testaverde is.

Fiesta: Bobby Bowden regrets going for two now because he should be playing for the national title instead of against
Nebraska. FSU makes the most of it, though, and wins by seven.

Cotton: Heisman winner Tim Brown makes up for a lousy game against Miami, and the Irish whip A&M.

Sugar: Don McPherson shows he is head and shoulders above Jeff Burger, and the Orangemen wrap up an undefeated season
against Auburn.considers passing rude and out of line. We, however, tend to think that it’s an agricultural sort of thing,
and that playing exciting football out in that part of the country might upset the balance of their world. -Arthur
J. Hurt, III ’88

Q: “How many points are awarded for a field goal in the NFL?” -Chris Ruffner ’90, Hickory, NC

A: As writers of a halfway legitimate sports column, we inquire as to the seriousness of your question and also
wonder whether or not you’re a true sports fan. You sound like the type of guy who wears an Atlanta
Braves cap but changes the subject to the Hawks whenever the Braves get railed on. Three points for a field
goal, so good for you.

Rose: The Big Ten never wins in Pasadena, and this year will be no exception. Rodney Peete throws USC past
Michigan St. and Lorenzo White.

Hall of Fame: Alabama faces Michigan in a battle of two teams that really do not want to be here.
The Tide will roll.

Peach: Tennessee stops Indiana, and all Hoosiers turn to Assembly Hall for winter excitement.

Orange: THE BIG ONE - Oklahoma vs. Miami for the national championship. The Sooners manhandled a superb Nebraska team like
it was nothing, and the Canes struggled against the likes of Va. Tech and Toledo. This will be a great
game, but look for Barry Switzer to outcoach Jimmy Johnson (something that is not too hard to do) as the
Sooners get revenge for losses the past two years.

There you have it, my picks for the smorgasbord of games. I’m not The Greek, so don’t bet the house
on any of the matchups.

Text of Meetze’s statement concerning complex construction:

I realize that we have a few faculty members who are very critical of the location and planning for our
new parking lot adjacent to the Baker Sports Center. Their criticism is mainly directed as follows:

1. There was not enough information given to adjacent property owners, faculty, and other members of the college family concerning
the scope of the project prior to beginning construction;
2. Inadequate planning of the parking lot to save more trees;
3. Disregard of the environment.

Regarding the first item above, we were negligent in discussing the scope of this parking lot with individual property owners;
however, it was approved by their elected officials of the Town Board as the Architectural Appearance Committee approved the plans.
In fact, an earlier plan to open Thompson Street was revised because of concerns by Town Officials. Thompson Street was
not opened and the entrance on Woodland was modified to accommodate emergency vehicles. This week, we invited individual property owners
to review our plans. Five property owners met with us and we explained how the landscape architect will provide evergreen
screening, etc. Over the past five years, the faculty has had several opportunities to view the location of this parking
lot. Also, on several occasions, the faculty has been invited to presentations describing the Sports Complex project as well as
overall long-range planning. Parking has been planned for the area in question since 1969 when an outside consulting firm of
landscape architects and planners were paid $40,000 to develop a plan for the campus. For the past two years, all
new incoming faculty members have been given this slide presentation. During the dedication of the Sports Complex, architectural renderings were
shown indicating the landscaped appearance of the parking lot.

Criticism stating that we have not had enough professional planners working with us on this project is not justified. We
have had many professional planners working with us on this project and their fees are a substantial part of the
overall cost. The fact that this planning is not agreeable to those so vocal in their criticism should not suggest
that we have gone without professional advice. The suggestion that we have not considered the environment in our planning is
without foundation. All plans have been inspected and approved by government authorities concerned with all environmental protection factors and the
list is considerable.

Among the factors influencing our decision to locate this parking lot as an extension of Woodland Road are the following:
(A) Aesthetics, (B) Location as this space relates to various campus functions, (C) Long-range planning for future buildings, etc., (D)
Topography, (E) Cost. From the standpoint of aesthetics, it was not possible to incorporate many existing trees in the parking
layout because of the topography. The middle of the area is approximately 35 feet lower than the boundary. This means
that to use this area as a parking lot we would either have to cut trees or fill around their
roots; in either case, they would die. Because of this, we decided to properly drain the area, fill with good
topsoil, and then relandscape with perimeter screening and new trees within islands in the parking lot.

As we attempt to plan for the best learning environment, it is our intention to keep parking, when possible, on
the perimeter of the campus. The location of this parking lot meets this criterion. It is near main campus activities,
satisfying the needs of many faculty members and administrators who often complain of too few parking spaces. In this location,
it can serve parking for spectator events as well as day-to-day parking for students, faculty, and staff. From the standpoint
of long-range planning, we have also considered the proximity of this parking lot for future buildings. We have already mentioned
topography in discussing aesthetics and it was also necessary for us to consider topography in determining the best use of
this area because of erosion, unstable soil, and other factors making it an undesirable building site.

Criticism has also suggested that we have been unwilling to pay the cost of proper landscaping to save more trees.
Cost has always been a necessary consideration in all decisions for this project for two very important reasons. First, it
was necessary to reduce the total project cost by $1,000,000 before approval was given for this project. Second, an immediate
cash flow problem with fundraising necessitated borrowing funds in order to ensure that this project could be started and completed
before September 1989. Cost, therefore, will remain a great influence as we attempt to keep debt service as low as
possible. We have, therefore, carefully considered the parking lot as well as other aspects of this project from a cost
standpoint and will continue to do so. This does not mean that we have sacrificed a good landscape plan for
this area.

We welcome criticism as a catalyst to ensure the positive outcome of every project; however, we do feel that there
are some facts about planning for our Sports Complex that should be known as the tone of criticism is developed.
Efforts are being made to inform all residents in the area about what to further expect as the project develops.
A special invitation is given to any faculty member, student, or anyone in the college family to stop by my
office and discuss the progress of the Baker Sports Complex.

Grover Meetze
Director of Facilities Planning
