2

SGA Election Results
Freshman Senators:

Ingrid Love (Class President)

Meredith Gooding

Rachel Nation

Peter Bynum

Gilbert Shaw

Derrick Willard

House Senators:
William Wahiheim — Kappa Alpha
Ken Jones — PAX
Harrison Murray — Sigma Alpha Epsilon
BSC — Tim Poston
Kappa Sigma — Robert Smalley
Andy Tysinger — Pi Kappa Alpha
Mike Howard — Phi Delta Theta
Dave Petranick — Phi Gamma Delta
Caryn Coppedge — Rusk
Stephanie Wyatt — Spencer
Rob Grzeszczak — Sigma Phi Epsilon
Caroline Buxton — Warner Hall

Independent Senators:
Tripp Helms
John Maynard
Matt Terrell

Senior Honor Council:
Clara Broniec

Here is an updated list of night use of classrooms:
Chambers 208
Chambers 210

WE HAVE CLIFF NOTES

Cliffs Notes answer your questions about literature as you study and review. Each is designed to help improve your grades
and save you time.

Come in and see our Cliffs Notes display.

Chambers night rooms:
Chambers 211
Chambers 213
Chambers 215

All these rooms will be open for studying every night until 2:00 a.m.

International Fair

Tomorrow, the International Committee presents the third annual International Festival here on campus. The festival has expanded compared to previous
years’ fare. While the first festival had only tables in the 900 Room and the second only eleven booths representing
eleven countries outside on Chambers lawn, this year’s festival will have seventeen countries represented. Each booth will present native costumes,
artifacts, maps, and posters. They will be manned by students from the country represented who are available to answer questions
about their country. The booths will be serving ethnic food, free for the tasting. In addition, the festival will present
live entertainment: two of the groups slated to come are an African group, called the “Culture Bearers,” and an Indian
folk dance troupe. For kids of all ages, there will be game stalls, including a giant earthball which will be
rolled about.

The countries represented are India, Nepal, Pakistan, China, Japan, Sri Lanka, Ethiopia, Spain, France, Germany, Sweden, Liberia, Mexico, Greece, Zambia,
Turkey, and Norway. The Commons will be catering an international banquet in the evening.

The festival will be from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Chambers lawn. In case of rain, the location will
be the Union. All festival activities are free except for the meal at the Commons.

Material contributed by Aaron Levine

CROP Walk

Last Sunday, 129 students and professors joined members of the Davidson community to participate in the CROP walk. The route
was 10 kilometers long and went through the entire Davidson community. Water stops were provided along the way for thirsty
participants.

The CROP disco held at PAX the night before the walk raised $101. The total amount of funds raised by
the walk itself will not be tabulated until October 9, though. According to CROP coordinator for the YSSC, Linda Tatsapaugh
’88, “All in all it was a good walk.”

CROP is part of the Church World Service and initiates projects in the United States and abroad to aid poverty-stricken
people. CROP activities, such as the CROP walk, focus on hunger issues.

Material contributed by Rachel Nation

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. The editors will try to print all letters dealing with subjects of general
interest to the campus community, but they must adhere to the following guidelines:

All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected publication date.

Letters must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept letters submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SSI
WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS (MS-DOS) text file format.

Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names to be printed with their
letters.

The editors reserve the right not to print letters which contain inside jokes, off-color slurs, or advertisements, or which represent
a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.

Writers should include an address and a phone number with their submissions.

Writers should address their letters to:

Letters Policy
Friday, October 2, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SVILLAGE TRAVEL

TRAVEL AGENTS TAKE THE WORRY OUT OF TRAVEL! AND IT DOESN'T COST YOU A PENNY!

Reservations For:
Cruises
Airline
Tours
Amtrak
Hotels
Car Rentals

FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE

704/892-9020

SOUTH MAIN ST. - DAVIDSON (Behind Frame Gallery)

Downtown Davidson

MON—THURS.: 9-5
Fri. 9-6

Available at:
Main Street Books
Davidson
704-892-6841
