Wednesday, January 28, 1987  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Winter Workshop Theater begins new season

By LUCIA KENDALL

The one-act plays “Present Tense” and “Mr. Flannery’s Ocean” were presented “in-the-round” in the back of Hodson Hall Jan. 29 and 30.

“Present Tense,” directed by junior Lee Eichelberger, is a teenage comedy. It deals with the adolescent insecurities of Norm, played by freshman Gates Grainger, about his pretty, but somewhat bubble-headed girlfriend, Ann, played by senior Catherine Norton.

His worries are compounded by senior Randy Ingram in the role of the conceited jock, Doug, who is Ann’s former boyfriend. Sophomore Lowell Keller, as Jerry, Norm’s best friend, plays on his fears and further complicates his situation by setting him up on a double date with two junior college girls, played by sophomore Marisa Gaba and freshman Molly Bass. Of course, right before the prom, the story is resolved with Norm’s realization that Ann does love him after all.

“Mr. Flannery’s Ocean” is a charming drama directed by senior Allison Rose. It centers around Jim Flannery, an old crotchety Irishman played by senior Wayne Magruder, who insists that he owns the ocean, and gives permission to children (freshman Leigh Hall and sophomore Reese Boyd) who want to play in it.

Sophomore Donna Peters, in the role of the exasperated maid Maug, adds comic relief. Mrs. Klapington, played by sophomore Martha Johnston, runs the small beach resort that has attracted young newlyweds Mr. and Mrs. Morrison, acted by sophomores Jim Dillon and Julie Zimmerman, for their honeymoon.

The appearance of senior Noel Brewster as Mrs. Pringle, a dying old woman, changes Mr. Flannery’s attitude about life to the point where he gives her his most beloved possession and favorite companion, his ocean. The actors and actresses carried off their foreign accents with surprising success. Magruder and Brewster also achieved a very convincing look of age.

Two more one-act plays — “The Dutchman” and “Wild Roses” — will be given tomorrow and Friday nights starting at 7 p.m.

---

It's Midwinters this weekend —

MUCH, MUCH LATER...

What should we do? Let's get drunk!

But we do that incredibly every weekend!

Well, this is pretty damning — drunken crowds, loud music...

But as Susan & Jennifer step out...

D'SON STUDENTS (UNDER 21)

Eating house will have to go on probation...

Spend the rest of your natural lives in prison.

Well, girls, I'm afraid your...

Geez, what a buzz-killer.

We allowed the and niet...

But, Dean Vstato Yead, why ofa...

40 drink inside...

Just policy, girls. Remember: it’s ok to break the law — just don’t get caught.

AND SUDDENLY...

YES. THINGS LOOKED GRIM. NOTHING SHORT OF DIVINE INTERVENTION COULD SALVAGE THIS PLOTLINE.

INDEED!

Well, girls, since the Pope has absolved you of your sins, I guess you're free to go.

Boy, must the slop.

Sure is.