Monday, September 21, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

A history of Davidson radio
From carrier-current to powerhouse
By JON BOLES

Recent changes in the programming schedule of WDAV have led to protests on the part of students, who see the
station as “something of their own” and claim that the administration’s decision to change to an all-classical format is another
step in a long progression designed to take WDAV from the students. Is this a valid charge? After taking a
look back at the history of the station, it would appear so.

WDAV first appeared on the scene in 1969 as a carrier-current station, which means that students received it on AM
radio by plugging their radios into AC outlets. Students conceived and ran the entire operation. In the spring of 1973,
the FCC granted WDAV a construction permit allowing the students to buy the equipment for and to build a ten-watt
FM station. At the time, North Mecklenburg County had no radio station. The crossover from AM to FM led to
a reevaluation and broadening of the station’s purpose. A member of WDAV’s staff commented, “the station’s primary purpose has been
to provide a music service to the students... [in the future we] will have increased responsibilities to the law and
to our community,” such as providing more news.

One aspect of these changes was an alteration in the format of the station. Morning programming was planned to consist
of one-hour shows featuring top 40 singles, while the station’s progressive rock show, “Radio Free Davidson,” would be moved to
the late evening 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. time slot. In September 1973, WDAV went on the air for the
first time with a broadcast power of ten watts, finally becoming a “real radio station.” The station was student-operated and
programmed and featured rock, jazz, and classical music and news.

In June 1976, students first received their “DAV” in stereo FM amid talk of expanding the station. This expansion became
a reality with the approval of the trustees in February 1977. Controversy arose, however, about a condition placed on that
expansion, that the station must further alter its format to provide primarily classical programming. Furthermore, in order to receive the
additional funding necessary for the boost in output, the college administration must be “assured of maintaining overall control of the
station at all times.” The board of directors of WDAV, a committee composed of students, faculty, and administrators, released a
statement of purpose the following April. This statement expressed an interest in having “a variety of programs in keeping with
the standards of good taste and a college’s duty to raise the cultural level of its community.”

In the summer of 1977, the college hired Don Lovell as executive director of WDAV, the first professional employee hired
specifically to work with the station. The following autumn, Lovell proposed a programming schedule which included ten hours of classical
music a day. The student staff responded to this by initiating its own change to a format of from 4
to 6 hours of classical programming a day. In their final approval of WDAV’s upgrade to 18,000 watts at the
end of October, the Trustees included the condition that, because of the public relations impact of the station, it would
be a necessity that WDAV’s “programming be closely and continuously supervised by the college administration.”

In the spring of 1978, the Board of Directors endorsed a schedule providing for 50% of all programmed music —
not of total airtime — to be classical. Soon after programming began on May 1st, Director of Communications Martha Roberts
released a statement calling for a balance of programming to match the diversity of tastes and interests present among the
listening audience. During the summer of 1978, President Samuel R. Spencer decreed that 50% of all airtime had to consist
of classical music. (The difference between “programmed music” and “total airtime” is the time taken up by news and talk
shows — which, comprising perhaps ten minutes per hour of a nineteen-hour broadcasting day, would be equivalent to about a
ten percent increase in total time devoted to classical music.)

All this led to much more controversy, which came to a head as a result of the Trustees’ decision to
take the station away from the students and professionalize it. Lex Alexander, a student working with WDAV at the time
who later...went on to work in radio in Charlotte, commented, “I don’t think I can overestimate for you just how
much that [angered the students] . . . without the work that had been done for free by the students
between 1973 and 1978 there would never have been a high-powered WDAV. For that reason a lot of students felt
that the college was ripping them off.” Executive Director Don Lovell offered his perspective of the matter in the September
15, 1978 issue of The Davidsonian: “It has always been the college’s station... the thing I think that all implies
is that I think we are just beginning to realize that this is big. The station is a business.”

In winter 1986, WDAV moved from its home of long-standing in the basement of the Grey Student Union into the
new McMillan building, a move coinciding with an application for an increase in broadcasting power to 100,000 watts. This was
the first upgrade since the increase from ten to 18,000 watts in 1978. On May 5, 1987, Station Manager John
Clark commented about the need to take “Flipsides,” WDAV’s remaining alternative music program, off the air: “The long-term plans are
to make WDAV the best classical music and arts station in the southeast. ‘Flipsides’ is not compatible with those challenging
plans. As a format, it just does not fit.”

This short history of WDAV shows that the perspectives of the administration on the role of the station in the
community—and of student activity at the station—have changed a great deal since its founding in 1969. With John Griffith’s September
10th decision to cancel “Flipsides,” it was assured that student participation in WDAV would not die out—an interesting hope in
light of the fact that, as Lex Alexander commented, “in the fall of 1978 WDAV was the largest extracurricular activity
on campus except for IMAC and the football team—it involved upwards of fifty people.” Today students involved number just seventeen
people.

The staff recommendation for cancellation went to the Vice-President for Institutional Advancement, Dr. John Griffith, who in turn spent the
summer trying to determine what the program was really like. He began listening to the program, communicating by mail with
listeners who had signed petitions in support of “Flipsides,” and speaking to faculty members and “Flipsides” announcers. Griffith finally made
what he called “a tough decision” and announced it at a meeting with the two remaining announcers, Lee Eichelberger and
Frank Lord, last Thursday.

At the heart of the controversy over “Flipsides” lies a conflict of opinion regarding student participation at WDAV. Both Clark
and Griffith feel that the cancellation of “Flipsides” will indirectly improve students’ levels of participation as well as the merit
of that participation in terms of future employment opportunities. With the cancellation of the program, they explain, the station will
be able to make further strides toward its long-term goal of becoming the finest classical station in the southeast. Thus,
students who work for WDAV will be supervised by classically trained announcers at a well-respected station, providing a springboard to
radio employment.

Supporters of “Flipsides,” however, claim that the death of the program signals the end of all “meaningful” participation by students,
who are now fettered by formats, pre-written playlists, and professionals. In addition, they feel hurt that their petition, which had
“around 1500 signatures” according to Eichelberger, was not considered by Griffith in making his final decision. According to senior Tom
Gattiker, supporters of “Flipsides” feel that the recent decision is “just another example of the Trustees’ disregard for the students’
interests.” Added Chuck Crews, “They [the Trustees] don’t have the right to [cancel] it. It makes me mad because the
station used to belong to the students. Now there’s nothing else like it to listen to.”

Feeling creative? Feeling brilliant? Feeling hopelessly imprisoned by the oppressive limitations of everyday material existence? Tell the world about it!
Inside Art, the literary and photo art section of The Davidsonian, is seeking your contributions—drawings, poetry, fiction, photos. Items selected
from among those contributed will be printed in the next Inside Art section. For information contact Jim Dillon at -6612.

October 2nd
Frozen Yogurt & Tofutti Sandwiches To Go
Imported Beer - Wines - Cheeses - Coffees - N.C. Pottery - Gift Baskets
Check our daily specials
128 S. Main St.
704 / 892 - 7521
