Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Friday, April 24, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

5

THREE THOUGHTS FROM WINDY GAP
EDITORIAL:

Somewhere along the line there is a strange correlation between psychological tension and creative output. I am not only basing
this on my personal experience but also judging by the enormous amount of submissions I have received from the readers
lately, despite the academic stress increasing as the term enters its final phase.

This time we have the concluding part of the short story “In The Beginning” which was published in the last
issue. In the next couple of issues we’ll have the winning entries of the Vereen Bell, Charles Lloyd, and Windley
Hall writing contests this year.

Again, eagerly looking forward to your submissions for the coming issues!

Yours truly,
SUDEEP SEN
Inside Art Editor

I sit upon a grassy hill.
Knowing the presence of something
Beyond even the mountains which
Rise in rows before me.

I may leave the mountains,
This hilltop where I reach out in
Broad embrace,
But the flowing wind that surrounds
And fills me,
Remains.

II.

Black and yellow
Against the mute sand,
Where lively water
Flows by
Bouncing among the stones,
Thirteen butterflies float.

They drift like Fall leaves
In spring thaw,
Unshrouded from
Silk cocoons.

They feed by the
Flowing spring water.

III.

Cool breezes flow from
The valley, and
Ruffle the pages
Of my book.

At once,
Mere words are swept from
Smooth pages and
Up into the mountains.
They settle gently,
Fresh petals
On a twisted dogwood.

ON KEATS

He saw
Fragments of
Ancient lovers in
Stone,
Once alive.
We suppose.
Or was it life.
They succumbed
To eternity,
Lost in the
Pieces of tomorrow
That future generations
View with admiration.

What a liar I am; I'm obsessed by that view with admiration. Laura offered me something that I couldn’t accept.
That is something that I have never understood. Years later, something that I think will probably never change. I light
candles everywhere. The light was eerie, shadows were constantly dancing around me. The shadows of things that had died, or
could never live. They had a strange and struggling life, a trapped life that burst out in brief and hidden
moments. When the shadow tears itself from the coat and runs to the light of freedom. The coat hangs, paralyzed,
on the hook.

Other things dance in their own shadows after death. Those were the things I was seeing, the things that I
will never be able to banish from memory. Whirling around me in a mad celebration of freedom, laughing at the
shells they had left behind. I could only watch. Laura offered me some sort of freedom that I didn’t understand.
I think I had no shadow; I’m not sure right now why it was that I was watching, why I
still hold the firm conviction that I could not have joined in. I was outside, somewhere. Away, intensely separated.

Now I light candles mostly for memory. It is the ugly things that we remember best, because they are the
things that shape us and make us whole. Laura was beautiful. I see her face in the flame.

And equally lifeless
Joy.

Admiring rock
As love,
Wistfully pondering
How it used to be, When all it was,
Is, now,
And now
Is just a
Stone fragment
Of a life once lived,
Now lived,
Never lived.

JOHN DAVID RAMSEY ’87

---
