The Dave Leiterman, Mary Beaty, Coach Slagle, Gardner Ligo, Curtis Brandon, Ruth Ault, Herb Jackson, Susan Keefe, Lee Brown, Minnie
Junkin, Randy Nelson

Psychics reveal predictions for future

Davidson College will go through many changes in the next year, ten psychics report. They have tapped into the soul
of the college and determined, using their extra-sensory powers, that the Davidson we all know and love will be changed
forever. Here’s what they have to say:

- Elvis will arrive via flying saucer to give his first live performance since his tragic death a decade ago.
To be held in the 900 Room, his performance will be shrouded in emotion and many young coeds will want
to join him in his new life on Jupiter. Priscilla will be full of rage because he will not have
told her that he was coming back to give this one-time-only show.

- Shirley MacLaine will die and take over the body of college president John Kuykendall, unbeknownst to everyone. When the
discovery will be made, Missy Kuykendall will say, “He has been acting strange lately... he wants to pick up ballet
and he has had an unusual interest in Jack Nicholson.”

- Bob Walton will take over as Dean of Admissions in July after finally resigning from his position of Mecklenburg
County commissioner. When interviewed, he will say, “We’re looking for a few good young men... I mean people.” Admissions Office
members will be interviewed and one will say, “I just can’t wait to see what’s in his briefcase!”

- Dining Service Director Carleton Pritchard will discover the cure to AIDS. He will stumble across the cure while concocting
a new dish to serve in the Commons. He will still plan to serve the meal, saying, “Who knows, maybe
it will cure someone, what with the Gay Support Group and all.”

- Seven-Eleven will reopen due to popular demand and outcries for better convenience store service. Activist Rich Link will spearhead
the movement to bring back the Seven-Eleven, tagged the “Freedom of Choice Movement.” “We wanted to bring back the Big
Gulp and our good friend Bill (the manager),” Link said.

- Chaplain Charlie Summers will hold a service in which he will follow the lead of a Unitarian minister in
upstate New York, handing out condoms to parishioners. He will say, “We have an obligation to promote safe sex to
stop the spread of AIDS. We consider ourselves to be academic leaders, so why can’t we be moral leaders also?”

- Dean Will Terry will become a fire-and-brimstone TV preacher in the Jim Bakker mode. However, he will promise not
to say that he will die if he does not get $4.5 million. “I want to make people get closer
to the maker, dammit.”

So here are the predictions. If you don’t like them, too bad, because they’re all coming true. Make your plans
now. Consider yourself forewarned.

Activist Rich Link gets the last Big Gulp at 7-11. But he knows that they'll be back.

Freshman ban extended to 15 weeks

Dean Terry shows his clean hands

By NEIN T. VON KLAUS

Davidson’s newest council, the FCC (Freshman Concerns Council) met last Friday to propose even newer ways to deal with incoming
freshmen and the new alcohol laws. Dean of students Will Terry was heard to have said, “The class of 1990
was only the beginning.”

The council was formed to follow upon some problems that still exist on campus. Most people seem to believe that
the problems are greatest in the freshman class, as they have not yet matured enough to deal with their newfound
freedom.

The members of the FCC include: Terry and his “Deannettes,” Paula Miller and Harriet Root, Dean of Admissions Jim P.
Hendrix, Director of Residence Life (trans: Housing),Thomas W. Jennings, Jr., Missy Kuykendall and her husband John, Chief of Security Jackie
Hughes, Commons Dining Manager Carleton Pritchard, Union Director William Brown, and three seniors selected by the Dean of Students Office
on the basis of their relative impartiality because they’re leaving soon and “don’t really care about next year’s freshman class,
so they'll be less likely to cause a big fuss about any ‘controversial’ matters that might come up.” (It was
noted that Christopher B. “Kit” Morris was appointed by the Dean of Students Office to be a member of the
committee. He was not able to attend because he was “working on a big plan for the Athletic Department” as
he stated Thursday.)

The council broke down, according to zodiac sign, into various sub-committees to debate new ways to “enhance” the Davidson Freshman
Experience. The general consensus was, “Yeah, sure this year’s Freshman class is doing okay, but okay just doesn’t cut it
here at Davidson. We want real good,” revealed Missy’s husband, John. Their goals were to get the incoming class “so
wound up in themselves that they don’t even realize there are upperclassmen here;” to make alcohol something that’s “swilled only
on faculty retreats;” and to “raise academic averages so high that USA Today writes a whole article about how smart
Davidson students are.”

The sub-committees debated for several minutes before coming up with a unilaterally acceptable proposal: a 15-week segregation of freshmen and
Patterson Court. “Five weeks just ain’t enough,” said Terry. An interesting proposal came from Hughes: starting a Davidson Bureau of
Investigation (DBI) to curb vandalism on freshmen halls. “It would be really neat,” he gesticulated excitedly. “The ‘D-men’ would get
to wear trench coats with the collars up and those reflecting sunglasses, so no one would know for sure what
they were looking at. Of course, they’d be undercover so they’d have to wear really sharp Italian designer suits in
mauve and melba and they’d have to carry around ID cards with badges that they could flash whenever they wanted
any information from anyone. They'd monitor all activity in the freshman halls with new tracking systems. The Cushmans would have
to go, though. No one would take the D-men seriously if they rode around in Cushmans.”

Jennings said the idea was “interesting,” but was concerned by the fact that suit attire required ties. “I think that
would be an unfair mandate.” When asked “Why?” he replied, “No comment.” Terry and the Deannette sub-committee thought that the
idea “has possibilities, but at the present time our office is quite capable of handling any problems on the freshmen
halls.” The proposal for D-men was voted down. “It’s just too extreme,” commented Missy. “These kids are all pretty good.
They’re still just adjusting to college life.”

Finally, Brown and Pritchard both brought to the council’s attention the fact that “someone will have to do something with
the freshmen. We can’t just let them hang out in the Commons and the Union all the time.” Terry moved
the majority of the responsibility fall on the hall counselors’ shoulders. “After all, there are 82 sophomores applying: Why not
have some applicants that don’t make it form the Freshman Fun Committee (FFC) to help out?” Everyone loved this idea.
“Nothing like having a committee in charge of campus activities,” agreed Brown.

Monday, the FCC presented its 15-week proposal to the administration and faculty for a vote. It passed by a landslide.
The proposal then went to the Trustee board at their monthly meeting Wednesday. It stopped there, however. The board felt
unsure about passing any policy too quickly. All debate was postponed until late May. “We’ll have a better feel of
the situation then,” stated Chairman Ben T. Craig.
