Friday, January 9, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN 3

Lecturer traces world situation after World War I
By DAVID WILLIAMS

The first and second world wars “are the two giant mountain ranges that dominate the historical landscape of the twentieth
century,” author John Lukacs said in a speech sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program Tuesday night before an overflow crowd
in the 900 Room. He added, “We still live in the shadow of these wars. Forty-two years have passed since
the end of World War II, and the essential elements of the world situation have not changed very much.”

Lukacs noted that the decline of European domination of world affairs began in World War I and was accelerated by
the end of World War II. He said the year 1945 signifies “the end of a European balance of power,
which lasted for four or five hundred years when the main events, not only of European but also of world
history, were marked by the relationships, whether in peace or in war, of the European powers themselves.”

Lukacs said that world history during the period between the first and second world wars is marked by a “triangular
relationship” between the forces of parliamentary democracy, communism, and fascism. “In this triangle, fascism was the strongest force,” he said.
Fascism was “the new force of the radical right, which first became incarnated in a number of European countries, including
Italy, but which had its most powerful incarnation in Germany in 1933.”

Lukacs noted that only after the end of World War II, when fascism was virtually destroyed, did the dual rivalry
between capitalism and communism really begin. When Adolph Hitler attempted to conquer Europe during World War II, “The Americans and
British combined could not have defeated Germany. For this, they needed the Russians,” Lukacs said. “Our world situation today is
a result of this,” he said. He observed that “when the Soviet Union arose as one of the great victors
of the war,” it was almost inevitable that the Soviets would claim the right to “swallow a fair amount of
Europe and try to incorporate it in one way or another in its domains.”

Lukacs pointed out that the communist regimes established in eastern Europe after World War II came to power “not because
of the popularity of communism,” but because the “Russian armies occupied them and pretty much installed their supporters in millions
and thousands.” If Yugoslavia, Hungary, or Czechoslovakia had been occupied by Anglo-American forces at the end of the war, “their
development would have been similar to Austria and West Germany,” he said. “This in itself indicates that communism already in
1945 was not such a dynamic force as many people saw it at the time.”

In the world today, he said, “Marxism has lost its intellectual appeal. It is happening all over Europe [that] Marxists
are recognizing that communism is not so good after all.” Lukacs also observed that despite a 42-year period of rapid
changes and advancements in technology and communication since 1945, “nationalism, national character, nationality, national consciousness, and the national mind are
still the predominant elements in the history of the twentieth century.” He said that although forces such as communism theoretically
should have a worldwide orientation, “there is no such thing in the world today as international communism. There are only
different national communisms and national socialisms. There is Russian communism, Chinese communism, Angolan communism, Albanian communism, Hungarian communism, and they
are becoming more and more different.”

He added: “The entire world really shows the triumph of socialism because there is not one government in the world
from Tibet to Chile that to some extent is not a welfare state.” He said these welfare states “accentuate their
particularly national characteristics. The American welfare state is different from the French welfare state. The Irish welfare state is different
from the British welfare state.”

Lukacs emphasized that “we have nationalism and socialism, not international communism and capitalism, which continue to be the main elements
in the political configuration of the twentieth century, even now, 40 years after the second world war.” He said: “Sometimes
I think in the United States itself perhaps this is the way we may explain the odd structure of our
party system to the Europeans. We have the Democrats, who often are more socialistic than nationalistic, and we have the
Republicans, who are often more nationalistic than socialistic.”

Lukacs, a native of Hungary and professor of history at Chestnut Hill College in Philadelphia, has authored more than a
dozen books on issues of contemporary historical interest.

N. Carolina proved competitive for Davidsonians
By TOM MOORE

Even though no Davidson students made it beyond the state level this year in Rhodes Scholarship competition, English instructor and
Rhodes interviewer Hoke Perkins is pleased with the candidates. “Davidson sent out perhaps its best group of candidates this year.
They were marvelous. That no one got beyond the state level is purely a function of the competition this year.

“Davidson is the sort of institution that will keep having good luck with Rhodes Scholarships. The quality of the interviewees
at the state level was very good this year — probably the best ever. We can only send four people
along to the district interviews, though.” Perkins, a 1977 Rhodes scholar, served for the first time this year on the
state and district selection.committees. Five Davidson students were nominated this year: Kathleen Micham ‘87, Melissa Jones ’86, Gordon Watkins ’87,
Dan Murrey ’87, and Mark Sandy ’87. Watkins and Sandy were interviewed in Virginia, Murrey in Tennessee, and Micham and
Jones in North Carolina. Under the rules, selected students from each state then vie for the scholarships at the regional
level. Four students are then selected from each district (usually made up of six states: North Carolina is in with
Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Tennessee). Another 40 Rhodes scholars are picked from around the world. The scholarship covers
two years’ education at Oxford University in London.

“The Atlanta committee has a reputation for being one of the more rigorous,” Perkins said. “People who go to Harvard
and other New England universities who are from North Carolina tend to come back here to compete, which makes North
Carolina’s competition very rigorous. North Carolina has a high concentration of academics. People who live in Idaho should go back
home to compete. Coming back to North Carolina doesn’t help you much. Only one out of the four this year
was from a college outside of the area (Columbia University),” Perkins said. “The others were from Duke, Wake Forest, and
the University of Tennessee/Chattanooga. I know that of the competition, students can choose to compete in either their home state
or the state in which they go to school. The two in Illinois, for example, there were two awarded and
both students went to Yale. The colleges and universities in this area hold their own.”

Perkins found the interview process both interesting and stressful. “I slept better when I went through them as a participant
than when I was on the selection committee. It was nerve-racking for us. I got a file of about 32
applications ten days before the state interviews. We had a round-robin of votes to see who we were going to
interview. I thought that the state interviews were more pleasant (than the district interviews); they’re designed to bring out the
best in the candidates. At the cocktail party the night before, they can show you their best. The next day,
all day, we hold the interviews. They last 20 to 25 minutes. One of the hallmarks of the Rhodes interviews
is that you find out right away whether you got it or not. We ask them to come back two
to three hours later while the decision is being made. We keep them together so that they can get to
know each other — and be nervous together,” he said.

“The district interviews were much more rigorous. The format was the same, but everyone was more nervous because it is
the final step in the process,” Perkins said. “They’re given the time and the opportunity to tell what they know
about their area, and then they're subjected to a barrage of questions on any topic. We can only choose four
of the 12 candidates. It’s an exhilarating experience; it’s good to get to know each other, but it can also
be disappointing as well. I was lucky enough to get my name called, but not everyone was. I think that
knowing right away is a strength, though others may feel it is too much pressure and a disadvantage,” he said.

Perkins found several aspects of the decision process encouraging. “In the last twenty years, there has been a marked decrease
in those who wanted to teach. It was heartening this year to see an interest in teaching. I think it’s
because a lot of universities are now hiring professors who got their doctorates in the '60s and '70s, and they’re
inspiring students with the ethic of the '60s and '70s, directing them toward lives not driven by the search for
money. It’s good to see research being done in humanities at Oxford.”

Perkins also found the competition rather intimidating. “If you looked at the GPAs of Rhodes Scholars 10 or 15 years
ago, you wouldn’t find as many 4.0s. The norm this year was probably over a 3.9. It’s very daunting; you
have to choose, and everyone there could easily be a Rhodes Scholar.”

Perkins felt honored to be selected for the district interviews. “Interviewers are chosen by the American secretary; they run the
whole show. They like to have a mixture of ages, and I think I was supposed to bring new blood
into the committee because I was the youngest one there. I was very surprised to be chosen to go to
the district interviews. Usually, it is the secretary of each state that goes, but North Carolina rotates every year. Each
of the other members on the state committee had already served, so it was my turn, even though it was
my first year as a state interviewer. These (on the district committee) are older, very distinguished-looking men — I thought
it might be hard to break into the group, but they were actually very friendly.”

Perkins won his Rhodes while a student at the University of Alabama in 1977. He received his B.A. in English
from Oxford’s Oriel College and is now working on his dissertation on William Faulkner at the University of Virginia.

Sandwiches & Drinks
Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.
“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!”
892-9046
25% OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS
