BRYANT

To us who have watched the development of sports television, particularly with the advent of cable television early in this decade, ESPN remains a staple. Even after its debacles like the USFL and the MISL, the network has bounced back with even more profitable packages, such as the Sunday night broadcasts airing this fall with Gail Gardner and Roy Firestone. Amongst this turmoil, a standard ESPN product is the periodic wrap-up of daily sports events, the ever-present ESPN Sports Center. Since its inception, Chris Berman has been the veteran and, arguably, the most vital member of the Sports Center staff.

Berman’s talents range widely as a sports broadcaster. He has covered countless U.S. Opens in both tennis and golf, NFL Playoffs, boxing, and other events. However, Berman is first and foremost a sports desk reporter. In this facet, he has no peer. Berman puts life into sports that normally bore the dedicated fan. After all, broadcasts at 11:30 and 2:00 at night require the announcer to keep the audience (what little there is at that hour) awake. He recounts tales of the Major Indoor Soccer League (MISL) with such vigor that soccer haters like myself are even interested. However, just as he excels as a sports reporter, his tales invariably lead him to excel in one sport’s reports. That is, without a doubt, Major League Baseball.

In 1981, the strike year in baseball, there was definitely something missing in life. Not only was our national pastime in jeopardy, but Chris Berman was as well. How discouraging it was to watch him struggle through accounts of the International League, the American Association, and the Pacific Coast League. Although these leagues are definitely viable baseball producers, they are just not of the same level as “The Boomer,” Chris Berman. As I ran outside my house to announce to my brother that the strike was finally over, I think I relished more in the thought that Chris Berman would again provide his provocative comments to the National and American Leagues than in the fact that these leagues would resume play.

You ask, “Why this fascination with a sports announcer and baseball?” First of all, Chris Berman loves baseball. It’s obvious just by watching him that he grew up with the game like many of us did. Secondly, for those who only attend 4 or 5 major league games a year, Berman brings the game to life. His classic expressions — “Mike Schmidt up in the seventh and ‘BOOOOOOM!’”, “Back goes Winfield: BACK, BACK, BACK, BACK, BACK, GONE!” — and his enthusiasm in delivering them make the baseball world more exciting and bring it, by way of cable television, right into the home.

Finally, the “Boomerisms.” Berman has developed these catchy phrases, nicknames for major league players, during the course of his career. From the old guard, Jose “Can You See” Cruz and Verne “Golden” Ruhle, to the youngsters, Oddibe “Young Again” McDowell and Mel “Tammany” Hall, Berman constantly amazes the watcher/listener with his knowledge of music, movies, and the arts. Some that have mystified me include: Scott “Tellula” Bankhead — it turns out that Tellula Bankhead was a jazz singer in the 1940s — Rafael “Abraxas” Santana — “Abraxas” was the title of one of the rock group Santana’s albums — and Kirby “Union Gap” Puckett — the Union Gap is apparently a country/bluegrass group whose lead singer is Kirby Puckett.

As a fitting conclusion, I would like to propose my “All Boomer Team” for 1987. Catchers: Tony “Jalo” Pena of the Cards and Ron “Talla” Hassey of the Chisox; First Base: Manny “Kingston” Trillo of the Cubs (Yes, he’s played first); Second Base: Wally “Takin’ Care of Business” Backman of the Mets and Al “What, Me Worry” Newman of the Twins; Third Base: Ken “Good Evening, Mister” Phelps of the Mariners and Jim “Love Me Two Times” Morrison of the Pirates; Shortstop: the Giants’ Jose “Game-Winning” Uribe and the Indians’ Julio “Generalissimo” Franco; Outfield: Darryl “Please Come to” Boston of the Chisox, Oddibe “Young Again” McDowell of the Rangers, “Me and” Willie McGee of the Cards, and Tim “Purple” Raines of the Expos; Starting pitchers: Rick “Innocent” Lysander of the Twins, Mario “Scotch and” Soto of the Reds, Frank “101 Strings” Viola of the Twins, and the Twins’ Bert “Be Home” Blyleven; Relievers: Mike “Izod” LaCoss of the Giants and Tom “Ex” Hume of the Phillies.

Not to be outdone, I have compiled several “Boomerisms” for the Davidson baseball team. At third, there’s Dave “Like a” Turgeon; catching Dan “Simple” Simonds; second baseman Michael “Amsterdam” Holland; left fielder Brian “the Eel” Moure; center fielder Dave “Blue Demon” DePaul; infielder Joe “the Vacuum” Hoover; pitching David “Gatsby” Fitzgerald.

As you see, Chris Berman has had a profound, though perverted, impact on my career as a sports spectator. Two final suggestions I would like to make. First, with apologies to Dr. Martin and all the Eco professors, I would like the network to cancel “ESPN Business Week” which now occupies the time slot of the morning Sports Center. Secondly, with little apology, I would like to propose that MTV be outlawed in the Union TV lounge from 11:00 P.M. to midnight, particularly during baseball season, so we, the more sane elements of society, can enjoy the game.The campus can watch Sports Center and “The Boomer.” The lack of reason dominates sports controversies due to the simple fact that sports is based on emotion. Do thousands of adults yell, “Sick’em Dawgs, woof, woof” as Georgia kicks off between the hedges based on logical consideration of what they are doing? Does painting your face in the colors of your favorite team and holding your index finger in the air while screaming “We’re number one” exemplify mature behavior? Of course not.

The Southern Conference seemed the perfect haven for our Wildcats since our rivals, while being Division I, only had four or five times as many students as we did. In the Southern Conference, Davidson could pretend to be a big school and fans like me could cheer passionately for our classmates. The clock struck midnight when the Southern Conference began requiring all members to play a minimum number of conference football games to remain a member of the organization. Football occupies such a fond spot in American culture because football is the one sport where bigger is always better. The bigger the players, the bigger the roster, the bigger the coaching staff, the bigger the budget, the better chance a team has in football.

Davidson may be many different things to many different people, but Davidson is not big in terms of student body and athletic budgets. For this reason, the other Southern Conference schools, while not the biggest in the land, are so much bigger than Davidson that unless Davidson turns into an armed camp bent on the sole purpose of turning out gridiron gladiators and letting the slow, skinny guys go somewhere else, Davidson will always get beaten by its bigger rivals. As Davidson’s size makes it impossible to be competitive in football, it also hampers the other sports with insufficient financial resources. While the basketball team has scholarships to work with, the other coaches have to be miracle workers to be competitive on the Division I level. Although I would hope great soccer players would come pay full tuition and play for Coach Slagle because they want to come to Davidson, I also know Duke has full scholarships, a national-power reputation in the sport, and can give students a pretty good education to boot.

Davidson has had some successes on the Division I front over the past few years, but the year Davidson beat Duke in soccer, the team barely had a .500 record and came in third in the conference. Despite the unprecedented wealth of talent on the baseball team over the last three years, they have not placed higher than third in the conference. One NCAA Division I tournament appearance by all of Davidson’s teams combined over the last four years does not constitute success.

The problem comes down to one simple statement: Davidson likes to play like a big school on the athletic field while remaining a small school on the financial front. Davidson, mainly the Trustees, must decide if Davidson is a Division I school once and for all. If Davidson is a Division I school, all sports should be given budgets comparable to the basketball team, Davidson’s only Division I sport in terms of both competitiveness and finances. If Davidson cannot make such a commitment, then drop the teams to Division II or III and let the women’s tennis team win a few national championships.

The emotional fan in me wants more money. The fan knows players like Ace Tanner and Steve Condon won’t come to Davidson if it is not a Division I school. The fan likes big-time athletics and wants Davidson to participate in such a carnival. When the fan calms down, reason tells me we could hire more faculty, improve the lab facilities, or buy more books for the library with the money needed to make Davidson a Division I school. That money would make Davidson better able to fulfill its chief duty: to give students a superior education.

Although emotion and reason fail to agree on how big a sports school Davidson is, I do think the half-way approach of making Davidson teams play at Division I without Division I budgets is wrong and must stop immediately. Either we go all out at Division I, or we don’t go at all. Fueled by a slow deep breath, I side with reason.