Around the horn - Charlotte’s dubious sports image
By HAP BRYANT

On Sunday, two critical sports events took place, neither of which concerned “scab” football. The American and National League Championship
Series both reached critical points — the Twins, who have since won the pennant, led the Tigers two games to
one; the Giants and Cardinals were tied at two games each. I turned on the television at about 11:30 that
night, expecting to see a comprehensive wrap-up of the two games. Instead, what do I get? Two programs about the
Oakwood Homes 500 Nascar race.

Granted, to some people in this area, Nascar racing takes precedence. However, devoting one hour of air time to highlights
of crashes is something I find a little extreme. After all, who is awake at that hour except the hard-core
baseball fan, anxiously awaiting the results of the penultimate baseball series of the year? (You may say all hard-core baseball
fans would have watched the game, but a few had Lester midterms staring them in the face). It is in
fact October, prime time for baseball. Although hockey and basketball are cranking their seasons up, they realize that now they
will lose media coverage to the major league playoffs, just as baseball recognizes that the NBA playoffs and the Stanley
Cup playoffs will supersede its broadcasts in late May and early June.

However, in the midst of the drama of the playoffs, we see Morgan Shephard and Brett Bodine and Jeff Bodine
crashing as they enter turn 3 of the Charlotte Motor Speedway. We see Dale Earnhardt back his car up the
track, wheel it around like every person must do on his/her driver's test, and drive it into the pits. Has
anyone ever called Dale Earnhardt “Mr. October”? Give me a break.

Hopefully, when the NBA comes to Charlotte, beginning with an exhibition game this Friday between the Hawks and the Pacers,
Charlotte’s current sports image will change. Instead of having shows about races, Charlotte TV will have specials about the true
racehorses of the NBA, like Dominique Wilkins and Michael Jordan. Instead of having Domino’s team tennis, Charlotteans will watch some
matches of substance in the NBA and possibly even bring in some other quality sports. What a draw John McEnroe
would be. Several years ago, he played an exhibition in Columbia, South Carolina, and received great fan support. Columbia also
got the Mark Breland-Marlon Starling title fight, which was nationally televised on ABC. Why does Columbia get these events? Many
factors enter the situation, but one surely must be the sports atmosphere which Charlotte has projected nationwide.

In the past two decades, Charlotte could not support an ABA team or a world football league franchise. Yet 80,000-plus
people go to the World 600 at the speedway. Thankfully, George Shinn has saved the Charlotte O's for the moment,
but what kind of support will they have in a city where more people go to wrestling matches, a viable
entertainment medium but certainly not a sport, than go to the first two rounds of the NCAA basketball tournament? Yes,
Charlotte is a growing city. But is it a major-league city? That question remains to be answered. In 1988, the
Charlotte Hornets take to the court for the first time. Their success, to a large measure, depends upon fan support
over the first five years. These years promise to be rough for the team.

Field hockey ends losing streak
By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

The 2-6 Davidson field hockey team broke a six-game losing streak Wednesday with a 3-0 victory over Salem College. Senior
Janet Bitter scored the first goal three minutes into the game off an assist from Gigi Cooke. The score remained
1-0 through the end of the first half.

The second half began with the Wildcats controlling the offensive pressure. They passed the ball well and got it down
the field quickly on each possession. Gigi Cooke soon made it 2-0 with an unassisted goal from just outside the
circle on the far right side. Towards the end of the game, freshman Marjorie Havighurst, who led the team with
9 shots, scored the third goal for Davidson off a nice assist from Cooke. The Wildcats got 24 shots on
goal to Salem’s 10. Defensively, goalie Elizabeth Franklin recorded her shutout of the season while getting six saves for the
afternoon.

Coach Betsy Pryor was very impressed with her team’s performance. “It was much better,” she said. The Wildcats communicated well
with each other and the confusion which has hurt the team in the past few weeks seemed to be at
a minimum.

Wildcat soccer still hopes
By WHIT WILKS

The Cats were at home for two hard-fought matches this past week, and although they won neither, there is still
hope for a turnaround.team, as management attempts through drafts and trades to formulate a competitive squad. But if the fans
walk out, as Observer columnist Ron Green wrote last year, Charlotte will be ostracized by the big leagues for a
long time to come. The same would hold true if Charlotteans neglected their team for the sake of Neil Bonnett
and Ricky Rudd.

This weekend, Davidson travels to Sewanee, Tennessee for games with the University of the South, Franklin College, and the Blue
Grass Club Team. The Wildcats broke on top roughly eight minutes into the second session on a goal by Mike
Friedlander. As has been the trend all season; however, the team then went flat for the next fifteen minutes and
permitted the visitors to even the contest at one. The squad awoke after the goal and produced several late chances,
the best of which occurred when Friedlander first-timed a wonderful cross from Curtis Ott that just missed the left post.
The battle went into overtime, and it too saw both teams play well between the eighteens but poorly in the
box. Erskine came closest to breaking the tie with only a minute left but this opportunity went inches wide right
and it ended at 1-1.

On Wednesday, the Cats were hoping for the upset as 14th-ranked N.C. State came calling. The Pack was leery of
this and jumped on top in the first half. A high cross deflected off goalie Jim Kelly’s outstretched hands and
found an unmarked State player who buried it in the net. The teams played evenly the rest of the half
and left the field at 1-0 State. The second half saw balanced play for the first twenty minutes, as Davidson
launched countless attacks which the Pack repeatedly stopped with fouls. State did not try to hide its hacks, and was
subsequently assessed five yellow cards. N.C. State did muster several counterattacks of their own, and got goal number two on
a brilliant display of skill. The goal was scored on a scoop shot that froze Kelly in his tracks, as
it appeared certain to sail over the goal before dipping under the bar for the score. This tally broke the
Cats’ spirit, as State managed to control play the rest of the game en route to the 3-0 win. With
the loss, Davidson fell to 6-4-3 heading into Saturday’s home encounter with Liberty.

The Davidsonian
Friday, October 16, 1987

Wildcat football loses to Wingate’s Bulldogs
By STEWART RAWSON and MATT TERRELL

In what is beginning to be a weekly occurrence, Davidson took to the field against the NAIA Division II Wingate
Bulldogs and came away losers for the 17th straight time. The Bulldogs, in their third year of scholarship football, brought
a 2-3 record to Richardson Field and marched home with an even 3-3 mark. Davidson jumped to a quick 3-0
lead on a 43-yard field goal by Jacobs. But Wingate fought back with two touchdowns, while failing to score on
a conversion after their second touchdown. The homecoming crowd sensed imminent defeat. Then, out of nowhere, the Cats purred to
life, as Aaron Edwards returned Wingate’s kickoff deep into Bulldog territory. The crowd sprang to life and rallied behind the
Wildcats. Moments later, Mike Scoczynski handed the ball to Ian Filiss, who scampered for a 1-yard touchdown run. With momentum
building, Brian Overcash took a reverse handoff from Aaron Edwards on Wingate’s punt and tromped 55 yards to put the
Cats in striking distance once more. The Wildcats had to settle for a field goal; this one a 32-yarder from
Jacob, sending the two teams to the locker rooms with a 13-13 deadlock. The fans remained in the stands for
once (due in part to the homecoming festivities). Regardless of the outcome, the Wildcats could be proud of a fine
first half showing.

With the score tied, the Bulldogs came out strong and jumped to a quick 20-13 lead on an 83-yard pass
from Richard Jacobs, a converted linebacker. Davidson answered with a 25-yard bullet from Scoczynski to Charlie Winborne with Jacob providing
the point after. But with the score at 20-20 with 10 minutes and 21 seconds left in the third quarter,
the bubble burst as Wingate scored 30 of the next 37 points in the game. A final glance showed 50-27
on the scoreboard as the Cats fell to 0-6 on the year. An impressive attendance of 3,000 people was tallied
for the homecoming celebration.
