| - | bh BATT 2

ONCE UPON A TIME

Inside Art at (for Gail Gibson)

There were wise men once. We search for their bones now and the places where they walked have become shrines. We stand quietly, baring our heads and mark the names inwardly. We commit to memory words that they have spoken. We chip pieces of their stones and carry them in our pockets as talismans. We hope for truth beyond the numbered pieces of our days, and we turn to the old story.

"Once upon a time," we say, there were wise men and shepherds who came to see the child born of Mary. The unnamed sculptor holds the mystery in his stone, as the child fully formed stands in his mother’s womb. He speaks, and the stone carries his silent words. We wait for his wisdom. We carry the strength from the stone to our wandering hearts.

DREAMS LIFTED FROM THE DEPTHS

Dreams lifted from the depths. Instances and moments caught in between. The blackness of fearing to know and the blackness of not wanting to know. Then the green typhoon of Reformation. Black-gowned Calvinists batter images of God and the saints to broken dust. Shrines once filled with pilgrims grow only ivy over broken stone. Later, in a calmer time, these walls become houses and apartments.

Monday, March 30, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN—

EDITORIAL:

There has been an overwhelming response to the inaugural spring issue of ‘Inside Art’. Lots of contributions have come in over the last week, and many people have come forward with their ideas. Most importantly, people have offered and shared their serious criticism regarding the selection, layout, and the new editorial policies. I really appreciate this and thank everyone most sincerely!

However, some people expressed their view that some of the editorial selection criteria are too acute and stringent. It is not my purpose to impose standards on creativity and art, but only to see as an editor that not “just anything” which is submitted is printed irrespective of its quality. In fact, I can personally vouch for the fact that a lot of very good writers and artists here were very apprehensive to submit their works earlier purely because of the fact that they knew that their stuff would be published regardless of its true merit. This is a negative syndrome which prevents me from receiving a lot of good material. Besides, considering that both the literary magazines — the Davidson Miscellany and Hobart Park — have virtually become extinct, there is no platform for the serious expression of arts and ideas for the people. It is my desire to, at least partially, make ‘Inside Art’ an alternative to the dead literary journals which are fragments lifted like fossils.where people dwell still waiting to be excavated and restored. 

The coelacanth was a hideous slick wet blue invoking the spirit of the past for protection. 

An honor both for me and the rest of the editorial staff to have received contributions from the members of our faculty. This is probably the first time for anyone other than Davidson students to have contributed. I am very pleased that the readers have responded so positively. 

Just to reiterate what I'd said last time: submissions are preferred on diskettes which are compatible on the IBM PC with one print-out copy of the written work. Send in your entries to P.O. Box 4071, Davidson, NC 28036; or leave them in the ‘Inside Art Box’ at the College Union Desk; or drop it by my room (Sentelle 103). The submission deadline for the next issue is March 31.

It was a pleasure going through all the contributions this time. I am looking forward to more submissions in the times to come!

Yours truly,

SUDEEP SEN
Inside Art Editor

JOHN M. GILELIKIN ’89.

ANTHONY S. ABBOTT
Professor, Dept. of English

A GOLFER

He throws the club over his shoulder
And with eyes half shut
Follows the ball cutting
Through the air in a curve

A bird
Passing through thin mist
Drops abruptly
Down into pine woods
Wings flapping a while
Dies

He descends the grass knoll
In a mirror of pool
There exists
A lonely white cloud

The dark and deep woods
Conceal from sight poisonous weeds
But on the way behind him
Appear clusters of
Milky white roses

He has found finally
Just where the bird has fallen
There lies
His golf ball

ZHENGUAN ZHOU ’87.

A Pencil Sketch

ERIC PETERSON ’89
International Student, CHINA.