Pop Film 2001: 2001: A Space Odyssey. Produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick. Screenplay by Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C.
Clarke. Based on the novel by Arthur C. Clarke. Cinematography by Geoffrey Unsworth and John Alcott. Starring Keir Dullea, William
Sylvester, and Gary Lockwood.

To describe Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey as anything other than a masterpiece is to do it a grave
injustice. It is permeated by genius on all levels and is one of the best films of the last twenty
years. Perhaps the most unusual thing about 2001 — considering it was made in the 1960s — is that it
is essentially a silent film. There is, of course, dialogue, but not much. Kubrick resorts to speaking parts only when
there is an important piece of plot information that is best communicated verbally. This lack of dialogue is, for those
of us used to dialogue-based films, strange. However, it gives Kubrick an opportunity to tell his story in more purely
cinematic terms. Also, the long periods of silence give the viewer a better feeling for the vacuum of space.

The average director tells his actors something like this: “Do your best to understand your character so that you can
properly express his emotional condition.” In 2001, Kubrick has done the opposite. None of the actors express any real emotions
at all. Consequently, it is impossible for the viewer to build up any sort of emotional rapport with the characters
in the film. All the actors deliver their lines, few as they may be, bluntly, but with no emotion. Thus,
the viewer is in no way drawn into the film. Throughout the film, you are a spectator, not a participant.

The single exception to this rule, and the reason why such unfeeling dialogue must represent a calculated decision rather than
a fault, is the HAL-9000 computer that runs the spaceship. In fact, “Hal,” because he expresses some emotion, seems to
be more human than any of the people. By the end of the film, the viewer has developed a truly
disturbing sense of sympathy for this machine, this piece of metal held together by wires and bolts.

The end of 2001 has, in only twenty years, become famous — or perhaps infamous, depending on your perspective. All
attempts to describe it must fail because it demands to be experienced rather than explained.

Pianist performs — Pianist Joel Harrison, a former Davidson College music faculty member, tickles the ivories tonight at 8:15 in
Hodson Hall. Harrison will be performing ditties by Scarlatti, Beethoven, Chopin, and Debussy. His concert is sponsored by the music
department as part of the Chamber Music Series.

International Festival — UNCC will hold its thirteenth annual International Festival this Saturday, September 26 from 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. There will be arts and crafts, music and dancing, and food from all over the world. Paula Moore of
the Dean of Students’ Office will be leaving with a group at 11:15. If you’d like to go along or
would like to drive, please meet in front of the Union.

Big piano dedicated — Davidson’s vaunted Boesendorfer piano gets dedicated Oct. 1 with performances by music scholarship students and faculty
members. Highlighting the evening is the piece written and performed by Davidson’s resident composer, Wilmer Welsh. The Boesendorfer is distinctive
due to its price (though Mr. and Mrs. James Vail picked up the tab for it) and its bass range
(with nine extra keys at the bottom of the range) that could sterilize you should you wander too close to
it.

Painter in residence — Chinese brush painter Zhao Qiu will be in residence at Davidson October 2 and 3. While
here, Zhao will show some of his works, demonstrate his painting techniques, and give a public lecture. The lowdown: artwork
display, Oct. 2, 10 a.m. to noon, conversation pit, Union; lecture, “Chinese Brush Painting,” Oct. 2, 4 p.m., Morrison Room,
Union. At the International Festival, Oct. 3, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Zhao is a visiting professor at USC from
Shanxi University in the People’s Republic of China and is that region’s most honored artist. (In China, that is...)

Two photo shows — Two, count ’em, two artsy shows in Chambers until October 11! English professor Frank Bliss has
compiled “Growing Up in Davidson,” which is on display in the Chambers lobby, and Union Director William Brown is displaying
“Davidson Characters,” a multimedia extravaganza detailing neat people past and present at Davidson. Chambers Gallery. Good stuff. See 'em.

The Davidsonian
Friday, September 25, 1987be experienced visually, not verbally. One thing that it is important to watch for is the expression
on David Bowman's face as he arrives in the rather bizarre room in which the movie ends. With his head
bent down and his eyes peering upward, he wears the same expression as all of Kubrick’s madmen: Malcolm McDowell in
A Clockwork Orange, Jack Nicholson in The Shining, and, more recently, George D’Omiforio in Full Metal Jacket. This is Kubrick’s
standard device for expressing insanity.

Kubrick’s masterpiece builds a powerful image. On a purely technical level, the film is a marvel. Remember, while you are
watching it, that 2001 was made ten years before the special effects bonanza that began with Star Wars. Also remember
that it was released just one year before the first man landed on the moon. The cinematography by George Unsworth
and John Alcott is excellent throughout the film. With the death of Alcott last year, the film world lost a
consummate artist.

Ultimately, you will each make your own decision as to the theme of the film, but remember that watching a
film of this nature solely for the narrative is like reading Shakespeare just for the plot.

Screenings: Saturday 9/26 and Sunday 9/27 in Love auditorium. Check page 12 for times.

Afro-American festival celebrates unity and freedom
By MUADI MUKENGE

Frantic drum beats echoed throughout the campus Friday evening as a dancer’s arms undulated rhythmically, her shadow exaggerated to gigantic
proportions against the Union wall. The essence of her dance was brought to attention as she shouted “ahuru,” which means
“freedom” in Yoruba (a Nigerian language). Freedom of expression was the essence of Umogha — an Afro-American cultural festival, held
Sept. 18 on the Union patio. “Umogha” means “unity” in Swahili. For three hours, professional artists shared their interpretation of
the African and Afro-American experience through music, song, dance, and poetry to the appreciative crowd of about 250 persons.

“It was fantastic,” exclaimed Brenda Tapia, assistant chaplain at Davidson. “There was a spirit on campus I’ve never felt before...
it gave the campus the opportunity to experience diversity which is within the campus population,” she added.

Paula Moore Miller, Assistant Dean of Students, echoed Tapia. “I loved it. There was a sense of solidarity present among
everyone.”

The Afro-American festival was the result of an idea which had long been forming in the minds of Miller and
Tapia. Tapia’s initial plan had been to hold a large-scale festival actively involving the students and the community. When a
space was made available on the calendar for mid-Sept., stated Miller, they decided in the interest of time to hold
a minifestival now and to plan the actual “biggie” for the spring.

The performers included the internationally renowned Jim Boyce and his Steel Drum Symphonette, the Culture Bearers (dance and rhythm), jazz
flutist Michael Porter, and Charlotte student/poet Rafael Candalerio, III.

The evening began with the Culture Bearers, which is mainly comprised of family members. Two women, sisters Hadasha and Noni,
began by singing a series of chants in Yoruba — a chant to the ancestors, asking for blessings on the
gathering, and a chant to the father deity, Obayala. The women accompanied themselves on small wooden hand pianos from Ghana
called Twangas. Noni then danced to “Yemamaja” — a song to the mother deity which lives in the sea. Her
movements characterized those of the sea — at first slow and languid before changing to a fast, pulsating rhythm.

Next on the program was Olympic High School student Rafael Candalerio, III. The young poet recited several of his original
works which cynically and blatantly stated thoughts on love (or the lack of it), suicide, hell, and peace (or the
lack of it).

Music returned to the stage as jazz flutist Michael Porter performed on a standard C-flute, a bamboo flute, and the
piano. The 36-year-old musician effectively combined music and history as he talked about the origin and development of Afro-American music,
then played a selection for each example.

As the festival came to a close, I thought to myself what a great and worthwhile program the festival turned
out to be. I am anticipating the campus/community festival planned for spring.
