THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

If not frats, what?

Ken Bogert has touched a nerve. Discussion of his anti-fraternity commentary dominated last weekend’s Patterson Court parties, and Bogert-bashing has become the affiliated upperclassman’s favored pastime. Most Court members have come to agree that Bogert’s arguments should be rejected out of hand. Yet this raises an important question: if the arguments against fraternities are indeed as weak and hollow as most Court members seem to believe, then why have Bogert’s opinions met with such vehement and hateful opposition? Shouldn’t the fraternities just ignore the opposition and carry on? Or is factionalism really a major defect of Davidson’s social system, one which generates so much antagonism that any mention of it brings on storms of controversy?

Davidson’s fraternities and eating clubs are indeed plagued by factionalism, stereotypes, and mutual misunderstandings. The problems are so acute that the Court tends to explode into a chorus of objection at the sign of a challenge like Bogert’s. Unfortunately, however, the opponents of fraternities usually assume that the presence of fraternities on the Court is the major cause of social factionalism. Fraternities may be affected by factionalism, but they don’t cause it; Davidson would be filled with stereotypes and cliques if every Greek organization were permanently disbanded. Inter-group mistrust and rivalry are present in all human societies. They can’t be eliminated. No Davidson student can develop personal relationships with 1400 other individuals. The human mind is simply too small. Even the most open-minded, outgoing student must almost invariably resort to classification and stereotyping in an attempt to organize the hundreds of faces and personalities which cross his path every day. This classification is a bit harder when students don’t cover their chests with big Greek letters, but it’s still necessary. So even at a school without fraternities, most people still unconsciously divide their fellow students into at least two groups: “us” and “them.” The more intolerant students come to dislike or hate “them,” for reasons no more complex than narrowness of mind and lack of understanding. Such intolerance is one of the great human problems; it’s led to Crusades, Jihads, Inquisitions, Wars of Religion, Purges, and Holocausts. When intolerance causes a drunken brawl at a Patterson Court party, we mustn’t assume that it took place because the antagonists wore pledge pins.

Factionalism is a problem here. That’s why we’re so touchy about it. But Davidson’s factions, spats, and squabbles wouldn’t die out if fraternities were eliminated. The college would be torn by controversy for a few years while the administration fought to stamp out Greek organizations, and in the end the new “reformed” eating houses would develop their own brand of factionalism. The old problem would remain, only its face would have changed. Why can’t we try to resolve our misunderstandings within the present social context, instead of calling for radical changes which would only lay a thin cosmetic disguise over the problems we already recognize?

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our beautiful “Ivory Tower” offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Ash Ahsanuddin, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bill Scouten.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Kathryn Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith.Matt Terrell. Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts. Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn. Production Staff: Helen Bowman, Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christain Harberts, Helen Hull, Se-Hoon Oh, Bowe Strickland, Susan Majors. Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Jennings Craig, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love. Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

Friday, December 11, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

"THE PRINCE WHO STOLE CHRISTMAS"

SELF-SCHEDULED EXAMS

Letters

Cheap shot

To the Editor, The Davidsonian.

Last week in Ken Bogert’s opinion, the brothers of the Delta Kappa Chapter of the Fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta were caustically referred to as “drug addicts.” Ken did not make up this statement—he was repeating the words of a professor at Davidson. Describing my brothers as drug addicts, even disguised as a jest, is a pretty hefty cheap shot by anyone’s definition. It is to this professor that my comments are addressed.

I am a FIJI brother. In calling FIJIs “drug addicts,” you have thus implied that I am one. In a sense, I suppose that you are correct. I smoke between sixteen and twenty-five cigarettes per day (tobacco, that is), and I drink alcoholic beverages fairly regularly. Technically speaking, tobacco and alcohol are both drugs, and since I am not inclined to cease either activity in the near future, a case could probably be made for my addiction. What we are really talking about here, of course, is marijuana.

Sir, my brothers and I have been trying very hard for a long time (since before I came to Davidson) to bury the image of drug abuse among FIJIs. The fact that this image continues to persist is distressing, to say the least, when the truth is that never, not even once, has a brother in my fraternity offered me drugs or used them in my presence. I will swear by that statement on my honor. On the other hand, I have been offered drugs by members of three Patterson Court houses, and by independents as well. Yet, who are called the drug addicts? I hear the same from some students—invariably the ones who have never darkened our door.

Sir, it behooves you at Christmas time to keep your bedeviled mouth out of gear if you have not engaged your brain. A solution to the discomfort and outrage is actually quite simple. An apology could be sent (I am afraid that I must insist on a written apology—signed, of course) to our P.O. box. Or a note explaining that you would like to meet with our officers in person could be sent to the same place. The officers of Delta Kappa chapter will be more than happy to meet with you and tell you about our chapter, thus eliminating the need for you to rely on hearsay.

Given the integrity of the professors I know, I am sure that by now they are sorry one of their peers cut loose with such an asinine comment. I am embarrassed for them, enraged by you. I will be forced to conclude, if my brothers do not receive an apology, that you are not a gentleman, and lack the integrity yourself to be influencing the minds of students. That is really about all. I assume that you realize that your statement has left me slightly piqued. I was asked to write a letter by some of my brothers, who are a little more than piqued. Irrational and violently angry might be a better description.

I am going to quit now, go back to my fraternity house, and engage in the weird ritual of watching MTV (which really is), and have a Dr. Pepper.

I remain, Sir, very truly yours,
Russell Booker

Election

To the Davidson student body,

We, the undersigned members of the editorial board of The Davidsonian, would like to express our conviction that Associate Editor Tom Moore is the candidate who is best qualified to assume the editorship of The Davidsonian in the Spring of 1988. We encourage you to support him with your votes on Tuesday, December 15th.

John C. Barrow, News Editor
Jon Dyar Boles, Associate Editor
Suzanne L. Craymer, Features Editor
Keith Finch, Editor-in-chief
Jennifer L. Hoffman, Features Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Robert D. Nesbit, Photography Editor
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor