Opinions by Melissa McLemore

You know what I mean... a beautiful, young blonde virgin walking down the street who is found three days later
behind a building, murdered and very brutally raped. Three black men are being held in conjunction with the incident. That's
what we like to hear, that’s what sells newspapers. It is a safe, distant, and non-threatening view of such a
common occurrence. It’s time to wake up, it’s a dream. Rape can occur anywhere, at any time, to anyone. It
can happen to you or your best friend. Not only can rape happen in an alley, it can happen at
parties, at school, at home, and with the “All American Boy.” Stranger rape is only a very limited form of
rape. Actually, in about 70 percent of the reported rapes (90 percent on college campuses), the victim knew the attacker,
and 50 percent of those rapes occurred in the victim's home.

This article is not meant to scare you, simply to inform you. I do not wish for every female on
campus to be hiding in a locked room every night after dinner in a state of hysterical paranoia. I simply
wish to encourage everyone (women and men) to be aware of the problem and to be aware of what is
going on around them. No, Davidson has not had a sudden outbreak of sexual assaults and I will not attempt
to offer statistics for our campus. However, Davidson, like all college campuses, provides a conducive atmosphere for rape to occur.
First, Davidson is a relatively close environment so everyone knows each other by sight and becomes familiar with living and
social patterns. College also puts increased stress on students through academic and social pressures. When you're failing two courses, have
two tests in the next week, and your professor makes it clear that you are not his or her favorite
student, it is reflexive to want to be in control of something. This, added to some strong misconceptions about human
sexuality, can lead to the most common form of rape, acquaintance rape.

Acquaintance rape is not only more common than stranger rape, it is more psychologically damaging. The victim's entire system of
trust has been violated. It is more difficult for the victim not to feel the burden of guilt when it
was someone she or he knew. And we as a society and as a peer group tend not to support
the victim and we tend to defend the attacker. In essence, we tell the victim it must have been their
fault. We must realize that no one deserves to be hurt like this regardless of how they act at parties,
what they wear, or how much they drink. The statements most common to this campus are that we're safe because
there aren’t any strange men jumping out from the bushes; or we have “The Honor Code” or that we're too
small to have such problems. In a small way, these statements are correct, our campus is relatively safe at night.
However, this false security can mask and even intensify the problem. By not using the same common sense we use
at home, we make it very easy for acquaintance rape to occur. We as students must take responsibility for our
safety. It is important to be aware of your surroundings and the situations in which we are.

I wish I could offer easy solutions to the problem of sexual assault, but there are none. However, there are
ways to lessen the problem and the impact of the crisis. First, to lessen the incidence of acquaintance rape, we
have to start talking to each other. We have to learn how to communicate about our sexuality and start attacking
myths such as when a woman says no she really means yes. We have to learn to say no and
mean it and to respect it when someone else says no. The major way to stop acquaintance rape is to
be aware that it happens, how it happens, and the dynamics involved in it happening. The way to do this
is to educate yourself. You can do this by attending discussions sponsored by the DC Rape Crisis, the Dean’s Office,
or Women’s Concerns. These groups also make information easy to access. There is no excuse for remaining in the Dark
Ages of misconception.

A very important reason for learning about sexual assault is to be able to support those who have been a
victim of it. There is a very good chance that you know someone who has been a victim. According to
Mary Koss’s survey of college students, about one in every four women in college have been sexually assaulted. These women
need love, support, and friendship. Rape is the most difficult crime to accept and to admit, but it is essential
that both occur so that recovery can begin. Your understanding is vital in this recovery. You should know what to
do, what to say, and what not to say if someone comes to you for help. You should also be
aware that thoughtless statements and jokes about rape make it impossible for friends to talk to you about their experiences
or ask for help. It is up to each of us to take responsibility for learning about this issue and
for helping others deal with it.

The Davidson College Rape Crisis has recently started holding office hours from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in our office
in the union. Our office is located off the far right corner of the lobby, down the corridor. Peer Counselors
are available for listening and accessing information about sexual assault. Hall counselors and RA’s also have our names and numbers.
For anyone interested in learning more about sexual assault and how to help victims of it, there will be a
peer counselor training session on Jan. 31 and Feb. 7 in the union from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., contact
Melissa (3951) for more information. It is up to us to start caring and to stop hurting each other through
our ignorance and non-concern.

Nobel Prize: A Western Opinion by Bilal El-Amine

The Nobel Peace Prize has always been the most controversial of the Nobel awards. In 1978, for example, both Menachem
Begin and Anwar Sadat were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts to end the incessant hostility between Egypt
and Israel. The West, on the one hand, viewed Sadat and Begin as men of peace, and hence worthy of
the awards. Arabs, on the other hand, had suffered the belligerency ofthe Begin regime and the oppression of Sadat’s government.
Consequently, Arabs were obviously appalled that these two leaders had been chosen as the recipients of the world’s most prestigious
humanitarian award. A somewhat similar controversy has surfaced over the most recent winner of the Nobel Peace Prize — Elie
Wiesel. As author of "The Night" and other accounts of the Holocaust, Wiesel has devoted his life to the preservation
of what befell the Jewish people during World War II. The world must never forget humanity's greatest crime, Wiesel often
asserts, so that the Holocaust will never be repeated. He has also been outspoken about the plights of other peoples
in distress. “I remember I fought for Biafra, as I did for Bangladesh, as I am trying to do now
for Cambodia,” Wiesel said in a 1978 interview. “I think that it is a scandal that the United States has
not done anything to stop the massacre in Cambodia” (The Nation, Dec. 20, 1986, p. 690). He reaffirmed this commitment
in his Nobel acceptance speech on 10 December 1986: “Wherever men and women are persecuted because of their race, religion,
and political views, that place must — at that moment — become the center of the universe” (New York Times,
Dec. 11, 1986). His guardianship consistently applies to Andrei Sakharov, Iosif Begun, Lech Walesa, and even Nelson Mandela. But what
of the Palestinians? When it comes to this issue Wiesel is silent.

Despite the magnitude of violence which has precipitated from the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, Wiesel has continually refused to criticize Israel. As
a prominent Jewish writer, Wiesel is highly respected in Israel. And yet, our celebrated humanitarian declines the opportunity to protest
atrocities in the country where he retains the most influence. It is for this reason that I agree with some
Arabs as well as a few Israelis that Wiesel was not worthy of the Nobel Peace Prize. Alfred Nobel, founder
of the Nobel Prize, established this award for those who have contributed most positively to humanity on an international scale.
Wiesel’s humanitarian struggle seems to be selective. He will defend human rights everywhere except in cases where Israel is the
perpetrator. “The price I chose to pay for not living in Israel,” he once said, “is not to criticize Israel
from outside its borders” (The Nation, Nov. 8, 1986, p. 478). When asked to comment about the Shatila-Sabra massacre (where
Israeli occupation forces in Lebanon facilitated the massacre of several hundred Palestinian civilians), Wiesel replied that he was “sad.” He
was sad for Israel, “and not against Israel.” After all, he continued, “the Israeli soldiers did not kill” (Ibid). He
was right, Israeli soldiers did not kill. They only surrounded the refugee camps and illuminated the whole area for the
Phalangist murderers within. In another interview, Wiesel dismissed the whole Shatila-Sabra affair as an “episode” in the lives of an
ancient people. He argued: “I believe one cannot judge an ancient people on the basis of episodes. We [the Jews]
are a 4,000-year-old people, and what we do today reflects a history of 4,000 years. Episodes are episodes” (The Nation,
Dec. 20, 1978). On yet another occasion when he was confronted with Begin’s abusive policies in the occupied West Bank,
he evaded the issue by stating that he did not possess all the necessary information to make a judgment (Ibid).
At that time, Begin had invoked an Iron Fist policy through which the Israeli defense forces rather than Palestinian civilians
would govern the Palestinian population in the Occupied Territories. (Human rights violations under this policy are well documented — consult
Amnesty International reports, for example.)

There is no question about Wiesel’s more-than-mild reservations about criticizing Israel for its crimes. But what is more irritating is
that this great man is endowed with great hypocrisy that escapes detection in Western minds. Wiesel, a so-called guardian of
peace, with all his humanity and all his hatred for persecution, has these words to say in response to Israel's
siege of Beirut: “Would it not have been better to have offered Israel unreserved support, regardless of the suffering endured
by the population of Beirut? In the face of hatred, our love for Israel ought to have deepened, become more
whole-hearted, and our faith in Israel more compelling, more true” (The Nation, Nov. 8, 1986, p. 478). Over 300 civilians
were killed and thousands wounded during that siege. Less than five years later, in his Nobel acceptance speech, a tearful
Wiesel told the world, “I swore never to be silent whenever and wherever human beings endure suffering and humiliation” (New
York Times, Dec. 11, 1986). And the audience joined the weeping. But across the continent of Europe and the Mediterranean
Sea, away from this glorious occasion, in an Israeli concentration camp called Ansar, Israeli interrogators touched an exposed electric wire
to Mehdi El-Amine’s private parts. Mehdi, the Palestinians, Lebanon, and even the Middle East were not, however, considered in Oslo,
Norway, where the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded. Perhaps these considerations were disregarded because the prize is a Western institution
judged on Western standards. But you must agree, if the Nobel Peace Prize is to be an international award, as
it was originally conceived, Arab contentions must be considered. If Arab objections were taken into account as they should have
been in this case, then Elie Wiesel would not have been eligible for the Nobel Peace Prize. The exclusion of
Arab opinion (or any region outside the West) is part of a larger trend in which “international” has come to
represent only Western opinion. Since World War II, Western hegemony has penetrated even the most isolated enclaves of the world.
Western standards have, however, been asserted with such self-righteousness that they have provoked hostility in some areas such as Iran.
Though, in most cases, Western standards have been accepted. Those cultures which have rejected Western ideas are often dubbed as
revolutionary, radical, or (if violence is employed) terrorist. In most cases, these accusations stick because of the West's ability to
disseminate its propaganda. We must be wary of such rhetoric and the ethnocentric mindset which produces it. Always question the
moral judgments of the U.S. and other Western nations. I have attempted in this “opinion” to provide a good example
of the bias that is almost inherent in the West’s moral standing. This could also be true of any other
region. But, in light of the extent of Western hegemony today, the Western bias is more likely to be accepted
over a larger area.

El-Amine is a senior from Lebanon.
