Monday, September 21, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

The annual Davidson CROP Walk will begin Sunday, September 27, at 2 p.m. on the Davidson town green, across the street from DCPC. The walk will cover 10 km (6 miles) through the scenic Davidson community. Donations collected by the participants will be used to fight hunger in Davidson and abroad. Twenty-five percent of the money raised will be donated to the Davidson Hot Lunch program. CROP is the hunger-fighting division of Church World Service. Through its programs in 70 nations, CROP seeks to alleviate hunger by stressing self-help, local participation, and long-term solutions. Following the walk, the freshmen men’s and women’s halls with the most participation will be given an ice cream mixer. There will also be a competition between eating houses. Anyone interested in walking or running in the CROP walk or in sponsoring someone should contact Linda Tatsapaugh at 892-5695. Registration begins at 1 p.m. and the walk starts at 2 p.m.

Dr. Gail Gibson, Associate Professor of English and Humanities, recently was named 1987 North Carolina Professor of the Year by the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). In selecting Gibson over 13 other candidates, CASE considered factors such as scholarship and student achievement, but relied primarily on the impact she had on the lives of her students. Gibson specializes in medieval literature and taught at Princeton University for eight years before coming to Davidson in 1983. She is now eligible for national honors awarded to the top 36 professors chosen from more than 400 nominees in the United States and Canada.

Material contributed by John Wightman

Twenty-nine black students from Charlotte-Mecklenburg high schools recently spent four weeks of their summer vacations at Davidson participating in the new Love of Learning Program. The program seeks to identify promising young minority students and encourage them to pursue a college education. Activities of the four weeks included English and math classes, an S.A.T. preparatory course, library study, physical education, and leadership workshops. Developed by the college in cooperation with the Charlotte-Mecklenburg schools, the program received its funding from a $144,000 grant provided by the Jessie Ball duPont Religious, Charitable and Educational Fund. Additional support was obtained by grants from GTE Corporation and the Mary Norris Preyer Fund. Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia directed the program.

Only time stands between Cannon dorm and air conditioning. Over the summer, Davidson spent approximately $48,000 to install air conditioning in the eighty-year-old women’s dorm. Unfortunately, Davidson maintenance crews have been just too busy to complete the last steps of the installation process. According to Residence Life Director Tom Jennings, Cannon was chosen to receive air conditioning because it “makes a good summer facility.”

The Mail

To the WDAV Station Manager:

Just a note in support of the new music programming on your station... I have recently moved to Charlotte. Having previously lived in Greensboro and Chapel Hill, public radio has become my only choice for the airwaves. Listening to the programming from the UNC, Guilford College, UNC-G, and Duke stations has given me great enjoyment. It was good to find...some new music in this area also. Classical public stations are a dime a dozen, appealing to an older, more financially stable audience. They are easier to finance; the art value of their music is firmly established and requires less courage to air than the new wave of aural art. It is good to see courage in the Charlotte area. The South has been a leader in new music, and it is only fitting that one of the largest cities in the South should have proper support for this music.

Music on your “Flipsides”

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. The editors will try to print all letters dealing with subjects of general interest to the campus community, but they must adhere to the following guidelines: All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected publication date. Letters must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept letters submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SSI WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS (MS-DOS) text file format. All letters should be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names to be printed with their letters. The editors reserve the right not to print letters which contain inside jokes, off-color slurs, or advertisements, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic. Writers should include an address and a phone number with their submissions. Writers should address their letters “To the Editors.”

Sincerely yours,
Max Lloyd
Charlotte

Food

To the Editors,

Well, after a week at Davidson, I’ve found that the food in the Commons is undeniably good. Yet sometimes you have to wonder. For instance, on the first day we had fried chicken. At the next meal it was barbeque chicken, followed by chicken tetrazzini and chicken soup. See a pattern? As the chicken gets older, more is done to disguise it. When you're finished eating you place your tray on a conveyor belt and it’s quickly carried out of sight. What happens to the leftover food on that tray? What really happens behind closed doors?

Bradford Fisher

Other dorms will be air-conditioned in the near future.

The Rev. Dr. Albert C. Winn, former head of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), will discuss “Facing the Biblical Ambiguity About War and Peace” on September 28th and 29th in the Davidson College Union as part of the Staley Christian Scholar Lecture Series. His two lectures are entitled “Jesus’ Teaching About War and Peace” and “What About the Old Testament.” Both lectures are at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Winn has served as President of Louisville Seminary, as a college and seminary professor, and as a parish minister.

LIFE IN HELL
WORK IS HELL
“I SWEAR I DIDN'T DO IT”
BONGO

Each CHECK OR Money ORDER