Friday, March 20, 1987  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Baseball Photo Preview

Pitcher, Bill Waitsman, (above) follows through after a fastball.

Teammates congratulate Dave DePaul (No. 10, above right) after a home run.

Dan Simonds (right) watches the opposing pitcher's curveball bite the dust.

Chaucer on spring training in Florida

By ANDY BARRON

Not many people know that Geoffrey Chaucer was not only the first major writer of the English language, but also a great baseball fan. Sure he could not hit a curve, had a poor arm and had stopped playing organized ball well before high school. As this passage indicates, however, it was he who first came up with the idea for spring training.

'Whan that April with his showres soote  
The droughte of March hath perced to the roote,  
So priketh hem Nature in hir corages  
Thanne longen folk to goon on pilgrimages'

This Middle English quote comes from the “General Prologue” to The Canterbury Tales. For those who do not understand this demanding tongue, here is a modern translation.

When April with its showers sweet  
The drought of March has made retreat,  
Anyone with sense and courage  
Does spring training as a pilgrimage.

Unfortunately for Geoff “Worm Burner” Chaucer, spring training was impossible to implement in fourteenth-century England. First of all, the Normans controlled the country and everyone knows how the French cannot grasp baseball. Secondly, there were no minor league affiliates in southern England. Most importantly, Florida had not been discovered. Luckily for the twentieth-century fan, Florida and all its tacky glory stands ready every March for the invasion of players, coaches, and fans who flock to the Sunshine State to prepare the annual installment of our national pastime.

The first official spring training took place in 1886 when Harry Wright took the Phillies to Charleston and Cap Anson took a dozen of his Chicago Cubs to Hot Springs, Arkansas. Since Arkansas hardly qualifies as paradise in March, later teams have tried other locations. The 1911 Yankees, for example, trained in Bermuda. Sounds like a solid, distraction-free place to concentrate on the upcoming season.

Today's teams practice either in Florida, Arizona, or California. For about six weeks centering on March, the big leaguers slowly work themselves into shape for the upcoming season. While the workouts may be low-key, fan reaction is not. The main reason major league teams willingly lose so much money supporting this spring ritual is the tremendous publicity spring training generates.

And the fans do love it. To a baseball fan, spring training means winter will in fact end, the sun will shine, box scores will appear in the daily paper and life soon will return to normal. In March, a nice day demands that the glove be donned to play catch in anticipation of the string of warm days baseball season brings. No other activity will do. Whether the fan actually goes to watch or merely sees pictures or reads reports in the paper of the goings-on down south, spring training creates all of the above emotions.

Over spring break I achieved a lifelong goal of visiting Fort Myers, Florida, winter home of my favorite team, the Kansas City Royals. During my visit, I hoped to talk to such luminaries as Bo Jackson, George Brett, Bret Saberhagen, and, of course, baseball’s premier groundskeeper George Toma. Unfortunately, when my friends and I arrived in the middle of the afternoon, everyone had already gone home.

While I did get to see the field and get my picture taken in front of the clubhouse, I must admit the trip was somewhat of a disappointment. Here was the shrine of my pilgrimage empty of its priests. The finely cut outfield, the sunshine, and watching the groundsmen at work did console me somewhat.

As we prepared to leave I saw the great groundskeeper himself, George Toma. I walked over to talk to him, but before I could get his attention he went into his office. Patiently I waited for his return and finally he came out. Then I asked my question: Do you think Chaucer would approve of how spring training is practiced?

Toma considered the question for some time. His response is as follows:

“Andy, to be perfectly honest, I don’t like Chaucer as much as the Romantics. For me, the biggest ball fan was Shelley, and I know if he were alive today he’d come every year for camp. After all, in ‘Ode to the West Wind’ he says ‘If Spring Training comes, can Opening Day be far behind?’”

I thanked him for his time and his wisdom, knowing I was better for having come to camp in 1987.