Friday, May 8, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trustees support staged divestment from South Africa
By MARK CHEN

Last Friday, the Davidson College Board of Trustees voted on and announced a revised divestment policy. Concerning South Africa, the
trustees announced their support for staged divestment from companies in South Africa, rather than total and immediate divestment.

According to Ralph Holt, chairman of the Finance Committee, the policy would be one of selective divestment after “due process.”
Companies failing to comply with the standards of the college would be urged to by the Finance Committee. Shareholder’s resolutions
might also be used. If a year passed without improvement, the college would sell its shares.

Ben Craig, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, announced that the policy would rely on the Sullivan principles to judge
corporate performance. These principles were created in 1977 by Rev. Leon Sullivan. The principles rate companies in South Africa according
to their efforts to end apartheid. These efforts involve equal employment for all races, moving members of discriminated races in
South Africa into supervisory and management jobs, and improving the quality of employees’ lives outside the work environment. Sullivan himself
plans to abandon the Sullivan principles by May 31, 1987. He has called them ineffective in fighting apartheid. When asked
about Sullivan’s opinion, Holt replied that the principles still stood, with or without Sullivan’s name. The school would still use
them in the divestment policy.

Craig felt that total divestment would not be as effective as the new policy. “I submit you get the attention
of a corporation when you correspond with them. They might not even know it when you divest,” he said.

Larry Dagenhart, counsel to the college and secretary for the trustees, believed that a policy of total divestment might get
out of hand. Other groups might call for divestments based on social concerns: “How about companies that deal in alcohol?
How about companies that deal in tobacco?” he said.

Some students disagreed with the policy and met with the trustees. Michael Makonnen ’88 believed that Davidson’s investments were not
large enough to give it much say. “Davidson is a small institution. If you have a large share of equity,
you can make a difference. But Davidson College doesn’t have the investments to have important leverage.”

Students protest Trustees’ divestment decision

The investment policy is the result of discussions by an advisory committee over the past year. The committee was made
up of trustees, faculty, and students. The policy is the working document of this committee, drafted by Rick Love, assistant
to the President, and made available for amendments by the other members of the committee.

Dr. Lou Ortmayer, professor of political science and a member of the committee, discussed the implications of the policy and
its effect on apartheid. Though the school owns shares in many companies involved in South Africa, those companies would not
be affected by the new policy. He also brought up the example of Mobil Corporation. By the Sullivan principles, its
performance is a model for other businesses in South Africa. Yet it is still required by South African law to
sell oil to the South African military.

Ortmayer, who was asked to be on the committee, supported the policy. “Through the companies’ presence in South Africa, you
institutionalize change,” he said. Further, he argued that turmoil might follow from the collapse of the South African government. “All
you’ve done is replace a black elite with a white elite,” he said.

Rob Ellison ’87, president of the Black Student Coalition and a member of the committee, disagreed with the policy. He
believes that the Sullivan principles are inadequate. While contact between trustees and the other members of the committee was good,
he felt that the committee should have been more diverse. He wished that there had been more members of the
Presbyterian Church, U.S.A. The church has come out with a policy that is more stringent than the one endorsed by
the trustees.

The implementation process has not been decided. Presently the policy is a matter for the Finance Committee. The advisory committee
has been disbanded. At the press conference, Craig said that the results of correspondence between the college and companies in
South Africa might be released. However, there are no plans for a regular report on progress for the Davidson community.
The trustees would give it informally to students and others of the college community who wished to communicate with the
trustees.

Rick Love emphasized that the policy was broad enough to include any moral concerns of the community. He also said
that the primary responsibility of the trustees was the college. “People have not contributed to the endowment to make it
socially active. The trustees’ primary legal responsibility is to the college.”Responsibility ‘is to keep the college stable.” Ellison hoped that
there would be more work done with the investment policy. “I would like to think that the school hasn’t closed
the book on this issue altogether,” he said.

WDAV eliminates Flipsides from programming
By JULIAN MYLCHREEST

On May 5, it was decided to take “Flipsides,” WDAV’s late evening alternative rock program, off the air. To quote
John Clark, the station’s manager since March ’81, “The long-term plans are to make WDAV the best classical music and
arts radio station in the southeast. ‘Flipsides’ is not compatible with those challenging plans. As a format, it just does
not fit.”

WDAV first came on air in the late ’60s as a small ten-watt, student-operated station, broadcasting a mix of classical,
jazz, and rock. However, in 1977, at the instigation of the trustees, its power was increased and its programming took
on a clear classical emphasis. There were disputes and resignations as the professionals moved in; for six weeks the station
was off the air completely. In an attempt to reach a consensus, “Flipsides” was born—a daily slot for new, alternative
music, run and presented by students. Since ’77 it has been a regular feature of WDAV’s programming, carving out a
niche for itself with its radical rock format. Tom Vinton, one of the student announcers, says, “We are unique. No
other station here plays any alternative rock or reggae; stores in Charlotte rely on us to get that type of
music on air, and get it sold.”

But it is not just the fear of alternative rock being lost from the airwaves that bothers the student announcers.
They are annoyed at being left out of WDAV and seeing the station, which receives $60,000 a year from the
college coffers, becoming an exclusively professional outfit. “It will become another arm of the trustees and the administration, with no
real student input,” argues Lee Eichelberger, another involved student. This, however, Clark strongly contends. “It is a great mistake to
equate ‘Flipsides’ with student involvement. The decision to cancel ‘Flipsides’ will not affect efforts to recruit qualified students.”

Despite such reassurances, student doubts and bitterness remain. They are angry at the lateness of the decision and suspicious of
the real motives for it. Clark emphasizes that the ‘Flipsides’ decision “is not a reflection on the inherent merits of
the alternative rock programming,” yet some of the ‘Flipsides’ team remain suspicious. Even if it isn’t true, insists Eichelberger, “The
impression that they don’t care remains.”

Plans are now afoot to set up a new ten-watt station run by the students for the students. Clark has
agreed to hand over the extensive ‘Flipsides’ record library and lend some assistance in getting things started. What is needed
now are funds and, most importantly of all, says Vinton, student and faculty support. “We want people to be out
there for love, joining in and doing their own programming and presenting.” Eichelberger adds, “Let's return to the independence of
before.”

Political Science poll

Students express opinions on all issues

This year has brought some significant changes to Davidson and these events have had an effect in some way on
the entire student body. From the new alcohol laws to the recent vote to change to semesters, there are many
questions concerning student attitudes that needed to be answered. In an effort to measure public opinion, Political Science Professor Tom
Kazee and his Public Opinion class designed and distributed a student opinion survey aimed at measuring responses to approximately eighty
different variables covering a variety of areas.

The survey was part of a class project in which the students chose both the survey topic and questions. Thirty-one
students distributed 517 surveys, of which 70% were returned. Because of time restraints, Kazee considered the return rate of 70%
to be a good one. “The primary reason the class worked on the survey is that it is an excellent
way to learn about measuring public opinion and get hands-on experience at the same time,” Kazee said. After all the
student responses are recorded, students in the Public Opinion class will each write a paper on their findings and how
the pre-survey hypothesis met the recorded data. With the number of surveys collected, the percentage responses have an accuracy of
6%. In other words, the results of the Student Opinion survey should give us a fairly accurate measure of Davidson
student attitudes. The results may be surprising.

In terms of political beliefs, 37% of students consider themselves liberal, 27% moderate, and 36% conservative. When asked which area
of the college is most in need of improving or upgrading, 61% answered that housing facilities should be improved. As
far as housing is concerned, 79% feel that the amount of student housing at Davidson is not adequate while 12%
responded that it is.

—Continued to page 6
