_ Wildcats beat Western Carolina p.7 Volume LXXVI, Number 12 The Davidsonian. Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, January 16, 1987 Pianist Jose Feghali performed last night in the most recent Artist Series presentation.

Clark battles town council
By NELLE McCORKLE

Davidson town Board of Adjustment and Review denied Tom Clark’s request for an extension on a zoning amendment which would allow him to continue operation of a salesroom in his Grey Road studio in the board’s Dec. 16 meeting. Enforcement of the ordinance halted Clark’s sale of his gnome statues at his studio Dec. 31. The ordinance prohibits operation of most types of businesses on residential sites. Clark can appeal the board’s decision to Mecklenburg County Superior Court but said Wednesday he does not plan to do so. Three members of the five-member board voted against Clark’s extension request; one member voted in favor of the request; board chairman William Ward abstained.

Appointed by the Board of Commissioners, these Adjustment and Review Board members denied Clark’s request following a public hearing held the previous week at which Clark’s neighbors, employees, and business associates testified. The board’s decision arose not from testimony but from a vote following examination of local ordinances, according to board member and Sociology/Anthropology Professor Bob Ruth. Located outside town limits but within the one-mile perimeter of local government's jurisdiction, Clark’s Grey Road property Continued on page 3

Kreps discusses international economic policy
By TOM MOORE

Former Secretary of Commerce Juanita Kreps worries about the trade deficit. In her talk, “Domestic Policy Making in a Global Hemisphere,” before 250 people Wednesday night in Love Auditorium, she discussed Japan’s status in the global economy in comparison to our own.

“The Japanese, we think, save too much and consume too little. Japanese savings have enabled that nation to become the world’s major lender, while the U.S. has achieved the dubious position as the world’s greatest borrower,” she said. “As foreign capital flows into the United States, in contrast to the situation only a few years ago, when we were the world’s largest creditor, we are now financing about $100 billion of our annual federal deficit with foreign funds,” said Kreps, who is currently vice president and James B. Duke professor of Economics at Duke University. She was the first woman on the board of the New York Stock Exchange, and also serves as a trustee of the Duke Endowment.

An issue central to the problem is a continuing nationalistic mindset in economics. The dilemma is confronting economic problems that are not national, but global in scope. The trick, she said, is learning to apply existing policy tools to the world economy.

“A current concern is about slowing growth rates,” Kreps said. The U.S. is trying to get Germany and Japan to boost their economies, but they have been reluctant to do so. “The Germans blame the problem on heavy spending by government and consumers” in the United States. Kreps gave a short history of the current situation. “We underes-Estimate the impact of change and discuss policy as though we were a well nation.” Oil embargoes of the 1970s did heavy, if not irreparable, damage to the nation’s economy, she said. Also, she said, “Shifts in our trade position are symptomatic of changes not just in the U.S. economy, but in the economies around the world. A few months ago, a corporate economist drew some parallels between now and the 1930s. “He noted that in both cases we witnessed severe exchange misalignment, falling commodity prices, serious international debt problems, severe agricultural distress in the United States, and threats of retaliation against any trade legislation imposed. But, he noted, there are differences between now and 1930. “Japan is now in the position of the U.S. in 1930, and the U.S. is in the position of Great Britain in 1930. “It’s an oversimplification,” Kreps said, “but it leaves some gnawing doubts about the future of the U.S. trade position.”

She recalled the FBI expose of Japanese theft of IBM secrets. “We don’t know whether to laugh or to cry; cry because it hurts our relations, or laugh because even with their trade surplus they want our technology. We misinterpret Japan’s motives for economic success,” she said. “They drive to succeed not to raise their material level, as does the United States, but to gain self-sufficiency.”

Kreps lamented the falling reputation of economists and explained that although economists’ stock went way up during the Johnson Administration when their suggested tax cut performed as planned, “we now have to explain why Reagan’s has not been equally effective. We have foolishly entered into policy making, as politicians now do economics. We have been charged with failing to foresee and prevent inflation and unemployment.”

In his introduction of Kreps, Davidson economics professor Charles Ratliff noted her membership on the board of RJ Reynolds/Nabisco, which met in Winston-Salem today to decide whether or not to move the corporation’s headquarters to Atlanta. Kreps put her head in her hands at the mention and gave an exaggerated display of her apparent distaste at having to make the decision.

Kreps blasted the 1986 tax reform plan of the Reagan Administration. “Should the United States encourage the thrifty Japanese and other investors from around the world to acquire U.S. debt and private property, or should we invoke domestic policies that would discourage consumption in this country and encourage savings? If it’s the latter,” she said, “if it’s savings we want, the 1986 tax reform moved us in quite the wrong direction. In contrast to earlier periods of recession, where increased consumer spending was necessary to stimulate the economy, now is a time to increase savings and investment.”

She quoted one economist who in turn quoted Ecclesiastes: “For everything there is a season, a time for every matter under the sun,” a free translation of which, he says, would lower interest rates, improve competitiveness, and work closely with other nations for our collective growth. “Great harm can result from pursuing once-ripe policies in the wrong season.”