Features By JENNIFER HOFFMAN

Most students relied on the usual planes, trains, and automobiles to transport them home for the holidays. For a change of pace, however, sophomores Jay Clugston and Ed Matthews decided to bike from Davidson to Gainesville, Fla., Clugston’s home, over Thanksgiving break.

“I guess we first got interested in cycling last spring when we took the P.E. course,” said Matthews. This introduction to the sport, along with the opportunity to purchase new bikes, sparked plans for the long trip. The five-day journey presented a definite challenge. Both Clugston and Matthews were in excellent physical condition from running, cycling, and various other sports. However, their daily biking distance had rarely exceeded 50 miles, while they would have to bicycle about 100 miles per day in order to make their trip to Gainesville. Also, they would be riding with the additional weight of supplies for the first time.

After finishing finals, Clugston and Matthews began their adventure...

Thursday, November 19 -- The pair left Davidson at around 1:20 P.M. and were seen off by a small group of supporters. Their route took them through Charlotte, past the famous landmark of Heritage USA, and finally to Winthrop College where they stayed overnight with friends. They had covered 49.4 miles on their first day.

Friday -- According to Clugston, it was a “tough, tough day.” On their bikes at 7:25 A.M., the two had to ride through early morning fog. Ridgeway, S.C., was their first stop. They ate lunch with members of the crew from the movie “Boys’ Life” which was being filmed there. They spent the rest of their afternoon riding uphill and directly into the wind. Around 11:30 P.M. they finally reached Swansea. However, upon arriving they discovered that there were no motels or campsites in town. After asking around, they were directed 8 miles further on to North, S.C. For $10 they rented a motel room for the night and used the small heater in the room to cook their dinner. Distance for the day totaled 105 miles.

Saturday -- Off to an early start again at 7:30 A.M., Clugston and Matthews continued through various small towns. They agreed that talking with people they met along the way was one of the highlights of the trip. At one town, they stopped to help a man with car trouble. When Clugston and Matthews reached Pembroke, Ga., they were again confronted with the problem of having no place to sleep. After contacting local police for advice, they decided to go an extra 24 miles through Fort Stewart, a military base. It was probably the longest 24 miles of the trip, for they had to cross the woods of the base on roads where bicycles were clearly prohibited. The darkness provided an extra challenge. But as Clugston put it, “We decided that a little nighttime undercover maneuvering would make a memorable experience as well as taking us to a warm Holiday Inn room.” They managed to reach Hinesville without being stopped, bringing their daily distance to a very long 146.6 miles.

Sunday -- After Saturday’s journey, Clugston and Matthews decided to sleep late and hit the road at around 9:15. A missed short cut, a strong head wind, and aching legs and hands made for slow going. Luckily, the roads were extremely flat. After traveling 94.26 miles, the two stopped at an Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge Campsite and spent the night in tents they had rented from Davidson Outdoors.

Monday -- On the final day of their journey, Clugston and Matthews were on the road by 8 A.M. After crossing the Florida border, they traveled over some of the worst roads they had encountered on their trip. They ate lunch in Macclenny, then continued on to Gainesville, their final destination. The last stretch covered 98 miles. It was definitely a memorable 500 miles.

In retrospect, Clugston and Matthews said they would advise others to undergo more training and to make specific plans in advance for overnight stops. They also recommended a third person to lighten the load and for “safety in numbers” purposes.

Why did they spend five days of their Thanksgiving break involved in such physical exertion when they could have been enjoying the relaxation and comforts of home? For Clugston and Matthews, following through on an idea and seeing it become a reality offered sufficient satisfaction. Matthews summed up the accomplishment in simple terms.Terms: “We wanted to do it, and we did it.” What to do with Meleagris Gallopava? What else? Soup! One day Americans will boil. 

By BILL SCOUTEN

Welcome back! Doesn’t it feel great to be back...really!? I don’t know about you, but I certainly am not in the studying mood. In fact, I don’t even want to think about books, school, or studying at all! Certainly, this time, the three weeks between Thanksgiving break and Christmas break, must be a most relevant spoof, bar none. The spoof, however, concentrates not on these so-called “party” weeks, but on the plight of the turkey in modern America.

Meleagris Gallopava, known colloquially as Tom, is the wild turkey which Americans eat so much of during the holiday season. Although once numerous in America’s woodlands, wild turkeys have been reduced in number. Thus, the efficient and cheap growth of turkeys in large flocks has enabled Tom to remain at the forefront of the holiday fare.

Think back to your Thanksgiving or Christmas of last year. Remember Mom or Grandma up at the ungodly hour of 7:00 a.m. on the festive day? Stuffing, gravy, peas, cranberry sauce, perhaps sweet potato pudding, plum pudding, or pie was to be prepared that day. The aroma of this feast would surely make the mouth water. But what of the turkey? What about Tom? Poor guy! After being poked, pushed, punctured, plucked, basted, and baked, the old turkey is cut, carved, clipped, and meted out to the partakers of the feast. And after Tom is attacked and brutally abused, he is left to lie about—a skeleton with bits of skin and stringy pieces of sinew hanging lifelessly. What is there to do with Tom? What else? Soup.

More food for more festivities—the inter-holiday fast. It’s a rather new concept, I'll concede, but the principles behind it are quite sane. “Gluttony sort of goes with end-of-the-year holidays—the more fortunate among us have developed a Yule tradition of stuffing ourselves with food, fellowship, and fun (let’s leave shopping out of this, shall we?)” The solution to the irresolute stomach is quite elementary—eat soup.

You may be asking yourself what Tom, turkey, the holiday season, or soup has to do with the “Spoof” article at Davidson College. (I know I am asking myself that question right now #@$%) The logic, the method to the madness just presented, is quite lucid, though. The parallelism is quite bold. Tom, the soup turkey, is suffering the plight of the American society...its binges and fasts, interest and disinterest, its celebration and commercialism. I knew there was a parallel! Tom, the tortured turkey, is a victim of the holiday season. He suffers from America’s preoccupation with business as usual.

The spoof here is not Tom’s eventual decrepit appearance after a family has picked his bones clean. Nor is the spoof meant to be at the family. Rather, the appetite of the American public for commercialism is the embarrassment. The holiday season is here. Believe it or not! It arrived by helicopter, sleigh, and car almost simultaneously soon after Thanksgiving. It seemed that during the Thanksgiving dinner in all its splendor, the firmament opened and Bing Crosby was heard singing “I’m Dreaming of a White Christmas...”

The commercial sector of American society, bred and raised in flocks much like turkeys, has pecked and fought for its spot in the coop and finally arrived in refrigerated train cars—straight from Madison Avenue. The private sector, in turn, rushes, year after year, to the local grocery and purchases its very own turkey. The private sector invests in commercialism. Indeed, a feast is made each holiday season of pretty girls and catchy jingles. Outrageous, isn’t it? No wonder America eats soup after the holiday season. Perhaps Tom no more, but will use bouillon cubes instead, after eating the turkey whole!

P.S. The “Spoof O’ the Week” staff is sponsoring a Grinch Look-Alike Contest and urges all to nominate any school employee or student whom you feel most resembles the Grinch. Pictures will be accepted at the Davidsonian c/o the Union desk or at Belk 431.

P.P.S. Let’s keep the Spoof article going—don’t let ole Tom Turkey down. Send Christmas spoofs (old or new), funny Christmas card sayings, and any questions you may have concerning anything known (or unbeknownst) to modern man. We will be glad to investigate your suggestions.

P.P.P.S. Please pass the cranberry sauce.