Opinions The Davidsonian Saturday, October 10, 1987

Film reviewers should show competence
Alan Singerman

Viewing cinema classics is not a favorite pastime of Davidson students, as the sparsely attended projections regularly bear witness. This is due to many reasons, not the least being a cultural orientation toward mindless entertainment for which the students bear no responsibility. Be that as it may, it strikes me as unseemly for The Davidsonian to discourage students from attending foreign films, or any other film classics, simply because they do not exhibit the easy entertainment quotient to which this generation, as so many before it, has become accustomed.

I enjoyed reading the witty review of Jean-Luc Godard’s *Masculin-Feminin* written by Mssrs. Dean and Thompson in the October 2 issue of The Davidsonian. And I understand their keen disappointment at being deprived of the spectacle of bare “hooters” in a French film. After all, how can you call it French if it isn’t filled with bare hooters? Dean and Thompson were obviously cheated of the titillation they were led to expect, precipitating a sarcastic, negative review of the film. (The gentlemen would be well advised, however, to watch a few films of Jean Renoir, Marcel Carne, Jean Cocteau, Max Ophuls, Alain Resnais, Francois Truffaut, and Bertrand Tavernier, to name a few; the absence of bare “hooters” in fine French films is conspicuous.)

It is true that *Masculin-Feminin* is not an easy film to understand. It has no familiar story line for the spectator to snuggle down into; it refuses to create a comfortable fictional world for the spectator to immerse him or herself in for two hours; the form itself is unfamiliar and disturbing because it does not correspond to cinematic norms. In short, the film is iconoclastic, like Godard himself, which forces the audience to reflect for two hours, not only about the type of society which is being described (that is the point, fellas), but also about what type of filmmaking is being rejected by the New Wave in France (that’s the other point, guys).

It is difficult for the uninitiated to “enjoy” or even appreciate a film of this sort. If it is shown here, however, it is precisely so that Davidson students can become initiated into the history and subtleties of the “seventh art.” If they are discouraged from going to see it for themselves, the battle is lost before it begins. I have no objections to reviewers giving informed opinions on the films to be shown at Davidson; it is their right. I do object to “movie reviews” written by people with no apparent competence in the field, and who nonetheless presume to advise students—negatively—on the interest of the film. In the case of films the reviewers do not understand, it would be far better just to announce the film, evoke the general content, and let the students make up their own mind. Of the dozen students who attended the projection of *Masculin-Feminin* last Saturday night, half stayed around for a discussion of the film’s form and content. They seemed to feel it was worthwhile.

Alan J. Singerman is an Associate Professor of French.

Today's Lab: The Presidential primary
J. Allen Smith

Today’s lab is the presidential primary. You are all required to attend. One cut and you will have failed to help choose the next president of the United States. The primary date for North Carolina is Super Tuesday, early March. March 12, I believe. You are responsible for bringing your own ballots, and will be responsible for filling them out in front of a notary public. You are also responsible for finding out whether March 12th is, in fact, Super Tuesday and if Super Tuesday is the day on which you are assigned to vote. People from other states may find this is not so.

There will be assigned reading in this course. However,There will be no lectures. The assigned reading deals with issues, and since this is a science course, we will try to stick more with the scientific theories surrounding these issues than mere speculation surrounding them. Newspapers will be our main textbook. They are 25 cents weekdays, though newspapers with color pictures, such as USA Today, might run a little higher. In the past, I have received complaints that Sunday editions run higher in price, as much as 50 cents to a dollar. While I understand these complaints, I would like to remind you that our library carries these newspapers free.

I expect the reading material to be read before coming into lab. I have found in the past that cramming the night before the presidential primary has often led to poor choices from both parties concerned. Blurry-eyed from having studied the newspapers all night, some students have even fallen asleep in the voting booth. I would therefore encourage you to keep up with your daily reading assignments.

I am using video this term as well. All are encouraged to watch the MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour. It has been brought to my attention that weekly news magazines and a few weekly newspapers have come to summarize the daily changes in the presidential primary. While you might find such summaries helpful as an outline for your reading, I would once again like to stress to you the importance of doing the assigned reading. When you come to lab, be prepared to choose only one candidate and explain why. Since this is a science course, I expect you all to take an interest in the candidate who will raise funds for better science buildings and better-informed labs for the future. Bumper stickers and pins I have found useful mnemonics for remembering the candidates’ names.

I encourage you, however, to read over this lab before you come to class on Super Tuesday, so that you know what issues their names are composed of. If their views clash too much with those of people from our own country or seem incongruous and confusing to people of other nations, we might end up with something short of an explosion. I don’t want any explosions. I’d much rather hear slogans. Remember: Pick a candidate that will help us build a better lab. Anyone who skips this lab fails the course. I think that goes without saying. Again, I would like to stress how important it is for you not to miss this lab.

Letters
The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. The editors will try to print all letters dealing with subjects of general interest to the campus community, but they must adhere to the following guidelines:
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- Letters must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept letters submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SSI WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS (MS-DOS) text file format.
- All letters should be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names to be printed with their letters.
- The editors reserve the right not to print letters which contain inside jokes, off-color slurs, or advertisements, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- Writers should include an address and a phone number with their submissions.
- Writers should address their letters to the editor.

J. Allen Smith is a senior history major from Durham, NC.

With this issue, The Davidsonian has entered the brave new world of desktop publishing. Yah. This issue was made possible by Niccolo Stockdale (above), other kind but simple folk at College Relations, the CSC, and the CTW (with the help of the letters “I,” “Q,” “X,” and the number 6). Sorry it was late, but hey: technology isn't pretty.