Wednesday, April 15, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who's on first—

As the NBA and NHL wind down their marathon regular seasons and major league baseball begins its occupation of the sports page, I began to wonder if any of last year’s champions would be able to repeat. Every sports writer with a few inches of newsprint to work with has picked the New York Mets to repeat in baseball and become the next dynasty in sports.

And therein lies my real question: Can dynasties occur in the balance-biased world of 1980s sports?

Back in the fifties and sixties, being a sports fan was easy; you either loved or hated the dynasty in question. Every sport had a dynasty. The New York Yankees dominated baseball, the Boston Celtics won eight straight NBA crowns, Green Bay controlled the NFL and the Montreal Canadiens always won hockey. If you were not a fan of any of these teams, your team lost in the end.

Yet dynasties have been hard to come by in the last decade. The last baseball team to repeat as World Series champions, much less win four or five straight titles, was the Yankees of 1977-78. No basketball champion has repeated since the Celtics in 1968-69. Only in hockey has a dynasty occurred recently as the New York Islanders grabbed four Stanley Cups in 1980-83.

Just a couple of weeks ago the last sports dynasty came to an end. The Iowa Hawkeyes saw their nine-year streak of NCAA wrestling titles fall as arch-rival Iowa State won this year’s NCAA crown. Not since UCLA had won seven consecutive NCAA basketball titles had one school ruled any sport so completely.

Television and simple greed have made dynasties a sports dinosaur. Television has changed sports through the exposure it gives to athletics, both pro and college, and the money it grants to those who play. The NCAA basketball tournament was a 23-team title bout before television swelled it into the 64-team extravaganza that dominates the airwaves in March. The bigger the tournament, the smaller the chances of one team winning every year.

Bigger tournaments haunt the dynastic efforts of teams in all pro sports. Almost half the franchises in the NFL make the playoffs and more than half do in both the NBA and the NHL. In the case of the NHL, more teams make the playoffs (16) than existed in the 1960s (6).

Greed by both players and owners has made dynasties impossible. Owner greed created the expanded playoff formats mentioned above. Player greed has caused new terms such as “free-agent” and “hold-out” to appear in the sports lexicon. As players jump from team to team in search of the highest bidder, simple concepts such as “team loyalty” and “team stability” have disappeared. How can a general manager build a dynasty when his whole team can go to arbitration or become free agents after winning a championship?

Dynasties today are a sports dinosaur—

Player complacency, always the foiler of dynasties, occurs more rapidly in the age of big-money endorsements. Check out the Chicago Bears. Most of the 1986 Super Bowl champs were too busy lining up endorsements to worry about repeating. William “The Refrigerator” Perry still dominates the airwaves as a king of commercials, but his team no longer reigns as Super Bowl champs.

Can the Mets—or Celtics and Canadiens for that matter—repeat their heroics of 1986? No. The Mets are already smashing the self-destruct button as Dwight Gooden has checked into a drug rehabilitation center and Darryl Strawberry has had a run-in with the manager. In addition, Len Dykstra and Wally Backman had peak years last season and will not be as effective this summer.

For the modern team, one championship seems to be the limit.

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!"

Delivery to Davidson College - FREE! After 9 pm SPECIAL Monday-Thursday
12 in. with 3 toppings—$6.25 16 in. with 3 toppings—$7.75

Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.
892-9046 25% OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS

Sign up for Army ROTC Basic Camp. You'll get six weeks of challenges that can build up your leadership skills as well as your body. You'll also get almost $700.

But hurry. This summer may be your last chance to graduate from college with a degree and an officer's commission. Be all you can be. See your Professor of Military Science for details.

See Cpt. David Strong in Bak Basement for INFORMATION

ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS