’ KE MLE OTANI he BOO

Opinions On honor and self-scheduled exams

Ray Thornton

Until last month, I lived at peace with the Davidson tradition of honor. My peaceful affirmation of that tradition ended when November’s issue of “The Dean’s Outbasket” was pushed under my door. How could self-scheduled exams be in peril? To me, the exam procedure was the most poignant indicator of our Code’s effectiveness, of the community of mutual trust that it fostered. If self-scheduled exams were abolished, so was the Honor Code. That the faculty could nonchalantly conclude that “the Honor Code is much larger than the convenience of self-scheduled exams” made me crazy. It forced me to see the Code in a new light, to think about my perception of the Code and to consider the honor and trust that purportedly characterize this Community.

If anything ever put the fear of God into me (besides my father’s anger), it was the Honor Code symposium during freshman orientation. It was Dean Terry spelling out the Code’s commandments and waving before him our signatures on the forms of compliance; it was Cynthia Lewis citing a definition of plagiarism that convinced me, in my freshman paranoia, that no thought I could ever have was original; it was each member of the Honor Council explaining his role in trial proceedings. My first impulse was to find a lawyer -- and quickly. It was for me a fearful experience. So my first association of Davidson honor is with fear. Thanks to a junior’s observation that freshmen were the only students who developed neuroses over the Code, the fear subsided and I began to see the benefits of having the thing. One has only to listen to upperclassman satires of the Honor Council (comments on Big Brother, the Gestapo, and the honor pigs, for example), to sense the resonation of indoctrinated fear. This is not to say that I think fear is bad. Insofar as fear comes to predominate as the reason for acting in a certain manner, however, it victimizes and alienates. That, I think, is bad. It was that summoning of fear and dread in “Do-it-and-see-what-you-get” style that characterized my honor symposium. I remember little else. I do not even remember having been told what honor is.

Now I know that to speak of a person’s honor is to speak of his integrity, probity, and nobility of mind. If one looks to feudal Europe, he sees a much different conceptualization of honor, a code of principally male integrity maintained by force of arms. The idea of honor has evolved since then to the more holistic sense of personal integrity maintained without legal or other obligation. That is to say, honor is an intrinsic way of being that is not bound up in rules and codes, and obedience borne out of these is not inherently honorable. Thus, I have a problem with the concept of naming something an Honor Code, which to me implies a set of rules by which one might achieve honor.

Beyond my qualm with the name, I feel that our conceptualization of honor under this system is limiting. For example, we are told by the institution that students are trusted to take exams at times of their own choice. In the same breath, we are told that we must take the exam in a Chambers classroom, that we may not leave Chambers during our writing of the exam, and that all books must be left outside. In effect, we are told: “We trust you, but not a whole lot.” Trust flows naturally from honor: It is confidence in the integrity and truth of another person. If, in fact, our conception of honor is limited, then so is our ability to trust proportionally limited. In other words, a lack of trust implies a deficit of honor on the part of another, which seems to me to be the case with regard to self-scheduled exams.

Consider the requirement that we write in Chambers. Though there are certainly logistical advantages inherent in this policy, I submit that there is a more basic reason for it. To write an exam anywhere else supposes a smaller concentration of people in the same area. Thus, there are fewer people to ensure that you abide by the Code's proscriptions. Where the element of fear and intimidation in the form of watchful peers is not present, the temptation to cheat may not be overcome and the act may go unreported. Davidson does not trust the individual to be

Do you belong to a fraternity?

Ken Bogert

Davidson does not need fraternities. They harm the college, not enhance it. Evidence of the harm they do is easy to find; I see it everywhere. Factionalism -- that is what fraternities are all about, creating closed groups. This is the first article in a two-part opinion (the next one will appear in next week’s Davidsonian). In the first article, that which follows here, I characterize the different fraternities around campus, distinguishing one from another. Next week, I will hypothesize that these images the fraternities have around campus are actually an indication of the factionalism that harms our college community. Now, however, let’s see what makes those “frats” so special.

The FIJIs belong off campus. Their brothers, as one professor said in class one day, are drug addicts. Beyond that, I think we can safely say that they are all weirdos and really ruin Davidson’s image as a conservative, well- they deserve any? Although they moved back to Patterson Court and out of their famed party house at 609 Main Street, they still cannot be considered a legitimate “frat” at Davidson. One shortcoming is that they are forced to import females from Queens College to all their parties. Without “Queenies,” their parties would be a complete loss (some say they are anyway). And no matter how loyal they seem when they holler their stupid little chant at the stroke of midnight, the brothers must admit that Sig-Ep was not their first choice of fraternities, but a safety-valve fraternity.

Phi-Delts are definitely too tough for Davidson, or so they think. Obviously responsible for the majority of damage around campus, nobody can be sure if they respect anything -- anything except brute force, that is. The verdict on these guys is that they should have gone to N.C. State or maybe Carolina, where immaturity is commonplace. Not too mature themselves, the Sigma Alpha Epsilons are probably the most recognizable people on campus. This distinctive aspect has to do with the incredible similarity of theirbackgrounds. Maybe half of the brothers went to Woodberry Forest prep school where they began to mold their “Hoddy” personalities. The prerequisites for mannered institution. At their leisure, the brothers take off to the house to engage in wild rituals and bong hits, but not necessarily in that order. Well, that’s what we all hear anyway—normal people have never gone to the FIJI house to find out for themselves. Nevertheless, it must be true. The PiKA fraternity consists of a large number of ex-high school athletes as well as some members of varsity sports here on campus. The remainder are hard to classify, but they all enjoy drinking beer a great deal. Give PiKA brothers some beer and each other—they will certainly have a good time. At the PiKA house, it is not hard to find stimulating conversation. Old stories of great championships won in high school abound. Did you know that most PiKAs used to play against at least one athlete that went on to be a professional? It’s true!

Joining helps keep the group pure, eliminating any variety that might make the “frat” less noticeable. A “Hod” must own a land-cruiser bicycle and a crushed golf hat. A “Hod” is not allowed to wear briefs, but must always wear boxer shorts. Moreover, in order to become a member, you must also be able to drink anything and have the ability to control when you are going to barf. A scruffy beard is considered by many brothers to be in excellent taste. Kappa Sig, the newcomer. This “frat” has brought a little variety back to campus with its “Comedy Night Parties,” but does anyone know who these guys are? If the members want to have a different image than the rest of the fraternities on Patterson Court, they should have remained independents. Creation of a new “frat” simply proves that they envy the others. How can they want to be individuals and yet conform to the fraternity system of the Court?

The Davidsonian
Friday, December 4, 1987

...is honorable of his own accord; it trusts the individual to be honorable so long as there is someone else present to ensure our honor. If this is the “atmosphere of trust” fostered by our Code, it is one of limited trust at best, and if trust is qualified or half-hearted, it is no trust at all. Perhaps this is most elegantly illustrated in Terry's statement that the faculty believes the Code “works on reviews and quizzes” but not on exams. Reviews and quizzes, in my experience, are usually in-class affairs controlled by the professor insofar as each student writes during the same fifty-minute period. Except for the possibility of a cheating orgy wherein the entire class might collaborate on answers, there is no real opportunity for dishonor. Where there is no avenue for dishonor, there is no need for trust. In fact, when dishonorability is not a possibility, there is no nobility in honor, and this concept of choice is central to Western theology. It seems to me that those who advocate the abolition of self-scheduled exams would remove the possibility for dishonor. That may seem a real boon until one realizes that the possibility for honor is removed at the same time. We are denied the chance to grow in honor if we cannot make a choice to be honorable. In this light, the abolition of self-scheduled exams in hope of saving our communal honor is a twisted, destructive, and most unfortunate conclusion.

I perceive the very idea of abolishing self-scheduled exams as an admission of failure on the part of the faculty, the students, and the Honor Code. Such action would solve no problem of student morality; it would be, in fact, an affirmation of our state of dishonor and distrust. There have been and shall always be violations of the Code, and we are hopeless if we refuse to accept that. I agree that something needs to change if we are to really recapture the spirit of the Honor Code at Davidson. We must, as Sylvia Plath put it, “haul up our eyelids” to the fact that there is no honor in the Code, only in the human person. And in that direction, we must look for new ways to express our dedication to honor, ways free of moral imperatives and half trust.

Ray Thornton is a sophomore Music Performance major from Point Pleasant, West Virginia, and is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian.

KAs have long been the elite of Patterson Court. The rich, white boys generally have more money than the rest of us and are very conservative as their Old South ritual and their Duck Head pants indicate. Guilty of ending their parties earlier than anyone else, the nickname “milk drinking boys” is appropriate. They respect and honor General Robert E. Lee, a man of excellent breeding and manners who defended the Southern way of life, which included slavery?! Well, if you belong to any house or even if you don’t, you may be upset with what I have said. I would like to say in my defense that these are not my straightforward opinions on the subject, but rather the images that come to mind (maybe slightly exaggerated just for the fun of it) when I think of our “frats.” Please recognize my dry humor no matter how bad it is and don’t think I truly believe any of what I have just said. But be truthful to yourselves, don’t you ever characterize the fraternities in the same way? If you have read this much, you certainly were able to relate to what I have said in some way. You cannot tell me that others, such as that professor who called the FIJIs drug addicts, do not have similar images of the fraternities. Those images are (although exaggerated in this article) widely held around Davidson. The point of all this is that the fraternities have at least one thing in common. They take individuals and reform them in their image—that is how we can understand the characterization of each group. No doubt there are many excellent people that belong to fraternities, but I believe that these people could better serve themselves and Davidson if they were not in a “frat.” What do you think? Instead of giving me threatening phone calls, why not get back at me with a well-written, thoughtful article in next week’s paper? Next week I'll be talking about how the “frats” hurt Davidson.

Ken Bogert is a senior History major from Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jersey.