10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mark Chen, Keith Finch Editors
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, John Gathings, Editors Emeriti
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
David Williams, Associate Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, Jim Dillon, News Editors
Tom Moore, Features Editor
Sudeep Sen, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilkes, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Jeff Loser, Brian Moure, Advertising Managers
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Student Apathy

The first editorial is a nerve-wracking experience. The new editor is caught between the immense responsibility of printing whatever he
says, and the awesome freedom to damn the torpedoes ahead. On this maiden voyage, my hand will be the only
one on the tiller. Keith Finch, my co-editor, is studying in France. He is still “euphoric” over becoming editor, but
won’t enjoy hands-on experience until next fall. Until that time, everything on these pages will be to the credit (or
blame) of yours truly.

The first subject of my editorials will be the most powerful yet quiet interest group on campus—the student body. Nationally,
Davidson is gaining a reputation as a school for highly motivated and smart people, yet locally we have gradually let
many student interests wither away. Many student organizations are either strapped for people, or else they seem increasingly irrelevant. The
most visible sign of this neglect has been the decline of our student publications. I have not seen an issue
of the Davidson Miscellany since the first half of my freshman year. This journal used to publish literature from students
and contributors nationally. From what I have heard, there will be no issue until a student, any student, steps forward
and does the work for its publication. It is ironic that Hobart Park, a student journal which was started as
an alternative to the Miscellany, is also defunct.

Unfortunately, the worst signs of this neglect do not all disappear. We will possess a part of this legacy forever
so long as we keep our Davidson yearbooks. And of course, the Davidsonian has come in for some abuse. Many
people have complained to me about the quality of the paper. Though I agree with many of their points, I
also know that we have a hard-working and responsible staff. If more students became involved, the paper and other publications
would have more time to watch out for mistakes and offer more to students. Jane Campbell was asked to take
over Quips & Cranks since no one had come forward, while I ran unopposed for the editorship.

Without greater student involvement, students will probably be forgotten by the faculty and administration. Myron, our visitor from off-campus, alarmed
some people but has not meant any real debate about campus security. Rather than address the issue, the trustees wish
to hear further “recommendations” about divestment. After quiet debate, the administration and faculty have planned semester change with little student
input. These issues, the ones closest to our own self-interest, may be decided without our further involvement. Many people will
disagree with these views and know better than I do. I would be happy to hear your comments and criticisms.
However you may react to this editorial, please write to us. I would rather be wrong and suffer the abuse
of the school, than be right and not have a single reply.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on theTop floor of the Grey
Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the
editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising
rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsey Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, George Kurani,
Aaron Levine, Sarah Langely, Ed Matthews, Ray Thorton, David Van Pelt, Ted Wilson.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Priscilla Faucette, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller.

Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathews, Susan Wilkins.

Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yaun.

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Lara Glenn, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore,
Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.

Circulation Staff: Laura Dodenhoff, Emilie Sebesta.

Friday, March 20, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s view

SADT THE DAVIDSONIAN

ANTS HELL! YOU'VE GOT MYRONS!!

Letters

I'd like to encourage anyone that feels they have a specific problem or concern not to hesitate to come in
and talk about it or bring it to our attention.

Rick Moore
Crime Prevention Officer

W.A.A.R.

In response to the letter concerning W.A.A.R. (Women Against Ant Rape), we are concerned as students at Davidson College about
a misunderstanding that should never have been an issue at all. Rape is a serious matter, and we take it
as such. Ant rape is not sexual. The W.A.A.R. signs are funny. They are not an issue. They have no
hidden meanings other than humorous messages about ants. As far as violation goes, ants have mastered the art: we have
picked them out of our underwear drawers many times. We are sorry that some students have missed the point of
the signs. They were never meant offensively.

Sheri A. Reynolds '89
Barbera L. Matheny '89

We apologize for any inconvenience that may have been caused by the publication of a photograph which falsely insinuated a
more than professional relationship between the Director and Assistant Director of Residence Life. The movie publicity photograph vaguely resembled these
two and was used in a purely facetious manner. Again, we apologize.

With Spring Term comes increasing activities such as Spring Frolics, etc. There is some concern that alcohol consumption is excessive.
We have had far more problems with disorderly incidents at parties than in the past. These problems almost always involve
someone that’s had too much to drink. Another area of concern is public consumption. Please make sure you know what
areas are designated as drinking areas and stay within those areas while drinking. The college alcohol policy is, I believe,
one we can all live with. Let’s not abuse it to the point we wind up with a much stricter
policy.

Some of you may have noticed that the wanted-person poster has been taken down. I am glad to report that
this individual has been arrested and turned over to the Iredell Co. Sheriff’s Dept.

So far this month the number of larcenies has fallen, but are still occurring. Please remember to secure your property,
even if you're only going to be away a short period of time.

So don’t take such deep breaths when you smell the coffee: you may inhale an ant.
