Friday, October 23, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

Math Illiteracy

At the Open Forum on Admissions Wednesday afternoon, Dr. Robert Manning of the Physics Department pointed out that the application
for Davidson places a premium on the ability to write well, perhaps at the expense of consideration of mathematical ability.
This observation offers a powerful criticism of Davidson and its fellow liberal arts schools; students are graduating who are in
effect mathematical illiterates. While any such school places primary emphasis upon developing the capacity for oral and written expression, the
ability to think mathematically, and to a certain extent logically, should not be neglected.

The system of area requirements is designed to help avoid this problem, but it alone is not enough. Many Davidson
seniors arrive at their advisors’ offices in states of panic, suddenly aware that they are missing an Area III credit,
and because they are seniors, their choice of courses is somewhat restricted. As a result, students who never had Calculus
in high school sometimes end up taking Math 25, while others may pick up the second course in a series
they began two or three years ago. Sometimes they fail. This is disheartening for the student, but not nearly as
disheartening as the fact that these individuals have failed to develop a capacity for scientific reasoning, an important aspect of
a liberal arts education.

Not everyone is a born mathematician, just as not all write well or excel in athletics. But every Davidson student
has some degree of mathematical aptitude, at least inasmuch as it is measured by the SAT. This is not to
say that more emphasis should be placed upon the natural sciences and mathematics at the expense of the humanities. Consideration
should be given, however, to changing requirements within Area III so that Davidson students will have to take at least
one math course, perhaps treating Math 25 like English 21. Another possibility which should be considered is placing a form
for a recommendation from a math or science teacher into the admissions packet for consideration by the committee. When attempting
to evaluate whether or not a student will be capable of performing well academically at Davidson, this aspect of his
or her qualifications should definitely come under consideration.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial
board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation,
Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Ash Ashannudin, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bill Scouten.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Kathryn Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith,
Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Production Staff: Helen Bowman, Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen Hull, Se-Hoon Oh, Bowe Strickland, Susan Majors.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Jennings Craig, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger

Letters

Litter PS

As I nibbled away at my breakfast last Saturday morning (October 17), I was shocked by what I saw. There,
outside the window of Vail Commons, flag poles lay prostrate.on the ground. Beer cans, bottles, and cups also lay scattered
around. Such destruction of campus property and such blatant littering is despicable. A student triggered a false fire alarm in
Belk dormitory as well. Such bacchanalian pranks, to be sure, are uncalled for. I beseech you, please respect our campus,
many of us still have four years to go.

Sincerely,
Rachel Nation

Washers

To the Editors,

Recently I have been enraged with the washer-dryer situation on campus. Although I appreciate the laundry, I have several nice
garments that I prefer to wash. I entered Watts with my bundle of clothes last week, waited endlessly for a
washing machine, put in my clothes, and left, returning in 25 minutes only to find my clothes, soaking wet, lying
on the dingy wooden table amidst miscellaneous dirty and unclaimed laundry. As I examined my clothes, I noticed brown dirty
spots all over everything. At first, I thought that the rude person who had taken my clothes out of the
washer had accidentally, carelessly dropped them into the seeping brown puddles on the floor. However, each person who washed his/her
clothes after me found his/her clothes covered with progressively larger brown chemical stains. After I battled the stains for an
hour with Clorox, Era, Woolite, and Fresh Start, I was resolved to accept the fact that one expensive white blouse,
a white turtleneck, and several other garments were permanently marred. More washers and dryers are needed on campus, along with
maintenance of the available ones. Also, a system is needed whereby students must sign up for allotted time periods to
use the machines and will not tamper with others’ clothes or use more than one washer or dryer at a
time.

Sincerely,
Margaret Carroll

To the Editors,

I have become very frustrated by the UPS package system for Davidson students. Several weeks ago, my mother sent a
package from which I was to select one item and send the other back so that she could return it
to the store. I didn’t receive any type of notice to let me know that the package existed, but my
mother insisted that it had arrived, as she had paid extra to have it “delivered” in one day. Several days
after it arrived, my name appeared on the Union list. I headed for the warehouse, which is several blocks from
campus, only to find that the worker had decided to take a long lunch break. Due to a chemistry lab,
I was unable to make it back to the warehouse during its supposed hours.

Well, for the next two days no one answered the phone at the warehouse. A hallmate and I tried for
several hours, only to find that the sole worker was delivering packages to the faculty! I once more made the
trek to the warehouse to find it securely padlocked with other furious students waiting and shaking their heads. My mother
called to ask me why she hadn’t received her part of the package and all that I could reply was
that the warehouse was only open during my classes and that the worker didn’t answer the phone to indicate that
it was open later. After she informed me that waiting another day would cost about seventy dollars, I picked up
the phone and called the Union. They told me that it was open, but I assured them that the door
was locked. After calling an endless twenty-minute cycle of phone numbers, I finally contacted a supervisor who told me that
it was indeed closed. I told him that I was aware of that fact, and could he please open it
for me. Upon arrival at 3:30 p.m., as the warehouse phone rang unanswered, my package was shoved into my arms,
and the door was frantically padlocked again.

I certainly hope that no one’s grandmother was naive enough to send a surprise batch of homemade cookies, as the
unaware recipient would drift from class to class as his package rotted in the warehouse. Can’t a package notification and
delivery system be developed here?

Sincerely,
Sally Christian
