10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, News Editor
Tom Moore, Features Editor
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

The Student Voice

Why does it seem like students have such a small voice in the affairs of Davidson College? One by one
issues come before the Davidson community and are resolved, apparently without concern for the students’ opinions. Last year, for example,
it was decided that the College would switch to a semester system. Unlike the semester debate which arose five years
ago, this discussion was brief and direct; so direct, indeed, that the student body had little time to respond. Five
years ago there were student-conceived straw polls, petitions, and organized protest; this year there was nothing. The semesters proposal was
adopted.

Today’s Davidson student is witnessing the development of many similar situations. Take the location of the new dormitories, for example.
Why does it seem like the dorms will be constructed in the Belk parking lot even though most of the
student body would prefer to see them elsewhere? Will any of the decision-makers actually worry about what today’s students think?

What about Flipsides? Why couldn’t Davidson students have taken a greater part in the decision to abolish the program? As
it was, most of the students involved in Flipsides felt like the decision was suddenly sprung upon them, even though
Dr. Griffith tried hard to be fair and to make a careful decision. Who chose to suddenly start towing 10
to 15 student cars to the “landing strip” parking lots every day? Who decided that the College could afford to
donate $100,000 to the re-paving of Main Street, while much of the new student parking turns to mud with every
rainstorm? Why is there a parking fee? Why is the laundry fee mandatory? Why can’t students make their opinions count?

A student recently said, “Am I wrong, or is the College here primarily for us? After all, if we weren’t
here, the College wouldn’t be here either. So why can’t we help make decisions?” The answer is fairly straightforward: Davidson
is much more than just its students, and the administration must make its decisions accordingly. Around fourteen thousand people have
graduated from Davidson, and most of them are still alive. Along with the faculty and staff, past and present, and
their relatives and friends, they form the real Davidson community. It’s a constituency of much more importance than most students
realize. Not just because of money. Not just because of “pull,” either. Most people who make up this extended college
community are just normal individuals who are seeking to maintain contact with their old friends and their old memories. It’s
this desire which makes them such powerful forces in the evolution of Davidson.

Current Davidson students who don’t realize how important these folks are might want to take a look at the long
list of class reunions this weekend. Or they could stop by the College Relations or Alumni offices some time and
see just how much effort goes into keeping old Davidson friends well-informed. The Davidson Update is just the most visible
part of a huge network of alumni relations, publications, meetings, and concerns. It’s this extended Davidson community which the administration
has to consider when it refuses to consider large degrees of student involvement in decision-making. The administration’s decisions may seem
undemocratic to some, but they appear much more reasonable when one remembers that its choices will indirectly affect a group
of people at least ten times more numerous than today’s student body. If the administration doesn’t look out for these
peoples’ interests, then who will?

This doesn’t mean that students should quit the decision-making process altogether. Their opinions carry great weight, and when they stick
together on an issue they can sometimes greatly influence the eventual decision. But they shouldn’t worry too much about the
administration’s apparent refusal to listen, either. Because the Administration is listening. It just has a lot of other people to
listen to, too. Caution, moderation, and careful consideration are the only ways it can get its job done. And in
the end, of course, its job is centered around us, the students.The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year
by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext.
149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year,
or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request.

Hey Joe, What’s New In This Week’s Paper?

Letters

Traver and John Mack Son Have New Aps This Saturday, October 10, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wow! There's A Sale At The “TANNING SALON” Any Body Needs A Week!

Parking Problems

Dear Editors,

The towing policy of the campus police also leaves me baffled. Some people receive only warnings the first time they
park illegally, while others are towed immediately. What is needed here is communication. I would like to know, Chief Hughes,
just where all this money is going. Finally, towing should not be done only when extra revenue is needed. Either
give everyone a first-time warning on towing or give it to no one. Thanks for listening.

Sincerely,
Matt Mathews

Only the beginning of the year and someone is already complaining. Oh well, c’est la vie. My complaint centers around
the campus police. I find the thirty dollar car registration fee extremely excessive. To my knowledge (which is scant) it
has never been this high. This college takes enough money from the students on other miscellaneous fees already. On the
estimate of 1,350 students, half of whom have cars, the total amounts to over twenty thousand dollars.

STOP CROP

If you happen to have been passing through Chambers lately, then you no doubt have noticed the near infinite number
of CROP stickers that now decorate the hallowed halls. It’s been a vicious cycle ever since its organizers began to
promote the Walk: some energetic little modern-day Hansel walks through Chambers and traces every step with a “Help CROP Stop
Hunger” sticker. A crew of almost-as-energetic janitors move through and do their best to remove the little stickers. Just when
the floors begin to look like their normal selves, someone else passing through Chambers starts to worry about being left
in the forest. More stickers. More janitors. Don’t get me wrong. I think that the CROP Walk is a great
project, perhaps one of the best service projects that the Davidson community does as a group. There are a couple
of points, however, which should be remembered. To begin with, no cause, no matter how noble, is a license for
vandalism, which is essentially what the stickers are, a vandalism of Chambers. Secondly, stickers should never be distributed en masse
to the Davidson student body. One thing that I noticed about the tables that CROP workers set up before the
Walk, I manned one myself one afternoon, was that the red CROP stickers were laying around by the hundreds. Let’s
face it: you can give a Davidson student a single sticker for his English notebook and no harm to speak
of will come of it. On the other hand, giving some Davidson students a roll of 500 stickers which he
or she cannot resell for a profit is like giving a loaded handgun to a preschooler. Not exactly a wise
choice.

My advice to CROP Walk planners? Keep up the great work, but next year, sell each sticker for $1.00 or
just burn them all before Hansel gets his hands on them.

Sincerely,
Reese Boyd

Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jon Boles, Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge,
Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffmann, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Bill Scouten, Lee Eichelberger, Ash Ashannudin, Glenn Fogle.

Sports Staff: Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Anthony McCarron, Kathryn Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Production Staff: Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen Hull, Bowe Strickland, Susan Majors, Jon Boles.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Bill Carrell, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love.
