Opinions The Davidsonian Friday, March 20, 1987

Davidson social life offers nothing new

Ken Bogert & Jeff Loser

Before reading this opinion, please accept the fact that weekends at Davidson leave a lot to be desired. The social life here revolves around alcohol. Although this is understandable given the lack of alternatives, weekends centered around alcohol are unfulfilling. If you think of us as malcontents, you are right.

Typical account of a typical party on a typical Friday night. Our main character, Sam, likes to mimic the phony fraternity language, which we have set off in parentheses. If you are offended, you have no right to be. Take a detached look at the fraternity social system. Do you see a bunch of wild party animals? No, you are looking at a boring bunch of children.

Sam speaking now. I’m sitting here, Bud. Tall Boy in hand, pondering about all that Davidson has to offer socially. OK — done pondering. The only thing to do is to go down to the “parties.” But “Miami Vice” isn’t over. Nothing happens till after “Vice.” OK — “Vice” is over. I’ve decided to go towards Patterson Court. Just go where the music is. (That’s where the party is, Dude.) I walk down the path behind the Commons and get mud all over my new Reeboks. Can’t see a damn thing around here. I’m in — they all look the same. I’m passed off at the door as an independent by six girls wearing golf hats. (Can’t be independent ‘round here and expect the chicks to dig ya.) I’ve decided that the only thing to do is to “get hammered.” What else is there to do on a Friday night at Davidson? I push myself towards the stairs hoping to get a beer. Nobody wants to get me one — I’m not affiliated, I’m not of age and I’m not a freshman. I wish you could get a beer as easily as you can get one spilled on you. Five beers later. (I’m working on a humunga-buzz, Dude.) I hear R.E.M. play the same tune for the fourth time tonight. I'd like to move away from the speaker, but the other side of the room smells like barf. I should have known that fun would be impossible. It’s not late, but I’m going to get out of here. Everyone I know that was here has suddenly vanished. (Time to crash, Dude.) Can’t wait till next weekend.

While we believe the alcohol issue is serious, we cannot address it in that fashion. Why not? Because Davidson’s social life is a joke. We simply want to create a little controversy just for the hell of it. The following article is a typical account of a typical party on a typical Friday night.

Ken Bogert is a junior from Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, and Jeff Loser is a sophomore from San Juan Capistrano, CA.

Let’s abandon stereotype of hysterical females

In Tennessee Williams’ play The Night of the Iguana, Shannon tells Hank of an insight: “Hank, hysteria is a natural phenomenon, the common denominator of the female nature. It’s the big female weapon, and the test of a man is his ability to cope with it.”

During the pressures of exams, many of us were forced to cope with the big female weapon because a man by the name of Miron Douglas Holler came to campus in search of a little action. From all that I could gather, Miron grabbed a quart of beer a few weeks ago and set out for an adventure. Dressed to party, Miron went up to Fourth Rich. An hysterical female got riled up and ended the adventure by phoning the campus police. Miron was escorted off campus.

Well, as it turned out, Miron wasn’t through partying. A week later, he headed back to Fourth Rich to see if anyone wanted to break the tedium of studying for exams. Miron entered a few rooms to check out what was going on, and an hysterical female, once again, phoned the campus police. The switchboard operator, because she was a woman, was immediately able to recognize the voice of a fellow hysteric, and so she said, “Don’t worry, honey; everything’s okay.” Meanwhile, Miron headed down to Third Rich to find better company. Miron entered a sleeping girl’s room, lifted her covers and grabbed her leg. Too tired to party, the girl threatened to scream if Miron wouldn’t leave. Frustrated and alienated, Miron left. For the second time, Miron ran into our campus police, who once again ruined a good night of fun by taking Miron off campus. Rumor has it that Miron was even taken to jail but was bailed out by his mother who feared that police brutality would traumatize her boy.

Rumor has a lot to say. Some claim Miron was here for three weeks before his picture was posted across our campus. He has been reported to have been seen in just about every girls’ dorm, and many girls report that Miron visited them in their rooms.Heard so many Miron stories that it is hard to say exactly what is true and what is not. However, I can assert several things with certainty. A man who is suspected of committing rape and murder was on our campus for at least a week and a half. Many people, including me, suspected that females were overreacting to the situation until some frightening facts arose. Even after it was known that Miron was probably a rapist and a murderer, some girls were too embarrassed to ask boys to walk them at night. A girl was chased by Miron but did not bother reporting the incident to the police. This lack of action is characteristic of the response of our campus to a situation that was potentially dangerous. Why did the police allow a man, who was chasing girls and entering girls’ rooms, to leave their custody twice before they ran a check and discovered that the man was wanted for rape and murder? It seems that an attitude as naive as that expressed in The Night of the Iguana exists even at Davidson. Perhaps policemen, staff, and students felt that girls who reported seeing Miron were being hysterical, and perhaps females who saw, were chased by, and assaulted by Miron did not report these things because they feared being stereotyped as hysterical females. It is fortunate that no one was raped or hurt, but just because nothing severe happened does not mean that we should forget everything. It would be wise for all of us to abandon the stereotype of the hysterical female because, in our case, the “big female weapon” could have caused a serious injury. Bowman is a sophomore from Richmond, VA.

Davidson football deserves more student attention

This opinion is about the article “Basketball team avenges football agonies” and the editorial on the 1987 Homecoming Game in the Jan. 28 issue of the Davidsonian. Being at Davidson for nearly three years has been a challenge for me and I consider myself fortunate to have been a part of the football program. For most players, the “glory days” of high school football are over, and that’s certainly been true for me. The first thing I became aware of as a freshman football player at Davidson was the lack of school support for the football program. This fact has been a reality at Davidson for quite some time. I write now both as a concerned student and as an athlete about the “emotional numbness and athletic apathy” Mike Adams wrote about in his article and the questions raised about the site of the Homecoming game. It is not my job to blame the apathy concerning the football program on anyone. Everyone loves a winner, and winning is what gets people to the games. However, I don’t appreciate the attitudes reflected in these articles. Instead of giving any type of positive support for the future of the football team, the articles focus on the team’s losses against Southern Conference opponents and the basketball team’s successes against them. These comparisons are pointless. Why use the struggles of a past season to bring attention to the successes of the basketball program? The basketball team’s victories deserve praise in their own light. Instead, Adams half-jokingly talks of the “redemption” of the Wildcat fan. My point is this: why should articles continue to express apathy and indifference to a football program trying to turn things around? Don’t accuse me of being paranoid, or that I feel that the Davidsonian is anti-football. But what disturbs me is that editorials are being written eight months before the game in Charlotte expressing the attitude that no one cares enough about football to drive twenty miles to see a game. With this attitude, the location of any of the games shouldn’t matter; it implies that Davidson students will always prefer to get wasted on a Saturday afternoon rather than to support the one-tenth of the male enrollment participating on the football field. While the editorial encourages us “to consider the realities of Homecoming instead of ideals,” I don’t feel it is unrealistic to think that a student body of Davidson's caliber can truly be supportive of a game in Charlotte. The reality that needs to be faced is the continuing attitude on campus that the football program will not change. This indifference has made it tough for athletes to integrate into the student body. Sure, it’s easy to stereotype all football players, but that’s not fair to the type of student-athletes involved with the football program. Interest in next year’s season in the Colonial Conference could be fostered through supportive articles and features. The months off the playing field are crucial to the success of a season. Why not write about the improvements being made in the weight-training program or the recruiting efforts of the football coaching staff? These recommendations emphasize my call for constructive, positive attitudes from our school newspaper concerning the football program. My opinions are intended to create an awareness of the indifference that I feel can, and should, be changed at Davidson. Poulos is a junior from Sumter, SC.