Friday, January 16, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Warren Wilson president speaks on liberal arts
By DAVID WILLIAMS

“Most of us know that there have been strong studies published recently that call for a greater integration of studies
and a return to a more clearly defined core of studies at the heart of a liberal arts education,” President
John Carey of Warren Wilson College said before an audience of nearly 75 students and faculty in the 900 Room
Tuesday night.

“I personally think that all liberal arts colleges should have some kind of requirement that causes students to come to
grips with problems of a global magnitude and cultures other than our own, and to understand their own lives and
our own country and times in the context of international issues,” he said.

Carey, who has been influential in establishing and strengthening peace studies programs at Warren Wilson and at Florida State University,
said that both international studies and peace studies programs at American institutions of higher education have tremendously served the purpose
of attaining this goal. In tracing the development of such programs, he said that before World War II, “there were
courses in Western history and the study of Western civilization that attempted to move us beyond the parochialism that we
brought to college and the ethnocentrism that is probably the problem of all beginning students — to give us some
perspective on Western civilization.”

But after the Second World War, Carey noted, “the momentum clearly began to develop towards expanding” these programs. International education
programs soon began to feature courses and research on geographical areas such as Africa, India, and the Far East. Institutions
began “joint reciprocal relationships” with foreign countries, including faculty and student exchanges. He said that because of these programs there
soon began to develop “a growing awareness” among students and faculties “that sophistication in a world like ours goes far
beyond Western Europe and Western cultures.”

Carey said that not long after international studies programs had become a hallmark of many institutions, programs in peace studies
began “popping up with amazing rapidity” across the nation. “Why did that happen?” he asked. “Why was not the global
consciousness, the global awakening of the Third World and Africa and Asia and the Far East and the interdisciplinary studies
that were a part of international affairs — why was that not sufficient?”

As peace studies programs emerged, Carey said, they comprised many similarities to international studies programs. A concern for other cultures,
an interest in current affairs, and interests in East-West tensions, in North-South issues and in the problems of the so-called
“Fourth World” embodied both types of programs. Additionally, peace studies and international studies programs each shared concerns for the importance
of experiential learning, the need for interdisciplinary inquiry, and the advocacy of world government. Yet Carey asserted that peace studies
programs have developed “a difference in the...

Continued from page 1

...is the site of his home and his studio in which he sculpts wood spirits or gnomes and miniature people.
Until Dec. 31 the site also included the Thomas F. Clark Company’s display/sales area, where reproductions of Clark’s sculptures were
sold. The company employs 50 people who manufacture and package 2,000 copies daily of Clark’s creations at his Troutman plant;
an additional 100 area residents work in their homes hand-painting the statues.

Clark’s immediate plans include opening a sales outlet on Main Street in the former Don Carey Insurance Company building; Clark
will continue to sculpt, receive visitors and employ a bookkeeper and receptionist at his studio. The planned Main Street outlet
will consist of a sales counter without a showroom of Clark’s works: “I assume it will be a little like
a laundry,” he said. “Visitors can see the display [at the Grey Road studio] and have me sign their collections.”

Joe Poteat, Clark’s national sales manager, also represents other artists through his Cairn Studios: Poteat’s Cairn Computer Center will continue
to operate on Main Street. Long-range plans remain undecided, Clark said. He anticipates completion within six months of a Mooresville
statue reproduction factory now under construction. Asked if he were considering moving his entire operation to Mooresville following the recent
Davidson decision, Clark said, “That remains to be seen. We’re growing at a rate we’re not certain about. If we
keep growing like we have been, we are going to need both the Mooresville and Davidson offices.”

Clark expected the vote’s outcome. He requested both this and a previous hearing (held in January, 1986) to ask the
board to extend the zoning amendment which permits use of residential property for specific types of business subject to periodic
review. Clark said, “The decision the year before [at the January, 1986 hearing] was the big surprise. I thought they’d
be more considerate of all the people who wrote in to the paper and who signed petitions. I hoped all
that display of sympathy for me would change their minds, but it did not move them. They had every right
to make the decision, of course.”

Impact of the board’s decision upon other Davidson businesses operating in residential neighborhoods has yet to be determined. Town Zoning
Administrator and Treasurer/Clerk William E. Brannon said, “There are some marginal cases, but I don’t know of any.” Asked if
the board’s decision in Clark’s case indicates tightened enforcement of local zoning ordinances in the future, Brannon said, “Yes... if
we didn’t enforce the ordinance, we might as well not have it.”

Brannon noted that Clark’s use of the property violated Section 13, home occupation definitions, of local zoning ordinance, which states
that home businesses may not include a sales room or employ workers who reside elsewhere.angle of vision” from that of
international studies. He said, “Very often in programs of international affairs the world is still looked at from the U.S.
point of view.” But students of peace studies “make some very serious efforts to try to find some global perspective
and try to look at the involvement of the United States in the world’s political complexities.” Carey noted that peace
studies programs generally focus on “the pressing question of what alternatives there are about our own national priorities” and on
questions of “better health care for our citizens, better educational resources, more child care for our citizens, and more senses
of human dignity for people of all ethnic backgrounds and races.” Peace studies programs also where. The hearing also concerned
Section 5E, “nonconforming uses of conforming structures.” Brannon said, “He can sculpt and he can have visitors — it’s just
the selling of the gnomes on the premises that is prohibited by the ordinance.” Under Clark’s new arrangement neither sales
nor orders will be accepted at the Grey Road studio. Instead, Clark said, “It’s more like a little museum out
here. You go to the museum and then to the shop at the foot of the stairs and get your
postcards and what not. Well, that shop will be downtown and not here.” Board members William E. Hipp Jr., Ruth,
and Jack Tate voted against extending the zoning amendment. Ruth said, “Basically, it was a very legalistic decision that we
had to make.” At the public hearing, Ruth stated, “I feel that legally I have no choice no matter how
sympathetic I might be toward Dr. Clark but to treat this as a legal matter and I see no new
evidence to change the original decision.” Tate, who lives on property adjoining Clark’s but which fronts on Davis Road, said,
“Tom is a neighbor and I have a very friendly relationship with him. My primary concern is the zoning designation
of the properties in that neighborhood, because the official zoning sanction of any business operation would tend to lower property
values in a residential neighborhood,” Tate said. Board member Mildred Lowery favored granting Clark an extension. Explaining her vote, she
noted that the board did not respond to Clark’s invitation to tour and examine his studio. “We didn’t investigate or
talk this thing over,” she said. “I felt as if it wasn’t done right. Some of them [were] catering to
the other side.” The board received letters and petitions with several hundred signatures requesting the extension. However, the board based
its decision on the ordinance itself rather than on external evidence, Ruth said. Clark said of the decision, “People in
other towns seem surprised. I’ve had people in other towns ask me to move to their towns. This is definitely
my home, my love.”

geopolitics and the behavior of superpowers,” Carey said. Students of peace studies recognize that “there is a tilt to the
right in our political consciousness. It’s not accidental that that’s perceived in cultures other than our own.” Yet when Americans
begin to understand that both superpowers have always acted and will continue to act in predictable patterns, he said, America
will have had “a breakthrough in consciousness for many people about international perspectives.” Additionally, Carey said, peace studies emphasize the
importance of ideology in international relations. Peace studies programs have been “building on a little maxim that every country has
its own kind of ideology. And in telling its story, certain people benefit from telling that story in that way.”
He noted, “If you’ve never quite thought about this, I might ask about that traditional ideology that it’s good for
women to be the bearers of children, and those who bring internal love and nurture to the family nest. Males,
we’re often told, are kind of fashioned by God, to work on the outside, to struggle with the economic arena,
and women come to their fulfillment in being the home creators and nurturers and sufferers of the life and faith.”
“It’s just kind of interesting to ask, because we’ve all heard that story, who benefits?” he said.

“Who keeps telling that story?” In regard to a similar matter, he noted that “there are a lot of people
in this country who benefit from telling” the story that “there is a great hostile power out there that is
just about to gobble us up, and if we don’t arm ourselves to the teeth and be ever-vigilant, that big
bear is going to be here and destroy everything decent about our civilization.” He said, “If you haven’t thought about
that, you might think about the interesting place of the defense industry in America, and of what a vested interest
huge segments of our own society have in telling that story.” Carey noted that upon receiving her Nobel Peace Prize,
Jane Addams said that “her great hope for America is that it would be a country at its own best.”
He said her saddest thought about America was that “in spite of its own ideals as a country that we
did not live up to those ideals, and that if we could manifest those as a country in our own
political system, we would light our own unquenchable light to the world community of nations. I do know that this
is one campus where these two streams of education, international studies and peace studies, need not operate antithetically, but cooperatively,”
he said. “If one can do that, I think Davidson College will have the best there is.”

Mon-Wed. 12-6
Thurs-Sat. 10-6
no appointment necessary
Corner of Hwy. 115 and Faith Rd.
(3 Miles North of Davidson College)
Hair Designers Studio
Call 892-7952 or 892-8894 for Appointments
Male or Female
HAIRCUT & STYLE
PERMANENT WAVE
CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE
1/2 off
