Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Welcome Back, Alumni!

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXVIII, Number 4
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina, 28036
Saturday, October 10, 1987

Downtown facelift nears completion
By JOHN BARROW

Davidson Town officials have announced that the town’s million-dollar Downtown Revitalization Plan will be completed by November 1.

According to town Treasurer Bill Brannon, workers have almost finished sidewalk construction on Main Street and will soon begin the final phase of work on Depot Street. “It’s a real mess right now, but when construction is finished, our town will really look good,” notes Brannon.

The Revitalization Plan results from several years of development and planning. Primary components of the plan include the construction of municipal parking lots, installation of benches and trash receptacles, as well as new landscaping.

The most visible sign of the project has been the replacement of the old 1920’s concrete sidewalks with brick sidewalks, thereby strengthening Davidson’s claim to be the “brick capital of the world.”

Workers completed the first phase of the plan several years ago. That phase, which centered around the then-new Post Office, created new parking and the Nancy McCormac Plaza in front of the Post Office. In addition, the town moved the old Hattie Thompson House off Main Street to a new location in a residential neighborhood.

The second phase, currently under construction, involves the new sidewalks on Main Street, sidewalks behind Main Street stores, and the addition of 79 new parking spaces. The walkway behind the stores will be called Knox Court, and several stores plan to have entrances that open onto it.

After the sidewalks are completed, workers will install new lighting, benches, and trash cans. They also will plant trees along Main Street.

In addition to the aesthetic benefits of the Revitalization Plan, Brannon said town officials hope that the facelift of downtown will attract new businesses to the area. Brannon also noted that despite the plan’s relatively high price tag, it will be paid for in cash and without any tax increases or assessments. Financing came from a federal grant, municipal surpluses, and a $100,000 donation from Davidson College.

Once the Revitalization Plan is completed, Davidson will begin gearing up for the construction of a new town hall. The new building, which is still in the preliminary planning stages, probably will be located behind the present town hall and will include space for administrative offices, fire and police departments, and a community center. Officials plan to raze the old building once the new one is occupied.

Although most of the construction work has proceeded according to plan, workmen received a surprise several weeks ago when they uncovered an old well in front of the ERA Marshall Case Co. building. The well, thought by many to be the old community well, was quickly filled in and covered over, but there are plans to place a marker on the spot if officials can confirm that it was in fact the community well.

SGA Senate meets
By TOM MOORE

Main Street renovations are finishing up with gutter replacements.

Ken Krieg ’83 has been a man on the move since leaving Davidson. After receiving an “advanced generalist degree,” as he termed his master’s in public policy from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, he received a Presidential Management Internship, which has taken him from the Pentagon to the Packard Commission to the National Security Council to the Tower Commission to the White House staff.

Thursday in the Morrison Room of the Union, Krieg offered insights into the stops along his resume. Among other things, he discussed the Iran-Contra affair, from the perspective of one investigating it and from that of one who is now working in the White House.December of 1986, Krieg became the fourth member of the staff of the Tower Commission, created by President Reagan as a special review board to investigate the behind-the-scenes dealings at the NSC and in the White House. Krieg denied that he was the computer whiz that discovered the incriminating IBM PROF messages in the NSC computer system. During a question-and-answer session after his lecture, Krieg reviewed facts surrounding the phrase of the summer: “What did the President know and when did he know it?” Krieg said that it is clear that Reagan “adamantly supported” the ends of releasing the hostages and that of a democratic outcome in Nicaragua. “He set the tone for both,” Krieg said. He asserted that Reagan was “actively involved” in the Iran arms deal, although it was never presented as an arms-for-hostages transaction as such. “Improving long-term relations” and enhancing trust was the way it was put, Krieg said. Iran defines trust as weapons deals, and the United States defines it as the return of hostages, he said. “Essentially there was a twelve-month period where no one presented the President with any negative details” concerning Iran. On the Contra dealings, “It is not as clear what the President knew.” Reagan knew that private money was aiding the effort, Krieg said, but “I would be very surprised if the President thought they were just buying TV ads with the money.” He knew that Saudi Arabia provided funds, but did not know about the other countries, Krieg said. Krieg is presently working in the White House, a position he procured only two weeks after the Tower Commission published its report. “We're responsible for three things,” Krieg said. “For the first time, one individual (Krieg’s boss) has been responsible for all services in the White House complex. We have two phone systems, two computer systems, etcetera.” Also, “We are preparing for the transition” to the next Administration. Usually, Krieg said, the current Administration packs on the 19th of January and hands over the keys on the 20th. Lastly, “We are responsible for controlling the paper flow to the See KRIEG, Page 3.

Topics discussed: carrier radio, new dorms
By ROBERT SMALLEY

The SGA Senate held its first regular Tuesday night meeting with all newly elected Senators this week. The Senate unanimously approved the constitution for the new student-run carrier-current station. As reported two weeks ago, the Senate enthusiastically supports such student initiatives and encourages all interested students to get involved with this project. The carrier-current station is now eligible to receive the $250 allotted by the Activities Tax Council. Regarding the placement of the new dorms, the Senate passed a resolution stating its preferences for locations. Apparently, most students favor placing the dorms in the wooded area between the soccer field and the golf course. This land is being tested for this possibility. A second choice is to locate two dorms in the Belk lot and two more across from Richardson dorm, where Lingle Manor now stands. Reflecting student wishes, the Senate’s stated third choice is the area behind Akers and Irwin dorms. The Senate does not believe that the Belk parking lot can accommodate all four dorms while maintaining an uncrowded atmosphere. Senators wanted also to emphasize that a quality job is the main priority. The Trustees have retained the services of a professional consultant in planning and it should be two weeks before we have his opinions. Finally, the Senate reviewed the proposed academic calendar for 1988-89. The Senate will suggest that more than one reading day be scheduled, and that this be made possible by canceling the last two days of classes prior to Christmas break.