By PERRY MATHEWES

Davidson was finally derailed this week as they ran into the top two teams of the Southern Conference. On Jan.
27 they defeated Furman in Greenville 68-60, and two nights later they beat Western Carolina 84-73. Last Saturday, the Cats
extended their winning streak to eight as they gunned down VMI 90-65. However, Davidson lost Monday at Marshall 76-67 and
last night had their 19-game winning streak in Johnston Gym ended by UT-Chattanooga, 63-55. The Cats’ record now stands at
8-3 in the Conference and 13-8 overall.

The Furman game was important to Davidson as they tried to secure second place from the Paladins. The Cats jumped
out to an 8-1 lead but problems soon set in as junior guard Derek Rucker sprained his ankle early in
the game. This left Rucker off balance all night. Furman ran off 11 straight points to take a 16-10 lead
at the 10:27 mark in the first half. Davidson responded by scoring eight straight points of their own, capped off
by a dunk from senior forward Ace Tanner to take an 18-16 lead. The teams then traded the lead six
times with neither team gaining a decided advantage. Davidson went in at the half up by a point, 30-29.

The Cats ran into more problems early in the second half as Tanner and junior forward Jeff Himes both got
their fourth foul with plenty of time left. As a result, they spent some time on the bench. The guards
picked up much of the slack as Rucker, senior Chris Heineman, and junior Dean Keener provided most of the scoring.
After tying the score once at 39-39, Furman could not get closer than three points down. Davidson led by as
much as 15, 67-52, when Keener hit a pair of free throws. Four players scored in double figures. Keener and
Himes each had 12 points, Heineman pumped in 15 points, and Rucker, limping, led the team with 16.

Davidson was without the services of Rucker for the Western Carolina game. Not only did the team lose their leading
scorer, but they were without their floor leader as well. Western opened the scoring in the game with an early
basket, but four free throws by Tanner had the Cats on top 4-2. Davidson quickly built up an 11-point lead,
15-4, when freshman center Jay Schmitt got an inside basket. Davidson maintained the lead throughout the half with most of
the scoring coming from the inside men of Himes, Tanner, and Schmitt. The Cats led at the half, 41-35.

Western opened the second half with a run on Davidson, cutting the lead to two, 41-39, before the Cats responded
behind the scoring of junior forward Todd Scott and Heineman. WCU kept chipping away at Davidson’s lead and managed to
cut the score to three, 70-67, before the Cats opened up the lead again down the stretch. Davidson’s attack was
well balanced for the game. Scott and Keener had eight points each, Heineman and Schmitt both scored 13 points, Tanner
had 15 points and nine rebounds, and Himes led the team with 20 points and nine rebounds.

In Lexington, Davidson opened the scoring against VMI. The Keydet point guard, however, began to give the Cats some problems
and VMI took a 13-10 lead. Coach Bobby Lutz reacted by putting in a quicker defensive guard, first freshman Edward
“Magic” Gaines, then freshman Alan “Sweet Pea” Hunter, and switching the defense to a 1-3-1 zone. This, along with Heineman’s
excellent defensive play against Gay Elmore, who had scored in double figures for the last 40 games, shut down VMI’s
offense. At the other end of the floor, Himes and Heineman were filling up the hoop as the Cats opened
up a 15-point lead, 40-25, late in the half. Scott also came off the bench and added some valuable points
when Tanner got his third foul ten minutes into the game. Davidson was out front 42-29 at the half.

The second half was all Davidson as Heineman continued to shut down Elmore and the offense went on a rampage.
VMI cut the lead to seven early in the half, 44-37, but they could get no closer as Davidson ran
away down the stretch. Another balanced attack showed that Davidson could function without Rucker. Junior center Mike Gynn came off
the bench to score seven, Keener had eight, Scott and Tanner, sharing time on the floor, had 13 and 14
points respectively, and Himes was the game’s high scorer with 22 points and 8 rebounds. Heineman had 16 points, but
more importantly, he held Elmore, who was averaging over 25 points a game, to just 11 points.

Rucker flew to Huntington to rejoin the team at Marshall in a battle for first place. Although his ankle was
not 100 percent, he was ready to play. Davidson took the early lead but never got more than four points
up as Schmitt provided some early baskets. At the 15:13 mark, Marshall tied the score at 10-10 and 30 seconds
later...They took the lead. With ten minutes left in the half, the Cats regained the lead on a Scott jumper
and a Tanner dunk to make the score 21-18. Rucker hit three straight three-point baskets to extend Davidson’s lead to
nine, 32-23. Hussey then sat down Tanner, Himes, and Heineman to avoid increasing their foul problems.

Robert Nesbit Freshman Jay Schmitt goes up strong against Western Carolina. With three of Davidson’s starters out, Marshall went on
to cut the lead to one point by the half, 34-33. Himes provided most of the scoring early in the
second half as the teams stayed close, trading the lead nine times before Marshall finally took over for good with
11:27 left in the game. Foul trouble hindered the Cats' attempts to come back as Marshall slowly extended their lead.
The final score was the largest margin of the game.

Rucker came back with a bang, scoring 20 points. Schmitt turned in a solid 10 points as did Heineman. Himes
scored 16 and led the team in rebounding with nine boards. In the UTC game, the Cats scored first and
maintained the lead behind the scoring of Himes. Three minutes into the game, UTC tied the score at 6-6 and
30 seconds later they took the lead. The Cats had trouble finding the net but UTC was not faring any
better. Good defense, poor shooting, and poor officiating kept the score knotted at 12-8 in UTC’s favor for over five
minutes in the first half. UTC never led by more than six points and Davidson cut it to two, 22-20,
before the half ended at 26-20. The Mocs jumped out to a 12-point lead early in the second half.

Continued to page 11

Wrestling dragged down in two matches last week

By SUSAN WILKINS

Davidson’s wrestling team had another hard week, faring poorly at the Mid-South/Carson Newman tournament on Saturday and getting beaten at
home Wednesday night by Winston-Salem State University. Once again, the lower weight classes were Davidson’s weak link at the Mid-South
tourney. At 118, freshman Holme Oltrogge started the Cats off by losing two straight matches, although one match Oltrogge lost
by pin to the second-place finisher. Senior Michael Adams dropped his two matches in the 126-pound weight class as did
freshman Bruce Newsome at 134.

The middleweight Cats provided a spark of excitement, although they, too, ended up losing. At 150 pounds, senior captain John
T. Lay won his first-round match against a tough Livingstone opponent. Unfortunately, Lay then dropped his next two matches to
wrestlers from S.C. State and Elon. Sophomore Sherb Sentell, the Cats’ 167 pounder, lost by a technical fall in the
first round, sustaining a serious groin injury. Due to this injury, Sentell defaulted out of the tournament. Junior captain Tim
Heinze won his first-round match in the 177 weight class, and then allowed himself to be pinned in the next
two matches by opponents from Wilmington, Ohio, and Campbell University. Heinze was beaten in both cases by arm drags.

At the heavyweight class, senior Gary Branch placed fourth. He won his first-round match against a Winston-Salem State wrestler, lost
his next match by pin, and then beat his third opponent 8-6 after trailing 6-2. Branch lost his bid for
third place when a Furman wrestler beat him 10-5.

Wednesday’s match against Winston-Salem State University was more of the same. The final score was 34-13. Oltrogge lost his match
at 118, 0-13, mostly because the WSSU wrestler was able to turn Oltrogge to his back to score. Oltrogge looked
to be outweighed and outclassed. Adams lost at 126 by technical fall, getting caught in the double chicken wing. At
134, Newsome wrestled well enough to score five points (one takedown, one reversal, and one escape), but his opponent wrestled
well enough to score 13. Davidson had to forfeit the 142-pound weight class; this upped the WSSU lead to 21-0.
Lay, at 150, scored Davidson’s first points, winning big 19-8. Lay abused his strong opponent, taking him down five times
and escaping three. Davidson forfeited at the 158-pound weight class. At 167, Sentell started strong, taking down the WSSU wrestler
and turning him to his back, but his groin injury began to bother him and he ended by losing 8-12.
Heinze joined Lay in being a winner for the Cats as he wrestled an exciting match in the 177-pound weight
class. Heinze reversed the WSSU wrestler twice and turned him to his back to score in his 8-5 win, bringing
the match score to 7-30. Davidson upped its score to 13 when junior Doug Saintsing received a forfeit in the
190-class. At heavyweight, Branch dropped a tough match. The WSSU wrestler, whom Branch had previously beaten, came out looking for
revenge and repeatedly took Branch down, let him up, and took him down again to beat Branch.

Davidson hosts Furman and Wilkes Community College in their Homecoming match on Saturday at 1:00 pm.
