2 = Beyond Davidson Sedey October 10, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Iran attacks Baghdad, Bork nomination apparently fails

By KATHERINE M. PRICE

Headlining the news Oct. 2-8:

Around the World --

Iran attacked the Iraqi capital of Baghdad on Monday, following earlier Iraqi raids on 5 oil tankers. The Iranian missile attack on Baghdad led to Iraqi promises of retaliation, as the 7-year-old Iran/Iraq war drags on.

Chinese police were sent to control pro-independence demonstrations in Lhasa, the capital of Tibet. Nine people were killed and over 60 people were arrested in the ensuing violence. Protesters were believed to be Buddhist monks, who were demonstrating on the 37th anniversary of China’s military takeover of Tibet.

Over 50 people drowned when a boat carrying illegal refugees sank in the Caribbean. The refugees had left the Dominican Republic and were on their way to Puerto Rico when the boat went down in shark-infested waters.

In South Korea, the opposition party announced that it will delay its convention because of split support for Kim Young Sam and Kim Dae Jung. South Korea’s first direct presidential elections in 16 years are scheduled for Dec. 20.

Mexican President Miguel de la Madrid chose Carlos Salinas de Gortari to succeed him as president last Sunday. Mexican elections will not be held until July, but since the incumbent president has traditionally hand-picked his successor, and the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party has won every election since 1929, Salinas appears destined for the office.

Egyptian President Mubarak was overwhelmingly elected to a second 6-year term. Mubarak ran unopposed in a national referendum on Monday.

In the South Pacific, Fiji’s military leader declared Fiji to be a republic. Fiji has had connections with the British monarchy for 113 years.

Across the Nation --

Los Angeles experienced the largest earthquake to hit California in 16 years last Thurs. The earthquake measured 6.1 on the Richter scale, and was responsible for 7 deaths, as well as extensive property damage.

The nomination of Robert Bork for Supreme Court justice appears doomed, as the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 9-5 to recommend his rejection. The full Senate is also expected to reject the nomination. Bork was nominated by President Reagan to succeed retired Justice Lewis Powell. The Supreme Court began its session this week, without Bork, and therefore lacking one member. The eight Supreme Court justices agreed to hear over twenty cases, including a case involving a New York anti-bias law on the privacy of clubs.

William Sessions, the future FBI director, had to indefinitely postpone his swearing-in ceremony due to a bleeding ulcer.

The Pentagon has decided to go ahead with the testing of the new Trident 2 missile with 12 warheads, despite Administration and congressional concerns that such testing will further complicate U.S./U.S.S.R. arms control talks.

The House of Representatives approved a bill that forces airlines to pay customers for flights cancelled for reasons unrelated to safety.

House Speaker Jim Wright criticized Reagan’s position on Nicaragua and the Central American peace plan. Reagan has threatened to request $270 million in military aid to the contras unless the Sandinista Government of Nicaragua stops accepting Soviet and Cuban military aid and advisers, holds new presidential elections, reduces the size of the military, and takes definitive steps towards democracy.

Emory dean discusses Davidson's semesters

Transition smooth, he reports

By SUSAN PEARSALL

Last Monday, Associate Dean of Emory College Dr. Garland Richmond addressed student concerns about the impending switch from terms to the semester system here at Davidson (to take place in 1988). Although few students attended the talk, which was followed by questions from the floor, those who did were assured that, at least at Emory, both faculty and students alike were very pleased with the results of the changeover. Dr. Richmond, who heads the Department of Student Academic Affairs, described his role at Emory as one of “general supervisory, and coordinating responsibil-“...ity” in several areas, including curricular and academic development. He explained that he had been asked to coordinate the change to semesters, which took place there in 1982, partially because he was at first opposed to the idea. Now, however, he describes himself as “delighted” with the new calendar and the curriculum, which was completely reconstructed to increase the amount of material taught in each course (a measure which will not be taken by Davidson’s faculty). Like Davidson, Emory left the final decision on the semester issue up to a vote by the faculty, a vote which proved extremely close. At the time, Richmond related, he never talked to a student who did not oppose the change. Because of this formidable student opposition, the Administration attempted to placate student opinion and to address their concerns with a series of meetings designed to elicit student questions on the change. They then took all the questions and set up “conversion tables” which carefully illustrated the equivalency of credits earned in distribution and major requirements. In addition, during the summer before the change took place, administrators made a degree audit of every currently enrolled student. Each student received a personalized letter showing him what he had taken and exactly what courses he would need to earn his degree. In every case that a question arose concerning the equivalency of credit, the student was given the benefit of the doubt (mainly because, said Richmond, “We feel that whatever you’re doing at Emory is worthwhile, so we didn’t worry about giving too many ‘breaks’.”). The result: when school resumed in the fall, there were almost no students who were unhappy about the change.

The key to their smooth transition, then, was “going that extra mile to make sure that no student was put at a disadvantage,” explained Richmond. In the five years following the switch, Emory’s experience with semesters has been “absolutely positive.” Participation in extracurricular activities has increased prodigiously since the introduction of semesters. The membership of Volunteer Emory, for example, has gone from 300 to 1000. The school now has three newspapers instead of one, and the orchestra and band have reported “dramatic” increases in size. Furthermore, many students enjoy the freedom which the flexibility of the system affords them. They can schedule classes only on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays or take five instead of four courses a semester so that they can graduate early.

Richmond also believes that the change to semesters has improved students’ academic achievements. A recent survey indicates that a far greater number of students now take course overloads, and the school’s MCAT scores have improved. In fact, the only disadvantage which Richmond was able to cite is that, since the school year now starts in late August, the hot Georgia summer sun is a problem for those who live in dorms without air-conditioning. Davidson students present to hear Dr. Richmond appeared concerned primarily with study areas in pre-med, Humanities, and language requirements. Dr. Charles Dockery allayed some of their fears when he said that, while Emory expanded the amount of material covered in each course, at Davidson, “the whole idea is to do the same amount of work in a longer period of time.” Certainly, it seems that the problems Davidson is experiencing with student apathy toward extracurricular and volunteer activities could be lessened after the new calendar goes into effect. Dr. Richmond, at least, appeared confident that Emory’s recent successes in these areas can be attributed to the introduction of the semester system.

VILLAGE TRAVEL
TRAVEL AGENTS TAKE THE WORRY OUT OF TRAVEL AND IT DOESN'T COST YOU A PENNY!
Reservations For:
- Airline
- Amtrak
- Cruises
- Tours
- Hotels
- Car Rentals
FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE
704/892-9020
SOUTH MAIN ST. - DAVIDSON (Behind Frame Gallery)

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
ucb
Downtown Davidson
MON—THURS. 9-5
Fri. 9-6