Friday, December 4, 1987

Anguish on a Cloudy Day

when God is sleeping
at early sunlight

after the first snowfall
she dawns

on his horizons
adored all in yellow
a gift in a dress

that only her lover
could have chosen too
feels like a skylark
frozen on a moment
still misguided

Inside Art is a section of the Davidsonian devoted to the creative instincts of Davidson students and, on occasion, faculty and staff. All poetry, short stories, short essays, photography, and artwork are welcome. Submissions may be made to either the Davidsonian office or the Union Desk.

In the past year, two different editors have approached Inside Art with two entirely different editorial strategies.

no less a crusted lark
afraid of the next harvest.
a golden dream girl
kneels down low
and prays in prostration
for only her God
could awake
just this once
and melt away
all this tearful snow

Tyler J. Smith ‘89

One considered Inside Art an audience for any material submitted by students. Anything submitted was therefore accepted and printed. A second editor argued that only works worthy of publication would be printed. Thus, a rather selective editorial policy emerged.

It is my feeling and my intention that those two editorial policies can be merged. I do not think Inside Art should necessarily publish everything submitted. Some works would quite simply embarrass their authors more than a rejection would. At the same time, Inside Art is a college publication intended for students. Works that might not be publishable outside of an educational environment may be accepted, and it is my feeling that they should be. I hope that in this way Inside Art can be a resource for the publication of good works of writing or art, without acquiring the elitist reputation it garnered last spring.

At the present time, though, submissions are at a minimum. If you are interested, please leave your work at one of the aforementioned places or call me at -6612.

Jim Dillon ‘89
Inside Art Editor

Rachel Nation

I walked into the night,
walking in the solitude
my mind blanketed in peace
I stumble, I regress
and the voice returns
to gain the power over me
only its breath can possess

Tyler J. Smith ‘89

The night of dancing on our heartstring,
Whirling to the unfinished fiddle of an older race;
Ridden in this older night,
The power of a north day dawning
Rises with the force of your pulse and faster pace.

I walked out in the night.
So long as walking on the cold earth
Is all that now remains, the trace of breath,
Floating in our cold night --
With the leap and jingle of the dark’s birth --
Will not be eyed to steal your dancing death.

I strode into the night,
And the sleep of stones dragged back;
My wakened mind, knowing its wide wound
Ranked in the soldier night.
But the sound and creak of the long black
Followed, beneath the old Albion of the moon.

Douglas Gibson ‘91