12 Friday, March 20, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rusk conference to focus on crises in Middle East

David Williams

When asked to form a mental picture of the Middle East, many Americans, including myself, readily visualize a land of terrorist bombings, hostage-takings, street battles, and refugees. In recent months, our perceptions have been reinforced by witnessing the capture of Americans by Lebanese gunmen, the placement of Syrian troops in West Beirut to halt factional fighting, and the intensification of the seemingly endless war between Iran and Iraq. Yet many of us, despite years of education, have not gained a very clear understanding of the underlying causes of the conflicts and crises currently confronting the Middle East. Nightly television reports from Beirut and Tel-Aviv rarely provide us with the opportunity to examine the richness of Middle Eastern history, culture, and religious traditions or the complexities of the politics and economics in the region. Consequently, it is understandable that we, as American citizens, have little knowledge about the important questions facing the Middle East today. For instance, what factors have contributed to the escalation of the Arab-Israeli conflict in recent years? How have once-prosperous countries such as Lebanon become a haven for terrorism and destruction? What are the domestic political causes which contributed to the initiation of the Iran-Iraq war? And how has involvement by the United States in the region served to exacerbate tensions in the Middle East?

The Dean Rusk Program in International Studies will provide the Davidson community a unique opportunity next week to focus on some of these and other important issues concerning this increasingly volatile area of the world in its second annual conference, entitled “Understanding the Middle East: The Roots of Conflict.” The conference will feature discussion and speakers focusing on the background and history of current crises in the Middle East, including the Arab-Israeli dispute, the civil war in Lebanon, and the Iran-Iraq confrontation.

The conference will take place next Friday, March 27, in the 900 Room of the College Union. At 4:00 p.m. a panel of experts will lead a discussion focusing mainly on the Arab-Israeli dispute and the Palestinian question. Citadel Professor Joseph Twinam, former Ambassador to Bahrain and a former deputy assistant secretary of state for Middle Eastern Affairs, will moderate the discussion. Other panelists will include terrorism specialist Sanford Silverburg of Catawba College and Palestinian-born Kamal Boullata, an artist steeped in Palestinian culture and politics.

At 6 p.m. the conference will break for a light supper provided free of charge by the Dean Rusk Program to conference participants. Then at 7 p.m. keynote speaker Arnold Raphel, who has been principal deputy assistant Secretary of State for the Middle East, will provide a comprehensive overview of current problems the Middle East faces and an analysis of prospects for American involvement in the region. A question and answer session will follow the speech by Raphel, who is currently Ambassador-Designate to Pakistan.

The Dean Rusk Program invites and encourages all members of the Davidson community to participate in the conference, which is free of charge. The conference is the feature event for the Dean Rusk Program this spring term, and we hope that as many students and faculty as possible will attend. While participating in the conference will cost you part of a Friday afternoon and evening, you will still have plenty of time to socialize after the conference recesses Friday night at 9:00 p.m. And of course, who can beat a free dinner?

The Middle East continues to be a troubling spot for most Americans. Yet do we really understand what is currently taking place in this increasingly important area of the world? What can the United States do in the future to help resolve the ongoing crises in the Middle East and to promote an eventual settlement that will provide for stable and lasting peace in the region? Find out at the second annual Dean Rusk Program Conference. You don’t want to miss it!

David Williams is a senior from Memphis, TN.

Tim Brown

Alarming news bulletins from Nicaragua and Honduras have traveled the radio waves and have gotten some contra rebels in Miami so riled up they've decided—by golly—to build their own radio station: Radio Liberacion. The station is supposed to speak and to think for Nicaraguans whose political voices have been muzzled by the Sandinistas.

The alarming news from Nicaragua is that the Sandinistas are winning the hearts and minds of many Miskito Indians of Nicaragua who live in that country’s wild, wild east. Six years ago, when the contras started waging war against the Sandinistas, the Sandinistas for strategic purposes shoved the Miskito Indians out of their lands along the Honduran-Nicaraguan border. Soon thereafter, many Miskito Indians joined ranks with the contras in stouthearted pursuit of vengeance and their lost lands.

For the last eighteen months, the Sandinistas have sought rapid rapprochement with the Miskitos by undoing previous wrongdoings. The Sandinistas have given the Miskitos back their lands, have given the Miskitos money to help them resettle their lands, and have offered the Miskitos limited self-government and control over their lands’ rich natural resources. Gradually, as the stakes increase, more and more Miskitos are reconciling themselves with the seemingly sincere Sandinistas. Miskito Indians who 18 months ago were fighting alongside the contras now join hands with Sandinista soldiers to pray.for peace and unity. As the Miskito commander Gadea says with deliberation, “We were fighting for the rights of the Indians. Once the Sandinistas agreed to recognize our rights, there was no reason to fight anymore.”

The alarming news from Honduras is that the president of Honduras, Jose Azcona Hoyo, wants the estimated 7000 contras currently in Honduras to get out and to stay out. Azcona is unneighborly towards the contras because their prolonged visit is as inconvenient, or almost as inconvenient, for him as a visit from his ear-pinching mother-in-law. Azcona fears that the contras’ presence just inside the Honduran border will pull Honduras deeper and deeper into the U.S.-supported war with the Sandinistas. Recently, 1000 Sandinista troops overran a Honduran Army fort and burned down three Honduran villages in search of contra rebels. Azcona realizes that the contras’ presence is an embarrassment to and a political liability for his government. Azcona’s conservative rival Cruz Torres already has made the expulsion of the contras one of his campaign slogans. During timeouts between battles, the contras in Honduras carouse, rape, pillage, steal, and kill. Eduardo Tercero, a farmer from the hamlet of El Amparo, explains that the contras steal the Honduran farmers’ machinery, cattle, and coffee. Another farmer from that hamlet says that during the last three years the contras have killed more than 100 civilians for suspected collaboration with the Sandinistas.

Economic aid and military aid from the U.S., which forms of aid have been proportionally and positively related to Azcona’s tolerance of the contras’ presence in Honduras, have allowed Azcona to bear the political burden of the contras’ presence with a plastic smile. In 1984, Honduras received a total amount of $78.5 million in economic aid and military aid from the U.S. But with the passage of the ill-founded and ill-fated Gramm-Rudman budget restrictions, the U.S. might no longer be able to fork out that kind of money. In 1986, the Hondurans were gravely disappointed when they were denied $80 million in economic aid, which aid the U.S. had intended for Honduras in 1987.

Amidst the darkening clouds of realism in eastern Nicaragua and Honduras, some contra leaders in Miami are confident that Radio Liberacion will galvanize the collective willpower of the contras in Nicaragua and will increase support for the contras in Nicaragua. From 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., broadcasts will include anti-Sandinista music, soap operas, editorials and commentaries by contra leaders, and caricatures of Daniel Ortega and Interior Minister Tomas Borge speaking amid barking dogs, crowing roosters, and a barnyard pianist who sounds a lot like Liszt.

Swallowing the last blurb of Radio Liberacion’s message is as difficult for a reasonable listener as swallowing a teaspoonful of cod-liver oil is for any conscious creature with functioning taste buds. Radio Liberacion’s message is: “Radio Liberacion... The voice of those who have no voice... Thousands of compatriots [contras] who form the commandos of liberty in a country oppressed by international communism through nine traitors of the Sandinistas’ front... Communists... the enemies of God.” The last blurb of Radio Liberacion’s message is enough to make a reasonable listener stand cringing by his radio with both his fists knotted at his sides. It is not enough to inspire a reasonable listener to join in a crusade against communists and to subject communists to inquisitions. But, evidently, some contra rebels in Miami judge the reasonableness of many of their compatriots in Nicaragua to be at least four centuries anachronistic.

Continued from page 1

...derstood by the fact that 46.4 percent of the revenue for an independent college comes from tuition and fees, as reported by the National Institute of Independent Colleges and Universities. As costs for college increase, much of the increase has to come from tuition and fees. Much of the endowment has already been earmarked for certain areas and programs. In addition, money cannot simply be taken out of the endowment at will; this procedure does not take into account unforeseen expenses that can arise. With Davidson, the average of the endowments for the past nine terms and the summer is averaged out and 5% of the average goes into the budget each year. Davidson is considering a campaign to add more money to the endowment, specifically for keeping tuition and fee increases down. It is projected at this point that $2 will go into the endowment per $1 for capital improvements. Talk has surfaced regarding the guaranteeing of incoming freshmen each year a constant flat comprehensive fee increase. However, the problem is that while a freshman coming in during the fall of 1988 might be guaranteed a 5 percent increase for four years, a freshman coming in during the fall of 1989 might have to pay a flat 6 percent increase for four years due to rising costs. There is little possibility Davidson will have a program like this. As for a “tuition futures” plan which exists at some colleges now where the parents prepay the tuition for their children’s college education in advance at a particular school, Kuykendall would only say that such an idea is difficult. He posed the scenarios of a child who does not want to go to the school the parents prepaid to, or if the school does not accept the child.