as
Sports Page

Friday, January 16, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sports year 1987 foreshadowed

By EDWIN PAGE

Because my prognosticating powers seem to be at a high right about now, and because it is pretty much the beginning of the new year, I am prepared to make my fearless predictions for the upcoming year in sports. Most of my fearlessness stems from the fact that when most of these are found to be totally wrong, I will not be around Davidson to face the music. So with that in mind, here we go.

Being a big believer in trends, I don’t think that the Celtics can break the stigma of being defending champs. The Rockets have gotten off to a slow start and have recently been stripped of their top two guards, so you can write them off now.

Not only will the Celts not win, they won’t even reach the finals. Dominique Wilkins will help the Hawks gun down Boston en route to a showdown with the Lakers. This will be one of the fastest-paced finals ever as the Lakers will stop the still too young Hawks in six.

In baseball, the fates will fortunately prevent the damn Mets from winning the series again. They will however win the NL East basically by default over an improving Philadelphia team. In the West, the Astros will fall short as Mike Scott returns to the realm of ordinary humans and Nolan Ryan finally begins to show his age. In their place will be the surprising San Francisco Giants who will ambush the cocky Mets in five games in the NLCS.

In the American League, Boston will fail to beat two jinxes, that of repeating in the AL East and the Cy Young jinx. Roger Clemens will go down with a recurrence of his shoulder problems and take Boston’s hopes with him.

Over the last six years, every team in the AL East has taken a turn at the top spot and this year Cleveland will make it seven. They will acquire some pitching in the off-season and their hitting will be enough to clinch the title.

The Royals will rebound in the West, but without more hitting, they won’t go far. The Angels are already getting arthritis and Wally Joyner will continue his second-half fade come April. This makes for a tight three-way race with the Rangers in baseball’s most mediocre division.

With a good trade or two and some revived young pitchers, the Royals should clinch it on the last day only to be whalloped in four by the 1987 World Champion Cleveland Indians.

In the NFL, the Browns will make it a big year for Cleveland as they run off to a 13-3 record and whip Denver in a grudge match for the AFC title. The Bears will be ferocious again as Jim McMahon returns to the helm. They will nip the 49ers in the NFC championship, but will fall prey to a hungrier and less heavily commercialized Browns team in the Super Bowl of ’88.

Well, there you have it. My advice is to mortgage any property of value that you may own and get your bets down now while the odds are still incredibly high.

Our three-year and two-year scholarships won't make college easier.

Just easier to pay for.

Even if you didn't start college on a scholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.

See Capt. David Strong Ext. 170 in the basement of Belk Dorm

ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS

PICTURE YOUR WORK

In The 1988 Davidson College Wall Calendar

CASH PRIZES FOR SLIDES OF DAVIDSON SCENES SELECTED FOR THE 1988 DAVIDSON COLLEGE WALL CALENDAR!!

ELIGIBILITY: Any student enrolled this year, faculty or staff member employed full- or part-time by Davidson may enter.

RULES: Entries must be 35 mm slides that relate in some way to Davidson College or the Town of Davidson. Slides may have been taken at any time, including before the announcement of the contest. All entries should be submitted to Jerry Stockdale, director of college relations, before June 1, 1987. Winners will be announced by August 1.

JUDGES: Cotten Alston '67, professional photographer; Errol C. Gibson, graphic designer; Jerry S. Stockdale, director of college relations.

PRIZES: All slides selected will be published in the 1988 Davidson College wall calendar. Additionally, there will be a First Prize of $100, Second Prize of $75, and Third Prize of $50.

JANUARY CLEARANCE

Men’s and Women’s Clothing

Downtown Mooresville for 75 years

PORT CITY MOTOR CO.
U-SAVE AUTO RENTAL

664-2703 to reserve cars also trucks!

4 doors and coupes for rent

$20 to move stuff

403 S. Broad St. Mooresville
Right across from Pantry

We’re selling cars
We’re also renting cars

night and day service
Insurance optional