Friday, October 16, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Tom Moore, Jon Boles, Associate Editors
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Barrow, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

An able administrator

What can you say about a college administrator who leaps in to solve problems before they even arise? Because that’s just the sort of thing that Carleton Pritchard, Director of Auxiliary Services, is doing by creating a new grocery store in the Union Cafe. Realizing that the closing of the Davidson Food Lion threatens to pose a terrible inconvenience to most students (especially those without automobiles), Mr. Pritchard has set out to do something about it. He’s arranged a survey to gauge student opinion. He’s researched the possibility of constructing a grocery store in the Student Union. Now, two weeks before the Food Lion is scheduled to close, the plans are laid and the problem is virtually solved. Within six weeks, Davidson College will have its own grocery store. No hassling, no fussing. It’s done.

This is the way Carleton Pritchard works, and his distinctive signature of efficiency and concern is evident across the campus. His management of the Vail Commons has helped it to attract more and more students every year. They may complain about the food, but if students think twice they’ll realize that they’re eating some of the best institutional cuisine in the country. Furthermore, Dining Service catering has become a major operation, providing dozens of students with valuable work opportunities. Pritchard’s management of the College Laundry deserves some commendation, too: no longer is the College required to support the Laundry as a money-losing operation. The cleaning operation will break even this year, taking the first step along a road to lower costs and higher-quality service.

Most of all, Carleton Pritchard is accessible: If you see him around and ask him a question, he’s more than happy to have a word or two with you. He makes a point of carefully considering student opinions and needs. That’s why he’s building the grocery store. Put simply, he’s one of those “great things” about Davidson that we’re always trying to identify. We congratulate him on his successes.

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from its readers. The editors will try to print all letters dealing with subjects of general interest to the campus community, but they must adhere to the following guidelines:

- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected publication date.
- Letters must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept letters submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SSI WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS (MS-DOS) text file format.
- All letters should be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names to be printed with their letters.
- Due to the constraints of space, the editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter over 300 words in length.
- The editors reserve the right not to print letters which contain inside jokes, off-color slurs, or advertisements, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- Writers should include an address and a phone number with their submissions.
- Writers should address their letters “To the Editors.”

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian.Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Ash Ashannudin, Russell Booker, Suzanne Craymer, Michael Dean, Glenn Fogle, Jennifer Hoffmann, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Bill Scouten, Andy Thompson, Anthony McCarron, Kathryn Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Production Staff: Helen Bowman, Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen Hull, Se-Hoon Oh, Bowe Strickland, Susan Majors.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Bill Carrell, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation.

Letters to the Editor:

In the last issue of The Davidsonian, the writers of the “MacLads” article suggested alternate activities for people without homecoming dates. One of these suggestions for women was to join the confidential eating disorders group. Although we assume this was intended as a joke, it implies that fat girls don’t get dates to homecoming. Some women are trying to lose weight to feel better about themselves. A few of these women feel forced, for one reason or another, to go to extremes which have led to serious psychological and physiological problems. The confidential eating disorders group was formed to help these women overcome their problems; making fun of that group in a public forum doesn’t help a serious situation improve. In fact, it can make it much worse. How secure do you expect these women to feel now?

Sincerely,
Sarah Bayne and Sarah Johnson

Roses

To the Editors:

As co-chairmen of PAX’s Homecoming Rose Sale this year, we would like to express our appreciation to all the people who put in time and effort to make it a success. We made a profit of $966.50 which will go toward Home Missions in Davidson. The money is used mainly to help pay heating costs for Davidson’s elderly. Again, thanks to all of you who bought roses, and special thanks to the great people who helped wrap and deliver them Saturday morning.

Lara Glenn
Ginny White

Grocery

Dear Editors:

It seems to me that the decision to put a grocery store into the Union Cafe may have been made a bit hastily. As was mentioned in the article on the downtown revitalization plan in last week's issue, attracting new businesses to the area is a key aspect of planned growth for the community. While I don’t think that having a small store in the Cafe would necessarily threaten away any potential occupants of Food Lion’s old facilities, I expect that the arrival of a new supermarket would cut considerably into grocery sales in the Cafe. I think it’s great that we're finally going to have a place on campus where we can make small purchases on the spur of the moment. Inevitably, however, students are going to go the extra distance down the road in order to buy some necessities which won't be available in the cafe-store (beer, for one). If a new supermarket does move into the space occupied by the Food Lion, students are most likely going to pick up other items while shopping for these essentials, especially if prices in the Cafe aren’t competitive or if there isn’t much of a variety to choose from. Will the costs incurred by altering the Cafe be borne out if something like this happens, and is it all going to be worth it anyway?

Jon Boles