Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, February 6, 1987

Junior Jeff Himes in flight 4 mainly on the issue of the need for

Homosexuality forum addresses student problems
By SUSAN PEARSALL

You put your various belongings down in the hall and open up the door to your room. Your roommate and
his high school ‘buddy’ are in bed together and the visitor is decidedly not of the opposite sex. What do
you do? Should you move out and leave no forwarding address?

This scenario was a part of the Campus Forum Committee’s panel discussion on homosexuality held last Wednesday in the 900
Room. The discussion, attended by approximately 70 students and faculty members, focused on the issue of the need for homosexuals
to be accepted by society.

The discussion was partially prompted by the alarming rise in incidents of assault on homosexuals by AIDS-fearing homophobes. This trend,
according to panelist Diana Travis, a gay rights activist and member of Closetbusters, greatly accentuates the generally deplorable position of
gays in society. Other panel members were John, the director of the Gay and Lesbian Switchboard, Joe Flora, Presbyterian Campus
Minister at UNC-Greensboro, and David, a graduate student of Religion at Wake Forest.

Panelists were completely in agreement with the view that one need not condone homosexuality in order to have a tolerant
(or at least humane) attitude toward gays. The discussion emphasized similarities between the civil rights movement and the gay rights
movement in that in both cases prejudice had been built up merely from disinformation or vague ideals from society. All
panelists stated, one doesn’t choose to be gay any more than one chooses to be black. No one asked the
blacks to become white, but many people still think that they need to “convert” gays to heterosexuality. “Au contraire,” state
homosexuals, “gay is O.K.” Not only does God love homosexuals equally but also gays are good people just as “straights”
are. John and Ms. Travis explained that they stopped feeling the stigma of “deviance” when they allowed their high self-images
to persuade them that there is nothing at all wrong with their sexual preference.

Continued to page 2

Freshmen reveal views on Self-Selection decision
By JIM DILLON

With Self-Selection coming up next Friday, freshmen are finally making decisions regarding which Patterson Court house to join if they
join, and houses are anticipating freshmen candidates. Currently, 589 of 1017 upperclassmen are affiliated with eating houses on Patterson Court.
Most of the freshmen males are traditionally joining fraternities, according to freshman Eric Crowley, who plans to join Pi Kappa
Alpha.

“I think the vast majority of people are joining eating houses,” Crowley said, “and almost all of the guys are
joining fraternities. My roommate is dead set against them though.”

Freshman Susan Pearsall said although most of the males are joining fraternities, many are choosing to join Kappa Sigma rather
than a fraternity currently on Patterson Court. “The guys are all going with ‘frats, but a lot are interested in
Kappa Sig,” Pearsall said. “They think the whole thing is real stereotyped and don’t want to have anything to do
with it.”

Freshman Chip Allen, recently elected to the executive council of the Kappa Sigma interest group, says many freshmen will join
Kappa Sigma because they are dissatisfied with the fraternities currently on the court. “I’m interested in Kappa Sig mainly because
I met some of those people pretty early on,” Allen said. “For me, I’m just pretty individualistic. I just refused
to do the brown-nosing you had to do at all the other frats. You didn’t have to do that there.
The people who are joining Kappa Sig are probably people that are turned off from other fraternities. I'm sort of
wondering what it’s going to be like.”like next year, whether it’s going to be like all the other fraternities.” Allen
said he thinks last year’s freshman class was unusual in the number choosing to remain independent, but he expects more
of this year’s freshmen to join eating houses. “From what I’ve heard, we’re more traditional,” Allen said. “A lot more
people will be getting into fraternities.”

Most freshman girls are choosing to join Rusk, according to freshmen Melissa Carr and Pearsall. “I think a great majority
of the girls are going Rusk,” Carr said. “Not so many are going Warner Hall or Spencer. There are a
lot of people wavering between Warner Hall and Rusk though because they’re worried about getting wait-listed at Rusk, and they
don’t want to be independent next year. Most of the Spencer girls are pretty definite.”

“Almost everyone wants to join Rusk,” Pearsall, who plans to join Spencer, said. “Rusk has a really good reputation, but
I think that most of the girls who aren’t going Rusk are going to join Spencer.” Pearsall said she expects
Rusk and Spencer to receive substantial numbers of freshmen girls. She said Warner Hall, PAX, and Emanon will not receive
very many. “I know there are girls who want to join Warner Hall, but there aren’t that many. As for
PAX and Emanon, I've heard that a lot of people want to join PAX, but I don’t know anyone joining
Emanon. I think PAX has a better reputation because it has so many events, especially with the study breaks every
week,” Pearsall said.

Senior Mike Stephens, treasurer of Emanon, said unless Emanon gets a substantial number of freshmen it is likely that the
house will be forced to close. “I really don’t have any idea how many people we’ll end up getting,” Stephens
said. “We’ve had, over the course of the last quarter and a half, 35 to 40 people down to eat
with us, but it’s difficult to gauge other than that. We're confident that we'll get at least seven or eight
for sure, but beyond that we can’t tell. We need more than we’ll get though. Emanon really needs to have
25 persons. Speaking as treasurer of this house, when you open an eating house, you've got three strikes. When you
get one bad year, you're hurting; two strikes, and you’re hurting worse. We’ve had two bad years in self-selection. One
more, and we’re out. There’s just no two ways about it.”

PAX president Holly Sparks said she is expecting a “good turnout” in this year’s Self-Selection process. Sparks said that although
Emanon may be forced to close next year, co-ed eating will not die out at Davidson. Regarding the recent decline
in the number of students joining co-ed houses, Sparks said: “I think there are a lot of factors influencing that.
There used to be five co-ed houses, but then the Commons opened up, and I think there are still a
lot of people eating co-ed, but they’re choosing not to do it in a small atmosphere. We’re sorry about what
may happen to Emanon, but we don’t feel that being the only co-ed house is going to hurt us.”

Freshman Ismat Husain, who plans to join PAX, says he expects that PAX will get a good number of freshmen
to join, and he expects most will be girls. “Most of the guys definitely want to join fraternities,” Husain said.
“I think the reason is that the co-ed houses are decent houses. I’m not really a party animal. Most guys
want the fraternities for the parties because they like to get drunk and party.”
