Inside Art returns, pages 8-9

The Davidsonian, Volume LXXVIII, No. 8
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday

Davidson basketball claws to top in first two matches
By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

Over the Thanksgiving holidays, the Davidson basketball team posted two impressive victories over the Irish National Team and Erskine (S.C.).
In the exhibition game against the Irish National Team, Davidson won 104-86. The trio of Jeff Himes, All-American candidate Derek
Rucker, and Jay Schmitt accounted for over 60 of Davidson’s points with Himes scoring 26, Rucker 23, and Schmitt 18.
Other notable statistics: Rucker had 6 assists and 3 steals, Himes had 11 rebounds, and Mike Gynn scored 11 points.

For the Irish National Team, Gerald Kennedy, who hails from South Carolina, burned the nets with 40 points. Jeff McKinnon
came in next with 23, and Raymond Lawson chipped in 12. Bob Stevens was a defensive force with 5 blocked
shots.

In the first regular season game of the season, Davidson defeated Erskine 93-67. Rucker and Himes were the only double-digit
scorers for Davidson, but they had a field day; Rucker scored 36 and Himes 30. Dean Keener dished out 8
assists, Rucker had five steals, and Maurice Gray blocked 2 shots.

For Erskine, Chip Schener scored 15 points, Weyling White scored 13, Marcus Scott 10, and Porcher 10. Porcher also effected
5 steals. The upcoming basketball season looks promising; Davidson may very well carry out its third straight 20-win season.

See BALL, page 2

Search is on for new chaplain
By TRIPP HELMS

A search committee has been formed to replace former Chaplain Charlie Summers, who resigned in September. The members of the
committee are: Dean Will Terry, Professors L.R. King and Max Polley, students Sheldon Garmon ’90, Doug Hicks ’90, and Sarah
Merritt ’89, and Davidson College Presbyterian Church (DCPC) representative Jane Avinger. The committee met for the second time Monday to
finalize the list of expectations for the position.

Among these expectations are that the Chaplain “present a vibrant witness to the Christian faith on campus,” “be a pastoral
resource for the students,” and “create a public forum for worship and the discussion of issues facing the community of
faith.” In keeping with the College’s new emphasis on service, he or she will serve as advisor to the Y
Student Service Corps.

An expectation important to the faculty is that the Chaplain “serve both students and faculty by conducting seminars and retreats
relating faith and learning,” says Dean Terry. The new Chaplain will not be a member of the faculty but is
expected to “cooperate with the Department of Religion in its educational role in the college.”

Affiliation with DCPC will be a reinstated role for the chaplain. Chaplains who served before Summers were associate ministers with
the church, but this affiliation was discontinued when he came to Davidson. The new chaplain will be a “pastoral associate”
at DCPC. Although this position will not make the chaplain “answerable” to the church, he or she will have certain
responsibilities including “teaching a class, participating regularly in worship...Ship, and serving as an adviser to the Westminster Fellowship.” A Masters
of Divinity degree is required for the position. “A Ph.D. would be a plus,” according to Terry, “but other things
such as the candidate’s style, qualities, energy, and ability to relate to the students and faculty are more important.” The
committee is now establishing a list of candidates for the position. Some candidates have called and expressed an interest, and
others have been recommended by seminary presidents and other individuals. There is no official timetable for the search, but Terry
hopes to have a new chaplain hired by the end of winter term or the beginning of spring term. When
the committee reviews all of the candidates, they will make a recommendation to President Kuykendall who has the final say
in the hiring decision. Dean Terry said that committee members are not the only people involved in the search and
approval process. More students and faculty members will be consulted before the recommendation is made.

Davidson's Jay Schmitt shoots against the Irish Nationals

Sports Information

By SUSAN PEARSALL

Dean of Students Will Terry and a committee of faculty members and students have announced Davidson’s nominees for the 1987-88
Thomas J. Watson Fellowship Program. David Ethridge, Clara Broniec, Reed Herrero, and Helen Bowman have been chosen to compete for
the prestigious Watson Fellowships, grants worth about $11,000, which are awarded to 75 graduating seniors each year. Davidson is one
of fifty colleges and universities nominating candidates to the Watson Foundation, which has awarded 1,305 grants since 1968. The program
itself is described as one which “enables students of unusual promise to engage in a year of independent study and
travel abroad,” and attempts to provide a “time in which [graduates] might explore with thoroughness a particular interest... and develop
a more informed sense of international concern.” The independent study must involve a specific project in a field which the
student chooses, and cannot involve extended study at a university or in the U.S. alone.

Watson nominees selected

In order to win a nomination from Davidson’s Watson Selection Committee, applicants had to make an oral presentation of their
proposed projects and endure two interviews with the committee. The “final four” then sent the Watson Foundation a copy of
their proposals for a review. Proposals generally include an outline of the student’s plans for utilizing the grant money and
a statement of his reasons for wanting to undertake this project. According to Foundation literature, the project “should be one
which may be pursued with great independence and adaptability... [it] should be personally significant, imaginative, and feasible.” The trustees of
the Watson Foundation judge the applications in terms of the students’ integrity, intelligence, leadership, and potential in their respective fields.
They also consider the applicants’ academic records and extracurricular activities which relate to their fields of interest. A representative then
interviews each candidate.

See WATSON, page 2
