Friday, April 24, 1987  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mark Chen, Keith Finch, Editors  
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, John Gathings, Editors Emeriti  
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor  
David Williams, Associate Editor  
John Wightman, Business Manager  
John Barrow, Jim Dillon, News Editors  
Tom Moore, Features Editor  
Sudeep Sen, Inside Art Editor  
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors  
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor  
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor  
Jeff Loser, Brian Moure, Advertising Managers  
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager  
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor  

Division I blues

The resignation of Coach Greer came as a shock to many people. Greer was happy at Davidson and obviously had succeeded in building a great baseball program. Perhaps that was his problem, and that is why we should not have been surprised by his departure. After seasons with 3-25 records, he made Davidson into a powerhouse without scholarships, paid assistant coaches, or big-time media exposure. With that kind of winning touch, Greer was bound to be recruited by another school. His departure simply shows up the problem that Davidson has in all its varsity sports. We are too small for ambitious and talented coaches. Lefty Driesell coached Davidson to national recognition, then left when we could do no more. Terry Holland briefly stayed at Davidson before moving on to Virginia. These past few weeks, Coach Hussey had interviews with a number of schools. Though he decided to stay, other schools may offer their temptations in the future. This process will continue for any coach who succeeds at Davidson.

What can Davidson do about this problem? Nothing at all, so long as we continue our commitment to Division I. Our athletic program places unique demands on any coach who takes a job here. Except in basketball, he must recruit without offering scholarships. He must also get athletes who can meet our academic standards. He must extol the virtues of a small town and college to athletes who come from the big city. Most of the time, his opposition will have none of these handicaps. In sum, a Davidson coach must hunt for a Greek and monastic ideal every time he goes on a recruiting trip. His work is not over even after the player’s signature. Next, a coach must make sure that a player stays with the team until he graduates. But once a student faces the demands of athletic competition and academic work, he often makes a choice. For many students I know, that choice is to quit the team. Their grades will affect them in the real world far more than the final score. Or else they decide to transfer, fed up with the demands and longing for more opportunities than Davidson provides. The result is a constant attrition which saps many of our varsity sports.

This imbalance between our athletic goals and our resources leads to absurd inequities. Basketball may be our showcase sport, but only men’s basketball exists. The football team hopes to keep 100 players out of only 1300 students. Many sports are maintained simply for the conference af-- Filiation, not because of student interest. Their players receive little notice for their sacrifices, and few victories. Fairness might suggest that all of our varsity sports should offer scholarships, or at least have a paid staff. Instead, we ask for more sacrifices to the Davidson tradition. Probably our only claim to uniqueness is our commitment to Division I. We must be the only small college in the country which competes with the powers that be. Even in the Southern Conference, those opponents can be very tough. Now there are suggestions that we might schedule DePaul and other independents. By staying in Division I, we leave ourselves only three choices. One, we could commit ourselves to some sports and let the others survive as they can. Two, we could dilute our resources into all our sports and win in none of them. Three, we could quadruple our endowment and quintuple our student body. At that point, we could become a subsidiary campus of Duke.

There is one possibility which I have not mentioned. We could increase our resources in the athletic program. But that choice would raise the question of priorities. Unless some fabulous gift comes to Davidson, we would have to deemphasize some parts of our school in order to emphasize another. We would not have settled the question of what Davidson is and where we should be. Only a few things are sure about that puzzle. Davidson may be a Swarthmore, but we will never be Notre Dame.

Cloudt’s view ©\67

THE (AN a sos

SO NEXT TIME MOM SPANKS ME, I'M CALLIN’ AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL ‘CAUSE THEY SEZ NO ONE SHOULD EVER EVER EVER BE TORTURED! NOT EVEN CARTOONISTS SHOULD BE TORTURED FOR SPEAKING THEIR MINDS...

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsey Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, George Kurani, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Nelle McCorkle, Susan Pearsall, David Petranick.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Jennifer Hoffman, Diana Miller, Michele Miller, Florence Snively.

Sports Staff: Ken Bogert, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Matt Newsom, Bruce Sarkisian, Susan Wilkins.

Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, Matt Yaun.

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Michael Schill.

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Lara Glenn, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszezak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strickland, Diana Titus-Allen, Sarah Whitesell.

Circulation Staff: Laura Dodenhoff, Emilie Sebesta.