Continued from page 12

repressing was entirely unrepressed. She felt bold, and she liked feeling that way. It had been very unlike her to leave the boy like she did, and that was invigorating and exciting. She smiled just thinking about the morning as she sat in her office behind her desk. The phone rang, and that jolted Adriene Sykes. For a moment, she had been in something of a trance, not really there in the present but almost dreamily re-living a past incident that had happened as recently as this morning, and then the phone ringing, such a trivial thing, had startled her. She watched the first button on the phone light up with the sound.

“Miss Sykes?” It was the voice of her secretary who everyone just loved and talked about. They were always telling Adriene Sykes what a wonderful secretary she was.

“Miss Sykes?”

“I can’t take this call right now, Mary. I'm busy.”

“It’s your son.” A pause.

“I’m busy. Ask him to call back in twenty minutes or so.”

“Yes, Miss Sykes.” She sounded submissive. Adriene Sykes could tell that Mary was at least a little appalled. The way Mary always said Miss with a special emphasis, especially in regard to her son, always annoyed her. She could almost hear her saying, “But he could be hurt.” People didn’t generally say those things to Adriene Sykes though. They knew it would have no effect on her. She was a rock, but those things, whether she heard them or not, did have an effect on her, and it angered her to think that her secretary considered her a bad mother or some such nonsense. She was coping with it in the best way she could, and for the moment that was not coping with it. She glanced at the framed picture of William that sat on her desk. Her lip slipped up her cheek on the right side of her face in a small and unusual way, in a way that only Adriene Sykes could. It was a kind of a wince, but Adriene Sykes always tried to look composed and refined, and her face looked crooked as if there were too many conflicting emotions in it. The boy was grinning in the picture, and though she thought it undignified, she liked the picture, but it was with a strange and austere bitterness that she liked it.

“William said he is fine. He was just worried about you. Isn’t that nice?”

“Yes, thank you, Mary.” Adriene Sykes hated her secretary. She was so nice, so very nice. Maybe it was just that everyone else liked her that made Adriene Sykes hate her, but she did, or maybe it was just that she had the secret desire to hate someone for some inner reason that no one else could see, but Adriene Sykes couldn’t really see it either. She wanted to, and she hated her secretary anyway, but she couldn’t say why. Maybe she really didn’t hate her secretary although she tried very hard to, but she thought that today when she received the phone call from the boy that she hated her secretary, and she smiled.

“Miss Sykes, you are all right, aren’t you?”

“Oh, are you still there? Yes, I'm fine. If my son calls again, put it through.” But what would she say, she suddenly wondered. This was difficult. The boy knew that something was strange, and Adriene Sykes felt it too. She always had the appearance of utter and steadfast confidence, but she was really very frail. Today was different though. She knew she was capable of whatever she decided to do. And very suddenly, Adriene Sykes knew what it was. She knew what she would do, and tonight she would do it. It was perfect. She was surprised that she had not thought of it before. Maybe she was not confident enough of herself before to be capable of such a thing, but today she was. She slowly opened her top desk drawer. Her eyes were wide open as if she were uncovering some horrible secret, but it was a wonderful secret. It was absolutely perfect. Her lip made her face wince, not quite as much as it did when she looked at the picture of the boy, but it was the same wince. It was just less of a wince, and Adriene Sykes’ face looked different. She had the look of a mad killer, as if she were pulling out a knife to stab another victim, but she merely pulled out a small, ripped sheet of paper with a phone number on it.

Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

With the same mad expression she reached for the phone and dialed the number. She sat forward, on the verge of attack.

“Could I speak to Jake please?” It had all happened so quickly and so long ago, and it was dark, and Adriene Sykes had been so nervous that she could hardly remember what he looked like. She remembered hating him the whole time. He was so vulgar and crude for doing such a thing, but she was the one who had initiated the offer. Maybe she was just as vile as he, but she was doing it for a good reason, for the boy, for William. She looked around her bedroom as she quickly brushed a comb through her hair. It had happened there. She had thought about going somewhere else just so she wouldn’t have to look at that room every day, but Adriene Sykes had succumbed to convenience, and it had happened in her own home. And now he was coming back. Adriene Sykes began to regret the phone call she’d made earlier that day. She began to think it wouldn't work, but it all depended on him, on that vile man. He had served his purpose the first time. He would do so again. With that thought, she tried to put all doubt from her mind, and that was difficult for Adriene Sykes, but to the boy who had come to the door moments before, staring, she looked as if she had no doubt.

“You looked worried, but now you look fine,” he said. It was amazing how well the boy understood her, just by looking at her. Maybe the boy just said she looked fine because it was obvious that she was trying to look good, brushing her hair. No, he could tell, she was sure, or at least she thought she was sure. It pleased her to think that the boy,William might be able to read into people’s thoughts just by looking at them, and she smiled, but the room was silent. It was an uncomfortable silence between the mother and son, one that mothers and sons did not usually have, one that occurred when people hardly knew each other. But this silence occurred because the boy knew his mother all too well, and the mother did not know her son at all. Adriene Sykes looked up to say something, but the boy was gone, and that made her worry again. She could not tell if the evening was going to go well. She had the sudden thought that what she was attempting might totally destroy the boy, that he might become totally reclusive. He could actually hate her for it. The thought that the boy might hate her had never before crossed Adriene Sykes’ mind. She was so meticulous, so extremely careful with him that she had never thought about that, and it puzzled her. That it was a distinct possibility was both awful and wonderful. She almost wanted the boy to hate someone or something, or to get angry, and maybe even yell and scream just once like other children. But William's temper would be different because he would be upset and angry about something that mattered and something that other children would never perceive or even understand if it were explained to them, and that was wonderful. But Adriene Sykes didn’t know if she could stand the boy hating her, and it might very much upset her to hear the boy screaming at her. But maybe the boy, William, would not hate her and instead hate the man, that vile man, and Adriene Sykes very much liked the idea of William having a tantrum over Jake, at Jake, and telling him how vile and disgusting he was. She had always wanted to, but something in her always prevented her, or just stopped the thought from ever becoming a real possibility. It was as if she never considered it although somehow in some nearly subconscious way she wanted to very much, but the boy would do it. It would be better if he did it. This new thought made her more nervous about the evening, and a single drop of sweat dripped off of Adriene Sykes’ forehead and down her face, and she never sweated. She wasn't even warm, but she didn't wipe it off. She stared in the mirror and watched it make its way down her cheek and onto her chin. From there she couldn't see where it went, and she couldn’t feel it anymore.

The clock said it had been hours since Adriene Sykes had gotten ready although she didn’t really know how long it had been. She and William had been sitting, facing one another, but saying nothing for a long time, and she could tell that the boy had been quite aware of how long it had been, and she didn’t know if she liked that or not. Nevertheless, he had said nothing. The man, Jake, was late though. Adriene Sykes had been staring off at a distance, avoiding eye contact with the boy, when she glanced at the clock, realizing that the man was more than two hours late, and she began to think he might not show up. Somehow she knew that there was no flat tire; there was no sudden death in the family. Adriene Sykes simply knew somehow that he was not coming. She wondered why the man had chosen not to. Their experience together had been very businesslike. She had posed no unusual circumstances for the man. She had lied. She had told him that she was using birth control. He had rudely asked what method she used. She had been prescribed birth control pills for a medical condition at one time and knew enough to say that she was “on the pill” since that was the expression they always used, but she was lying about taking them at the time. After all, that would have destroyed the whole purpose of their encounter.

“Is he coming?” The boy had interrupted her thoughts. He was almost too direct, too simple, but Adriene Sykes was wondering the same thing herself.

“No, I don't think he is.” She was still perplexed by his absence. He had said he would come, just for dinner, because she needed to talk to him and because she had someone she thought he should meet. Had he guessed what she was talking about, she wondered. How could he know? He couldn't know, she decided. He wasn't perceptive, and he couldn't have understood anything even remotely complicated by deception. But why would he turn down a free dinner? He should have known that she would take him somewhere nice. He knew that she had money. She lived in a very nice house, and she could afford him. He could at least have figured that out, but that only confused her more. Why, then, hadn't he come? The expression on her face changed though. That wince that always accompanied her chance insights into other people and their feelings slowly became apparent on her face. Adriene Sykes had never once considered the possibility that the man, Jake, had been different, that he’d been even the smallest bit unlike the masses with whom she chose to identify him. He didn’t know anything about what she'd done, she was sure, but somehow he knew not to come. Maybe somehow he'd had some insight, some small thought that didn't necessitate intellect but feelings. Maybe somehow, somehow almost subconsciously, he’d realized that his encounter with Adriene Sykes was different from all the others, and that encounter was best left alone, as it happened, because what had happened was different. This was an amazing thought to Adriene Sykes, and she looked directly at the boy, at William.

“I'm very hungry,” he said.

“I don’t think we'll be going out to dinner. Go fix yourself something to eat.”

The boy got up and walked toward the kitchen. He turned in the doorway, looking somewhat confused.

“What?” he asked.

“I don’t know. Be creative.”

The boy still looked confused, but he accepted the answer, and he would make something. Adriene Sykes could hear him in the kitchen, the sound of the refrigerator opening, the silverware clanging as that drawer opened and closed. She was no longer wincing, but grinning as she thought of the boy, William, and the man, Jake, and how maybe that small instinct, that little insight into things that had made the man decide not to come was William's too. Her grin became a smile, and Adriene Sykes got up to join her son in the kitchen.