= October 2, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN:

Davidson welcomes new classics and art professors

By TRIPP HELMS

Michael Toumazou

Davidson’s newest classics professor Michael Toumazou does not just read about archaeological data; he finds it himself. For the past five years, Toumazou, originally from Famagusta, Cyprus, has participated in archaeological digs on mainland Greece and Cyprus.

Toumazou first came to the United States as a high school foreign exchange student. After spending a required two years in the army of Cyprus, he returned to the U.S. and went to Franklin Marshall College. There he completed his bachelor’s degree in physics and classics.

He went on to Loyola University in Chicago where he got a master’s degree in Greek. He completed his degree work at Bryn Mawr College with a master’s degree in archaeology and a doctorate in classics and archaeology. Toumazou married in Pennsylvania. He and his wife have two children by her previous marriage — John, aged 15 and James, aged 13 — and have a daughter Katie, aged 60 months. Toumazou enjoys photography, skin diving, fishing, and personal computing when he is not participating in his favorite hobby, archaeology. He is a member of the Greek Orthodox Church, and has been active in scouting, CROP, and fundraising for refugees in Cyprus.

For Toumazou, life in Davidson is much like life in Cyprus — “slower and less hectic than in New England.” Because he has been a full-time student for the last fourteen years, he feels very close to the students and looks forward to working with them and getting to know them better. In the near future, Toumazou hopes to take a few interested students on an excavation with him.

Nina Serebrennikov

For Davidson’s newest art professor Nina Serebrennikov, “art history is an exciting field to be in right now” and she shares that excitement with her students.

Serebrennikov was originally interested in literature, not art. She spent a year in Paris studying French literature in 1967 and 1968. Her interest in art was first evident when she found that she was “spending more time in the Louvre than in the library,” she says.

She did not immediately begin to study art, however. Serebrennikov finished her work in literature, and then completed a master’s degree in library science. She became a librarian, first working in the Folger Library in Washington, D.C., her home city, and later at Duke University.

Serebrennikov later decided to complete a Ph.D. in art history at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She did most of her research in Brussels, Belgium, where she studied the sixteenth-century artist Bruegel. “As Rabelais is said to have been ‘drunk with words,’ Bruegel is drunk with figures, using very many in his paintings,” explains Serebrennikov. Bruegel’s “drunkenness with figures” is the subject of her dissertation which is going to be turned into a book.

Before coming to Davidson, Serebrennikov was a professor at Ohio State University where she taught classes of as many as 250 students. She enjoys Davidson because “instead of teaching 250 students in a required course, I am teaching classes of twenty-five who are taking the course because they are interested in learning about art.”

Tonsure

Nexus
Redkin

25% off all services for the month of October beginning September 28th.

Coming in next week's issue: a job hunting concept that can change your life.

Watch For It.

Haircuts Waxing
Perms Manicuring
Color

—892-1933—

Suntan Booth Special

$3.00 per session
$35.00 one month unlimited visits

Braiding

Located 1 mile south of campus on Hwy. 115 in Cornelius.

“Let us be your connection to great pizza!"

Mon. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. Sun. 4:30 - 11:00 p.m.

After 9 p.m. SPECIAL Monday - Thursday

12 in. with 3 toppings - $6.50
16 in. with 3 toppings - $7.75

- not including extra cheese -

Delivering to Davidson College Free