10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mark Chen, Keith Finch, Editors
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, John Gathings, Editors Emeriti
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
David Williams, Associate Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, Jim Dillon, News Editors
Tom Moore, Features Editor
Sudeep Sen, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Jeff Loser, Brian Moure, Advertising Managers
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Student concerns: There is dust gathering in the Davidsonian mailbox. The past week went by without any response to the
stories we ran in the last issue or the one before. On the other hand, students and faculty have gotten
involved with other debates. Posters from both conservative and liberal sides have gone up about Nicaragua and the Contras. Anti-apartheid
protestors have been keeping up a vigil on the steps of Chambers. Amnesty International has an opinion on these pages
about their work and future plans. Everywhere we turn, there is some national or international protest. Which brings to mind
the comment of Will Rogers: He noted that Americans are the most concerned people in the world, that they will
send a commission to any problem on the globe. Petitions keep circulating, placards stand out, and we get bombarded with
the Communist or right-wing threats to our existence. At least if you look at all the flyers on campus, you
might say that we’re obsessed with international problems.

But perhaps this concern means less than it appears. Davidson seems curiously divided. Some people organize and get involved in
the national issues. Some people mostly drudge through the classes and then head out to the Court or farther on
weekends. And then there are people who organize for SGA weekend or Union activities. We each get wrapped up in
our own concerns, be they international or personal. We’re all following an agenda. What is missing from this mixture of
interests is a concern about Davidson itself. There are a number of small (and not so small) changes and policy
shifts which have raised no protests. Tom Jennings and Will Terry have made “experimental” housing changes over a faculty retreat,
and quietly dropped the changes on our heads. I know that a number of fine lofts and accommodations will be
ruined by the shifts, but people don’t seem too upset. Tuition is going up, but that has generated no protests.
Even the possible departure of Coach Hussey has not disturbed the waters. The letter on these pages raises even more
troubling issues. The problem of minorities raises the whole question of Davidson and our Southern heritage. And we still have
that ratio, decided by some occult rationale, that Davidson should be 60% male and 40% female. Davidson hangs on stubbornly
to some traditions.

It would not be fair to blame the administration for everything. They are a good set of people with good
intentions. However, they are administrators above all and cherish efficient operation. If changes can be made or neglected without any
problems from students or the faculty, then that constitutes efficiency. So long as the ship is moving smoothly through the
waters, the destination does not have to be a concern of the passengers. The captain and his crew are busy
men, and do not need added hassles. Meanwhile, the passengers stay below decks. Some play cards, others order drinks from
the bar, and some dance. In one corner they talk about apartheid and a far-off land at the Cape of
Good Hope. At another table, members who favor elephants discuss obscure political alignments in the next two years. They are
also obsessed with Communists in an area about the same size and land value as swampland in Florida. Nobody is
looking out the portholes.

Perhaps we are all escaping from the problems of Davidson. We find it easier to hole up in our private
worlds.of concern or pleasure. Sometimes I am not sure that there is a Davidson. Too many people around me speak
about Davidson with bitterness and regret. We have endless factional and cliquish quarrels. Isn’t there some common concern, some meeting
place for all of us?

Friday, April 3, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Dear President Kuykendall,

Not too long ago, I received my Davidson Sesquicentennial calendar. While I am pleased about this significant event in Davidson’s
history, I am very concerned about the image of Davidson that was portrayed in the calendar.

The calendar’s self-description as being “one perspective of the campus” was certainly accurate. It portrayed Davidson as consisting almost entirely
of white men. White men were featured in every single photograph of people, except one. Of the ten photographs of
people in the calendar, six of them consisted entirely of white men. White women were pictured in three of the
ten photographs, but were always outnumbered by white men. The only minority pictured in the entire calendar, male or female,
student or faculty member, was one picture of a black basketball player. A rough count showed that there were approximately
five white women, thirty-two white men, and the aforementioned single minority student pictured. This conveys a clear message that Davidson
is a school primarily of, and for, white men.

Unfortunately, I can’t say that this is entirely inconsistent with my experience there. There are still too few women students
and faculty and far too few minority students and faculty at Davidson. And there is often too little support or
encouragement to change that. Still, there has been some progress at Davidson that this calendar does not even attempt to
represent. You would never know, for instance, that Davidson is one-third female, that there are any female or minority professors,
that there are any black women or other minority students at all, or any black men who don’t play basketball.

It concerns me that so little attention was paid to including women and racial minorities when this “celebratory” calendar was
compiled. I am afraid that this is indicative of a pervasive neglect of women and minorities at Davidson. It makes
me wonder if I have a share in this Davidson we are celebrating.

Sincerely,
Aurie T. Hall
Class of 1981

To the Editors,

Your article on “Harvard Crimson” was great. Progress yes but not at any price. “Davidson College is a way of
life, based on the things of the mind, tempered by manners and morality.” A traditionalist.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsey Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, George Kurani,
Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Ray Thornton, David Van-Pelt, Fred Wilson.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Priscilla Faucette, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller.

Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins.

Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Rong Lee, Matt Yaun.

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Lara Glenn, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore,
Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.

Circulation Staff: Laura Dodenhoff, Emilie Sebesta.
