‘Rhodes Scholarships explored, p. 3’

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXVI, Number 11

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, January 9, 1987

Junior Mike Gynn pulls down a rebound against Holy Cross. For specifics on the game and others played over the break, see page 8.

Sports Information

Christmas looters strike J.J. House

By RAY THORTON
As a result of some holiday looting, one ring has been reported missing from Julia Johnston House, according to Jackie Hughes, Director of Public Safety. The house sustained $500 in damages from the forced entry. One radio, a bicycle, and liquor are also gone from the house according to residents, although these losses have not been filed with Hughes’ office.

The intruders entered the house by breaking the glass in an outside door. “Altogether three doors were busted,” Hughes said. “The place was ransacked, as if they were looking for something specific,” he said, noting that valuable items including a computer were left untouched.

Hughes asserted that campus crime is “way down” from previous levels. Aside from the Johnston House theft, Hughes has been made aware of only a few “weird things” being missing from student rooms. These include toothpaste, cassette tapes, and army fatigues.

When asked if campus security would make changes in its system as a result of the Johnston House incident, Hughes replied “none whatsoever,” rejoining that his officers patrol regularly. Hughes cited combination locks on Richardson and Cannon as an attempt to upstep campus security, but maintained that no changes in his office’s operation would occur.

Locks installed in Richardson and Cannon

By LUCIA KENDALL
Locks have been installed on the doors of Richardson and Cannon dorms in order to prevent theft and other security problems. According to Director of Residence Life Tom Jennings, students reported over $30,000 worth of their belongings stolen, including $20,000 worth of larceny from dorm rooms last year. “Almost all the thefts happened when students left the doors to their rooms unlocked,” Jennings said. “I think the only problem we might have with the locks on outside doors is that students might fall into thinking they could leave their room door unlocked and it would be very easy for someone, once inside the building, to take anything. Students should still lock their doors.”

Public Safety Director Jackie Hughes said, “There hasn’t been a really big problem with theft so far this year and many of the incidents were weird. We’ve had several incidents in which a few things were stolen and other more valuable things were left alone.”

Jennings mentioned that although avoiding theft was the primary reason for locking the dorms, preventing an attack or assault on a dorm resident is another purpose of the locks.

The Residence Life Office plans to install locks on the doors of Little and Sentelle by next year and on two more dorms next Christmas. The office wants to secure women’s and mixed dorms first. Knox, Akers, and Irwin had locks installed last year.

The combination style of locks, which locks the door whenever it is closed, was chosen over card systems or keys because of the belief that students wouldn’t want to carry keys or cards with them. Installing electronic systems would have posed mechanical problems. The problem isn’t extreme enough to put guards by the doors, according to Jennings. There are no restrictions on students entering. The locks cost $400 to $500 per door. The combinations will be changed one or two times a year or as needed.

The panic bars that were removed from the doors so that the locks could be installed are not required by the building code, said Hughes, and there is no problem in getting out of the dorm in case of fire or other emergency. Jennings said he hadn’t heard any complaints about the locks, and believes that residents will get used to them quickly. He says they can be annoying, “but they're worth the inconvenience.”

Duke Power building branch

By MARIA DOUGLAS
Duke Power is constructing an office building to house its expanding Davidson branch. The building will be located next to the post office, replacing the old office at 109 Main Street.

Duke Power’s Davidson branch manager John Terry said, “We need the additional space. The new office will be three and a half times the size of our old office.” The additional space will be used to accommodate the growing Davidson community.

Originally the office housed two employees serving about 2,000 customers. Duke Power now employs five workers who serve nearly 5,000 customers.

Construction began in September and is projected to be completed in mid-January.

The Davidson branch provides several services to the community including supplying power for houses, installing safety lights, and reading meters. It also receives payments, takes account orders, and handles customer complaints and inquiries. “Our office does everything a large office does except it does it on a smaller scale,” Terry said.

Its new building will contain a small conference room available to civic clubs and non-profit organizations. A Step Above Shoe Store will probably occupy 109 Main Street after Duke Power vacates.

Inside

Features: Oscar-winning movies show Friday and Saturday — Page 4

Inside Art: Mike Jarmon expounds on life experience — Pages 6, 7

Sports: Davidsonian sportsman of the year announced — Page 8

Trash-throwing at UNCC game elicits an angered response — Page 10