Wednesday, April 15, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Breakdowns plague telephone system

By NELLE MCCORKLE

Telephone overcrowding may force expansion of the college’s existing switchboard system. Three additional trunk lines installed Monday night may temporarily
alleviate the problem, Director of Personnel and Administrative Services Bob Stephenson said. “We’ve outgrown our telephone system,” Stephenson said. Currently,
the college utilizes 400 extensions, the present American Telephone and Telegraph Dimension 400 system’s capacity. The three new lines increase
the number of trunk lines to 21: 12 lines handle incoming calls and nine lines handle outgoing calls.

Recent efforts to unburden the college switchboard caused mistaken call transfers, Stephenson said, including phone calls directed to the College
Union which ended up at the library. Southern Bell attempted to transform telephone lines last month to permit two-way operation;
during the change, the system’s trunk rotary and break-rotary switch missent incoming calls. The difficulty caused Southern Bell to return
all college lines to one-way operation.

Three problem areas emerge under the present system according to Stephenson. He noted inability to add further extensions; difficulty of
reaching the central switchboard; and lack of additional cable pairs connecting Chambers Building to Cunningham Fine Arts building and Johnston
gymnasium. Switchboard Operator Vivian Davis also called the current system insufficient for the college’s needs. “The system is lousy and
could stand a great change... It’s just not able to carry the load that we have,” she said. Weekday peak
usage occurs between 12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m., Davis said; the Union handles calls between 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.

Installed in late 1977, the telephone system accommodated college needs until recently, Stephenson said. “It has just gotten increasingly worse
this last school year,” he said. “Obviously we just have more people trying to contact the college.”

Potential solutions include replacement of the AT&T Dimension 400 system with a larger leased or purchased switchboard. Such a system
could connect college telephones to Davidson’s PRIME computer or to student telephones, Stephenson said. Another possible solution involves installation of
mini-telephone systems connecting the athletic and fine arts departments to Chambers, reducing the number of necessary cable pairs, Stephenson said.
Davis suggested eliminating selected departments’ calls. “My solution would be to give the most frequently called offices their own telephone
numbers,” she said. Davis cited Admissions and Alumni/Annual Fund offices, the athletic department, and the Union.

A new switchboard could be operating during the 1988-89 academic year, Stephenson said. “I see this next year as being
one of just kind of holding things together the best way we can in order to stay afloat until a
new system is installed,” he stated. “Replacing the existing system will cost approximately $500,000,” Stephenson said. Incorporating student telephone lines
into the main system could reduce the college’s cost while decreasing student telephone bills, Stephenson said. Cost of a new
switchboard constitutes a capital expense to be paid by a specific grant or a capital funds campaign, Vice President for
Business and Finance Robert S. Sutton said. An independent telephone consultant is now examining the college’s needs. Director of Computer
Services Center John Casey and Stephenson will review this consultant’s report and may recommend a particular system to President John
Kuykendall, Vice President for Academic Affairs Robert Williams, and Sutton. The Board of Trustees must then approve any proposed major
capital expense.

Continued from page 1

liberal arts in a civilized society?

Williams: I think the liberal arts give us perspective and breadth. They let us understand a lot of complex areas
of life, and I think they enable us to weigh and act on the basis of a barrage of information
that comes at us daily. They enable us to be selective and to make judgments. Also, to some degree, there
is an ethic of service about the liberal arts. The liberal arts ideal is not merely just to be educated,
but to be educated for some purpose. I think it is true that the liberal arts enable us to approach
new problems that we have never seen before and to grapple with them. By being exposed to a whole range
of approaches to knowledge and to life in general, you have balance, you have breadth, and you have the capacity
to respond to situations and to renew yourself.

Davidsonian: Some people make the criticism that Davidson is isolated from the “real world,” that students are studying subjects that
have no direct relevance to modern society, and that the atmosphere of the college is simply unrealistic. How would you
respond to this criticism?

Williams: I think partly, it’s not true. Certainly, there are areas, having to do with technology or international studies, where
clearly what’s being studied here is directly related to what’s going on in the world around us. I think the
sad commentary is on the real world, not on Davidson. Right at the heart of Davidson are questions of ethics
and value that ought to be part of the real world. All you have to do is to look at
Washington these days to see what is missing. What is missing is any sense of ethics. At Davidson, there is
a moral sensibility, which is partly due to the church relationship but is also partly due to the liberal arts.
As far as the notion of value — that not everything can be quantified, but that some things are of
value and that you can get at those things through literature, through the arts — some of that seems to
me to be terribly important in the real world. And its absence in the real world is less a negative
comment on Davidson than on the real world.

Davidsonian: The trustees and the administration seem now to have a strong commitment to furthering the “national reputation” of Davidson.
What changes do you see necessary for the achievement of this goal?

Williams: Davidson already has, in a sense, a national reputation. But that reputation is one of being the best liberal
arts college in the Southeast. I would like to see us being thought of as one of the best liberal
arts colleges in the country.That is not to reject our regional base, because I think the regional inheritance is vital
to what Davidson is. It would be criminal to give up the traditional strengths and the inheritance of Davidson in
some grasp for imagined national stature. On the other hand, I do aspire to recruiting, retaining, and developing the best
possible faculty that we can, and that means faculty who are teachers, scholars, and good citizens. I keep trying to
tell the faculty that I see research and professional activity as a crucial ingredient in good teaching, rather than a
diversion from it. I think that unless you have the quality of mind and the drive to test your ideas
against those of your peers through publication, through scholarship, through creative activity, then in a way we don't have any
quality control over what gets taught in the classroom and how it gets taught. So I think national reputation is
not an end, but it’s a consequence of doing something right. I think what we really need to be concerned
about more is the quality of education at Davidson. That means getting the best possible faculty we can. The quality
of the students and the quality of the faculty will determine the quality of the institution.

Davidsonian: In terms of the quality of students, do you believe that the admissions ratio (60 percent male, 40 percent
female), which the trustees have set, limits Davidson’s ability to achieve the highest calibre student body?

Williams: I am against quotas. I was surprised to discover this ratio when I came to Davidson. It seems to
me that we are perhaps unwisely excluding some very talented women. My own preference is that I would like to
see us add modestly to the population of the college over the next few years, and I think the addition
of more women students at Davidson would be a good thing.

Davidsonian: You have implemented new procedures for evaluating the credentials of faculty members for deciding on whether or not to
grant tenure. How are these additional new procedures an improvement over the older procedures?

Williams: Davidson is the only institution I know of where, in the past, when you wanted to promote a faculty
member, you didn’t ask people in the world beyond Davidson what they thought of their work. It was incredible to
me that this wasn’t being done. So all I have basically done is to announce that I am going to
get five letters from outside of Davidson for the evaluation of each faculty member who is up for tenure review.
In other words, if you are looking at an economist, then you want letters from other economists, who can make
a judgment on their abilities as an economist, rather than as a teacher of economics. My argument is that unless
you’re a good economist, you’re not going to be a good teacher of economics. So this indicates that we are
going to be more complete in our review process and that we are going to try to get all the
evidence, and I think frankly that it’s a fuller and fairer evaluation. Unless you do this, you are excluding information
which in most cases can be very favorable.

Davidsonian: What aspects of your position at Davidson have you enjoyed the most so far?

Williams: Basically we are delighted to be at Davidson. I couldn’t be happier with this position at this time. There
are days when it’s not easy. My office is known collectively as the hot seat. It’s the place where some
hard choices and decisions have to be made. But in terms of the ability to play a leadership role in
helping the faculty make some things happen — that’s the exciting, positive part of it. I am also certainly delighted
with the people I have known, both the students and the faculty. There is a lot less abrasiveness that one
can often find in an academic institution. On balance, this is a very positive, thinking faculty.

Davidsonian: And yet there must be some aspects of your job which frustrate you sometimes.

Williams: The “down” side of my position is the frugality side. There never appear to be enough resources to do
what I want to do. Before coming to Davidson, I never really had to watch every penny I spent. I
am not a profligate spender, but there are some desperate needs on this campus that are not being met. My
great hope is that this capital campaign can create a new excitement about Davidson. Also, there is an astounding administrative
workload which I cannot delegate because I have one secretary and 110 faculty, and which takes me away from scholarship
and teaching. I really miss the classroom this year, because I am a born teacher. I hate not to be
teaching, but next year I will be teaching a seminar in Russian intellectual history.

Davidsonian: You have spent a major part of your time in recent months in attempting to forge a consensus among
the faculty on the proposed calendar and curriculum changes, which include the implementation of the early semester system. What will
be the end result of these changes, once implemented?

Williams: I think the end result is going to be a much better learning environment for Davidson, where the faculty
and students will have much more time for learning that will be more significant and more autonomous. I think we
now have a system that focuses on in-class learning. Any person that has directed a thesis or done a term
paper realizes that ten weeks is very short to get into a subject, understand what you want to do, do
the research, and write it up. So a lot of this is about time, changing the temporal context of learning.

Davidsonian: How would you summarize your overall perspective on the college and its future?

Williams: Davidson is a great community. I hope that we can make it even better than it is. It isn’t
a criticism of Davidson to have aspirations to make it even better. At the same time, I think it’s very
important not to lose sight of the values and heritage that have made Davidson the school it is.

Downtown Davidson
MON—THURS. 9-5
Fri. 9-6
