The Davidsonian
Friday, April 24, 1987.

The Seldom Scene, one of the nation’s top progressive bluegrass bands, performs Saturday at 2:30 p.m. on Chambers’ front lawn.
Not pictured above is founding member John Starling ’62, who leads their reunion tour with his return to the group.

Starling, a physician, formed the band in 1971 with four others, and withdrew in 1977 to pursue medicine full time.
He came back to organize their sold-out 15th anniversary show at the Kennedy Center in Washington in 1980, and is
producing an album from the concert. He is the producer of the recently released Trio album featuring Linda Ronstadt, Emmylou
Harris, and Dolly Parton. Talents such as Ricky Skaggs and Linda Ronstadt were launched after playing at festivals and on
albums with the Seldom Scene. The band was so named due to its members’ belief early on that their busy
professional schedules would not let them perform often.

“Progressive” bluegrass is characterized by its move away from bluegrass’ traditional country music orientation and more toward folk music. The
movement is based largely in the Washington, D.C. area, the Seldom Scene’s home.

Warming up for the Seldom Scene will be senior Bobby Houck and a bluegrass group made up of sophomore Molly
Cochran, sophomore Valerie Graves, junior Darek Newby, and senior Jay Wilkins.

JYA Report: French TV and the ever-present libido

By KEITH FINCH

It was early November, and we'd just begun to discover the wonders of French television with our little black-and-white set.
So I wasn’t too surprised when my roommate called out, “Hey, come look at this!” even though it was well
past one o'clock in the morning. I got up and wandered slowly into Mike’s room, muttering to myself.

But I wasn’t ready for what I saw there. The television was tuned to “Canal Plus,” the French pay TV
channel. Scrambled during most of the day (in non-subscribing households), “Canal Plus” usually broadcasts sporting events and second-run American films.
But tonight you could see exactly what was happening on the screen, in lurid detail and in dreadful close-up, despite
all apparent “efforts” at scrambling. And Mike’s face was glued to the set. We both sat in silence, watching.

“Gee,” I said.

“Gosh,” said Mike.

Silence.

“How does she do all that?” I asked.

Silence.

“You know,” Mike said, “it’s a good thing that they only show these sorts of films late at night, when
all the ‘saps’ have gone to sleep.”

The regular broadcasting of films érotiques on French television is just one aspect of a society which seems, at first
glance (and perhaps at the second, third, or hundredth glance as well), to be obsessed with sex. The French media
regularly yanks and claws at the male libido, exposing it to endless visual stimulation until one’s senses of shock and
indignation are finally numbed into submission. Sex sells cheese, champagne, soap, bedsheets, pasta, laundry detergents, horse racing, mineral water, coffee,
frozen dinners, jeans, low-fat milk, washing machines, crackers, and the national lottery.

Our household’s favorite French music video is entitled “Bascule Avec Moi” (“Come Bounce Around With Me”) which features a female
singer doing just that — bouncing around — while completely unencumbered by social niceties like clothes or undergarments. This sort
of stuff comes on TV at around 7:00 every evening, right around dinner time. Bare bosoms loom out of shop
windows, dominating posters for magazines, films, Shakespearean drama, and online computer modem conversation services. (My roommate sometimes hangs out outside
bars on Monday evenings, hoping to “snag” one of the better posters when the workman comes by to change them.)

For an American raised on Puritan values and “Star Trek,” where Captain Kirk’s kissing of the weekly alien bombshell represented
the height of passion, French attitudes towards sex can lead to some embarrassing moments. Reactions to this embarrassment are varied.
Girls from Davidson, for example, tend to show their indignation and disgust for the French media by leaving the room
when males start watching TV commercials. Also, during trips to nearby beaches at Palavas and Carnon, they regularly refuse when
urged to “dress French” (practically all French beaches are topless, and some are bottomless as well). Davidson males, on the
other hand, often take full advantage of the bountiful offerings of French popular culture. In our apartment, for example, the
cry of “cleavage!” can bring people running to the television to see the latest ad for bridal gowns or the
yellow pages. And newly-arrived American males visiting beaches are often criticized for letting their tongues drag in the sand.

The French don’t act like this, though, and that’s why an American’s initial impressions about French attitudes towards sex are
almost universally wrong. The French aren’t sex-crazed; they simply just don’t seem to care. If there are pornographic films on
television, that’s fine, and if songs, films, and magazines all just fly by unresponsive French eyes and ears; sex for
them has lost almost all its shock value. Perhaps that’s why advertisers seem to be increasing their exploitation of sex
in an escalating war for the consumer’s mind, where arsenals are comprised of long-legged models and sexual innuendo. Yet after
a while, it seems, even Davidson fraternity men just seem bored by the whole thing:

“Hey, Mike, is there any American football on the tube tonight?”

“Dunno. Lemme check... Nope, just a flick: Prends-moi comme un bête.”

“Shoot. Well, g’night then.”

“G’night.”
