Kuykendall Seeks a Davidson “Servanthood” Philosophy
Service Graduation Requirement Discussed
By SUSAN PEARSALL

In an attempt to examine the role of service at Davidson, College President Dr. John Kuykendall has appointed a Service
Task Force of students, faculty, and administrators, whose duties he outlined in a forum resembling a press conference Tuesday, Oct.
27 in the 900 Room. Sub-groups of the twenty-member task force will write a philosophy of service, publicize the work
of service organizations on campus, explore new avenues of service, and write a report to the president of the college
and the trustees to be submitted in May 1988.

Kuykendall also raised questions about the college’s estimation of the importance of service because it could become a requirement for
graduation and the granting of tenure. Would a curricular or non-curricular requirement in this area defeat the purpose of volunteerism?
Many of the students present argued that such a requirement would be philosophically repugnant.

Kuykendall expressed hopes that the committee’s work will result in a philosophical statement defining Davidson’s goals as an institution in
this area. He also expects the committee to address the question of possible rewards for the college and community which
would result from a heightened commitment to serve. Kuykendall explained that the ultimate goal of the committee is to help
the trustees make a policy on service through their research of the issue. “Commitment to service is a distinctive characteristic
of this campus,” he stated, and is “a

Honor Council Holds Open Forum
Problems with Self-Scheduled Exams Cited
By GEORGE KURANI

Representatives of the Honor Council met this Tuesday to speak with and answer questions from a crowd of about twenty
students and faculty members. While there were no pre-determined topics for discussion, the meeting lasted about an hour and dealt
with some of the questions that have been and are presently of great importance to the Honor Council.

The first question dealt with recent rumors that have hinted at the elimination of student-run self-scheduled exams. In response to
a student’s concern about such a possibility, the Honor Council responded by saying that there has been an “unusually high”
number of suspected violations over the last few terms at the college, particularly with exams. The solution proposed by the
Council involved encouraging students to take a more active role in reporting any suspicions—even if it meant calling for more
students to approach friends who they think may be guilty of Honor Code violations.

Later discussion was permeated by a single, pressing question: why is there a perception that students are not taking the
Honor Code seriously enough? Several factors were mentioned and debated. Some suggested that professors might help by taking extra time,
particularly at the beginning of the term, to stress their belief in the Honor Code and in the value of
honor. One professor present at the discussion noted that in his time spent as a Davidson undergraduate student, promotion of
the Honor Code was left to students since students were also required to implement and to enforce it. In those
days, he said, the faculty had very little to do with the promotion of the Honor Code to the student
body. He also added that he was not sure if it should become the job of professors to lecture to
their students on the subject of the Honor Code.

It was suggested that students’ attitudes may be shifting because more students are spending a term or a year abroad
in environments that do not value honor as highly as does the Davidson college community. “But what about the time
students spend away from Davidson during the summer?” others countered. “Should that affect their sense of honor, too?” Many of
the people attending the forum did not feel that spending time away from Davidson should lead a student away from
the Honor Code.

It was also suggested that the recent increases in the number of Honor Code violations might be symptomatic of greater
ills affecting all of society. Has our culture fostered an “Ivan Boesky” mentality among Davidson’s students, and if so, is
it destroying Davidson’s sense of honor?

Students also suggested solutions to the problems which the Honor Council has faced recently. It was proposed that the Council
place more emphasis upon the positive aspects of the Honor Code than upon the Code’s negative, threatening side. Perhaps more
should be done to promote a feeling of mutual trust instead of just warning students of the consequences they would
face if they violated the rules? One student said that he felt that the Honor Code has come to represent
nothing more than a series of threats to individuals instead of aVery basic aspect of what I think Davidson is
all about.” When he became president three years ago, Kuykendall said, he defined the college in terms of its qualities
of Scholarship and Servanthood. Therefore, he said, he formed this task force in order to assist the trustees in fulfilling
two objectives in the area of Servanthood: to make Davidson outstanding in its commitment to service, and to make the
student body more aware of and involved in a greater variety of community projects.

Throughout the school year, the committee members will be working to fulfill four main duties. First of all, they will
make an inventory of all individual and group-oriented service projects undertaken here by students, faculty, and staff members. A survey
is currently being prepared to begin work on this task. Next, they plan to survey other institutions, especially those similar
to Davidson in size, and compare their service activities to ours. From this evidence, they will come up with some
recommendations for improvement, and, finally, suggest new possibilities for service locally, in the Charlotte area, and abroad.

Friday, November 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Perhaps the most pertinent and interesting questions on the topic of service were raised by longtime Y-Student Service Corps Advisor
Dr. David Shi. He suggested that a solution to the problems in this area would be the hiring of a
full-time staff member to coordinate all activities and to advise and recruit interested students. Since service usually involves ongoing projects,
it has been difficult for the YSSC to work up to its full potential because each year brings a change
of membership, and the new students often need assistance in learning the ropes. A staff member could bring a real
element of continuity to the group by passing along his knowledge of each project. In addition, he would be able
to respond to the needs of the Charlotte community by keeping in contact with their service organizations and allocating students
to aid them in their efforts.

Other decisions which the trustees may have to make involve money, naturally. The school will probably end up spending more
on service projects. Shi suggested purchasing a van to transport students to problem spots outside the Davidson area. In any
case, service at Davidson will undergo a complete reexamination within the next two terms, and the results may be released
as soon as 1988.

Stock market crash a system based upon true honor — and dignity. He expressed his feeling that daily reminders of
the omnipresence of the Honor System (such as the inclusion of the Honor Pledge at the top of every College
Union Announcement Sheet) serve only as a “bitter threat” to students instead of reinforcing the principles of the Honor System.

College Credit
First Union loan has a lot of ways to give you credit while pursuing a college degree.
New Banking Power For You.
FIRFON
First Union National Bank of North Carolina
Banking Offices Statewide
Member FDIC
DAVIDSON 892-8861
©1987 First Union National Bank of North Carolina

Cuts $7.5 million from Davidson endowment
Conservative investment saved college from even greater loss
By RACHEL NATION

On Monday, October 19, stocks plunged; panic gripped the investors on Wall Street, and America experienced its biggest stock market
crash in 73 years. Fortunately, however, Davidson’s endowment only dropped 13%. In fact, Bob Sutton, Vice President of Business and
Finance, assured the Davidson community that Davidson’s investment policy is structured to deal with stock market fluctuations.

Just how much have the ripples of this crash extended to affect the finances of Davidson College? According to Burton
Hudson, Director of Financial Planning, Davidson’s endowment of $66.9 million decreased 13% to $59.4 million. This figure equals the value
of the college’s endowment in July 1986. Hudson explained that the Budget and Finance committee, a subcommittee of the Board
of Trustees, has hired five different external managers, located across the country, each of whom has a different investment style
for diversification. Thus, Davidson’s endowment assets are spread out between stocks, bonds, cash, real estate, and venture capital.

Most colleges invest from 50% to 60% of their endowments in stocks. Therefore, according to Hudson, “we’re at the low
end of equity exposure,” since Davidson has invested only 48% of its endowment in stocks. Hudson added that Davidson had
actually been moving away from stocks as the crash approached. He also said that the plans for new dormitories and
the Baker sports complex will not be affected by the endowment drop since the funds for these projects have yet
to be collected. According to Sutton, the drop in endowment funds has, “set us back to about where we were
at the beginning of the year.”
