The Daily Jonesagain 12 February 6, 1987 - A case of commas and old friends

Continued from page 12

Last Friday afternoon, I decided on the spur of the moment to visit my family in Mint Hill, NC. Before
leaving Davidson, I called my mother to inform her that I’d be on the front porch in an hour and
a half. Excitedly, my mother informed me that she and my father had invited two ladies — both of whom
are in their eighties — over for dinner. My mother also asked that I bring home an issue of “The
Davidsonian.”

The two ladies — Americans by birth, Southern Democrats by the grace of God — enjoyed much my article on
“that foolhardy” Pat Buchanan but complained that the article had “too darn many commas in it!” With precocious stubbornness, they
insisted that I revise the article, leaving out “most of the commas.” In this space, I thank my parents and
the ladies for a fun-filled evening. I offer the ladies my article on Pat Buchanan minus as many commas as
I could bring myself to subtract, in hope that by removing commas I might bring us and my words closer
together. And, as William Faulkner always threatened to do for his readers, I supply the ladies with a more-than-sufficient supply
of commas so that they might cut out and paste a comma where they think one is needed.

On 21 January 1987, Republicans dropped down on their knees and thanked their Creator. On that joyous day, Pat Buchanan
proclaimed that he would not run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1988. But many stoics caught in the midst
of the Republicans rejoicing wonder why the Republicans had feared Buchanan so.

One can learn a lot about a gentleman by listening to the words he speaks and the company he keeps.
This rule of thumb applies to Pat Buchanan even as his gentlemanliness grows ever more questionable. Buchanan slanders liberals, communists,
and the media, and pals with Jesse Helms and the specter of Joseph McCarthy. What many reasonable Republicans — which
phrase is fast becoming an oxymoron — feared until January 21 was that Buchanan, 48, suffers from midlife restlessness and
was going to share his restlessness with them by running for the Republican presidential nomination in 1988.

Considering that Buchanan has aspired to make a living by using words well, it’s surprising that he is not waiting
silently in the unemployment lines. He has been a columnist, a talk-show celebrity, and a speechmaker for Richard Nixon and
Ronald Reagan. Until last week, he supervised Reagan’s speechmaking and media operations.

A man’s style is the man. Buchanan’s style has been described as that of a beer-guzzler, a brass-knuckles ex-journalist, a
barking bulldog. He displays little knowledge of and little appreciation for subtlety and sensitivity in language. His intention is not
to encourage the reader or listener to think and to evaluate but to learn by rote. He enjoys alliteration and
metaphors excessively and employs these literary devices provocatively.

In 1969, he brandished an alarming lack of subtlety, sensitivity, and sensibility when he called Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
“a fraud, a demagogue, and the Devil incarnate.” Again, in May 1983, he displayed shamelessly the year-round vacancies in his
heart and mind when he said, “The poor homosexuals. They have declared war upon nature, and now nature is exacting
an awful retribution. AIDS.” And during the last twelvemonth, he has praised repeatedly McCarthy as a directly positive influence in
American history and has stated, “McCarthy was a credit to himself.”

Buchanan can neither use nor enjoy alliteration and metaphors in moderation. He has referred to the writers of the “Washington
Post” and Samuel Donaldson as “liberal carping critics.” He says of Democrats: They “cry crocodile tears on TV but they
don’t fool us. They resent Reagan because he stole America from them. They want to kill SDI and...leave Nicaragua to
the Soviet Empire.” Buchanan had not displayed a proven ability to raise money, had no national network of supporters, and
had no campaign experience. The last time he campaigned was in 1959, when he ran for an office in a
social club at Georgetown University. Buchanan, it would seem, could not have met the traditional criteria for becoming a viable
presidential candidate. But then, Buchanan really did not expect to win the Republican nomination and would have lost no sleep
if he had been defeated. He would have been willing to run just in order to shake the political landscape
in 1988. It was precisely this willingness of Buchanan that caused many Republicans to sit worrying by day and to
lie tossing by night — until that joyous January day.

Prior to his announcement on January 21, Buchanan led a pep rally in Lafayette Park in Washington D.C. for Ronald
Reagan, a cheerleader whose fiery spirit had been squelched by the dampening Iran scam. Using a microphone in place of
a megaphone, Buchanan cheered on Reagan and booed Reagan’s opponents. His style remaining consistent, Buchanan force-fed the audience of over
300 Reaganites. He stated that liberals, communists, and the media use the Iran crisis in such a way as to
bring down Reagan and inadvertently this nation. He beseeched the audience to “rally round Ron” and to save the nation.
As Buchanan descended the podium and made his way out of the park, he floated in a sea of unwavering
support. The audience yelled, “I hope you run, Pat, in 1988. God bless you, Pat. I’m with you in 1988,
Pat.” Buchanan exited yelling, “Keep it up, I love it.”

George Bush probably glanced out a window of the White House and, upon seeing Buchanan, wondered if Buchanan might be
a sideshow or a main distraction in the Republican presidential nomination in 1988. Since January 21, Bush wonders no longer
but still has a wondering look on his face. Many Republicans had feared that if Buchanan had entered the lengthening
queue of aspirants for the Republican presidential nomination, he would have snatched a large amount of money from conservative campaign
contributors, of which contributors Jesse Helms would have been one. Helms and his campaign fundraisers already had gotten cozy with
Buchanan. Says one of Jack Kemp’s aides, “Buchanan could have split the right and could have let George Bush or
Bob Dole walk away with it.” A journalist quips, “Who would have been Buchanan’s running mate?” To which Sandy Grady,
a syndicated columnist, responds, “A Doberman pinscher.” Arf, arf, arf. Enough unruly fun; my ribs hurt. In the dog-eat-dog world
that is politics, Buchanan would have had little trouble finding a blindly loyal running mate who desired nothing more than
to bark at and roll over liberals, communists, and the media.

---

Insipid Art

Ode on Ballentine

Oh crystal freezer that holds my darling,
Release thine hold on all your stock lest I forget the charms of that golden nectar
Stored within. So long has the jungle lord of grocers
Withheld the beverage of immortals that my thirst
Seems unquenchable. To grasp one bottle,
That is all I ask. With emerald hold in hand,
Then can I die in the eternal buzz-zone.

Saying “Hoo-de-doo and Do-se-does”
Wake up all you sleepy heads
Get your buns up out of beds
Here I come all shiny bright
You’ve had enough of dark, dark night.

Dawn

Dawn comes in on little tippy-toes
I twist the cap and find the goal of my holy quest
And suck the local ambrosia denied me for so long.
That smoothness, that glow, that warm feeling,
These I have missed for so long. Yet every sip
Decreases my finite supply. I ache and thirst
Despite the golden bounty I possess for I know
It will soon be gone. The hangover grows
In strength and I’ve only a puzzle to console.
