Opinions The Davidsonian Friday, April 24, 1987 13

Homelessness and mental illness: causes and a cure - Steve Baggarly

As Tim Brown points out in his March 30 opinions article, a common assumption concerning the ever-increasing number of homeless
people in our cities is that many are there because of the deinstitutionalization of psychiatric institutions. While this is often
the case, I think that we need to ask which comes first — mental illness or homelessness? To assume that
mental illness is a primary cause of homelessness adds to the list of prejudices and negative images that most Americans
have towards this segment of our population.

Usually, the reasons one is on the street to begin with are enough to psychologically devastate anyone: loss of a
job, loss of family, eviction, fire, or displacement because of gentrification (improving housing in slum areas, making it too expensive
for the poorer population to continue living there), lack of low-income housing, or ineligibility for welfare or other programs (one
criterion for welfare benefits is that an individual have an address). Often these or other tragedies occur one after the
other, and we end up having as many causes for homelessness as there are people on the street. This sudden
and total change in lifestyle, every day brings new pressures to acquire food, warmth, shelter, clothing, and protection from violence,
not to mention the need for kind human contact. For many, this hand-to-mouth existence on the downtown streets of a
large city can result in the deterioration of mental faculties.

Homelessness itself is symptomatic of a deeper madness in our society, a madness that allows between 250,000 and 3 million
Americans to be living on the street right now. There is no assurance that these people will find help in
our society because the prevailing myth of the “American dream” dictates that if one is willing to work hard enough,
one can get comfortably by. Viewed as failures in the race for financial security and status symbols, people on the
street are shunned by the rest of society. They are labeled unaesthetic, thieves, mentally ill, and lazy by many who
never take the time to know them as human beings. They are commonly ignored. For the person on the street,
the social rejection of being considered a freeloader or inferior person because he or she has failed to attain economic
well-being, is a constant stress. To live in a cardboard box at the foot of a shiny new skyscraper or
on a park bench in front of a cathedral is a constant reminder that some people are regarded as more
important and have access to such places, while one’s presence in such a place is often cause for discomfort, even
abuse.

Having no socially respected access to sustenance in the midst of the most affluent society in the world works to
destroy people. One experiences it while spending months leaning against, or huddling in the doorways of other people’s buildings. One
is confronted daily with billboards of wealthy white people enjoying their material prosperity, and seeing it firsthand while staying in
the nicest downtown section in hopes of it being safer. Even preventive health care is rarely afforded to the person
on the street. Often simple injuries are refused treatment, having to evolve into life-threatening situations before a hospital will admit
indigents to a $500 a day hospital room. It is not only deinstitutionalization, but our society’s built-in systems of dehumanizing
the poor that contribute to mental illness on the street.

If a homeless person happens to be female, life on the street is even more pressurized. I spent five months
living in an emergency shelter in the slums of north Philadelphia, during which I very rarely met a woman who
had lived on the street for an extended amount of time that didn't seem to have some psychological problem. Their
vulnerability is so complete, mentally ill women on the street being easy targets for rape. I can remember a woman
telling me how she had been raped twice the night before, but was too confused to say much else. There
exists no justice for this woman and countless others like her. Mentally ill homeless people don’t take those who abuse
them to court.

In his article, Tim cites individual examples of only the most violent end of the spectrum of mentally ill people
on the street. Actually, he does not even qualify whether the people he uses in his examples were indeed homeless,
stating only that they were considered mentally ill. I hope that such stories do not reinforce the myths and fears
surrounding homeless and mentally ill people. Movies, books, television, and years of being told not to walk in “that part
of town” or to go near “those people” have created mental images in us that depict the homeless as aggressive,
dangerous people. As long as these images keep us from trying to care, we live in a false reality.

In Philadelphia, I came to see that homeless people with mental illness are often gentle and kind. One man, who
I will call John, was a regular at the soup kitchen. He was always polite and never showed any bitterness
to the abuse he received from others. He is an artist. After eating dinner at the soup kitchen, he likes
to sit and make wonderful pen sketches on napkins or scraps of paper. His pride and joy is a canoe
he carved from balsa wood. Another friend, Jose, is troubled when others call him loco because a doctor diagnosed him
as schizophrenic. He just wants to go back to Puerto Rico. Darryl, whose brother was gunned down by police a
few years ago in front of the kitchen, often talks to himself. He knows karate and sometimes uses it for
protection, but is always ready with a smile or a song in the morning as he exercises. Another frequenter of
the kitchen, The King of Denmark, is a snappy dresser and can converse on everything from Wall Street to pencils,
Danish food to the umbrella he carries rain or shine. I feel that I do my friends an injustice by
using them as my examples, but I think it is important to know that these usually invisible people have names
and have stories, often aching to be told.

As Tim points out, deinstitutionalization is one cause of homelessness in this country. Community-based halfway houses were to be the
means of reintegrating the mentally ill into society. Few have been created, however, and thousands of mentally ill people are...Left
to roam the streets. At the same time, the street wears down the sanity of healthy people who end up
there for other reasons, as they internalize constant human and societal rejection while struggling to live from day to day.
What can be done? How can we get to the very root of the problem? A myriad of opinions have
been voiced. Some advocate a social welfare state such as Denmark’s, where no one has to worry about security from
the cradle to the grave. Others hold that capitalist investment in a laissez-faire system would create jobs for all who
can work, and yield enough private charity for those who cannot. Countless other suggestions fall between these extremes. I have
a suggestion that may appeal to both “conservatives” and “liberals” alike. People who have homes could invite people without homes
to live with them. Think of how many spare bedrooms and sofas, even the amount of floor space, that go
unused. For the conservative, this would greatly reduce homelessness solely through the workings of the private sector. For the liberal,
it offers the homeless a real home rather than impersonal, institutionalized charity. Yes, this is a simplistic solution with some
rough edges. What I hope to convey is that the answer to the problem of the homeless and mentally ill
goes beyond mere delegation of responsibility to the government or private charities, and into what we can do ourselves.

Are students being deceived? Is the faculty confused?
Michael Jarmon & Paul Kosmas

Whether you are aware of it or not, the faculty is currently making a decision whether Davidson students, present and
future, will study under a semester or term system. The foremost concern of this decision should be the education of
Davidson students. Facilitating faculty or administrative interests should not be of issue. Education should not suffer at the benefit of
the faculty or administration. Students need to be aware of this decision process. Furthermore, they should have an informed opinion,
so that they can make the faculty aware of their convictions. The Educational Policy Committee, chaired by Dean Robert Williams,
has produced a report on the semester package proposal.

Here we present the issue: the effectiveness of the current system is under question, proposals have been made for (1)
a semester system, and (2) a modified term system, both with curricular changes. Under the proposed semester system students would
have two fifteen-week terms. Normal course load would be four classes per term, totaling thirty-two courses over four years for
normal graduation progress. Classes would meet every other day, with a total classroom time of three hours per week. This
allows for a so-called percolation time of material. The workload of any particular course remains essentially the same as under
the present system. The workload is however subject to the discretion of individual professors. Advocates of the semester system forward
that students would have 25% more courses, yet 50% more time. Registration and exam periods would take place twice yearly.
The proposed semester system package calls for core curriculum (area requirements) changes, lowering the total number of core classes. Also,
the core classes would be more specific (i.e. a mandatory math course, and science/laboratory course). Furthermore, proponents of the semester
package claim that independent study would be encouraged in the junior and senior years. They hold that “undergraduate education should
provide a progression from a general education core curriculum defined by the faculty to a growing autonomy and independence on
the part of the student.” They also claim that semesters alleviate the “exhaustion” or “burn-out” factor of the present system
by having classes which meet every other day, and fewer registration and exam periods. Students would only “gear up” twice
a year instead of three times.

Before moving on, note the misconceptions in these arguments. As to there being 25% more courses and 50% more time
per term, this is not a result of the semester move. “More time” would be a result of diminished total
course load required for graduation. The loss of four courses provides more time, not semesters. The exhaustion factor also relies
mainly on the lightened course load. Neither are the area requirement changes, or the “increased independent study” possibilities related to
the semester system. These supposed advantages are instead contingent upon the curricular alterations. Most of the advantages of a semester
system can be achieved as well within a term system.

Under the present system, there are three ten-week terms, with students taking three courses per term. Normal progress is nine
courses per year, and 36 courses total for graduation. Classes meet every day. Registration and exams are three times per
year. Area requirements are less defined than the proposed semester package, and number more. But in both the term system
and semester system the ratio of core classes to major study to elective courses remains consistent, approximately one-third each. Independent
study is not propagated. High burn-out is a factor. Benefits of the present system are as follows: flexibility in terms
of course sequencing and major declaration, and less divergent, more focused attention on fewer courses.

Examine now how a term system can be modified to maximize benefits of both systems. It is possible to have
within the term system blocked class time, decreased course load, and a modified core curriculum, and retain the benefits of
flexibility. Blocked classes and daily classes can be assimilated into the term system. The chart describes how this is accomplished.
This combination allows for a new flexibility, enabling professors to structure classes according to their needs. Decreased course load benefits
the term system in many ways. A student taking eight courses per year, on average, can work with far more
possibilities in terms of scheduling, which facilitates an individual’s needs. For example, a student can structure their terms according to
difficulty, the need to “take a breather,” easier adaption to study abroad.

Continued to page 16
