January 16, 1987

By PERRY MATHEWES

Davidson won a pair of conference games this week, beating The Citadel 79-71 and Western Carolina 61-57 to raise their
conference record to 2-1 and their overall record to 7-6.

Senior forward Ace Tanner opened last Saturday night’s game against The Citadel with a stuff, but the Cats trailed for
the last 15 minutes of the half. The Citadel, however, could not pull away from Davidson, managing to extend their
lead to only six points. Junior guard Derek Rucker kept the Cats close as he scored 14 points. Davidson went
in at the half down 38-32.

Early in the second half, a scoring spurt of eight straight points by Rucker put the Cats in the lead
for good with 14:38 left in the game. Davidson quickly put some distance between themselves and The Citadel, building the
lead to as much as 15 points. Down the stretch, The Citadel tried to close the gap as they gave
every Davidson player a chance to shoot at least one free throw. The team shot only 64 percent (16 of
23) from the line, allowing The Citadel to narrow the margin for the final score.

Several players played well for the Cats. Senior guard Chris Heineman scored 11 points, junior forward Jeff Himes had 13
points and six rebounds, and Tanner had 12 points and four steals. However, the night belonged to Rucker, who scored
a career-high 35 points, breaking his previous record of 31 points which he scored against The Citadel his freshman year.
He was five of six from three-point range and a perfect 12 for 12 from the line. He also had
two steals and seven assists.

The Western Carolina game did not start out as well for the Cats as WCU streaked out to a 15-2
lead before Davidson began to respond, scoring their first basket with 11:39 to go in the half. Two straight baskets
by Tanner and a three-pointer each from Rucker and Heineman helped the Cats get back into the game. At the
6:04 mark, Rucker hit a three-pointer to tie the score at 21-21. WCU answered the challenge and opened up an
eight-point lead before the half ended with Western ahead 34-28.

Davidson opened the scoring in the second half and managed to close the margin to 38-37, but WCU scored eight
straight points to lead 46-37. Himes led the Cats as they came back to tie the score at 46 when
he hit two free throws. Two minutes later, junior guard Dean Keener hit an 18-footer to give Davidson the lead
for good. The Cats pushed the lead up to seven points, 56-49, when Heineman hit two free throws at the
1:48 mark. WCU never got closer than the final margin.

Himes and Rucker led the team in scoring with 19 points each. Tanner also played well with 10 points, three
blocked shots, and 13 rebounds. Davidson’s next game is Saturday night against Appalachian State and they then take on East
Tennessee State Monday night. Both games are at home, starting at 7:30 p.m.

Wrestlers drop four tough matches in rough week

By SUSAN WILKINS

Davidson’s wrestling team has had a busy week, wrestling at home last Saturday in a quad meet against Elon, Georgia
Tech, and The Citadel, and wrestling away on Wednesday against Furman. Unfortunately, the Cats dropped all four matches.

In Saturday’s first match, Davidson was up against Southern Conference rival Citadel. The Citadel has several scholarship wrestlers and one
All-American, so the Wildcats expected a tough match. At 118, freshman Holme Oltrogge dropped his match 3-0, despite wrestling well
in both the second and third periods. Oltrogge’s man scored a takedown to begin the match and could do nothing
else thereafter. He upped the score by winning the time point.

Senior Michael Adams, the 126-pounder for the Cats, lost by decision to one of Citadel’s scholarship athletes. Adams was taken
down and turned to his back repeatedly as Citadel’s man dominated the match.

Wrestling at 134 for Davidson was freshman Bruce Newsome. Newsome went down 9-0 before managing to give the Cats some
hope by scoring on a reversal. Hope died fast, however, as Newsome was reversed and pinned a few seconds later.

Sophomore Matt Merrill lost his match by decision in the 142-pound weight class. Merrill reversed his man and scored an
escape before going down.At 150, senior captain John T. Lay won the first match for Davidson against Citadel’s usual 158-pounder.
Lay was awarded two points when his opponent was caught stalling, and then Lay took him down to finish the
match. Lay won the riding time point and thus, won the match 5-0. Sophomore Sherb Sentell had the misfortune to
wrestle Citadel’s All-American at 158. The All-American lived up to his ranking, pinning Sentell with 2:24 left to go in
the first period. The Citadel led Davidson 27-3.

Davidson had to forfeit the 167-pound weight class. Junior Doug Batchelor was hurt the previous Thursday and is expected to
be out for the season due to shoulder injuries. Junior captain Tim Heinze beat his man by taking him down,
letting him escape, and taking him down again. Heinze worked for the pin but could not stick the Citadel man.
He won 15-3. Despite getting off to a slow start, junior 190-pounder Doug Saintsing wrestled well. Saintsing was down 9-0
before he made his move. He came back to within two points with a minute remaining. The Citadel wrestler then
got lucky and scored two escapes, and the match ended. The Bulldog wrestler had riding time, and so Saintsing lost
17-13. Senior heavyweight Gary Branch finished off the match for the Wildcats by pinning his man. Branch was up by
12 before he stuck his man, scoring most of his points off his opponent’s back. The final team score for
the match was Citadel 36, Davidson 14.

The Wildcats then wrestled Georgia Tech. In the 118 class, Oltrogge was down by seven before the Yellow Jacket stung
him in the third period. Georgia Tech led by six. At 126, Adams lost another by decision. His opponent took
him down and then turned him to his back to score. Davidson's first points came at the 134-pound weight class.
Newsome stepped onto the mat to receive the Tech forfeit. At 142, Merrell reversed his man once to make the
match score 5-2. He then was taken down and turned to his back. The score was 13-2 when Tech’s man
pinned him. Lay again provided Davidson’s first win of the afternoon, beating his 150-pound weakling 9-6. At 158, Sentell looked
better than he did against The Citadel’s All-American, but still was pinned, this time in the second period. Georgia Tech
led Davidson 21-9. At 177-pounds, Heinze wrestled the match of the day. Heinze had the match won (the score was
6-6 but Heinze had riding time) until the last two seconds, when the Georgia Tech wrestler reversed to score the
two points he needed to win 8-7. At 190, Saintsing was on the defensive for all of the match; he
ended up losing 19-8. At heavyweight, Branch met his match and was pinned in the first period. Davidson lost to
Georgia Tech 39-9.

Davidson wrestled Elon in the final match of the day. Oltrogge lost a close match at 118, 5-2. In the
final period, Oltrogge had control but could not turn the Elon wrestler to his back to score the needed three
points. At 126, Adams excited the crowd by scoring his first point of the day but ended by losing 17-1.
His opponent used the double chicken wing on him successfully, and the match had to be stopped twice as the
move injured Adams. Newsome, at 134, was pinned for the second time. His opponent led 2-0 when he pinned him.
Merrell’s opponent followed his teammate’s example and pinned Merrell in the 142-pound weight class. Merrell was down 6-2 when he
was pinned. At 158, Lay was happy to accept a forfeit from Elon. At 167, Elon was happy to accept
a forfeit from Davidson. Elon forfeited again at 177, and the team score was now Davidson 12, Elon 27. At
190, Saintsing won for the Cats 9-5, scoring most of his points on takedowns and reversals. Branch came back at
the heavyweight position to pin his man, marking up his team-leading fourth pin of the year. Davidson lost to Elon
27-21.

Wednesday night the Cats traveled to Furman to wrestle their second Southern Conference match of the year. The score fluctuated
before the Paladins finally won the match 33-21. Winners for the Cats were: Oltrogge (118) by forfeit, Newsome (134) by
forfeit, Lay (150) by pin, and Heinze (177) 9-7.

The Wildcats' next home match is Saturday at 1 p.m. versus Hampden-Sydney in Johnston Gym.
