Wednesday, April 15, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lethal Weapon offers pure entertainment plus Gibson
By BRUCE PLOURDE

Another movie about Vietnam? Well, sort of. The characters in the movie all have spent their time there, but the
movie does not touch upon their experiences. Instead, in yet another rehashing of the old plot, the soldiers of old
come home and become the “good guys” and the “bad guys.” Mel Gibson plays one of the good guys. With
the recent death of his wife, he has become suicidal and is moved from his post on the vice squad
to a less stressful position with an older veteran cop (Danny Glover). They soon find themselves up against the likes
of “The Colonel” and “Mr. Joshua,” bad guys with no morals of any kind. The clash of forces too often
fails to incite much tension in this very predictable chain of events. The only tension stems from a concern over
the welfare of the characters threatened.

Gibson and Glover apparently had a good time producing this movie. Although they must have realized that the script was
poor, they nonetheless played their parts with gusto and animated their characters by the sheer force of their own personality
and charm. The dynamic exchanges between them carry the dead weight of the more senselessly violent and hopelessly cliched scenes.
Their first encounter sets the pattern for the movie. Glover spots the rough-hewn Gibson in his police department, unshaven and
dressed for an intramural softball game. He takes no note of him until Gibson pulls out his revolver from his
belt. Then Glover takes a running dive at him, hollering “Gun!” Helping up his superior, one of the other police
officers introduces him to his new partner. At first contemptuous of each other, the two men through their trials come
to trust each other, even with their lives.

In fact, there’s no lacking memorable characters in this movie. Mr. Joshua couldn't get any tougher if he had metal
teeth. And the Colonel’s cold cunning deserves both admiration and repulsion. These men are not bumbling criminals easily conquered by
the pure-at-heart police.

Pop Film:
By FLORENCE SNIVELY

For the first five minutes, the movie Chinatown is just another detective flick. We’ve all seen it before — the
private investigator who, duped by his client, goes on a passionate quest for the Truth. Although Chinatown brings no new
technical trick to the private eye movie, it seems fresh and exciting.

Dare to Speak Out:
But today the freedom of speech that remains the hallmark of our Constitution may be threatened. The NAAAF Essay Contest
is designed to emphasize the importance of free speech and open debate in a vital area. In his best-selling book,
They Dare to Speak Out: People and Institutions Confront Israel’s Lobby, former Congressman Paul Findley sounds an alarm: “It is
clear that many Americans do not feel they can speak freely on one of the most complicated and challenging current
issues: The Arab-Israeli dispute.” Is he right? What do you think? Full-time college and university students are invited to submit
a critical essay on the subject “The Development of American Middle East Policy: Is Free Speech Threatened?” There will be
200 regional winners of $1,000 each and 10 national winners of an additional $4,000 each. The contest is sponsored by
the NAAA Foundation, a charitable organization which carries out educational programs on Middle East issues. Television commentator Tom Braden serves
as Honorary Chairman of the Selection Committee. Distinguished columnist Carl Rowan is Awards Chairman. Send us the coupon for details
and entry forms. Entries must be postmarked by May 31, 1987.

The NAAA Foundation Essay Contest
Commemorating the Anniversary of the Constitution
200 Years * 200 WinnersHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The plot is convoluted; we have no idea who is guilty. Furthermore, as we watch Gittes, our Constitution is born
out of a cacophony of competing voices.

Please send me complete guidelines and entry forms for an essay of 2,500 words or less.

They function with both physical and mental prowess, advancing their cause in a ruthless and unemotional fashion. Leaving no aspect
of their illegal operations unconsidered, they put the likes of Al Capone to shame. Aside from the characters, not much
else attributes to the quality of the film. Of course, the fight and car-chase scenes add an enticement to those
looking for pure entertainment. In the end, Lethal Weapon serves only one purpose: that of pure entertainment. If you don’t
take this movie seriously, you will probably end up enjoying yourself.

It's Chinatown about finding truth; we become involved as well. J.J. Gittes is hired to tail Mr. Mulwray, an LA
water commissioner, as his wife suspects him of infidelity. Just after he finds his evidence, his results mysteriously become front-page
news. Shortly thereafter, he is confronted by the real Mrs. Mulwray (Faye Dunaway), who says she knew nothing of her
husband’s infidelity and plans to sue. Gittes, seeking only to protect his professional reputation, is drawn into the intrigue. Something
is wrong with Mrs. Mulwray’s story (she is a terrible liar). Seeking confirmation, Gittes hunts for Mulwray himself, but finds
him dead. Each time Gittes goes back to Mrs. Mulwray, she tells him a little more of the truth. Dunaway
portrays Mrs. Mulwray as a slightly unstable woman. Each time Gittes confronts her, she falls apart and gives away a
little more of her story. And as she is revealed, Gittes grows closer and closer to her.

Nicholson shines as well. At first, he seems Clint Eastwood-tough and organized, but gradually Nicholson shows us the real Gittes.
Behind the mask of competence, he is really lonely and insecure. He has trouble integrating both professional toughness and personal
humanity into his personality. When confronted about the newspaper story, he becomes violently defensive. Although he tries to profit from
everyone, to take on assignments from people whose desires clearly conflict, underneath, he has a genuine desire to solve the
mystery of Mulwray’s death and protect all the innocent people involved. He cannot prevent himself from getting involved. He has
more difficulty accepting his growing relationship with Mrs. Mulwray than her terrified lying should generate.

We are led to believe his isolation stems mostly from a mysterious event that occurred in Chinatown years before. There
is no ignoring the significance of Chinatown: it is the name of the film, all the Mulwray servants are Chinese,
a not very amusing joke about a Chinaman is repeated twice, and the event in Chinatown is mentioned through several
ominous hints. The most Gittes will say about the Chinatown incident is, “I tried to keep someone from being hurt.
I ended up making sure she got hurt.” From studying the past, even Gittes can predict the future, though he
denies his predictions.

Chinatown is not an intellectual movie. Its audience does not have to work hard to understand its symbolism or foreshadowing.
The kind of thought this movie commands is a kind of second-plot. Because Nicholson and Dunaway are so good, because
the plot is so unpredictable, one finds oneself actively participating, testing first this suspect, then that one. Chinatown entertains; it
is definitely worth your Friday evening.

---

Name
College or University
Major
Class
Campus Address
Home Address

Send to: NAAA Foundation, P.O. Box 19144, Washington, DC 20036
