Dynamic Zoo Story plays tonight in

By TIM JACKS

If everyone lives in their own little world, then Edward Albee’s The Zoo Story is an illustration of what happens when one world invades another. The Zoo Story is a very well-done offbeat student production directed by Wayne Magruder. It is being presented in the intimate setting of the 900 Room on April 15 at 7:00 p.m. during the space of one hour. The audience watches the lives of two men, Jerry and Peter, unravel in peaceful Central Park.

Peter, played by Randy Ingram, is a middle-aged man with a wife, two daughters, and two parakeets, who comes to read on his park bench regularly. Michael Gross plays Jerry, whose light-colored clothes and hair contrast with Peter’s dark hair and dark three-piece suit which sharply accents the opposition of their personalities. (One is reminded of yin-yang opposition in their appearance.) Jerry is poor and uneducated while Peter is middle-class and enjoys reading.

Magruder’s staging helps to further the distinction between the two men: Jerry stands or walks around bouncing his tennis ball while Peter sits quietly on his bench. Ingram’s style of subtle movement makes Peter seem realistic and believable. His expressions make his character dynamic and prevent him from becoming part of the set. Gross delivers Jerry’s thoughts with force and enthusiasm. With his voice and his actions, he gradually increases the tension of the play, culminating in the insanity of the conclusion, in which both actors excel. The duo that Magruder cast work well together.

The dialogue is based on Jerry’s need to talk to somebody. Jerry begins a conversation with Peter, asking Peter questions that Jerry would like to be asked of himself. Even though at first Jerry seems simple, he knows more about Peter’s unhappiness at home than Peter will admit to himself. They both need to talk to somebody, but Jerry is more verbal than Peter.

The subjects of conversation become more complex as Jerry talks about the Zoo, his house, his dead parents, sex, love, and God. A gradual reversal of opposites takes place as Jerry’s honesty, increasingly detailed storytelling, and sarcasm make Peter look simple.

The dialogue gradually builds up to the point where Jerry is explaining his own intriguing philosophy on life. “We have to know the effect of our actions!” he shouts. He believes that it is not important whether or not one loves or hates someone, but only whether or not one ‘makes contact’ with someone. Kindness and cruelty in and of themselves are not important. It is what those values teach about reality that is meaningful. Magruder definitely chose a thought-provoking play. Jerry becomes fed up when Peter does not understand and he intrudes deeper into Peter’s world by taking over the park bench in order to make Peter understand. Jerry ‘wins’ the bench in a stunning climax and Peter’s last line describes the horror of the revelation: “Oh my God . . . ” Double bravo for Gross and Ingram.