Friday, October 23, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Why does George want Billy back?
By ANTHONY MCCARRON

Dateline: New York. New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner announced Monday that Billy Martin will be back for a fifth
term as the Yankees manager. What are you up to, Prince Georgie? Is this an attempt to shake up a
lackluster squad of pinstripers? A ploy to grab the New York headlines from the Mets? A love affair you can’t
let go of? Or just another instance of you proving that you are baseball’s premier bozo? Whatever the case, you’ve
definitely wasted an opportunity to utilize a fine young manager in Lou Piniella.

At times a change of the manager is effective in motivating a ballclub, but this is ludicrous. As far as
Piniella goes, give the guy a chance, Georgie, your loftiness. He’s guided the Yanks to records of 90-72 and 89-73
in his two years as manager. Not bad, but not good enough for New York. Let’s check the facts, however.
Piniella is a man with the respect of his players. They want to play for him, and play hard. Can
Billy say the same? I point to 1977, when he almost came to blows with Reggie Jackson in the dugout
after “Mr. October” failed to hustle after a fly ball. Great.

Also, Piniella has not had the chance to manage the same caliber of talent that Martin has. Names like Rivers,
Munson, Jackson, and Nettles are replaced with Ward, Tolleson, and Easler. The Yankees of 1987 just plain could not compete
with the talent in the American League East. That Piniella guided that bunch of rag-armed jokers to an 89-73 record
and a fourth-place finish should be tribute enough to keep him on as manager. Surround Piniella with a favorable crop
of players, then judge him, I say. That’s not to say that Mattingly, Randolph, Winfield, Righetti, and Pagliarulo are not
fine players, but the Yanks were sorely lacking in many areas during 1987.

A shortstop? Bobby (17 total extra-base hits) Meachem, Paul (Brave-reject, .176) Zuvella, and Wayne (.221) Tolleson do not make up
one half of a respectable keystone combo. Strength up the middle is almost non-existent in Yankee land, King George. Randolph,
okay, is a quality player, as is Henderson (when not nursing a sore whatever), but the above-mentioned shortstops as well
as Rick “spongehead” Cerone behind the plate do not cut it. You should have done something about the team yourself,
your worship, then considered the managerial aspects of it.

The problems that Piniella had to deal with don’t end at the everyday players. A 4.36 team ERA didn’t help
much and neither did only 18 staff complete games. Jack (18-11) Morris was available, your regalness; he could have helped.
How about the injuries that Piniella had to juggle? Rickey Henderson only played in 95 games, and Randolph missed 42.

In all, I don’t think even you, your highness, can point your all-knowing finger at just one man and blame
him. Perhaps, thou thinkest, that Martin will shake up the Bronx Bombers and motivate them? If Lou Piniella couldn’t shake
up some of these laggards, being the fiery individual his playing days showed him to be, I doubt “Billy the
Bronx Brawler” could either. According to you, Papa George,-Billy is a born manager, just like Whitey Herzog. Well, Gussie Busch
leaves Whitey alone, are you going to do the same in regards to Billy? We'll see about that. Those of
us familiar with your track record tend to doubt it. And, what happens the next time Billy is caught duking
it out with one of his players in the parking lot of the Cross Keys Inn, Baltimore? Or the next
time he punches out a marshmallow salesman? The list goes on. Sure, King George, Billy is very media-accessible, but is
this a reason to bring him back? It makes one wonder (me, especially), if you are not doing it just
for a little attention. New York is not your kingdom anymore. The Mets have been hustling, kicking tail, and winning
a world championship in the past few years, as well as outdrawing the Yanks. This year the Mets’ gate tallied
3 million plus, and perhaps this is proof that the scepter has been wrested from your grasp, your kingliness. So
maybe this whole farce with Billy is just a maneuver to get a little more air-time, a Sunday spread or
two, and a couple more fans to spin the turnstiles. But, Lord George, there is no substitute for good, hard
baseball. Bring that back to the Yanks, keep sportswriter-punching clowns away, and then glory will travel down that beaten path
to the stadium. For now, though, your highness, you have blown a good manager and brought back an old dog.
What if he has not learned any new tricks? What happens when teams with some savvy (Toronto, Detroit, and Milwaukee)
continue to pound ineffective Yankee pitching, run on poor fielders, and play winning baseball? What happens to the “born manager”
then? What about the “bottom line?” Well, you’ve canned him before, your majesty...

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
2,500,000 people fighting cancer.

Now that you've gotten into Davidson, IBM can help you get more out of it.

The road to graduation is paved with term papers, lab reports, cramming, all-nighters, and, of course, exams. To ease that
journey and awaken your professors to your exceptional abilities, we suggest the newest member of the IBM Personal System/2 family:
the Model 25 Collegiate. It’s a high-powered personal computer with advanced graphics capabilities, designed to fit on your desk without
adding to the clutter. And it comes with a generous 640 KB memory, two 3.5” diskette drives and an aid
package every student can appreciate — a big discount, plus Microsoft® Windows 1.04, Write, Paint, Cardfile, IBM DOS 3.3 and
a mouse. Your Model 25 Collegiate is set to help you write and revise long papers and illustrate your points
by combining words and graphics. So your professors will draw favorable conclusions about your work. Pop in the load-and-go diskette
and learn how to get the most out of the IBM Personal System/2. For more information on the Model 25
Collegiate, visit the IBM Education Product Coordinator on campus.

Microsoft is a registered trademark of the Microsoft Corporation. IBM is a registered trademark and Personal System/2 is a trademark
of the International Business Machines Corporation. © IBM 1987.
