By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

After kicking off the 1987 season with a 4-1 victory over Salem College, the Davidson field hockey team (record: 1-2)
went through a frustrating week. The Wildcats lost 6-0 to the more experienced Duke Blue Devils on Friday and 3-0
to High Point College on Monday.

The Duke battle was played almost entirely on Davidson’s defensive side. However, the feisty Wildcats held the tough Blue Devils
to only one goal in the first half. The second half was another story. As Duke exploded with five more
goals, the Cats fell apart. Coach Betsy Pryor commented, “We got frustrated and tired. We didn’t have any transition game
and crossed the fifty [midfield] only once.”

The astroturf playing surface didn’t help the Wildcat effort either. Davidson plays on turf only once every two years and
has been unsuccessful. Coach Pryor added, “The game was a reflection on how difficult it is to play on turf.
If you don’t practice on it, it’s too quick of a game.” The speed of the game along with many
scholarship Duke players gave the Wildcats more than they could handle.

Things did not get any better Monday for Davidson as High Point College stunned the Cats, 3-0. Even after returning
to a natural grass field and a non-ACC school, the girls still could not find their rhythm.

---

X-country going uphill

By BILL SMITH

This past Saturday, September 19, the cross-country team hosted the Davidson Open/Alumni Invitational where four other teams showed up —
Appalachian State, UT-Chattanooga, VMI, and Furman. While most of us were asleep recovering from the night before, our dedicated runners
were stretching their legs and loosening their muscles in preparation for the nine o’clock race.

Greg Hofnagle of VMI took the eight-kilometer race ahead of two Appalachian State runners in a time of 25 minutes
39 seconds. Remember, this is at nine o’clock on a Saturday morning. Davidson’s first runner to finish was Jay Clugston
at twenty-third with a time of 28 minutes, 7 seconds. Jay was followed by Bob Cornish at 28th, Chris Fisher
at 32nd, and the trio of Bill Breidenstein, Bill Hartman, and Kaare Risung at positions thirty-four through thirty-six.

Appalachian State, the day’s favorite, nicked UT-Chattanooga by a score of thirty-six to thirty-eight points. VMI placed third at fifty-six
points; Furman wrapped up the fourth slot tallying ninety-six points; and, well, we were the hospitable hosts.

There was an open race also so that the remainder of the squad could compete as well as enthusiastic alumni
and any other runners who felt up to the approximately five-mile course. Greg Foreman, a graduate of last year’s class
and this year’s assistant to coach Gary Andrew, won this race with a time of twenty-seven minutes and nineteen seconds.

It’s early, but the hills are long and hard.Not recover their offense. Many times, Davidson had the ball in front
of High Point’s goal but could not score. “We had a serious mental breakdown, offensively and defensively, and we were
not aggressive enough in the circle,” pointed out coach Pryor.

Bright spots for Davidson included senior Mandy Barret, who made several crucial saves in the sweeper position, and junior goalkeeper
Elizabeth Franklin. “She’s clearing the ball well and is a real improvement over last year,” said Pryor.

Serious practice lies ahead for the Wildcats. Coach Pryor hopes the team will improve on defense, the biggest weakness, and
lessen the confusion at midfield. Overall, the young Davidson field hockey team should improve as the first-year recruits and younger
players gain experience. However, “the winning will have to come from within,” stated the coach.

The Cats play away Friday at Catawba and are at home this Tuesday, Sept. 29, to take on the Mountaineers
of Appalachian State.

Sports Shorts
By HAP BRYANT

Basketball team begins training. The 1987-88 version of Wildcat basketball has begun training in anticipation of the season. Although they
cannot begin practice with basketballs until October under NCAA regulations, they have undergone an intense conditioning program, involving running, swimming,
and weightlifting. The outlook looks promising for continued success with starters Derek Rucker, Jay Schmitt, and Mike Gynn returning.

Baseball team victorious in fall action. The Wildcat baseball team defeated Lenoir-Rhyne College 9-5 in action this week. Several Wildcat
pitchers, notably Greg Wilcox and Jay Harris, performed admirably. The two sophomores combined for four innings of shutout ball. The
fall season will give the new Wildcat coach, Jim Stoeckel, a chance to review his talent and look at many
new freshmen tryouts.

Trivia question. What pitcher holds the major league record for the most consecutive victories? (Answer next week.)

Take a hike list. This week:
1. Norby Walters and his ilk — these men of questionable repute have ruined the lives of several young men
by enticing them with money, as well as having destroyed the basketball program at Alabama, and the football programs of
Pittsburgh and Ohio State.
2. The four horsemen — Flair, Anderson, Blanchard, and Luger, the N.W.A.’s brand of the Notre Dame quartet, seem to
fight only when the numbers are in their favor. Otherwise, they run for the hills. Look for the superpowers, Rhodes
and Nikita Koloff, to run them for good soon.
3. Gary Carter — “the kid” is much too annoying to appear in the World Series again this year. We’ve
seen a lifelong supply of curtain calls. Let’s hope the Cardinals finish off the Mets during the regular season.

Haircuts
Tonsure Nexus Redkin
25% off all services for the month of October beginning September 28th.
Waxing Manicuring Braiding Suntan Booth
Special: $3.00 per session $35.00 one month unlimited visits in Cornelius.
