China: The Archaeology, The Art, The Culture

The Center for International Studies at UNCC will sponsor a program in the People’s Republic of China this summer. Travelers will visit Hong Kong, Shanghai, Beijing, Guilin, Xian, Luoyang, and Suzhou. The trip will focus on the archaeology and anthropology of China and will be accompanied by Dr. Kathleen Reichs of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. Highlights will include a visit to the tomb of the first emperor of China with its thousands of life-sized terra cotta figurines, a cruise on the River Li, famed for its spectacular and dramatic scenery, a stop at Suzhou, sometimes called China’s most beautiful city, and a tour of the Forbidden City in Beijing.

While the trip is open to all that want a travel experience a bit beyond the ordinary, participants may earn up to 6 hours of graduate or undergraduate credit. The tour will take place July 1-17, 1987, and will cost $2,930.00. This includes a round-trip flight from the U.S. to China, all air and bus transportation within China, accommodations in first-class hotels, three meals a day in China, and guides and entrance fees throughout. For those electing the academic option, tuition is also included. For more information and a brochure with details about the schedule, call 547-2464 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays.

Faculty examines semesters

By NELLE MCCORKLE

The faculty Educational Policy Committee is currently considering a semester calendar as part of a general curriculum review. If approved by the faculty, the proposed calendar could be instituted for the 1988-89 academic year. The draft should be completed this month, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Robert Williams. He said the proposal will ultimately be circulated for faculty, staff, and student discussion before any faculty vote.

“I am completing a series of discussions with every single department on campus concerning curriculum and calendar to get their advice and ideas. That discussion will be completed by the end of January,” Williams said.

Called an early semester system, the calendar under consideration consists of two 15-week terms divided by a three-week Christmas vacation following exams. Educational Policy Committee members include English Professor John Engell, German and Humanities Professor Hansford Epes, Chemistry Professor Ralph Gable, Humanities and Physics Professor Robert Manning, History Professor Malcolm Partin, and Political Science Professor Lesesne. Seniors Jeff Alex and Maultsby serve as student representatives.

A curriculum and calendar panel to be held Wednesday, Feb. 11 will allow students and faculty to discuss the semester proposal with EPC members. Williams, SGA President Mark Sandy, and Wittenberg University political science professor George Hudson will answer questions. Hudson, chairman of Wittenberg’s Task Force on the Academic Program, is currently directing that university’s consideration of an early semester calendar. Like Davidson, Wittenberg presently operates on a trimester system. The panel will be held at 3 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Continued from page 1

Students, in their discussions of the scenarios, agreed that they would not move out on their gay roommate without at least first discussing the issue with him or her. While many said that they would not move out, others admitted that they would feel stigmatized at a conservative college such as Davidson. Not only would they worry about others believing that they too were gay, but also they would worry slightly about AIDS. One student brought up the issue of flamboyance and said that it would make him uncomfortable to be around a flamboyant homosexual. To this statement, John replied that it would be just as unfair for someone to demand of his gay friends to “act straight” as it would be for someone to demand of his straight friends to “act gay” in order to make him feel more comfortable. Again, the issue of tolerance and the importance of a “liberal attitude” had come up. Finally, panelists urged the students to accept gays as people and to let them be their friends or even their college roommates. It is not necessary, they said, to agree with homosexuals or to embrace homosexuality. However, like all people, gays must be accepted, not alienated, and certainly not punished by society.

Friday, February 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Waite arrested in Beirut, Casey resigns

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the News for Jan.28 - Feb. 4: Around the World — Soviet Leader Mikhail Gorbachev called for secret balloting and a choice of candidates in the Communist party’s elections of officials. He blamed the Communist party’s “conservative sentiments” and “inertia” for past Soviet problems. President Reagan nominated Jack Matlock, his top adviser on Soviet affairs, to be Ambassador to the Soviet Union. The Administration said it will expand its economic and political contacts with Poland. West Germany arrested the brother of Lebanese terrorist suspect Mohammed Hamadei; officials said the brother is suspected of heavy involvement in the Beirut kidnappings. An Islamic group said it would kill one Indian and three American hostages if Israel does not release 400 prisoners within a week. Two Lebanese militia leaders said they believe Anglican envoy Terry Waite had been “arrested” in Beirut. The State Department barred travel to Lebanon on U.S. passports. Hojatolislam Rafsanjani, the speaker of the Iranian Parliament, justified the seizure of American hostages in West Beirut, saying the Lebanese had no other way to defend themselves. Iran arrested and detained American journalist Gerald Seib and accused him of espionage. Hundreds of students in the West Bank demonstrated in favor of Yasir Arafat’s guerrilla organization, Al Fatah. Israeli officials said their government is reassessing its arms and trade relationship with South Africa. A bomb blew up a military bus in Northern Spain, killing two and wounding 41 others. The bombing appeared to be undertaken by the Basque separatist group E.T.A. Oliver Tambo, head of the African National Congress, met with Secretary of State George Shultz and called on the U.S. to urge other countries to impose economic sanctions on South Africa. South African President P.W. Botha imposed press restrictions which allow the police commissioner to ban the publication of “any matter” he chooses. Botha said new elections to the white house of Parliament will be held May 6 of this year. Chinese Prime Minister Zhao Ziyang said the government’s campaign to limit dissent will be curtailed. The U.S. established formal diplomatic relations with Mongolia. Unofficial returns showed Philippines President Corazon Aquino was headed for an overwhelming victory in a plebiscite on her proposed constitution. The U.S. foiled an attempt by Ferdinand Marcos to return to the Philippines from Hawaii. Dissident soldiers ended their two-day occupation of a Philippines broadcast station.

Across the Nation — President Reagan in his State of the Union Address told Congress his “one major regret” was his failure to gain the release of hostages in Lebanon and to establish contacts with Iran. The president introduced a proposal to improve America’s economic competitiveness, an insurance program to protect people from catastrophic illnesses, and a new “welfare strategy” to permit states and municipal centers more flexibility in devising solutions. Members of Congress sharply criticized Reagan’s proposals for health insurance, saying the measures did not go far enough. President Reagan vetoed the $20 billion bill aimed at cleaning up the nation’s water. However, the House overrode the veto by a vote of 401-26. The Senate voted 65-33 to allow states to raise the speed limit to 65 on rural interstate highways. William Casey resigned as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. President Reagan nominated the agency's deputy director, Robert M. Gates, to succeed Casey. White House Communications Director Pat Buchanan also resigned his position. A Federal Appeals court blocked the publication of the biography of J.D. Salinger, saying the book unfairly used Salinger’s unpublished letters. The Justice Department called for greater competition in the telephone industry by allowing regional companies to manufacture telephone equipment and sell electronic information services.

In Economic Headlines — The nation’s monthly trade deficit fell 44 percent in December to $10.6 billion. The total deficit for 1986 was $169.7 billion. Japan said it will maintain its quota on auto exports to the United States for a seventh year. The United States and the European Community reached a major agreement that resolved conflict over American grain exports to Spain. The President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York proposed a revamping of the American financial system that would eliminate distinctions between banks, insurance companies, and securities firms. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker warned the dollar’s decline is approaching worrisome levels that could threaten a revival of inflation and high interest rates.