The Davidsonian
Friday, October 23, 1987

Second half doesn’t aid trailing Wildcat football
By STEWART RAWSON and MATT TERRELL

No promises were ever made far from the warmest of welcomes abroad. The Leopards took advantage of the young Wildcats
and held an eighteen-point halftime lead, 21-3. Lafayette’s senior quarterback James Adams had a 5-yard goal. The Wildcats stumbled on
Davidson rushers. Struncius, not aware of his starting role until leaving the locker room, lit up the scoreboard early with
a 22-yard strike to his fullback, Tony Miller. Kurt Bowman scampered into the end zone for an 8-yard score in
the second quarter. Before heading in for the intermission, Struncius put another six on the board by pairing up with
Phillip Ng for an 8-yard touchdown completion for the Leopards.

Davidson missed early scoring opportunities when they were unable to find the end zone after fumble recoveries at the Lafayette
18 and at the Lafayette 13. These miscues cost the 'Cats dearly, who managed only a 27-yard field goal from
Brian Jacob to knock the zero off the board before the half.

Sparse crowd welcomes NBA
By HAP BRYANT

As the doors opened on Wildcat basketball for the 1987-88 season, so did the portals of the NBA in Charlotte.
Last Friday, the Atlanta Hawks, 1987’s Central Division champions, faced the rejuvenated Indiana Pacers, who featured NBA rookie of the
year Chuck Person. As this was the first NBA game in Charlotte for some time, it should have exemplified the
rising NBA spirit in Charlotte. I was interested to see how Charlotte would accept the NBA and how the NBA
aura would descend upon the city. Consequently, I obtained a press pass to the game through the UNCC Sports Information
Office and set myself on a course of semi-professional journalism. Luckily, I was able to sit on press row for
the first half of the game.

Upon arrival, I observed the size of the players warming up on the court. From courtside, one can really appreciate
the colossal figures of today’s NBA players. On television, the viewer does not realize the height and breadth of the
players, since the only chance to compare players with a “normal” person comes when announcers interview them after a game.
Though most of the players seemed simply huge, some smaller ones were scampering around the court, namely Anthony “Spud” Webb
of the Hawks, a former N.C. State player whom the crowd soon adopted.

Unfortunately, I did not receive full NBA indoctrination because the crowd was somewhat sparse — only 3,739 people showed up
in the 11,666-seat Coliseum. Consequently, the noise level was much below that of a regular NBA game, and the fan
appreciation, though present, was diminished. As the game began, I sensed a reawakening, even with the small attendance. Action had
returned after a summer to recuperate, and the players, coaches, and fans seemed glad.

As the game progressed, I noticed quite a bit of contact “in the paint.” Wide bodies on both sides struggled
for position and met with force in the process. At first, the referees seemed to allow the pushing, shoving, and
holding. After a while, however, Jess Kersey began to yell at them: “Stop!” “Quit holding!” “No more pushing in there!”
When the players continued to body each other, Kersey and his cohort began to call fouls. In all, the Hawks
committed 36 fouls; the Pacers, 33. Who says basketball is a non-contact sport?

In the first quarter, Scott Skiles came off the Pacer bench to scattered boos from the crowd. Skiles’ confrontations with
the law are well-documented. While at Michigan State, he committed several offenses, most notably driving while intoxicated, and spent time
in jail. Last year, he could not latch on with the Milwaukee Bucks, and he was subsequently dealt to the
Pacers. Skiles was as impressive as anyone on the court during the first half of play, particularly in his basketball
mindset. He controlled the flow of the game for the Pacers, directed his teammates, made great passes, and showed his
overall court savvy. He seems ready to leave his troubles behind and assert himself as a genuine NBA player.

The play of the Hawks’ Dallas Comegys was also interesting. At DePaul, Comegys was a dominating force. He thought he
could put forth the same effort he did in college and succeed in the NBA. However, the Pacers rudely awakened
him Friday night. They stole the ball from him when he was not careful, and they rejected shots that he
easily made in college. Obviously, Comegys will have to get an NBA mind and a little humility before he makes
an impact with the Hawks.

In addition to Spud Webb, the main attraction was the Hawks’ Dominique Wilkins, the “human highlight reel,” one of the
most electrifying players in the NBA. The crowd sensed that Wilkins was ready to soar, which he did on several
occasions early in the game, but he came up empty. Soon, however, the crowd got what it came for. With
1:58 left in the second quarter, Wilkins performed some aerial wizardry that awoke the Coliseum. As he led a Hawk
fast break, spectators rose to their feet. He then glided by a defender, leaped into the air some eight feet
shy of the basket, and sailed toward the goal. He held the ball low at first, then quickly brought it
above his head. Suddenly, he performed a forceful...roundhouse dunk, at which the crowd cheered. Despite Wilkins’ 30 points, including several
dunks, the Hawks fell behind midway through the third quarter. Sloppy play, indicative of pre-season ball, was the culprit. It
was obvious that the players had been apart for some time, as connections were missed, plays jumbled, and passes misfired.
The Pacers seemed to mitigate their mistakes by outrebounding the Hawks and by stellar performances from Person, Wayman Tisdale, and
Steve Stipanovich. The Hawks made several runs, but they could not catch the Pacers, who held on to win 111-101.
Even though they lost, the Hawks showed signs of greatness, of a team ready to climb into the upper echelon
of the NBA. Likewise, even though attendance was small, those there lent their wholehearted support, showing signs that many people
in Charlotte are ready for the NBA and are preparing to support a team through its trials of infancy.

The second half did not bring any relief for the Wildcats. Lafayette added on to their 21-point first-half tally in
the form of two more touchdowns and a field run for one score. Struncius connected on his third touchdown pass
of the day to Lechner from 16 yards out for the final Leopard touchdown. The ’Cats did manage a nine-play,
42-yard drive in the third quarter, culminating with quarterback Peter Hughes keeping it on a 12-yard run. The game saw
the Leopards accumulate 455 yards of total offense to Davidson’s 160. Adams finished the day with 115 yards of rushing,
matching the total for all finished. The game with 13 of 24 passing for 152 yards. Lafayette upped its record
to 2-1, 4-2, while Davidson fell to 0-3, 0-7. The Wildcats again take their campaign on the road Saturday, this
time to face Wofford in Spartanburg, S.C.

The world (series) turned upside-down
By ROB GRZESZCZAK and CARTER GARRET

It’s October once again; the leaves are turning, the air is crisp, and in the midst of the hoopla, baseball’s
fall classic is underway. Yes, the World Series has started. But something is different — something’s missing. Alas, as Slap
Maxwell aptly put it, the autumnal air is cut off by the Metrodome, and the smell of the freshly cut
grass has been replaced by astroturf. There are no more “terrible towels,” and no more “waves.” No, this year’s fad
is the “homer-hanky,” thousands of which are waved exuberantly in the “homer-dome.” In a cruel manner, the well-ordered world of
major league baseball has been severely shaken. For one thing, the Minnesota Twins are in the Series. The Missouri provide
the perfect foil for the Twin Minnesota. So it should be a great series, right? No, not really. Whatever happened
to the classic contests between the Dodgers and the Yanks, or the Reds and the Red Sox? Well, today’s teams
are led by a different breed of players. No more Garveys, Jacksons, or Roses. No more Big Red Machines, either.
Today it’s the Laudners, the Penas, and the Oquendos. You know, the guys who can hit in the .150-.210 range
and still get the starting nod.

In the opposing dugout sits Tony Pena, the St. Louis Cardinals’ catcher. Tony hit for a higher percentage (.214) than
Laudner, and on top of that drove in one more run (for a total of 44). In addition to these
scary stats, Pena swiped an alarming six bases this season, contributing to the Cardinals’ overall team speed. Indeed, Tony truly
takes after the fine line of Cardinal catchers, which includes such greats as Bob Uecker and Joe Garagiola. But, at
thirty years of age, it may only be a matter of time before Pena is flashing signals in baseball’s land
of the lost — the Japanese league.

The Twins come from baseball’s American League West, a division stocked full of rookies, old men, and “players to be
named later.” The competition is fierce here, as the Twinkies had to fight off the A’s and the Angels, not
to mention perennial contenders Seattle and Texas. The Twins also suffer the dread of representing a whole state instead of
a city. But on the field, Minnesota is noted for its power, and that’s definitely their big advantage in the
matchup. The Cardinals, on the other hand, don’t have any power. With Jack Clark out, the Redbirds are led by
such sluggers as Ozzie Smith, Jose Oquendo, and Tommy Herr, all of whom combined for a hefty total of three
round-trippers this season. But the Cardinals hit for average, play good defense, and possess excellent team speed. Some real problems
start to surface when you consider the state in which the St. Louis Cardinals play. It’s actually not Missouri itself,
but rather the nickname. What exactly do you make of “the show me state?” Show me what? And why should
we show Missourians their own state? But on the baseball diamond, the Cardinals of St. Louis, Tony truly takes after
the fine line of Cardinal catchers, which includes such greats as Bob Uecker and Joe Garagiola. But, at thirty years
of age, it may only be a matter of time before Pena is flashing signals in baseball’s land of the
lost — the Japanese league.

So who is going to win? Well, that’s not really a fair question, as the writers of this article have
already watched the Twinkies take the first two at home. But the Redbirds aren’t out of it yet. Look for
the Cards to pull a trick or two at home in Busch stadium. Many people, however, know that the Cardinals
are hungry for a victory after letting the title slip away in ’85, so such on-field capers might be anticipated
by the Twins. But tricks or no tricks, we can’t predict the outcome, and on top of that we certainly
can’t predict too much excitement. In fact, we can only express our true anguish and regret from this whole affair
— that being ABC’s decision to go ahead and replace the highly entertaining show “Dolly” with America’s favorite pastime. Folks,
it’s a crazy world out there.
