Friday, December 11, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Christmas Story: sappy, stereotypical, sacred satire
By SUZANNE CRAYMER and JENNIFER HOFFMAN

Jen: Thanks for joining us for another week at the movies. This week we’ll be reviewing the holiday special A Christmas Story. Across the aisle from me is Suzy Q., film critic from the Davidsonian.

Suz: Hello, I’m very pleased to be here. Joining me on my right is Davidsonian film critic Jenner. Welcome to the movies. This week’s film, set in the 1940s, follows the trials and tribulations of a young boy whose greatest worry is that he will not receive a Red Ryder BB gun.

Jen: Now wait a minute, Suz, if you’re going to start with sweeping generalizations, at least be accurate. This low-budget, high-comedy film takes the sacred tradition of Christmas and satirizes the trivialities while retaining the deep feelings at its very heart. It’s a nostalgic, “feel good” movie.

Suz: Certainly, in the case of this film, nostalgic simply means stereotypical. The sweet little family of four, complete with motherly mother, eccentric father, strange kid brother, and avid, cute oldest child are just the sorts of things we’re all tired of seeing in these “holiday” films.

Jen: Yes, the entire point of the parody is to laugh at all-too-familiar looks at the past, the rosy remembrances. Melinda Dillon and Darren McGavin play stereotypic parents, but their roles are intentionally humorous and avoid the resort to slap-stick comedy.

Suz: I’ll agree with you there, some of the antics of the family are quite amusing -- the mother gets the youngest son to eat by teaching him to eat like a pig, the father curses the hot water heater, the oldest boy runs from bullies. But as the plot ceases to develop, the roles deteriorate and the formerly funny narration of the oldest son turns into conventional drivel.

Jen: Finally we’ve identified the triviality of Christmas! While the movie does drag during the middle, the ending is particularly strong. Unlike the conventional holiday flick, Christmas Story’s Christmas day is not a glorified climax. The Christmas spirit is the only convention which escapes ridicule, and I believe it is this fact that you seem to be objecting to. Perhaps you would prefer an unconventional mass murder ending--”Merry Christmas, Jason?”

Suz: Actually, anything would be better than this lumbering, stumbling plot: Jason, Rambo, or even Freddy Kruger. Christmas day is the only climax I could find, and it is indeed boring, sappy, and stereotypical. The film’s funniest part, and it wasn’t even that funny, did in fact ridicule the Christmas spirit. Remember the sadistic Santa Claus and his sneering helpers, or were you asleep during that one?

Jen: The “shopping mall Santa scene” comments not on the true meaning of Christmas, but on the imposters who have forgotten it. And even though the whole film moves inexorably toward December 25th, the ending is purposely anti-climactic. Overall, I recommend this movie to all who still remember Christmas from a child’s perspective. Even if you’re not into the spirit, it’s still worth seeing, if only to watch the fine performance by Melinda Dillon. While A Christmas Story has its weak moments, you’re still bound to laugh, chuckle, or “ho ho ho.” There’s a front-row seat waiting for you this Friday at 7:30 and 9:45 in the 900 Room for only $1. We hope to see you at the movies.

Colorized Capra: capitalist corruption
By FRANK LORD and KEVIN DUNN

We have seen the face of Satan, and he looks alarmingly like Ted Turner. Last Thursday night, we went to see It’s a Wonderful Life in order to write this review. From the moment we saw Jimmy Stewart’s purple hat, we knew something was very, very wrong. The film had been colorized; the film had been raped. Our morals did not permit us to remain. In short, we left. Thus, this article will not be a typical review. Instead, it will be a sort of editorial on the idea of colorization.

The concept that film can be fine art is the basis of the Davidson College Cinema Classics Program. Accepting this idea elevates film to the same artistic level as any of the other visual arts. Therefore, a film should be treated with the same respect that is accorded to any great painting or sculpture. Therefore, deciding to add color to a film simply because it is in black and white is exactly the same as deciding to add color to Picasso’s Guernica simply because he chose to paint it in black and white.

In other words, any work of visual art is made through a process of aesthetic decisions. Each of these decisions contributes to the final result. In this case, Frank Capra chose to make his film in black and white because he felt that it was the medium best suited to his purposes. So, we arrive in the 1980s and the rights to this film, as well as many others, are sold to one Ted Turner. Like any other good capitalist, his motive is profit. Deciding that black and white films are worth less on the market, he avails himself of the latest computer technology and suddenly we have color versions of b&w films.

All this aside, It’s a Wonderful Life is not a very good film. (Yes, we have seen it previous to this occasion.) Granted, it has become a sort of Christmas classic, but we both feel that you should go and see it only if you are the sort of person who enjoys eating sugar straight out of the bag while stuffing marshmallows in your ears. It is, in fact, sickeningly sweet. It’s a Wonderful Life will be shown in the 900 Room this Saturday night at 7:00 & 9:45. Hopefully, someone will turn off the color.

A movie based on sex, drugs and rock and roll Less Than Zero shouldn’t have turned out as bad as this one has.
By BRUCE PLOURDE

Imagine MTV with a plot. Surreal scenes with bizarre props; the latest word in fashion; brilliant colors; teenage heart-searing melodrama; and, of course, the rock music setting the pace of the action, are crucial to such an undertaking. With almost two hours to kill, the producer has ample time to create that for which the youth of America constantly cry out, what the youth need in their lives more than anything else, another teen anthem. A rebel without a cause, a peer who feels like the Everyteen and lives like the Everyteen wishes he could, will never lack for supporters. The 1950s had their James Dean. The 1960s had the Beatles. The 1970s had Nixon. And now, the 1980s have (a drum roll, if you please) Robert Downey, Jr. A good idea, except that the characters are anybody but Everyteens. Their parents live in mansions near Palm Springs.California. Clay (Andrew McCarthy) drives from disco to disco in his red Corvette. Blair (Jami Gertz) dresses to kill but can’t seem to remove the coke spoon from her nose. Tragic hero Julian (Downey) freebases so much he barfs and drools throughout most of his scenes. Their characters are so celluloided and shallow that one has a difficult time working up any kind of sympathy for them. But somnambulatory directing and a poor script can’t entirely explain the failure of the movie. Granted, they are important in the creation of a good film, but even with second-rate directing and writing a movie can still be a success if the people before the camera do their job well. The director never appears on screen, so the audience can just as well do without him. And a good actor can take the most lame turns of phrase and form them into a statement. The cast, the element of the movie which must engage our human interest, can work around these problems. Or it can add to the existing problems. Unfortunately, this offshoot of the Brat Pack performs the latter task.

McCarthy is certainly the most inept of the three. He has one voice and three faces, and often dons his happy face when his irate face or his confused face would more suit the purpose. When his girlfriend, who sleeps with his best friend while he’s away at school, tells him that their relationship has changed forever, he just smiles contentedly into her face. When he visits her in her dressing room and she asks if he spoke to Julian, he beams happily. McCarthy is a very limited actor who conveys no expression whatsoever. He may do this intentionally, but he comes off looking childish. What’s worse, when McCarthy wants to convey his inner state of anxiety, he moves his lips around like he’s just sucked on a lemon. It’s amazing that somebody would hire him to play in this movie.

Nothing twists the meaning of a scene, nothing is more fatal to a movie, than appearances by the camera crew. As the men and women who make the microcosm revolve around the actors, the camera crew does a marvelous job and perhaps should get more credit than they do. Nonetheless, they should stay behind the camera and not let their efforts show. In Less than Zero they appear to revel in making cameo appearances. For instance, one scene takes place in a well-lit tunnel. Clay’s car is stopped dead center in the field of vision. While he walks toward his car his rear-view mirror reflects what must be his own smiling face. But the stationary face doesn’t match his bobbing figure, and it becomes apparent that the man, either hunched in the back seat or standing in the background, is not supposed to appear. A later scene swings around Blair’s wrecked apartment, where a man in a blue uniform crouches behind a partially veiling white curtain, a man who made his debut in cinema without him (or the editor either) apparently knowing it. One of the last scenes, sweeping along the vast barren desert up to Clay’s Corvette, for some reason includes the shadow of the helicopter carrying the camera crew. A nice technique in home movies, but not as highly acclaimed in professional cinema.

A movie based on sex, drugs, and rock and roll shouldn’t have turned out as bad as this one has. It presents those three elements of the teen anthem in such a grotesque manner as to make them not only repulsive but sickening. If Less than Zero hadn’t been based on a recent book written by a college student and peer, one might see the hand of Nancy Reagan and her “Just say no!” campaign. At first the semblance of an “art for art’s sake” movie, it slips into a lesson in morality, and suffers horribly under the weight of the responsibility.

As I was writing this review I decided I wanted to tie the audience’s apathy toward the characters to the apathy of Davidson students. I would have written, “How will these poor, affluent kids get out of their dilemma? Well, as any Davidson College student will gladly suggest, ‘Who cares?’” But just as I was formulating such a passage, the Chamber Maidens came up from behind me. They cooed to me: “Be easy. You are writing for the newspaper of your beloved college. You are speaking directly to your classmates. Don’t bruise their delicate egos,” they warned me. “We’ve had enough Davidson-bashing for a while. Don’t belittle the student body. Don’t criticize. Herald. Praise. But above all, be pure.” I turned to the Chamber Maidens, stammering, “Who’s afraid of Virginia Woolf?” I realized that I was. I had neither the desire nor the strength to judge them, so I acquiesced to the Chamber Maidens. I vowed I would not judge the whole by the inadequacies of the few. I shall flatter and deceive when called upon. I shall stack up my prejudices and sit upon them when I write my reviews. I shall let the Maidens live.

SPOOF, from p.7

Rudolph’s red nose, the masquerade comes to a close. Crawling on hands and knees, looking for traces of Santa, you find his workshop. Perhaps in a closet, under a bed, in the garage, or up in the attic. The Christmas candle is snuffed. Santa is no longer a fat old man with a long white beard, but a skinny, rather stern man whom you call “Dad.” And Mrs. Claus is none other than Mom. Christmas loses its magic.

“The teenage years ran out for me before that particular magic was rekindled, before the Christmas rolled around when I found Santa Claus again, not as a fairy-tale friend from the North Pole, but as a reality,” writes Boone. It’s funny to think, but college years are the years that Santa becomes real again in our lives. Indeed, as someone suggested, “The Teenager of Today is Father to the Santa Claus of Tomorrow.” Santa Claus in his many forms is integral to Christmas’ time of giving. He is an embodiment of giving in all forms and perhaps an extension of the Christ child’s gift to mankind.

It’s true, the bells attached to Donder, Blitzen, Rudolph, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, and all the other reindeer ring loudly for the child as he is growing and fade as the sleigh flies away in the night sky. Perhaps, though, with age there may be, as in The Polar Express, a reaffirmation of the Christmas Spirit. “At one time most of my friends could hear the bell, but as years passed, it fell silent for all of them. Even Sarah found one Christmas that she could no longer hear its sweet sound. Though I’ve grown old, the bell still rings for me as it does for all who truly believe.” Christmas. Think about it for a minute.