Features - Real Men will satisfy hedonistic pleasure-seekers
By BRUCE PLOURDE

Allow me to digress and make my formal apology before I begin. I wrote some movie reviews last year for
The Davidsonian under the assumption that most readers would have some semblance of culture and would appreciate some of the
finer aspects of cinema. However, having read one or two reviews this year I find that, for many, I was
citing Chaucer where Mother Goose was called for. Some of you are counting on three ingredients in a movie: dead
bodies, car chases, and bare hooters. So in the interest of attending to the expectations of as many as possible,
keeping with the principles of representation for all, and other such principles which formed the living democracy of this great
country of ours, I shall in the future endeavor to broaden my scope of attention.

Real Men is a decent parody of spy movies, very similar to The In-Laws yet more with an eye toward
the entire James Bond genre. There aren’t many car chases, but there are shootouts a-plenty; the body count escalates at
a steady pace throughout, and there is one bared hooter early on to attract attention. There’s even a bar called
“Big Ed’s Cocktails.” From that encapsulation one would assume correctly that, though the movie manages to satirize all that makes
spy flicks great, it caters more to fun than intellectual humor. The plot of the film is a negligible nuisance
and interferes very little. The movie concentrates largely on the character development of the men of the story, the real
man who learns to love and the meek man who learns not to run from a fight. Like any great
comedy team, their personalities conflict, producing humorous friction.

Nick Pirandello (Jamey Belushi), the “cliché-killer,” receives his assignment from CIA headquarters: retrieve the stolen map and arrange to meet
the UFOs at the predetermined place and time. He must negotiate with them, having two options. He can accept the
“good package” which will save all life on earth from a fatally toxic chemical spill. Or, he can ask for
the “big gun,” a weapon so powerful it will blow away an entire planet. Their price — a glass of
water, and he takes his choice. The CIA, in the interests of national defense, wants the big gun. At first
a hard-core company man, Nick eventually develops misgivings about the mission and the misplaced values of his agency. Despite his
disillusionment, he can still dodge bullets from twenty gunmen while standing in the open and outgun every last one of
them. He needs no special weapons; he invents them as he needs them. Who, indeed, but Nick Pirandello can piece
together a nail-shooting machine gun with vacuum parts and a band-aid box, except maybe James Bond? His Bob Hope nose
and John Belushi eyebrows endow him well as a comic actor. Fortunately, he also has some of his brother’s talent,
and takes advantage of the script’s occasional opportunities to clown around in the impromptu fashion of Chevy Chase.

Bob Wilson (John Ritter) has an “average, maybe less” life, with a secure job as an insurance salesman and a
doting, simple family. In this role, Ritter recaptures the likeable wimpishness of Jack Tripper in “Three’s Company.” He is a
man of resolutely firm jelly. He doesn’t take being pushed around without appropriately falling down. In comparison to Nick, he
is not a “real man.” His only quality of interest to the CIA is his resemblance to a key scientist
who is killed by an assassin. He is conscripted (kidnapped, really) by Nick into the service of his country. Thus
begins Bob’s transition from innocence to experience. His coming of age results in anguishing trials and crises which, when taken
in their silly context, are quite funny. Finding himself the protégé of a madman, he takes every opportunity to escape
and disassociate himself from Nick, but learns that he has only two choices, Nick or the mob of assassins who
constantly shoot at them. Bob can’t seem to understand why these assassins won't listen to sense. When he learns the
importance of the mission, the impending doom to “all the trees, all the birdies, and all the children,” he takes
responsibility and, under his mentor’s influence, gradually comes to realize what it takes to become a man of integrity and
grit. He realizes that, after all, a little violence never hurt anybody, especially criminals.

©1987 BY Matt GROENING

DO YOU BELIEVE IN:
ASTRAL PROJECTION?
UFOs?
TAROT CARDS?
BIGFOOT?
CHAIN LETTERS?
SPOOKS?
THE TOOTH FAIRY?
GIVING GENEROUSLY TO MYSTICAL AUTHORITY FIGURES?

THEN COME ON DOWN! WE'LL CHANNEL PSYCHIC INSIGHTS & PAST LIVES. YOU MAY HAVE BEEN A DALLAS POLICE OFFICER OR
A PRINCESS FROM TAURUS. WERE YOU A LEPRECHAUN IN YOUR PAST LIFE? FIND OUT TODAY AT MYSTERIOUS TRANCES!

AKBAR & JEFF’S REINCARNATION HUT

SEE AKBAR AND JEFF GO INTO THEIR PREVIOUS LIVES. ISN'T IT AMAZING THAT WELL-FED, PRIVILEGED NORTH AMERICANS WITH TIME AND
MONEY TO SPARE CAN FIND SUCH FASCINATING PAST LIVES IN THE BEST OF ALL POSSIBLE WORLDS? COME CELEBRATE AT AKBAR
& JEFF’S REINCARNATION HUT, LOCATED ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE ELFY OF ATLANTIS. WE'LL CHANNEL COSMIC AURAS AND SPIRITS FROM
OTHER DIMENSIONS.DISTANT PAST AND SUMMON THEM TO THE HERE-AND-NOW! * CASTOR & POLLUX * GOG & MAGOG * TWEEDLEDUM &
TWEEDLEDEE * ELVIS & JESSE * LEOPOLD & LOEB CHANNELING LIKE YOU'VE NEVER SEEN IT BEFORE WE'LL CHANNEL SURPRISING AMOUNTS
OF MONEY OUT OF YOUR WALLETS AND INTO OURS! A COURAGEOUS REINCARNATION WIZARD! WE'D END UP RIGHT HERE AS MONEY
ON OUR HANDS IN THIS AMAZING TODAY! DO NOT DELAY! THE OLD MALL, BETWEEN VIDEO HUT AND TOFU HUT.

Nick’s cold instincts with his own sense of justice he learns to use force with prudence. Movie to hedonistic, Friday
night pleasure seekers out for a few yuks. For those who wish to more seriously confront the issue of violence
as a force of evil, it’s in here, but it’s merely the coating of a comedy-filled M&M. Best find a
theater that is still playing Full Metal Jacket.

By FRANK LORD

From the start, it is important to understand that writing a review of Ingmar Bergman’s The Silence is something of
a paradox, or, at least, a contradiction in terms. You see, the central theme of The Silence is communication or,
rather, the impossibility of true communication in the modern world. Thus, I am here to communicate with you about a
film that essentially denies the possibility of communication. Get the picture?

The plot — if you can call it a plot in the traditional sense — revolves around two sisters, one
of whom has her son with her. They are staying in a hotel somewhere in Europe during World War II.
The link that keeps the two women together is that they are lovers. Their relationship serves as a premise for
the erotic images that appear continually in the film. However, in the context of the film, these images become sterile.
Eventually, contrary to what you might expect, these sometimes graphic depictions of sex lose any meaning that they might have
had for us, becoming, in the process, a metaphor for the lack of understanding that each character has for the
others. As one of the sisters says to a male lover, “How nice it is that we don’t understand each
other.” In fact, the film is held together by metaphors for human misunderstanding.

Besides the metaphor of sex, there are two others that are equally central to the film: the war and the
language. The war plays only an intermittent part in the film. It is neither frequently discussed nor adequately explained. This
leads to a sort of disorientation in the viewer which is precisely what Bergman wants. By leaving out whatever relationship
there might be between the main characters and the war, Bergman tells the audience that the characters themselves don’t understand
it, and since the viewer does not know anything about the war, neither does he. Thus, the viewer is as
lost as the characters in a sea of non-comprehension.

Like the war, language is used to confuse the viewer. The disorienting effects of the language in the film are
intentional. Continually, the two sisters are unable to communicate with those around them because they do not speak the same
language. In the subtitled version of the original Swedish, most of the speeches in Swedish are subtitled, but none of
the speeches by characters who speak other languages are. This is not a mistake. Bergman’s Swedish audience would have been
unable to understand the parts of the film that are in German, and he knew that. He used their inability
to comprehend foreign languages to intensify their reaction to the sisters' lack of comprehension. The same effect is achieved in
the subtitled version by leaving the speeches in German unsubtitled.

In all, what I have said may not make much sense, but remember this: Bergman intentionally disorients his audience so
that they will be able to empathize more clearly with the disorientation of the film’s three central characters. If Bergman
had clearly explained to the audience exactly what occurs in the film, it would be even more incomprehensible than it
already is. This way, at least, we understand that we are not supposed to understand.

For those of us who are used to films that are based on developments in plot, this all seems a
bit odd. My suggestion is to suspend your rationality for a little while. This is a film that is meant
to be felt as it develops. After you have seen the whole thing, you can attempt to break it down
into logical parts, but to attempt to understand it as the plot unfolds will only lead to further confusion. (For
those of you who have not gotten it yet, that is exactly what Bergman intends.)

You should see this film, if only for the cinematography. Sven Nykvist, who was Bergman’s photographer for many years, does
an absolutely amazing job in this film. Without a doubt, this is some of the most incredible black and white
cinematography that I have ever seen. Ultimately, this film will be, for those of you that see it, a new
experience. Don’t shy away from it because of that. If nothing else, you'll see something that could never have come
out of the hype factories of Hollywood, and that can’t be all bad.

This week's Cinema Classic, The Silence, will be showing Saturday and Sunday nights at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.
