By DINA MAZZELLA

On March 12, the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra performed three works by established composers in Love Auditorium. What’s so special about
that? One of these works was composed by Davidson’s own Wilmer Welsh, chairman of the music department. The symphony, entitled
Davidson College, was first performed March 10 in Charlotte’s Ovens Auditorium.

Davidson College was commissioned by the Charlotte Symphony and was written in honor of Davidson’s sesquicentennial. The funding for the
project was provided by the North Carolina Arts Council, which paid Welsh a $5,000 stipend as he took a sabbatical
year off to write the symphony. Welsh’s work consists of four movements: “Work,” “Play,” “Faith,” and “Witness.”

“It will not be descriptive in that it tells the story,” Welsh has said, “but it may convey the mood
of the place.” According to the Chronicle of Higher Education, Welsh said that “The unifying element in all this is
a twelve-tone row, which I used as a source for all four movements. Otherwise, they would be unrelated tone poems.
The twelve-tone row... needs to provide the melodic and harmonic source material that, in earlier years, the key of D
major would have given to someone writing in that key. So it must be very carefully developed to provide enough
musical richness to sustain the work.”

The symphony was conducted by Leo Driehuys, himself a Davidson resident. Welsh said he worked well with Driehuys and the
Symphony. The two weeks of rehearsal were “a happy experience.” Welsh admitted sweating it out before the performance. “This is
the first time it’s been done and no one knows how the audience will respond.” Apparently, though, his fears were
unjustified. Critical response to the work’s premiere was very positive. Fleur Paysour, music reviewer of the Charlotte Observer, writes that
Welsh’s work is “honest; there’s not a trace of artifice, pretension or gimmickry. The composer knows where he stands.”

Reactions to Thursday’s performance were similarly positive. The full house in Love Auditorium Thursday night awarded him a standing ovation.
Junior Corliss Carter thought the work was “impressive.” Davidson College is Welsh’s second major work, his first being Symphony No.
1 in E Flat, which the Charlotte Symphony premiered in 1973. He has also written a variety of smaller pieces,
including sonatas, preludes, and processions.

Panel focuses on Davidson dating scene

By SUSAN PEARSALL

“Is dating dead at Davidson?” This question was the focus of a panel discussion, moderated by Housing Director Tom Jennings,
which took place Tuesday, March 10 in the 900 Room. Panel members were Paul Kosmas, a senior, Caryn Coppedge, a
junior, Chew Jones, sophomore, and Pete Halverstadt and Lucia Kendall, freshmen. Twice as many females as males attended the panel
discussion.

The factor which was most often discussed, as both a help to platonic male-female relationships and a hindrance to casual
dating, was Davidson’s student body. While its small student body fosters more and closer platonic relationships between the sexes, it
also causes the feeling that everyone on campus knows whom one is seeing. Peer pressure of this nature, according to
Coppedge, has caused a gap between the heaviness of an exclusive relationship and a strictly platonic friendship. Casual dating is
frowned upon, said panelist Kosmas, because it carries the stigma of “whoredom.” The closeness of Davidson life also causes problems
when one considers the risk involved in a breakup; one must come into contact with a former lover much too
often for comfort, panelists said. Risk is another hindering factor to dating; the person who asks for the date may
fear future embarrassment if theDate goes badly. Patterson Court date functions add an additional aspect to the unique problems of
potential daters. Some members of the audience complained that those who choose not to get a date for every party
are viewed negatively, and that this constitutes pressure against dating. Others stated that the parties create an inordinate amount of
interest in the private affairs of other students because they spawn gossipy speculation about “relationships.”

Creative writing competition submissions are currently being accepted for the Vereen Bell and R. Windley Hall creative writing awards and
the Charles E. Lloyd essay award. All submissions must reach a member of the English department by 5 p.m., Wednesday,
April 1. No name should appear on any manuscript itself but should be on a separate enclosed sheet of paper.

The Vereen Bell Award is for students above the freshman class. Prizes of $75, $50, and $25 will be awarded
for first, second, and third place respectively. Entries must be original fiction, poetry, or drama. Creative writing is open to
all students, who may submit in as many categories as they wish. Poems should be submitted as groups. Entries must
be typed, double spaced (poetry may be single-spaced) and must be on one side of the sheet only.

The R. Windley Hall Award is a creative writing award for freshmen only. The first prize winner will receive $50,
and second place will win $25. All rules for this award are the same as those for the Vereen Bell
competition.

The Charles E. Lloyd Award is open to all students above the freshman class. Submissions must be essays. This includes
term papers and personal essays, persuasive essays, and satire or humor. Entries are limited to fifteen pages and must be
both typed and double-spaced. Entries will be judged on the basis of prose style, originality, clarity, structure, and substance. The
winner will receive an undetermined monetary award.

The awards will be presented at a special ceremony at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, April 23 in the Room. All
entrants are expected to attend. The Vereen Bell Award will be judged by North Carolina Poet Laureate Sam Ragan. The
R. Windley Hall and Charles Lloyd Awards will be judged by another panel.

Many agreed, however, that these parties generally aid the dating situation because they do encourage casual dates. The female members
of the audience also briefly considered reasons for dating problems here such as: 1) males are intimidated by the intelligence
of the females here, causing males to seek dates with “imported” girls from neighboring colleges; 2) males think that all
the freshmen girls are “taken” by upperclassmen; 3) many males consider Davidson women to be too straight-laced. However, no agreement
on any of these opinions could be reached.

So what is the state of dating at Davidson? Freshman Mary Beale says, “I do not think the ‘dating situation’
is all that bad. A lot depends on expectations and how willing people are to take risks.” Halverstadt cited such
problems as stereotyping and a lack of communication. Coppedge believes that “because Davidson students are trained to know as much
as possible and to control many situations, we try to carry these traits over into dating. We urge each other
to communicate, but we forget that it’s O.K. to communicate indecision or confusion... all but being ‘just friends’ or being
involved in a ‘relationship’ is not possible.”

The Davidsonian needs writers and production editors. For more information, contact any member of the editorial board.

Other pieces performed by the Symphony Thursday night were Mendelssohn’s Symphony No. 4 in A Major and Barber’s Concerto for
Piano and Orchestra, Opus 38. The concert was broadcast live by WDAV (89.9 FM).
