Davidson Ranked 15th

In its latest survey of American higher education, U.S. News and World Report ranked Davidson College 15th among national liberal-arts
colleges in the United States. Williams College (Mass.) claimed the highest ranking.

The survey, which appeared in the October 26 issue of the magazine, rated American colleges and universities on the basis
of questionnaires sent to 1,329 college presidents. Of these, 760 presidents (60%) responded. Each president ranked only those schools that
fell in the same category as the school over which he presided.

The accompanying article cited Davidson for its “interdisciplinary humanities program that examines a time period through its politics, literature, religion,
and art.”

U.S. News defined the 125 national liberal-arts colleges as those schools that “offer small classes with lots of individual attention,
a first-rate faculty committed to teaching undergraduates, plus an unswerving belief that courses in the arts, sciences, and humanities best
prepare students for life — and work.”

Davidson in D.C.

This summer, the Department of Political Science will conduct its annual Davidson in Washington program of work and study in
the nation’s capital. Each student taking part in the eight-week program will earn two course credits through service as an
intern in the Washington area and through involvement in a seminar taught by a Davidson faculty member.

The number of participants is limited to 16, selected from among applicants in the sophomore and junior classes who have
at least a 2.5 grade point average and who have completed appropriate coursework in political science. In exceptional circumstances, consideration
will also be given to applicants who are freshmen or whose grade point average is slightly lower than 2.5.

The deadline for application is December 15, 1987. Interested students should contact program director Dr. Mary Thornberry in 326 Chambers,
ext. 283.

Persian Gulf “Teach-In”

On Monday, October 26, Professors of Political Science Dr. Louis Ortmayer and Dr. Jack Perry and Professor of History Dr.
Ralph Levering will lead a discussion on the current situation in the Persian Gulf and the ramifications of American involvement
in the region. The discussion will focus upon audience participation and will take place in the Morrison Room at 5:00
p.m.

9 am to 5:30 pm, Monday thru Saturday
Quality and Fashion Apparel for Men and Women

128 North Main St. Downtown Mooresville
Phones 664-4711 and 663-3701

News Shorts

Stop Smoking

Beginning Tuesday, November 10, “Fresh Start,” the American Cancer Society’s program for individuals who desire to stop smoking, will be
held at Home Federal Savings and Loan in Cornelius. The program consists of four sessions extending over a two-week period.

There is no fee for the program. Participants will be required, however, to pay $25 which will be returned on
the last night if he or she has attended all four sessions of the program.

The program is sponsored by the American Cancer Society, Home Federal Savings and Loan, and the Davidson Community Center. Registration
may be completed by calling Pat Johnson at 892-3329 or by writing to Fresh Start, Post Office Box 579, Davidson
Community Center, Davidson, NC 28036.

Christmas Parade

December 5, a Saturday, has been set as the date for the Fifth Annual North Mecklenburg Christmas Parade. The parade
is sponsored by the Lions Clubs of both Davidson and Cornelius-Lake Norman and by the volunteer fire departments of Davidson
and Cornelius. Proceeds will go to community projects including the acquisition of new fire-fighting equipment, the day care center, and
Camp Dogwood.

All groups affiliated with Davidson College are invited to be a part of the parade or to consider the possibility
of making donations. Applications may be obtained at Davidson Town Hall or by calling Pat Johnson at 892-3349 or 892-3360.

Davidson to Speak

Dr. Chalmers Gaston Davidson, Professor Emeritus of History at Davidson College, will present an address at the fall meeting of
the Bluffton Historical Preservation Society on Sunday, October 25 at 4 p.m. in Bluffton, SC.

Dr. Davidson will outline, with special emphasis on St. Luke’s Parish families, the findings of the research which produced his
book “The Last Foray: The South Carolina Planters of 1860: A Sociological Study.” The book has been described as “an
outstanding work of total family history of the time before the South’s brilliance was extinguished by the War Between the
States.” The Last Foray is now in its third printing.

The meeting will be held in the Church of the Cross on Calhoun Street in Bluffton.

Friday, October 23, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN
