Friday, September 25, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vee Kay Knight, ’88: It's just way too much for laundry service—especially if it is mandatory. Some people don’t even use the service. I’ve been here three years and I may send a load in once a month, and when I get it back it’s usually burned to a crisp... I didn’t even know I was paying that much. First of all, I feel that $310 is—

Morrow Reeves ’88: Why is it mandatory? Not everybody wants to do their laundry there. Some people prefer to do it on their own, and if that’s the case, they should have that option to use the money they pay the laundry to do their own... buy their own detergent...

Patricio Zaldumbide ’90: Well, I don’t think it should be mandatory. You should have the option of doing your own clothes. I personally don’t agree with it.

What do you think about Davidson's laundry fee?

Frank Whitaker ’89: I think it’s a quality laundry service that we are privileged to have here at Davidson College. I don’t mind paying quality prices for a quality product.

Robert Nesbit
Rufus Timberlake ’89: Let me put it this way: When I was deciding where to go to school, it came down to two schools—either Washington and Lee or Davidson. When I found out Washington and Lee didn’t have a laundry service, I decided to come to Davidson within the next two hours.

Secrecy without smoke-filled rooms
Examining the Davidson tenure process
By TRIPP HELMS

A recent tenure decision at Davidson has brought the tenure system into the forefront of campus discussion and caused many to give the system a second look. Many students, however, might be unsure of what exactly tenure means and how it is granted.

Tenure is designed to protect the freedom of professors to exercise the right of free speech in and out of the classroom. It does this by giving a professor a lifetime appointment so that presenting controversial or unpopular ideas will not get a professor fired.

The Davidson system for granting tenure follows the general guidelines set forth by the American Association of University Professors and is specifically outlined in the code of faculty employment at Davidson. As a regular faculty member, he or she is usually given a two-year renewable contract. During the second year, the renewal decision is made by the administration on the basis of evaluations by faculty peers, students, department chairmen, and the administration.

If the contract is renewed, the professor is given another two-year contract. During the fourth year, the evaluation process is repeated and another renewal decision is made. A second contract renewal, again for a period of two years, begins the process that culminates in either the granting of tenure or the termination of employment. A third evaluation is carried out. Although it is more extensive and the standards are higher, the criteria remain the same: teaching ability, professional activity, and service.

Teaching ability carries the most weight in a tenure review according to Robert Williams, Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty. Professional activity and service are also very important to the decision even though they are given less weight. Professional activity is not limited to the publication of books; it also includes participation in conferences, research, and sabbatical programs. Williams believes that this professional activity “reflects a quality of mind that extends into the classroom.”

Contributions fall into three categories: “concern for students, service to the institution, and service to the wider community.” Availability to students, work on faculty committees, and participation in church and civic organizations are among the contributions considered.

Evaluations from faculty, students, and outside sources are presented to the Dean of Faculty under the present system. Based on these evaluations, the Dean makes...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A recommendation to the President, who then takes it to the Board of Trustees for action. Normally the President and Trustees do not disagree with the Dean’s recommendation, so it is the deciding factor in granting or not granting tenure. All faculty and outside evaluations are held strictly confidential. This confidentiality creates a problem, states Williams, because no one but he and the President know all of the factors in a decision. The result is that the faculty may complain about a decision without knowing all of the circumstances. According to Williams, most institutions have a faculty-elected personnel committee that sees all of the evidence and makes a recommendation or offers advice. Williams would like to see this system implemented at Davidson because “the faculty does not fully accept the present system.” The creation of a faculty personnel committee at Davidson will be discussed this year. The last time this measure was introduced, the faculty voted against it and for the present system. Recent evaluation procedures (CNFP) of Davidson College. The criteria for all evaluations are the same. When a professor first begins, the criteria for all evaluations are: teaching ability and quality, professional activity, and service contributions. These contributions are also weighed, although not as heavily as teaching ability and professional activity. Even though the quantity of time available to spend on teaching is reduced by professional activity, says Williams, this activity enhances the quality of that teaching time. A professor’s service contributions are also weighed, although not as heavily as teaching ability and professional activity.

HALL, from page 1

Older students usually desire privacy and, more importantly, don’t have to be under the constant supervision of a hall counselor. The dorms will be completely furnished and the cost of utilities will be included in the housing fee. The colonial-style dorms were designed by Grover Meetze, Director of Facilities Planning at Davidson College. Construction is scheduled to begin in November of this year. If the Belk parking lot site is chosen, Jennings said that the parking facilities at the rappelling course will probably be expanded to make up for the lost parking.

LAUNDRY, from page 1

The Comptroller’s office has received many phone calls from students regarding the laundry fee being mandatory. In response to concerns, the Comptroller’s office has asserted that the laundry fee must be mandatory in order for continued operation of any laundry services. Ms. Beaver stresses that the laundry service is here for the students and that any suggestions they may have, she will be glad to listen to them. She also reminds the students that the laundry will justly compensate for any articles the laundry damages or loses.

SERVICE, from page 1

The Y-Student Service Corps (YSSC) helps organize student service involvement through a variety of programs such as CROP, the Day Care Center, and the Senior Citizens Program. In addition to the programs offered by the YSSC, Patterson Court houses also feel very strongly about their commitment to service to Davidson and the community,” said Ginger Broaddus, Patterson Court Council president. According to Broaddus, the majority of houses undertake many service projects during the course of the school year, such as hosting foreign children, visiting senior citizens, tutoring children, and having parties to raise money for various charities. Part of the task force’s job will be to find out how students can improve on what they are doing. The task force will convene for the first time on October 12. Its final report is scheduled to be perused by the Davidson community in their spring meeting.