Monday, September 21, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Baker Sports Complex meets with delays
Higher costs equal better facilities
By GEORGE KURANI

After some delay, the development of the Davidson College sports complex will soon move forward with construction set to begin sometime in December. The sports facilities, which will be named the Baker Sports Complex, will cost an estimated $17 million and will help meet Davidson’s need for improved intercollegiate and intramural activities.

Although no major obstacles have stood in the way of starting construction, a rise in the estimated cost of the complex has required further consideration by Davidson’s Board of Trustees. After reviewing past plans for the facility, the Trustees met and voted that the design required some modification to better serve the college community. The original plans, which would have cost about $13 million to construct, were modified in favor of an improved complex featuring several design changes. Along with these improvements, however, also came the increase in the cost estimate to the present day figure of $17 million.

Dean Jones, Assistant Director of Development, feels that the change in plans is in the best interest of the college and the students. “If there has been any delay it’s because we are getting a better building,” Jones said. “The trustees realized that the original plans that were drawn up were not satisfactory and voted for some design changes that would affect the usefulness of the complex.”

The present design incorporates a 5700 seat arena, 1400 of which will be fixed seating with chair backs. Among other facilities, the complex will include racquetball courts, a training and

Davidson welcomes new faculty
By AARON LEVINE

Karin English
One of the new faces on the Davidson faculty this year is Karin English. Presently a Ph.D. degree candidate in English, English is teaching English composition to freshmen at Davidson. English received her B.A. in English from Duke University in 1975, and her M.A. in comparative literature from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1982. Realizing that what she liked most was American literature and not the more international discipline of comparative literature, she switched back into English for her Ph.D.

After she earned her M.A., but before she enrolled for her Ph.D., English took a few years off. First, she worked one year with the National Research Council advising the government in matters pertaining to the social sciences, especially psychology, and then she worked from 1983 to 1985 at UNC-Charlotte with a lectureship. Dr. English is the wife of professor John Engel of the English department. Between time spent with her child, on her academic work — she is taking her oral examination for the Ph.D. in the fall — and her teaching here at Davidson, professor English has little time for outside hobbies. Even so, she does have time for her interests in 19th-century American literature, the relationship between film and literature as narrative, and writing short stories.

J. Norris Frederick
Another new member of the faculty, but certainly not a stranger to the campus, is J. Norris Frederick, originally from Charlotte, North Carolina. Presently dividing his time between the University of North Carolina at Charlotte and Davidson, Dr. Frederick teaches “problems of philosophy” and “social philosophy” here on campus. At UNC-Charlotte he teaches a course in critical thinking and once taught a course called “metaphor and reality.”

By LISA LENARD
On July 1, Bob Gardner assumed the duties of Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid at Davidson College. Gardner replaces James Hendrix Jr. who resigned last year for personal reasons.

The selection of a new Dean of Admissions to replace Hendrix was not a simple process. According to Associate Dean of Admissions Gardner Roller Ligo, President John W. Kuykendall placed high expectations and values upon the position of Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. Kuykendall named the Vice-President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty, Robert C. Williams, to chair a search committee. The extensive search included placing ads in the Chronicle of Higher Education and contacting people in other colleges and universities for recommendations. When it came down to making a decision, only two applicants were interviewed. Of these two, Gardner emerged as the choice of the committee.

Gardner comes to Davidson after spending twenty years at Cornell University, where he received both his master’s degree and Ph.D. in history. He resigned from his position there as Senior Associate Director of Marketing and Research because he felt a need for change and a desire to work at a small liberal arts college.

Described by Ligo as “creative and energetic,” Dean Gardner has already developed a strong sense of what life at Davidson College is all about. Gardner has begun to make an impact on the admissions process at Davidson. He plans to make changes to reflect to the general public the “high quality” of education and life present at Davidson College. These changes are necessary, Gardner feels, if Davidson is to strengthen its claim as a “nationally recognized” school. Gardner feels that people at Davidson “believe that [Davidson College] is really good, but some people think that it is so good thatFrederick earned his B.A. in philosophy at Davidson in 1970, and his M.A. and Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Georgia in 1972 and 1977 respectively. In addition to teaching, he is the director of the North Carolina chapter of the nuclear disarmament group SANE; and was at the Geneva summit between Reagan and Gorbachev in November of 1985. Dr. Frederick is a family man whose interests include tennis, jogging, and reading history. He is interested in the application of philosophical principles to everyday events, and also in the internal philosophy of language. His work with SANE has allowed him to express these interests. He will be here for two terms, teaching one course in the winter. He considers the Davidson student body to be interested and well-motivated.

We don’t need, or maybe we don’t want, other people to know about it. It needs to be decided which is more important, national recognition or keeping Davidson a “secret.” Gardner emphasizes the importance of the composition of the student body in relation to the quality of Davidson’s reputation. The number of minority students, males, females, alumni children, students of varying financial backgrounds, athletes and students with other talents needed to make up a “mix” of students cannot be left up to chance, he says. According to Gardner, the mix now present at Davidson, such as the 60:40 male:female ratio, was not originally a policy, but through the years has become such. In order for the “mix” to reflect what the people of Davidson College want, Gardner doesn’t want to make all the decisions but would rather have the input of those who make up the community of Davidson College — trustees, faculty, and students. “It’s necessary for us to put some thought and expression into what we want here,” says Gardner.

Gardner also noted that in order to improve some areas of the college, it might become necessary to sacrifice others. For instance, the higher tuition enables more financial aid to be available to those students who would otherwise be unable to attend Davidson. The college guarantees 100 percent of financial aid to be granted, primarily in the form of work-study, in order to keep graduates out of debt. Gardner also has made changes in the application for admission to Davidson College. The changes are designed to reflect the personal touch he wishes the admissions process to convey. From the time a prospective student receives his or her first letter from Davidson, all communications with the college will be personally addressed to him and will include the name of an admissions officer who will serve as the “tie” between the prospective student’s home and the admissions office. In addition, Gardner has removed the line for the applicant’s social security number from the top of the application. He wants applicants to know that at Davidson College students are names and faces, not numbers.

Gardner has already begun reading applications for the class of '92, and is “off to a good start.” He personally reads every application, as do — at the bare minimum — a member of the faculty and another member of the admissions staff. Although the admissions process for each class begins in the Spring and lasts until the following June, Gardner manages to find time for many interests outside of his office. He has, at one time or another, designed and built his own house, raised exotic pheasants, and raised sheep. (His interest in animals goes back to a childhood spent at the San Diego Zoo.) He also enjoys fishing, jogging, and “going to the beach to curl [his] toes in the sand.”

Jones thinks that the new facilities will be a great place for the student body to congregate. “The sports complex is not just an improvement for Davidson’s intercollegiate athletic program,” Jones said. “All the students at Davidson will be able to take advantage of the facilities, and intramural events will definitely benefit from the changes.” With $11.2 million raised to date through donations from individuals, corporations, and foundations, Davidson is now awaiting bids on construction of the Baker Sports Complex. Out of the money raised so far, the majority comes from individual donors and totals about $7 million. The remaining $4 million is almost equally divided between donations by corporations and foundations. The timetable for completion covers an estimated two years. Official ground-breaking ceremonies are scheduled for Homecoming, October 10, 1987. The student body is welcome to attend.

LONDON INTERNSHIPS
- Engineering
- Art/Architecture
- Business/Economics
- Human/Health Services
- Journalism/Communications
- Performing Arts
- Politics

All programmes include: 16 semester hour credits, 10-week internship, apartment, British faculty. Offered fall, spring, and summer semesters.

BOSTON UNIVERSITY
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
ZIP

Return To: London Internships, 143 Bay State Rd., Boston, MA 02215
(617) 359-9888

REPRESENTATIVE ON CAMPUS
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 4:15 p.m.
Chambers 206

Bob Gardner appointed new Dean of Admissions