Wednesday, April 15, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Baseball makes winning a habit
By MATT NEWSOM

The Wildcat baseball team completed a successful Southern Conference road trip last weekend by traveling to Charleston and beating The
Citadel two out of three games. Last weekend’s performance puts the Wildcats comfortably in second place in the Southern Division
of the Southern Conference with a conference record of 7-5.

Bill Masse took the Bulldog pitcher deep on Davidson’s very first at-bat of game one. Masse’s solo shot gave Davidson
a lead which they never surrendered en route to a 5-1 victory. Senior Steve Condon gave up only two hits
and recorded his seventh victory and fourth complete game of the year. The top of Davidson’s batting order: Masse, Alan
Lewis, Dave Turgeon, and Brian Moure, produced all but one of Davidson’s eight hits. Mark Thompson provided the other one,
a two-run single in the fourth inning, which proved to be the game winner.

Davidson lost a heart-breaker in game two of last Saturday’s doubleheader. Once again Masse started the scoring parade for Davidson
by clubbing his second homer of the day, a three-run blast in the third inning. Davidson scored two more runs
in the inning as Moure and Dan Simonds hit back-to-back dingers. The Wildcats got three more runs in the fourth
inning. Lewis got two RBIs on a double to left-center field and then scored on Turgeon’s RBI single. Davidson added
one more run in the fifth and sixth innings. However, The Citadel, pumped up by the hometown crowd and possibly
some hometown calls, came from behind to win in the bottom of the seventh inning. Greg Wilcox and Turgeon combined
on the pitching effort for Davidson.

Coach Greer experimented with a new line-up by moving Masse to left field, Brian Moure to right field, and Rob
Zimmerman into the designated hitter slot. Zimmerman responded with two hits and two runs scored. The Cats pounded out eleven
hits in the losing effort.

The series finale saw junior pitcher Dave Fitzgerald get back on the winning track as he scattered nine hits and
yielded only one run as Davidson won 8-1. Senior Steve Condon (above), Cats in celebration (adjacent), and Dave Turgeon congratulated
by Coach Greer. The Cats started things off with a bang as Turgeon hit a three-run homer in the first
inning. Masse and Lewis later added solo home runs to ensure the victory. Davidson had ten hits with Masse, Turgeon,
Dave DePaul, and Peter Hughes all getting two apiece.

On Thursday, the Cats soundly defeated the Winthrop College Eagles. Bill Waitsman picked up the win, as four Davidson batters
helped his cause with home runs. Bill Masse, Dave Turgeon, Mark Thompson, and Dave DePaul all “went yard” for the
Cats, with Thompson circling the bases twice.

Davidson then entered a crucial three-game weekend set with the Furman Paladins. In game one, as has become habit, Steve
Condon gained a substantial victory. The Cats provided Condon with 13 runs, which were more than enough to offset Furman’s
3 runs. For the Cats, Masse continued his hitting tirade with a home run and also scored 2 runs. Turgeon
had 2 singles, a triple, and a home run, driving in 4 runs.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

In 4 runs, Dan Simonds also contributed, ripping a home run and collecting 3 RBIs. In game 2, the Cats
struggled to a 9-7 win. Dave Turgeon picked up the win in relief. Alan Lewis had 2 singles, a double,
and 2 RBIs. Simonds had a single, a double, and scored 2 runs. Dave dePaul had a single and a
homer for the Cats. In the series finale on Sunday, the Cats downed the Paladins 12-8 to run their record
to 21-8 overall, 9-5 in the Southern Conference. Bill Waitsman garnered the win in relief of Dave Fitzgerald. Masse singled
twice and tripled for the Cats, Simonds singled twice and doubled, and DePaul doubled twice and homered.

For the Record Book: Condon has not lost a regular conference game in over two years. Masse, Turgeon, and Lewis
are all within reach of Masse’s season record for home runs. The trio are each one homer short of the
record of eleven which Masse hit last year. The team’s record stands at 18-8. With sixteen regular season games left
and the Southern Conference Tournament yet to be played, the season record of 24 wins could fall to the 1987
edition of Coach Greer’s team. Bill Masse is leading the Conference in batting average, hitting .424.

Sports Shorts
By Whit Wilks

Hussey To Remain At Davidson. On Saturday it was announced that head basketball coach Bobby Hussey removed himself from the
list of candidates for the head position at the University of Toledo. In announcing his decision, Hussey noted that he
is very comfortable with his present situation at Davidson, and that he felt an obligation to the returning players.

Men’s Tennis. Coach Frank’s team has enjoyed both highs and lows during the past week and a half. Last week
was the season’s most disappointing, as the Cats lost two Southern Conference road matches. First, the team surrendered a 5-4
decision to The Citadel in what Coach Frank described as “Our toughest loss of the season.” The following day, the
team played perennial power UTC and was vanquished by a deceiving score of 8-1, as many of the losses were
of the three-set variety. The Cats rebounded over the weekend as they defeated VMI, Western Carolina, and host ETSU by
a combined score of 26-1 in Johnson City, Tenn. The roller coaster ride concluded yesterday as the Cats fell to
rival Furman in the last home match of the season.

Wildcat Athlete Of The Week. This week’s Athlete of the Week is junior Bill Masse. In a three-game set with
The Citadel, the right-fielder had three home runs and five RBIs as the Cats took two of three from the
Bulldogs. Against Winthrop, Masse added another home run in an 11-3 drubbing of the Eagles. Finally, in a three-game set
over the weekend against Furman, he had another home run and five more hits as the Cats swept. After getting
the home run in the first game, he had hit a home run in seven straight games — which is
believed to be a college record. Congratulations Bill on a truly remarkable performance and good luck for continued success.

Home of the DAVIDSON WILDCATS

Robert Nesbit,
