Women’s tennis excels in season, P. 8

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXVII, Number 2
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Monday, March 30, 1987

New Baker gym ready for construction
By JOHN BAKROW

At its March meeting, the Davidson Board of Trustees announced the receipt of a 3.5 million dollar pledge from John
D. Baker Jr. ’25 and his brother Thompson S. Baker ’26 for the construction of a new sports facility. The
new building will be named in honor of the Bakers.

According to Dean Jones, Assistant Director of Development, the announcement of the donation culminated several months of work between college
officials and the donors. “These things don’t happen overnight. It requires a lot of hard work on the part of
many people to bring about a gift of this size.”

The Baker gift raises to 10 million dollars the amount made in pledges toward construction of the planned 14 million
dollar complex. An additional 3 million dollars will be needed to endow the maintenance of the building. Construction of the
new building will probably begin in the summer of 1987 and should be completed by late fall of 1988.

Designed by Little and Associates of Charlotte, the proposed 135,000 square foot structure would be the biggest construction project ever
undertaken by the college. (Currently, E.H. Little Library with approximately 100,000 sq. ft. is the largest building on campus). In
addition to the construction of the sports complex, new practice fields, parking areas, and possibly a new entrance to the
college campus off Concord Rd. will be built. Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze noted that the “new facility will
move us into a very favorable position with other schools that have the same goals and aspirations that we do.”

Meetze said that the “facility is planned for students.” In addition to the already completed Knobloch Tennis Center, the Baker
Sports Complex will include 7 racquetball courts, 1 squash court, a natatorium with an 8-lane pool and diving facilities, a
6,000-seat basketball arena, an indoor track, and a new weight room, as well as locker rooms, offices, and training rooms.
Glass panels will allow spectators to view activities in all areas of the complex from the student entrance.

By JIM DILLON

Junior Conrad Doenges was elected as the student government association’s (SGA’s) next president, and sophomore Lee Nagendran was voted its
vice president in elections held earlier this week. Doenges, who defeated junior Jay Hurt and sophomore Charles Bratton in the
election, says it is his main goal to expand the role of the SGA from its current role primarily consisting
of student services to a wider scope of activities.

“When you talk about goals, first you have to look at the structure of the SGA. It’s really service-oriented in
that first of all we produce services for students such as phonathon, SGA weekend, the career symposium, and the rides
board. We need to continue that role, but we shouldn’t be exclusively a ‘service organization,’” Doenges said.

Nagendran, who defeated sophomores David Petranick and Reese Boyd to win the vice president’s position, says her main goal is
to expand the role committees play in the workings of the SGA. She said the main duty of the vice
president is to work with committees. “I think most of the committees are centered around a certain event. The committees
did a wonderful job in capitalizing on the big events, but after that the scope shrinks down. I hope we
can keep that momentum going.”Scope open all year long. There’s a lot of work beforehand, but I’d like to see
the scope broadened so that committees aren’t limited to a single event. It should be a year-long commitment that makes
people feel more involved. That’s what’s most important about being on a committee, and that’s an important part of the
SGA,” Nagendran said.

Both Doenges and Nagendran agree that the SGA could expand on its ability to communicate with students in general. Doenges
said communication with the student body could work to prevent student apathy. “The SGA should represent the students’ views. In
that area, I think Mark Sandy (last SGA president) has made great progress. He changed representation from dorm senators to
Patterson Court representatives. Through this link, communication between the student body and the SGA needs to be strengthened. In a
major effort, this could work to get rid of student apathy. I was disgusted to see only 85 seniors show
up for the Sesquicentennial Convocation. I think student involvement is at a serious low, and I think with communication we
can help solve the problem,” Doenges said.

Nagendran said the SGA is open to ideas from the student body and looks to the student body for resources
with which to work. She agreed with Doenges that student apathy is a serious problem. “A lot of students are
not, or think that they can’t get, involved or that there’s not much they can do. SGA can change that.
Being on a committee is great for that,” Nagendran said.

Doenges and Nagendran both mentioned the possibility of Davidson’s switching from its current trimester system to a semester system as
a major issue facing the SGA. Doenges sees the role of the SGA in the semester debate as an informative
one. “The chief role of the SGA would be to inform the student body of the advantages and disadvantages of
semesters and trimesters. I think most students base their decisions on an impulsive response, but if you find out why
they would be making changes, then the student body could make a decision, but only when they are informed should
the SGA have a referendum to hand to the trustees and administration,” Doenges said.

Nagendran says she supports the idea of a 4-1-4 system in which the calendar would include two semesters and an
independent month-long term in January. That system, she said, would provide for greater flexibility. “Our terms just don’t ‘jive’ with
anyone else’s. The one month in January would give people a lot of flexibility to go abroad, and people could
get internships in Charlotte. The four-month-long semesters would give flexibility to go with other schools’ programs, but I don’t think
it will happen before 1990,” Nagendran said.

Several thousand of the seats in the basketball arena will retract to reveal another hardwood basketball court and a volleyball
court to be used for intramurals. Besides providing better facilities for student use, Director of Athletics Kit Morris sees the
new building as a means of broadening Davidson’s varsity athletics program. “The new facility will eliminate the floor conflict question,
giving us the potential to reconsider women’s basketball. We will also be able to consider a men’s and women’s swimming
and diving team.” Additionally, the athletic department staff might be enlarged to include a strength coach, aquatics director, and lifeguards.

Continued to page 3

New SGA officers discuss their plans for the future.
