Radio is Big Business
Kevin Dunn

Last Thursday, John Griffith decided that it would be in the best interest of WDAV to end the FLIPSIDES radio show. After discussing the issue with the station’s professional staff, Griffith felt that WDAV was losing a significant portion of its listening audience during the 11:00 p.m. to 1 a.m. shift that was FLIPSIDES. The solution he decided upon was to cancel FLIPSIDES. A sound and just decision? Right. Wrong.

In order for the issue to be understood, it needs to be put in the proper perspective. Let us begin by examining what WDAV was and what happened to it. The station was born in 1969, when a group of students began broadcasting on a carrier-current system from the basement of the Union. (“Carrier-current” meaning that it could only be received on radios that were plugged into the college’s electrical system.) The group was given the status of a student organization and was run entirely by students. In September 1973, as a result of the students’ work, they were able to begin broadcasting with a 10-watt transmitter on the frequency of 89.9 FM and with the call letters WDAV.

Until 1977, the radio station was completely run by students who played a variety of programs ranging from classical and jazz music to alternative rock, thereby sufficiently catering to the majority of listeners’ tastes. However, from 1977 through 1978, the administration of President Samuel Spencer began forcing the students to comply with college intervention. The administration demanded that the format be changed so that 50 percent of all air-time be devoted solely to classical music, despite the fact that classical music was already taking up the largest section of air-time. College intervention went so far as to include what can only be called a hijacking of WDAV’s post office box. Finally, in October 1978, the Board of Trustees gave control of the station to President Spencer and his administration, and the entire student staff was replaced by hired professionals.

It is interesting to note that, at the same time, the Trustees gave Spencer the authority to set up a radio station to be run solely by students. But that is exactly what WDAV was. What the trustees basically did was to take away the students’ station and tell them that if they wanted to build another one they could go right ahead. Why would the Trustees do that? Because they realized that a radio station could be profitable for public relations and it would be easiest to simply take control of one that was already in existence, i.e. WDAV. As the recently appointed (at that time) director Don Lovell stated, “It has always been the College’s station...the thing I think that all [of the actions by the college] implies is that I think we are just beginning to realize that this is big business.” To put it in overtly blunt language, what was said to the students about their radio station was, “to hell with the students, money is involved.”

Fortunately, the students did not take it lying down. Unfortunately, there wasn’t much they could do. The college devised an agreement, which was basically a forced compromise, that allowed the students to control the now defunct FLIPSIDES show Monday through Friday. The whole episode ten years ago reminds me of the plight of the American Indians. The white man came and stole their land and kindly gave them a reservation for their trouble. They came in and stole our station and kindly gave us a late-night show for our trouble. Well Tonto, now they want that too. When the white man realized he could make a profit from the land he gave the Indians, he took it right back. John Griffith says that WDAV can increase its revenue by playing classical music until 1 a.m. We all know the rest of the story.

Now let us examine the reasons John Griffith gave for a professional station meant accepting responsibilities and commitments that were beyond the capacities of the students. So that held the libraries and studio of WDAV. The idea of students like my sister being able to play whatever jazz, rock, or classical music they wanted to intrigued me. My sister told me that it was not easy to obtain a position and that WDAV was the only organization that had students on a waiting list. What really excited the students, she told me, was what they had been pushing for for many years; a signal boost to reach Charlotte that would be implemented later that year. I had no further contact with the station until seven and a half years later when I enrolled.

I’m not going to go into the history of the station. If it interests you there is a fine summary to be found elsewhere in this paper. However, I eventually became a part of what remained of student programming at DAV. I was to be the director of “Flipsides” this year. I spent all of the summer working in Charlotte and living in Davidson so I could work with “Flipsides.” I helped organize efforts to write letters and sign petitions to save the program. But I am neither shocked nor embittered by the final decision to cancel “Flipsides.” I had the whole summer to deal with the death of the show. It is clear that “Flipsides” had no place in WDAV’s future. All of us who worked on the show always felt an uneasy relationship with the professional staff. I searched for a reason that the show had failed, for I knew that for something as vital...As student radio began to die at Davidson, there had to be a better explanation than a format change at WDAV. The administration seems to be the most guilty. Well, the administration, the Trustees, all of the distant, faceless folk who wield the levers of power are easy targets for our scorn. After all, we don’t know them and they don’t seem to react to the blame we lay at their feet. They must be guilty. I will concede that the administration—the students got the upgrade and lost the station because of their thoughtless desire for signal power. If the students could have been happy with a ten-watt station, WDAV might still be in the Union basement today. My point is that the single most powerful force at Davidson is the will of the student body. No other element within the college carries so much unchecked power. Yet, no other element is as neglectful of its power. Students made WDAV into a Frankenstein. We can blame no one else for what happened. Something is rotten in Davidson—students.

“Davidson used to be such an exciting place,” an administration official told me, “so many organizations and activities doing good work. They made a lot more trouble then but I didn’t mind that. Now they just want to do their work and party. They don’t seem to dispute what the administration tells them. They're only involved in themselves.” To me, “Flipsides” and most other student organizations have been dead a long time. Today they merely exist. There is no life in them. We get mad about “Flipsides” only because the administration made its death official. Student organizations are at a low. Last year, almost all of the positions at the College Union ran unopposed. The coveted positions as editors of student publications are filled by recruitment. The SGA is seen as something to put on one’s resume. (Can you name your class president and all your class senators?) What happened to those thrilling days of yesteryear? Excuses abound. Most are like this, “Students then just had more time. The workload now is much more.” Ask any student of the period or tenured professor. They will tell you that the workload is no different. Where do students spend their time? The best way to find the life of the campus is to find new organizations, growth, and waiting lists. Once that was the Union, now it's Patterson Court’s.

The Davidsonian's “Opinions” section is the only forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent issues. The editors will try to print all opinions dealing with subjects of general interest to the campus community, but they must adhere to the following guidelines:
- The opinions must be neatly typed. The editors will also accept articles submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SST WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS text file format.
- Opinions must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Monday before the expected publication date, except for opinions submitted on diskettes, which are due at 5 p.m. on Tuesday.
- All opinions should be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names to be printed with their articles.
- The staff will not edit opinions for content or style, but for common English usage only. The editors will inform the authors of any substantial changes.
- Because of limited space, it is sometimes impossible to print all opinions submitted. The editors reserve the right to select articles for publication from among those received.
- Writers should include information about their home city and state, their graduating class, or their profession (where applicable).

The Davidsonian
Monday, September 21, 1987

The professional staff that runs WDAV is not trained to supervise an alternative rock format. True, they are classical-oriented, but FLIPSIDES has had student supervisors from the beginning. That was part of the forced compromise. WDAV was losing a significant portion of its audience during that time frame. This ignores the more than 1,500 signatures by Charlotte listeners on the petition that was circulated over the summer supporting FLIPSIDES. The fact that over 1,500 listeners tune into an 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. show is astounding when you consider its unusual format. It should also be remembered that the following for FLIPSIDES is quite important since it is the only alternative music show in the broadcasting area. For that reason alone, it makes good P.R. sense to continue FLIPSIDES.

FLIPSIDES is inconsistent with the Trustees’ programming mission, which is to make the station the best classical station in the area. That mission is the one that the Trustees created after the station was taken from the students and, for that reason, is not even worthy of argument. The decision to cancel FLIPSIDES was one motivated primarily by monetary interest. In that regard, the decision could be profitable for the station. But let us not lose our perspective and get caught in an illusionary mind-frame. WDAV is a student-created station. Created, built, and run solely by students. If I may be blunt again, the station was stolen from them in order to save the college the trouble of creating its own. A compromise was rammed down the students’ throats in order to pacify them somewhat. This compromise was FLIPSIDES. Now the college has decided to renege on that promise and to take it away from us completely. As four-year residents at this 150-year-old institute, students are powerless against the forces that be. Once again the attitude is “to hell with the students” and with any promises that were made, and once again, they will get away with it. Something is rotten here at Davidson. The administration was to blame regarding the WDAV takeover in 1978, but the decision to cancel “Flipsides” was a minor action and the parties involved may have the same titles, but they are not the same people. The administration merely cut away the withered remains of what had once been a healthy appendage. WDAV became a professional station because what the students wanted was a signal boost upgrade. I don’t think that any of the students realized just how much baggage that upgrade would bring with it. Essentially it meant becoming a professional station and becoming a professional.