Friday, October 2, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

~~

Schroeder declines Presidential run; mudslide kills 200

By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining events September 25-October 1:

Across the nation — on Tuesday, the Senate unanimously voted, 98-0, to ban imports from Iran. The U.S. is also seeking sanctions against Iran through the United Nations, because of Iran’s rejection of a cease-fire in its 7-year war with Iraq. The U.S. ban would affect mostly oil imports. The ban, attached to a $303 billion defense budget bill, may be subject to a Presidential veto by Reagan. President Reagan has objected to the defense budget bill because of the limits it sets on the strategic defense initiative.

President Reagan reports to Congress this week on the failure of U.S. economic sanctions against South Africa. Reagan’s report will not recommend further sanctions.

The Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget balancing law has been revived. President Reagan reluctantly signed legislation for the law on Tuesday because the bill allowed an increase in the national debt limit. Reagan stated, however, that he would fight hard against any tax increases or defense budget decreases proposed to meet the budget targets.

Journalist Bob Woodward of the Washington Post released a book this week that detailed the actions of William Casey and the Central Intelligence Agency. Casey, the CIA director during the arms-for-hostages affair with Iran, died before he could testify before congressional investigative committees. Woodward, who had enjoyed an unusual amount of personal access to Casey, is being criticized for exposing CIA spying techniques and for publishing false information in his book VEIL: The Secret Wars of the CIA. Woodward claims that on his deathbed Casey nodded affirmation of his knowledge of the diversion of funds to the Contras.

Democratic Colorado Rep. Patricia Schroeder disappointed democratic hopefuls and feminists this week as she announced, amid tears, that she “could not figure out how to run” for the Presidency of the U.S.

Democratic Presidential candidate Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachusetts accepted the resignation of his campaign manager and other top staff members after learning that they were responsible for leaking to news sources the videotape that ended Joseph Biden’s campaign hopes. John Sasso, campaign manager for Dukakis, gave news sources videotapes which documented false claims by Biden about his academic record.

California became the first state to allow AIDS-drug testing which bypasses regulations set by the Federal Drug Administration when Gov. Deukmejian signed a bill this week. Supporters of the bill hope that it will speed help to AIDS victims.

Around the world — in Medellin, Colombia, a large mudslide accounted for the death of 200 people on Sunday. The mudslide occurred on Sugarloaf Mountain, destroying a slum village.

Soviet leader Gorbachev ended speculation this week that he was ill when he appeared at a Kremlin meeting with French delegates. Gorbachev had not been seen in public since early August. He said that he had been vacationing and working on a book.

In South Korea, opposition leaders are divided as both Kim Young Sam and Kim Dae Jung claim to be presidential candidates. South Korean President Chun Doo Hwan’s term ends in February, and elections are scheduled for December.

Can We Help?

- Study skills
- Time management
- Stress management
- Sexuality
- Family issues
- Relationships
- Cross-cultural counseling
- Weight control
- Career counseling
- Alcohol & drug abuse

STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER
08 Union Basement Ext. 451

Amelia Dockery, Ph.D.
Tom Pitt, Ph.D.
Virginia Sykes, M.H.L.D.L.
Campbell Peery, M.A.
Henry Young, Ph.D.

Quality and Fashion-Apparel for Men and Women

John Mack & Son

Come See Our Exciting Campus Wear... Casual or Dressy

128 North Main St. Phone: 664-4711
Downtown Mooresville
Our 75th Year
Only 6 Miles North

BEAT THE WINTER BLUES

Sign up for a special P.E. class in health and wellness
Topics to be covered include:

- Stress
- Physical Fitness
- Nutrition
- Sexuality
- Alcohol and Drug Use

PED 056 “Issues in Personal Health” taught by Georgia Ringle, M.P.H.

Sign up soon!