Sports ~ Cats’ baseball continues winning ways

By MATT NEWSOM

The Wildcat baseball team continued to make progress towards a very successful season as they picked up victories against tough non-conference foes Wake Forest and UNCC last week, surrounding a three-game series at conference opponent Western Carolina.

Last Thursday’s game against Wake Forest was moved from Davidson to Winston-Salem due to the poor field conditions at Davidson. However, the Demon Deacons couldn't turn their homefield advantage into a victory as the Wildcats prevailed in the slugfest 11-10. Senior first baseman Mark Thompson went four for four and homered, while Alan Lewis hit his seventh round-tripper of the year. But the big blow came in the bottom of the eighth inning as Bill Masse put the Wildcats on top to stay with a two-run double. Greg Wilcox pitched 7 1/3 innings to get the win in relief of Jeff Loser.

On Saturday the Cats traveled to Cullowhee to play the defending Southern Conference Champions, Western Carolina. As has become customary during the past two years, Steve Condon opened up the weekend series with a victory. The Cats’ bats were alive and kicking as Davidson scored fourteen runs during the seven-inning contest. Thompson homered once again, and Dan Simonds pounded out three hits. Freshman Steve Livesy had a bases-loaded double to blow the game wide open. Condon gave up only one run on six hits while raising his record to 5-1 on the year.

Unfortunately, Davidson's bats were silenced in game two of the doubleheader. After Western Carolina jumped out to a 1-0 lead, Dave DePaul hit a solo homer in the fourth inning to tie the game. Then in the fifth inning, Ron Krnacik pinch ran for Mark Thompson, who had walked to lead off the inning. While Livesy attempted to sacrifice bunt, an overthrow permitted Krnacik to go to third base. Pinch hitter Rob Zimmerman then hit a sacrifice fly for Davidson’s only other score of the game. The Catamount pitching was not kind to Wildcat hitting on Sunday either. Davidson drew first blood in the top of the first when Brian Moure doubled home Lewis and Dave Turgeon. However, Billy Waitsman, who had been ill throughout the weekend, surrendered seven runs in 2 1/3 innings. Wilcox relieved Waitsman in the third and shut down Western Carolina. But the damage had been done, and Davidson could only muster a Mark Thompson home run en route to a 10-4 defeat.

The Wildcats were to have played Lenoir-Rhyne on Tuesday, but Mother Nature recorded her eighth victory of the season by raining out the regional affair. Davidson returned to action on Wednesday when they hosted crosstown rival UNCC in a home run derby. The 49ers hit three round trippers while the Wildcats connected on five of their own. Masse, Turgeon, and Moure all had one apiece, while Alan Lewis added a pair of blasts over the right field fence. Condon pitched the middle three innings and picked up his sixth victory of the season. Turgeon pitched the ninth inning and notched his second save on the year.

Davidson was to have played the Tar Heels of UNC yesterday before heading down to Charleston, SC to play The Citadel in a Southern Conference series this weekend. Next week the Wildcats play host to Winthrop on Thursday at 2 pm. Then the Paladins of Furman invade during Spring Frolics weekend for a doubleheader on Saturday at noon and a single game on Sunday at 1 pm. During the festivities, bring your date by the baseball field and catch the excitement of Wildcat baseball.

Assistant Coach Baker looks at Davidson basketball

By HAP BRYANT

Despite apparent recent upheaval in Davidson’s basketball program, assistant coach Jim Baker presented a picture of stability and optimism in an interview Tuesday. Questions have arisen following an article in The Charlotte Observer recently as to Coach Bobby Hussey’s career plans. Although declining to make a definite statement about Hussey’s plans, Baker said that the situation should stabilize within the next week to ten days. Coach Hussey’s name has arisen in connection with job openings at East Carolina, William and Mary, and Toledo. His popularity withOther schools do not surprise Baker, even though this is the first year Hussey has been actively courted by other schools. According to Baker, “What he’s (Hussey) been able to do here is highly respected by his peers” in the coaching profession. “Kids are graduating on time and are representing the school well.” In this day of scandal in the N.C.A.A., Baker said, high graduation rates and other ethical conduct are rare. Institutions will now examine even harder coaches like Hussey who have established positive, sanction-free programs. In addition, Hussey’s consecutive twenty-win seasons have raised his stock considerably.

According to Baker, “He’s (Hussey) still interested in Toledo.” However, nothing definite has been decided. “The job hasn’t been offered yet.” When asked whether or not Baker would accompany Hussey to Toledo if the job was in fact offered, he replied, “I don’t know.” He agreed that everything regarding the job there is hypothetical now, reiterating that the cloud should clear soon.

However, one member of the coaching staff will definitely not return next year. Assistant coach Sam Dixon, returning to his alma mater, will assume the head coaching job at Denison University in Ohio. Baker wished Dixon well in his endeavors, saying “He'll do a nice job. He’s highly respected in the Midwest. It’s a good opportunity for him.” When Dixon departs, Davidson will lose a key part of its staff.

Although Baker exuded a positive outlook, he expressed regret regarding Davidson’s imminent expulsion from the Southern Conference. He noted that scheduling, recruiting, and fan support would suffer most from an independent status. “Our scheduling would be awful. You’d have your Campbell Universities coming in here once a year. You’d play Holy Cross once a year.” According to Baker, an independent status would force Davidson to schedule DePaul, Notre Dame, Dayton, and the few other basketball independents, and we would have slim possibility of ever receiving an N.C.A.A. Tournament bid.

Secondly, Baker noted that recruiting would suffer as well. “Kids want to go, or have a chance to go, to the N.C.A.A.,” a prospect that independent status would dim. However, as yet, looming independence has not adversely affected recruiting, as one promising recruit, 6’9” Texan Thomas Hellen, has already signed.

Thirdly, Baker felt that the lack of a conference would hamper fan support, as Davidson could not establish any meaningful, heated rivalries as an independent. He noted that occasions like the Marshall game would be few and far between without a conference. However, although the conference situation for Davidson after next year is still in doubt, Baker does not expect independence to continue. “I think Kit (Morris) and Coach Hussey are committed to a conference.” He also said that Davidson is likely to remain in Division I, noting that the publicity for Division I teams is much greater than that for Division II.

When asked about Davidson’s possible competitiveness in the Colonial Athletic Association, which includes teams like Navy, Richmond, East Carolina, George Mason, James Madison, and UNC-Wilmington, Baker said, “I think we could do fine. If the conference decides to admit Davidson, we would enter a conference with a television package and modern gymnasium facilities.” However, Baker noted that a league championship, though attainable, would be hard-won. “The conference, from top to bottom, is a little better than the Southern Conference.”

In conclusion, Baker continued his optimism as he looked to next year’s team. “Next year’s team will be interesting. Magic (Gaines) and Alan (Hunter) will be ready to play. It depends on whether Maurice Gray will be able to step in and fill Ace’s shoes.” In addition to these developing freshmen, Baker expressed confidence that returning starters Jay Schmitt, Derek Rucker, and Jeff Himes will improve over the summer.

Coach Jim Baker, one of the men closest to Davidson basketball, anticipates continued success. Even though Hussey may leave, the situation looks promising for the future of Davidson basketball.