Sports

Davidson basketball learns the ropes

By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

As the old adage goes, “to be the best, you have to play the best,” and this past week the
Davidson basketball team learned that lesson the hard way. The week was full of promise and disappointment in a closer-than-it-appears
78-65 loss to Wake Forest away, a 76-70 win over Bowling Green, and a drubbing from Duke 105-71, the last
two games at the Charlotte Coliseum.

A steamy, smoky Winston-Salem Coliseum, packed with noisy fans, gave a small gym atmosphere and proved to be a tough
place for a visiting team. The Davidson team seemed unaffected by the hostile crowd in gaining over a 10-point lead
in the first half on the shoulders of Derek Rucker’s 21 points and Jeff Himes’ 12. However, by half the
lead was frittered to only a 4-point margin. The Wake Forest team came back in the second half with the
help of two freshmen, as Robert Siler had 16 points and Daric Keys contributed 10 points and 3 steals. Wake’s
offense was run efficiently by junior point guard Cal Boyd with 16 points and 7 assists. Sam Ivy cleaned the
glass and played good defense with 14 rebounds and 2 blocks, and Ralph Kitley was a defensive force with 3
blocks and 2 steals.

On the strength of a tough full-court press, led by Rucker’s 3 steals, Davidson narrowed the lead to 2 points
late in the game and still had a chance as the deficit was 5 points with 41 seconds on the
clock. However, the Davidson bench got a technical and the Deacons converted to seal the victory.

Back in the friendly confines of the Charlotte Coliseum, Davidson beat Bowling Green in a close game with the help
of Himes’ 23 points and Jay Schmitt’s 16. The Davidson team looked lethargic at times during the game, which can
be attributed to the sparse crowd of 1500 being unable to give emotional lifts to the team when they needed
it. Rucker had his customary great game defensively with 3 steals but had a shocking season-low 7 points. Scoring in
double digits for Bowling Green were Joe Gregory with 23 points, Anthony Richardson 14, Lamon Pippin 14, and Joe Moore
10. Gregory, a 5-10 junior point guard, was an exciting player to watch with his long-range missiles including 3 three-point
shots, and dishing out 5 assists. The highlight of the game was by Moore, a very athletic player, who had
a spectacular dunk in the second half.

See BASKETBALL, p. 10

Around the Southern Conference

By Larry Dagenhart, Jr.

The Southern Conference is a funny one. On the national level, it’s right there in the middle. SC teams are
often victims to national powers in early December games, but also get to rack up easy victories over colleges much
smaller than themselves. In the month of December alone, SC teams will square off against teams like Duke, Wake Forest,
North Carolina, and Kansas. So begins another conference season, which unfortunately will be Davidson’s last after 52 years of participation.
Once again, most basketball media publications have predicted Marshall to finish first, Tennessee-Chattanooga second, and Davidson third. Here’s a quick
rundown of how the Wildcats’ rivals have fared so far this season:

Marshall’s Thundering Herd opened its season last weekend by hosting the Marshall Memorial Invitational. Marshall came away champion with a
79-65 victory over Youngstown State and a 62-61 escape over Eastern Kentucky. Monday night, Marshall improved its record to 3-0
with a 91-77 win over Ohio University. Senior guard Skip Henderson pumped in 30 points for the Herd.

Tennessee-Chattanooga began its season with a trip to Hawaii and with two tournament championships. In the Hilo Invitational, the Moccasins
clinched first place by beating Southwest Missouri Baptist 95-90 and Hawaii 85-81. Back home in Chattanooga, the Mocs hosted their
own tournament and defeated Maryland-Baltimore County 78-67 and Tennessee State 72-55. Monday night the Mocs scored 20 points in the
last four minutes to beat Tennessee Tech 95-89. UTC is 5-0.

Appalachian State was a victim of one of those December practice games for the Duke Blue Devils on November 28,
as they were clobbered 110-74 in the season opener. ASU reversed the situation two days later by stomping little Methodist
College 108-85. ASU also suffered a heartbreaker last Saturday as UNC-Wilmington’s Rodney Peel knocked in a last-second three-pointer to sink
the Mountaineers 61-58.Most recently, ASU travelled to Lawrence to play the University of Kansas. Despite a 73-62 loss, the Mountaineers
had three men in double figures with Kemp Phillipps scoring 20 points. Overall, ASU is 2-3. The Citadel began its
season by travelling to Charlottesville, Va., for the Investor's Classic. Citadel lost its opener to the University of Rhode Island
113-85. However, the Bulldogs came back to beat Columbia 70-56 to finish third in the tournament.

Last Saturday, in a battle of cadets, The Citadel dropped its record to 1-3 after a 69-64 loss to Army.
The Southern Conference win of the week had to be Furman’s 80-68 win over Wake Forest. John Castille and Joey
Brooks combined for 40 points and 19 rebounds to lead the Paladins in the upset. Furman even led the Deacons
37-26 at the half. With a 59-44 win over Erskine and an 81-64 trouncing of Wofford, the Paladins are 3-0.
As of December 7, the Buccaneers of East Tennessee State are 1-2, with losses of 85-73 to Virginia Tech and
77-52 to UNC-Greensboro. Greg Dennis’ 30 points and Mister Jennings’ last-second layup were enough to sink Erskine 86-84.

The V.M.I. Keydets (1-2) opened their season with a 78-77 overtime win over Bridgewater College but were later trounced by
Radford College 88-68 and 81-45 by fourteenth-ranked Georgetown. The Hoyas led 41-17 at halftime and had four players in double
figures. Western Carolina got off to a shaky start last week by posting a 1-3 record. The Catamounts knocked off
Tusculum 99-72 in the season opener but proceeded to lose 68-63 to Kansas, 97-73 to North Carolina A & T,
and 76-71 to UNC-Asheville.

Davidson’s Dean Keener moves the ball against Wake Forest.

Wrestling Citadel, Gardner Webb, and Pembroke State University

By HOLME OLTROGGE

Last Saturday the Davidson wrestling team hosted Citadel, Gardner Webb, and Pembroke State University in an exciting quad meet. Overall
the team did exceptionally well, winning against Gardner Webb and losing to Citadel and Pembroke. The losses to the two
strong schools were predictable while the 37-9 win over Gardner Webb was somewhat unexpected. This opening meet should give Coach
Tom Oddo a good gauge of the strengths and weaknesses of this year’s squad. Although giving up 12 points in
team score due to forfeits at 118 and 126, the Cats did well in the classes in which they fielded
competitors. Starting off the match at 134, Joe Binns went 1-1-1. Like the others, he slowly gained confidence and wrestled
better with each match. Marc Wennberg (142) and Ara Ayer (150) were two wrestlers who surprised everyone by wrestling all
three matches each after only a week of preparation. Co-captain Sherb Sentell (167) wrestled with the intensity he had last
year, ending up 1-2. The only person who went undefeated this past weekend was co-captain Tim Heinze (177) with a
2-0-1 record. Again his dedication and his abilities revealed themselves through his performance. It should be noted that three weeks
ago (after exams) Heinze went to the Campbell tournament by himself and won his weight class. Finally, at 190 Matt
McConnell had a frustrating time as he competed with a hurt shoulder and came up short in three very close
matches.

The most surprising and exciting matches go to freshman heavyweight Aengus Channon. Wrestling in his first collegiate meet, Channon gained
respect from his teammates as well as his opponents. Against Pembroke, he recorded his first pin of his collegiate career
and continued the aggressive style in the final match against Gardner Webb. Winning 5-2 with about 30 seconds left in
the match, Channon found himself losing control. Instead of giving up a reversal for two points, he let the guy
go for one. Thinking he could take his opponent down again, he tied up but was taken down and the
score evened at 5. Time was running out as Channon made one last effort to escape, which he did just
as the buzzer rang, and he claimed the hard-fought and exciting 6-5 victory. Although the team started out sluggishly, it
eventually wrestled well against Pembroke and especially against Gardner Webb. Coach Oddo reiterates that injuries are seriously hurting the team,
but expects that by January the squad will come back with renewed strength. This weekend Davidson has a dual meet
at Wilkes Community College.
