10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor
Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Your paper

As winter mid-terms become the primary concern on campus, we are reminded that our term as editors of The Davidsonian draws quickly toward its conclusion. For The Davidsonian, priority one lies in preparing the paper for its next set of editors. During our term as editors, we have benefitted from the help of many people. All the writers, section editors, members of the layout staff, and typists involved in The Davidsonian this last year have made the infamous Thursday all-nighters a thing of the past.

When Mark Chen and Keith Finch take charge of the paper this spring, they will need a new set of writers and section editors. With so many seniors on this year’s staff, every part of the paper has openings that need to be filled. If you enjoy writing and understand the importance of meeting deadlines, positions of responsibility are ripe for the taking. This paper thrives or stalls based on the performance of section editors. Each section of The Davidsonian is an extension of its section editor or editors. For the paper to stay strong, talented and aggressive section editors will be needed, especially in the areas of business, advertising, and circulation, the paper’s best-paying jobs.

In terms of organization, The Davidsonian has improved drastically in the last year. However, The Davidsonian still has a way to go to become a great college newspaper. The writing and artistic talent needed to make this leap exists in the student body. The more students who get involved, the better the paper will become.

For those interested in either joining The Davidsonian or just finding out some more information, there will be a short meeting Wednesday, Jan. 21, at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Mark Chen will speak for a few minutes about his plans for the paper and members of the staff will be free to answer questions.

Davidson’s academic demands cause many students to forego participation in extracurricular activities such as The Davidsonian. If you have a tight schedule but want to participate, come to the meeting. The paper has a vast number of positions with varying degrees of commitment. Only an hour a week is needed to be part of The Davidsonian.

The Davidsonian is an informal paper meant to serve the students, faculty, and administration of the college and the surrounding community as a forum for expressing ideas and as a source of information concerning the college and community. Every student’s ideas and efforts are needed to fulfill this purpose.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longley, Ed Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jon Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank,Diana Miller. Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins. Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Yong Lee, Matt Yaun. Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Gates Grainger, Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough. Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall. Friday, January 16, THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s View

JOHN CLARK’S LATEST EDITION

THE DAVIDSONIAN Letters

Brannon

To the Editors:

I agree with Paula Brannon that a few Davidson students behaved inexcusably when they threw trash on the floor during the game against UNCC. However, her obvious hostility completely negates her argument. Calling Davidson students “rude pigs” and “spoiled, rich brats,” she reduces herself to the level of those whose angry outbursts she denounces. She accuses Davidson students of “childish and ignorant behavior.” However, her attitude is clearly childish, and her application of the words “spoiled, rich brats” to Davidson students, approximately sixty-five percent of whom receive financial aid, only proves her ignorance. While the behavior of a few Davidson students was undeniably rude, it does not represent the behavior of the Davidson student body as a whole. The chip on Miss Brannon’s shoulder invalidates any constructive criticism which might be in order.

Kimberly Powell

Cartoonist

To the Editors:

I have never written an editorial to or for The Davidsonian, but I have drawn some for three and a half years — my motto has been “The brush is mightier than the pen” (I do draw with a brush). Also, I have never received a written response to any of my cartoons and have thought that if I ever did, I still would not write because it is not the custom for cartoonists to respond in writing (or respond at all, for that matter). Nevertheless, I am writing — not to argue for my opinion but to extend my thanks to the opposition. Cartoonists think in ways and about things most people do not consider and one of my realizations has been that it is very hard to provoke a thoughtful argument with a cartoon. Oh, it would be easy enough to make someone angry by drawing something unjust, nasty, or just plain bad, but to make people think with a cartoon is a real challenge. It’s also my job; and if I have produced a cartoon that someone warrants threatening enough to need a refutation printed, I have indeed scored! I don’t know how much I influenced voters out there, but it is worth mentioning that my candidates won (they are not at all responsible for the cartoon). I receive comments regularly — half compliments, half questions and sometimes disapproval (I was even physically assaulted once by a feminist over a cartoon on her subject!) — but I have never received a letter. So, I would like to thank Brett and Craig for considering “Cloudt’s View” worth writing about. I would also invite the rest of you readers to be provoked! But be on your guard and best behavior. If I don’t have your face, I can find it; and as Doug Marlette of The Charlotte Observer has said, we “take no prisoners!” Finally, concerning my word choice, I apologize. It is very easy to make errors in language when you are thinking visually because you are less “writing words” than “drawing words.” In this case, if I remember, I was worried about spelling and missed meaning. We try our best to catch mistakes but sometimes they slip by anyway. This particular one got past me, my dictionary, and two editors! Thanks again for the letter. It’s been lonely for three and a half years.

Richard Cloudt