**Corrected OCR Text:**

ew 66 Basketball team rolls, p. 6

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXVI, Number 13
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Wednesday, January 28, 1987

DCPC in the midst of the residue of last week's snow

Careers Office hosts 42 recruiters
By JIM DILLON

“Placement season,” as they call it in the Careers Office, has begun, and director Ken Wood says he expects a
record number of companies to visit Davidson seeking employees. Currently, 42 companies are scheduled to send recruiters. Wood said he
expects that the final number before the end of the year will surpass 50.

“I expect we'll have more recruiters than we’ve ever had in the history of Davidson College,” Wood said. “That is
a result of us sending well over a hundred letters and dozens of phone calls inviting other companies to come
here and recruit. This has been rewarded with several new companies expressing interest in coming for the first time.”

Nine companies are slated to visit Davidson for the first time. They are RCA Benefits Division, Bowles, Hollowell and Conner
financial investment firm, Charter Data Systems, the City of Charlotte, First Home Federal Savings and Loan, Georgia State Merit System,
International Paper, PMA Insurance Companies, and Quaker Oats.

Wood said Davidson is limited in the types of companies that tend to recruit at Davidson. “There is an understandable
frustration on the part of students in terms of the kinds of companies we attract, which are mainly banks and
financial investment firms. The fact is that companies representing human services and human interest groups don't recruit at Davidson, but
nor do they recruit at any other schools.”

Wood said fewer students were present at the Careers Office’s placement orientation meeting than in past years. He attributes that
to an increase in the number of students going to graduate school. “I think there might be a trend back
to grad school,” Wood said. “At one time the kind of jobs available at the PhD level were tight, and
that whole thing is opening up again.”

Wood said Davidson is experiencing an increased interest in internships. He estimated that 35 students are currently working as part-time
interns in Charlotte, and approximately half are receiving academic credit for their work. Students interested in working as an intern
for the spring term in Charlotte or through either the Washington Center or the Philadelphia Center in those cities should
consult with Wood as soon as possible. Students interested in seeking externships should see Wood.

Continued on page 2

Leonard speaks on the slow Gorbachev revolution
By TOM MOORE

Former U.S. arms negotiator James F. Leonard addressed a question currently being considered by top government officials around the world:
his lecture, “Can Gorbachev Be Taken Seriously?” attracted a post-snowstorm crowd of about 40 Thursday night in the Morrison Room
of the Union.

The answer, according to Leonard, seems to be a qualified “yes.” He cited the encouraging, but uneven, recent progress of
the Soviet Union in areas such as its foreign policy and domestic problems such as alcoholism.

The alcohol situation in the U.S.S.R. is “appalling,” said Leonard. “Middle-aged males have fallen into the habit of consuming great
quantities of alcohol,” even on the way to work in the morning. “Alcohol now has the function of religion in
the West,” which according to Karl Marx was the “opiate of the people,” Leonard said. “The average lifespan of males
was decreasing.”

The Gorbachev Administration responded by...making changes in the role of the party in citizens’ daily lives. Not major changes, Leonard
said, but ones designed to make it seem as though the party was “no longer controlling, but there to serve
as a model... they’re now preaching.” Another subtle change in the attitude of the Gorbachev Administration is “the abandonment of
the pretense that all was perfect” in the U.S.S.R. The government is now exhibiting “the quality of being accessible to
public debate,” he said. Leonard noted the public chastisement of a KGB official as a sign of the government’s opening
up. “There had never been a case in which the KGB was criticized in public,” he said. The official was
disciplined for abuse of power. “Up until now, the KGB was the abuse of power.” Not only was the action
against the official surprising, but also the source: the head of the KGB himself. This is a significant departure from
past policy, said Leonard.

Also, Gorbachev has been giving strong speeches which are then censored by Pravda and broadcast reports the next day. This
is in contrast to other Soviet leaders who kept even the uncut version of their speeches bland and tidy, said
Leonard. “He is trying to get the Soviet intelligentsia on his side... they have been dissatisfied but are still patriotic.”
The recent release of Soviet dissident Sakharov was another attempt to appeal to the educated classes of the U.S.S.R., Leonard
said. Currently, “the technocracy is enamored of him.”

A less successful front of the Gorbachev Administration’s efforts to “be taken seriously” worldwide is its foreign policy situation. Leonard
divided the U.S.S.R.’s foreign policy concentrations into three concentric circles: the U.S., Third World nations, and its immediate neighbors. “The
Soviets have begun to address Afghanistan,” Leonard said. “They have begun to acknowledge that they have serious problems there.” Leonard
said that the Soviet Union faces the same situation in many ways that the United States did in Vietnam. They
are facing the same quagmire situation and probably want to get out very badly, but are finding it difficult to
do so without losing face. Despite their problems, “they show no signs of making radical change.”

The Soviets have been more successful in dealing with their immediate neighbors, said Leonard, but “their most noteworthy moves” are
in their bilateral relations with the United States, significant enough “to justify the word ‘Revolution.’” These moves include offers of
on-site inspections of Soviet military installations on Soviet territory, which the Soviet government worked out with an American nongovernmental agency.
In a conference in Budapest, they talked of each side pulling out 50,000 men on the West German border within
two years, according to Leonard.

When the United States several years ago proposed a “zero-situation,” which involves getting rid of all the missiles on both
sides, it was attacked by observers in the West who said the U.S.S.R. would never accept the terms. Now, the
U.S.S.R. has accepted the terms, “but now we’re having problems with it!” Leonard exclaimed. “Obviously,” he said, the arms control
climate is such that “a deal can be made if we want it.”

Summing up, Leonard said, “The ‘Gorbachev Revolution’ is uneven, but it is clearly a beginning.” For the moment, though, the
U.S.S.R. “will remain a problem country.” Leonard, a former arms control negotiator, serves as Scoville Visiting Lecturer of the Arms
Control Association of Washington D.C.
