Features Meet Meetze Facilities Planning: Campus Keeps Pace with College
By SUZANNE CRAYMER and JENNIFER HOFFMAN

Look around. Faces change, people change, and with them, Davidson changes. Grover Meetze, head of facilities planning, has been meeting
the changing needs of Davidson for 25 years. Through remodeling, building, and developing, he has successfully preserved the basic design
statement of the campus while accommodating changing priorities.

Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze discusses plans with college staff.

Current campus needs include a large sports complex and expanded student housing. As with every new project, Meetze encourages questions
and input from all sides: students, faculty, administration, alumni, town members, and outside architects and planners. “I want to involve
the world,” says Meetze.

Meetze’s ability to successfully incorporate design with Davidson’s needs is reflected in his past projects as well. These have included
Richardson Dorm, Cunningham Fine Arts Building, Perkins Auditorium, and the E. H. Little Library. The conversion of the old library
to the present guest house especially reflects Meetze’s principle of remodeling rather than rebuilding. Meetze stresses excellence and architectural balance,
following the standards and design set by Phi and Eu Halls.

Meetze also believes in maintaining Davidson’s open atmosphere. “Sometimes the best use of space is no use,” Meetze affirms. As
a basic rule of thumb, Meetze strives to convey the feeling of comfort in his designs. An attempt to localize
buildings with respect to their use is another consideration. Present organization includes centralized academic, sports, housing, social, and administrative areas.

The Facilities Planning Office, located at #9 Jackson Court, is designed to serve the students, both past and present. Meetze,
a Davidson graduate from the class of ’55, emphasizes this by saying, “I’m still a student.” His enthusiasm for learning
and growing manifests itself in his work. Facilities planning affects future students as well. Recent studies have shown that a
majority of students choose a college for its environment before its academics. “This is why first impressions are so crucial,”
states Meetze.

For a quarter of a century, Grover Meetze has played a profound role in shaping Davidson’s campus, and hopefully, his
influence will extend far into the future. Always planning ahead, however, Meetze has advice to pass on to his successor.
He intends to leave that person with a copy of the large photograph which hangs in his office. The picture,
taken in front of Phi and Eu halls, shows large grassy fields in the foreground, with several buildings and a
group of students attending an outdoor class in the background. Meetze views this photograph as a reminder. “When you’ve got
a good thing, don’t mess it up.” The picture embodies everything he believes to be essential to Davidson’s development: the
wide, open spaces preserved, the involvement of people, and the maintenance of the historical architecture.

Whitewater rafting helps spark personal interaction
By STAN HYNDS

The water was indeed white. Our rafts were sleek and (I don’t mind telling you) we looked good, smartly decked
in paddle jackets and wet suits. Mild temperatures and magnificent fall color graced our weekend as well. The elements were
highly favorable for an exciting run, and we were not disappointed.

A group of 30 Davidsonians, in association with Davidson Outdoors, pulled off a smashing whitewater raft trip on the French
Broad River on October 16 and 17. In the immortal words of Ed Daugherty, “We red-lined the fun meter.”

It is clear to me, however, that our raft trip, like all outdoor experiences, was only partly comprised of the
actual physical adventure. This trip, which began with an overnighter...At Mill Ridge, provided me not so much with whitewater memories,
but instead with memories attributable to personal interaction and observation. The uniqueness of the environment created an unavoidable kinship with
the other participants. It is one reason outdoor experiences are so valuable. It is certainly the reason I’m glad I
was part of the outing on the French Broad River last weekend.

So I’m reminded not only of maneuvering (however clumsily) through a rapid called “the Maze,” but also of Chef Julia
Walsh playing musical spaghetti sauce with three pots of sauce and two stoves. And the fearsome sight of a regatta
of funyaks (affectionately termed “ducks” for the waddling path they take in flat water) is no more vivid in my
mind than that of Kim “Carsick” Crabtree smiling bravely through green gills as we wound swiftly over a twisting mountain
road to our put-in point.

The raft guides’ commands of “All forward! All back!” and (my personal favorite) “Drift!” echo no more clearly than the
words of Randy “Guitar” Lewis: “I wanna wash some dishes.” We all got a chuckle out of Ford “Foilage” Shippey’s
admission that, “I used to think foilage was a dirty word.” Ford, I might add, is an alarming sight in
the morning. Deepak “Deeptan” Talwar and Ranjit “Two Ls and a Q” Rawlley broadened my understanding of Indian culture as
well as my Hindi vocabulary. Tina “the Electron” Laidlaw served up her famous wilderness hash browns which are fast approaching
legendary status. On the other hand, Joe “Pasta” Hammond was largely responsible for the most heinous batch of noodle gruel
I’ve ever had to pitch. And it was a good thing Diana Titus “Hyphen” Allen was along to lead us
in swell campfire games and activities. Determined to beat the cold, Margaret “Polar Bear” Bledsoe wore enough clothes to bed
to render her immobile. Meanwhile, Lindsey “It Was Cold” Forsythe said, “It was cold.”

But this was a raft trip and indeed, there were memorable moments on the water as well. Joe and Deepak
demonstrated their personal versions of funyak rolls providing some good viewing for those of us who managed to stay inside
our boats. Mike “Cousteau” Meyer certainly had the most discerning view of the river bottom as he tended to use
his craft more like a submarine than an inflatable raft. The guideless team of Dan and Hill Harris, Chuong Vu,
and Sigrid Cook was impressive in its self-guided missile. Mealtime on the river was a highlight. The friendly outfitters from
Nantahala Outdoor Center pack a very decent lunch. And Chip “I didn’t eat breakfast” Cole made his way through the
food line at least twice. By the time we reached the take-out point, the tired crew was ready for a
hot shower (which they really didn’t get) and a dry set of clothes.

Two of my personal trip heroes were Drew “Pneumonia” Henderson who shared his talents behind the wheel and in front
of the stove even though illness left him unable to enjoy the rafting, and Robert “Nikon” Nesbit who shot photos
of the trip and, along with Diana, put together a stirring display in the Union Lobby. By any measure, this
trip was a success. Whitewater rafting is a thrill. What is even better, though, is getting along in an inspiring
environment with a diverse group of students and staff. I am grateful to have been a part of that group.
I hope you will feel the same way when you come along with Davidson Outdoors.
