2

GIFT FUND

The Chaplain’s Office and the Chapel Committee are collecting donations for Jubilee House in Statesville as their Christmas Gift Fund.
Jubilee House Community, Inc. provides winter shelter for street people, education for peace and justice, shelter for battered women and
their children, and victims of sexual assault. Emergency shelter for the temporarily homeless, travelers aid for those stranded away from
home, and Christmas dinner for the poor and those who are alone. Please contribute in the boxes in Chambers and
the Union, or to the Chapel Committee representative in your dorm. Your gift can make a big difference!

TEACHERS NEEDED

The Foreign and Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six
hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad.

Since 1968, the organization has been finding vacancies and locating teachers both in foreign countries and in all fifty states.
It possesses hundreds of current openings and has all the available information about scholarships, grants, and fellowships. Anyone wishing additional
information about the organization may write The National Teacher’s Placement Agency, Universal Teachers, Box 5231, Portland, Oregon 97208.

YMCA

The YMCAs of Charlotte and Mecklenburg will be conducting a YMCA Camp Placement Day for college students interested in summer
camp employment. Students with skills in aquatics, music, general sports, arts and crafts, gymnastics, soccer, nature and ecology, are encouraged
to attend. Background in working with children, planning, leading and conducting a variety of activities is helpful.

The program will be held on Tuesday, December 29, 1987, at the Central YMCA, 400 Morehead Street from 10:00-3:00 P.M.
YMCA camp representatives from YMCA Camp Thunderbird, Harris YMCA, Johnson YMCA, McCrorey YMCA, North Meck YMCA, YMCA Program Center, and
the Simmons YMCA will be in attendance.

For more information concerning the YMCA Camp Placement Day contact Merilee Meschefske, 333-6206, Johnston Memorial YMCA.

SGA UPDATE

In its regular meeting Tuesday night, the SGA Senate discussed extensively the issue of whether or not an International Student
Senate Seat should be created. Several senators favor the proposal in the hope that the move would help integrate international
students into the Davidson community more fully. However, a few senators were uneasy about creating a new seat for a
non-social group because they felt the international students are represented by the independent senators, and that, if this seat were
created, it would be difficult to limit the precedent. In the coming weeks the Senate will be debating further the
issue when it has more facts and after senators have had a chance to talk with international students.

The ad hoc Computer Committee nominated and the Senate approved Diana Long to fill the student vacancy on the Computer
Advisory Board, and finally, the Career Symposium Committee will be having a meeting in the coming week. All students on
this committee will receive notice.

- Robert Smalley

Friday, December 11, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Clothing for the HOLIDAYS

Dress, Casual, or Formal - come see our good choices.

Open Thursday and Friday nights until 9 P.M. till Christmas

Frozen Yogurt - Sandwiches To Go - Imported Beer - Wines - Cheeses - Coffees - N.C. Pottery - Gift
Baskets

Resources

Open for Lunch 7 Days a week
Check Our Daily Specials

128 N. Main St. 704/ 892-7521
Opening on Wednesday Nights until 9 p.m.
Live Entertainment

Apparel for men and women

Downtown Davidson
MON.-THURS.

128 N. Main St. Downtown Mooresville

phones: 664-4711 or 663-3701

CELEBRATE The Holiday Season

Remember Main Street For That Special Gift

Hardcover and Paperback books
*Quality Magazines
*Greeting Cards/Postcards
*Children's Books, Toys
*Bookends/ Miscellaneous Gifts

892-3940
