Saturday, October 10, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

IMAC update: flickerball hits stride

By STEPHEN W. BELL

Once again the coming of Fall has brought the flickerball faithful back to Davidson in droves, and this year’s teams shouldn’t disappoint them. The hard grind and sweat of preseason camps are over, and the resulting improvement in play has made all the squads good. The Big Three - SAE, PIKA, and KA - are again the favorites heading into the campaign, but it is too early to count anyone out at this stage. The only clash of the Titans to this point occurred in the exhibition game between SAE and KA, won by KA in the closing seconds. In regular season play, neither has yet to be tested, and PIKA has breezed as well. Many wonder if these teams will finish out the year though, because rumor has it that the Atlanta Falcons are trying to recruit the players for their scab team. But this insider is confident they will stay here due to the prestige associated with the IMAC title.

Looking at the rest of the men’s league, the freshmen halls are slowly comprehending the game, with Third East and Second Little paving the way in offensive innovation. Alec Macallister tends to downplay his team’s offensive threat, insisting that “our defense is the backbone of this club. Not since the days of Pittsburgh’s ‘Steel Curtain’ has the game seen such a dominating defensive force.” Freshmen are still learning the finer points of the game however - a fact that upperclass teams such as Butt Pirates and Damned Comanches undoubtedly relish - and will probably wind up on the short end of many a drubbing early in the season.

In the women’s league, Insatiables again looks like the team to beat, as Leslie Urban and crew run an offense only slightly less intricate than Miami’s. The Fighting Fourth of Richardson appears to have caught on quickly, as evidenced by the 21-0 whipping of Third Rich. Other teams, meanwhile, must understand that no one has ever been killed by a thrown football and that broken nails are not the end of the world.

Will SAE successfully defend their title? Will some upstarts come out of nowhere to take it all? No one can be certain at this point, but whatever happens it will certainly prove entertaining to the avid fan.

Sophomore Jim Walker caught a goalie in mid-flight.

Hilarious scab action and the baseball playoffs

By ANTHONY MCCARRON

In this week’s column, I’d like to split time between the first week of scab action in the NFL and a preview of the baseball playoffs. Highlighting some of the action in the initial week of scab play was excitement on every kicking play. Granted, the replacement players had only limited time to prepare for their first game, but the special teams plays were hilarious. Every punt had as many thrills as a new Indiana Jones movie. Missed snaps, blocked punts, all kinds of fumbles, and 18-yard punts were all the order of the day. There were at least three blocked punts returned for touchdowns, which must have prompted coaches across the nation to turn away on fourth-and-no-chance.

TV commentators spent most of Sunday and Monday reminding us that we were all seeing a serious decrease in the quality of league play. What they don’t realize is that many starved pro football fans loved the action anyway. Plus, there were some outstanding individual efforts. Fans say they miss the stars of the NFL like Payton, Taylor, Elway, and Montana, but how about the play of Redskin WR Anthony Allen, Saint QB John Fourcade, and Oiler QB Brent Pease? Allen had 7 catches for 255 yards (a Redskin record) and scored 3 touchdowns. Fourcade threw for 222 yards and 3 touchdowns, while Pease threw for 260 yards and a touchdown, and rushed for another. The scab teams definitely provided some entertainment over this football weekend, whether it was the 49ers’ use of the wishbone.On Monday night, or the interest that picket-line crossing players such as Gary Hogeboom, Mark Gastineau, and Randy White stirred up. Hopefully, with reports that player demands are lessening, coming from wherever it is that Gene Upshaw and Jack Donlan are meeting, we’ll see a quick end to this foolishness. Until then, more power to the scabs and the players who are crossing the picket lines. Many players don’t have the time left in their careers to waste throwing jelly doughnuts at strike breakers, so kudos to them when they come to their senses and cross over the ridiculous picket line. Until the strike ends, though, I am rooting for the scab players all the way.

Now, let’s talk about the Major League playoffs. At this writing, the Cardinals are up 1-0 in games by virtue of a fine performance on the mound and at the plate by St. Louis starter Greg Mathews. Mathews tossed 7 and 1/3 innings of 4-hit ball and chipped in with a 2-run single. Obviously, this loss hurts the Giants, but for more reasons than just the fact that they are down 1-0. The Giants pitched their ace, Rick Reuschel, in hopes of striking quickly with a win in St. Louis. Reuschel, however, exited after getting tagged for 5 runs in 6 innings. This puts the Giants at a disadvantage. They have to come back with less than their best to even the series. The Cards, on the other hand, don’t have that problem. Mathews was informed only 4 hours before the first pitch of game 1 that he was to be the starter. Danny Cox, originally slated to start the game, had to be scratched because of a stiff neck. The Cards, then, got away with a win without their number one on the mound. This gives them the opportunity to come back with John Tudor or Danny Cox in Game 2. If, in fact, the Cards do take the first two, they’ll have a stranglehold on the pennant. It’s awfully difficult to come back from such a deficit, especially against a team that seemingly can always find a way to beat you, like the Cardinals. It makes any prognosticator’s job easier when he has a game in hand, but you have to like the Cardinals’ chances to be the NL entrant in the Fall Classic.

Over in the junior circuit, the Twins and Tigers are set to square off for Game One Wednesday night in Minnesota. The Twins have a great advantage in that there are 4 games in the Metrodome and they have the best home record in baseball. However, the Tigers do have the best road record in the AL, and they are coming off an emotional, momentum-building 3-game sweep over the second place Toronto Blue Jays. In a true hookup of aces, Frank Viola goes for the Twins against Doyle Alexander for the Tigers. Viola was 17-10 with a 2.90 ERA, while Alexander fashioned a 9-0 won-lost record for Detroit. The Twins are laden with young talent in the form of Kirby Puckett, Kent Hrbek, Gary Gaetti, and Viola, but the Tigers have the chemistry. Everything had to fall into place for the Tigers to beat the powerful Blue Jays for the AL East flag. Now, they have everything together. Solid pitching, clutch performers, and a red-hot MVP candidate Alan Trammell, point towards a Detroit victory in this series. Watch for Viola, though, he has the tools to check in with a Mike Scott-like performance (remember last year’s playoffs?) and give the young Twins a lift into the series. However, if he stays human, the Tigers will prevail, setting up a rematch of the 1968 Series.