4 Phon-a-thon nets $152,000 for Fund
By MARIA DOUGLAS

The SGA Phon-a-thon topped its Sesquicentennial goal of $150,000 by raising approximately $152,000. “That’s apparently the most ever made,” said
Charlis Winn, one of three SGA Phon-a-thon chairpersons. Becky Castleman and John Black, along with Millie Snyder, director of the
Phon-a-thon, and Gracia Slater, director of the Annual Fund, were organizers of this fund-raising event.

“We started organizing the Phon-a-thon early fall term,” said Winn. “We had weekly meetings to go over crucial things like
which groups to put together, renting phones, finding a T-shirt design, ordering T-shirts, deciding which nights to hold the Phon-a-thon,
getting night chairpersons from each house, and publicity.”

The organization paid off. Over 350 students participated from November 30 through December 8, placing between 600 and 700 calls
a night to raise $152,000, up $7,000 from last year. “We hoped we would do as well as we did
but we really didn’t expect it with the economic recession. But it didn’t have a negative effect at all,” Winn
said.

The Phon-a-thon is the last leg of the Annual Fund’s money-raising efforts for the year. The money raised goes towards
the school’s annual operating costs. The Living Endowment also supplies WDAV and the Wildcat Club with funds for operation. Phon-a-thon
proceeds make up a good part of the $2 million that the Annual Fund raises, said Snyder.

The Annual Fund raises most of its money through each class’ fundraising chairman who writes a letter asking all the
people in that class to contribute. Later, class agents call the alumni as a follow-up. Snyder said, “We use the
Phon-a-thon to get in touch with people who have fallen through the cracks.” The Phon-a-thon is also used to solicit
contributions from parents of currently enrolled Davidson students.

This year saw the addition of two groups to the Phon-a-thon schedule. Freshmen and independents were given a night to
get them more involved with the school and to provide non-affiliated students with an opportunity to raise money for the
school. The freshmen and independents together produced the event’s third highest nightly fundraising total—$23,556. They followed Sigma Alpha Epsilon, which
came in first with $27,924, and Kappa Alpha, which was second with $26,234.

An eager, forthright Phon-a-thon worker.

Friday, December 11, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Robert Nesbit
Report from Awareness Weekend in Charlotte
By LUCIA KENDALL

What do you do when your teeth fall out? What do you do when it’s so cold your hands swell
up? What do you do when you’re spending another night on the street and you can’t fall asleep? These were
questions a homeless man asked freshman Margaret Carroll, a participant in Awareness Weekend. “I didn’t know what to say to
him,” she commented later. “I realized that something as normal as going to the dentist was something this man couldn’t
do. It was so hard to relate to them.”

Experiences like these were not unusual when twenty Davidson students and college chaplain Brenda Tapia spent last weekend in inner-city
Charlotte. They slept in the sanctuary of Christ the King Center, an Episcopal church which, among other projects, sponsors a
daycare program and houses Habitat for Humanity. Groups of students visited a day shelter for the homeless, repaired walls in
Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church, started to build a house with Habitat for Humanity, and painted in Power the King Center.

The main purposes of the weekend, according to former Davidson chaplain Charlie Summers, who led the trip, were to make
students more aware of what living in the inner city is like, of what various ministries are doing in these
situations, and of ways students can help make a difference. Participants named other goals, including wanting a chance to get
to know each other, a desire to see that the world really does exist beyond the campus, and a hope
to help people who are truly in need.

Many students named the sense of community experienced during the weekend as one of its best features. As senior Linda
Tatsapaugh put it: “Maybe working for a good cause pulls people together; we sure became one very quickly. This is
where God is.”

One of the most striking aspects of the ministries in action was that they didn’t just meet physical needs. Sophomore
Jay Clugston noted that people who live in the homes Habitat builds are not just getting a building, they’re getting
self-confidence. Christiane Hinrichs was impressed by how happy the members of the Seigle Avenue Church’s girls club were because someone
cared about them.

One Habitat volunteer made an especially profound impact on all the Davidson students he talked to. Senior Michael Poulos said,
“Jimmy had been in prison for murder, but you could see how God had changed his life and had given
him a second chance. His attitude was: be happy—life is too short.” Senior Julie Lehman added, “It was great to
see whatthe Lord can do even through a bad experience like prison to make good come out of it.” When
Summers asked the group what had surprised them, he received a variety of responses. Freshman Sarah Dorna was surprised that
“the homeless were willing to share their concerns, a lot of which were spiritual rather than physical. Some of the
people seemed happy despite their conditions, and others seemed totally without energy.” Sophomore Therese Gyauch, who worked for Habitat, was
amazed at how much the group could do. “When we got to the site, there were only two places where
(digging for the foundation) had even been started. But we dug and dug and dug, and by the end of
the day I looked up and there was a big ditch all the way around—it really happened! We started to
do a little; we were just out there having fun, and talking while we worked. If people care, it gets
done.”

“I hadn’t realized how much our just taking time out to come would mean to the people and how ready
most of them were to talk,” noted freshman Laurie Reams. “I never expected to have a dumpster lid fall on
my head,” said freshman Kristin Snyder. “That was frustrating because I felt bad for sitting around doing nothing while everyone
else was working hard.” Participants were also surprised to see that everyone pitched in and put forth so much effort.
This attitude was apparent not only in the manual labor, but also in the fact that people cheerfully volunteered to
wash dishes and to get up early to make breakfast. Tatsapaugh observed, “There must be something spiritual about helping people
who need you because I saw high spirits in everyone, even after a day of digging ditches, building walls and
spilling paint all over ourselves. The possibility of feeling this for a lifetime, of working full time like this, excites
me.”

The students were delighted to see several Davidson professors building homes with Habitat for Humanity. A lot of the situations
the students came into contact with really bothered or offended them. Reams, after hearing about the families in Piedmont Courts,
a low-income housing project across the street from Seigle Avenue Presbyterian, remarked, “I was shocked to find out that such
a high number of teen pregnancies existed.” “Children aren’t getting what they need,” observed Gyauch. “Their mothers are still children
themselves.” Those who worked at Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church, an inner-city congregation where Summers is now pastor, did repairs from
a flood. Freshman Tindal Davis commented that “putting rotten baseboards back on a new wall bothered me, because it was
such an evident example of the enormous difference in lifestyles and way of thinking. I realized that something as normal
as buying materials was not automatic for them. They didn’t have the money to spend.”

What bothered Dorna was her inability to find quick solutions—or any solutions—to the problems of the poor. One of the
most powerful aspects of the experience was seeing that in the midst of seemingly hopeless situations, God was at work.
A striking example of the impact of inner-city ministry was Richard Campbell. Summers told the group that his many projects
included a girls club at Seigle Avenue for high school students. Fifteen teenagers became active in the group, and at
the end of two years two of them had become pregnant. From the eighteen girls from the same housing project
who were not involved in it, twenty babies were born in the same time period. Summers explained that many girls
have never had love within their families, and Campbell becomes a father figure for them. Since he can help them
experience God’s love, they do not have to turn to sex as a substitute for it.

The experience made a long-term impression on many of those who participated. Poulos, on his fourth awareness weekend, was reminded
that “yes, there are tangible ways to communicate God’s word and to learn to love others.” Freshman Lisa Gerrard said,
“One of the things I’ll take back with me when the weekend is over is knowing that I must seek
to put Christ first in my life at Davidson, then all other things will follow.” Senior Jennings Craig wants to
be able “to keep my eyes open, even if it hurts.” “I really saw that even though I cannot do
everything, I can do something to help,” junior Justin Broughton observed. Chaplain Tapia enjoyed the time spent talking with students
in the kitchen Friday and Saturday night. “It’s reassuring to see that there are people who want to know, people
who want to do. There’s hope for the world yet.”
