2 Careers Symposium to be held

The 1987 SGA Careers Symposium will be held Tuesday, Jan. 20 through Thursday, Jan. 22. The symposium provides Davidson students
of all classes an opportunity to meet and talk with professionals from a variety of career fields. Seniors looking for
an edge in finding a job and all students interested in investigating a potential career are urged to take advantage
of the Careers Symposium and attend the various presentations, open luncheons, and free wine and cheese parties offered during the
three days.

The professionals coming to Davidson represent a broad cross-section of local, regional, and national leaders in fields as diverse as
banking and ministry, politics and sports administration, and marketing and social services. A complete schedule may be found below. Presentations
and discussions will be held in posted rooms on Chambers, with open luncheons in the 900 Room. Additional information will
be posted and delivered the week of the symposium, and an information desk will be located in the Chambers lobby
the 20th to 22nd.

Tuesday, Jan. 20:
12:30 p.m.: Open Luncheon: A mock interview conducted by First Union's Manager of College Recruiting, Shannon McFayden.
4:30 p.m.: International Law: E. Thomas Watson, Parker, Poe, Bernstein et al., Charlotte.
— Psychology/Counseling: Tom Plott, Ballard and Wheeler, Charlotte.
— Educational Adm./Teaching: Bill Strong and Jimmy Poole, Alexander Jr. High, Huntersville.
— Public Relations: Warren Steen, Director of P.R. for City of Winston-Salem.
— Social Services: Jerry Allen, Planned Parenthood, Charlotte.
7:30 p.m.: Advertising: Robert Neal, Media Manager, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, Winston-Salem.
— Corporate Law: Adrian Wilson, Smith, Helms, Mulliss, and Moore, Charlotte.
— Ministry: Richard Banks, Christ the King Center, Charlotte.
— T.V./Media: Jimmy Rayburn, Jefferson-Pilot Teleproductions, Charlotte.
— Surgery: Dr. Charles Marshall, Charlotte.

Wednesday, Jan. 21:
4:30 p.m.: Personnel Management: David McClintock, First Union, Charlotte.
— Politics: D.G. Martin, Kennedy, Covington et al., Charlotte.
— Sports Administration: H.A. Wheeler, Charlotte Motor Speedway.
— Foreign Service: Ambassador James Leonard.
— International Banking: Ingeborg Hegenbart, president of Southern International Corp.
7:30 p.m.: Medicine: Dr. Rob Beamon, Davidson Clinic.
— Marketing: Kenny Wilson, Proctor and Gamble, Charlotte.
— Investments: Eric Nichols, Interstate Securities, Charlotte.
— Banking: Ross Sloan '86 and Sam Sloan, First Union Management Trainee and City Executive for NCNB, respectively, Asheville and
Charlotte.

Thursday, Jan. 22:
12:30 p.m.: Open Luncheon: Will Terry will moderate a panel talking on advantages of taking a year off during or
after school before embarking on a career.
4:30 p.m.: Entrepreneurship: Tom Cox, Cox-Little and Company, Computers, Charlotte.
— Hospital Administration: Sarah Williamson, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Hospital Authority.
— Court System: Peter Gilchrist, District Attorney, Mecklenburg County.
— Hotel Management: Connie Kyle, Guest Quarters, Charlotte.
— Arts Administration: Steve Musgrove, Mint Museum of Charlotte.

Wine and cheese social hours will be held all three days after the afternoon presentations.

Salsbury speaks on U.S. foreign policy

Dr. William Salsbury, a professor of political science at the University of South Carolina, spoke on U.S. foreign policy regarding
Central America and the Presbyterian viewpoint on that issue. Salsbury showed a film made by the Presbyterian church. Wyche Fowler,
a Davidson alumnus, was present to speak as well. Fowler proposed the U.S. cease military support for the contras and
promote negotiations between the disputing parties. Salsbury said the U.S. should seek accord with “friendly regimes.” He suggested that it
is “not possible to resolve the issues of poverty in the immediate political time frame.” He suggested that Mexico is
a potential problem since it is “extremely unstable.” He suggested that the political strife in many areas of Central America
could soon spread to Mexico. Both, agreeing with a number of faculty and staff present, said that opinions are widely
varied and no one agrees on all issues involved in Central America.

Friday, January 16, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson
Material contributed by Jody Hart

Mills to speak on marriage and literature

Visiting lecturer in English Elizabeth Mills will discuss “Marriage in Literature and Life” Jan. 19. Mills’ talk will focus on
Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s story “The Yellow Wallpaper.” The program is sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee and will begin at
5 p.m. in the Union. There is no admission charge, and a free supper will follow the discussion. For more
information, call 892-2000, ext. 140.

Soviets call for arms talks, Iran renews attack
By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the news for the week Jan. 9-15:
Around the World — The Soviet Union called for a one-on-one meeting between the heads of the U.S. and Soviet
arms-control delegations, which began talks Thursday in Geneva. Soviet K.G.B. head Viktor Chebrikov said a number of K.G.B. officials had
been punished for the illegal arrest of a Soviet reporter last year who exposed government corruption in acoal mining area
of Ukraine. President Reagan asked the Senate to ratify two long-pending nuclear test-ban treaties and said the treaties should not
take effect until the Soviets accept on-site verification procedures. Secretary of State George Shultz, on a six-nation tour of sub-Saharan
Africa, met with Nigerian officials to discuss ways of curbing “a considerable flow” of heroin from Nigeria to the U.S.
Members of the South African United Democratic Front (UDF), an anti-apartheid group, said South African authorities detained without charge the
leader of the group. Two newspaper groups said they would launch legal challenges against the South African government’s new bans
on press reporting. Iran attacked the Iraqi capital of Baghdad and the port city of Basra. Iraq said its troops
repulsed the assaults. Anglican envoy Terry Waite said “good progress” is being made in efforts to free the American and
French hostages being held in Lebanon. Gunmen in Beirut kidnapped a French reporter covering Waite’s mission. Philippine President Corazon Aquino
announced that local elections will be held Aug. 24. About 30,000 protesters burned copies of her proposed new constitution, which
they charged is “pro-imperialist.” Moslem rebels blew up bridges and knocked down power lines in four southern provinces of the
Philippines. The State Department said it has begun a damage-assessment investigation following the arrest of a Marine guard last month
in Vienna at the U.S. embassy. The marine is suspected of allowing Soviet spies into embassies in the Soviet Union
and Austria. China expelled from the Communist party Shanghai writer Hu Yaobang for his “bourgeois liberal” views and for his
handling of recent pro-democracy student demonstrations. Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping said anti-socialist ideas posed a greater threat to Chinese society
than thousands of protesting students.

Federal and congressional investigators revealed data showing that the CIA’s role in recruiting, training, and arming the Nicaraguan rebels was
greater than the CIA or White House had previously acknowledged. Across the Nation — A secret Senate Intelligence Committee report
obtained by NBC said former National Security Advisor John Poindexter had played a larger role in the Iran-Contra affair than
was previously suspected. The report said Poindexter condoned the apparently illegal diversion of Iran arms profits to the Nicaraguan rebels
because, “I felt sorry for the Contras.” Federal authorities in Puerto Rico charged a hotel maintenance worker and Teamsters union
member with 96 counts of murder in the Dupont Plaza hotel fire. Federal rail officials said the engineer and brakeman
on a Conrail locomotive that collided with an Amtrak train both tested positive for marijuana. Officials said the train was
exceeding speed restrictions by 23 mph, but have not determined whether either of these factors contributed to the fatal crash
of Jan. 4. The Supreme Court ruled 6-3 that states may require employers to give women disability leave for pregnancy
and childbirth. A Federal judge imposed $115,000 in penalties on the Veterans Administration for the unlawful destruction of thousands of
documents the agency had been ordered to produce in a lawsuit. NASA engineers said they are continuing plans to equip
the space shuttle Discovery with an escape system for the astronauts. Officials said a pre-flight test firing of Discovery’s rockets
will probably be needed. The launch is scheduled for Feb. 18, 1988. Members of Congress told Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger
that Democrats will seek ways to cut the Pentagon’s $312 billion request for fiscal 1988. Senators also told Education Secretary
William Bennett that Congress will reject his plan to cut education spending by thirty percent.

In Economic Headlines — The nation’s jobless rate fell to 6.7 percent in December, the lowest level since March 1980.
Producer prices were unchanged, resulting in a 2.5 percent drop for the year 1986, the first annual producer price decline
since 1963. Nations of the European Common Market negotiated a realignment of the European monetary system and agreed to boost
the German mark’s value by three percent against the French franc. U.S. and British officials said the two countries have
signed a pioneering regulatory agreement that will impose on banks of Britain and the United States almost identical standards for
levels of capital they must maintain. The Dow Jones industrial average, which measures thirty blue-chip stocks, surpassed the 2,000 mark
last Friday for the first time ever. The indicator soared to a record close of 2035.01 Wednesday. The Supreme Court
decided 8-0 that banks may operate discount brokerage offices around the country. Five major banks showed earnings gains of 4.9
percent to 30 percent for the fourth quarter.
