Monday, September 21, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN: Around the horn

What ever happened to the good old days?
By HAP BRYANT

As the baseball pennant races draw to a close, let’s look at some of baseball’s all-time great feats. After all,
statistics and records comprise the crux of the sport, so what better way exists to explore and remember baseball’s great
past?

First, the 56-game hitting streak of Joe DiMaggio. In 1941, the “Yankee Clipper” took the American League by storm, hitting
safely in 56 consecutive games. In those days, no team existed west of the Mississippi, so travel was not as
extensive as it is today. Although Milwaukee’s Paul Molitor flirted with the record this summer, he could only reach the
39-game plateau before being stranded on deck against the Indians. Before Molitor, Pete Rose established a new National League mark
in 1978, hitting in 44 consecutive contests. Due to travel and injuries today, many experts say DiMaggio’s streak will never
be broken. They said that Paul Molitor’s feat was playing in 39 straight games, not really hitting in those games.
For these reasons, I tend to agree on the permanence of DiMaggio’s record.

Secondly, Don Drysdale’s 58 scoreless inning string for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1968. Holding major league hitters scoreless over
9 innings is a feat in itself. The great pitchers of today (what few there seem to be) usually collect
4 or 5 each year. In 1968, Drysdale collected 6 in a row and 4 innings in addition. Obviously, this
record seems unreachable today. Just a few days ago, Toronto eclipsed an age-old mark by hitting 10 home runs in
an 18-inning game. The advantage is currently moving toward the hitters, as the human arm remains the same in the
face of better bat and ball technology, as well as strength training, aiding the hitters. Such a scoreless inning streak
would be all but impossible today.

Thirdly, Bob Gibson’s season earned run average of 1.12 in 1968. Gibson struck fear into the hearts of batters with
his powerful delivery, his tailing fastball, and his competitiveness. Gibson would stand on the mound, an imposing figure at 6’6”
and glare down the opposition. By then he had already won most of the battle. Then he came in with
his 95-m.p.h. fastball or his 90-m.p.h. slider, catching the batter totally unaware. Like Drysdale’s feat, Gibson’s E.R.A. mark could stand
for decades if the hitters continue to improve.

Fourth, Lou Gehrig’s consecutive game streak. In his career for the New York Yankees, the “Iron Horse” played in 2,130
straight games. He played with broken fingers and toes as well as through illness. He led the Yankees to seven
world championships in the 1920s and 1930s. Like DiMaggio’s record, present conditions make this mark unreachable. Although Steve Garvey played
in many games for the Dodgers and Padres over the last decade, he finally fell victim to injury in a
game 2 years ago and was forced to sit out. The Braves’ Dale Murphy had a long streak of consecutive
games as well, but the strain of travel took its toll, and his manager decided to rest him periodically to
enhance his performance. Thus, though active players may try, the 162-game season and travel fatigue make reaching Gehrig’s mark impossible.

Lastly, the pitching record of Cy Young. In 21 years of service, Young compiled a record of 511 wins to
315 defeats. Although the winning percentage may not seem that great, the mark of 511 victories probably will never be
attained again. Defeating major league teams 20 to 25 times a season is considered an accomplishment these days. In order
for a pitcher to gain 511 career wins, he would have to win 20 games for over 25 years. A
man would have to be almost immortal to accomplish this feat. Once again, travel and the long season take their
toll and diminish the player’s prime to about 10 years, if that long. Thus, Young’s record will stand firm for
decades to come.

These precedents set in the glory years of major league baseball amaze us today. How could such marks be reached?
We must credit the fortitude of the human athlete, who overcomes adversity and continues diligently in quest of his goal.
Baseball is unique because these individual accomplishments must occur in the larger team-oriented realm. In this area, the next month
will prove crucial in determining what figures will outlive themselves in the legends of the 1987 World Series.

Cheap seat comments: thepennant races
By KEN BOGERT

An excellent year for major league baseball. Yes, this year outshines any in recent memory. Attendance increases in both the
American and National leagues prove that baseball has never been so entertaining. Question: why has the baseball fan returned to
the park? Answer: the fan most likely has come down with pennant fever. With the fierce competition in all four
divisions, no one team has dominated play in any of them; many teams from all across the nation have stayed
in their respective races right through the “dog days of August” and into September. The closeness of the races has
made baseball exciting to watch in many cities and has brought fans to the ball park.

Last year, the Mets ran away with the N.L. Eastern Division. By early September they had already clinched the divisional
title. Baseball fans in New York were excited to be sure, but what about fans in St. Louis, Philadelphia, Montreal,
Chicago, and Pittsburgh — they had nothing to cheer about since their teams were already mathematically eliminated. The other three
divisions were closer than the N.L. East, but far from being a race to the wire. The Red Sox, Astros,
and Angels outclassed all their opponents by a reasonable margin. Without the excitement of close pennant races, the fan got
bored, stayed home, and fell asleep in front of the game on TV which the Mets won anyway, ho-hum.

This year has been different. Fans in Minnesota, Oakland, Kansas City, Anaheim, Seattle, and even in Texas have seen their
teams of the A.L. West stick close through the summer. Each is capable of winning the division with just a
month of baseball left to play. The same is true for the N.L. West where San Francisco, Houston, and Cincinnati
have stuck together all season. Even the lowly Atlanta Braves could end the season less than ten games out of
first place — Atlanta fans are thrilled. Fans with ulcers, however, are advised to stay away from western division parks
in both leagues. The quality of baseball (from even the first place teams) has triggered many stomach illnesses in fans
as well as in managers this year. Mediocrity is responsible for keeping so many teams in contention out west.

In the superior eastern divisions, baseball remains beautiful to watch unless you root for Cleveland or Baltimore. The A.L. East
has seen the Tigers, Blue Jays, and Yankees play excellent baseball. In the N.L. East, the Cardinals, Mets, and Expos
have also played well. Any one of the six teams would sit in first place if it was in the
western division of either league. These teams have kept the pressure on each other, and they have all responded positively
by winning close games, in spite of injuries, in extra innings, with big comebacks, with timely hitting and pitching. With
one hundred forty games played, the pennant chasers thrive and head for the stretch neck and neck.

The predictions I made during the spring have been fair, but not good. I liked New York and San Francisco
in the N.L., Texas and Cleveland in the A.L. Cleveland may wind up thirty games off the pace. Texas will
not succeed in the A.L. West. San Francisco looks like it will win in the N.L. West while New York
is close in the N.L. East. To update my predictions, I now re-evaluate the teams still fighting to play post-season
ball.

N.L. West — the Giants have it wrapped up. They had remarkable play from only one offensive player, Will Clark.
The credit belongs to catcher Bob Brenly and manager Roger Craig for turning a mediocre pitching staff into the second
best in the league.

A.L. West — who cares? Minnesota will probably win, but does not have the talent to beat anyone in post-season
play.

N.L. East — tough decision. The Cards have a healthier pitching staff than the Mets; but the Mets’ powerful lineup,
including Howard Johnson, Keith Hernandez, and Darryl Strawberry, will put them past St. Louis. This opinion, however, is rather biased
— let’s go, Mets!

A.L. East — Detroit is old and Toronto is young. I like youth in this particular instance; consider Lloyd Moseby,
George Bell, Tony Fernandez, and Tom Henke as Toronto’s greatest assets.
