By THE BOOZE BROTHERS

And now for you lovers of culture, it’s time for sport. We've got some good news for you... as a
parting gesture to the college (and also to spite Oral Roberts), Charlie Chaplain has performed one of the greatest miracles
of our age and raised the old Booze Brothers column from the dead. Except we are not the same old
Booze Brothers that we used to be back in '83 — we're the Born Again Booze Brothers. That’s B.A.B.B. for
short.

It’s certainly good to be alive again, to see the freshmints walking cluelessly around in flocks (or herds as the
case may be after a few weeks of commons food); to hear the lovely sounds of Judas Priest, The Fat
Boys, REM, Whitney Houston, AC/DC, J. S. Bach, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Tiny Tim, The Beastie Boys, Willie Nelson, Run DMC, and
The Cure simultaneously from the quad; to smell the sweet aroma from the dumpsters behind Little and Watts; to get
trampled by a mob of foaming-at-the-mouth demoniac humanoids in the scramble for the keg at a Hod party; and all
those other lovely little pleasures of the “Davidson experience.”

B.A.B.B. were shocked by the freshmint talent show. It seems this year they tried something completely the opposite of previous
years — to find the least talented freshmint. Unfortunately for the least talented class in Chalmers Davidson’s memory, the show
was stolen by those two very un-funny KKKA hall counselors who MCed this travesty and succeeded in getting a negative
reading on the laughometer.

B.A.B.B. were not aware that fellows who were so good at not being witty actually existed. We came to the
conclusion that although there is little that can be done to fill the void of talent in the new batch
of freshmints, something could be done to improve their lack of knowledge and social awareness of D.C. Thus we are
going to inform you young freshmints of ten things that they didn’t tell you about Davidson during orientation.

“Underage consumption of alcohol is permissible as long as you don’t throw beer cans at those sneaky campus security officers.
Most freshmints (mainly of the Richardson variety) gain considerable amounts of weight eating at the commons.
If the dean of students doesn’t mention your name when he greets you, it’s because he’s forgotten it.
The editor of The Davidsonian regularly sleeps with his Mergenthaler typesetter.
Being published is more im-

Advice to embarrassed freshmen
By BILL SCOUTEN

Picture this: the stage is set and the curtain opens. Out walks a freshman (we'll call him “Jack”). He is
dressed in a tie, coat, and pants. (He looks pretty sharp). As he begins his act, someone yells out... What’s
wrong with this scene? Seemingly nothing is amiss... at least that’s what Jack thinks! In actuality, Jack is about to
be caught smack in the middle of a social spoof, a blunder which promises to embarrass Jack and create table
conversation for at least the next week. Yes, Jack’s fly was unzipped. Jack was embarrassed, in front of the whole
freshman class, not to mention a couple of upperclassmen, but he took it in style. “I just wanted to see
if you could pick it up,” he said.

Or what about the freshman, now a sophomore, who found his car blocked by an illegally parked vehicle? The solution
seemed really elementary to him: put the car into neutral and let gravity do the work. Gravity did its work,
all right, and so did the body shop mechanic on a door that was nearly ripped off its hinges. A
year and six hundred dollars later, his friends still talk of his mishap and laugh: “what a spoof!”

So, what exactly is a spoof? Well, it’s a blunder, an embarrassing happening in one’s life that can, in the
end, be looked upon and laughed at. Stated simply, a spoof is an event so outrageous and socially disturbing that
it merits comment. Freshmen, beware! Watch out for the tell-tale signs of a situation which promises disaster. Look at yourself
closely before leaving your room in the morning; are you fully clothed? If you encounter an illegally parked car in
front of yours in the parking lot, don’t move it; it may have power brakes and thus none at all
while stalled. The final, and probablymost important warning is: BEWARE OF THE BOTTLE. Alcohol is one of the most frequent
causes of social spoofs around the world... too much can cause a regular Davidson student to become the laughingstock of
the campus. So, freshmen, enjoy yourselves, delight in the freedom that Davidson has to offer, but remember, behind every door
lurks a new situation... a poised spoof ready to spring to life. Don’t let it get you!

Editor's note: students, staff, faculty, friends, Romans, countrymen: have you witnessed or been the victim of a spoof recently? Write
in to Mr. Scouten with the particulars. Also: in case you didn’t know, Mr. Scouten was the perpetrator of the
rolling car goof. Let's just keep the record straight, shall we, Bill?

Monday, September 21, more important than being able to teach at D.C. The reason the “Freshman Handbook” is not out
yet is because the original copies were sabotaged by jealous upper-class bovines in a feeble attempt to prevent the upper-class
guys from checking out the exceptionally good-looking females (by Davidson standards) in the class of ’91. B.A.B.B. knows who you
are and we want you to know that it didn’t work.

“If you commit an honor violation you are honor bound to turn yourself in.
‘Rock Hudson used to frequent one of the Patterson Court houses.
‘Cohabitation is allowed as long as it does not continue for more than three consecutive years.
‘Nostradamus’ prophecy for the Apocalypse coincides with the 1987 wildcat football team win.

And now for the B.A.B.B. question of the week: What is the Davidson College connection with Ronnie’s “Star Wars” SDI?
(pick one):
A. The campus dog, “Wompus.”
B. A D.C. physics professor.
C. The “hell raisins” of basement Richardson.
D. Dean Terry’s highly reflective pate.
E. All of the above.

If you know the correct answer, write it on a piece of paper and send it along with a check
for $25 to B.A.B.B. c/o The Davidsonian. You will receive a free Ollie North action doll and B.A.B.B. will forward
your money to the “Bring Jim and Tammy Back Fund.”

Next week: Exclusive interview with Pope John Paul II.

Sound advice— R.E.M. rides the fence.
By LEE EICHELBERGER

Ever been to an R.E.M. concert? They do a lot of covers of old material that most Yuppies-to-be have never
heard of. I wish they would do Johnny Cash’s “I Walk the Line.” I'd like that not because it’s a
great country standard but because it so accurately describes the band’s situation. What other band to date can sell millions
of albums, claim a cult following of American youth, while skirting pop, rock, and underground territory, yet without a top
twenty single? A year ago I might have said U2, but...

I don’t mean to say that R.E.M. is on the brink of exploding into the mainstream. Quite the opposite is
true. R.E.M. has found a comfortable place riding the fence and their latest release only makes it more comfortable. Document
is an album that offers something for everyone. We start with an arena-quality rocker in the form of “Finest Worksong.”
Pausing for a brood, Stipe moans “Welcome to the Occupation.” Next we dabble in a political(!) song (in other words
music w/a message) in which Stipe pokes Yuppies with a rubber knife. (I mean “you’re walking on coals/ to improve
your business acumen” is hardly a biting lyric.) Next the combo transforms Wire’s new wave classic “Strange” into a genuine,
frat boy, house rocker (you can dance to it — even sing along). The album continues with such notables as
“It’s the End of the World as We Know it (and I Feel Fine)” and “Disturbance at the Heron House.”
There’s even one to delight bland radio programmers — “The One I Love.” My personal favorite is “Lightnin’ Hopkins,” the
only R.E.M. song that has really sounded distinctive in years.

Don’t get me wrong — I like the new R.E.M. album... really. But this is not the band that captured
my imagination with Murmur and Chronic Town. Lovers of the band since Fables will add Document to their collections with
glee, but I do so with a sigh and wait for them boys from Athens to get off their fence
and stand up for something other than ambiguity.
