Sports “The Davidsonian” May 1, 1987

Baseball loses in Southern Conference tournament
By MATT NEWSOM

The Wildcat baseball team had a tough weekend as they traveled to Asheville for the Southern Conference Tournament and were sent home from the double-elimination tourney by VMI in a loser’s-bracket game on Sunday. During Saturday’s action, the Keydets had fallen to defending champion Western Carolina, while Davidson was defeated by Appalachian State.

Davidson and Appalachian State opened the tournament on Saturday after rain on Friday set the tournament schedule back one day. On paper, the game had the makings of a pitchers’ duel. Len Stratton, the 1986 Southern Conference Player of the Year, was on the mound for the Mountaineers, while 1986 All-Southern Conference Pitcher Steve Condon took the hill for the Wildcats. Stratton gave up only three hits over the first seven innings, one of them being a solo homer by Dave Turgeon. Condon scattered four hits over the first four innings, with two of them being solo home runs. However, the Mountaineers reached Condon for three runs in the fifth, one in the sixth, and two in the seventh before he gave way to Charlie Winborne, who finished up the game for Davidson. Bill Masse hit his thirteenth round-tripper of the year in the eighth frame for Davidson’s second run of the game. The Wildcats were trailing 8-2 going into the ninth when Dave DePaul hit his twelfth dinger of the year with Brian Moure on base as the Cats’ rally caps proved effective. Rob Zimmerman also took ASU pitching downtown; but the rally died, and Appalachian State won 8-5.

The Keydets of VMI were not kind to Davidson pitching either as the two teams met in the loser’s bracket on Sunday. The Cats used Wilcox, Waitsman, and Winborne, but just couldn’t chalk up a “W” to stay alive in the fight for an NCAA Regional berth. Wilcox held VMI in check through the first four innings, giving up only two runs, but the Keydets scored thirteen runs over the last five innings to seal the victory. Davidson scored all of its runs through the first six innings and were held scoreless the rest of the way. Turgeon and Alan Lewis each went three for five in the effort. The 15-7 final score sent the Cats packing, and all but ruined Davidson’s NCAA hopes.

There is a slim, outside shot for the 1987 edition of Coach Greer’s team getting an at-large bid for the 36-team NCAA tournament. The team’s record now stands at 23-12 with seven games remaining. A record of 30-12 with some impressive wins over the likes of UNC, Wake Forest, Duke, and possibly Georgia, Southern Mississippi, and NC State could improve Davidson’s odds for post-season play. The Wildcats were to have started a three-game series with cross-town rival UNCC last night at Crockett Park in Charlotte before hosting the 49ers this afternoon at 3 pm at Davidson. Tomorrow the two teams will finish up the series at UNCC.

Bill Young captures conference singles title
By WHIT WILKS

The men’s tennis team wrapped up its 1987 season this past weekend at the Southern Conference Tournament held at V.M.I. Finishing with 53 points, Coach Frank’s squad came in third behind champion Furman, 69 points, and UTC, 61 points.

The highlight of the tournament was Bill Young capturing the conference championship at 2 singles. In winning the title, Young played wonderfully, according to Frank. He pulled off impressive head-to-head wins against highly touted players from The Citadel and Furman, and in the process, ran his season record to an astounding 27-6, tops on the team.

Athlete of the Week
This week’s Bryant-Wilks Davidsonian athlete of the week is senior track athlete Greg Foreman. This man set a new school record in the 800 m with a time of 1:55.05.

SPORTS SHORTS
By HAP BRYANT

This past weekend at the Southern Conference Championship, Foreman ran a 51.5...defeated the 2 seed in his flight to reach the final and then went toe to toe with the 1 seed before bowing out. Hodge traveled the same hard road to the finals, as he even managed to survive two match points in the semis. In the final, Hodge was up a set and leading 5-4 when he was struck with crippling body cramps and forced to retire from the competition. Frank noted that Hodge was splendid all weekend and that it was a crime that things had to end as they did. Other Cat players were Jim Thompson at 1, Sebastian Koch at 2, and Carlos Ortega at 4. Thompson finished a strong third, running his season mark to 22-11. Koch, who is only a sophomore, came in fourth, and Ortega finished fifth, which means that he won his last two matches after dropping the opener. On the doubles side, Trip Caldwell and Thompson, 2, and Meyer and Young, 3, both turned in third place showings. The tandem of Koch and Ortega finished fifth at the brutally competitive 1 position. It should be noted that Thompson and Caldwell had a season record of 21-6, and this is particularly noteworthy given the fact that Caldwell suffered a back injury last summer and his status until even the start of January was questionable. Overall, Frank noted that the Cats won “where we should have” but that the team was not able to pull enough upsets as would be required to win the championship, given the strength of the field. He commented that there were really three teams (Furman, UTC, and Davidson) which had generally comparable talent levels. Consequently, the chances of winning the tourney were much slimmer than they would be if there was only one other strong opponent. The outlook for next season is very bright, as only two players, Meyer and Caldwell, graduate. Doubles teams will have to be reshaped, and Frank feels that if this is successfully done, the team will be even stronger. He looks for freshman Tim Hagood to move into the picture, as he performed very well in limited play this year. Additionally, two recruits from Florida and one from Ohio will strengthen the Cats, one even to the point of potentially earning a singles seed. Finally, Frank noted that Furman loses three seeds to graduation so he expects the Paladins to endure a rebuilding year. That leaves only the Moccasins of U.T.C. between the Cats and a coveted Southern Conference title. That certainly would be a nice way to depart from the conference in 1988.

John Lantis runs in 4 x 400m relays at S.C. meet.

From the tacks, he leapt from the floor. In midair, he did a complete 360-degree turn, all the while keeping the ball in one hand, extended from his body. Finally, with apparent ease, he slammed it home. Surely this performance turned some scouts’ heads. Whit’s Answer: A special thanks to Rob Zimmerman and David Lloyd, et al., who explained that the “Home of the Wildcats” sign (and Covington will see). 

Quotes of the Week: “The Braves suck.” Bill Masse, junior right fielder, upon viewing a Braves game on TBS in the Union or upon reading the account of one of the Braves’ 11 losses so far this season. 

For the Record: Turgeon held the all-time single season home run record by himself for a total of 4 1/3 innings before Masse tied him at thirteen. Davidson continued to hit the long ball. Unfortunately, the six homers hit over the weekend yielded only eight runs. Major League scouts have been flocking to Davidson’s games to check out Condon, Fitzgerald, Turgeon, Simonds, DePaul, Lewis, and Masse. Masse has struck out only three times in 132 official at-bats. Next year promises to be a banner year for the Cats if they can increase their goal production.