____ But there’s another matter to consider. Are Davidson students still interested in having their own station to run?

The Davidsonian

Editors:
- Finch, Mark Chen
- Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
- John Barrow, News Editor
- Tom Moore, Features Editor
- Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
- Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
- Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
- Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
- Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
- Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus
- Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

WDAV: A Sad History

The last edition of “Flipsides” was broadcast last week. It’s disappointing. But there was really no way around it. Decisions made almost a decade ago left the current administration with no choice. “Flipsides” just didn’t belong at WDAV.

In 1978, the college administration and the Board of Trustees, in the face of considerable student protest, hired a professional staff to run WDAV and to change the station’s format to include mostly classical music. Student participation in WDAV persisted for a while, involving mostly those who had worked for the station before the format change, but eventually student involvement acquired the character it has today: most of the students who work at WDAV do so because their work-study jobs require them to. There are, of course, a few students who have become active in the operation of the station and who have gained great experience thereby. But WDAV is by no means a “student” station; indeed, its connections with daily life on this campus are tenuous at best.

It was WDAV’s history, then, that dictated the Administration’s decision to cancel “Flipsides.” Nine years have passed since the Board of Trustees decided it needed a professionally-run, classical station to enhance its image in the Charlotte area. It was this Board, not the current administration, which chose to transform WDAV from a lively, nonconformist student station into a sophisticated operation printing slick brochures to attract wealthy sponsors. “Flipsides” had to be cancelled, sooner or later, because it could never be a part of the role WDAV was required to fill. In the midst of all the smooth, professional programming, it presented the wrong image to the station’s audience: it made Davidson seem too much like a college. And for that, it had to go.

Students may be tempted to blame members of the current college administration, but that would be unfair. Their hands are tied by the past. And of course, the professional staff of WDAV is entirely blameless. Its members were hired to do their jobs, and they’ve done them well.

But what of the students? Now that WDAV has eliminated all vestiges of its old rock format, the only possible outlet for student creativity in that direction would be a new student station. Could it be done? Of course. Carrier-current is dirt cheap. Unfortunately, it sounds cheap, too. A more appealing option would be a new 100-watt FM station. It wouldn’t cost much — perhaps $5,000 to $7,000 — while the several hundred disks in the “Flipsides” record library would allow any new station to begin broadcasting as soon as it received FCC approval. And the money is there. WDAV currently receives over $60,000 a year from Davidson College (in addition to all the money it earns elsewhere). It would only take about ten percent of that to put together a student station. And WDAV isn’t poor. The opulence of WDAV’s spacious, carpeted facilities makes the offices of the typical hole-in-the-wall college station look like a rats’ nest. The McMillan building is filled with expensive, spanking-new radio and recording equipment. Surely the college could spare just a few bucks to let the students try broadcasting on their own, once again. After all, with such a small station they could only spoil Davidson’s “image” within a three to five mile radius.

“I’m not really worried,” a female student recently said about the “Flipsides” cancellation. “It doesn’t concern me.” Her mind was closed to the matter. Are any students outside the “Flipsides” staff bothered by the program’s cancellation? If not, then we are currently witnessing the worst of the effects of the 1978 “take-over”: the destruction of students’ creativity and the closing of their minds. That’s inexcusable at an institution which devotes itself to diversity and to open thought. The essence of education lies in opening up opportunities for the student, not in closing them off.

The present Administration may not be responsible for the sad history...of student participation in WDAV. But it must bear the burden of solving today’s problems and injustices. We urge it to make amends and to solve the problems which history has left behind.

John Wightman, Business Manager

Monday, September 21, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

ANOTHER VICTIM OF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT:

In Our Pages... 15 Years Ago

ONLY 57 WOMEN HERE — Coeducation has finally come to Davidson with the introduction of 57 women to the campus, but only 29 of these are degree candidates. The other women come to Davidson through the Eight College Exchange Program, and they will attend Davidson for only one year. The number of women on campus this fall is far less than the 100 coeds called for in the coeducation plan adopted by the Board of Trustees last May, and dissatisfaction has been voiced at this development. SGA President Ralph A. Peeples says that one of the main reasons so few women are at Davidson as transfer students is because of a “no raid” agreement made with the women’s colleges in the Eight College Exchange Program. This agreement made in May with all-female schools Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, Sweet Briar, and Hollins stipulated that Davidson would not accept any transfer students from these colleges.

GRIDDERS WIN — For the first time in several years, Dave Fagg, head coach of the Davidson Wildcats, is a happy man. With a 1-1 season record, and a 1-0 conference standing, the Cats are presently tied for the lead in the conference, a distinction Davidson has not held since 1970.

Except today. Address Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jon Boles, Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffmann, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Bill Scouten, Lee Eichelberger, and the Booze Brothers.

Sports Staff: Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Anthony McCarron, Kathryn Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation.

5 Years Ago

SUMMER THEFTS — $6,627 worth of stored goods were reported stolen from the Davidson campus this summer, and many more stolen goods have gone unreported. “I’ve never seen a summer where we’ve had so much stealing before,” said Housing Office Director Bill Bolding. When Bolding arrived at Belk dorm this summer, contractors who were renovating the building had taken every door off its hinges, and the thefts had begun. Bolding says he “picked up the stuff that was valuable” and stored it in his office, but the stealing continued. Bolding says that the thieves broke into his office three times this summer and have broken in once since school began.

NEW HOUSE — Warner Hall, the new all-women’s eating house, began operations the 14th of September after a six-day construction delay. The building, formerly the Bailey freshman eating house, was moved to its present location between the Fannie & Mable and ETC houses to make room for the Commons. On the 5th of February 1982, College President Samuel Spencer approved the Warner Hall proposal that was submitted to the Council on Campus and Religious Life in November of 1981. The new eating house is named after former Trustee chairman Warner Hall.

The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, College. Phone (704) 692-2088, ext. 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Building.