In Our Pages

Black students go on strike
By RUSSELL BOOKER

Fifteen years ago — October 20, 1987 (LXII, 5)

Black students threatened to leave Davidson at the end of the academic year and to actively discourage black prospective students
from coming to Davidson if a list of demands were not met by November 15. Some of the demands included:
an increase in black student enrollment to “at least one hundred fifty within two years,” a black or African studies
program, and several black faculty members, plus a greater role in Davidson’s social life and more blacks in the college
administration. The deadline followed a meeting with the faculty executive committee. There were a total of ten proposals given to
President Samuel R. Spencer in April of the preceding academic year. Ron Gibson, President of the Black Student Coalition, said
that little had been done since April to implement the plan. Because of this lack of action, the BSC set
a deadline for the meeting of these demands. Some black students are convinced that Davidson will not be able to
recruit prospective black students without their help.

A resolution by the SGA Senate called for the self-scheduling of exams, and SGA Vice-President Bo Phillips claims that this
will cut down on the amount of paperwork during exams for both professors and students. The only change from the
current system would be to have all of the exams at the disposal of all of the students during each
of the eight examination periods, rather than the students scheduling through the Registrar’s Office particular exams they plan to take
on particular days. When queries arose regarding increased confusion of having all of the exams available, Phillips said, “it would
really not be that much more difficult. All we’d have to do would be to double the tables (on which
the exams are set out) and the number of people handling them.”

Five years ago — October 29, 1982 (LXIII, 5)

The faculty approved the amended semester proposal in a 60-33 vote in a meeting on October 19. The revised proposal
includes the thirty-six credit graduation requirement, a standard teaching load of six courses per annum, and six credits for those
participating in the Humanities program. SGA President Tim Johnston claims that the proposal will overburden science majors: “lab courses would
not be on a fair parallel” with other schools, he said, and he proposed an amendment which would make all
science courses numbered higher than 21 worth 1.5 credits. The Biology department admitted that while the change would require a
lot of revision, the rethinking of its program might be very worthwhile. The Chemistry department agreed that much revision would
be needed, but was skeptical of the positive benefits of a semester system. Others have recommended a credit-hours system for
semesters, and the SGA has appointed a committee to study the credit-hours proposal.

Erik Christensen is running as the Libertarian candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives in the 6th congressional district of
North Carolina, which includes Alamance, Guilford, and Davidson counties. Christensen stated that, “I don’t really think I’d win, though I’d
be pleased if I did... I’m not really running to get elected as much as to let people know about
the Libertarian party.” The Libertarian platform advocates “a truly free-market economy, draft abolition, nuclear arms reduction, an immediate forty percent
tax cut and a seventy percent military spending decrease,” according to Christensen.

Lt. Troedson
Navy Representative
October 27
Career Planning and Placement Office

If you’re enrolled in the second year of a college program leading to an associate or baccalaureate degree from an
accredited college/university, you could be earning more than $1,000 a month during your junior and senior years of college for
a total of $24,000 by graduation. You must be at least 18 but not more than 25 years old, be
a US Citizen and have a 3.0 GPA. To see if you qualify for the Baccalaureate Degree Commissioning Program (BDCP).
Call: 1-800-662-7231/7419 or outside of North Carolina 1-800-528-8713. CONTACT: DRESS FOR SUCCESS.

The MacLads
Friday, October 16, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

What's the matter with Davidson after 150 years
By GLENN FOGLE and ASH AHSANNUDIN
The MacLadscould not find anything at all worth mentioning about Davidson’s sesquicentennial homecoming weekend. Question of the week (inspired by
the “Opinions” article “Something is Rotten at Davidson” in this term’s first Davidsonian issue):

What’s the matter with Davidson College after 150 years of existence?

A. The mini skirt is back in vogue save at Davidson where the Rubens look is still in. Note: some
feminists argue that mini skirts have been reintroduced to the fashion world by male chauvinists [some would even include Captain
Pike Dog] as a sexist tool to keep women in their place as sex objects. We agree.

Confidential Health

B. Bob the Carrot.

C. The hard-charging Airborne Ranger ROTC Cadet Corps have recently ordered a complete set of camouflaged skirts and blouses for
their new commander.

D. Wompus the campus dog has disappeared.

E. We elected a bovine (moo-cow for you lay-people) as Homecoming Queen.

F. The football team, sensing that they might actually win the Homecoming game and cause widespread panic and heart failure
among fellow students and alumni, came out in the third quarter and lost in true Davidson spirit.

G. The Davidson spirit.

H. Absolutely nothing.

If you know the answer to this one, think about it for the rest of your college career.

Eating disorders can be controlled

Dear Confidential Health,

I haven’t been able to admit this to anyone. I have a real problem with food and I feel out
of control lately. I’m constantly preoccupied by food and by my weight. I may be “bulimic,” but I hate that
word. Is there any help for someone like me? I keep promising myself I’m never going to do this again,
but it never works.

Sincerely,
A Davidson Sophomore

Dear Sophomore,

Confidential Health is pleased that you wrote in with this problem. Some studies have estimated that anywhere from ten to
twenty percent of college women have a similar problem. The counseling center here on campus provides individual counseling sessions which
are confidential and free to Davidson students. Virginia Sykes and Campbell Peery are two counselors who have experience in your
area of concern. There is also a support group which meets every Monday night from 6:30 to 7:30 in 301
Chambers. This is run by Georgia Ringle, a health educator on campus.

The problem of binging is usually more common in females, teenagers, and older people who are achievement-oriented, highly motivated and
who tend to come from middle- and upper-income backgrounds. Most women start this behavior in an attempt to lose weight.
They think they would look better if they lost 2-3 or 5-6 pounds but generally they are already within a
normal weight range. Binging and purging in the long run usually leads to a weight gain.

Eating lots of food when you are not necessarily hungry can be a symptom that something is not right in
your life. Emotional states of depression or loneliness tend to trigger eating, not always related to hunger. Binging becomes an
anxiety-reducer, a tranquilizer. This is why people need to seek outside help. It is more than just a problem with
food.

A great deal of our culture has taught women that to be successful she must be gorgeous, skinny, have a
great husband, many male admirers, wonderful children, and be Chairman of the Board. This is an immense, unrealistic pressure. Blindly
striving to become this “ideal” woman can lead to unhealthy habits, and binging is one of them.

People who binge or starve themselves need help in recovering not only their normal eating habits but in gaining a
better perspective on their self-image, confidence and self-esteem. In addition, there can be serious physical effects if this behavior goes
on for a prolonged period of time. A combination of individual counseling, nutritional information, and a support group may all
prove helpful.

As you can tell, this is a difficult problem to handle by yourself. The most important and sometimes hardest thing
to do is to tell someone. Your success in treatment will depend on your own personal motivation. There is help
on campus, and the sooner treatment is sought, the better you will feel.

Please send your questions to:
Confidential Health
College Infirmary
Davidson College
