By JENNIFER HOFFMAN

Davidson — an ‘unlikely ‘bluegrass mecca,’ as the Charlotte Observer termed it, and so it was last Saturday when the
nation’s top progressive bluegrass band, the Seldom Scene, performed for the Sesquicentennial Alumni Weekend celebration. The cold weather, which forced
the performance to take place in Love Auditorium rather than outside, served as a sharp contrast to the warm sounds
of bluegrass. John Starling, Davidson class of ’62, led the group during their reunion tour which sold out the Kennedy
Center in Washington, D.C. last November.

Mix-ups at the airport caused the band to start slightly later than scheduled. It didn’t take long, however, for the
Seldom Scene to get into full swing, and their focus turned to railroads rather than airports. As Starling put it,
“I’ve always had an affinity for train songs. Trains are about being free — about being able to pick up
and go where you want to go when you want to go.” The band played a variety of music, but
concentrated on the folk-oriented progressive bluegrass sound that won them fame. Their sense of humor was evident throughout the performance,
especially during the second half when band members pulled up their collars and donned large sunglasses for a comic rendition
of “Lay Down Sally.”

Opening for the Seldom Scene was senior Bobby Houck, as well as a student bluegrass band composed of Molly Cochran,
Valerie Graves, Darek Newby, and Jay Wilkins. Bobby Houck first became interested in music as a senior in high school.
Since then, he has been very active performing for campus events, especially for Friday Afternoon Clubs with a band whose
members include Frank Whitaker, Andy Ball, Greg Keith, and George Guise. This summer, Bobby will pursue his musical career by
playing in bars and clubs along the South Carolina coast. His style of music varies from folk, to bluegrass, to
rock. “It was a dream come true,” said Bobby about the opportunity to open for the Seldom Scene. “I’d heard
them play before a few years ago in Washington, and I have a lot of their albums.”

For Molly Cochran, opening for her favorite bluegrass band was “one of the highlights of her Davidson experience.” A banjo
player herself, Molly especially enjoyed hearing her role model, Ben Eldridge, perform. Molly has been playing the banjo for seven
years now. Valerie Graves didn’t become interested in bluegrass until she ——————Continued to page 6

Cast and director shine in Brighton Beach Memoirs

By MICHELE MILLER

Start with a fairly funny script by Neil Simon, add a cohesive ensemble of actors, employ director Connie Welsh to
mix it all up well, put it in the oven of Rupert Barber and Joe Gardner’s Theatre 21 class and
you come up with a production that isn’t half-baked. The audience chuckled and cackled, worried and waffled with the cast
of Brighton Beach Memoirs, thoroughly enjoying themselves in the meantime. Neil Simon holds the audience in the palm of his
hand with truly funny situations and comments made off-hand. The actors worked well together to get the built-in laughs and
create some of their own with facial expression and competent comic timing.

Although the script did not raise many provocative issues or push the audience with satire, the actors provided us with
an enjoyable evening of fun. This Neil Simon script leaves nothing to the imagination, tying up the plot with a
sweet ending, pulling heartstrings with reference to Hitler’s Germany and the plight of the Jews. Simon refuses to end on
a note less than light-hearted. He doesn’t challenge the audience to reach beyond the play’s experience, except in a few
references to the political situation in the 1930s. We are left with a cotton candy-like feeling, pretty to look at,
nice on the tongue, but lacking in substance, empty of real thought-provoking meaning.

From the moment Noel Brewster opened her mouth, we were pulled into the Jewish mother

English majors give answers for careers

By NELLE McCORKLE

[Editor’s note: This is the second part of an article run in the April 15 issue of the Davidsonian. The
article dealt with Davidson graduates who had majored in English. They responded to the Davidsonian with their thoughts on the
career hurdles for English majors.]

Two graduates emphasized persistence in job seeking; the Vanderbilt law student wrote of his first position as an Atlanta Constitution
news reporter, “Getting the job required considerable patience: I bugged the guy about an internship beginning when I was a
sophomore and landed the job two years later!” The second-year law student who previously worked as a Boston paralegal wrote,
“I got an interview (through a personal contact) and harassed them until they hired me. Knock on doors and tell
the person hiring that you want a job. (First, find outfrom someone who knows who the person who hires really
is),” the Vanderbilt law student advised. Specific course advice included computer literacy from the seventh-grade teacher and accounting from a
Montana ranch hand. The latter respondent also recommended journalism and small business courses outside of Davidson. He wrote, “I should
have gotten a teaching certificate in order to work during lean years in Montana for the cattle industry. I also
feel that Davidson students may not be too savvy when it comes to starting a business with little capital.”

Kate brilliantly pulled off a difficultly played accent and created empathy for the matronly Kate. Cameron Dougan played his tired,
loving husband character off of Noel’s dominating Kate character convincingly. He counseled the teenagers with obvious wisdom and worldliness. Dougan
made his twenty-year-old body appear almost sixty, making the jump from individual to character seem easy. Brian Kosanovich handled Simon’s
prosaic speeches with ease, providing the variety necessary to make them interesting. His open-eyed naivete reminded the post-adolescent audience of
earlier days. We all understood the frustration of growing up through Eugene’s eyes. He handled the tricky lines about women
with a great combination of embarrassment and fascination, teasing the audience with a grin.

Katherine Norton put in a good evening’s work on a difficult part. Blanche is up and down in this play.
We must watch her grow up in her own way. Norton grew with Blanche, helping the audience see the change.
Grant Morain as Stanley was really funny, guiding his younger brother through the perils of adolescence. He had the audience
on his side, especially those of us who face the ominous “real world” in May. Marisa Gaba bopped on and
off stage. Her Nora was hardly practical, ever melodramatic, wholly selfish, nicely believable. Alyssa Kendall as Laurie whined throughout. It
was hard to like her at all (just wait until she grows up). I imagine the actress will be pleased
to know that I found her character childish and manipulative.

The set artfully created a crowded atmosphere. Cutting off bed lengths so that they were visually uncomfortable, and placing the
rooms too close for comfort, the construction crew translated that aspect of Simon’s script to a tee. The backdrop, however,
did not seem to flow convincingly into the foreground. It almost seemed as though it didn’t belong. My congratulations to
the ensemble for creating a fun evening for the audience. The script was not brilliant, but they shined. The themes
were not monumental, but the audience was entertained. The cast of Brighton Beach Memoirs made us laugh, and laugh we
did.

Currently a self-employed horsebreaker and horseshoer in addition to working as a ranch hand, this graduate first worked as a
summer horsebreaker and a fall hunting and fishing guide. Within twenty years he plans to become a ranch owner and
writer during winter seasons. “Take accounting, learn library skills, and be nice to rich relatives. They can be a big
help later.” Most graduates plan to continue in their present fields for twenty years, but the Atlanta lawyer noted otherwise.
She wrote, “I would like to have a job with a museum (maybe not legally related at all) possibly meeting
exhibits.” Every respondent indicated satisfaction at his or her choice of an English major. The Boston paralegal wrote, “I’m educated
and I can read and write well. These skills have always been useful in my jobs, and will be in
my career. I loved being an English major.” The Duke Ph.D. candidate in English wrote, “Even though I chose English
as a career, I still consider it a viable major if one is interested in other pursuits as well. I
frequently talk to my students here at Duke who are struggling over their decision of a major. Many feel they
should choose more ‘practical’ majors. I tell them the English major is a practical one. The skills learned in English
can be applied to nearly any field. Select what you enjoy to do well at, and you’ll come out okay.”

According to the Atlanta lawyer, “The vast amount of reading and writing has helped me in my present job. Also,
English was an area of great interest to me and one not especially accessible after college.” For students considering an
English major, the Boston paralegal writes, “I know it’s unnerving to graduate with a degree in English and no idea
what to do. I, for one, was terrified and wished that I had taken a computer course after all. But
you will find that you learn very quickly on the job, and after a little while you will even gain
some self-confidence in your abilities. I would say don’t be afraid to take some chances; it’s a good time to
do it. And when you test yourself, you'll see that you can do it after all.”
