Features

“I wouldn’t have traded it for the world”

Pre-Orientation sends freshmen into the wild

By LUCIA KENDALL

“I loved it! It was awesome!” Karminder Gill aptly summed up the feelings of other freshmen about Pre-Orientation. Thirty-six freshmen and thirteen trip leaders (including both upperclassmen and faculty) spent a week backpacking on the Appalachian Trail and whitewater canoeing the Chattooga and French Broad rivers before freshman orientation began.

“I really enjoyed getting to meet people in a setting away from campus,” said Chris Cooper. “It was a relaxed way to get to know them. Having all those friends before school started made the transition to college life a lot easier.” Holme Oltrogge, a sophomore, agreed. “You learn about people from a different angle when you’re in an environment other than the classroom. It’s nice to just talk to people and not have to think about school.”

For most of the activities, the large group of forty-nine was divided into four smaller groups who got different colored t-shirts. Although there was a wide variety of personalities in each of the groups, as Chonita Riddick put it, “the groups were just meant to be together. Especially the yellow and fuchsia groups, they were just incredibly put together.” The cohesiveness of the groups is illustrated by the fact that the relationships that were established are still growing closer. Tina Laidlaw and Kelly Crews have developed an especially close bond, and Charles White and Frances Redmond, who first met and got to know each other during “Pre-O,” are now dating. But as Holme said, “people didn’t spend all their time with one or two others, we all mixed together and everyone got along with the whole bunch.”

Roughing it was a bit more than some freshmen expected. Karminder said, “I thought there were going to be comfortable log cabins, and showers, and steak for dinner. I brought oxford shirts and nice sweaters. I ruined my white tennis outfit; my mom washed it three times and it’s still dirty. The trip was worth it, though.” Several people challenged themselves and found out how much they could do. Charles used Frances as an example: “Would you expect to see this girl out in the woods with a forty-pound pack on her back? She looks like she belongs maybe in a mall or something.” But Frances loved it. “I’d tell freshmen next year that they should definitely go on it,” she said.

Everyone had different experiences to tell about, from combat boots three sizes too big to the songs Ed Daugherty and Stan Hynds (college staff) sang that everyone else was too young to have ever heard. Holme mentioned Phil Prescott’s sports trivia. Lindsey Forsythe talked about the girls shaving their legs in the Chattooga and the flips off the rope swing. “The red group spent hours just playing games they thought they had forgotten,” said Leigh Hall, a sophomore. “It was like free time on the playground where you come up with your own entertainment instead of just watching TV.”

The trip showed that even the seemingly sedate members of our group have a wild side to them that surprised us (and them) as they dove ruthlessly for silverware. Tania Tambiah was violent enough to break a spoon. Finding out that males supposedly think about sex every seven seconds provided the yellow and fuchsia groups with running jokes throughout the trip. Chonita thought that the funniest thing on the trip was “in a word, canoeing with Lucia.” In Charles’ group, the yellows, it was “Watching Ward [Bradley] catch the porch on fire. Everybody was stomping on the porch to put it out... it wasn’t really Ward’s fault, though.” Lindsey talked about Tina’s game suggestions. “I couldn’t believe she really wanted the whole white group to play hokey-pokey and leap-frog. Of course, we never actually did.” Tania remembered jokes about the honeypot, which was a pickle canister we had to use as a toilet. Almost everyone enjoyed dumping the other canoeists into the river. Lindsey recalled an interesting drink for her group: “We boiled water and added the hot chocolate mix. When we stirred it, the powder stuck to the spoon, and it kept getting harder and harder. We found out later that it was pudding mix.” Chonita was entertained by the red group chanting like druids as they built a fire. Karminder mentioned mystery scenarios that Missy White, a senior, gave their group to solve on the trail: “It kept our minds off our feet.”McDonald enjoyed throwing the frisbees around in the evenings and the talks around the fire. The rapids challenged Holme: “You analyze them and plan your route and what strokes you’re going to use, and then you shoot through it. Making it through at the end was really great.” A lot of learning took place, too. Dr. Grant, a biology professor, pointed out a camouflaged moth and told his group a little bit about the spiders they found in holes of a rock. Karminder learned to play hacky sack, how to put up tarps, and how to tie three new knots. Frances tried whitewater canoeing for the first time. Lindsey had the new experience of cleaning greasy pans with sand. “It was a real growing experience,” said Chonita. “You learn about yourself out there in the woods. You get a chance to be closer to God; there are none of the ordinary distractions. I appreciated life more, you know, nature and all, being close to it. You also appreciate material things like showers. And you can look at what people are really like; nobody cared about the external stuff like how you looked or what you wore. You just really got to know people. The trip was hard sometimes, but I wouldn’t trade that experience for the world.”

Ghostbusters? Why Bother?

Which places this reviewer in a very small minority. I saw Ghostbusters the summer it was released. Everyone told me about how hilarious the movie was and to look out for the performance of Bill Murray. Murray, they told me, was the best part of a very funny movie. Following their advice, I plunked down my four dollars for a ticket, sat down in the dark, and waited to ache with laughter. I waited, waited, and waited. I was still wondering what all the fuss was about when the movie ended. Two of my friends thought the movie was hilarious. Whenever I mentioned that Ghostbusters was going to be shown at Davidson, people immediately said that they would have to see it. By all the standards of democracy and consensus, Ghostbusters is one of the best comedies of all time. To me, Ghostbusters simply rambled from skit to skit, grabbing comedy ideas like a desperate improvisational act, and then wasting what good ideas it had. My opinion did not change after I had reviewed the film once again for this article. A second viewing only showed even more wasted opportunities for a really good comedy.

Murray is at the heart of the movie’s problem. Almost all of the film is subordinated to letting Murray get all the best lines, the best skits, and the best girls. What happens is that Ghostbusters becomes a one-man show, with all the rest of the cast doing nothing more than playing straight men and women to Bill the Clown. Putting Murray in the center of the movie wouldn’t be such a bad idea if he were very funny. The problem is that he isn’t. Murray always plays one type of character — the obnoxious brat who thumbs his nose at authority. This style worked very well in Stripes, when he was ragging the Army, and in Meatballs, when he was twisting all the boring rules of summer camps. In Ghostbusters, Murray has got the show completely to himself. There is no authority to battle, except perhaps for the idiot EPA inspector (perhaps that’s why the Republicans used this movie). This bastion of authority enters the action about halfway through the picture but is soon put back into place by Bill the Magnificent. So what you’ve got, then, is a movie in which Bill is the life of the party. The plot shambles along, picking up ideas like burrs. When things get dull, the makers of Ghostbusters throw in something else and hope. Their desperate efforts to find something funny leave the movie tasting like a stew made of leftovers. The plot alternates between Murray chasing the girl, the Busters going after a ghost, Murray trapping Weaver into a date, and the Busters getting another ghost, and then winds up with a general apocalypse. This is supposed to be humorous. The result is often this sort of scene (but be careful not to laugh too hard):

Ramis: Don’t cross the currents.
Murray: What happens if we cross the currents?
Ramis: I’m not sure, but life as we know it throughout the universe...
Murray: O.K. Be careful.
Chen: Yeah, wow, zowie, yeehaw, yip, yip, yip.

They repeat this joke a couple of times so the audience can get it. These comments will probably not change anybody’s mind. The people who liked Ghostbusters the first time will want to see it again. The people who have never seen it can ignore this carping and go along with the majority. Ghostbusters will be shown in the 900 Room on Wednesday at 9:45 p.m. and on Friday at 8 p.m.