Wednesday, April 15, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just Words
By Tim E. Brown

Consider Congress a kitchen sink. Congressmen gather around this kitchen sink to drop government expenditures down its drainpipe. As the government expenditures swirl down the drainpipe, they enter a seemingly endless network of tributary pipes, each of which leads to a specific governmental program.

Currently, the drainpipe of this nation’s kitchen sink that ought to swirl down the tributary pipes of social programs, such as education, environmental protection, public housing, and agriculture, swirls down the tributary pipe of the defense program instead. This problem requires the skills of political plumbers, men and women who have dedicated their waking hours to, among other political-social matters, figuring out how to unclog the drainpipe of this nation’s kitchen sink. Political plumbers — armed with bottles of Liquid Drano, plungers, and innovative ideas — are in short supply.

However, one may be found in Phoenix, Arizona. His name is Eugene G. Flagell. And if folks in Arizona have any wits about them, they’ll gather together to buy him a congressional seat in 1988. If Arizonians bought Flagell a congressional seat, he would brandish his bottle of Liquid Drano and his plunger to decrease military expenditures drastically and to pipe the excess to social programs. Also, he would share his innovative ideas with other congressmen in order that, together, they might raise additional revenue to spend on social programs.

Flagell would be the first to admit that he is more a plumber than a politician. He supports himself and his family by fixing and welding pipes for immodest sums of money. He does not look or sound much like a modern American politician; he sports a caterpillar mustache, inelegant eyeglasses, and a very thin rug atop his pate. Mothers surely would not queue to have Flagell kiss their babies.

Politics is the Baskin Robbins of flavorful rhetoricians. Flagell, whose speech is as flavorful as water, would never be voted flavor of the week by voters who scream regularly for the likes of Mario Cuomo and Jesse Jackson. If the listener is allergic to innovative ideas, listening to Flagell speak is as exciting as a completed sneeze.

Graphic magazines and TV networks that profit from the use of some government services. Lobbyists could be charged a gargantuan fee for using Congress. Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious! That innovative idea is pleasingly atrocious. Politicians who appear with the president in TV commercials could be charged a fee. This way, some presidents could earn their keep. And the media could be charged for using stories about the federal government.The media, says Flagell, are businesses that receive all of their raw resources — summits, drug busts, political speeches, politicians’ bloopers, military raids, amendments, political scandals — for free. Provocatively, Flagell suggests that the federal government could charge certain people for the use of certain constitutional rights in certain circumstances. He states: “Nazis, white supremacists, and other weird characters can be charged a fee for using the right of free speech.” Add to this list of social blemishes pornography.

Flagell has many innovative ideas as to how the government could raise revenue to spend on social programs. Flagell advertises his idea that the federal government has an enormous amount of potential advertising space, a resource on which it should capitalize. Companies, he explains, would pay handsome sums to have their logos appear on 22-cent stamps. The images of Washington, Lincoln, and Grant could be replaced by images of “Iacocca selling cars, Redenbacher selling popcorn, and Palmer driving for Hertz.” The federal government’s cars and trucks, which travel down city streets at the blazing speed of 35 mph, could be painted with companies’ patches and emblems like race cars. The blank top margin of the 1040 form could be filled with advertisements for tax preparers, attorneys, and tax-free mutual funds. Flagell imagines millions of taxpayers with taxed temperaments flipping to the page of the 1040 form that contains an ad for H&R Block.

The federal government could charge individuals for “I GOT A POSTCARD FROM MIAMI,” “I GOT A POSTCARD FROM TEXAS,” “I GOT A POSTCARD FROM HELL!” “Greetings From Hell,” Series 1, the best of the Life in Hell comic strips from the last five years now in postcard and notecard form.
- Postcards — 16 designs for $40
- Notecards envelopes included (like a greeting card but you write the message inside)
- L. Barry / M. Groening ‘87 Calendar now $4 (includes P & H)! Collector's item! Send check or money order to:

Offices of the Senate and House of Representatives could be sold at a public auction to the highest bidders, which possibility some fear materialized many elections, many auctions, ago. Flagell says, “The democratic process wastes a great deal of money. Elections have become competitions in spending.” Millions of dollars received by political parties, political-action committees, TV and radio networks, production companies, and public-relations agencies could be snatched by the federal government.

Whether Flagell will ever be able, financially, to divert his attention from Arizonians’ kitchen sinks to this nation’s kitchen sink is uncertain. Maybe, Arizonians will realize that this nation’s sink is most in need of repair and will go digging for money so that their state’s political plumber might be flushed with victory at the public auction in 1988.

Life In Hell
Attn: Order Dept.
P.O. Box 3664
L.A., CA 90036