Friday, November 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

---

“Do you think Davidson’s football program should continue to compete in Division I athletics?”

Alan Hunter, class of ‘90

“Football in Division I? I don’t think it would be a good idea. Being as academically inclined as we are—our
football program that is—I don’t think that we can physically compete with the bigger, less intellectual types from bigger schools.
I don’t think we should [be in Division I] football but basketball-wise? Yes, because I’m what? A basketball player.”

Mary Erwin, class of ‘88

“I don’t know much about football, but if it is going to hurt the other sports then I don’t think
we should change divisions.”

Charlie Winborne, class of ‘88

“That’s a touchy subject there. I think if Davidson is going to compete in Division I we’re going to have
to give scholarships to compete... I think the program is getting better with bigger recruiting classes but the problem is
getting the athletes in [because of academic standards].”

By John Barrow, photos by Robert Nesbit

Michael Roach, class of ‘90

“We’ve got good talent now, and we seem to be picking up a little in the last couple of years.
Even so we have got to get moving or else we should move down to Division III... if that wouldn’t
mess up basketball.”

Beyond Davidson

Superpower summit talks set, Weinberger to resign

By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining the news October 22-November 5:

Around the World -- Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze traveled to Washington last week to discuss a superpower summit meeting. Plans
for a summit meeting in Washington were made for December 7. President Reagan and Soviet leader Gorbachev are expected to
sign a treaty eliminating medium-range nuclear missiles at that time. Gorbachev surprised U.S. Secretary of State Shultz in Moscow two
weeks ago, and raised doubts about the chances for a summit meeting, by announcing that restrictions on the U.S. space
weapons system be part of the treaty. Gorbachev seemed to have softened his demands in the past week.

President Reagan announced a U.S. trade embargo on Iran last Monday, in response to Persian Gulf hostilities. Iranian President Ali
Khamenei threatened closure of the Strait of Hormuz if the ban is implemented. On Wednesday, November 4, Iran reported public
demonstrations, with masses of people chanting anti-American slogans. Wednesday was the eighth anniversary of the capture of the American Embassy
and the taking of American hostages.

In a related issue, the U.S. accused China of selling military weapons to Iran, a charge China has denied.

In the Philippines, two Americans were killed near the U.S. Clark Air Base. A communist group claimed responsibility and threatened
further American assassinations. The U.S. has restricted the movements of American personnel in the Philippines, and warned American travelers of
danger.

South Koreans overwhelmingly approved a new constitution last Tuesday. The new constitution decreases presidential power while increasing legislative and judicial
power. The approval of the new constitution follows a summer of protest and riots aimed towards the government. South Korean
President Chun Doo Hwan’s term will end February 25. The new constitution establishes a system for direct presidential elections.

Japan’s next prime minister will be Noboru Takeshita, a consensus-building politician. Takeshita, who was handpicked by current Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone, will face tough problems such as the U.S./Japan trade imbalance.

Across the Nation -- White House and congressional negotiators met last Tuesday to discuss ways in which to trim the
U.S. budget deficit. The recent stock market crash added a sense of urgency to the meeting.

The Senate voted 86-11 in favor of a health insurance bill that would increase Medicare benefits. The increased costs would
be funded by raising premiums.

In another vote the Senate approved, 93-0, appropriations of $8.5 billion for military construction projects. The House approved similar appropriations
in July.

News reports indicate that the Reagan Administration may be reconsidering making a November request to Congress for $270 million in
Nicaraguan contra aid. The request may be postponed until January, to avoid disrupting the regional peace plan which was signed
by Central American leaders in August. Reagan Administration officials fear that an early vote on contra funding would provide the
ruling Sandinista Government of Nicaragua with an excuse not to honor regional peace plan commitments.

The nomination of Robert Bork for Supreme Court justice was defeated by a 58-42 Senate vote. Federal appeals Judge Anthony
Kennedy of Sacramento has been mentioned as a non-controversial possibility for the next nominee.

President Reagan nominated Ann Dore McLaughlin on Tuesday to replace William Brock as Secretary of Labor. McLaughlin served as an
interior undersecretary and has had extensive public policy experience.

Reagan is expected to lose yet another Cabinet official this week. Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger is expected to announce
his resignation. Weinberger will leave politics to care for his wife, who has cancer. National Security Adviser Frank Carlucci will
be Weinberger’s likely replacement. Lt. Gen. Colin Powell is predicted to replace Carlucci as national security adviser.

In Economic News -- The Dow Jones industrial average continues to experience instability. Stock market crashes worldwide have raised questions
of difficult economic times ahead.

In the U.S., tension resulting from the plummeting stock market led to the shooting of two stockbrokers. Arthur Kane of
Miami shot the brokers and then committed suicide after suffering heavy financial losses.

12 in. with 3 toppings - $6.50 16 in. with 3 toppings - $7.75

(not including extra cheese)

Mon. - Sat, 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. Sun. 4:30 - 11:00 p.m. Delivering to Davidson College Free
