The Davidsonian ~ Friday, April 3, 1987

Senator Sanford sees hope for peace in Central America

Terry Sanford

[Ed. note: This speech was given on Feb. 26, 1987, in the U.S. Senate. It has been slightly edited.]

There is fresh hope for solving the problems in Central America. The four democracies, under the leadership of President Arias
of Costa Rica, are examining a new initiative intended to stop the fighting and to ensure democracy and security in
the region. The presidents of these four countries met in San Jose on February 16 and will assemble again shortly
in Guatemala, with the Nicaraguan president, to deliberate the details of this initiative. This effort deserves the support and encouragement
of the United States.

Central America holds stories of triumph and stories of tragedy. The triumph is of the human spirit, finally insistent on
liberty, now manifest in four Central American democracies. The great tragedy is in the human condition, with poverty and ignorance
and dangers to health, people ill-housed and ill-nourished, and limited economic opportunity and education.

Honduras, with 4.7 million people, is the poorest Central American nation. Families try to get by on less than $60
a month after inflation has nearly doubled prices over the last ten years. Half the able-bodied people are unemployed or
underemployed. There’s one doctor for every 3,000 people. Of every thousand children born, over seventy die before their first birthday.
Fewer than half the people even have access to safe drinking water.

Honduras is saddled with enormous foreign debt. Its external debt equals nearly two-thirds of its total gross national product. Their
$860 million in exports are wiped out by their need to import $1.3 billion in goods. Their democracy is still
fragile, but for the first time, they have had two successive democratic presidential elections, and a third appears assured.

In El Salvador, with 5.1 million people, economic conditions are no better, with the infrastructure ravaged by earthquakes and guerrillas,
and thousands of people dislocated by the war. In Guatemala, with 8.3 million people, conditions are only slightly better. These
are the three newer democracies, where poverty makes opportunity and the good life a distant dream. These are the three
countries where democracy and freedom are jeopardized by the misery of the struggling peasant and the urban dweller crowded in
rickety shacks. It is a land of little opportunity and mounting problems — all an invitation to uprising — and
the strong man promising new things but bringing old oppression. It is a climate ripe for the false song of
communism, and countering that threat and that poverty is our basic challenge if we care about our neighbor.

It will be remembered that the United States had occupied Nicaragua with Marines from 1909 until 1933, and that from
1936 the dictatorship of the Somoza family and the National Guard ruled with increasing brutality and corruption until 1979. By
the end, the unbridled murder, torture, and robbery by the Somozas, and their assassination of the editor of the leading
newspaper, La Prensa, mobilized a broad opposition. The business community, the Church, professional groups, and a dozen political parties rose
up in opposition, adding their strength to the Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN), which had been waging guerrilla war against
the Somoza government for nearly two decades. Anastasio Somoza and his gang fled.

These new revolutionary forces were generally resentful of the United States because of the occupation, and many Nicaraguans felt the
Somoza family was tolerated or supported by the United States. It was in this climate of revolution and resentment that
the Government of National Reconstruction came to power, with all political parties and others represented by a thirty-three-member National Council,
and a junta of five, of which three were Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN) members. They adopted a grand purpose,
designated “The Declaration of San Jose,” promising free and regular elections, economic and agrarian reform, pluralism and democracy, human rights
and justice. But it was not to be.

Brian Bosworth has a blonde punk haircut, a sparkling earring, and a body as big and as dent-resistant as a
Chevy pickup, which body he used and abused as an All-American linebacker for Oklahoma. Recently Bosworth was caught abusing his
body by using steroids to help heal his injuries. Subsequently, he was barred from the Orange Bowl by the N.C.A.A.
(Bosworth now refers passionately to the N.C.A.A. as the “National Communist Association of America.”) Bosworth’s use of steroids has devalued
his recent performances on the gridiron in the eyes of many sports fans who cherish the natural capacities of athletes,
and has encouraged many Americans to focus their short attention spans on the abuse of steroids in high schools.

Steroids enhance muscle mass and allow athletes to perform abnormally well. Steroids also can kill, if they just don’t reduce
sexual drive, rupture the liver, increase blood pressure, cause depression and hypertension, cause premature baldness, cause plaque (the kind of
plaque against which Crest gel is useless) to build up inside the heart, and do other sundry damages. Some people
say: “Hey, it’s the athlete’s body. He can mess it up if he pleases.” But sports fans who enjoy watching
and sharing in an athlete’s natural capacities, claim that when an athlete uses steroids he messes up his performance.

Athletes who perform without using steroids provide inspirational and memorable examples of the capacities of the human spirit, human will,
and human body. When an athlete uses steroids, he transforms his performance from an example of human capacities into a
display of the capacities of what’s inside the medicine cabinet. An admiring fan does not know whether to ask the
athlete on steroidsFor his autograph or for the phone number of his pharmacist. As an athlete tries to improve his
performance by using steroids, he devalues his performance not only for the spectators but also for himself. When an athlete
uses steroids, he feels less involved in his performance. He might be nagged with thoughts like: “Do my achievements and
sports trophies belong to me, or do they belong to my medicine cabinet? Should I invite my pharmacist to the
award banquet held in my honor?”

In the 1940s a survey listed the top seven problems in public schools: talking, chewing gum, making noise, running in
the halls, getting out of turn in line, wearing improper clothes, not tossing wastepaper into wastebaskets. A 1980s survey lists
these top seven: drug abuse, alcohol abuse, pregnancy, suicide, rape, robbery, assault. The late 1980s will add to the 1980s’
list another problem: steroids.

South Plantation High School in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., made the news after some of its students started growing out, or
bulking out, of their Levis and T-shirts at an abnormal and alarming rate. Fort Lauderdale’s school administrators observe that the
abuse of steroids is an “unbelievable horror story in public schools” and that the abuse is growing faster than kudzu.
Moreover, these administrators warn that the abuse of steroids in public schools is not a problem limited to the state
that is soon to have Don Johnson and a gleaming white Ferrari on its state seal.

A 17-year-old boy from Plantation, Fla., injects into his arm 100 milligrams of Equipoise, a steroid that builds muscles in
show horses. Pound for pound, he injects in himself 10 times the recommended allowance for a horse. Another teenager from
South Plantation High School uses and pushes steroids. In little over a year, he has grown from 128 pounds to
206 pounds; his parents have been scurrying about in clothing stores.

Teenagers (I do not use this noun derogatorily) who use steroids say in a voice three octaves too low and
three decibels too high that they use steroids because the steroids improve their physical attractiveness and their social confidence. From
hearing these teenagers speak, one would think that they’re living on the Planet of the Apes. These teenagers argue authoritatively
that thinness is ugly, that thinness indicates weakness and lack of self-confidence. They say that when a person is thin
— excuse me; I mean when a person is weak and is as invertebrate as a jellyfish — he receives
no respect from his peers and finds himself socially alienated. Implicitly, these teenagers are saying that a person exhibits his
whole character and earns respect from the neck down. And steroids can cause mood changes in teenagers, enabling them to
be unhealthily confident and recklessly arrogant.

Here are three convictions from three high school students — a militant, an egotist, and a lover — who attend
South Plantation High School and use steroids:
“My attitude is I’m ready to conquer and kill, and ain't nothin’ or nobody gettin’ in my way.”
“I say humble-like that I am the biggest, baddest person in this school.”
“I feel like Don Juan.”

Purchasing steroids is as difficult a task as purchasing citrus in January. Students sell steroids out of the trunks of
their cars. Students can get them from careless or corrupt pharmacists. (Different types of steroids can be used to treat
arthritis, malnutrition, anemia, the negative effects of chemotherapy, and other health problems.) And students can purchase them in “black market”
drug stores, often located near body-building gyms.

Mr. Bosworth, Americans thank you for drawing their attention to the abuse of steroids. Sports fans who enjoy watching an
athlete’s natural capacities look forward to seeing you — with or without your golden locks — off steroids and in
the pro ranks.

The fox was in the henhouse. The Sandinistas dominated the new government because they were the political party that was
also a military organization. By 1982 the FSLN had almost completely taken over the new government, a state of emergency
had been declared, and a one-party government established. It was this consolidation of political power and suppression of personal freedoms
that began the series of events that have developed into the warlike situation we see today. Independent groups and organizations,
the other political parties, the Catholic Church, and labor unions were suppressed, limited, or relegated to the sidelines. La Prensa
was banned. In 1984 an election was held, and Daniel Ortega, one of the nine “Commandantes,” those who had led
the Sandinista military and who controlled the FSLN, was elected president for six years. Most of the independent parties, claiming
FSLN election manipulation, boycotted the election, but the Sandinistas claimed a mandate and became further entrenched.

The other four Central American countries felt threatened by this progression of events. The United States began supporting opposition groups
within Nicaragua, including the Contras, a group consisting largely of the Nicaragua Democratic Front (FDN) guerrilla army. The Sandinista government
today depends on the Soviet Union for food, oil, equipment, and military materials, and on Soviet technicians and Cuban military
instructors and advisors. A virtual state of war exists, although the United States and Nicaragua maintain diplomatic relations and ambassadors.

To the south of Nicaragua is Costa Rica, a relatively prosperous country with a long tradition of democracy and pluralism.
Costa Rica has had no army since 1949 and has a friendly relationship with the United States. The democratic foundation
of Costa Rica is sound, but it is jeopardized by an influx of Nicaraguan refugees and the hovering threat of
a powerful Nicaraguan army. Costa Rica and the three fledgling democracies all have supported the United States opposition to the
Sandinista government. Continued to page 12.
