Friday, February 6, 1987
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Nohow and Contrariwise—
Interpreting dreams the easy way
By STEVE E. MANK

Psychologists tell us that no one can perfectly interpret dreams, but they’re wrong. Not only is it easy to figure out what a dream means, it’s fun.

Let us take, for example, the one above, shall we? Obviously, this man who, I’d say, is thirtyish, brunette and has a rather thin moustache is feeling some reservation about his new wedding.

But, you ask, how can I possibly interpret dreams that well? What you first need is a symbol list. The following is a small one I assembled myself.

Now let us try this simple dream: I was flying along taking photos with my camera of the moon when I saw this cigarette-smoking owl with a smily face in its talons. Then cotton. Pretty scary, huh? Lucky thing his dreams are so easy to interpret or else he might still be walking the streets today.

Let’s try another: I lit a cigarette and looked in the mirror only to find that I was made of cotton. And this owl kept hooting and hooting, louder and louder and louder. Pretty tough, huh? Well maybe this will help: mirror-Splendid Beauty to show in the fourth race. Ah, now it’s beginning to get a little clearer.

According to some, kind of peculiar things happen when they dream. This is perhaps the biggest obstacle to understanding dreams. Let’s take this weird example: A crazy lookin’ octopus lady comes up to me and says in this really weird underwater voice, “doobooboo yoobooboo hababave babababababorrow.” So it says “maybe” and “what's it to you.” Then I fly into this guy's lap on account someone pulled the emergency break. Then I remember I left the roast in too long—BUT THE ROAST IS FINE.

Sure, that dream may seem normal enough, but that woman is a faithful customer of SAFEWAY. Spooky, huh? And you better sit down for this. She ended up murdering her children a week later. Now do you see the importance of dream interpretation?

Here’s one last dream for you to interpret: I was at the A&P shopping for salad dressing. I decided not to get Marie’s because it was too expensive, and my husband was beating my dog lifeless. Then I smoked a cigarette. But I didn’t want to get those Good Seasons packets because we never have vinegar around the house unless it's Eastertime, and we’re dying Easter eggs, but even then it just sits there, a big ol’ jug of it, collecting dust. So I decided on a moderately priced, already made brand.

Platoon strives for realism concerning Vietnam war

If you’re one of the minority of Davidson students who reads the Charlotte Observer, you probably saw the pages and pages of commentary on the latest Vietnam movie, Platoon. Since the movie premiered on Jan. 30 people have swarmed to the Charlottetown Cinema, the only one showing Platoon, and have sold out every show.

Waiting in a line which stretched from the ticket booth into the nether world of the parking lot, I saw a lot of men in their late 30’s and early 40’s. They, too, had heard about the movie directed by a man who had been there. Seemingly the non-symbolic version of Apocalypse Now, the film even stars Charlie Sheen, son of Martin Sheen, who looks a great deal like his father.

This is a film of opposites, contrasts and hypocrisies. Poor men with little choice fought a war planned by the best and brightest of Harvard. The officers, fresh out of college with no battle experience, issued orders to enlisted soldiers without truly knowing or caring about the outcome. The characters of Elias and the scar-faced Sergeant Barnes exemplify the opposite poles in the attitudes of the soldiers.

Pee Wee pleases all
By SCOTT GOODWIN

Pee Wee Herman has broken out of his playhouse, a show which aired over HBO as a special, into his...own movie. Most of you probably know that by now, as this movie has been out for over a year, but it is in the 900 Room tonight for all to see for only 99 cents. If you know anything about Pee Wee, you know that his comedic style depends heavily on insane facial gestures, meaningless snickers and noises, and his characteristic... well, growl. He is an overgrown kid whose prized possession is his bicycle. As he launches into a typical “Pee Wee” day, one sees his crazy house and the crazy inventions in it. He gets his bike from the hidden garage by his house and heads for the bike shop. What ensues is 90 minutes of total zaniness as Pee Wee endeavors to recover his stolen bike from unknown thieves. His quest takes him across the country, through one unbelievable episode after another, with Pee Wee cackling and being obnoxious continually.

What is strange is the people who came into the room where I was previewing the movie had to say about it. A friend of mine came in, stated that Pee Wee was a complete moron and unfunny as well, yet I had to evict him after he watched 20 minutes of the movie. It seems that even if you hate Mr. Herman, you’ll enjoy his Big Adventure a lot. It’s nutty, zany, bizarre... and popcorn is half price!

HAIR DESIGNERS STUDIO
Corner of Hwy. 115 & Faith Rd. (3 Miles North of Davidson College)
Mon., Tues., Wed. - 1-5
CHILDREN’S HAIRCUT & STYLE.....$3
HAIRCUT & STYLE (Male or Female)
Taking Appointments
Thurs., Fri., Sat. - 12-5
PERMANENT WAVE start at $25

He demonstrates exceptional bravery when he descends the VC catacombs. He shows superior jungle warfare tactics in the jungle, spiriting himself through the woods and encountering the enemy along his flight. An able guerrilla, he also has a deep compassion for the Vietnamese people. He stops further killing when the platoon seems ready to massacre an entire village.

Sergeant Barnes is a fighter of the most common degree. He brandishes his gun and feels omnipotent over life and death. He lusts for the kill, even if the victims may be innocent. He and his cohorts take part in murdering, raping and humiliating the people they were sent to protect. He takes advantage of the trust placed in him in more than one way.

The jungle is another set of contradictions. Appearing as the veritable Garden of Eden, so beautiful underneath the blanket of stars, the jungle cloaks more horrors than the Americans can imagine. The red ants, raping the men as they sleep more vehemently than the ones of Cannon dorm, the snakes, and the Viet Cong lurking everywhere instill a paranoia which turns the beauty of the wilderness into a horrible ugliness. But these elements of the film only serve to add to its richness of meaning. The real impact of the film stems from the scenes which shock and mortify the audience. The killing does not stop with the Americans against the Vietnamese. The boys also kill each other. This movie may be too realistic for some to believe, and for others to handle. Although not a movie for the whole family, Platoon will surely become a monument to the cause that went unwon and unsung.

COLLEGE GRADUATES
Put your education to work—become a Lawyer’s Assistant
“The Career of the 80's” at The National Center for Paralegal Training
* Oldest and largest ABA-approved program in Southeast
* Employment assistance- over 1,000 employers in 38 states have hired our graduates
* 3 month day program with housing available
* 7 month evening program
* Diversified Curriculum- specialize in Litigation, Corporations, or Real Estate and Probate— including “Computers in the Practice of Law”.

Meet with our representative Tuesday, February 17, 9:00 AM-12:00 NOON at the college placement office

The National Center for Paralegal Training
3414 Peachtree Rd, NE - Atlanta, GA 30326
800-223-2618
In Georgia, call 404-266-1060

Please send me information about a career as a Lawyer’s Assistant
Name
Address
City
State
Zip
College
Yr. Grad.
Phone: DAYS (___) EVENING (___)