Friday, November 6, 1987

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WDAV Radiothon is really a celebration
$132,000 raised for Station operations
By MUADI MUKENGE

WDAV kicked off its ninth annual radiothon on October 25 at 6 a.m., broadcasting live from the Morrison Room of
the College Union. The week-long event, entitled “Celebration ’87,” ended Sunday, November 1 at 1 a.m. The goal for this
year’s radiothon was $135,000. Since their conception in 1979, the “Celebration” campaigns have always met and often surpassed their goals,
Clark said. Celebration ’81 raised $55,000; Celebration ’86 raised $134,000.

By October 28, the radiothon had raised $32,090. At that time Clark was not worried about hitting the $135,000 mark.
Fifty percent of the funds are usually raised during the last two days of the fundraiser, he said. Indeed, by
November 1 $129,000 was raised; by the Wednesday afterward the pledges had increased to $132,000. Clark said callers continue to
call after the radiothon is over so that the goal is virtually always surpassed. Of the callers from the eight-county
broadcasting area, 95 to 96 percent honor their pledges, he said.

The station manages the event with its seven permanent staff members as well as with as many as 200 volunteers,
said Meg Kimmel, a part-time staff writer for the development office and former Community Relations director for WDAV. Help is
needed answering phones, processing pledge forms, and entering data, she said. According to Kimmel, the money raised is used for
the station’s annual operations budget which covers salaries, equipment, and utilities. WDAV also holds a “minithon” in May of each
year.

WDAV followed tradition by offering incentives -- membership premiums -- for listeners while trying to raise money. This “thank you”
is accomplished in the form of daily broadcasts of special guest ensembles in addition to the regular classical music programming.
Clark said that the annual WDAV radiothon is appropriately named “Celebration ’87.” “We don’t really regard it as work... it’s
part of our family. If it’s important to make a call, they will.” As he munched on his apple (an
appropriate snack, “not a lot of doughnuts,”) Clark said that the staff tries to pace itself and actually has a
lot of fun while working.

Daily guest performers for the event included the Oratorio Singers of Charlotte, the Nikos Trio, and others.

DORMS, from p.1
have; but we first want to take care of those fifty students that we cannot give housing to.” Meetze is
enthusiastic about the future growth of Davidson College. At the same time, he realizes that there must be order in
the growth and expansion. “We must conform to orderly growth without mixing the living center with the academic center. This
is the way that the campus is currently set up, and it will stay that way.”

EXAMS, from p.1
freshman class on the issue. The survey revealed that 94% were in favor of adding a reading day. The “nearly
unanimous” favorable response prompted the SGA to present a proposal to the committee. A memo issued to Doenges on October
29th stated that the committee had voted unanimously against extending the number of reading days but had instead approved the
extension of the examination periods for the 1988-89 school year. The memo also praised the efforts of the SGA representatives
and their “thoughtful and considered presentation” and encouraged Doenges to continue providing input and opinion concerning the calendar. Doenges expressed
optimism about what he termed “a frank and open discussion on both sides.”

“This shows that they [the faculty] do recognize student opinion,” said Doenges. According to the memo, changes have not and
will not be made in the 1989-90 calendar until after the College can examine the success of next year’s calendar.
Nonetheless, the committee’s decision may be seen as a significant step towards the dawn of a new era in faculty-student
cooperation.a fun thing. The Davidson faculty member James led in certain amounts of service for the listeners and Swisher on
piano; the Rhodora money to the station. This year matching funds were provided by several businesses, including Arnold Jewelers, the
Charlotte Orthodontics Group, and First Union. According to station manager John Clark, the radiothon seeks to show WDAV’s appreciation for
its supporters. “We’re celebrating their commitment to the station,” Clark said. He mentioned that WDAV announcers try not to hound
listeners when the phones become quiet. “You have to be positive on air. It’s a challenge to make the listeners
realize that they are a vital part of the station.”

By RUPERT BARBER
Sesquicentennial Celebration Coordinator

Climaxing the Davidson College Sesquicentennial Celebration will be the Closing Convocation on January 29, 1988. This convocation will focus on
the local Davidson College family—students and employees—as together we reaffirm the purpose and goals of the college and our commitment
to it and to its future. Responding to the idea that this would be an appropriate time for all of
us together to present a tangible and lasting gift to the college, President Kuykendall has appointed a Sesquicentennial Gift Committee
to select a gift and to work out the means of securing it. The committee of sixteen is drawn from
all the various segments of the local family. The initial thought of the committee is that such a gift, commemorating
this 150th anniversary, would also be a gift to future generations. Hopefully, the campus would be able to begin enjoying
such a gift immediately. But it is most imperative that a Sesquicentennial gift provide pleasure to the college community for
years to come, as current students become returning alumni and current employees retire and are succeeded by new generations of
Davidsonians.

At its first meeting, the committee decided (1) to seek suggestions from the college community to help determine the type
of gift, and (2) to select a gift which could be paid for by a very nominal donation from all
students and employees. Therefore, the committee is very interested in all suggestions and ideas pertaining to the Sesquicentennial gift. Listed
below are some of the suggestions which the campus is being asked to rank in order of first, second, and
third choices. Respondents are requested to also list any other suggestions they might have:

- Concrete benches arranged in clusters
- Landscaped outdoor sitting area
- Sundial
- Outdoor flagpole for the Sesquicentennial flag and the class flag
- College seal set in bronze in the plaza in front of Chambers
- A fountain
- Revitalization of the old water fountain, the original college well

Suggestions received by the committee will be carefully studied and considered for their lasting impact upon and appropriateness to the
campus. Suggestion forms and boxes will be located in the following places:

- Chambers—first floor
- Chambers—time clock
- Chambers—mailbox room
- E.H. Little Library
- Grey Student Union
- Vail Commons
- Johnston Gym
- College Laundry

It is expected that the Sesquicentennial gift will be a presentation from everyone on campus. Students are requested to place
their suggestions in the designated boxes before November 13th. For additional information, contact the Sesquicentennial Office at ext. 447.

Players, saxophonist James Houlik, and the Carolina Brass Ensemble. After a week’s worth of 19-hour days, Clark said that the
staff has mixed feelings. “We’re relieved and happy that the goal was met. Of course, we’re tired—it takes a while
to get reoriented.”

Sesqui-Committee Searching for Gift Ideas

CELEBRATING 1837-1987 (150 YEARS)

Summer intern program in State Government
General Information Session
Monday, November 9 at 3:00 p.m.
Morrison Room, College Union

College sophomores, juniors, and seniors are eligible to apply.
Sponsored by the Institute of Government
For more information, contact Ken Wood at the Career Center

Specializing in Wedding Services and Supplies (Tuxedo Rentals)
Formals by:
- Miami Vice
- Robert Wagner
- Lord West
- Bill Blass
- Raffinati
- After Six
- Yves Saint Laurent

* Hometown Service
* Low Prices

We Invite You To Come In And See Us
Call Us At 892-9129
