Friday, April 29, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pop Film

High-tech, graphic Robocop is thinking man’s Rambo

By CHARLES HOUCK and TOM MOORE

Warning: this movie is not a cartoon. Parents taking children into theaters last summer expecting one were served a rude
awakening. They also dined on one of arguably the best (if hands down most violent) action films of 1987. Although
originally brandishing an “X” rating for graphic violence, Robocop is much more than a mechanized Rambo.

In the near future, where private corporations have taken over such areas as space exploration and law enforcement, a plan
to revitalize the city has only one obstacle: crime.

After a graphically disastrous test of a fully automated police officer by Omni Consumer Products (cop anagram OCP), Detroit’s private
law enforcement agency, alternate plans for developing Robocop, a cyborg, go into effect.

The brutal murder of police officer John Murphy (Buckaroo Banzai’s Peter Weller) by a group of Detroit new wave gangsters
gives OCP the lukewarm body it needs to build its half-man, half-robot crime fighter. “Goodnight, sweet prince!” a villain laughs
as they leave Murphy’s mangled body. The sadism they display makes them oh, so pleasing targets for the hero to
track down and bring to justice.

The killing of Murphy is sickeningly realistic. Body parts fly with abandon in possibly one of the most explicit and
intense murder scenes ever. It is difficult to see where it could have been more violent in previous cuts.

In the accompanying emergency room scene, doctors messily work on Murphy’s body in a scene with an attention to detail
that characterizes the film.

In the hands of the company, Murphy’s memory is erased, and he becomes for OCP a product, not a man.
“Well, he signed the release form when he joined the department, and he’s legally dead, so I guess we can
do with him what we want,” says one OCP exec as they coldly contemplate which surviving body parts to keep
and which to do away with.

The memory erasure is not perfect, however, and Murphy as Robocop has dreams and glimpses of his fully human life,
along with the gory details of his death. Robocop tracks down his killers and moves toward Clarence Boddicker, crime lord
of Old Detroit and dealer of Murphy’s final, fatal blow.

He also moves closer to finding his own identity. With the help of his former partner, who sees Murphy through
the metal, he attempts to capture what is left of his former life. “I can feel them, but I can’t
remember them,” he says quietly of his wife and son in one of the film’s most touching moments.

See COP, page 8

Rock ‘n roll to benefit prisoners of conscience

By LISA GERRARD

Davidson will attempt its own version of the eighties’ “Band Aid” and the sixties’ “Woodstock” on Chamber’s lawn, Saturday, May
7. Four rock bands are in the lineup for an Amnesty International benefit concert that organizers hope will bring a
large showing from the student body and community.

Bands will play from 3:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., and a $4 donation is requested.

Refreshments and t-shirts will be sold throughout the day as well. A DC student band called Rumpus will lead off,
followed by Chapel Hill-based Other Bright Colors and Charlotte’s Leaking Wonders. The headline act is another Charlotte band, Fetchin’ Bones,
which is operating under a major recording label and, according to event organizer Jay Barron, has opened for R.E.M. and
other well-known groups.

All bands are performing free of charge. The money raised will be used to cover basic operating expenses of Davidson’s
chapter of Amnesty International and to benefit the Ivan Morris Foundation, which supports families of jailed prisoners of conscience. A.I.
defines prisoners of conscience as individuals detained anywhere for their beliefs, color, sex, ethnic origin, language or religion, provided they
have neither used nor advocated violence. Supported entirely by private donations on national and international levels, Amnesty International works to
identify and eliminate human rights violations all over the world. The Davidson chapter meets Thursday nights at 9 p.m. in
the conference room of the Union. For more information, contact Jay Barron or Julie Mayfield.

The authors and officer Murphy: thinking men, thinking machine.

Robert Nesbitt

WARD

ROBE

by revit

I DIDN'T ACTUALLY SEE THE MOVIE. YOU SEE, I'M THE SPACE SOLDIER WHO MUST FACE THE ANTI-TERROR GO OF M.P.S.
CHILL. YOU SEE, WE HAD THIS PLAN, IT ALL STARTED LAST YEAR IN M.P.S. AND KEVI KEV'S CRIB, (AKA THE
ICE BOX F)

MDS. Wen

Crassé

Take pRRoRIs

LEFT

(Toes BBp WAS Goan!

It To France Te

guid AQCANCEP

m, WHue

BeEHA? To

PONS

SRN

CROOKED

ROVQOKK}

SRRRKRK

You GeING Te EvRoPA

Awp Taking MUAF wine

You...

Hat?

YEAH, It’s A Buze- Ke

ALRIGHTY, Bot There

Has To Be A Way -

To CONTiINVE THE

Bean Washing of Te

STUDENTS With Ove

Twistep LiserRar

Ruetoric 7 iff

aoe

wr

éRre Amusep ConFusep AupG

A Praw Was Reacdep To

Foo. THe Reavers By A

Is Fiwe. anp Wer. It

Was Are A Hoax 7 A Trew

To PrePpnre You For Next

Ye ar. Get Reapy For

THe. ONS LAVGH TY THe

DABusep. - Just Like Te Vays «Mug

Peorre W
