‘i Hall beefs up versatility in Johnny Be Good

By BRUCE PLOURDE

Michael J. Fox’s latest movie, Bright Lights, Big City, seems more like a continuation of another movie than anything original.
Perhaps it should have been subtitled The Secret of My Success, Part II: The Secret of My Failure. Or maybe
director James Bridges meant Bright Lights, Big City as the family version of Less Than Zero.

Whatever the intention, the resulting movie delivers a heavy message which tries to evoke sympathy for the central character but
ends up causing tears shed out of boredom. Fox plays Jaimie Conway, a research editor for Gotham magazine. This periodical
prides itself on, of all things, factual accuracy which even Dr. Nelson might appreciate. As a result, the research department
at Gotham carries much importance as well as much responsibility. The job requires time and concentration, two of the things
that Jaimie’s evening and weekend habits drain from him. His secretary covers for him often, making excuses to the head
of the research department, Clara Tillinghast. Well, her name says it all. As tough a nag as she is, even
she gives the young apprentice a lot of leeway. Everybody, it would seem, covers for cute, friendly Jaimie. Like the
coma baby that the New York Post reports on daily, he enwraps himself in their assistance and frequent snorts of
coke, refusing to come out of his self-secreted shell to face reality. Either arrogantly or correctly, he believes he has
some talent as a writer but neglects both writing and his job under the pressures of grim family memories, an
absentee wife (Amanda), and his need for chemical enlightenment.

Fox also apparently has talent but can’t break away from the pompous Alex Keaton of Family Ties. In fact, he
has kept the same ties throughout his three movie efforts, not only his favorite neckties and blazers but also his
same smug and flippant replies. C’mon Michael, chuck the blazer, drop the razor, and find another role, willya? Once a
week on TV and twice on the big screen is enough. Get another role which doesn’t imply that “money is
poetry these days.”

Keifer Sutherland as Jaimie’s whoring buddy Tad Allagash also performs as his audience has come to expect. In short, this
movie doesn’t have a great deal of fresh innovation or redeeming value. The plot is withered and sere, the acting
rote, the dialogue vaguely familiar. And Michael is still wearing those family ties.

Not every young actor knits himself into a comfortable little niche. Anthony Michael Hall, who until recently has played the
high school geek, has beefed up his limbs and deepened his voice to play a very believable high school quarterback
in Johnny Be Good. Hall is Johnny Walker, a miracle football player who finds himself surrounded by well-wishers who want
to do favors for him. Old Tex, UCC, and every other college in the U.S. with a football program offer
him the world if only he will come to play for them. His friend Leo (Robert Downey, Jr.) and he
enjoy the attention and rely upon the crowd of recruiters as a source of fun and ego boosting.

The film’s message is not terribly profound. It examines the corruption inherent in college recruitment and the effects of the
flatteries upon an impressionable mind. But Johnny Be Good takes the task at hand in such a way that the
audience is only subtly aware of such a theme. Instead, the film is a vehicle for the antics of Johnny
and Leo, and a medium for prime silliness of a superior grade. As jocks, they like horseplay of the roughest
kind, but they also have brains enough to

Wednesday, April 13, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIANwhip out insults and plan revenge. The recruitment, however, begins to take its toll on the all-American boy. Promises
of lucrative deals turn him from considerations of a good education with his friends to prospects of cars, cash, and
kittens. Not only the recruiters but also his coach and friends work on him, trying to steer him toward a
college which promises the most for both Johnny and themselves. He recognizes that, if decided wrong, this one choice could
result in losing everything he holds dear: his friends, his bodacious true love, Georgia (Uma Thurman), and even his career
as a football player. But even Shakespeare didn’t let his comedies end in sorrow. In the end, everybody gets their
just desserts. The cavalier tone throughout makes Johnny Be Good pleasurable, but also seeing Anthony Michael Hall taking off the
braces and freckles and donning a mouthguard and shoulder pads, and wearing them comfortably, adds a sense of satisfaction in
knowing his versatility.

Mike Jarmon finds his "Mesgutive outlet" — and excels

How a Davidson Biology major learned to express himself through award-winning artwork

By LISA GERRARD

Senior art major Mike Jarmon says that despite certain drawbacks in the school’s attitude, Davidson College is a good place
to be an artist. Having transferred as a sophomore from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Jarmon bases
his opinions on three years of study here, through which he not only discovered visual art to be an effective
medium of expression for him, but also came to excel in it. His work has won several awards and has
been the focus of two campus shows. Most recently, Jarmon has won the drawing category in a state-wide undergraduate competition
sponsored by UNC-Chapel Hill; last year he won the print category. His senior presentation, a retrospective showing of his work
at Davidson, is currently on display in the gallery of Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

“For someone like me who needed to get away from the noise and motion, Davidson is a good place. It’s
self-contained and quiet and allows you to concentrate,” he said. There are also drawbacks, however. Small town life admittedly affords
comparatively fewer resources and cultural events. But more debilitating than location, said Jarmon, is the school’s emphasis on academic workload
at the expense of creativity. “Most people, because of pressure, end up feeling like they don’t have the time or
energy... People are convinced that they don’t have creative outlets,” he said. “The school is a bit hypocritical in their
claim to liberal arts when they do not draw more balance for creative outlets.”

Although the college’s approach to the arts in general may draw Jarmon’s fire, he is quick to toast the excellence
of the art department, which he deems small but potent. Offering possibilities and challenges for creative thinkers, the art department
is an important part of Davidson fine arts and the school in general, he said. The personal interest the faculty
takes in the students has impressed him as well. In fact, he credits Art Professor Herb Jackson with his becoming
interested in art at Davidson. When he transferred here, Jarmon rented a house from Jackson instead of living on campus.
Jackson and his wife Laura occasionally invited him to their home for dinner, and a lasting friendship was begun. The
art professor encouraged Jarmon, who was then a biology major, to enroll in a basic painting class. Although he hadn’t
painted since fifth grade, he took the class because he was ready to try a different way of learning within
the liberal arts environment. The change proved valuable, beginning a transitional period through which Jarmon’s career plans have changed from
medicine to the fine arts. “I was more interested in self-expression,” he said, “and was looking for the right medium.”

See JARMON, next page

“The Monk and I” (4/88, 55" x 246"), a series work on display at Cunningham Fine Arts Center as a
part of Jarmon’s senior presentation, “Me: A Retrospective.”
