sports

The Davidsonian
Monday, November 7, 1988

Late ETSU field goal leads to Cat defeat:
Bucknell drops Cats 21-13 in conference game

By BRUCE NEWSOME

An East Tennessee State field goal with 1:44 left in the game vaulted the Buccaneers over the Wildcats in a hard-fought 31-28 victory Saturday night.

Coach Vic Gatto gave freshman Nicky Crawford his first start and he got the offense moving. He rushed for 119 yards and two touchdowns while passing for 147 more yards.

After falling behind 21-14 at the half, the Cats came back in the third quarter to tie the game. Crawford provided the spark on the drive with a 49-yard run. This run was the longest of the season for Davidson. Crawford capped off the drive with a 1-yard run.

Early in the fourth quarter, Davidson took the lead 28-21 and looked like they might upset their Southern Conference opponent. Wide receiver Horace Hamm used his speed on a reverse play to go 41 yards for a touchdown. With 11:50 left in the game, the Cats led by 7.

However, this lead did not even last one minute. On the ensuing kickoff, Albert Burt ran through the Davidson kickoff coverage team for a 96-yard touchdown return. ETSU elected to kick the extra point and tie the game at 28-28.

ETSU won the game with a 19-yard field goal with 1:44 left in the game to take the lead. Davidson was unable to score on their last possession, and the final score was 31-28.

Last Saturday Davidson lost to the Bucknell Bison 21-13 in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. The loss dropped the Cats to 0-8 for the season and 0-3 in conference play. The Bison victory was only their second of the season (Columbia being their other victim) and their first conference victory.

The first quarter belonged to Bucknell. On their opening possession, they drove 58 yards in nine plays. Their tailback went in from 2 yards out for the score.

On their next possession, the Bison went 92 yards in 17 plays. This long drive was capped by a short touchdown pass to the tight end.

In the middle two quarters, Davidson regained its composure and narrowed the score. Brian Jacob connected on two field goals from 20 yards and 32 yards. Fullback Brian Kelly scored a second-quarter touchdown on a 1-yard plunge.

At the end of the third quarter, it appeared that the Cats might gain their first victory of the season and their first Colonial League victory ever. They had cut the score to 14-13 and had the momentum.

However, a Davidson turnover led to a late Bison touchdown. Mike Wright, who had 98 yards rushing for the day, fumbled late in the fourth quarter at the Davidson 18-yard line. This fumble is one of many untimely Davidson turnovers this season.

Five plays later, Bucknell got a 3-yard touchdown pass to close out the scoring at 21-13. This was the Bison's eighth straight victory over Davidson and their 15th in the 18-game series.

The Cats end the season and try to break a 12-game losing streak Saturday at home against the Colonial League-leading Lafayette Leopards.

Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Soccer finishes at 8-12-2; loses to Wake and American

By WHIT WILKS

Davidson closed out its 1988 season on a down note as the Cats lost their final two matches to Wake Forest 6-1 and to American 4-3. The losses followed an impressive 2-1 win over Appalachian State.

On October 26 in Boone, Peter Cobb gave the Cats an unusual early lead when he scored in the first half. The Mountaineers evened the contest just before halftime.

Neco DaSilva scored in the second half for Davidson, and the team made the lead hold up, recording the 2-1 victory.

In front of a large Parents’ Weekend crowd last Sunday, nationally-ranked Wake Forest rolled into town and dashed any upset hopes very early. The Deacons scored three goals in the first twelve minutes against a stunned Davidson defense.

The lead reached 3-0 before Walter Wray got the Cats on the board in the second half to close the margin to 3-1. Wake added three late goals against some of the younger Davidson players on their way to the 6-1 victory.

On Saturday, the Cats hosted American in the season finale. After a scoreless first half, Davidson took the lead only moments into the second stanza when Rob Vest converted on a penalty kick. The kick resulted from a foul against an American defender who hauled down Mike Friedlander inside the penalty area. Frank Bricio doubled the lead when he scored from close range a few minutes later.

Then the Cats experienced the type of let-down which has plagued them all year. American came up with three goals in roughly ten minutes to capture the lead.

Much to Davidson’s credit, the team did not fold at this point. Instead, the Cats evened the contest when Rob Ukrop put a header past the American keeper.

American managed to score another goal of their own, however, and the visitors held on for the 4-3 win. Davidson finished with a record of 8-12-2.