2

Fundraiser to help victims of apartheid

Charlotteans for a Free South Africa are sponsoring an African Cook-in at The Unitarian Church on Saturday, May 14, from 5:30 to 9:00 PM. The event will raise money for a Tanzanian college for South African refugees. Authentic African dishes will be served. Tickets are available from YWCA Park Road and Uptown, International House, and the Afro-American Center. Prices are $10 for adults, $7.50 for students and seniors, and $5 for children. For further information, contact Cindy Patten at 371-7782 (office) or 597-7467 (home).

Goodwin-Exxon Award nominations accepted

Nominations are now being accepted for the 1988-1989 Goodwin-Exxon Award. The award will be presented in the fall to three students—one each from the rising sophomore, junior, and senior classes. A committee of students, faculty, and staff choose the recipients on the basis of their contribution to the quality of life on campus during the school year. The award is designed to recognize qualities other than accomplishments in scholarship, leadership, and sports. The students should represent the highest standards of character, good sportsmanship, friendliness, and consideration of the less fortunate. Nominations can be made by all members of the Davidson community. Nominating forms are being distributed across the campus and community. If you know of a student who you feel is worthy of this award, please submit a nomination form to the Dean of Students Office by May 9. Present students who are Goodwin-Exxon winners are Leigh Hall '90, Sam Cutting '89, Sarah Merritt '89, Vincent Knight '88, Michael Poulos '88, and Wes Hofferbert '88.

Trustees hold Spring meeting next week

The Trustees will hold their annual Spring meeting on Thursday and Friday, May 5 and 6. Items on the agenda include: the service task force report; a feasibility study for a new fundraising campaign; an update of progress toward racial and ethnic balance; approval of faculty promotions; the college alcohol policy; and guidelines for corporations in which Davidson holds stock that do business in South Africa.

Davidson’s first black students return to share experiences

Mature voices also offered advice for improving race relations

By MARIA DOUGLAS

The first three black students to matriculate at Davidson College returned last alumni weekend to share their college experiences with students, faculty, and alumni during a forum held Saturday afternoon in the College Union. George Nzongola-Ntalaja, '67, Wayne Crumwell, '68, and Leslie Brown, '69 spoke about isolation, academic life, relations with professors and students, as well as the ties which they developed with the black community. Their stories contained threads of similarity, but each had unique perspectives.

Nzongola, a native of Zaire and presently a professor of Afro-American Studies at Howard University in Washington, D.C., was educated in Presbyterian mission schools. It was while he was in the States through the International Christian Youth Exchange program that he was contacted by then college president Grier Martin. According to Nzongola, Martin extended an invitation for the Zairean to matriculate at Davidson, explaining that he would be one of the college’s only and first two blacks, the other being Wayne Crumwell, a North Carolina native.

Nzongola perceives his college experience as “very useful years.” A philosophy major, he emphasized the fact that he was aware that he was somewhat of an experiment—a “showpiece.” Yet “tokenism has its fruits,” he said. Nzongola often demanded to see the president and was received in a matter of minutes.

Along with pleasant experiences were the bad, especially considering the fact that Nzongola was at an all-male Southern college. Nzongola cited isolation as a primary source of misery. He was one of two blacks in 1963, one of four in '64, one of six in '65, and one of eight in '66. Nzongola did have a few solid friendships with white students as well as certain professors. Interestingly enough, one white friend was forced to leave his fraternity because of association with blacks. Nzongola said the problems he had dealing with whites forced him to spend a lot of time studying. As there were no black faculty on Davidson’s staff, all blacks maintaining janitorial positions, black students had no professional black role models. In remarking that Davidson presently has only 5 blacks on its professional staff, he added, “I find it hard to believe that 26 years later, the college is still unable to find qualified black professors.”

Nzongola offered himself as a resource person and recruiter for Davidson as he is president of African Studies of the United States, an organization which serves as a placement program for black professionals seeking work at the college level.

As misconceptions about minorities were and still are common among students and faculty, Nzongola maintained that integration serves little purpose if it seeks only to incorporate minority students. Instead, integration must be a reciprocative process whereby white members of the college community can appreciate the history and worth of minorities.

All three alumni expressed deep feelings of affection for the black community in Davidson. Visits and meals made the campus experience easier to bear. Crumwell, who is now a lawyer, related a more negative experience than Nzongola: “Whoever coordinated my campus visit did a...good job,”he said. As a prospective, he felt that he could become a part of a great institution. “There was a lot of stuff I didn’t realize,” he commented. According to Crumwell, a college is to nurture the student and assist in helping the student realize his potential. Instead, said Crumwell, at Davidson the roles were reversed, especially for the black students. “The role of the black students was to nurture the college...by demonstrating that blacks were capable.” Blacks were under pressure to prove that they could be successful. 

Interestingly enough, Crumwell felt that the Davidson experience prepared blacks for the real world. “It was probably a benefit if you consider it from the proper perspective,” he said. Crumwell suggested the ostracism he felt could have been alleviated had Davidson been prepared to receive blacks. Structurally and emotionally, the college was ill-prepared, he said. Nevertheless, Crumwell said he received an “extremely good education.”

Leslie Brown entered Davidson in 1964 with Crumwell. “I brought with me some sort of mission, I carried a burden,” said Brown. With this burden, he said that “it’s amazing that we did as well as we did.” Brown added that acting out of the perceptions of others has the ability to enslave one’s spirit. It wasn’t until later that he learned to live for himself. Brown further hypothesized that Davidson’s first blacks were deprived of the opportunity to experience a wide range of black intellectual thought which is cultivated along with the association and social relationships usually found in black schools. Nevertheless, “I left Davidson with a great deal of confidence in myself,” says Brown, citing that he became a critical writer and reader in addition to possessing oratorical skills.

According to Brown, today Davidson has to commit itself to educating black and white students to become leaders of the future rather than to stress differences which build stratification.

SGA rush policy resolution for Patterson Court

WHEREAS, Davidson College is an institution dedicated to the development of moral virtue, community consciousness, and intellectual growth; and

WHEREAS, the quantitative experience of college exceeds academia, but encompasses social and interpersonal relationships through which the individual comes to terms with himself/herself and society; and

WHEREAS, alcohol is an ever-present aspect of college life and society as a whole, students must learn both the positive and negative aspects associated with the use of alcohol; and

WHEREAS, several maladaptive attitudes in regard to alcohol have pervaded our community and manifested themselves in increased violence, vandalism, and animosity; and

WHEREAS, a policy to combat these negative campus trends is necessary, the Senate of the Students Government Association contends that a strict and formal “dry rush” is not an acceptable solution to the problem;

1. A policy be adopted which advocates and reinforces mature and stable interaction in the presence of alcohol, but where alcohol is a peripheral aspect and not the central object around which an event will revolve.

2. Events of such a nature will be designed to promote not only mature alcohol usage but also total campus interaction and harmony.

3. These events will be designed to emulate the Spring Frolics atmosphere which facilitated natural student and faculty interaction in the de-emphasized presence of alcohol.

4. This plan of action will allow Patterson Court to come together for a common purpose, thus reducing present tensions which may exist between certain constituencies.

5. All houses will be required to meet a small financial obligation and pledge their support to assure the success of such events.

6. The SGA will support, publicize, and assist in the organization of such activities. The College Union has also expressed enthusiastic support of this concept and would possibly assist financially and organizationally.

7. The time frame and event schedule is ultimately flexible, but the SGA feels that the first event should take place after the third week of school (to allow the freshman unification process to fully develop). Another event should be held between that time and the date that Freshmen are first allowed on the Court. Two more events should be held before Freshmen are allowed on the Court free of any restrictions.

8. The SGA Senate feels that this policy will accomplish what a strict dry rush system is, by nature, incapable of accomplishing. Not only will Freshmen and Court members meet in a mature setting, but those houses which traditionally have membership problems will have the opportunity to expand the scope of their recruitment activities and attract new members.