Commentaries

Davidson's trustees need to divest in South Africa

Julie Mayfield

The Saturday of Homecoming, while most students were getting ready for the game and alumni were attending receptions, a relatively
small group of students, alumni, and area residents gathered behind the Commons to voice our solidarity with the black citizens
of South Africa who long to be free from the oppressive system of apartheid. We also voiced our ongoing demands
for the Davidson Trustees to divest our money from companies doing business in South Africa.

It was a moving gathering. We heard disturbing, first-hand stories of the realities of apartheid—the night several dozen people were
mowed down in Lesotho by South African police. They were killed because they were working to free their people. I
spent this past summer in Lesotho and was made keenly aware of this unjust system. I worked with a South
African man my age who came to live in Lesotho at the age of six because both of his parents
were killed by the South African Security Forces. His father used to work for the police but quit because he
was forced to be brutal to his own people. He was murdered because he was tired of being an agent
of repression.

There was also the German girl I met who shared with me an experience she had while staying in South
Africa. She met a black man who offered to show her Pretoria and the surrounding ghettos. On his way home
from walking her back to her hotel, he was badly beaten (consequently hospitalized) by some white men who had seen
the two together. He was brutalized because he had crossed the color barrier in a gesture of kindness.

These stories are commonplace in not only South Africa, but Southern Africa as a region. South Africa is a powerful
country which has all of the surrounding countries at its mercy. Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Angola, and Mozambique are all autonomous
countries but are so economically dependent on South Africa that sometimes that autonomy is in name only. South Africa imposes
itself in other ways on the surrounding countries, supporting rebel movements in Angola and Mozambique which serve to destabilize those
countries, thus keeping them even more dependent on the regime they abhor.

The countries of southern Africa are extremely poor (with the exception of South Africa itself). South Africa encourages the continuation
of this poverty because keeping these other countries poor and unstable makes South Africa more powerful. You may ask then,
if this web of dependence is a fact, won’t divestment only make the situation much worse than it is? Won’t
these other countries feel the repercussions of the withdrawal of billions of dollars? The answer is a resounding yes. Does
this mean divestment is not the answer? The answer here is a resounding no.

There are many arguments on both sides of the issue, but the bottom line is that the far-reaching power of
South Africa must be curbed. Equally as important, the brutality that the government exerts over the vast majority of its
citizens needs to be stopped.

So, again, why divestment? Because divestment is the solution for which many of the black leaders in South Africa have
called. Steve Biko, Nelson Mandela, and Bishop Tutu have all asserted that divestment is the way to isolate South Africa
so it must make changes. Who are we, living as far away as we do and being as ignorant as
we are, to challenge the judgment of those respected leaders?Leaders who ‘lived or still live with the system every day?
South Africa must be isolated, it must see that the world will not tolerate its policies. The world, however, must
be ready to protect and help the other nations in southern Africa so that they do not totally collapse. Divestment
is a way to achieve this isolation - it is the way many people have chosen to employ. Davidson’s money
(several million) may make little difference in the global picture, but this institution, which professes to uphold Christian values, must
make the statement that it will no longer support the cruel, unjust, inhuman, and certainly un-Christian regime that rules South
Africa. But even beyond the Christian reasoning, we, as students, faculty, alumni, staff, and trustees have a responsibility as human
beings to help our fellow humans who are suffering under a system that none of us would call just or
would stand to live under ourselves. We can help. We can take a firm stand for freedom and justice by
following the advice of those who know the situation first hand and by following the lead of many other colleges
and universities (e.g., Duke, UNC Chapel Hill). They would say “Davidson Out of South Africa!” Isn’t it time we did
too?

Julie Mayfield is a senior Religion major from Atlanta, GA.

For many years now it has been readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the
following guidelines:
- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community. The editors will also accept work submitted
on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.
- All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the Opinions Policy but for the rules of English grammar only.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly written. Editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names
printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style.
- Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent
a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following
information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).

NORMAN CROSSING SHOPPING CENTER
I-77 & HWY 73, EXIT 28
LAKE NORMAN/CORNELIUS
LUNCH SERVED
MONDAY-FRIDAY, 11 am-2 pm
Warning: Some menu items are made with ingredients that may cause allergies. Try our Home-made soup.

THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER
OXFORD, ENGLAND

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center. Junior status is required, and graduate study is
available. U.S. college in Oxford. Approved for student loans by the U.S. Dept. of Education to accept students with Guaranteed
Student Loans. Multi-national student housing and social activities are completed outside the classroom. A special summer session is available for
government officials, and business management with a 3.2 GPA or higher. For further information, please write or call:

STUDY IN OXFORD
Academic study for one part of the year. Students are directly enrolled in their college. This is NOT a program
conducted by a U.S. college in Oxford.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
Preprofessional Program. Courses in Political Science, International Relations, and Journalism. Courses are taught by professionals in the field. All inquiries
should be directed to:
Washington International Studies Center
235 Massachusetts Ave., NE Suite 230
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 547-3275
EO/AA
