Tuesday, December 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phonathon & Divestment

Dear Editor:

As a Davidson alumnus, I received a call this week from a student volunteer asking for a donation to the
Annual Fund. After explaining that I regretfully could not make a contribution until Davidson totally divests its endowment funds from
companies doing business in South Africa, I received a reply which floored me. The student said, "We were told that
if we received a reply like that we should say that none of the Annual Fund contributions would be used
for activities in South Africa."

One fellow alumnus I related this call to shook his head and said, "That’s an insult. Is Davidson some huckster
selling vacuum cleaners?" The student’s scripted reply not only reveals the student's ignorance about the nature of the call for
divestment, but also raises questions about whether the college is fulfilling its key function, which is to teach students to
think analytically for themselves. Instead of a scripted distortion of the issue, the college should be up front about the
Trustee policy, namely that the Trustees do not recognize the relevance of Davidson divesting despite the call for such action
from faculty, students, alumni, the wider community, and, most importantly, black and white church and anti-apartheid leaders in South Africa.

Let us keep the debate on the issue where it belongs: support for the white apartheid regime in South Africa.

Sincerely,
Monroe T. Gilmour, Jr. '68

The Real Reason

Dear Editor:

Davidson College recently announced plans to play football at the Division III level instead of Division IAA. The administration cites
the expense of competing in the Colonial League and compliance with Title IX as reasons for this decision. These issues
lie at the surface but are not the real reasons for cutting back the football program.

Four years ago, while I was still a student at Davidson College, I overheard a conversation between a Davidson professor
and a group of students one night at the Peregrine House restaurant. The professor said, in essence, that Davidson was
no place for football players. He said that they cheated to get by, that the college really needed a P.E.
major to accommodate them, and that they don’t integrate socially. I later confronted that professor, and he agreed that a
number of players (he graciously included me) did not fit that stereotype. But I left him with the feeling that
maybe he was not alone among the faculty in his beliefs.

Now let’s see what is at stake in the vote to finalize the drop to Division III:

Currently, many football players receive aid from the Wildcat Club. This aid enables people who otherwise could not afford Davidson
College to obtain a quality education and perhaps achieve a higher standard of living that a Davidson diploma can bring.
An entire social class of people may be completely removed from Davidson College. Perhaps the elimination of this type of
person is a part of the plan to move to Division III.

The players who are there now will lose the most. After years of work for some, they will face a
decision to leave or play at an unacceptable level. They may have to find a work-study job to pay for
that honor. The best players will leave. Among them will be some of Davidson’s best students. They must deal with
the unfulfilled promise of a college whose leaders do not support them.

The real reason the college is cutting back football is that the faculty and administration believe that competitive athletics in
general and football in particular will compromise the academic standards of the college and jeopardize its reputation. They do not
believe that the college can have good football and great academics, especially in a student body of 1,400. The money
would be there, I would think, for all sports, but then student-athletes would comprise a large proportion of the student
body, which the college is saying it no longer wants.

Sincerely,
[Name not provided]

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor
Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheelerwould be unacceptable to the faculty. They think their prestige is on the line.
— Kirk T. Gavel '85.

The Plan
Since the first rumblings about football several weeks ago, a lot of ground has been covered. The trustee committees announced
their recommendation to send football to Division III, the players reacted in fervent support of their sport, and, most recently,
the Faculty Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics presented its report to the faculty, and football players and coaches submitted a plan
to the Trustee Executive Board to chop costs. The first item has been addressed in the news pages of this
paper, the second has been seen in the opinions pages, and the third appears in this week’s issue. The last
event is going to be dealt with here.

There is but one good aspect to this proposal. The players’ offer to donate their Wildcat Club financial assistance should
put to rest the argument that they will not be able to afford a Division III Davidson. Can they really
only take out loans and work at jobs if they play football? The plan sent to acting trustee chair Craig
Wall is an excellent piece of public relations, but a lousy piece of economics and policy. The trustees clearly cannot
accept the proposal; the numbers are not realistic.

- $4,000 per year for our assistant coaches? Either they will have to work part-time, further clouding our chances of
winning games; or they will have a very difficult time feeding their families. The amount in summer wages to be
donated by non-financial aid players is roughly $500 per week per player. Bid them good luck in finding a job
that will pay that after taxes.
- $67,500 of the savings is to be gouged from the financial aid of next year’s freshman players. That’s damned
generous of you, guys.

The plan catches the trustees in a tight bind that is receiving great public attention: do they go on record
as turning down this so-called sincere expression of how much these guys want to play football, or do they accept
the proposal and go on record as making Davidson players pay to play? Either way, the trustees and the college
lose in the public eye, and either way the players win from the same perspective.

Who has put the trustees in such an uncomfortable position? Who has publicly embarrassed the college as it hasn’t been
in years? Who is biting hard the hand that feeds him? Head coach Vic Gatto. Whether this budget blitz is
his game plan or not, he signed his name to it, and it is his responsibility. Why is this important?
Because it is grounds for immediate firing. Gatto should have as his first priority Davidson College, and if he doesn’t,
he should be replaced posthaste by someone who does. Those familiar with the world outside Davidson look on in amazement.
Anywhere else, they say, such gross insubordination would be fired immediately. The longer a loose cannon swings around, the more
damage it does. Gatto should be terminated swiftly.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the maximum-security Grey
Student Union building.

Sorry the issue’s late this week, guys, but the only Union person we can really take this fiasco out on
publicly is Trey Harrell, the tall, studious-looking emaciated guy who works the Cafe grill. If you spot him, kick dirt
(or snow) on his shoes.

Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not ever, ever, reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request, and get 'em while they're low, ‘cause
we’re about to double ’em. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Hey! We’ve got a new prime directive operating this week, straight from the factory: To comfort the afflicted, and to
afflict the comfortable.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll.
Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome.

News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaiichan, Maria Douglas, Beth Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Ed
Powell.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Basle, Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat
Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjaoran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee
Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, Joanne Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce
Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chian Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson, Whit Wilks.

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, John “Eraserhead” Engel, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.

Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Mark Steen.

Spiritual Concerns Editor: John Scranton Harris.
