Int’l Festival photos, page 10

The Davidsonian

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, September 15, 1988

Volume LXXX, Number 4

A worker at the new dormitory site talks to a reporter. His identity has been carefully concealed by Davidsonian artists.

On the job: what do the workers say?

By DAVID SCOTT

Hauling, shoveling, cursing, and hoping you look busy enough to keep the boss-man off your back. These are all parts
of a typical working man’s day. In the speculation surrounding all the construction going on at Davidson, the plight of
the actual workers has been largely ignored. These are the men who really know what’s going on from the inside,
and their comments to this Davidsonian reporter raised some interesting questions.

Reporter to a carpenter working on the new dorms: “So, do you think these dorms are going to be ready
by the new completion dates?”

Carpenter: “I don’t know, when are they?”

Reporter: “Well, for this one here, September 29.”

Carpenter: “Ain’t no way in hell.”

That’s pretty definitive, folks. I hope you seniors are enjoying the rough life down at the Holiday Inn. They don’t
even get HBO.

Now don’t fret too much, all you who care. This carpenter was quite the jovial type and this reporter is
leaving open the possibility that he was pulling my ripcord, so to speak. To him, it all didn’t seem to
matter too much. The hassle, the overtime, the pressure. It’s just another job.

I asked this carpenter if he thought the rush to meet the closing deadlines was putting undue emphasis on speed,
resulting in hurried work and possibly mistakes.

“Mess it up, do it again,” he replied while reaching into the cab of his pick-up for a quick can
of spam to break up the monotony of the day. He had to get back to his job.

Other workers viewed the situation a bit differently. An electrical sub-contractor who hadn’t been in the business very long showed
more concern over the rapid pace on the work site. He

See WORKERS, page 4

Phone system update: changes coming

By MARIA DOUGLAS

Students are experiencing some problems adapting to the new SouthernNet/Southern Bell ESSX phone system, adopted ostensibly to provide more convenient
service to the Davidson College community.

Bob Stephenson, Director of Administrative Services, said they are doing everything they can to address student concerns and iron out
wrinkles in the system.

“We’re investigating a means of providing collect and credit card service,” Stephenson said. Stephenson met with SouthernNet representatives last week
to discuss the possibility of adding those services to our current system. He is waiting to hear from the representatives
on their findings.

Major complaints include not being able to make credit card or collect calls because there is no access to an
AT&T operator. A shortage of outgoing long distance lines during peak hours has also upset many students.

SouthernNet is the long-distance carrier now used by the college. ESSX is the switching system operated by Southern Bell. The
two systems are separate.

Stephenson said that when the college was shopping for a long distance carrier, the phone companies used a formula to
determine how many lines were necessary to provide standard service. SouthernNet recommended one T1 circuit, equaling 24 lines.

“The assumptions didn’t work out,” Stephenson said. Most problems occur during peak “traffic hours” between 9 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
and between 10 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.

“We definitely will be ordering more lines,” Stephenson said. “SouthernNet has assured us they will expedite an order for us.”

Stephenson said despite the problems, overall response has been favorable. Many students commented, “Overall, I think it’s worse,” said junior
Katherine Kraemer. “It doesn’t offer as many pluses.” Kraemer said she thinks the system benefits the administration more than the
students. “If they work out the problems, that’s fine with me.”

Stephenson said the main reason was to provide a service to the students. Now students don’t have to worry about
getting phone service at the beginning of school because it is automatically provided.

Students can dial other students on campus with four digits and reach administrative and faculty offices without having to go
through the switchboard.

Also under investigation is the addition of long distance lines. Stephenson said they will be looking at whether it is
more expensive to add single lines or installing another T1 circuit to handle the load.

The system does benefit the administration in that calls do not have to be routed through the switchboard, saving time
and expense. He explained that the system is the result of a study done last winter to determine if the
college was better off using its own “switch” or using part of Southern Bell’s big “switch.” The study advocated using
part of Southern Bell’s system for several reasons.

See PHONES, page 4

News: Epic news from Beyond Epic Davidson by Beth Drummond and Ed Powell. Page 3

Features: Bob the Carrot & Murf, with Epic interview by Hap Bryant with Christopher B. “Kit” Morris. Page 7

Sports: Epic nudity that we might as well say now was Clipped from the 1961 Quips & Cranks. Page 11

Non-Profit Organization U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, N.C. 28036
