Monday, November 7, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Three things about Davidson had been kept inviolate since its founding: its name, its location, and the fact that it
enrolled only male students. Danger threatened the first two of these in the 1880s, and there was even talk about
co-education threatening the third. It may have been only student talk, as when the Davidson Monthly editorialized on the horrors
that lay in wait for both sexes on a coeducational campus. The young women’s constitutions would not be “able to
bear the mental strain and fatigue.” Furthermore, “It has been proved that among educated women a great many of the
invalids can trace their decline of health to the time when they were in college.” The male students would find
their subjects bereft of many topics “unfit for a joint study by the two sexes.... For instance, our classics would
have to be pruned” and equally without foundation, but the students enjoyed arguing the question, some feeling that in such
a small town... we must necessarily fall into careless habits of speech and dress, we necessarily lose sight of the
little amenities of social life that denote the true gentleman.”

Others boosted Davidson’s advantages, “a magnificent building, well-furnished society halls, a beautiful campus, pure water, good society,” and all this
in “a village free from temptations and enjoying the advantages of a city as far as church, mail, telegraph, and
railroads are concerned.”

The threat to the college’s name was more serious. “Davidson” told people nothing about denominational ties, and stressing denominational ties
was very much in the minds of the trustees in early 1885 as they set about raising money from Presbyterian
churches. In February, the executive committee planned “to consider the propriety of changing the name of Davidson College” and the
new charter, ratified on March 4, 1885, specifically gave to the trustees the right to change Davidson’s name if they
wished. In June, the executive committee suggested that the board “consider whether it would not more favorably impress the general
public if the name were changed to ‘The South Atlantic Presbyterian University.’” The trustees declined to make the change, giving
no reason, and Davidson survived the nineteenth century with name, place, and sex unchanged.

As if the Depression and football were not enough, Dr. Lingle also had to contend with dancing. At a Presbyterian
college in the 1930s, dancing was still an emotional issue on which honorable men could disagree, and did. Davidson’s trustees,
citing a General Assembly statement that dancing was “not a wholesome form of pleasure for Christian people to engage in,”
recognized the “impropriety” of allowing the students to ignore this viewpoint, and had drawn up a resolution as far back
as May 1918 reminding fraternity members “with great kindness, and yet with great earnestness that the Board of Trustees cannot
approve of dancing on the Campus or in connection with the College in any way....”

It is easy to imagine their chagrin upon seeing the front page of the Davidsonian for March 19, 1919, with
its long article on the beautiful and elaborate St. Cecilia Club dance given in Charlotte on March 10, featuring “spot-light
effect waltzes” and jazz pieces. The faculty promptly adopted new regulations noting that Davidson was an “instrument of the Presbyterian
Church” and “subject to the rules and regulations of the Church Court,” and that forthwith “the existence of any organization
in the College whose avowed purpose is to promote dancing is forbidden.” Goodbye to the St. Cecilia Club, whose “flagrant
violation of these rules during the recent past has brought discredit upon the College in theHere is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Q could forbid dances on campus, but could not stop Davidson students from attending them in Charlotte. Even sending a
chaplain to these dances to guard against drinking was out of the question, since this would mean official recognition of
"a practice which the Church and trustees condemn." In other words, Davidson could not prevent off-campus dancing and could not
officially admit it was happening, in the eyes of its constituency.

Dr. Martin wryly suggested to the trustees in his 1928 report that the difficulty, of course, was not that all
the trustees or faculty members necessarily thought dancing was immoral, but that many members of the supporting presbyteries did. A
council of Concord Presbytery on September 17, 1919, affirmed the presbytery's "condemnation of the dances of today as a moral
and spiritual evil," and praised Davidson's trustees "for the effectual prohibition of this sin." As President Martin saw, however, the
prohibition was easier to proclaim than enforce. The college's reluctance to punish drinking off-campus has come about from the similar
attitude of the college toward dancing, that is, the tacit approval of a disapproved activity as long as it was
not happening on campus.

A History of Davidson College is published by Briarpatch Press of Davidson.

---

LET'S TALK ABOUT THE IMPORTS ISSUE

HEY, WHEN IT COMES TO QUEENS GIRLS, WE LOVE 'EM ALL...

THAT'S RIGHT, WE LIKE FREE TRADE

NOT US, WE'D LIKE TO SEE QUOTAS

PARDON THE EXPRESSION BUT...

THE FIRST SHIPMENTS FROM GREECE...

C'MON CAL, YOU'RE A CARD-CARRYING MEMBER OF CARLETON PRITCHARD'S CAPITALIST EMPIRE - YOU TALK BIG ABOUT A BMW IN EVERY
DRIVEWAY AND A CARROT IN EVERY POT, BUT...

BOB, CARLETON TURNS A PROFIT. I LIKE PROFIT. SNAKE AND I HAVE A PLAN FOR FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY.

THE ONLY LOW-INCOME HOUSING YOU'VE BUILT ARE SHANTIES, BOB. I WENT TO A SOUP KITCHEN AND I TALKED TO THOSE
PEOPLE...

BOB, YOU'VE BEEN ACCUSED OF BEING SOFT ON CRIME. WHAT DO YOU INTEND TO DO ABOUT THE RECENT EPIDEMIC OF
CRIME WHICH HAS CLAIMED TWO BUNDLES FROM...

DON'T EVEN WEAR CLOTHES. I'LL BET...

---

FROM HABITAT, page 4

...because you get to see, slowly but surely, a project develop and you know that at the end of your
work there's going to be a family that's going to be able to live in the house and be part
of the community. I really don't see any downside. It's a very positive project."

Volunteers and the homeowners perform virtually all of the necessary tasks, such as the recent installation of a community sewer
system. According to Randy Kincaid, a board member and co-founder who deals primarily with the project's finances, "Not only have
we built a house which will benefit the family directly, but it's been a wonderful exercise in community building to
bring together students and townspeople, both town and gown kinds of people, in an endeavor that all of us can
get behind. I think it's really been marvelous." He adds, "It's nice to have continuing volunteers rather than one-shot kinds
of people so the people can bring back the skills that they learned. Money is hard to raise and it's
slow. I would like to think that the students might even get involved, for example, in raising money."

Patrick Osborne, who is in charge of construction and performs what he calls "quality control," says he notices a lot
of conversation going on between people while they work. "It's a relaxing time to get to know different people really
well in a working environment. I think it's good for the community, and it's real good for the college faculty
because they all seem to know each other pretty well and all (are) friends when they come over here. They
get to talk about college things and...

---

MORE OMITAT, page 6
