Dear Editor,

Is Sexist? Then how come there aren't more females in the comic? When there are, they are usually evil, whining
wenches. What an offense!
- Concerned Lower Reader

Letters and complaints like this have stacked up in the offices of the Vavipsovanll. It seems Beg We Chrrot has
crossed the line of good taste once too often.

JAN? I venture to say that this week's cartoon will not toe the cinema line. It will offend some people
and could upset them. The material lacks any shred of humor (as if it ever existed!).

Dear Editor,

How are you? How about you? Wow! How many courage administrators do you have today? Not the Dean of Students,
just fine boys. Say, we haven't seen any honor code violations, have you? Oh good, just making sure.

Fake letter to a token female cartoon character: Would you like to accompany us to the cinema? Token female cartoon
character: What movie is it that we choose? Of course, I would be honored. Swipe! I haven't heard of that
one. Is that Michael J. Fox's new movie, Bop? Bin? Bop? What has happened to Bop? Is he just trying
to boost his ratings? It looks like Bop has been kidnapped! Stay tuned for further developments. One can only fear
the worst.

This is your fault, I know it is.

Seven Samurai teach villagers the value of self-reliance
By FRANK LORD

The Seven Samurai. Directed by Akira Kurosawa. Starring Toshiro Mifune and Takashi Shimura. 1954. Shows in Love Auditorium at 8
PM on Saturday 4/9 and Tuesday 4/12. Admission is $1.50.

Eastern films in general and Japanese films in specific do not get much exposure in this area, which is sad
because there are many great pieces of cinematic art that have come out of Japan. Of the great Japanese directors,
Akira Kurosawa is perhaps the most universally admired. His career has spanned many years and included such masterpieces as Ran
- his most recent film - and this week's Cinema Classics offering: The Seven Samurai.

Set in Medieval Japan, The Seven Samurai is the story of a small village of farmers who discover that a
group of brigands have decided to come and steal all their food as soon as their crops are harvested. Convinced
that they are unable to defend themselves, the townspeople set out to find a group of Samurai to defend their
town from the attackers. The first part of the film is the story of their attempts to find Samurai who
will be willing to risk their lives for the town’s defense without the benefit of any kind of reward. Because
the town is a small farming community, they have great difficulty in finding the necessary men. However, after many attempts,
they do finally succeed. The second part of the film takes place in...the village as the crops are harvested and
the Samurai prepare for the defense of the town against the brigands. The final, most spectacular part of the film
is the battle that pits the townspeople and the Seven Samurai against the invading brigands. The basic theme of the
film is one of self-reliance. In the beginning of the film, the townspeople see the brigands and Samurai in general
in the same category as catastrophes of weather and disease. That is to say that they feel helpless in the
face of events and forces that seem to be beyond their control. They, therefore, seek aid in the form of
an equally powerful force - the seven samurai. Gradually, over the course of the film, they find that they are
not so helpless as they once thought and slowly learn to fend for themselves.

Like many great films, the basic narrative of the Seven Samurai is only half of what makes it a great
film. The technical structure of the film is at least as interesting as its plot. Though, by the time the
Seven Samurai was made, the revolution in the use of montage - best exemplified in Sergei Eisenstein’s film The Battleship
Potemkin of 1925 - and in the use of deep focus cinematography - accomplished by Orson Welles in his landmark
film Citizen Kane of 1941 - had already passed. Kurosawa uses these developments to make a visually stunning epic. The
montage of the final battle scene - which encompasses almost a third of the entire film - leaves you riveted
to your seat, carries you along, and makes you feel the frenzy of the battle. By contrasting characters through their
placement within the frame using deep focus, Kurosawa makes eloquent comparisons between their views, emotions, and backgrounds that make the
various conflicts within the film all the more tangible.

Ultimately, whether you choose to view the film from the point of view of the narrative or from a technical
vantage point or, perhaps ideally, from a viewpoint that combines the two, The Seven Samurai is a thoroughly enjoyable cinematic
experience. Go; watch; and be amazed.

JARMON, from previous page

Before coming to Davidson, Jarmon had traveled extensively in Europe, his only objectives being to travel, to play music, and
to write. The experience taught him more about supporting himself than about anything else, but when he became a student
again, the intuition he’d trusted and the challenge of exploring he’d accepted in that year would not be caught between
the pages of his new textbooks. He was looking for a creative outlet, and the medium he discovered was visual
art.

“There’s no way I could hope to have done anything differently. . . . it has been a very positive
learning and growth experience. And the bottom line is that the art department has provided that experience for me,” he
said.

HEALTH, from page 3

Thanks for writing!
—Confidential Health—
Please send your questions and comments to:
Confidential Health
The College Infirmary
Davidson, NC 28036

Infirmary to find out everything you always wanted to know about mono but were afraid to ask!
