Wednesday, February 3, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BROADCAST, from page 5

$$
smile on his tilted face. Then, without changing expression, he looks down at his shoes, and then off into the horizon. His habitual gestures, although demonstrating all the cuteness of a button, are fast becoming stale.

Aaron Altman is often the comic element. As a child prodigy, graduating valedictorian from his high school in Boston at the age of fifteen, he earns the disrespect of his fellow graduates by forgiving them for their hatred of him. As a mature reporter in Washington, he takes the news business seriously. He is a fluent linguist, which helps him considerably when on assignment in foreign countries. He researches his work thoroughly, yet consistently writes news copy which is “a real pleasure to read.” With his fellow newscasters he enjoys posing hypothetical situations involving matters of ethics, the journalistic version of “What if?” He possesses all the natural ability that Tom Grunick lacks, yet he can never hope to get a break, the likes of which constantly materialize for Tom. He can’t even get a break with Jane because of Tom’s interference. Due to his high moral fiber (no, that is not a new cereal) he cannot accommodate Tom's attitude of trying to “sell a little,” and so loses his chances of success and happiness in Washington. If Albert Brooks isn’t the stuck-up sticky beat he plays in Broadcast News, he performed admirably, and I hope to see more of him soon.

Jane Craig was raised in Atlanta, where she first developed her writing talents and her manic-depressive tendencies. At the station she keeps the show running with her sheer vitality and determination, blossoming under pressure. But in her moments of quiet solitude she breaks down and wails as an outlet for her pent-up anxieties. Her dearest friend is Aaron, with whom she reports on location, with whom she shares her secrets, with whom she fights against ignorant, uninformed reporting. Despite all his warnings she falls in love, or more likely, in lust with the newcomer, who couldn’t give a lick about the news beyond how he looks in front of the cameras.

Her struggle to maintain her ideals in the face of her affections places her in a position in which she must choose one man or the other. Like Wordsworth’s Michael, she looks adversity in the eye and carries on. Holly Hunter, fresh from her role in Raising Arizona, proves that she can act seriously as well as comically.

I liked it, I really, really liked it.

I don’t understand why it received such a horde of Oscar nominations. Had it been about any other form of journalism the critics would not have loved it so dearly. But it touched upon an area and a livelihood which affects many of those most influential in the movie industry; thus the plethora of accolades. Nonetheless, I thought Broadcast News earned one or two nominations. I cannot report on the readings of the HPS meter because either the batteries ran down or there weren’t enough vulgar actions to warrant its working. But I can offer my personal opinion, and suggest that you see Broadcast News before it vacates Charlotte theaters.