Features

CROP Walk: CROP offers students a chance to actively fight world hunger

By PREM MANJOORAN

College students, faculty, staff, townspeople, and the community churches will meet at 2 p.m. on Sunday, October 23, for the
annual CROP Walk in an effort to raise money to help fight the world hunger problem. The 10k (6.2 mile)
walk through the town will be manned with volunteers to distribute drinks at the five or six rest stops along
the way. McDonald’s will sponsor refreshments. Hall counselors, RAs, eating houses, and fraternities are distributing sponsor sheets in competition for
the largest participation in this event. Individuals obtain pledges from sponsors which will go to the Church World Service (CWS)
relief funds.

“Tomorrow begins today,” states the CROP Walk flyer. CWS has been devoted for 40 years to the task of converting
today’s promises into a happier, “fuller” tomorrow. Affiliated with the CWS, the Davidson Chapter of CROP is still in its
developing stages. Not only is it relatively unknown and unpublicized on campus, but its activities are fairly limited.

As joint coordinator Arindam Bhattacharjee states, “We are self-sufficient—we have to be! Our limited resources must necessarily mean that our
projects be low key.” Although small, CROP is a group which meets regularly every Thursday at 1 p.m. to host
a lunch consisting of a simple, yet wholesome meal of cornbread, rice, and beans for a $1 donation. This lunch
serves the dual purpose of CROP Lunch by reminding participants of the plight of many around the world. Today, one
billion people are chronically hungry. In fact, twenty-four people die each minute of starvation.

Blue Velvet’s complexity warrants two viewings

By LEE BUSHKELL

To try and describe the film Blue Velvet in a paragraph or two would change the viewer’s perceptions when he
or she saw it. To review Blue Velvet presents the reviewer with a problem, for it is unusual to see
a film this deep in meaning and symbolism. On the surface, Blue Velvet is a movie about a male college
student who gets sucked into a web of murder, sadism, and pain, but more than that, it is a dark,
sensual film. Young Jeffrey (Kyle McLachlan) plays a college student who naively believes he could solve a mystery on his
own.

The movie starts off peacefully, with shots of flowers in front of white picket fences, waving firemen, and old men
watering lawns. The perversity of the movie is soon revealed, however, as the old man suffers a stroke and is
taken to the hospital. Scenes like these indicate that picturesque little Lumbertown (where the radio station is WOOD) is not
all it seems. The sickness in this film runs rampant, and the main characters, Jeffrey and Dorothy Valens (Isabella Rossellini)
engage in a sadist/masochistic relationship after she catches him hiding in her closet. The relationship twists with the addition of
Frank (Dennis Hopper), who rapes and beats Dorothy while calling her “Mommy.”

After visiting several times, Jeffrey falls in love with Dorothy and becomes determined to find her husband and son, whom
Frank has kidnapped. Following him, Jeffrey discovers more about Frank’s life, but he gets caught. Frank takes him on a
“joy ride,” during which he is kissed and beaten by him. After this incident, Jeffrey takes his story to the
police and Frank’s gang is captured. In a tension-filled climax, Jeffrey kills Frank from the same closet in which the
whole story began.

Blue Velvet is full of symbolism. A powerful symbol is the continued up and down images in the movie. Almost
the entire film is shot from a slightly raised or lowered view, giving the viewer a good and bad look;
watch for it. The allusions to climbing are also strong, and there is a powerful scene of a hooker climbing
atop a car to listen to music and escape the horror of Jeffrey being beaten by Frank. Music also acts
as a significant element in the film.As a strong symbol, Dorothy, a club singer, sings “Blue Velvet” to Frank, bringing
him to tears. In the film, music is full of both anger and release, especially to Frank. The song “Blue
Velvet” soothes Frank, yet others move him to violence, and the old songs are always, almost falsely, played in the
background. The background music seems more a character than a mode of expressing mood because of its large role in
the movie. The music acts as a release in the scenes of the hooker on top of the car and
Frank in the club. I highly recommend this film because it is a feast for the mind. I was dissecting
parts of the movie long after viewing it. There are films which should be seen, if only for the experience.
Blue Velvet is one of these, and multiple viewings will only heighten the awareness and enjoyment. Blue Velvet will be
shown Friday at 9:45 following A Clockwork Orange which will begin at 7:30. Don’t miss this psychological, psychedelic double feature
in the 900 ROOM.

Unfortunately, most of us are not hungry. Davidson CROP is trying to make a difference. But as joint hunger-related diseases.
“There are a lot of coordinator Nusrat Ali Khan notes, “There seems to be a general lack of concern among
the students. We’ve emphasized the issue too much, or people just don’t care or have the time.” On the brighter
side, however, freshmen are getting involved. Professor of religion David Kaylor is entirely unabashed in his support of the walk.
“It represents not just the concern of a few committed individuals who strive to raise money for the starving; it
helps focus the attention of the rest of the community on a nebulous, grey area that often tends to be
overlooked,” he said. CROP provides students with an opportunity to actively involve themselves in a humanitarian cause and provide tangible
evidence of their concern. As sophomore Meredith Gooding puts it, “CROP Walk and CROP Lunch will unify the students with
local, national, and global efforts to augment relief measures while creating an understanding of the devastating world hunger situation.” For
more information on how to get involved, contact coordinators Arindam Bhattacharjee at -6022 or Nusrat Ali Khan at -6236.

Straight Jacket Special both films for $2.00. Just when you thought there wasn’t enough sex and violence in your life,
Cinema Classics and Stanley Kubrick come to the rescue with this week's feature presentation A Clockwork Orange. If you go
to this one and manage to stay through the second half of the double feature - Blue Velvet - then
you'll probably want to spend the rest of your life out in a field picking daisies just to avoid doing
any sort of violence to your fellow man which is, of course, the point to both films. Enjoy. A Clockwork
Orange starts at 7:30 PM. Admission is $1.50. Blue Velvet begins at 9:45 PM. Admission is $1.00. If you're feeling
pressed for cash or you just want to see both films try our Straight Jacket Special both films for $2.00.

A little more than eight ways to be happy with the roomie
By BETHANY M. DEPTUCH

Now that you’ve been back at Davidson for half a semester, you may have found that your living arrangement has
lost some of its excitement. The roommate who was so lovingly chosen (by either the housing office, the Meyer’s-Briggs test,
or yourself), is now a different person. All the qualities you had in common are gone and in their place,
you are left with someone who plots to lock you out of the room after you take a shower. Things
about your roommate that were hardly noticeable in the first few weeks now grate on your nerves. Your roommate’s ugly
blue slippers are no longer funny, but rather repulsive. Around 2 a.m., your roommate always mumbles about her love life
in her sleep. You used to strain to

See ROOMIE, page 5
