5 Thursday, September 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEW DAVIDSON FACULTY, CONTINUED

Julia Eichelberger, English

For Julia Eichelberger, a new professor in the English department, Davidson College is not an unfamiliar place. She earned her own B.A. in English at Davidson and, in addition, can boast of seven family members who are Davidson alumni. An eighth is currently enrolled as a senior. After her graduation from Davidson in 1981, Eichelberger taught English at a private high school for two years. She then undertook graduate studies at UNC-Chapel Hill and is currently working towards her Ph.D.

At Chapel Hill, Eichelberger taught beginning composition to freshmen. “The classes here are smaller and I sit closer to the students--so I can see when they fall asleep,” she said. In all seriousness, she added, “I find Davidson students more responsive than UNC students.” Noting changes that have occurred since her first Davidson experience, Eichelberger laughed, “There’s a lot more brick on campus.” She also said, “When I was here, we used to go out and get ice cream for thrills.”

Billy Hassell, Art

Billy Hassell plans to spend a year with the Davidson Art Department while Herb Jackson is on sabbatical. Originally from Dallas, Texas, Hassell earned his BFA from the University of Notre Dame and his MFA from the University of Massachusetts. Hassell has taught art on and off since college, but decided early in his career that he wanted to do more than teach. He says the best thing he ever did for his career was his decision to “quit his job and work full-time” on his art. His choice paid off. His shows have appeared across the country--most recently in Dallas, El Paso, and New York with a group showing at the Hudson River Museum this fall. Last year Hassell was extremely busy with four one-person shows. This year, he decided to “take a break from the commercial world...and do something different.” Hassell enjoys a “balance of teaching and art” and seems to move easily from one to another. Next year, Hassell will have one-person shows in both Houston and New York. For those who will not be able to attend, there will be a show of Hassell’s works in the Chambers Gallery in March.

Bethany Deptuch
John Hutchinson

Yvonne Kendall, Music

How much do you know about contemporary flute music and 16th-century dance and dance music? If you’re interested in learning more, consult professor Yvonne Kendall in the music department. While the above topics are her specialties, Kendall’s past experience covers a wide range. She received her B.S. from Austin Peay State University in Clarksville, TN; her Masters of Music -- flute from New England Conservatory, Boston; and her Doctor of Musical Arts -- Early music/flute from Stanford University. But Kendall’s interests are not confined to music alone. She loves gourmet cooking, mystery novels, and...ALF!

Jennifer Hoffman

Dale Long, Physics

This year could be your first and last chance to take a class at Davidson from visiting professor Dale Long. He is on leave this year from Virginia Polytechnic Institute where he has been on the faculty for about 20 years. Those who tremble at the mere mention of the word physics should appreciate Long’s work especially. He has developed programs for the enhancement of high school physics teaching. Currently, Long has...A proposal is pending with the National Science Foundation for similar future programs.

Jennifer Hoffman:
The Ansel Adams print, “Examples,” pictures massive boulders in front of a striking mountain peak. The stark black and white photograph provides a striking contrast to the dorm-like clutter of English professor David Long’s office. A box of Sun Maid raisins rests precariously on the desktop, while boxes of yet unopened books litter the room. “I’m still getting my act together,” Long said somewhat sheepishly.

Long, a new addition to the English faculty, attended Dartmouth College from 1973 to 1977. Afterwards, he taught at several northern schools. He then spent seven years at Stanford teaching and attending graduate school. “The Californian lifestyle is very attractive, almost dangerously so,” commented Long. However, a longing “to go back East” seized him, and after finishing his dissertation this past summer, he “arrived at Davidson exactly five minutes before the first orientation meeting.”

Long teaches Freshmen Composition 101 and Nineteenth Century American Fiction 381. He has found Davidson students to be “of the caring sort” and “eager to learn.” Davidson students are “not very different from Stanford (students),” Long observed. This professor finds the semester system to be extremely profitable. “The pacing gives students time to catch up...we’re not rushed.”

And how is Long in class? A student in Long’s freshman composition class describes him as follows: “He is very interested in his students...He makes sure they understand what he wants. While strict on attendance, he dishes out a moderate workload. However, he is flexible concerning extensions. He is a humorous guy...he involves the students. He doesn’t lecture at them.”

Zoran Kuzmanovich, English:
Surprises never cease here at Davidson, and perhaps the most recent (and pleasant) surprise takes the form of our new English professor, Zoran Kuzmanovich. A Yugoslavian native, Kuzmanovich comes to us most recently from Beloit College, Wisconsin. From Europe to Davidson, Kuzmanovich has made quite a switch, but he feels that in our town he can settle down in a pleasant neighborly fashion. After all, says Kuzmanovich with a smile, “this is the only place where my neighbors feel comfortable walking in and borrowing my television set, and I feel almost as comfortable asking to borrow their air conditioner, rototiller, or lawn mower.”

Kuzmanovich’s sense of humor extends into a quite inventive side of the man. For example, a list of his eccentric hobbies includes a passion for building adult tricycles, composing chess problems, and building miniature soccer fields in his backyard. At the same time, Kuzmanovich’s genius has serious applications. When faced with the inability to type some Russian words on a computer, Kuzmanovich decided to write his own word processor.

Ready to stay and eager to work, Kuzmanovich is full of plans for his Davidson classes. Coming up spring term, he will be offering a film course which will look at how fictional narrative becomes a cinematic one, along with a touch of film history, filmmaking, and directing. A longer look involves a possible critical theory class, as well as the integration of audiovisual use and computer instruction in all regular classes. Welcome, Zoran!

Jennifer Bean:
Long specializes not only in physics but also in teaching physics. His book, "The Physics Around You," is “a conceptual level college physics textbook that focuses on the physics around you.”