---

Thursday, October 20, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Columnist Ellen Goodman speaks Monday

Ellen Goodman, a columnist for the Boston Globe, will speak at 8:00 p.m. on Monday, October 24. Her address is entitled “A Matter of Values.”

Goodman says she is able to “follow, like a scorekeeper, the conflicts and ambivalences of our lives.”

Goodman has written a book on social change called Turning Points, and many of her columns have been published in collections including Close to Home and At Large. She has received several awards including the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished commentary, New England Women’s Press Association Woman of the Year, and the American Society of Newspaper Editors Distinguished Writing Award.

Gunmen rob Lotus

Gunmen armed with pistols, rifles, and possibly automatic weapons robbed the Lotus Chinese restaurant in Mooresville at 9:45 p.m. on October 6, 1988. The gunmen, described by witnesses as “oriental,” ordered the few customers present into one room and demanded their money and jewelry.

The men then forced the manager to open the cash register and took the money inside. Before leaving the restaurant, the men directed the customers into a room.

The Iredell County Sheriff’s Department, working with the State Bureau of Investigation, has failed to turn up any leads on the crime.

International Committee donates $400 to Habitat

This year’s International Festival to benefit Habitat for Humanity was able to raise $400 by selling t-shirts and services. The services consisted of writing names in foreign languages, selling foods, and selling custom dresses. The $400 check was presented to Service Coordinator Carolyn Craig by International Committee Chairman Ismat Husain on behalf of all international students.

Craig said, “Such a gift is particularly meaningful because the initiative came from the students and because they chose to give of themselves by investing their time and energy.”

TREES, from page 1

The two trees that were destroyed cost between $60 and $75 apiece, a fraction of the cost of the lampposts that were similarly destroyed last year. As Morris pointed out, however, the trees represented the college’s effort to introduce “unusual and different cultivars” and were for the enjoyment of everyone. “It is ridiculous to choose for different characteristics if people choose to ruin them,” he said.

ELVIS SIGHTED IN

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, books, and fees paid in full. Just send in this coupon and we'll send you full details on the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program.

You could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the Navy. You'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as a commissioned officer in the Reserves.

After graduation, you'll serve three years or more—depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive—as a respected Armed Forces physician. You'll also get excellent pay, regular hours, great benefits, and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical technology.

If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice—and want to cut the expense of medical school—send for more information today.

Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship can help cut my medical school expenses. I meet the age requirements noted below and am under no obligation.

Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865, Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102

I am interested in:  
Navy: 21-34 years of age  
Army: 21-32 years of age  
Air Force: 21-30 years of age

Name:  
Address:  
City, State, ZIP:  
Phone:  
Social Security No.:  
Field of Study:  
Graduation Date:  
Male/Female:

The information you voluntarily provide will be used for recruiting purposes. The more complete it is, the better we can respond to your request. 10 USC 503 establishes the program.

Study Abroad

LONDON

SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM  
ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT  
BRITISH FACULTY

Ithaca College, Ithaca, New York 14850  
607-274-3306