Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

td: from: the studio art room

The game of life is quicker than the wink of an eye.

The game of love is just hello & goodbye until

could love we meet again.

Love you as well and strong as fully human love.

What is essential is still held in common.

Puddle ashamed by a birdbath.

And thou art not unlike

You people are Sooooo Deep!!!

Technical Difficulties

on. -with my jambox was another challenge. The radio was fine, the cassette player regularly drove me to utter despair.
Its favorite trick was what I called “munching lyrics.” For example, if a tape of the national anthem was played
in my box, it would sound like “OH, SAY CAN YOU _ SEEEEeceer- DAWN’S EARLY LIGHT...” Bearing my box like
the faithful carry their sick to Lourdes, I made countless treks to the repair shop, hoping for a miraculous healing.
Cleaning the heads, replacing the motor; it was all in vain. One day, the player finally stopped working altogether. Wearily,
I acknowledged my defeat and bought a new box (which, thankfully, seems fine so far).

My arch-enemy, however, is the computer, the king of high-tech torment. Like the way Lucy always talks Charlie Brown into
trying just once more to kick that football, the computer first lulls me into a false sense of security. During
this all-too-brief honeymoon period, everything works and I chide myself for being so paranoid and defensive. Then, like Lucy jerking
away the football, the computer zaps me. Erased term papers, printer jams, disappearing cursors—it doesn’t matter. Ultimately, the computer’s frightening
power to destroy minds is well documented in other cases as well. I once read a newspaper article entitled, “‘Computer
Syndrome’ Is a Psychosis for Our Hi-Tech Times.” The victim, an eleven-year-old Danish boy, spent so much time on the
computer that he became unable to distinguish real life from computer programs. This poor kid would wake up in the
middle of the night thinking “Line 10: go to bathroom; run next!” Clearly, then, preventing a computer from driving one
mad is indeed a formidable challenge.

Throughout my lifetime, I have been mercilessly persecuted by machines. The secret to surviving these attacks on my sanity is
maintaining a sense of humor and knowing when to give in. Come to think of it, maybe I’ve imagined all
this. I think I’ll go type this up on the computer. After all, I’m probably just being paranoid...

--Janet Sanford, ‘92.

Freshmen Writing Contest

Blue Ribbon Winner

No:

For a Moment’s Peace

I thought I knew just where I was going But my thought was false, untrue

And led me onward to a new place Down a path I’d never traveled.

It was funny to experience Yet I got scared with each step I took. I was going deeper and deeper
into the soul of the wind.

The path behind me just faded in the distance.

I walked alone with nothing to guide me Except the panic in my heart of being trapped forever. I wondered
if I’d ever see the sunlight again Or would shadows now haunt my life.

But then I came to a clearing. The sunlight poured down onto a grassy knoll. I sat and rested, absorbing
it all, For who knew how long it would last.

--Betsy Boyd, ’92

Maria Rey, ‘99

---
