Tuesday, December 13, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

January Chill Chasers blow into town next month

Registration for community workshops will be December 13 from 2-4 p.m. at the Union ticket office. January Chill Chasers will begin Monday, January 16 and are open to Davidson students, faculty and staff, and the greater Lake Norman community. From photography to breadbaking, the workshops provide a good mingling of town and gown with instructors from both on- and off-campus. All workshops are free except where a fee is necessary to cover the cost of materials. Registration is $1. For more information call the Union.

The idea for the winter workshop series originated at the Davidson College Visitors Center, which is under new management with coordinator Amy Burkesmith. This year the Visitors Center has become more involved than ever in town activities.

The only student-instructed workshop in the series will be senior Jay Barron’s Ladspeak: Intro to College Lingo, but 1988 graduate Charles Tambiah will teach sessions on Nature/Wildlife Photography. Several faculty/staff members are offering their services. Director of athletics Kit Morris will teach Beginning Harmonica, and College Relations news editor Bill Giduz will sponsor a session on Beginning Juggling.

John Cunningham, director of Wills and Trusts, will offer tips on Bike Repair; psychology professor Ed Palmer will give a Car Haters’ Survival Guide on Basic Car Maintenance; and Gerald Hutchinson, director of Davidson Outdoors, will teach the hands-on course, Massage: Theory and Practice.

Budding gardeners may learn about the Principles of Horticulture from grounds superintendent Irvin Brawley. Music professor Yvonne Kendall will teach New Music with an Eastern Flavor, while Union program coordinator Ruth Pittard will cook for her Basic Breadbaking class. Patty Levering, assistant director of the Love of Learning program, will talk about Listening to God from a Quaker’s perspective. Bonnie McAlister, coordinator of the leadership and academic enrichment program and theater/speech lecturer, will instruct a class on Conflict Resolution.

Other workshops include a foot-stomping clogging class, Missy Kuykendall’s tips on assertive communication, a storytelling session, and the “professional” opinion on avoiding panic by planning.

Go on a mission from God this weekend in the 900 Room and see The Blues Brothers, starring John Belushi, Dan Aykroyd, and Carrie Fisher. This film graced our campus as recently as last year, and we ran a really good review then, but don’t have space this week to do it again. But Tim thought it was great. Grab them dark sunglasses and be there at 8 p.m. Saturday.

Opera singer to be: gn oF

Music Series’ new year

Baritone Christopher Trakas of the Metropolitan Opera will perform at Davidson on January 12. The concert is sponsored by the Office of the President and the Union Chamber Music Series and is free. It will begin at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Last season Trakas sang the role of Harlekin in Strauss’ Ariadne auf Naxos at the Metropolitan Opera. Now in his third and final year of the MET’s Young Artist Development Program, Trakas made his house debut in 1988.

THE ADVENTURES OF BEN CARROT

His Life and Message For The World

by Kevin Dow Fous with help from Mods and Huey Morris.

This is a picture of my sister, Ashley...

She is an artist. This week’s cartoon is dedicated to her because this is her Christmas present from me. —KP

P.S. Don’t call me cheap.

It’s late at night and from the dense fog steps Ben Carrot and his evil Republican alter-ego...

“What’s wrong, sorry? You’re looking a bit yellow! I’m going to peel you alive?”

Grocery Store’s

Robert the Banana, a story 7 years at last!

“Yeah, you and what produce department?”

In closer confrontation, two foes face the interior...

Suddenly, to everyone’s surprise, a group of trustees join out of the darkness and surround Robert.

“Bring it on, face it, Ben. You’re home. The voters gave me a mandate to use fresh ideas.”

Insecure plastic vegetable trying to compensate for a small stain.

“Our king’s you are no longer a banana. Now you are a kiwi fruit.”

“Okay king, but we’ve changed the rules. We’re as bent as the kiwi fruit.”

As quickly as they had come, they disappear.

Meanwhile...in the ward of the prayer infirmary:

“Oh my God, this is not...”

“Shut up, what ya... This is the worst thing that has ever happened to me. I’ve been betrayed!”

“Carrot, but you said I could be a banana for one more year.”

“But we lied. Davidson taught you that money is more important than honor.”