Dr. Christian on salaries, page 11
Volume LXXIX, Number 4
The Davidsonian
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Wednesday, April 13, 1988

Class of ’92 to be larger, increase number of women

By MARIA DOUGLAS

The Trustee Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid has adopted a proposed class size of 375 students for the class of 1992, an increase of 15 students over last year’s class of 360. The male-female ratio, 60% to 40% in recent years, has been changed to 57% to 43% for the new class. The class of 1992 will have two fewer men students than the class of 1991, while the number of women students will increase by 17.

“For the last five years, the applicant pool has reflected the 57-43 ratio that the college is now trying to achieve,” according to Robert Gardner, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. Gardner says that the committee has made the policy on a temporary basis to accommodate the needs of various programs on campus, like the music, art, and athletic programs. “It didn’t appear possible to stay within that range (60-40 ratio) and address the needs of [these] programs,” says Gardner. “We’re trying to make a diverse student body that supports the programs that make this a great place.” Gardner hopes that a 50-50 ratio may someday be achieved. “This [50-50 ratio] is ideal for a campus this size,” he says.

Tom Jennings, Director of Residence Life, sees the increase in acceptances, especially for women, another way. Applicants who are minorities, international students, R.O.T.C. candidates, athletes, and children of alumni sometimes receive special consideration to provide diversity and strengthen various programs. Jennings explained that students from one of these groups may be admitted even if they are not as qualified as the majority of the applicant pool. In order to balance the class, more highly qualified students must be admitted. In general, said Jennings, these are women.

“What Davidson is trying to do is stay among the most highly selective colleges,” says Jennings. “To stay, we must have admission requirements that are very high.” “We’re also trying to have an athletic program, a diverse student body, and a smart student body. Sometimes these things conflict.”

Gardner finds little difference between the men and women applicants. He said men’s SAT scores tend to be higher, but women rank higher in their class. “It all balances out,” he said. The new policy is supposed to be reviewed every year but has not been. The committee will meet again in May to determine the size and composition for the class of 1993.

To accommodate the increase in freshman women, an extra hall of freshman women will be housed on the fourth floor of Cannon dorm. Sophomores Betsey Bryan and Sarah Whitesell were selected as hall counselors for the hall.

The week of April 11 to April 16 continues Davidson’s emphasis on the environment—with a focus on sea turtles, among other things.

Faculty makes final revisions of 1988-89 semester curriculum

By ED PATTE

On Tuesday, March 29, the faculty reviewed and passed the revised curriculum for the newly formulated semester system for the upcoming 1988-1989 school year. The new semester system follows to a large extent the recommendations of the Educational Policy Committee. Each semester will last fifteen weeks. Classes will meet for a total of three hours a week, either for one hour on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, or for one hour and a half on Tuesdays and Thursdays. The only exception to this schedule...Classes with lab periods. Students may take four or five courses per semester. Those desiring to take three or six courses a semester will have to obtain special permission from the Registrar. The area requirements under the new semester system have been revised to include six core areas. The requirements are as follows: Literature (English, Classics, French, Spanish, or German) - one class credit; Fine Arts (Art, Music, Theater) - one class credit; History - one class credit; Religion and Philosophy - two class credits, one of which must be religion; Natural Sciences (Math, Chemistry, Physics, and Biology) - three class credits; Math and a Science with a lab - at least one credit each; and Social Sciences (Political Science, Psychology, Anthropology, and Sociology) - two class credits.

As the classes of ’89, ’90, and ’91 have already started with the trimester system, the Office of the Registrar has created “transition codes” to help with their entrance into the semester system. The only major change for the class of ’89 under these “transition codes” will be the number of grade points (70) and class credits (35) necessary to graduate. With at least 27 class credits and 54 grade points already behind them, each senior will have to obtain eight class credits and sixteen grade points to obtain the minimum qualifications for graduation. Major requirements, language requirements, physical education requirements, and area requirements for the class of ’89 will remain the same as they were during the trimester system.

The class of ’90 will also have to meet the minimum requirements of 70 grade points and 35 class credits for graduation. Area, P.E., and language requirements will remain the same.

See SEMESTERS, page 2

Pres. Harrison Murray seeks “high visibility” for SGA
By MARGARET CARROLL

When asked if his life has changed since becoming SGA president, junior Harrison Murray replies, “Yes, it’s radically changed, but I love it!” Both President Murray and Vice-President Charlie Winn are enthusiastic about the coming year and have begun to explore programs for the upcoming year. The motto for the new SGA is “HV - high visibility.” Murray feels that the SGA has been too remote in the past and needs to establish new lines of communication between student organizations and the administration.

According to Murray, the college’s major issue areas for the upcoming year are Patterson Court, academics, and athletics, all of which will experience changes. Patterson Court is a major concern of the administration. Both President Kuykendall and Dean Will Terry have expressed growing concern about the increased vandalism, fighting, and animosity which has occurred on the Court. Murray plans to meet with individual house leaders to discuss possible action concerning the Court, although nothing definite has been proposed or decided upon. The SGA has been commissioned to sincerely attempt to alleviate some of the problems by working with the Patterson Court Council.

Realizing the need to maintain the balance between good athletics and high academic standards, Murray hopes that the SGA will be able to present student opinions and concerns regarding athletics to President Kuykendall and Athletic Director Kit Morris. Murray also hopes that the SGA will be instrumental in expanding women’s sports.

See SGA, page 2

Editorial: Let Court houses make their own dry rush decisions Page 10
Features: How a premed student became an award-winning artist Page 9
Sports: Athletes can be scholars, though some schools may not realize it Page 4
News: Students question Tom Jennings on housing Page 2
Inside