Features BoDeans fill Johnston gym with ‘spirited, heartfelt music’

After two albums and rave reviews in the national media, a Wisconsin band finally makes good

By MATT TERRELL

The BoDeans have a sound which many have found hard to describe. The group can excite audiences with their energy
and then amaze them with outstanding acoustic guitar work and a great vocal blend. Following the release of the BoDeans’
debut album, Love, Hope, Sex & Dreams, Jay Cocks of Time took a chance and wrote in the June 9,
1986 issue: “The BoDeans don’t have to worry about their threads. They already have so much spirit that with a
couple of years, another album and a few more tours, BoDean rock ‘n’ roll may become a generic term.”

There is now a second album, Outside Looking In, and another tour and BoDean rock ‘n’ roll is gaining fans
all over North America. This three-member band out of Waukesha, Wisconsin has produced some of the most heartfelt music made
today. With Sammy Llanas on acoustic guitar and vocals, Kurt Neumann on electric guitar and vocals, and Bob Griffin playing
bass guitar and adding vocals, the BoDeans present an exciting brand of music which can only be described as their
own.

Neumann, when asked by Reprise Records, the band’s recording agent, what makes the BoDeans sound a success, answered, “We’re a
band about good songs and good singing. Our voices together is one of the biggest parts of the band. What
we shoot for on a record is to have 10 or 12 songs, and have them all sound good and
work well together.”

The BoDeans have made it clear that their music will not be denied. As an early kick-off to what the
Union promises to be a great Spring Frolics weekend, the BoDeans bring their innovative rock ‘n’ roll to Davidson’s own
Johnston Gym for an 8 PM concert, Wednesday, April 13th. Tickets are available for $3 in advance. Prices go up
to $5 at the door for students and $8 for everyone else. Don’t miss the show that made the concert
schedule in Rolling Stone!

Confidential Health

College concerns about mononucleosis, “the kissing disease”

Dear Confidential Health:

I have a girlfriend who is a freshman at UNCC. We see a lot of each other and have become
quite close. Over Spring Break her doctor told her she has mono. Now what should I do?

—Kissed by a Freshman

Dear Fresh-ly Kissed:

Move over, and make room for all your fellow concerneds! We spoke with our friends at The Davidson Clinic and
learned that, as the peak season for your girlfriend’s illness winds down, yours has not been the only concern. Infectious
mononucleosis, or mono, is a disease caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). It occurs primarily in adolescents and young adults
(alas, college students!) The virus is not very contagious. It is spread by droplet contact from the mouth and throat
of an infected person, like kissing—thus its popular nickname, “the kissing disease!” The period between the time of exposure and
the development of symptoms (the incubation period) varies widely, with 40 days as average. The period of communicability is uncertain,
since the source and time of contact are usually unknown, but is probably only during the actual acute illness. Ninety
percent of all people over age 30 have developed antibodies to the EBV.

The illness is generally not severe. It begins gradually with mild symptoms of headache and fatigue. Fever rises and may
persist for 1-3 weeks. Sore throat with large, red tonsils and “white spots” occurs by the end of the first
week. Swollen glands in the neck and a large, sore spleen are common. About 10% will develop a spotty red
rash on their trunk, arms, and legs. Most people recover in 2-4 weeks, although weakness and fatigue may hang on
for several weeks. Isolating the ill person is not necessary. Students with symptoms or a known exposure, like yourself, should
be evaluated for mono. A throat culture can be done to test forStrep throat. A simple finger prick for a
rapid slide blood test, called a Mono-spot, will usually be positive if you have mono. You may have your blood
drawn to look for white blood cell changes and liver problems or EBV antibodies which are present with the onset
of symptoms and usually persist. The “cure” for mono is a tincture of time. The treatment is purely symptomatic. Fever
is controlled with Tylenol. Gargling with warm salt water will soothe a sore throat. Plenty of liquids—water, tea, juices, soda
pop, Gatorade, soup broth—are recommended. Bed rest, according to the degree of illness, is advised. Activity is limited to prevent
exhaustion. Heavy lifting, contact sports, and strenuous activity should be avoided for 6 weeks for the spleen’s sake! Social contact
may resume after the acute symptoms have passed. Theoretically, you can only have one case of true mono. Once mono
has been diagnosed with a positive blood test, you cannot “catch it” again. Once the diagnosis has been made, your
doctor will probably want to check on you every week until you have fully recovered. Before you spend any time
or energy on needless worry, jog over to the College.

See HEALTH, page 5

Film Frolix
By TIMOTHY JACKS and SCOT MYERS

If you’re one of the many adults who casually dismiss Disney films as animated romps for children, guess again. True
to Disney fashion, Lady and the Tramp is as entrancing to adults as it is to children, perhaps more so.
It doesn’t take as much work to create a fantasy world for children as it does for adults, yet Disney
spares no detail in creating just such a world for a viewer of any age. Every scene is finished to
excruciating perfection. Every character is fleshed out in amazing detail. Every motion is animated with such precision that the film
comes to life, oftentimes even better.

Set in Victorian-era America, the time period allows for long, flowing skirts, horse-drawn carriages, gas-lit street lamps; all flawlessly animated
to become “realer than real.” That is, the drapes flutter, not necessarily as drapes actually do, but the way we
feel they should. Disney’s Lady and the Tramp is no dog! Into this incredible mise-en-scène comes a retinue of equally
incredible characters. When “Jim-dear” gives “Darling” a puppy cocker spaniel for Christmas, we are in fact given a gift. We
are invited, no, drawn into their lives for the span of two years. During that time, we see “Lady” mature
from her disgustingly cute puppy phase into, quite literally, her namesake. Her idyllic domestic life is abruptly changed when Jim-dear
and Darling have a baby. Through a series of events, Lady finds herself rudely cast out into the streets when
Jim-dear and Darling leave town for the weekend and “Aunt Sarah” arrives with her Creepy, Atrocious, Terrorizing, Siameses. But when
she meets the “Tramp,” she sees that there’s a whole other side to a dog’s life. So do we.

Lady’s night in the pound is one of the most stirring scenes of the film, while at the same time
it highlights what makes this film so special. In a very short time, we are introduced to a dozen jailed
canines, every one of which has a perfectly defined character, even the ones seen for only a few seconds. (See
how much you can infer about poor “Klutsy” just by looking at his shadow!). Like almost every other Disney animated
film, Lady and the Tramp is a landmark. Most modern cartoon movies feature inane, candy-coated, blue grotesqueries; or overstuffed, namby-pamby
teddy bears; or transforming ghetto-blasters that become aircraft carriers while brainwashing kids with mind-numbing commercialism. As with all his films,
Disney has offered us a fine animated feature whose chief aim is to educate (and not just children) even while
entertaining. When we see Lady and the Tramp we gain a whole new perspective, oddly enough not into a dog’s
world, but our own.

Showing in the 900 Room on Friday, April 15 at 9 p.m., Walt Disney’s Lady and the Tramp is another
small bit of magic performed by the master of them all.
