12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Bias, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

“We haven’t seen the plans...”

The college is hoping to build three new dormitories before the beginning of next year. It’s taken the administration a
long time to decide exactly what they’re supposed to look like and where they’re supposed to be. For a while,
the dorms were going to be built in the Belk parking lot. Last November, it was finally decided to construct
them near the Covington golf facility, but it was announced that the plans would need some minor revisions before work
could begin.

It’s been more than two months since then, and there are no signs that the plans are anywhere near completion.
Indeed, the contractors have told us that they “haven’t even seen the plans” yet. Since they won’t even be able
to begin clearing and grading the site until three or four weeks after they receive the finished plans, it’s becoming
less and less likely that the new dorms will be finished by next September. If the contractors received the plans
tomorrow, we couldn’t expect construction to begin until the middle of February.

It’s not inconceivable that the dorms could be completed by the time school starts next year. After all, Akers dorm
was thrown up very rapidly during the summer of 1984, and it provided rooms for more than fifty students who
might otherwise have had to live off campus. Unfortunately, its flimsy construction, lack of insulation, poor ventilation, and vulnerability to
theft have led many of its residents to complain. Students claim that even the most delicate sounds pass easily through
the cinder-block walls, and the absence of proper ventilation in the bathrooms has led to the accumulation of mildew and
mold on the walls.

If the new dorms are in fact completed on time, we must hope that they are not erected as hastily
and with as little care as was Akers. Because the College is taking so long to begin building the dorms,
we probably won’t know until July or August (at the earliest) whether to expect them to be finished in time.
This uncertainty might soon bring considerable disruption to the campus and ruin many of the benefits the new dorms were
supposed to provide.

Consider the status of the five perimeter houses, for example. One of the reasons why the new dorms are needed
is because the perimeter houses are soon to be turned from student residences into office buildings. The college’s personnel must
be told very soon if they are to be expected to move their offices to the perimeter houses. Time will
be needed to make the extensive renovations necessary to turn the houses into offices. If college offices were to move
into the perimeter houses before the new dorms were completed, classes might resume in September with both the dorms and
the houses unavailable for student residence. As many as two hundred students might be forced to seek off-campus housing. Unfortunately,
there’s no way the town of Davidson could support such a sudden and enormous influx of students. The college would
have a housing disaster on its hands.

Even if the new dorms are finished, the uncertainty surrounding their eventual completion date could force many students to seek
off-campus housing before leaving school in May. If the dorms were completed on time, these students would have to choose
between living on campus and losing the deposits on their off-campus rooms. Many students lost their deposits this way in
1984, when they didn’t know if they had on-campus housing until the day they returned from summer vacation. In short,
the uncertainty surrounding the new dorms could spark a chain reaction leading to confusion.displacement, and misery. It would be a
shame if all this came to pass simply because the college was too indecisive and disorganized to get its act
together.

Friday, January 15, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

In the summer of '87, the dynamic duo received an urgent call from the DL: housing office. "We need a
new dorm by September 1st!"

"That's tomorrow, Robin! There's not much time! Call Commissioner Gordon and tell him the Joker will have to wait." —
Bat-Man

"Maybe we need more space and lofts, Batman! The Bat Anti-Housing Shortage Pump is working overtime. No time to lose,
Boy Wonder. There's the Bat Signal over the Athletic Fields."

Letters

Property lines

To the Editors:

This is the first time in over twenty-five years at Davidson College that I have written a letter to the
editor. Issues rise and fall, and time takes the edge off most of them. However, the misrepresentation of the facts
by Professor Ligo in The Davidsonian last week needs some adjustment.

Professor Ligo stated that I did not give the town committee plans indicating property lines; quote: “Ligo said that none
of the committee members were aware of the proximity of the new parking lot to the property lines of the
adjacent homeowners, and he acknowledges that they should have requested this information specifically. But, Ligo adds, Meetze did not offer
this information.” Unquote.

Since I was sure that the material the architect and I sent to the town for review did show property
lines, I went by the town hall this morning and found the material in file #42. Two sheets among the
material left with them clearly indicate boundaries of property owners adjacent to the parking lot at a scale 1"=40'. We
did provide the information.

Gover Meetze
Director of Facilities Planning

Sex life

To the Editors,

In last week’s “spoof” article my romantic life was described as “spectacularly unsuccessful” by Mr. Bill Scouten and those who
hide behind the aegis of “Editorship.” I consider this a personal affront and protest the use of those terms in
reference to my relations with women both here at Davidson and beyond. Perhaps Mr. Scouten should check his facts. In
the future, if and when you allude to my romantic life, I would prefer that you use the more accurate
phrase “insurmountably dismal.” Perhaps you would benefit from the reading of my book, Why Nice Guys Finish Last. Come on,
get on the ball.

John P. Hutchinson

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our spacious offices are located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union—come by and see us sometime, the door’s always open and we’re sure that the rooms are
all bugged, so we've got nothing to hide. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily
reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for
first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation,
Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill Scouten,
Florrie Snively.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Otrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Laura Dodenhoff, Callie Hammond, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love, Linda Tatsapaugh.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.
