Monday, November 7, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A review of the NCAA top twenty in basketball

By PHIL PRESCOTT

1. Louisville—The Cardinals' offense and defense revolve around the great play of 6-9 senior center Pervis Ellison. The emergence of
LaBradford Smith, a 6-3 sophomore guard with phenomenal athletic skills, would make Louisville the favorite.

The Cardinals won’t have the best record or be at the top of the polls at the end of the
season but should be peaking during the NCAA Tournament in March.

2. Georgetown—Although John Thompson lost the Olympic Medal Game to Russia, once the college basketball season starts he should be
all smiles. Alonzo Mourning, a 6-9 center and top freshman in the country whose specialty is defense, should make Thompson’s
pressing defense even more effective. Charles Smith, the 6-0 point guard, is back for his senior season and one of
the best clutch players in the country.

Dwayne Bryant and Mark Tilmon will alternate at the other guard position while Milton Bell, a 6-7 freshman power forward,
should start with Mourning. Thompson will go deep in his bench to get fresh guys.

3. Duke should be in the hunt again for the national championship. The team is led by 6-10 senior power
forward Danny Ferry. Robert Brickey (6-5 Jr.) and John Smith (6-7 Sr.) should start at the forwards with Quinn Snyder
(6-3 Sr. point guard) leading the team. Freshmen guard-forward Brian Davis (6-6) and Christian Laettner (6-10 center) will demand playing
time.

4. UNLV—This team has a lot of incoming talent from the junior colleges. The only question is how the new
players will mesh. Jerry Tarkanian has the talent to win it all; he’s molded teams into big winners many a
time in his career. The team is led by Stacey Augmon (6-7 soph. guard-forward) who made the Olympic Team as
a defensive whiz.

Keith James, another experienced player, should start at point or shooting guard. Juniors Moses Scurry (6-7), David Butler (6-10), and
George Ackles (6-10) should compete for positions at forward while 6-1 sophomore Greg Anthony, a transfer from Portland, should start
at guard.

5. UNC—The Tar Heel team is loaded with talent as usual. King Rice (6-0 soph.) would be a good point
guard except he can’t shoot the ball. So unless Rice starts making some shots, Jeff Lebo (6-3 sr.) will have
to play point guard although he is more comfortable at shooting guard and doesn’t have the speed to lead a
fast break. Kevin Madden (6-5 jr.) and Steve Bucknall (6-6 sr.) will alternate between big guard and small forward.

All-American 6-9 260-pound junior power-forward J. R. Reid will play alongside Scott Williams (6-10 jr. center) with sophomores Pete Chilcutt
(6-8) and Rich Fox (6-7) alternating at small forward.

6. Ohio State
7. Temple
8. Villanova
9. Iowa
10. Georgia
11. Arizona
12. Indiana
13. Notre Dame
14. Connecticut
15. Stanford
16. Wake Forest
17. University of North Carolina-Charlotte
18. Pittsburgh
19. Syracuse
20. Georgia Tech

GATTO, from page 10

even more difficult.

But Gatto does not advocate changing admissions standards to suit the needs of the football program. He believes that “we
can’t be a football program that doesn’t fit [with the rest of the school].”

Furthermore, the Colonial League poses problems in terms of geography. Alumni support and recruiting, Gatto believes, are affected adversely by
Colonial League membership.

Addressing the financial obligations of the new league, Gatto said, “We haven’t had a budgetary increase.”

Also, recruiting practices of the league schools are more in sync with northeastern rather than southern practices.

“Need-based financial aid is out of step with southern recruiting,” said Gatto.

Finally, Gatto addressed recruiting, “the process of selling the school and the program.”

Gatto believes that football recruits place education first in coming to Davidson and the desire to play football second.

In recruiting, Gatto says he possesses a great tool—the ability to tell a recruit that he will play and make
an impact on the program. “Our recruiting has been assisted by our lack of success.”

He gives several examples of freshmen, recruited by other schools, who decided to come to Davidson because they could step
into starting roles immediately.

Particularly, freshman Horace Hamm, an outstanding receiver and kick-returner, “decided to come here because he knew he would play,” rather
than going to Lehigh where he would not have had that immediate impact.

For the sake of his program, Gatto must hope that more players like Horace Hamm decide to come to Davidson,
and soon.

MAKE A FRESH START IN A REWARDING CAREER.
TURN YOUR LOVE FOR CHILDREN, YOUR WISH FOR A LUXURIOUS LIFESTYLE, AND YOUR DESIRE TO BE A PROFESSIONAL NANNY INTO
A REALITY.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE NATIONWIDE!
CALL 1-800-260-0031.

Junior Todd Sautter, 33, moves the ball downfield for the Wildcats Club football team in their 20-6 win against UNC-Wilmington.

Photo by Ben Yarbrough.

Wednesday Nights, 7-9 p.m.
Robert Austell
128 S. Main St. Davidson, NC
