Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Features Years of shoes, shears and service How Norton remembers 40 years of Davidson By DAVE ROCHFORD

“Cutting hair all these years, you must be quite a philosopher,” observes an amiable, white-headed gentleman from beneath the clippers. A broad grin animates the barber’s face. “Oh, no,” he responds without a break in his rhythm. “Ain’t no way about it but one day at a time.”

Kenneth Watson Norton has been giving haircuts, one day at a time, for more than 40 years. Counting his shoe-shining days, next year marks a half-century of service in the same timeless Main Street shop. After helping the elderly customer with his jacket, Norton gives the pale blue apron a sharp snap. “Next please, sir.” A tow-headed boy of perhaps seven deliberately places an oft-read copy of Captain America’s exploits on a table already laden with magazines. With his customer settled in the heavy, antediluvian barber’s chair, Norton sets to work against the autumnal backdrop of crimson and gold framed by a small jungle of window plants. Noting a reporter’s gaze, he nods, “A pretty super part of God’s creation—Piedmont, North Carolina.”

In 1939 Norton began shining shoes in this shop, owned at the time by his father and uncle. He recalls the periodic crescendo in his workload just before an elite Davidson fraternity gala. He shined wing-tip, dancing, and even spats-clad formal shoes that would come in droves from across the street. In the post-Depression years, Norton remembers townspeople and students gathering around the potbelly stove in the back of the shop during the cold winters. “Students and old-timers knew each other better in those days,” he said. From time to time basketball notable Dean Rusk came in to chat with the group, his dark suit-jacket holding company on the rack with those of his classmates. Behind a lead and glass razor case, Norton keeps a yellowed letter addressed to his mother from the prolific Secretary of State. Rusk’s sympathetic words extend condolences on the death of his friend Hood, Norton’s father.

The advent of the 1940s marked the heyday of “an era of pageantry” for Davidson. College football roused pitched enthusiasm back then, Norton says with evident fondness. Confronting such august opponents as Duke, Wake Forest, and Carolina, the Davidson football team received virtually unanimous student support in organized cheers, banners, and floats. The boy under the busy scissors thumps his mud-caked Keds against the worn iron foot-rest and fixes on me a baleful stare that says, “Go sit down and let the man concentrate.” The archetypal RCA Victor television drones on: As the World Turns. “I’m getting out of the penthouse, I’m going back to the farm, and I’m divorcing you!” Norton glances.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original narrative and punctuation as requested.up, grins and returns to the shrinking head of hair. He knew she was going to say that. Called to the Korean conflict, Norton for a time left the business to his father and served in the army’s military police. The prized 1980 Honda Hawk motorcycle he rides now is reminiscent of his '50s motorcade days as an MP. Sometime during this era, the traditional red beanie of the freshman class passed into the memorabilia closet, but “things still stayed pretty formal” on campus. 

What of the turbulence and malaise of the sixties? Were there peace marches on Main Street? “Well, there was not a whole lot of protest, but they did stop getting very many haircuts,” he says. While the fraternal exodus caused by new self-selection policies had little effect on business, the introduction of women to the campus changed Norton’s clientele. The occasional female customer drops by even today, but not with the frequency that characterized the early ’70s. The broad smile surfaces again: “I was the only barber around.”

See NORTONIZED, page 5

convenience store with an unloaded gun. Every time H.I. is caught and re-sentenced, he is photographed and fingerprinted by Ed (Holly Hunter), a police officer. 

There are scenes of H.I. watering the dirt, and the couple watches the sun go down every night from their lawn chairs.

Raising Arizona: a runaway train
By LEE BUSHKELL

Their only wish is for a child to share their happiness and love. In Joel Coen’s Raising Arizona, the distortion of the ordinary is the rule rather than the exception. The movie is harmlessly bizarre and good-humored. Meeting several times during readmission, H.I. falls in love with Ed and proposes to her. The couple’s first days of marriage, the “salad days,” are blissful, and Coen rides out all the glitches with a wry twist. 

Alas, the salad days cannot continue, for Ed is sterile. Trying to adopt a child, they run into problems due to H.I.’s criminal record. They are forced to kidnap one of the “Arizona” quintuplets to shore up Ed’s maternal need. The rest of the film entails their adventures with their new baby, young Nathan Jr. 

To describe Raising Arizona is futile, for it moves on so many tangents simultaneously. The plot resembles a roller coaster set in motion. H.I.’s hair is frazzled and messy. The total chaotic structure of the movie succeeds, however, as does the camera work. The odd comical antics make it resemble a runaway train.

See ARIZONA, right