a Friday, January 8, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN Beyond Davidson Israel to deport Palestinians; violence in South Africa By KATHERINE PRICE Headlining the news January 1-7: Around the World — In a rare move, the U.S. voted against Israel in a U.N. Security Council vote. The unanimously approved vote asks Israel to refrain from deporting Palestinians. Violence has plagued the Israeli-occupied territories in the past month. Over 1,400 Palestinians have been arrested by Israel in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Threatened deportation of Palestinian leaders has met with strong disapproval from the U.S. Israel claims it is trying to quell further unrest by getting rid of those who have incited the riots. Violence has also been prevalent in southern Africa, where over 250 blacks have been killed in fighting in townships. Warfare has occurred between the Zulu group Inkatha, led by Mangosuthu Buthelezi, and the Zulu followers of the outlawed African National Congress. The Zulus are the largest tribal group in South Africa. Pro-ANC supporters disagree with Buthelezi’s willingness to participate in negotiations with the white South African government. The USSR may be moving closer to withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan. Reportedly, the USSR will agree to a year-long withdrawal of military forces if protection for departing Soviet troops can be assured through U.N. negotiations. Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze is in Afghanistan this week, but no progress on withdrawal has been announced. The U.S. continues to support the Afghan rebel forces. Across the Nation — The U.S. space program recently suffered setbacks due to an explosion involving the MX missile and a disappointing test fire of the shuttle booster rocket. These developments came as the Soviets set a record for having a man in space for eleven months. Gary Hart announced that he is back in the Democratic race for the presidency. Hart surprised many by reentering the contest which he left following a much-publicized personal affair with Miami model Donna Rice. Hart’s new slogan, “Let the people decide,” brings the character issue back to the forefront of the presidential campaign. CONTROVERSY, from p. 1 opportunity to perform and (singing in the larger choir) doesn’t take up that much time on the part of the students.” He also finds Albinder to be “one of the best professors at this school. He can be very sarcastic, but I have never talked to a student who did not respect Frank as a professor -- I have talked to some who didn’t like him...” While Fish has sung under the direction of many talented conductors, he says that “no one puts together a better program than he, and he knows his music inside and out.” Choir members and students of Albinder plan to show their support for him in a variety of ways, some of which Fish characterizes as perhaps a little too drastic. He went on to say, however, that “We believe in Frank enough to support him any way we can. I’m not exactly sure what that will entail, but we want to go further than simply expressing our concern.” Senior Wes Hofferbert offered a view somewhat contrary to that supported by Fish while expressing his support for the decision of the administration: “I feel that the Administration has access to a wide range of information and that the decision not to renew Frank’s contract is well-founded.” Hofferbert finds no fault in Albinder’s teaching abilities, but objects to the lack of discipline in the concert choir. “It’s an absolute necessity to have order during practices -- people talk to each other, don’t come to practice, and Frank just will not get tough with them.” The Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) is currently drafting a proposal which could alter the faculty evaluation procedure. According to Committee Chairman Dr. Cole Barton, “the first step will probably be to institute a review of candidates by their individual departments.” It would also provide for a Faculty Review Committee with representation from all divisions of the community “with access to all information that the Academic Dean would have,” including reviews from outside the College and from key students.” According to Barton, “there are good arguments against such an institution -- for one thing, it might create tension. How willing would a faculty member be to say that another is not measuring up?” Regarding confidentiality, Barton said that “the Dean is in a confidential, it might be considered more credible.” “If the reasons were legitimate and were requested in writing and the Dean sat down and wrote them out, they would go into the Archives,” where the College could be called upon to release them to prospective employers of the individual, Barton said. “The implications of giving reasons for a non-renewal or dismissal ought to be explained, and they should be given if they are constructive criticisms,” Barton said. Contract renewal decisions are based upon distinction in teaching, professional attainments and the intellectual and moral values demonstrated in the teacher’s concern for students and serviceto Photo by Jon Boles

A difficult position. If information is the institution and community.

ADMISSIONS, from p. 1

“Highly selective plus” category to the top “most selective” ranking. Gardner said that whether or not Davidson comes to be considered as one of the “most selective” schools will probably depend upon its median SAT score figures. “We'll be very close to the line, and whether or not we’ll make it over will depend upon our SAT profile. We’d make it easily if the criteria were just our applicant-to-space ratio and the figures reporting the class rankings of our students.”

Gardner said that Davidson’s relatively low SAT profile (a median combined score of 1230 last year) is due more to geography than to any failings on the part of Davidson students: “We take a large number of our students from the Southeast where they don’t have the big board scores like they have in the North. Students up there go to expensive SAT prep courses and take the test eight or nine times. Our people are just as good as theirs; ours are just more relaxed.”

Gardner said that he wasn’t sure what had led to the increase in the number of applications, but that he “had some hunches.” “Part of it’s timing,” he said, “the key is getting the applications out early.” The numbers support his hunch: according to Admissions Office figures, Davidson had received 23 applications by September 3 of last year, while in past years it had received few or none by such an early date. This year the “early surge” has carried on at full strength throughout the year, and should end by allowing the Office of Admissions to post its “best year ever.”

Gardner said that other factors affecting this year’s success may have been the emphasis which the Office is attempting to place upon personal contacts with applicants. He said that every applicant to Davidson now receives a personal letter from a member of the Admissions Office staff, and that the basic forms have been changed to reflect the new focus on personal relationships. For example, the application now comes in a folder which bears photos of all the members of the Admissions Office staff on the back.

It may seem strange that changes in such apparently minor details of the admissions process could bring about such increases in the number of applicants. But Gardner says that he thinks this year’s success is really due to “a lot of little things adding up. Paying attention to those kinds of details is what makes all the difference in the world.”

Gardner doesn’t think that Davidson’s recent prominence in national rankings, such as those listed in U.S. News and World Report, have had much to do with the increase in the number of applicants. “I don’t believe in those rankings very much,” Gardner said. “Our position in the U.S. News survey hasn’t seemed to affect admissions in the past. The last year we really had a good year here was in 1985, and that was the year we disappeared from the ranking.”

Gardner is reserved in his enthusiasm about this year’s apparent success; “We don’t want 4000 applications here. We want enough to remain competitive, but not so many that we can no longer provide applicants with the personal attention they deserve from Davidson.” He is also careful to avoid declaring victory while the game is still going on. “This could still fall through. It could die in the water,” he says. The admissions year is not yet over, and although the predictions are very rosy indeed, Davidson will have to await the spring thaw to learn the final verdict on the success of this year’s admissions process.

Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Bob Gardner says of the Ivy League: “Our people are just as good as theirs; ours are just more relaxed.” Photo by Keith Finch

Don't wait until Spring to get your tan! Keep your skin tanned and conditioned throughout the Winter. Special for Students: 6 visits for only $19.95. Visits must be used within one month of purchase date. Phone: 892-3907

Camp Thunderbird

Excellent Summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities and be dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her potential. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics; tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird, Clover, S.C., 29710, (803) 831-2121.