Features

Ruth Pittard:

By ANJALI SHARMA

Who is that tall, graceful lady with the short hair, cheerful smile, those chic clothes that she appears to be born to wear, and the warm voice over the phone which never fails to praise you for a job well done? That cheerful laugh and enthusiasm belong to union program coordinator Ruth Pittard.

Pittard “helps help people do things.” She serves as the official advisor to the Union Board committees, supervises the ticketing office, answers queries, and is a source of information and stationery!

Her office has a collection of plants, lamps, cassette and video tapes. A poster of Marilyn Monroe adorns one wall, as well as a board full of family pictures and thank-you cards. She has a “husband” and a teddy bear.

“He is a good bear, my barometer of people’s feelings,” Pittard explains. “If people come in and swing him, it’s okay. But if they hug him and sit on the comfy armchair, they are there for emotional support.” All are welcome.

An English teacher at a high school, Pittard was the last interviewee for the Assistant Director position in the Audio-Visual department at Davidson and got the position. That was thirteen years ago. Five years ago, Pittard joined the Union under director William Brown.

“The Davidson student is among the most intelligent and creative; I have been to enough colleges to know,” said Pittard. She works within the Union advising the committees and locating artists for the 900 Room. She meets with each of the thirty committee chairpersons once a week. Of the record-breaking 413 events held last year in the Union, Pittard was involved in at least 400.

Pittard listens to the music of the 1960s, reads newspapers, grows her own herbs and vegetables, and bakes her own bread. She also has worked for the past 18 years to promote recycling and is especially concerned with getting the Davidson community involved.

She actually looks forward to the mornings so that she can get to work, though she says she really thinks of it more as a pleasure than a job. “Anything can happen and does happen.” She enjoys facing new people in new situations and helping them solve their problems.

“Maybe I suffer from terminal adolescence,” Pittard added with a smile.

SPRING BREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE

50 FT. YACHTS BIMINI BAHAMAS

GROUPS OF 8 $435.00 PP 7 DAYS 1-800-999-7245 ARRANGE SMALL GROUP & CRUISE FREE

Members of 1918 cast Wednesday night

Photo by Alex Hayden

1918 captures human spirit in time of turmoil

A largely unexperienced cast brings the struggles of a war-torn era to play on the Davidson stage in the regional premiere of Horton Foote’s 1918. The audience was visibly moved by last Friday’s opening performance of the play. Sophomore Leah Millar said it was the best she has seen at Davidson, even though several members of the cast were not happy about their performance. “After the play a lot of them were saying they thought they didn’t do well. They were really surprised when we told them how good we thought it was.”

The cast includes four freshmen, a male lead with no previous acting experience, and only four veterans of Davidson major productions. In only two months this group came together to effectively portray members of a tightly-knit Texas family. The Robedeaux family gathers strength from the family unit to carry on through its trials. They draw on each other for hope and purpose. “Life goes on, you go on,” Barber said.

According to 1918's “Mr. Vaughn,” Eric Bone, the play is basically about human relationships. “The major challenge for the cast has been to develop these relationships while accurately representing the age in which they are set.”

Bone said the play deals with great suffering masked behind the normalcy of day-to-day living. “Each actor was forced to dig below the written dialogue and discover what is present only between and behind lines to find his or her character’s way of dealing with the pervasive pain.”

The play’s director, Professor Rupert Barber, said his cast had to do a lot of “reading between the lines” because of the

See 1918, page