THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jon Dyar Boles, Central Committee
Keith Finch, Editorialist
Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editor
Tripp Helms, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Rachel Nation, Inside Art Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
John Wightman, Business Manager
Lucia Kendall, Opinions Editor, Circulation Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Section Production Editors

A sense of history

As another year draws to a close and another group of seniors prepares to leave Davidson, we are reminded once
again of the student body’s lack of collective memory. We attend Davidson for just four years, and though our interest
in campus controversy (or what passes for it) may be intense and emotional, it is almost always terribly brief. All
too soon the leaders of any campus movement have left Davidson and entered the real world, and their causes live
on only as the dim memories of those who sat on the sidelines.

There has been little controversy at Davidson in the past nine months. This year has nonetheless seen the final resolution
of several old conflicts, whose outcomes would have astounded the students who first “fought” these battles just a few short
years ago. For example: who would have believed that semesters could have come to Davidson so easily? Just five years
ago the semester debate was raging across this peaceful campus, and a vocal majority of students were solidly opposed to
any calendar change whatsoever. Though the faculty decided to retain the trimester system primarily because they couldn’t agree on a
credit-hour system, student opinion was a major factor in shaping the campus debate. Wouldn’t these activists of yesteryear have been
surprised to see semesters instituted so easily in 1988, without a whisper of protest from today’s students?

Last Fall the college administration finally killed “Flipsides,” the alternative rock program which for years had stood as the last
reminder of the days when WDAV was entirely student-run. By 1978 students had finally saved enough money to purchase an
18,000-watt FM stereo transmitter for their alternative music station, and at that very moment the trustees took the station from
them, hired a professional staff, and enforced a classical format. The move provoked campus-wide protest and a feeling of enmity
which is all but forgotten today. WDAV had been one of the largest extracurricular activities at Davidson, but soon students
were working at the station only as work-study employees and on “Flipsides.” And now “Flipsides” is gone. Davidson could have
had one of the nation’s greatest student-run radio stations, and instead it spends $50,000 a year to support a plain-vanilla
public relations tool. Today’s students don’t know what they’re missing, so they don’t care. Like students at all colleges, they
lack any sense of history.

These are just a few examples of recent controversies which have faded into oblivion. What will happen to the issues
which face us today? Will students forget that there ever was a time without dry rush? Will Professors Frank Albinder
and John Engell be forgotten as Davidson turns into a publish-or-perish diploma factory? Will the memory of co-ed dining fade
from students’ minds as single-sex groups wipe out the last co-ed houses, so immensely popular throughout the 1970s? Is it
forever the destiny of students to forget the past and meet the future without any knowledge of what others have
done before them?

More than any other Davidson publication, The Davidsonian serves as a feeble attempt to preserve some of the college’s day-to-day
history, some sort of student collective memory. If you want to learn more about the issues which faced your predecessors,
try reading the bound volumes of old Davidsonians stored in the Davidsoniana room on the second floor of the library.
Read about the days when the college was deciding whether or not to admit women. Read about the year Sam
Spencer wiped out most of Patterson Court. Read about the protests over Cambodia and Kent State in ’70. It may
all seem petty or insignificant, but it’s your heritage. You may find that it makes life at today’s Davidson a
lot easier to understand.

With this issue The Davidsonian ends its regular publication schedule for Spring term. This does not mean, however, that you
won’t be hearing anything more from us...to be in charge. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.
Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Don’t send things to us through campus mail; they'll get lost. Offices are located on
the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not
necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian, but you should know that by now. Subscriptions cost
$15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held
by the Trustees of Davidson College. So if they don’t like what we print they can take us over. Just
like they did with WDAV. Argh.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Suzanne Craymer, Jim Dillon, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte,
Susan Pearsall, Stewart Rawson, David Scott, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Katherine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lisa “College Relations Goddess” Gerrard, Chip Houck, John “Just Wanted to be
in the Box™™‘Stud Muffin” Hutchinson, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Scot “Yes, the Scot Myers that graduated” Myers, Carey Pickard, Bruce
Plourde, John David Ramsey, Bill “Slack” Scouten, Shannon O’Shields, Florrie Snively.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Bruce Newsome, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Lisa LeNard, Rachel Nation, Lucy Siler.

Staff Artist: Kevin “Never invited to anything” Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen.

Cultural Consultant: Lee “Finally wrote an article” Eichelberger.

— Friday, April 29, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Anp Jose

Where Were You During The Recent Library And Student Store Break-Ins?

Well, We Was Crackin’ Down On Some Mean and Nasty Parking Violators!

Letters

A Better Davidson

Dear Editors:

Reading recent issues of Update and The Davidsonian has moved me to submit the following curmudgeonly comments:

1) The “divestment” flap continues to dominate letters sections of both publications. The editors appear to be attempting (properly in
my opinion) to print contributions from both points of view on the issue. I really thought that this celebrated academic
cause had run its course, but perhaps Davidson has just been a bit slow in grappling with it. Anyway, the
thing that struck me about recent letters that I read was that the closer the writer’s personal experience and contact
with South Africa (the country, not the U.S. media representation) the more understanding and tolerant he or she was of
the efforts being made in that country to deal with a complex, delicate, and potentially explosive social time bomb. Certainly
the long term strategic interests of the U.S. are poorly served by the selective indignation of so many moral purists
embarked on this noisy guilt trip, all financial considerations aside.

2) The eloquent paean to high and constantly rising tuition rates expressed in the March 23, 1988 Davidsonian editorial should
not pass unremarked. As a father of students in two other private institutions, I was already acquainted with the Robin
Hood approach to tuition rate setting. I would merely like to offer this prophecy for the editor’s consideration: if the
editor ever achieves the blissful state of tuition-paying parenthood, then he will likely become far less rapturous over this particular
form of involuntary philanthropy.

Yours for a better Davidson,
Stuart H. Shippey, Jr., M.D.

Central America

Dear Editors:

I want to apologize if I made any mistakes in correcting the facts in Mr. Sculley’s article. I am not,
indeed, an expert in “poverty” as Mr. Scully claims to be. I have been very busy working my way through
college washing dishes, cooking, waiting tables, collecting trash, teaching, occasionally working with the poor in a soup kitchen, and just
being a “minority” in America; so I haven’t had the time to become an expert on “poverty.” Neither could I
claim a special expertise in Central America. You see, I am just a “Salvadoran” born and raised on a farm
near San Salvador, and I haven’t had the opportunity to travel for several weeks in Central America in order to
become an expert in the area. So, after this year, when Mr. Scully goes back to his home in a
well-to-do suburb in Massachusetts, I hope he remembers me as “just an ignorant citizen of the third world.” However, facts
are facts and I can’t apologize for Mr. Scully’s misinterpretation of reality.

Sincerely,
Galo Cabrales
