Inside Art barely holds up as it is. Betty scares me the way she slams the car door and runs
towards the road. I’m afraid she’ll get hit one day, the way she dances into its edge sometimes. “Betty, get
away from there. You’re liable to get hit.”

“Oh, Mom,” she comes back with her hands fiddling with themselves. “I’m just getting the mail.”

“How the cars supposed to know that? Not a one of them stops by our house to say so much
as a Howdy do, Miss Ann, Mr. Charles, Little Mr. Bobby. You can believe me they won’t stop for you
either, Little Miss.”

“Even though you’re a pretty thing,” Charles adds as Betty walks up to the house, much slower than she ran
out to the road.

“Get any mail, honey?” I ask.

“No, Momma.” She waves her empty hands at me like I should’ve noticed, shouldn’t have asked.

“You hear the way she talks to me,” I mutter to Charles, but he’s walked off from me and moved
up near, looking down at her, “You expecting a letter from Fred?”

“No. Yeah. Well, I don’t know.” She laughs. “No. Yeah.”

Dad smiles, turns to me and says, “Mom, I’m going out to the store. You want anything?”

“I do, honey. Would you get some wire for the chickens? They keep getting out of the little fence we’ve
got for them now, and they’ve got no more sense than Betty here, running out into the road.”

He’s walking out to the car fast now before I have time to think of anything else. “Oh, and would
you go down to the Sew and So and pick me up some thread and milk. Some ham, no not
ham, some beans over at Grier’s.”

“I ain’t going grocery shopping today. Thank you very much Mrs. Landis, but I tell you what I will do.
I'll get that thread so you can do something about this shirt of mine.”

He’s already backing out the drive. I wish he wouldn’t go away so fast. I know he can hear me
with his window rolled down.

“And some milk, Charles.”

“And some milk.” He’s backed into the highway and is shifting gears.

“And some wire.” I’m yelling through the passenger side, but the glass window is rolled up on this side. I
smile so the neighbors don’t think I’m a nag or crazy woman, let my arms fall to my side. He
waves at me and drives away. I wonder why he had to leave so fast. I wonder why he isn’t
even driving towards the drug store.

I turn around, walk back towards the house. Betty’s sitting out on a chair. I sit down beside her. “What
you sitting out here for? I didn’t mean no harm what I said to you. I just don’t want you
getting hurt. That’s all, Betty.”

“Bob is crying like the end of all creation inside. You might want to see what’s bothering him so I
can sleep in some quiet tonight.” She’s always rude to me when Charles isn’t there.

“Do you like talking to your mother like that?” I ask her.

“Like what, Momma.” Now she smiles like she doesn’t know what I’m talking about.

“You know exactly what I’m talking about, Betty.” I’m smiling too since the neighbors might start getting wrong ideas if
they think I’m fighting all the time with my daughter. I’m a peace-loving woman at heart, sing in the choir
over at Oak Grove Methodist, and have ever since I was a child of eight. I had a beautiful voice
as a child, sang solos and all. Sometimes Charles and I have even sung a duet or two in front
of everybody. I think he’s got the better voice, but he’s never joined the choir, says he likes listening to
me sing too much to get up there and start singing over me. Betty laughed in my face when I
suggested she join the choir when she had reached a suitable age, two or three years ago.

“Isn’t it a pretty day?” She looks up at the sky like God might find her here, after she’s skipped
church two Sundays in a row. I want to save my daughter from being hurt, but she doesn’t ever listen
to me.

“Bob in his bed?”

“He was up crawling around, watching TV when I last saw him.” He knows he should be sleeping. I go
inside and find him crying in front of the TV set. I pick him up with a firmness that suggests
both the spanking he deserves for being out of bed, and the holding that will make him stop crying.

“What’s the matter, Bobby? Why you get out of bed so early? It ain’t five.” Bobby is crying loud, because
he thinks he can’t be heard over the television noise.

“I was just saying goodbye to Daddy. I was just in the front yard. I thought you were in bed,
Bobby.” I walk back over to his bedroom, and set him in his crib. “How’d you get out of bed,
Bobby?”

Bobby keeps crying. He can’t talk to point any accusations at anyone, but I have my suspicions. I go back
outside, planning to sit with Betty, and ask her why she’d gotten Bobby out of the crib like I know
she’s done, but Bobby starts crying again, so I have to stay by his crib for an hour or two
until it’s dark. Then I have to start cooking supper as best I can without the beans since Charles hasn’t
brought them home yet. The store isn’t doing so well as it used to. People move away from this town
fast as they can. It isn’t the kind of town you move to. I don’t like going down to the
store with him much. It makes me sad to see how run down the Sew and So looks.and how. The
Town Hotel has closed, but we have to drive by them both every Sunday morning. As if I don’t have
sins enough of my own to pray for, I have to worry how Betty’s going to survive in this town
if it keeps falling apart all around her, and worrying when she might decide it’s time for her to do
like the other young people do, and move away.

“Betty, you want to come in here and see that Bobby keeps quiet? I’m starting supper.” She’s out in the
front yard watching the cars go by, most of them aren’t even from around here, just driving between Sweet Gum
and Mockerville. The nuclear power plant's in Sweet Gum and the mills are over by Mockerville. Still, Betty seems familiar
even with some of those cars that aren’t from around here, and she likes watching the folks as they’re just
getting off from work, driving home. Some have their music on, blasting out of their cars. Others just look real
tired. She comes inside slowly and quiet, thinking about the cars I guess.

“Mom, why’s Dad taking so long? He doesn’t have some other woman on the side, does he?”

“Hush your silliness. Go see to Bobby.”

“I am. I am. I don’t hear nothing from him. Dad’s a good-looking man, Mom. I bet he’s got a
thing on the side.”

I don’t know why she just tries to make me mad, as if there aren’t enough things to talk about
already. They could widen the highway to four lanes any day and half our yard would be gone.

“Your father is not having an affair with no one, Miss Betty. If I were you, I’d set my mind
about what I was going to do with my life.”

Betty looks at me out from under her uncombed, dirty blonde hair with surprised, brown eyes. “What you mean, Mom?”
She smiles, folding her dress.

“Well, I mean now that Fred’s moved away. I wouldn’t be surprised to see you do the same.” I put
the pot of beans in the oven, light the match, turn it on 450 and close the door.

“Mom, I ain’t moving away from you and Dad.” Betty goes over to the counter and starts fiddling through the
clean dishes. “Mom, did you hear me? I ain’t moving away from you and Dad. Where do you think I’d
go? Fred hasn’t written me in three days. I don’t think he even has a job. How’s he gonna support
me too?”

“I hear there’s work enough in Charlotte. You give him time. He’s likelier to find a job down there than
he is here. Your Dad would give him a job if he could, but your Dad can’t afford that sort
of thing now, and he’s not even hurting the worst of them.”

“Last letter Fred wrote me, he said he was thinking of moving back here.”

“Just as sure he does he’ll go off to Charlotte again, Betty. He can’t stay in this town.”

“Momma,” Betty’s raising her voice at me again.

“Keep quiet, Betty, Bobby’s asleep now.” She looks back in the direction of Bobby’s room, then at me, then at
Bobby’s room. She starts storming out of the house, and I am sure she’s decided to leave right then. I
expect to find her walking across the road towards the other side, and hitch her way into Charlotte like I
saw her older brother Tommy doing. That was the last we heard from him.

Charles has pulled up, and Betty is out by the car talking with him. She gets the bag from his
arms and carries it by me into the kitchen. Charles comes up behind her, holds me, and kisses me.

“You remember to get the wire?”

“It’s out in the car.”

“Beans? Milk?” He shakes his head.

“What? What’s Betty got there?”

“I bought you some ham.”

“Ham? Charles, ham?” I cry out ham the first time, but whisper it the second. I don’t want the neighbors
thinking we’re rich. “We can’t afford ham, honey, you know that.” This time I say ham more like “mmm,” like
a bad word you and someone else know, but only say to each other in your eyes or in a
nod.

“I sold the store,” Charles’ voice breaks inside my head. “I sold it,” he walks past me. I stand in
the front yard by the two empty chairs, looking at the road. “How are we going to pay for the
ham? Oh, how are we going to pay for anything?” I find myself looking at our front yard, desperately calculating
how much we could get for it if we could sell it, even though in a few years it might
only be half a yard.

“I got a job over at the nuclear power plant, honey.” He’s snuck up behind me, holding me. “We’re going
to be rich.” He kisses my neck like it’s a diamond necklace.

“You got a job?” I look back into his eyes like they’re rubies or something richer than rubies that I
don’t even know about. They light so bright he’s so proud. They shine like the night that’s fallen all around
us is day.

J. Allen Smith '88

Beth Duttera ’90
