Monday, August 29, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Soccer team prepares for new campaign

By WHIT WILKS

This year the Cats venture into the independent realm in their first season out of the Southern Conference. Coach Charlie
Slagle carries high hopes for a squad which suffered heavy graduation losses but has enough returning players that a very
successful campaign may be expected. The team will be built around the duo of Tracy Hankins and Rob Vest in
the midfield, along with Mike Friedlander at one of the striker positions. Other players who will be called on to
play key roles are Walter Wray, Spider Wormuth, Peter Cobb at either forward or outside midfield, Scott Poisson and Bruce
Nofsinger at outside backs, Ross Saldorini at stopper, and Curtis Ott at sweeper. The goalie position will be filled by
Scott Zucker and freshman Doug Long. These two must attempt to take over for All-American Jim Kelly, who is now
a member of the Davidson coaching staff. Although neither has much experience, Slagle has been pleased with their preseason practice.
Obviously, the performance of his keepers will go a long way in determining the outcome of the season.

A long list of players will also be expected to play certain roles on this year’s club. Neco Dasilva, Rob
Ukrop, Jim Walker, Frank Bricio, Robert Avinger, Lance Long, and David Foote will see time in the back. In analyzing
his schedule, Slagle notes that “there are few games we cannot win and few games we cannot lose.” He believes
the range of possible victories to be from a low of five to a high of seventeen. Slagle stated that
hard work and the right breaks will make all the difference. Top teams such as American, N.C. State, USC, UNCG,
and UNCC all appear on the 1988 schedule. Slagle feels that he has assembled a consistently strong lineup of matches.
He notes that almost every game should be tough. Fans used to the typical 1-0 Davidson game will be glad
to know that Slagle expects more 3-2 contests this year. His plan to open things up more accounts for this
prediction. With inexperienced goalies, it is unrealistic to expect opposing sides to be held to only one score per match.

In addition to Kelly, Slagle also welcomes Harry “Pete” Petersen to his staff of assistants. Petersen was All-American at Presbyterian
in 1985, and will concentrate on tactical and technical training of strikers. Additionally, he will focus on offensive set pieces.

FIELD HOCKEY, from page 6

arrived in the last year. The 1988 top freshmen are Francis Fierro and midfielder Mary Russ. Fierro, from Richmond, Va.,
is likely to start at the attack position, replacing junior Christy Sloan who is abroad this year. Pryor calls Fierro
a “steady, composed player on the field with good sense.” Virginia Beach’s Mary Russ is reunited with former teammate Gigi
Cooke. “Mary’s fast, has quick stickwork and is very dynamic,” says Pryor. Russ will most likely play midfield.

On the schedule, Davidson has more games this year than last. The Wildcats travel to Virginia on October 8 to
face new opponents Roanoke College, Randolph-Macon, and Radford, one of five Division I schools they will face in 1988. The
season might bring some success for the Wildcats. The teams will have many players who have played under Pryor for
three years. “We have the same system, the same basics, and the same techniques. We’re finally learning to play with
each other,” she said. With preseason play much improved, the program is progressing. With the field in beautiful condition and
even a new scoreboard, the field hockey team should be ready to attack the new season.

Saturday, September 3, the Wildcats will face area club teams in scrimmages beginning at 10:30 a.m. The season opener is
September 6 at Pfeiffer, and the home opener is September 8 against Atlantic Coast Conference foe Duke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
John Gillikin, Inside Art Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Archie Bunker, Opinions Editor
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Section Production Editors

Planning?

Davidson College begins its school year with more than the usual moaning and groaning from students. Annual gripes about schedules
and whatnot are present, but heard over all else is the scattered roars of seniors living miles from campus.or stuffed
four to a lounge when only months ago they were assured of luxurious new housing on time. One can only
say that given the past track record of Davidson construction, we should not be surprised that the dorms are not
ready. We should be a bit dismayed, however, by the unrealistically optimistic attitude the housing office has had toward revising
dates for the completion of the dorms. It seems that had August 20 not already actually passed, the office would
still be touting it as the date. Even now, its projections of three or so weeks for the completion of
the first building seem a bit unreachable. The dorms have quite a bit more work to be done on them;
it is only fair to those seniors sprinkled throughout the campus and town that realistic estimates be given.

In his epic song, "I Hate Banks," singer Mojo Nixon notes, "I’m not too fond of the phone company, either!"
Just as Davidson students had thought they were free of Southern Bell’s grip, a wrinkle in the ESSX system has
shown up which disturbs the newfound freedom. While students are afforded the marvelous blessing of not having to dial the
892- prefix most of us had thoroughly internalized anyway, it now comes to light that neither collect calls nor credit-card
calls can be made from dormitory room phones. If they are possible, it’s damned difficult. This is a feature not
discussed when the system was announced last year. What’s the deal? Can the system be modified to allow charged calls?
Even though we are lucky enough to be situated in the heart of the colossal Charlotte metropolitan area, one would
expect that some parents would be out of the local calling zone (Mooresville, perhaps?). This shows a lack of planning.
What shortcoming of this bastardized system will show up next?

By golly, it’s good to be back!

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union building, which is one of the buildings on campus that is finished. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor
or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year,
or $25 per year for first class postal rates; go for first class ’cause you're a first-class person. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. Our News Staff, Features Staff, Sports Staff, Photography
Staff, and Circulation Staff are in the process of being assembled. Our Cultural Consultant, as always, is Lee Eichelberger. If
you'd like to be a member of our happy little family, come to the meeting at 8:30 p.m. tonight in
the Big Screen Room.

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to
the following guidelines:
- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25" or 3.5"
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date. All commentaries must
be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected date, except for those on disk, which are due
at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
- Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
- The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which
represent a viewpoint very similar to that of letters previously printed dealing with the same topic.
- All submissions should include the writer’s address and phone number. Submissions to the "Commentaries" section should include the following
information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class.
