2 ————— Friday, September 30, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN News Shorts

Safe Drive needs volunteers
Safe Drive is a volunteer organization which provides rides home for inebriated teenage drivers or for teenage passengers of inebriated drivers. Students who want to volunteer should contact Professor R. Bruce Jackson for more information at Jackson Court #2 or by phone at 892-2316 or 892-8197.

Davidson professor receives $20,000 grant for solar energy research
The American Chemical Society has given a $20,000 grant to Dr. Ruth Beeston, assistant professor of chemistry at Davidson, for research in solar energy. Beeston’s research will be directed at increasing the rates and efficiencies of reactions in which sunlight converts an inexpensive, abundant material, such as water, into a fuel, such as hydrogen. The process involves the absorption of light by a molecule known as photosynthesizer, followed by the transfer of an electron from this molecule to a “quencher” molecule. In the presence of a suitable catalyst, the quencher molecule can then use the “extra” electron to reduce water to hydrogen. The conversion is not yet efficient enough to be used commercially, Beeston says. Beeston was chosen for this grant because of her approach, which involves “building” molecules consisting of a photosynthesizer, a quencher, and in some cases, a catalyst linked together. She will be researching this project through August 31, 1990.

National Science Foundation graduate research fellowships
Applications are now being accepted for three-year graduate fellowships in science and engineering fields. One category of fellowships is designated for U.S. citizens or nationals, the other for U.S. minorities of the following ethnic minority groups: American Indian, Black, Hispanic, Native Alaskan (Eskimo or Aleut), or Native Pacific Islander (Polynesian or Micronesian). The stipend is $12,300 for a twelve-month tenure, with other allowances also available. November 14 is the application deadline for both fellowships. Information and applications are available by writing The Fellowship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20418 or by calling (202) 334-2872.

Bicentennial Celebration of the Presbyterian Church
Regional Presbyterian churches will celebrate the 200th anniversary of their faith Sunday, Oct. 2, at Davidson College. Concord Presbytery, home to more than 100 Presbyterian churches, will act as host to members from the Presbyteries of Mecklenburg, Yadkin, Catawba, Orange, and Asheville. The afternoon festival, which highlights 200-year-old churches in the area, lasts from 3:30 to 6 p.m. on the lawn of the Chambers Building. It will include a hot air balloon, booths, a puppet show, and a historical drama by the Unity Woodleaf Church. At 4:30, supper will be served in Vail Commons, or participants may bring a picnic dinner. Dinner in the Commons is $4.50. The celebration and worship service are free. After dinner at 6 p.m., the Rev. Ben Johnson, professor at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga., will preach the worship service on “The Bicentennial: A Vision for Presbyterians” in Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Davidson College Visitors Center celebrates opening
The Davidson College Visitors Center celebrates its opening with a public reception on October 5 from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. The Visitors Center is located in the Copeland House at 305 Main Street in Davidson, a historic building with a long tradition of community hospitality. Built in the 1850s, the house has served as a hotel, a boarding house, and most recently the Sesquicentennial Visitors Center. It is now home to both the Visitors Center and the Office of College Relations. Hostess Amy Burkesmith welcomes visitors Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. with complete campus and community information. The center is open to civic groups and individuals as a meeting facility. Center coordinator Burkesmith will assist with program planning, scheduling, and catering arrangements.

Prominent Chapel Hill historian lectures on Roosevelt
By HEATH HARDAGE
He was perceived as a “leader of the forces of freedom and hope,” an “all-powerful” figure, according to Leuchtenburg. He was “the first president to make connections with various marginalized groups such as Irish, Jews, women, and blacks,” Leuchtenburg said. He was able to unite the Democrats through the allegiance of lower-income voters, blacks, ethnic groups in big cities, and a “Solid South.” When asked if the Democrats of 1988 could recreate FDR’s coalition, he replied, “There is a larger...Percentage erful Zeus.” He was “supremely confident in his own powers” and “could imbue others with a similar confidence,” said Leuchtenburg. For instance, in Roosevelt’s famous “Fireside Chats,” Leuchtenburg said, “He appeared to be talking and toasting marshmallows at the same time.”

William E. Leuchtenburg’s lecture in the 900 Room last week was not about Hercules, Superman, or even Mighty Mouse. The topic was “Franklin Delano Roosevelt: His Presidency and His Legacy.” Leuchtenburg is Kenan Professor of History at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. His area of expertise is twentieth-century American history.

Leuchtenburg’s hour-long speech was witty, articulate, and peppered with anecdotes and quotes concerning the larger-than-life figure of FDR. Roosevelt came to power in 1933, the fourth year of the Depression. Fifteen million people were unemployed at this time. The President faced this and other seemingly insurmountable problems with a “serene,” “anxiety-free,” and “venturesome” nature, said Leuchtenburg.

A Democrat who was known as “a friend of the people,” FDR displayed openness to groups who were discriminated against and talked about the “FDR Coalition,” or the gaining of votes for FDR and the Democrats. This coalition “endures beyond his death,” according to Leuchtenburg. “The Dukakis vote still rests on FDR’s principles.”

Leuchtenburg went on to discuss the legacy of FDR, which he sees reflected in the policies of Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Carter, and Dukakis. FDR’s “Good Neighbor Policy,” success in World War II, and his development of the United States into the greatest military power of the era contributed toward his ranking as our second greatest president, Leuchtenburg said.

Leuchtenburg has published eighteen books, among them the acclaimed "Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the New Deal," which received the Bancroft Prize and has become a standard historical text. The Ken Kelley Honors Program in History sponsored Leuchtenburg’s lecture. The fund was set up in memory of history student Kendrick W. Kelley, ’63, who was killed in Vietnam. Kelley’s parents were present at Leuchtenburg’s speech, which begins a series of lectures to be given by prominent historians who will visit Davidson in the coming months.

Davidson history professor Ralph Levering, who is in charge of the Kelley Program, and Dave Rochford, a senior Kelley Scholar, introduced the speaker.

PRITCHARD, from page 1

seems to speed up the lines in the Commons and the Cafe.” Freshman Lauren Follmer thinks the system is “okay, but it gives you more.”

Carl Teague has been employed by the College to manage the new Campus Network. He advises students to keep the cards away from “microwaves and eelskin wallets,” as both are capable of erasing the magnetic coding on the back of the card. The cards may be recoded in the Commons using an encoding machine if for some reason they become erased. According to Teague, the process takes about two minutes.

Teague asks that students report the loss of a card immediately. He can then mark the account on the computer and if anyone tries to use it, the computer will reject the card and notify the terminal operator so that the card can be collected.

“Our goal is, as always, to offer the students more services,” says Pritchard, and he is glad that the new system is finally in place. The old manually marked meal card system “dated back to the forties and fifties” and he feels that with the new system Davidson is up to date technologically. Complete implementation of the card is scheduled for next spring.

THE FUTURE IS IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

A representative will be on campus FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1988 to discuss GRADUATE STUDY at AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT. Interviews may be scheduled at THE CAREERS OFFICE.

THUNDERBIRD