, ~ nes — ‘2,
'--Anonymous

On First Seeing
Leonardo’s Virgin

I stand outside the moment’s

Hushed mighty wonder--

Ether blue beauty bend your head but
A half breath

Brush stalled somewhere, stilled and wombed
In morning’s Grotto hole, crag staggard.
Look not upon my mortal eyes with
Those mist pooled pearl shutters laced

In Shadow--

Pine or purse those amber lips--

Speak not!

But keep in vice - steel my lungs and
Furnace blaze my nerves,

Sweep my sights in vortex rapture round;
Wring me like a wetted rag

All limp to bathe the angel’s face.

Freeze me in the final still

Of perfection’s picture-show.

--John M. Gillikin, ’89

Graffiti Bc

And if I
show you my dark side
Will you still hold me,
tonight?

And if I
open my heart to you
show you my weak side,

What would you do?

When my pencil emerges, it is a gnawed-on bone,

Experiencing Te
Please

Unlike some people, I cannot claim that my most significant achievement was overcoming dyslexia, making the winning last-second free throw in a championship basketball game, or being stranded on a desert island with no aspirin that two out of three doctors prefer. Rather, my greatest achievement is maintaining my sanity despite the torments of various machines. Now I'll admit there are some machines I couldn’t live without: contact lens boilers and curling irons, for example. An alarming number of machines, however, seem to delight in tormenting me in a variety of ways. They irritate, frustrate, and embarrass me, destroying not only my sanity and self-confidence, but my pencils and tapes as well. Fighting a rising tide of paranoia, I will describe their vicious, insidious onslaught upon my mental health.

Take the pencil sharpener. Harmless, you say? From bitter experience I’ve learned many an innocent-looking machine is actually a diabolically clever device. Although simple, the sharpener is not altogether stupid. It cannily times its most damaging performance to occur at crucial moments, like right before a test. Once my pencil tremblingly enters that gaping, black hole, it’s as good as gone. Ravenously, the sharpener seizes its prey with its mighty metal jaws, spewing sawdust like flecks of foam from a salivating beast. Agonizing sounds of rending and tearing

and any attempts to write with it are (pardon the pun) pointless. The only thing lacking from this performance is that I’ve not yet heard a pencil sharpener belch in contentment but I’m still waiting.

Aside from pencil sharpeners, a multitude of other machines plague me as well. I especially loathe turnstiles. Although I am not a particularly large person, I am usually assaulted by a revolving rain of blows from their steel tentacles. On the rare occasions that I escape this metal octopus unscathed, I am literally jerked back to reality when the turnstile hooks my purse strap. Feeling like a clod, I furtively glance around to see if anyone saw my it.