Sophomore awarded Truman Scholarship

Donald Joel Snell, a sophomore from Canton, Ga., is the recipient of one of 105 Truman scholarships awarded to rising college students across the nation. Nominees must have a B average, stand in the upper fourth rank of their class, and have demonstrated interest in a career in public service. The awards carry a stipend of $7,000 per year for the last two years of college and two years of graduate study. The selection process started in October with 1,295 nominees. Winners were chosen by civic, business, and academic leaders. Davidson’s selection process was sponsored by the Political Science department.

Charlotte mayor sets goals

What is in the future for the rapidly-expanding city of Charlotte? Sue Myrick, the first female mayor of Charlotte, will discuss the city agenda in an Open Luncheon Wednesday, April 27th in the 900 Room of the College Union. This is the first time Myrick has spoken on Davidson’s campus. Lunch begins at 12:30 p.m. and costs $1.50; the lecture is at 1 p.m. and is free.

Governor to perform with Wind Ensemble

The annual Spring Concert of the college Wind Ensemble may be pleasantly favored with the participation of North Carolina governor and alumnus of Davidson, James B. Martin. This Sunday, April 24th at 4 p.m., the ensemble will perform on the Cunningham lawn in a free concert. All are invited.

Friday, April 22, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN | News Shorts

Three students named Stuart Scholars

Three high school seniors have been selected to receive prestigious Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarships to attend Davidson College. Recipients for the 1988-89 academic year are Marlet Gibson of Tampa, Fla., Jennifer McGrady of Raleigh, N.C., and Phillip Molner, Jr. of Matthews, N.C. Based solely on merit, each of the scholarships is worth approximately $50,000 over a four-year period and covers tuition, room, board, miscellaneous fees, and laundry. Named for a 1954 Davidson graduate who died in a Navy plane crash off the coast of Florida in 1956, the scholarship is supported by the Edward Crosland Stuart Foundation of Bartow, Fla., and by Stuart’s fellow alumni.

Seniors to present historic slides of Davidson experience

Slide snapshots are needed for the annual senior slide show to be held Tuesday, April 26. Seniors are to submit slides from their four years at Davidson, labeled, to their respective houses or to Robert Nesbit (Watts 10, -6297) as soon as possible.

Students capture rodeo title

Seniors Rob Martin and Jeff Jacqmein and junior John “Otis” Wightman won an award in the Great Southland Stampede Rodeo at the University of Georgia in Athens April 15-16. The trio won first place in the intercollegiate division of the 14th Annual Pig Tote Race against teams from Clemson, UGA, and the University of Florida.

Chaplain Search Committee narrows field to two candidates

By EDWARD PATTE

The Davidson College Chaplain Search Committee, in close conjunction with the Dean of Students office, has narrowed the list of potential candidates for the position of College Chaplain to two individuals. The search for a new College Chaplain has been going on since January. Originally the Chaplain Search Committee examined four candidates for the position. No date was given by Dean of Students Will Terry as to when a decision would be made, only that it would be “soon.”

The two candidates that are under consideration have already been through an extensive application process which included: an essay on what they think the job description for the Davidson College Chaplain should be, visits with the Chaplain Search Committee, the YSSC, and the College faculty and staff, and dining at two of the eating houses on Patterson Court.

When asked what qualities are needed for the position of College Chaplain, Dean Terry replies, “it is of first importance that the Chaplain present a vibrant witness to the Christian faith on campus through the Chaplain’s personality and characteristics themselves.” Terry also noted, “the characteristics of the Chaplain should include: an intellectual grasp of the Christian faith, the capacity to deal with a wide variety of students, energy and forcefulness, the ability to relate to students socially, the ability to cooperate with the area churches, the ability to preach and to be effective as a counselor, a vigorous concern for the ethical issues facing the community, individuals and society, and the ability to be a student advocate and to relate to the faculty and staff as a peer.” Dean Terry considers these high qualifications the ideal and will recommend a candidate that best fits these criteria.

Hunger Conference explores problems of wealth and poverty

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

This week some of the world’s leading experts on food production and trade, population growth, and nutrition gathered at Davidson College to examine the issues and solutions surrounding the problem of global hunger. “Hunger in the Midst of Plenty” was the focus of the first session’s lecture held Tuesday morning in Love Auditorium. John Mellor, director of the International Food Policy Research Institute and keynote speaker, linked the existence of pervasive hunger to worldwide poverty. In his opening statement, Charles Ratliff, Professor of Economics, emphasized poverty as a cause of hunger and gave several statistics supporting the connection. According to Ratliff, although the world provides enough output for each man, woman, and child to have an annual per capita income of $3,000 a year, as 7 percent of the world’s population is starving, not all persons are receiving their share of the wealth. Unequal distribution and underdevelopment were the key reasons offered to explain why.Twenty to thirty children die of hunger per minute. Why is it that one-fourth of the world’s population receives 80 percent of the world’s wealth? The governments of these privileged countries fail to provide direct monetary assistance to the underdeveloped ones. Instead, Ratliff noted, the world spends 1.8 million on the military per minute. The majority of these richer countries also produce more food than they can consume. Problems in methods of redistribution cause the unfortunate to starve. Mellor stated that the complex systems of government and society in rich countries create complex problems in “transferring wealth from one place to another.” Poor countries find themselves caught in a snare. Underdevelopment prevents the establishment of a sufficient agricultural base while prohibiting the purchase of food from other countries. As a result, continued Mellor, absolute poverty exists. For instance, 40 percent of India’s population lacks the financial ability to provide for food, shelter, and clothing. However, Mellor notes a source of hope for such countries as he comments on the growth which has occurred in former areas of dearth. Japan in the 1950s was his example. The greater powers, mainly the United States, were skeptical that Japan would ever produce anything the United States would want to buy. Japan’s wealth and booming industry today stand as proof that odds can be overcome. Mellor and several Davidson professors gave possible solutions for the problem of worldwide hunger, mainly by focusing on its causes—unequal distribution and underdevelopment. In answer to unequal distribution, Ratliff developed the answer of a supranational World Development Fund. After several years of research studying agriculture, economics, and education, Ratliff proposed this hypothesis in Pakistan in 1969. The World Development Fund operates through the development of an international public sector institution endowed with the powers to tax citizens and to make expenditures. This proposal differs from the United Nations in that it involves an obligatory rather than a voluntary contribution from all nations. It would also distribute the monetary balance and provide a permanent solution to world hunger and poverty, rather than serving as a temporary emergency action. Ratliff hypothesized that the World Development Fund would give poor countries a sense of pride, rather than the degrading “begging bowl” approach to which many countries currently resort. The establishment of worldwide economic equality would provide a firm base for world peace. Mellor offered a solution comprised of short-term as well as long-term redistribution of food. According to him, involvement must occur within the private sector—businesses as well as individuals, as it is the tendency of the complex governments of rich countries to move slowly to achieve any sort of long-term distribution. Suggested as types of long-term distribution were direct monetary and developmental action which would serve to increase incomes. While governments moved slowly to achieve this ultimate solution, the private sector would work toward short-term advances to feed the starving. In her comments following the address, Louise Nelson, Professor of Economics, proposed a system of worldwide education which would ease the undeveloped countries into agricultural independence. She attributes the current failure of undeveloped countries to produce their own food not to lack of land or resources, but to “clearly discernable failures at the national level: failures to order national governmental priorities appropriately, failures to promote understanding of and sympathetic attitudes toward agricultural affairs on the part of the total population, and failures to develop the requisite abilities of sufficient numbers of people in agriculture-related occupations.” In response to these failures, Nelson advocates a system of national agricultural education programs. These educational programs would involve an assessment of current agricultural education; a complementary program would provide the equipment to put the newly acquired education to use.

Three paintings vandalized at Mike Jarmon’s art exhibit

By LISA GERRARD

Senior Michael Jarmon, whose art show opened April 9 in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, found his exhibit vandalized—three of his paintings marked with streaks of black paint—when he checked it late Wednesday morning, April 13. Professor of Art Herb Jackson said the incident came as a shock because the response to campus art shows is usually one of respect. Jarmon has no clue as to the identity of the vandal, nor his motive. With a good deal of trouble, he said, he could probably correct the works. The paintings are “Dream of the Bull,” an untitled piece, and a painting of a face. Two other parts of the exhibit, a drawing board and skull, were marked with black paint. The person(s) responsible most likely used the paint brushes and paint mix Jarmon had placed next to the drawing board and easel in his show. The art department and Jarmon report no leads. “I call it aesthetic rape,” said art professor Russ Warren. “When someone has a show, he puts his whole personality on the line. It makes him so vulnerable, and for someone to come look at it and then damage it, it’s just hard to take.” “A lot of people don’t realize how personal a thing like this is,” he continued. Jarmon’s exhibit is entitled “ME: A Retrospective of Work.” He has placed a notice near the destroyed pieces which reads—“I am sorry to say that three paintings in this room have been vandalized. Truly sorry. I do not understand the predicament, and would appreciate anyone who can help with my understanding of exactly why this happened or would happen. I can only hope it doesn’t happen again....”