12 Volleyball Wildcats end season with 27-14 record
By MARY FAITH MOUNT

The Davidson volleyball team ended a fine season with a thrilling victory over UNC-Greensboro (13-15, 5-15, 15-11, 15-7, 15-3). After two lackluster games, the team found themselves down 6-11 in the third game before rallying to take the match.

Coach Rebecca Hawkins commented that in the first game of the season the team was behind 2-14 against Winthrop College. The Cats rallied to win that game and the match. According to Hawkins, the team learned in that game that they are “never out of it until the final whistle is blown.”

As soon as the third game was Davidson’s, UNC-G was totally out of the last match. Many players did not begin to play well until the third game. Two seniors, Maria Douglas and Lavetta Dawkins, turned it on midway through the game. Hawkins attempted to alleviate the anxiety both Douglas and Dawkins felt about playing their last match at Davidson. Their play helped motivate the rest of the team.

Mimi Plauche cranked up her intensity and power. She was unstoppable in the fourth and fifth games. UNC-G failed to block her high, hard hits. She provided the offense for the team. Ellen Ott added what Hawkins called “terrific defense.” The team as a whole had 115 digs.

The Cats ended their season with a 27-14 record, by far the best ever. The losses included two to East Carolina, one to Georgia Tech, two to Georgia, and two to UNC-G. Hawkins is concerned about the voids that Douglas and Dawkins will leave. Also, another void will be created since Ott will spend her junior year abroad.

Weight-training, limited practices, and some USVBA tournaments on weekends will fill the off-season for the Wildcats.

Friday, November 18, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Has something really been eating away at you, some problem mind-bendingly big yet obscured from the public eye? Just jot it down, add some authoritative-sounding quotes, and you’ve got yourself a Commer—

BRYANT, from page 11

nity, Stoeckel says he will be happy under current admissions policies. Also, Stoeckel feels he can make certain budgetary sacrifices, if necessary. “I can get by with what we have money-wise.”

Addressing the recent exit from the Southern Conference, Stoeckel feels much like basketball coach Bobby Hussey. Without a conference championship, it is very difficult for his team to receive a bid to the NCAA Regional Tournaments at the end of the season. “It hurts us not being in a conference. We have a very unrealistic chance of making an NCAA Regional Tournament.”

In particular, independent status has forced Stoeckel to set high goals for his team just to have hopes of receiving an at-large bid. “As an independent team, we have to schedule close to sixty games to have a chance to get into a regional,” he says. Furthermore, travel must increase, as the team must reach out geographically to find teams to play. As Stoeckel says, “It causes us to have to go farther to play good teams.”

Consequently, he has scheduled a spring-break trip to Florida for the 1989 season. This will give Davidson players a chance to travel and play good teams and will also give Stoeckel recruiting exposure. Stoeckel believes that expansions like this will increase the difficulty of his schedule, but he sees this trend as healthy. “One good thing about not being in a conference is that it has allowed us to schedule a lot of good teams.” He points out that Davidson will play only eight non-Division I teams next season.games this season, saying “this year our schedule is much tougher.” Although independent status has affected scheduling, it has not really been a bane on recruiting. According to Stoeckel, the opportunity to receive a quality education comes first in the minds of recruits, who then look at the baseball schedule and the opportunity for post-season play. However, without the possibility for post-season play, no real motivator exists. “It’s probably a dead end, as far as baseball goes, as an independent,” says Stoeckel. “The health of our program depends on us getting into a conference.”

The new athletic complex, while not directly aiding baseball recruiting, does give an indication of Davidson’s dedication. “It’s nice to say to people, ‘Look at the commitment that Davidson is making to athletics,’” Stoeckel says. However, recent public discussions about the football program bother Stoeckel. “At a college like this, we need to work our own internal problems out among ourselves and make sure that our differences are not viewed by the public.” In particular, Stoeckel refers to the recent article in The Charlotte Observer investigating the different opinions on the athletic policy. “I don’t think that the article that came out in The Observer was in the best interest of Davidson.” He calls such comments in the article as “bridge-burning” and “not constructive.”

As someone who played two sports at Harvard, Stoeckel supports the efforts to get Davidson football back on its feet. “I’m pro-football,” he says. “I think it’s a great game. I would hate to see football leave Davidson. I think an unhealthy Davidson football is better than no Davidson football.” He believes that ending the football program would remove an opportunity from many people who could benefit from both the academic and athletic sides of Davidson.

Finally, Stoeckel applauds the effective use of Davidson’s resources in attracting high-quality student-athletes. “I knew [when I came to Davidson that] I was going to be working with some really bright people who wanted an opportunity to develop as baseball players.” These student-athletes, according to Stoeckel, contribute to the life of the college and receive a great education in the process. To Stoeckel, that is what a liberal arts education is all about.

Reflecting a controversial new coaching strategy, junior Rob Vest attempts a penalty kick while holding his foot with his hand. An enthralled Pee-Wee Herman (background) watches on. Photo by Jonathan Bouwman.

Junior status is required for students to study at Oxford. This is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. college in Oxford. Oxford colleges are independent and accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Multi-national student housing and social activities are directed by WISC, and cultural tours are conducted by WISC. A special summer session is offered, and transcripts from their Oxford colleges are available. 

The Washington International Studies Center offers summer internships with Congress, the Government, and media think tanks. Journalism courses are taught by senior-level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. All college students with a 3.0 GPA or above are eligible.

For further information, please write or call:
Washington International Studies Center
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 230
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 547-3275