Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Slipping In—
Slipping Out

You approached, stealthily
Settling so casually
Into the cushions called
My life.

You shifted, imperceptibly
Implementing ridges
Amongst silk slips slid over
My plumped up pillows.

You left, quickly
Quietly finding your path
To the door.

I remain, solely
Surveying my silk cushions
Now indelibly
Creased.

-Anonymous

---

Lenore

Lenore and all of her brothers and sisters were at the funeral home on the day that Ralph died. There were hardly any other people in the musty, dark place. Ralph did not have any relatives still living, and he never married. Finally, at the age of 85, he died in his sleep.

Lenore clutched her wrinkled Kleenex and visited with the few people who stopped by to pay their last regards to Ralph. She pretended to be strong, but she was totally crushed by Ralph's death. Although she was in her late 70s and her memory often failed, she would never forget the terrible mistake that she and Ralph had made.

She had only been in love with one person in her life, and that person was Ralph, and when he proposed to her, she was elated. He lived across the river from her and came to her house often to court her. He bought some land in the country and started to build what was soon to be their new home. No one but Ralph and Lenore knew exactly what happened, but somehow they got into an argument about a "boosh." They could not decide where to plant this "boosh" (bush).

They broke off the engagement, and the house was never occupied at all. However, every Sunday and Wednesday nights, Ralph left his small cottage in downtown Davidson, North Carolina to visit "his gal." And as she stood with Kleenex in hand, Lenore's eyes filled with tears. Neither she nor Ralph had ever married. Now he was gone forever.

-Margaret Carroll '91

---

In one fleeting moment everything was fine.
But the time soon returns all the pain
As if once closed wounds are open again.

Blood fills the rivers of the mind
And silver quivers the depths of the heart
While the nerves overflow with signals.

Narrow, tunnel-visioned dreams abound
All but turned into nightmares
As if painted by American Prayer.

Words are the crutches of an emotional exile
But also the blade of a bleeding heart's knife
A twin to the knife that cuts directly through my spine.

At first, leading on by the bridle of the horse
It's all alright and sounds just fine
The mind bordering on the edges of ecstasy and insanity.

Time reveals the lies and the falsehoods
My heart stricken down by trickery
Is there some sick amusement derived through my suffering?

I was willing to open the holding cells of my soul
You just slam them all back shut without care
And not even a second thought about the pain you're causing.

Life is drifting away like a blood-filled cloud
Traveling towards the edges of shadows in the dark
A silhouette in the night; dust in the wind.

---