_By TRIPP HELMS_

The faculty has “evaded responsibility” by deciding not to participate in tenure decisions, said Dean of Faculty and Vice President for Academic Affairs Robert C. Williams in a meeting with the Student Government Association Tuesday night. Under the present system, Williams, President John Kuykendall, and the Board of Trustees make the decision to grant or to deny tenure.

Williams is strongly in favor of establishing an elected faculty committee that would review candidates for tenure and make a recommendation to him. Davidson is the only college he knows of that does not have such a committee. Such a committee would have to be created by the faculty. The proposal has been turned down before, most recently in a vote five years ago. To form the committee would require a change in the Faculty Bylaws, the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures, and the Constitution of the college. A two-thirds vote by the faculty and the Board of Trustees is required to make these changes.

Since there is no faculty evaluation committee, Williams has the primary responsibility for evaluating tenure candidates. The criteria for evaluation are: quality of teaching, professional activity, and service. Although these criteria are not ranked in importance in the “Code for Faculty Evaluation Procedures,” Williams personally considers teaching ability to be the most important and service the least important.

Some students and faculty have protested what they consider a “publish or perish” policy, but this is a misconception, says Williams. He defines “professional activity” as not only publishing, but also attending conferences, presenting papers, and keeping abreast of the faculty member’s specialty. A professor of American literature, for instance, should at least be reading current American literature—it is not necessary that he or she write Pulitzer-prize-winning novels, Williams explains.

Williams believes that this professional activity enhances teaching and is essential to a good college professor. “In high school, you might have a really good history teacher—in college, you should be taught by a historian,” says Williams.

To assist him in evaluating professors, Williams solicits recommendations from faculty peers at Davidson and at other institutions. He also considers student evaluations. The present policy is that all recommendations remain strictly confidential. Only the President and the Vice President for Academic Affairs have access to them. Confidentiality assures a more accurate and honest recommendation, according to Williams, because the writer is not intimidated by the possibility of the candidate seeing the letter. This confidentiality also protects the candidate because possibly damaging information is never available to future employers. In one case, “we have seen evidence that could ruin someone’s career,” Williams recounts.

The problem with complete confidentiality, says Williams, is that a professor who is denied tenure does not know the reason for the denial. He favors a policy allowing candidates to request in writing the reasons for the denial of tenure. A faculty member who is denied tenure has the right to request reconsideration of the decision. The president decides whether to reconsider the case or not—he is not obligated by the request. Williams says that two usual grounds for reconsideration are: allegations of improper procedure and the appearance of new evidence. The allegations would be heard by the Professional Affairs Committee, while the new evidence would probably go to Williams for consideration.

Williams raised other concerns about the tenure system at Davidson. Seventy-five percent of the faculty are tenured, and Williams is concerned that a rise in this percentage would stagnate the faculty. Even in the current situation, the faculty is “graying,” Williams says, and he is committed to maintaining the vitality that exists now. He proposes a one-year “Senior Study Leave” program for senior faculty members. This would give the faculty members an opportunity to go back to school and would “rekindle their excitement.”in their fields, according to Williams. He proposes a similar program for assistant (not-yet-tenured) professors—a study leave in the fifth year. As Williams puts it, “right now we ask them to do research and then we don’t give them time to do it.”

Careers office hosts Scatliff, speaker on service
By MARGARET CARROLL

On Wednesday, January 27, the Careers Center hosted Julia Scatliff from the Campus Outreach Opportunity League (COOL). Scatliff spoke on the subject of community service, and her audience included students representing several Patterson Court houses and other on-campus service organizations.

Scatliff graduated from Carleton College, where she started a community service organization. She is currently a COOL representative in North Carolina and has an office on the campus of Duke University. Scatliff came to Davidson for the day to work with the service task force and to make recommendations about how to expand service at Davidson College.

The students who attended the afternoon meeting were representatives from Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Sigma, Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, PAX, Warner Hall, Rusk, the Y-Student Service Corps, and the Chapel Committee. The group listened to Scatliff’s ideas and then answered her questions regarding service on the Davidson campus. The students decided that their fellow students were not involved with service for many different reasons, including lack of free time, failure to realize the need to serve, and reliance upon the various organizations to fulfill their service requirements. The students discovered several new ideas for getting others involved with service.

WANTED: An experienced waitress for work at the Empress of China Restaurant in the new Cornelius Center near the new Food Lion. Call Kim at 892-9856.

T&R Tanning Salon
Don't wait until Spring to get your tan! Keep your skin tanned and conditioned throughout the Winter.
Phone: 892-3907
Special for Students: 6 visits for only $19.95
Visits must be used within one month of purchase date.

The group concluded that the Davidson community is most in need of students who are willing to give up a small portion of their time to establish relationships with others, whether it be through the big sister-big brother program, helping prisoners, adopting a grandparent, or some other project. It is also important not only to give money to various organizations but also to give time. There are new and exciting ways of getting others involved, and the service task force, along with concerned students, is trying to develop new programs in conjunction with the YSSC, the Patterson Courthouses, and individuals. Most importantly, the group found, students must break barriers of competition and become unified when serving others.

Career Expo
Going the extra mile, exceeding our customers’ expectations, that’s what Barnett Banks is all about. We've never lost sight of our mission: to provide the most comprehensive financial services possible. Consequently, Barnett’s people are chosen not just for their skills and talent, but for their special qualities of dedication, pride, and enthusiasm as well. As Florida’s largest bank with nearly 500 offices in that state alone, and a strong presence in the Atlanta market, Barnett is backed by over $23 billion in assets and continues to grow. In fact, our track record shows remarkable progress in all areas with assets and net income, earnings, and market share on the rise. If you'd be especially motivated by an aggressive, largely decentralized organization in which extra effort is recognized and rewarded, consider a future with Barnett. As we continue to expand our portfolio of services throughout Florida and in Georgia, we'll need your drive for success. So be sure to see our representatives, coming to your campus on February 9, 1988, and discuss our Management Associates Program with them. They will give you the details that could get you started in an exciting career with Barnett. Barnett Banks, Inc. An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. We Set The Standard.