12

Tuesday, December 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Goings on about Davidson

...and an action-packed week it is here in rural North Carolina!

EXAMS: Chambers Gallery, all day.
ICE CREAM: I scream, you scream, we all scream for ice cream! Union Lobby, 10 p.m.

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS BUFFET: D.C. Annual Community Christmas Buffet. Vail Commons, 11:30 a.m.

YEARBOOK PHOTOGRAPHS: Big Screen Room, all day.

PHOTOGRAPHS BY DR. FRANK BLISS: A show of photographs dealing with water. Dr. Bliss is Chairman of the English Department. Union Gallery, all day.

CHRISTMAS PARTY: Dr. Kuykendall’s Home, 3 p.m.

TALK BY PETER AHRENSDORF: “Socrates’s Understanding of the Problems of Religion and Politics.” 900 Room, 10:30 a.m.

SPEAKER: Bobby, 900 Room, 7 p.m.

DEC 14

EXAMS BEGIN: Chambers (where else?), all day.

SONGFEST ON THE GREEN: Village Green, all day.
POP FILM: The Blues Brothers, 900 Room, 8 p.m.

EXAMS END: Yes, you can finally go home and enjoy your Christmas vacation!

From ALTRUISM, page 10

I read some harrowing statistics the other day in my biology textbook concerning the future with regard to feeding the world population. The book states that “the first and most necessary step toward global prosperity is to stabilize the population.” But, “even if the policies that most tropical and subtropical countries have established to limit their own population growth...are carried out consistently for decades, the populations of those countries will continue to grow well into the twenty-first century.” That means that by the time the population explosion stabilizes, we will be sharing the earth with between 12 and 18 billion people, the vast majority of whom will be living in the areas where hunger and other problems are already bad.

This does not present a very hopeful picture. For example, the country of Brazil will need to “double all of its food production, water supplies, fuel, housing, educational and medical facilities, and more during the next 30 years just to stay even.” And Brazil is probably very nice compared to someplace like Ethiopia or Bangladesh. So it is easy to see that the crisis of world hunger is a very serious problem (probably more worthy of attention than Star Wars research) and it is only going to get worse as we move into the 21st century. Being up against statistics like these, it doesn’t even seem like it’s worth trying to solve the problem, so maybe we should just let nature take its course. Or should we?

This is certainly not an attempt to be another whiny article complaining about student apathy, for I believe that what a person does or does not do is his or her decision, but I am asking everyone to simply ask themselves the question “What constitutes doing enough in helping others?” (and more specifically, the hungry) with as much honesty as they can muster. Is doing a CROP walk once a year enough or going to CROP lunch once a week, or participating in a one-day fast for hunger awareness?

I hope that at an “elite” institution such as Davidson College, there are tons of people out there who would be able to elucidate our duty to our fellow man (or whether it even exists), because this article is not intended to state any concrete opinions, but to generate them. Don’t let Christmas break be a barrier of forgetfulness that keeps you from responding. I’m waiting.

Willis Partington is a senior from Lewisville, NC

How about a humble request...

Professors: Please allow me to self-schedule this term’s exams on the next self-scheduling period.

The scheduling computer: Better schedules next year so that when I decide not to waste two hours, I won’t end up taking a class I can’t stand!

Whoever computes my GPA: A gross error in one place would be...

The fraternity brothers: My friends and family: (If not too tired or gentle, pretend I’m well-suited to use much.)

Thenx!

FOR THAT STOPS SPELLING ERRORS SO I LOOK SMARTER THAN I REALLY AM