8 Field Hockey

Davidson loses to Appalachian State, 3-0

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

The Davidson field hockey team dropped its fourth game in a row Tuesday as the Mountaineers of Appalachian State beat
the frustrated Cats, 3-0. Davidson’s record is 2-5-1.

“We’re having trouble playing together as a team right now,” said Betsy Pryor. “But that’s also not unusual for a
young team, and we’re playing with mostly freshmen and sophomores,” she added.

The Wildcats were outshot by ASU, 28-10, and were awarded only one penalty corner to the Mountaineers’ seven. Alison Chapman
also got eleven goalie saves. One bright spot for Davidson was the play of midfielder Marta Bukowski. “She had good
support play, hustle, and an overall good game. She was really thinking out there,” said Pryor.

This weekend Davidson travels to Virginia to play Roanoke College, a team comparable to most of the Cats’ regular Deep
South opponents. Two other weekend matches will be against Randolph-Macon Women’s College, the weaker of the three, and Division I
Radford. “Radford will be the hardest,” said Pryor. “They’re used to tough competition like UNC and Old Dominion. We’ll have
to play our best.”

Field Hockey Thought of the Week: “Good call, ref!” That’s usually what a field hockey spectator will exclaim when the
official awards possession of the ball to the team he/she is rooting for. Often the spectator is only making a
joke of the situation because he/she has no idea why the whistle actually blew. Usually, the official blows the whistle
as the result of a foul—either obstruction or advancing.

Obstruction occurs when a player uses her body to keep her opponent from getting to the ball. Theoretically, both players
must have an equal chance at the ball. Advancing occurs when the ball bounces off a player’s body and is
used to the advantage of that player or a teammate. Most of the time these fouls happen naturally, but no
matter what the intentions are, the whistle will blow and the other team will get the ball.

Who Will Win It All?

By PHIL PRESCOTT

Since this is a lull week for most college football teams, it is a good time to look at the
national championship picture. The first weeks of the college football season have separated the contenders from the pretenders. As always,
the easier the schedule the better the chance at the national championship. Football is the only collegiate sport where the
polls determine who is the #1 team at the end of the season. One of the problems with this system
is voter bias: coaches or sportswriters voting for the team they like or are more familiar with. I can discuss
the virtues of playoffs to determine the national champion but the system will not change any time soon because the
bowls make too much money.

A team from a major conference hasn’t been ranked #1 in final polls since Georgia in 1980. The SEC—Southeastern Conference—wasn’t
very strong when Georgia won. Clemson in '81 from the ACC, Brigham Young in '84 from WAC, and Oklahoma in
'85 from Big 8 were the only other teams from conferences to be ranked #1 in this decade. Penn State,
who won the national championship in 1982 and '86, as well as Miami, who won in '83 and '87, were
both independents. Playing in a major conference—SEC, Pac 10, or Big 10—will nearly kill your chances at an undefeated season.

Auburn and Alabama are the only teams from the SEC with a chance at the national championship. Auburn has the
toughest schedule in the SEC; playing LSU Oct. 8, and Florida Oct. 29, away; Georgia at home Nov. 12, and
Alabama Nov. 25 at a neutral site. Auburn should lose their unblemished record early against an angry LSU team, happy
to be home after 2 straight tough road losses. Alabama has to play Penn State and Auburn at a neutral
site as well as LSU at home. Alabama is vulnerable after losing star running back, Bobby Humphrey, to an injury
and Penn State will probably burst their bubble before the other teams have a chance.

Then we go to the Pac 10 where UCLA and USC both have perfect records. UCLA has the easier road
only having to play Washington State and USC at home, and Oregon & Arizona away. USC has to play Oregon,
Washington, and Notre Dame at home, with Arizona State and UCLA away. USC’s chances at a perfect record are hampered
by their scheduling; it will be almost impossible to beat 2 great teams, Notre Dame and UCLA, in consecutive weeks.
UCLA could come into the USC game undefeated but probably will be upset by Washington State or Oregon, two blossoming
football teams that no one knows about.

With those 4 teams falling by the wayside, we are left with the four independents: Notre Dame, Miami, South Carolina,
and West Virginia. West Virginia has the best chance at a perfect season, playing Boston College, Penn State, and Syracuse
all at home. Barring a major upset, West Virginia should be...undefeated. South Carolina has 2 big games against Florida State
at home and Clemson away. Florida State has the great defense which should be able to stop South Carolina's multi-dimensional
offense. South Carolina still has to play Clemson in “Death Valley,” the last game of the season. Don’t expect Clemson
to lose if South Carolina comes into that game undefeated. Clemson will be psyched to burst South Carolina’s bubble, and
it doesn’t lose 2 games at home in a season.

That leaves us with Notre Dame & Miami who play each other Oct. 15. Notre Dame has Miami and Penn
State at home and Pittsburgh and USC away. If Tony Rice, Notre Dame’s quarterback, can throw the ball with any
proficiency, which I think he will, Notre Dame will win the national championship. Notre Dame has 2 advantages in the
Penn State & Miami game, the revenge factor of losing to both of them last year & playing them both
at home. Notre Dame should beat Pittsburgh because they are a better team. USC is the biggest roadblock, but USC
will have less than a week to prepare for the Notre Dame game after playing UCLA. Notre Dame isn’t going
to let that game get away if they are that close to a perfect season. If Miami were to upset
Notre Dame, they would still have to play at LSU, no easy task. I see West Virginia & Notre Dame
finishing the season with perfect records, playing in the Fiesta Bowl with Notre Dame prevailing.

CONFERENCE, from page 10

Hussey is no different. “I think it’s a good league. It’s a good basketball conference.” However, Hussey sees the diversity
of the league’s academic standards as well. “I don’t think you will find total academic similarity.” Still, according to Hussey,
“it would be our best alternative right now.” If membership in that conference does not materialize for Davidson, Hussey hopes
the administration will look elsewhere. He believes that the Sun Belt Conference is a viable alternative: “I think the Sun
Belt would be good for us.” Although Hussey admits the size differences between Sun Belt schools and Davidson, he does
not believe the larger schools have that much advantage. “It is an advantage in terms of fan support.” But he
also says, “we probably get a higher percentage of our students at the games” than larger schools.

Finally, Hussey sees the potential Davidson class of 1994 as the critical class. Having only one senior on his squad
this year and having received an early commitment, his recruiting roster is set for next year. However, “next year is
the real critical year. We’ll have six seniors who will be graduating.” “The new sports complex is obviously going to
help” with recruiting, Hussey asserts, but he is not sure if it will make up for the lack of conference
affiliation.

As for the upcoming campaign, Hussey likes the schedule. “It’s a more competitive schedule than we’ve had.” But he expresses
concern about student and fan support without those conference rivalries. Overall, Hussey wants to “sell our positives” in both recruiting
and scheduling. Instead of allowing outside forces to dictate what Davidson does athletically, he says, “let’s decide our own fate.”

Friday, October 7, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN
By DAN COTTON

The Davidson College baseball team is looking forward to this spring to try to improve on its school record of
28 wins set last year. The Wildcats have gotten off to a slow start this fall, but the team’s performance
is not as important to second-year coach Jim Stoeckel as is evaluating players in preparation for the spring schedule. “Although
we are one and three at this point, I’m not concerned about the results in the fall. We treat this
as spring training, and I’ve been very pleased with the overall work habits and performance of our players to date.”

Davidson opened September 20 by traveling to UNCC and came away with a 7-4 victory. The Wildcats were led by
a 3 for 4, 4 RBI performance from junior Mikio Aoki and four innings of shutout pitching from senior captain
Jeff Loser. The next day, UNCC visited Davidson and returned the favor by beating the Wildcats, 10-7 with the help
of a 5-run fifth inning. In other action, Catawba defeated Davidson 5-3, and Lenoir-Rhyne surprised the Cats with a two-run
ninth inning to take a 5-4 decision.

Sophomore pitcher David Williams has been impressive with six innings of scoreless work. Also, freshman Mike Liebdzinski has been flawless
at shortstop while contributing base hits and hustle for the offense. The Wildcats' remaining home games this fall include the
Alumni Game on Saturday, Oct. 8, at 9 AM; Winthrop on Wednesday, Oct. 12; and Wake Forest on Friday, Oct.
14. The fall season concludes with a Red-Black intrasquad game on Saturday, Oct. 29 (Parents Weekend) at 2:30 PM.
