The Meaning of Life, page 7

2%

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 13

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Tuesday, December 13, 1988

Faculty committee recommends Division III for all sports

Controversy erupts over use of academic data in study

By JENNIFER L. HOFFMAN and THOMAS H. MOORE

The three faculty members of the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics have released their comprehensive financial and academic study of Davidson College’s athletics program.

The report agrees with Davidson’s trustee committees in their recommendation to move football to NCAA Division III, but with an important condition. If the move ‘is a first step toward Division III for all sports, it is a step in the right direction,’ the report says. ‘But if the trustees do not intend to move the entire athletics program to Division III, we believe this decision will have to be reconsidered.’

It also stresses as its first recommendation that the faculty ‘affirm its strong support for physical education and competitive athletics as a vital part of a Davidson liberal arts education and its appreciation of the positive contribution of student athletes to the life of the college.’

The report outlines four possible options for Davidson athletics, and states that keeping football in Division I would require an additional $1.6 million annually in the athletics budget in order to reach the equitable division of funds between men and women’s sports that federally-mandated Title IX may require. Even if football were to drop to Division III, an additional $700,000 would be needed, according to the report.

It also said that incoming football players score 100 points lower on the SATs than Davidson’s average, and that over the last 11 years, 27% of the Honor Code violations committed were by football players.

The faculty received the report at its meeting last week and the report’s recommendations were passed overwhelmingly. The Davidsonian has obtained a copy, and it is reprinted on pages 2 and 3.

The three faculty on the council authored the report: assistant professor of economics David Martin, assistant professor of religion Trent Foley, and associate professor of history Peter Krentz, chairman of the faculty portion of the council.

Members of the council are nominated to serve by the faculty’s Professional Affairs Committee and are then elected by the entire faculty to three-year terms, with one member rotating off each year. ‘I was interested, but nobody asked me that,’ said Krentz.

Martin, Foley, and Krentz began meeting this summer to address issues raised by a faculty resolution. The faculty asked members of the committee to assess costs, a mandate which they interpreted broadly, said Krentz. ‘Because we were not unaware that the trustees are pretty firmly committed to Division I, we said that if they are committed to Division I athletics, they need to go ahead and drop football, but the report itself is not anti-football per se,’ Krentz said.

Committee members stated that the numbers contained within the report were checked by Athletic Director Kit Morris and Vice President for Finance Bob Sutton’s offices. A source within the athletic department said the numbers were correct. ‘Depending on how you want to crunch them, they’re reasonably accurate.’

Reaction to the six-page report was favorable, according to faculty members. ‘I thought the committee report was a good one,’ said associate professor of political science Tom Kazee. ‘It was carefully researched. It was as exhaustive a look at the athletic issue as we’ve seen for some time, and I think the faculty was pleased that it had some of the facts that it needed.’

Associate professor of biology Verna

See REPORT, page 3

It’s exam time again! A weary Clint Massengill is seen through the eyes of a computer. Photo by Alex Hayden

Self-selection results returned: natives rejoice

Campus witnesses the usual celebrations, alcohol policy violations

By PETER BYNUM

Last Thursday, freshmen turned in their Patterson Court preference cards, and, as usual, Friday night was set aside as a time to celebrate the decisions of court held true to many Self-selection traditions, as freshmen and upperclassmen alike were seen beer sliding, drinking champagne, and enjoying the normal revelry of Davidson. However, an underlying motivation seemed to dictate the events of the evening, a desire to revive the yearly inter-fraternity pledge rivalries.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon set the ball rolling early as goats pelted the Kappa Sigma house with eggs, starting an exchange of several volleys of food. Sophomore Carl van Osdall feels that ‘everybody should be in their own houses instead of causing problems at other ones.’ Later in the night someone stole and smashed the Kappa Sig letters. ‘If this keeps up,’ said van Osdall, ‘it’s gonna be out of control.’ But according to sophomore Clay Adams the ‘biggest coup d’etat of the evening was Pika’s finagling of Rusk.’

It seems that several Pi Kappa Alphas (Pikas), in an attempt to revitalize their party, went over and invited the entire Rusk house to join them. With their floor buckling under the weight of the largest membership on the court, the Ruskies took them up on their offer and migrated en masse to the Pika house.

In addition to its celebratory aspects, Self-selection night also represents the end of the rush season. The fraternities have completed the task of replenishing their numbers, and many students feel that a burden has been lifted.

‘It’s a relief of tensions that tend to arise during the Self-selection period,’ said sophomore Chris Scott. ‘People can let their guards down and get on with the development of more genuine relationships.’

Here are the actual numbers of new members, excluding sophomores:

See SELECT!, page 5