12 Monday, April 4, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thompson, Young, Koch lead men’s tennis in strong season

By WHIT WILKS
and STEWART RAWSON

The men’s tennis team is off to a strong start in the ’88 season, led by the strong play of
Seniors Jim Thompson and Bill Young and Junior Sebastian Koch. The team owns a 13-6 overall record as it prepares
to enter the heart of the conference schedule.

So far, Koch has accumulated a record of 17-1, not a small feat considering the competition Davidson has faced. The
only loss for Koch came against UNC in a close 7-5, 6-4 contest.

In addition to the outstanding play of Koch, Thompson’s record is a very respectable 13-6. He has dropped two tough
three-set matches, one to Oliver Lorin of Oklahoma (ranked individually in the top 10 in the country) and the other
to Mark Mance of Duke University. Thompson defeated both the Virginia and North Carolina top-seeds handily.

At the number 2 position, Bill Young has amassed a 14-5 mark. In the Harvard match, Young earned the distinction
of being the first Davidson player to ever win 100 singles matches in a career.

Coach Frank emphasized the accomplishments of these top 3 performers as outstanding. He noted the difficulty of the competition and
the fact that the players have had little opportunity to work on their games due to the frequency of matches.
Frank hopes that the current lull in the schedule will help the team gear up for the remaining contests.

Additionally, Freshman Kurtis Zabell has amassed a 14-5 slate at number 6 singles with victories in his last eight matches,
including Duke and UVa. Frank is also pleased with Zabell’s adjustment to collegiate tennis.

In doubles, the powerful number 2 team of Thompson and John Griffith holds an impressive 14-3 mark. Junior Blake O’Brien
has returned to the line-up to team with Tim Hagood (number 5 singles, 11-8 record) and together they have won
four of their five matches. Frank commented that O’Brien is still getting back into shape after a long layoff from
the game.

The team has not suffered a “poor loss” yet according to Frank, as all the defeats have come at the
hands of recognized tennis powers. On Tuesday, the Cats host Wake Forest. Get some sun, see some good tennis and
cheer the team on against the Deacs.

Senior Jim Thompson strikes with power and precision. — Lucy Siler

Angry with your publisher?

We know the story. The boys down at Doubleday have screwed up again, and those crowds of screaming fans are
going to have to wait another six months to see your next novel. Instead of flying off to Tahiti to
sulk, why don’t you submit some juicy excerpts to us? They'll be published in less than two weeks, and your
public will love you for it! Call Rachel at -6722 for details. Submit to Inside Art.

1988 SUMMER SESSION
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
CHAPEL HILL

Academic Calendar
Term I: May 16 - June 21
Term II: June 23 - July 29

Cost: NC Resident - Undergraduate 1-5 hours $152; 6-8 hours $215

UNC-CH offers, during two 5-1/2 week terms, one of the largest summer programs in the United States. Over 500 courses
in 40 disciplines. A typical course load per term is two classes of three semester hours each. For summer visiting
students, our "Open Admissions Policy” makes it possible for students from other universities to attend UNC-CH. This admission does not
obligate the University to admit these students for the academic year.

For details, please request a catalog:

Mail to: Summer Session, CB# 3340, Peabody Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599
Phone: 919-962-1009

(AA/EEO Institution)
