8 ee : z 3 ° e e

Himes and Sellers are two big men inside

By BILL SMITH

The Davidson basketball team is currently undefeated in Southern Conference action after four games. Two wins came on the road
at the Citadel and at VMI, each by very close margins; according to Coach Hussey, any win on the road
in this conference is tough—take Marshall’s defeat at East Tennessee.

Two impressive victories occurred in our backyard against Western Carolina and UT-Chattanooga. We are leading the Conference and Coach Hussey
indicates that the Davidson basketball team has not reached its potential. The defense is playing more consistently and “generating the
offense,” states Jeff Himes.

Leading the team in scoring at just over twenty points per game is number thirty-two, Jeff Himes. When asked to
comment on Jeff, Coach Hussey replied by saying, "In his years here, Jeff has proven himself to be an outstanding
player with his court savvy, his quickness, and his unselfishness. Despite standing 6’4” and playing forward, Jeff has been able
to guard and beat bigger players. His quickness in his moves or in his rebounding makes him the better player.
Each year, Jeff has increased his production on the team in both scoring and leadership. Jeff mentioned that in previous
seasons he has tried to lead by example on the court, but now he has become 'more of a vocal
leader.'"

Coach Hussey enjoys working with Jeff because he is so easy to coach. He is a very quick learner whose
unselfishness is a tremendous asset to the team. Jeff’s motivation toward the game is very high but he is never
overly emotional about the outcome of a game. This characteristic greatly helps the overall consistency of the team.

Of course, the most imposing player on the squad this year is junior Bill Sellers. At 6’11" and 240 pounds,
Bill is the “big man” of the team. Coach Hussey compliments Bill’s loyalty and attitude because he is very valuable
in all practices. Bill contributes to the physical intensity of the team by his dedication to improving his play inside.
He is very complimentary of the weight program the team is put through in the offseason. Unfortunately, Bill has been
injured often and his development has been slowed. Bill’s strength has been his passing, and as he gains more confidence
in his ability through playing time, he could be a big plus for the team. Not only has Bill helped
the team directly, but he has been valuable in the recruiting of future players. Bill Sellers and Jeff Himes are
definitely two big men inside for Davidson basketball.

Wildcat wrestlers win fourth at W&L

By HOLME OLTROGGE

Victory was a word rarely associated with the Davidson wrestling team, but this past weekend changed all that. The squad
traveled to Lexington, Virginia on Friday to compete in an eight-team Washington & Lee tournament. The Cats ended up fourth,
only nine points behind third place. According to Coach Tom Oddo, this was the best finish in a l-o-n-g time.
The success was the long-awaited turning point for the wrestlers. The season-long frustrations finally paid off with satisfying victories. Leading
the Cats as always was Tim Heinze with a first place at the 177-pound weight class. Heinze, the most consistent
wrestler on the team, captured his second tournament title of this season; he won his first one at the Campbell.tournament
in December. Heinze’s record is now 19-4-1. In addition, Joe Binns (142 pounds) and Howard Humphries (Heavyweight) took second in
their respective weights, their highest standings of the year. Binns, one of the few semi-healthy wrestlers in the lineup, led
the freshmen this weekend in an outstanding performance. Howard Humphries, a junior, revealed himself to be a truly amazing athlete.
He had had only two weeks of conditioning in the wrestling room before the W&L tournament. Thus he wrestled most
of his matches with pure determination and abilities. Given a few more weeks of training, Humphries will become an even
more indispensable heavyweight.

Another freshman with a great finish last weekend was Holt Foster (150 pounds). Foster had wrestled satisfactorily during the season,
but the result at W&L showed what he could do. The only wrestler who did not place in the tournament
was co-captain Sherb Sentell (158 pounds), who faced tough competition in his weight class. Besides Sentell, the Davidson team also
needed the rest of the wrestlers in the lineup, but injuries prevented them from competing. It was possible that with
even one additional person, the team could have placed third in the tournament.

The victories were the needed prescription for the team’s spirit which had been sagging, especially since last week’s losses to
UT-Chattanooga and Georgia Tech. The squad felt very satisfied now that it had turned the corner. With less than five
weeks left before the Southern Conference Tournament, the Wildcats wrestling team is finally on the right track.

“Where can you start?” In his four years as a wrestler...

PHYSICAL THERAPISTS
PHARMACISTS
OPTOMETRISTS
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGISTS
CLINICAL SOCIAL WORKERS

Frozen Yogurt - Sandwiches To Go - Imported Beer - Wines - Cheeses - Coffees - N.C. Pottery - Gift
Baskets

UNITED CAROLINA BANK

The Air Force can make you an attractive offer — outstanding compensation plus opportunities for professional development. You can have
a challenging practice and time to spend with your family while you serve your country. Find out what the Air
Force offers. Call TSgt Will Wilburn 704-633-6792 Station to Station Collect

Downtown Davidson
MON.-THURS. 9-5
FRI. 9-6

Open for Lunch 7 Days a Week
Check Our Daily Specials
128 N. Main St.
704/892-7521
Opening on Wednesday Nights until 9 p.m.
Live Entertainment

Camp Thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of our
specialized activities and be dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her potential. College students, teachers, and coaches
should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water
sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis,
golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further
information write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird Lane, Clover, S.C., 29710, (803) 831-2121.

First Union loan has a lot of ways to give you credit while pursuing a college degree.

New Banking Power For You.
©1987 First Union National Bank of North Carolina
Banking Offices Statewide
Member FDIC

DAVIDSON
892-8861

First Union National Bank of North Carolina
