| Friday, October 7, 1988

Senior Brian Overcash moves the ball against Dartmouth on Saturday. Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Cats fall in fourth quarter to Dartmouth, 24-3

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Dartmouth Big Green broke open a 3-3 game with 21 fourth-quarter points to take a 24-3 victory over Davidson.
The Cat defense kept Davidson in the game for the first 3 quarters with big plays.

Twice in the first quarter, Dartmouth appeared ready to score a touchdown, but the Cat defense stopped them. On the
Big Green’s first possession, they drove down the field and had 2nd and goal from the Davidson 1. Davidson’s goal
line defense held and forced Dartmouth to settle for a field goal. Dartmouth drove deep into Davidson territory again on
their next possession but could not score. With 1st and goal from the Davidson 5-yard line, Dartmouth looked set to
take a 10-point lead. However, the Dartmouth tailback fumbled, and Cat cornerback Mike Noonan recovered for Davidson to keep the
score close.

Unfortunately, for the second week in a row, the offense was unable to take advantage of the fine defensive effort.
It could only get 109 yards total offense in the game. The rushing game only managed 63 yards, and the
passing game was even worse. Davidson’s quarterbacks Peter Hughes and Nick Crawford combined for only 5 completions in 23 attempts
with 2 interceptions.

The Cats’ only points came as a result of Ralph Isernia’s excellent punt return in the second quarter. Isernia returned
a Big Green punt 30 yards to the Dartmouth 20-yard line. From here, the Cats capped off a 3-play drive
with Brian Jacob’s 36-yard field goal to even the score 3-3.

In the third quarter, it seemed that neither team wanted to gain their first victory of the season. There were
a total of 7 punts in this quarter, and the longest drive took 6 plays.

The fourth quarter belonged to Dartmouth. On their first possession, they connected on a 32-yard touchdown pass to the right
corner to up the Big Green lead to 10-3. Later, Dartmouth picked off a tipped pass and scored again. Peter
Hughes’ pass went off his receiver’s hands and into the hands of a Dartmouth cornerback. Eight plays later, Dartmouth scored
a touchdown and led 17-3.

In the final 2 minutes of the game, the Big Green intercepted another Hughes pass, and the defensive back ran
it back 36 yards to the end zone to put the final nail in the Davidson coffin.

On Saturday, the Cats will try to get their offense on track at Homecoming against the Wofford Terriers. The Terriers
are the only team Coach Vic Gatto has beaten in his 35 games at Davidson.

By HAP BRYANT

Wildcat basketball coach Bobby Hussey has a vital interest in the state of Davidson athletics. After all, his recruiting, scheduling,
and strategy-making are determined by the general athletic policy. Although he looks optimistically on this year’s schedule, he is committed
to the...Values of conference affiliation. The automatic bid to the NCAA tournament, says Hussey, is the biggest motivator any coach
can have. “If you have a conference which guarantees automatic qualification into the NCAA, that’s a great source of motivation.”
In addition, “the monetary value is unbelievable,” he says. In particular, conference affiliation brings revenues from the NCAA tournament regardless
of which team qualifies. Of course, the qualifier gets a bigger cut of the revenue, but the rest is dispersed
among conference schools.

Hussey is concerned about finding a conference in Davidson’s geographic area for both the fans and the players. “You develop
natural rivals,” he asserts. For example, “the Davidson students have had an avid interest when Marshall came to town.”

Furthermore, Hussey views the advantages of conference affiliation for his players. “Conference affiliation is great for team members because they
have the opportunity to receive awards.” “The athletes themselves probably miss most by not participating in a conference.” Hussey also
worries about the academic effect of independent status on his players. He does not like the idea of traveling too
far away for games because the athletes will miss class and study time.

Looking for a particular conference, Hussey believes, should involve many factors. He views geographic location as the primary factor to
consider. By finding other schools near Davidson, natural rivalries will develop that will provoke the emotion of the student body
and fans. Academic standards are important to Hussey, but they should not be the determinant. “In college athletics, I think
academics are extremely important. But when you step on the court, nobody's talking about SAT scores anymore.” He looks to
schools with high academic standards like Duke and Vanderbilt, who hold their own in very competitive conferences while maintaining their
academic integrity.

However, he insists, “I don’t know that you have to align yourself with elite academic schools.” Hussey applauds the NCAA’s
new policies on academics, particularly because they are bringing the academic standards of schools closer together. However, he believes that
“there are going to be some schools that are not necessarily going to be the same.” Consequently, academic orientation should
not choose a conference, Hussey asserts. Everyone in the athletic administration talks about the Colonial Athletic Association as the best
opportunity for Davidson.

See CONFERENCE, page 11

Volleyball

By MARY FAITH MOUNT and CHANDLER SHEPP

The Davidson Wildcat volleyball team remains undefeated in Johnston Gym for the 1988 season. Tuesday night, October 4, Davidson played
solid volleyball in front of its best home crowd of the season. The fans added to the team’s momentum in
dominating Queens College and Wingate College.

Wins keep home record spotless

The Wildcats overpowered Queens, sweeping the first two games of the two-of-three game match. Next, the team lost a hard-fought,
16-14 decision to Wingate. Crowd support helped them rally to victories in the next two games, 15-10, 15-5. Freshman Mimi
Plauche led the team with nine kills, and seniors Maria Douglas and LaVetta Dawkins were credited with six kills each.
