Friday, September 9, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

James Swisher a new father
Talis Michael Friemanis-Swisher was born on September 1 to Rita Prelinhte and Professor James Swisher. “Talis” has blond hair and
blue eyes, and at birth he weighed 7 pounds and 15 ounces and was 20 1/4 inches long. He was
born at 4:43.

Chemistry Department does sun bathing research
Davidson College professor Felix Carroll has received a grant for research that may lead to the development of a product
that tells you when you’ve had too much sun.

Carroll, professor of chemistry, will work with three students for two years to develop the fundamentals for an inexpensive, nontoxic
actinometer to measure the cumulative dosage of ultraviolet light.

The two years of research is being funded with a $43,999 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services
and the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases.

“If our experimentation develops the basic principles, then it will be a question of economics, manufacturing feasibility and human psychology
as to whether someone develops it as a commercial product,” said Carroll.

College entrepreneur contest
I Can’t Believe It’s Yogurt Frozen Yogurt Stores is sponsoring a contest with a grand prize of $10,000 for all
would-be college entrepreneurs. Students must submit their research projects.

Davidson College faces difficulty of attracting new Ph. D. chemists to liberal arts colleges like Davidson, as many now choose
to teach at large research universities. The grant will allow Davidson to attract new talent, said Professor of Chemistry Felix
Carroll. In addition to paying the fellow’s salary, the grant will include a $5,000 supplementary grant from the Dreyfus Foundation.

CHAPLAIN, from page 1
Dean Terry hopes to have a dinner at the Vail Commons open to a wider range of students who will
be able to meet, talk with, and question the candidate. According to Dean Terry, the chaplain of Davidson needs to
be one who is “dynamic” and who “can make his or her presence known” on the Davidson campus. The chaplain
should take an active role in the social scene at Davidson as well as the community service area. He or
she will also program campus-wide religious events and recognize various approaches to personal problems.

Dean Terry is convinced that “the right person will come along.” Until then, Tapia will remain in her role as
acting chaplain by not only continuing events carried over from years past but also by planning new events and projects
and by discovering ways in which the chaplain can better serve the College community.

An Experiment in Community
With the new semester comes an opportunity for the campus community to come together for forums, worship, concerts, coffee and
cokes, speakers, etc. These events will take place during the free hour on Tuesday and Thursday of each week. The
schedule of events planned thus far is:

Tuesday, Sept. 6 Worship, The Reverend Brenda Tapia: Vacation Theology: Help for the Overburdened.
Thursday, Sept. 8 Open Senate Meeting
Tuesday, Sept. 13 Worship, Dr. David Kaylor
Thursday, Sept. 15 Dr. Tom Kazee -- "Is this Any Way to Run a Country?: Reflections on Life in Washington,
D.C."

All events convene in the Gallery, First floor Chambers Bldg.

Can We Help?
- relationships
- cross cultural counseling
- study skills
- time management
- stress management
- sexuality
- family issues
- weight control
- career counseling
- alcohol & drug abuse

Student Counseling Center
08 Union Basement Ext. 2451

Amelia Dockery, Ph.D.
Tom Plott, Ph.D.
Virginia Sykes, M.Ed.
Campbell Peery, M.A.
David Staton, Ph.D.
DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.
Christine Davidson, Secretary

FLURRIES SIGHTED IN DAVIDSON

Norman Crossing Shopping Center:
I-77 & Hwy 73, Exit 28
Lake Norman / Cornelius
892-9873
Lunch Served Monday through Friday
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
