Thursday, October 27, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Posters stolen at 1:00 p.m.

Last week Dean of Students Will Terry sent a letter out to all Davidson students regarding the Theatre Department’s posters that were borrowed to be used as part of the advertisement for the fall drama production 1988. The two posters were removed from the bulletin boards in Chambers’ foyer, and one has been returned. If anyone sees the missing poster, please return it and report the person who had it to the Dean of Students Office.

Davidson College professors discuss the 1988 Presidential Election

John Haskell and Tom Kazee of the political science department will hold a public discussion of the 1988 presidential election on Wednesday, November 2. The discussion is part of the Open Luncheon series sponsored by the Campus Forum committee. A $1.50 lunch will be served at 12:30 p.m. with the discussion to follow. The discussion will raise such issues as voting behavior, campaign finance, how each campaign has shaped up, and key events. They will also make predictions as to the outcome of the election.

ROTC, from page 1

Participants, at least those from Davidson, got along quite well. The manufactured hate, the animosity, and the political ideal that so drives the superpowers apart was not present. Quite frankly, when dealing with individuals rather than national symbols, these barriers hardly seem to exist. However, soldiers do not fight an individualized enemy. As Black emphasized, a soldier fights through reflexive action brought about by training. In battle, he is not thinking of high ideals or national goals. He simply fights for his own survival and that of his unit, which is all that matters to him at that moment. In such a situation, the enemy is best seen as impersonal, existing only in that it desires to destroy what you love. Black admits that it is “difficult when the enemy becomes a face” and an individual with similar hopes, fears, and motivations. Before knowing Sasha, most Americans would see him as one of the “enemy.” As a fellow student, however, Sasha provides a different perspective on a nation and a people who, like us, are only human beings hoping to make it to tomorrow. Sasha himself stated that it was amazing how “similar the Communist and American armies are in their discipline and training methods.” They both fight a faceless enemy.

Though the trip as a whole went quite smoothly, all involved were not so accepting of the presence of Sasha. Cadets from another college questioned, to John Black, the values of Davidson as a college that would allow a “communist” to take part in official school business and especially that involving the U.S. Army. Rather irritated, Black countered by emphasizing the “great opportunity to learn about a people” that we know only from what we have been told. Perhaps by increasing our understanding, we can decrease the chance of war, and that, as Black also believes, should be the ultimate goal of a soldier or anyone else. Though smacking of knee-jerk reactionism, the ideas of these cadets are understandable considering their point of view. They must be trained to trust their reactions and obey unflinchingly in the heat of battle. With typical military flair, much of this training is accompanied by vicious shrieks demanding the blood and first-born of various “Commies,” “Chinks,” and “Reds.” Interestingly, Sasha said that in his training in the U.S.S.R., the soldiers do not use similar negative language referring to capitalist Americans. Moreover, movies and television are not, according to Sasha, allowed to portray what he referred to as extreme “anti-American propaganda” in the style of Rambo flicks or “Red Dawn.” When Reagan and Gorbachev are meeting across the Atlantic and Glasnost is beginning to make some progress, the details of Sasha’s weekend trip with ROTC are, as he himself describes, “no big deal.” The symbolism of the event, however, should be quite interesting to college students struggling to understand our world.

KAHN, from page 1

chaos of the “rapids” into the peace of the “pools.” Kahn, however, feels that“This will take a long time.” After his presentation, Kahn answered questions. The first question asked was whether or not Kahn saw divestment as playing a role in ending apartheid; Kahn says that he sees “the threat of sanctions as being stronger than actual sanctions.” He added that divestment is “an easy concept for here (the U.S.), but a difficult concept for there.”

Columnist speaks on values, women’s movement
By MARIA DOUGLAS

Ellen Goodman, syndicated columnist and associate editor of the Boston Globe, describes herself as “an observer of change. . . I have chronicled it and been a part of it.” Goodman, the 1988 Reynolds Lecturer, spoke to a near-capacity crowd Monday night in Love Auditorium on “A Matter of Values.”

Goodman said that the women’s movement is a good example of the kind of change she writes about. She thinks of it as the “movement of women from traditional roles to new ones.” Goodman explained that some people regard the 80’s as reactionary. The mood in the country, however, is more ambivalent and answers-seeking. She said that we want to change without tearing ourselves from history. She posed the following questions: Are men going to be different? Are women going to be different? Is society going to be different?

“In the early 70s, the women’s movement was divided into two camps: the radical feminists and radical reactionaries.” There was conflict for women to decide whether they wanted traditional families with father-breadwinner and mother-homemaker or no families at all. The decisions were “neither possible nor palatable and were pretty scary,” Goodman said.

In the early 1980’s there emerged a new middle ground. Women felt both the necessity to achieve and the desire not to jettison family life. “America was trying to change conservatively,” Goodman said. Women were trying to keep the best of both roles, female and male, with their own individual security and sense of power, she said.

Goodman outlined the changing myths about women. The myth has changed, she said, from “Super Mom to Super Woman.” Where Super Mom used to be caring and nurturing, Super Woman “has to be caring and nurturing to her 2.3 children while holding down a $50,000 a year creative but socially useful job and being a caring wife.” Now, she continued, there’s even “Super Dad,” who must be “open, caring, supportive and leap tall emotional buildings in a single bound.”

“In both messages, there is a lot of guilt... guilt if they aren’t fulfilling old roles as well as new roles.” The burden of effecting a transition to new roles for women has been assumed primarily by women, said Goodman. The message to each woman has been, “she can have it all if she can do it all, and if she can do it all by herself,” without the help of men.

Change for women so far has been characterized by women forcing their way into a world structured against male values and principles. “Women have had an easier time getting into the male world than changing male-world values.” While the door has been opened to women, this openness has not been extended to women’s values. Most women, Goodman said, instead of being Super Woman are victims of social change and movement and become “Super Drudge-- they have it all and got stuck with it all.”

She encouraged young men to think about relationships with women in new ways and to seek advice from men who are older. She also encouraged young women and young men to talk to each other and break the “conspiracy of silence.” Society too must participate in the change. Private lives depend on society. She said that corporate attitudes toward families have to change. There must be flexible work hours, child care plans and other shows of concern for women and the family.

“In the 1970's we asked can we have it all?” Goodman said as she concluded. “In the 1980's the answer is no, never, but with some help we can get a rich sampling.” Then she added, “For those of you who get discouraged, deep social change is very slow.”