2. Exhaustive Coverage Dept. The National League East and the definitive picks By ANTHONY McCARRON

In this age of parity, prediction is most difficult in major league baseball. Any team, in any division, can win
the race to the flag. The contributions of unheralded rookies, the last heroics of fading veterans, and the notorious “career
year” in which an average player splashes on the scene with a tremendous season, all pose drastic consequences on the
pennant race, in some cases altering it wildly. In a number of division battles, these will again come into play,
spelling disaster for some favorites, and glory for some teams not so highly regarded.

However, these will not be issues in the NL East this season. The East is home to the best team
in baseball, New York’s Mets. In this division, it simply will not matter who has the career years or the
nice, natural blend of youth and age, the Mets will again reign atop the heap. They are easily the most
talented team in either league, and their pitching staff is also the deepest. Perhaps it won’t be quite as easy
as '86, but they will be crowned champions at season’s end.

I’m forgetting the Cardinals, you say, or even those scrappy Expos from Montreal? What about the improved Phils and the
young, dangerous Pirates? Well, I’m not forgetting any of those teams, the East is a tough division. But as I’ve
previously stated, the Mets are not only the best team in their division, but the best in baseball. There will
be some challenge, because there are four or five teams from the East that could switch divisions and win the
NL West, and a load of talent calls the East home, but the Mets are the top club in either
league. Let’s look at the East in order of finish.

New York Mets
Since I began by touting this team, you might be wondering what have they got, exactly? Talent. They have so
much that manager Davey Johnson has to search for a place to play for a .318 hitter like Dave Magadan.
They have power, with Daryl Strawberry, Kevin McReynolds, and Howard Johnson. They have speed, with Strawberry, Johnson (two 30 homer,
30 steals men), Lenny Dykstra, and Mookie Wilson. They have defense, with perennial Gold Glover Keith Hernandez and a steady
outfield. And they have pitching. This is perhaps a strong team’s strongest point. Their starting staff consists of Dwight Gooden,
Ron Darling, Sid Fernandez, Bob Ojeda, and Rick Aguilera. With three fireballing righties and two tough lefties, Met pitching is
going to be a problem for any team. Out of the pen comes sinkerballer Roger McDowell, and speedster Randy Myers
to slam the door on opponents' rallies.

St. Louis Cardinals
The Cardinals are a very solid, talented, and exciting team. They can and will run all day and in ’87
ran their way to the seventh game of the World Series. They will challenge the Mets in ’88 for the
right to go again. Their outfield is dynamite, with Vince Coleman in left and Willie McGee in center, and a
platoon in right. No matter who is in right, this is an outfield that can run down some line drives.
Coleman and McGee can both fly, and provide excellent outfield defense in spacious Busch Stadium. Long balls that could be
out of some parks will be swallowed up by the Cardinal outfield for 350-foot outs. The infield is set as
well with spectacular Ozzie “the Wizard, the Blizzard” Smith at short, turning hard-hit blue darters into highlight film material, Tommy
Herr at second, rotund but able Terry Pendleton at third, and Bob “Pig” Horner at first. Horner’s defense might prove
to be a question, but he will help supply some punch into a lineup of singles hitters and jackrabbits. Catcher
Tony Pena had a rough year at the plate in ’87, but he was slowed by injuries. He'll return to
form in ’88. The Redbirds look strong on the mound, also. John Tudor, Danny Cox, Joe Magrane, and Greg Mathews
will take the ball every fifth day and should supply the Cards with a solid starting core. Help comes in
the late innings in the form of Todd Worrell, who struck out almost one an inning in ’87. This, too,
looks like a team with no question marks, but that is not the case. Whitey Herzog has got to be
wondering what effect the Cards' second loss in Game 7 of the Series in three years will have on his
squad. Can Horner carry the Cards' power responsibilities on his back the way now-departed Jack Clark did? Will his pitchers
come through? Is the Cardinal game of pitching, defense, and speed enough to win again? Most of the answers will
turn out to be yes, but the Cardinals won’t have enough at the end to stop the Mets.

This is a team with an excellent future. They have a strong nucleus of young players who should bring success
to Pittsburgh down the road. This, however, is not their year. They will contend, and even challenge, but they will
have to settle for third. Their offensive attack is blossoming nicely, with Andy Van Slyke, Barry Bonds, and Bobby Bonilla,
developing into considerable threats. Bonds has a splendid mix of speed and power and is fine-tuning his game.Defense is solid
as well, with Gold Glove catcher Mike LaValliere hitting .300 and anchoring the up-the-middle strength, and an outfield that can
run down almost anything. Young pitchers are a question mark. The Pirates believe strongly that they have a strong staff,
but inexperience could enter into the picture. If Mike Dunne, Doug Drabek, and Brian Fisher don’t perform as they did
in ’87, the Pirates could be lost. If, however, they continue their development in '88, the Pirates will be strong.
Dunne finished at 13-6 after his call from the minors came, and Drabek and Fisher each won 11 games. These
are good, young pitchers. If they come through, Pirate manager Jim Leyland could find himself in the thick of a
pennant race. If the pitchers and other youngsters falter, the Pirates will be hard-pressed to succeed. They will present a
challenge to the top two but will settle into third for good.

The Phils made a number of moves to improve themselves in the off-season. Theirs is a club that blends speed
and power. They acquired outfielder Phil Bradley from Seattle and signed free agent Bob Dernier, and both these players gave
them good speed to go along with Juan Samuel. The power comes from Lance Parrish, Von Hayes, and, of course,
Mike Schmidt. Samuel chipped in in the power department with 28 homers, and Bradley totaled 62 extra-base hits in ’87,
as well. Schmidt is one of the classiest players in the league, and also one of the deadliest, smashing 35
homers and knocking in 113 runs in ’87. The Phils have some quality arms, in Shane Rawley, Bruce Ruffin, and
Don Carman, in their arsenal, also. Steve Bedrosian won the NL Cy Young Award in ’87, thanks to his 40
saves. He anchors a good bullpen. The Phils have a giant question mark at short, where Steve Jeltz provides no
offense. They’ll need good pitching to do anything, and there is some doubt whether there is any decent pitching on
the Philly staff after those already mentioned. Even with the bullpen heroics of Bedrosian, the Phils couldn’t win half their
games in ’87, and in ’88 they won’t challenge for the division lead.

Montreal Expos
The Expos have been written off the past two seasons but still have managed to be in contention and challenge
for the lead. In '87 they were not eliminated until the last week of the season. In ’88 they will
get the respect they deserve on the basis of their fine showings the past two seasons, but, alas, will not
live up to them. For two seasons people have been wondering how this team can win with the talent they
have but in ’88 they won’t win at all. The Expos have talent, in Tim Raines, Tim Wallach, and Andres
Galarraga, but this is not enough. They plan to open the season with rookies at second and short, and get
limited offense from their catcher, Mike Fitzgerald. The offense will sputter, except for the talent previously mentioned, and Hubie Brooks.
The pitching is where the Expos hurt the most. The bullpen-by-committee was successful, but can journeymen Andy McGaffigan and Tim
Burke reproduce ’87? Also, manager Buck Rodgers counts on Dennis Martinez and Pascual Perez to take a load of the
starting assignments. They were 11-4, 7-0 in ’87. It would be impossible for them to match those seasons, and management
is insane to think they will. Floyd Youmans is promising, but he was only so-so after coming back from drug
rehab in ’87. Limited pitching is going to drop Montreal down to fifth in ’88.

Chicago Cubs
The Cubs are fighting mad after finishing last in ’87, but they should not get all bent out of shape.
Instead, they should learn how to deal with spending another season in the cellar. Yes, they have Andre Dawson and
Rick Sutcliffe and Ryne Sandberg and Jody Davis. But they were in Chicago in ’87 for that last-place finish as
well. They traded Lee Smith, their stopper, away and got only Al Nipper and Calvin Schiraldi in return. Schiraldi was
useless in Boston’s bullpen and Nipper is not even a .500 pitcher. The pain doesn’t stop there, either. Aside from
Sutcliffe, the rest of the staff is hard put to get anyone out, and the Cubs will once again showcase
baseball’s slowest team. Sandberg is fast, but that’s where it ends. The offense has some punch, led by Dawson and
some youngsters, but this will not overshadow bad pitching. Shawon Dunston has promise, but he disappointed in ’87 with a
brutal year. There are far too many questions and problems here for a finish higher than last.

COUNSELOR/TEACHER
Leader in quality programs for Youth at Risk seeks Counselor/Teachers for year-round wilderness camps in FL, NC, RI, VT, and
NH. Child care/college experience preferred. Excellent salary and benefits. FOR INTERVIEW CALL Rusty Mansel at 1/800-222-1473 outside NC. Inside NC
call (704) 371-8443 or send resume to: ECKERD FAMILY YOUTH ALTERNATIVES, INC. P.O. Box 31122 Charlotte, NC 28231 EOE M/F

College Credit
First Union loan has a lot of ways to give you credit
DAVIDSON 892-8861
First Union National Bank of North Carolina
Banking Offices Statewide
Member FDIC
©1987 First Union National Bank of North Carolina
