Thursday, October 27, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

An excerpt from Mary D. Beaty’s *A History of Davidson College*:

“With regard to the reception of your Sons, there will be no difficulty unless the number [of applicants] should be so great that we cannot receive all who apply.” So wrote Robert Hall Morrison to the father of prospective students in July 1837, making very clear what Davidson’s admissions policy was. The college, he continued, had room for seventy-two students, and ‘until that number are received none will be rejected.’ Jethro Rumple put the policy in economic perspective: ‘so meagre was the income of the College from its endowment that it was necessary for the President to get and to keep, at all hazards, every paying student that could be discovered.’

“Admissions standards were applied not to choosing students but to the placing of a student in a class. In 1844, for example, the faculty was instructed by the trustees ‘to examine rigidly every applicant for admission into college, and in no instance permit a student to enter a class for which he is not fully prepared.’ Thanks to the preparatory class it was possible to place every applicant somewhere. As long as he was of good moral character, would pledge himself to obey all college regulations, and could pay his fees in advance, a young man could enter Davidson College. If he did not know enough Latin, Greek, and mathematics to be a freshman (that is, if he had not read Vergil in Latin, the New Testament and the Graeca Minora in Greek, and did not know basic arithmetic) he could be a preparatory student. If, on the other hand, the required entrance examination before the faculty showed that an applicant had already covered the studies of the freshman year, he could be placed in a higher class. Andrew M. Watson was admitted as a junior in 1846; admission as a sophomore was common. Naturally, there was no requirement of graduation from a high school; there were no high schools as such. The students had been, at best, taught by ministers in tiny academies associated with their churches.

“Indifference to age and to any set date for entering added to the unstructured, haphazard nature of admission to Davidson. James G. Ramsay was eighteen when he graduated in 1841; his fellow graduates Samuel C. Pharr and Thomas E. Davis were sixteen and thirty-two. Students could arrive at any time, with the added advantage that they had to pay only half the regular tuition fees and board if they came after the term was half over. Fifteen students arrived on November 9 in 1846, more than a month into the term. Faculty minutes in 1851 note casually that ‘a sufficient number of students having collected on Monday the 11th of March, the regular exercises were commenced...’ It was not until early in the twentieth century that Davidson made a strong effort to limit entrance to the beginning of a term.”

Assistant Director of the Library Mary Beaty autographed her new book last week in the Davidson College bookstore.  
Photo by Alex Haydenfrom Mary D. Beaty’s *Davidson: A History of the Town from 1835 until 1937*:

“There is no earlier or better example of the private Davidson boarding house than the home of the Thomas W. Sparrows which stood on the third lot north of Danville, the site now occupied by a brick duplex. Mr. Sparrow, a brother of the Patrick Sparrow who taught briefly at Davidson College in its first years, built this house around 1840. No one in Davidson can remember the Sparrows now, for he died in 1890 and she a few years later, but they were well-known citizens of the community in the nineteenth century. He was one of our earliest storekeepers, as his 1840 advertisement for the Brown and Sparrow Mercantile Business shows, an elder in the Presbyterian Church from 1846 until his death, and an enthusiastic supporter of Davidson College whose commencements he attended every year of its existence until 1889. Mrs. Sparrow was equally important in Davidson life. ‘Kind in treatment and generous at table,’ a student described her, famous for her molasses pies and, in fact, for all the food she served at ‘Sparrowburg.’ ‘The swell boarding house,’ a graduate of 1865 wrote of the Sparrow home, ‘and her students acted as if the food they got made them a notch higher than the rest of us.’

“Even after the Sparrows moved to another home in the 1850s, their Main Street house continued to be a boarding house. Mrs. John Scofield, widow of the builder of Old Chambers, managed it in the late 1860s and through the seventies; Mrs. Blair succeeded her in the 1880s until, in 1889, it became the home and boarding house of Mrs. Hatley Barnes and her daughter Florence. Davidson’s old-timers (the author included) still think of it as ‘Miss Florence Barnes’s house.’ It was the second oldest house in Davidson when it was torn down in 1960, and with it went the most enduring example of the town’s boarding house tradition.

“It will be apparent that the development of the town (if such it may be called) before 1850 was completely tied to Davidson College and centered in the road across from it, that is, in the section which now extends from Depot Street north toward the cemetery. By 1848, Lewis Dinkins, manager of the Steward’s Hall at the time, had built the nucleus of the fine building known variously as the Carolina Inn, the Helper Hotel, Mrs. Bohannon’s or the Center for Special Studies. In this book it will be called ‘the Inn.’ Built as a ‘brick store house,’ it was only about half its present size in 1848 but handsome nevertheless, designed to be in keeping with the architecture of the new literary society halls directly across the road. Leroy Springs was operating a store and possibly an inn, as well, in the building by 1850. The beginning of its long association with the Helper family still lay several years in the future.”