Field Hockey Volleyball
Friday, September 30, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats win three matches
By CHANDLER SHEPPARD

Led by the “Freshman Connection” of Holt Hathaway and Mimi Plauche, the Davidson Wildcats have played well as a team,
winning their last three matches and improving their record to 6-6. The Cats defeated Gardner-Webb College last week in Boiling
Springs and returned home to defeat Coastal Carolina and Campbell University decisively.

Hathaway and Plauche have become almost unstoppable around the net. Plauche has led the team in hitting the last two
games and has been counted on for the almost automatic point or side out. Against Coastal, the Wildcats were in
total control. Despite losing the third game, the Wildcats played well, emerging with a 15-12, 15-3, 10-15, 15-6 victory. The
Wildcats were sparked in the fourth game with strong hitting from senior Lavetta Dawkins.

Davidson began to play up to their potential in the match against Campbell, destroying them 15-13, 15-0, 15-4. The Cats
dominated the entire game with an all-out team effort and strong defensive plays by Maria Douglas and Christy Knight. Hathaway
used the entire net in setting to teammates Dawkins, Plauche, Peggy Tietgen, Ellen Ott, Douglas, and Molly Graver.

Following a weekend tournament at Wingate, the squad will be back home Tuesday, Oct. 4 with matches against Wingate and
Queens College at 6:00. On Oct. 6, the Cats will take on Belmont Abbey in Belmont.

Senior Maria Douglas puts one up against Coastal Carolina. Photo by Brett Berry

Lady Cats drop third straight, are 2-4-1.
By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

Tuesday afternoon, the Davidson field hockey team lost its third straight game to Pfeiffer College, 4-1, dropping the team record
to 2-4-1. The Wildcats began the game rather tentatively but seemed like they would gain control afterwards. Unfortunately, the Cats
were forced to play more defense than offense and never got control of the game.

Fourteen minutes into the game, Pfeiffer scored the first goal on a seven-yard penalty hit which was awarded after Davidson
goalie Alison Chapman grabbed the ball during a ground scuffle and failed to drop it on the same spot that
her grab was made. This penalty hit situation consists of a one-on-one matchup between a player and the goalie and
is very difficult to defend.

With 3:30 left in the first half, Pfeiffer struck again with a goal from Kelly Clatterbuck, and Davidson’s deficit stood
2-0 at halftime. Thirteen minutes into the second half, Gigi Cooke got the Wildcats’ first goal on another seven-yard penalty
hit, similar to the situation in the first half. At the 17:50 mark, just as the Cats seemed to be
getting fired up and ready to tie the score, Pfeiffer’s Greta Demchak scored on a beautifully executed corner hit. The
ball slipped right between Chapman and the near left corner of the goal cage. About a minute later, the Cats
all but let the game get away as the defense overcommitted, allowing Clatterbuck her second goal of the game for
the 4-1 final.

Saturday, September 24, Davidson suffered a disappointing 2-0 loss at Catawba College. Coach Betsy Pryor felt that the problems were
“something we can fix. We had lots of offensive pressure but weren’t consistent enough.” According to Pryor, mental mistakes were
made, like the sweeper’s commitment at the wrong time, leaving three players charging the goal. “We have the ability, but
we’ve just been mentally out of our last two games,” she said.

NOTES: The October 1 home game against Methodist CollegeHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

has been cancelled because Methodist was unable to field a team this year. Also, midfielder Marjorie Havighurst is back in
the starting lineup after having recuperated from a sprained ankle.

Field Hockey Thought of the Week: What the heck is a corner hit? This is a penalty hit awarded to
the offensive team as a result of a foul against the defense inside the 16-yard (radius) circle in front of
the goal. This situation provides a good chance for a score. The ball is placed on the endline at a
hashmark 10 yards to the side of the goal. To begin the play, a player hits the ball to a
teammate who is standing outside the boundary of the circle. After this receiver stops the ball dead, she, or another
player, can shoot the ball toward the goal. Some teams set up corner hits by having one player near the
ground to “stick-stop” the ball by placing the entire stick on the ground with the flat end facing the ball.
Then they have another player shoot the ball after the stick-stopper gets out of the way. The team defending corner
hits can only have five of its players (including its goalie) stopping the ball. All players not involved in a
corner hit situation must be behind midfield until the ball is initially hit. If the player shooting the ball toward
the goal takes a backswing, the ball must hit the 18-inch high board that lies inside the cage in order
to count. If no backswing is taken, the ball counts as a goal wherever it lands—as long as it goes
in the goal.

Wednesday Nights, 7 - 9 p.m.

Davidson opened the scoring at the 52:45 mark and added to their lead with another goal at 61:58. October “Kine
Kop” Davidson cut the lead to 2-1 at 77:44 on a goal by Friedlander. UNC-G quickly ended any comeback hopes
with a goal off an errant pass by Scott Poisson. The final goal came with 9 seconds remaining in the
game. Davidson (3-7-1) next faces Birmingham Southern Saturday at 11:30.

JIM WALKER, from page 9

The 49ers finally put the contest out of reach when an errant back pass was intercepted and the ball chipped
over goalie Scott Zucker. The battle against the state university system continued yesterday as the Cats took on UNC-Greensboro. The
first half was scoreless.

128 S. Main St. Davidson, NC

UNC-G HAIR DESIGNERS STUDIO

Corner of Hwy. 115 & Faith Rd. (3 Miles North of Davidson College)

Morris said the Wildcats are hoping to finish the fall season with at least two more tournaments in preparation for
the main spring season. There are several possible dates, which have not yet been fixed.

For sale -- Best Offer.

ONE FINE WEDGEWOOD COMMEMORATIVE PLATE ISSUED IN 1937, FEATURING THE CHAMBERS BUILDING.

CHILDREN'S HAIRCUT & STYLE .........$3.00

HAIRCUT & STYLE......$5.00 (Male or Female)

Make Offer to: WILLIAM BAUGH

PERMANENT WAVES Start At $25.00

624 SOUTH ST. --No Appointment Necessary--

LAFAYETTE, INDIANA 47901. Call 892-7952 or 892-6982

---
