cS)

Welcome, parents!

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 9

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, October 27, 1988

South African sociologist traces country’s roots

By GARY WHEELER

Stan Kahn, a South African sociologist and educator, who is in the United States for two months, spoke on South
Africa in Chambers Gallery October 25.

His address focused on “how South Africa actually is [today].” Kahn also spoke on “Education in Black South Africa” at
the Open Lunch in the 900 Room October 26. Kahn says that South Africa’s racial problem is deeply rooted in
history: “Race reared its ugly head... when the Dutch arrived and came in contact with the natives.” Since then everyone
has had a “racial tag,” he says. These tags are permanent and dictate the structure of everyone’s life.

Racial tags were not the only source of friction in South African history. Kahn cited the division of Europeans in
South Africa, a split between the English-speaking settlers and the Afrikaaners or Boers—settlers from France, Germany, and other areas of
Europe.

Kahn says, “The Boers resented British authority enormously” and in the Anglo/Boer war, the Afrikaaners “gave the British a good
run for their money.”

Eventually, British strength was too much for the Afrikaaners, and in 1910 a Union was established in South Africa. As
a result, restrictions were placed on blacks, Kahn says. One example is that “eighty percent of the population [the blacks]
were restricted to thirteen percent of the land.”

When the Nationalist Party took power in 1948, much of the segregation that had already existed became formalized. Kahn says,
“a whole range of laws” formalized segregation in education, hospital care, and services “from cradle to grave.”

Today, as a result of this segregation, Kahn says that the revolt in South Africa has taken its toll on
the educational system. The present group of students, grades kindergarten through 12th, “has seen nothing but disruption,” he says.

Kahn expressed a reserved optimism for the future of South Africa. Kahn holds a mental image of South Africa as
a canoe on a river, eventually making it through the rapids.

See KAHN, page 2

Soviet veteran finds that glasnost has reached Davidson ROTC

By DAVID SCOTT

This past weekend, members of the Davidson ROTC department took part in a ropes course exercise in Statesville. The somewhat
routine outing took an interesting turn when one of the spaces not filled by ROTC personnel was filled by Sasha
Kon, an exchange student from the Soviet Union who has served his required two-year stint in the Russian army.

Though somewhat unaccustomed to Soviet citizens taking part in the drills of the U.S. Army, Lt. Colonel William Diehl, head
of the Davidson ROTC program, granted Sasha permission to participate just as he would any other Davidson student.

Taking into account possible anti-Russian bias or problems with army regulations, Sasha was required to wear a uniform bearing no
official U.S. army insignia.

Sasha, who stated that he does “not much like the military spirit,” still felt it quite interesting to note the
similarity between the American army and the one he served at home.

It is difficult to imagine such tolerance in America, which was until fairly recently dominated by the opinions expressed in
early Reagan anti-Soviet rhetoric. To many Americans conditioned to an automatic antagonism against anything Russian, a Soviet citizen anywhere near
United States soldiers should serve as nothing more than a possible target.

The fact that Sasha is able to attend Davidson, much less participate in an ROTC exercise, represents on a small
scale some of the greater understanding that may be developing between two competing superpowers.

Questions of political ideals or international conflicts did not, however, disrupt the Davidson group in any way. By functioning together,
the team “handled all obstacles of the ropes course smoothly,” according to senior John Black.

This course consists of a low ropes and a high ropes section. The low ropes involve obstacles mostly near to
the ground including a twelve-foot wall which each member must scale. These serve as preparation for the high ropes which
involve obstacles at near tree-top level.

This course is designed to reveal to the soldier the necessity of subjecting his individuality to the will and purpose
of the group.

As Black noted, “In this situation you’re not thinking about large scale conflicts or ideals but about group cooperation and
helping your companions.”

Having served his two-year stint in the Soviet military, the rigors and stern discipline of military exercise were nothing new
to Sasha. However, the novel setting left him, as he put it, “a little bit uncomfortable,” thus guaranteeing himself the
understatement of the month award.

It must have been strange to line up, take orders, do push-ups and work with the very people who represent
the power posing the greatest military threat to his own homeland. Yet for the most part, Sasha and the other
participants managed to bridge the gap between their respective backgrounds and work together effectively.

See ROTC, page 2

A HISTORY OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

by Mary D. Beaty

BRIARPATCH Press DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Assistant Director of the Library Mary Beaty’s new book, A History of Davidson College, hit the shelves last week. Over
the next three weeks, The Davidsonian will present excerpts from the new book and Beaty’s earlier work, Davidson: A History
of the Town from 1835 until 1937. See page 5.
