Features The Davidsonian Friday, March 11, 1988

Soprano Carole Fitzpatrick sings on March 16, at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall (see below). Photo courtesy of Carole Fitzpatrick.

Arts Bits

The Davidson College Concert Choir will perform on March 11 at 8:15 p.m. During spring break, the choir will tour.
Frank S. Albinder directs the 41-voice Concert Choir. Admission is free.

The Davidson College Dance Troupe will be performing a cross-section of modern dance, jazz, and ballet on Saturday, March 12
in Hodson Hall at 7:30 p.m. Paulette Kurani founded the Dance Troupe in 1983 for girls who wanted to continue
dance in college. In 1984, the troupe evolved into a service organization, performing for CROP, Amnesty International, and Women’s Week
in addition to their feature spring performance. Currently, the Dance Troupe is composed of men and women ranging from the
amateur to the senior art major. One of the more modern pieces, a dance inspired by Peter Gabriel’s Rhythm of
the Heat, will be performed.

On Wednesday, March 16, soprano Carole Fitzpatrick from Austin, Texas, and pianist James Swisher are scheduled to present a concert
with music by Bach, Debussy, Copland, and Wolf. Fitzpatrick holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of Texas and two
master’s degrees in music from Yale University. She has performed in many operas, including La Boheme, Eugene Onegin, and Carmen.
She has also sung in musicals: she was Dolly in Hello Dolly! and held a minor role in South Pacific.
Her oratorio performances include the Brahms and Mozart Requiems, Bach's Magnificat and Christmas Oratorio, and Handel’s Messiah. This performance is
scheduled for 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The program is sponsored by the College Union Chamber Music Series.

Action Jackson: a mere shadow of an action film
Little violence, lots o’ hooters
By BRUCE PLOURDE

Just who is Action Jackson? He is the most feared enforcer of the law in all of Detroit. Robocop just
doesn’t compare. He’s so dangerous they don’t allow him to carry a gun. Nobody really knows where he came from.
Some say he was built by NASA to be the first man to walk on the moon without a space
suit. Others say that his mother was raped by Bigfoot, and that Jackson is the result. A lean, mean incarcerating
machine, nobody tangles with Action Jackson without some alterations in their person. At least that’s the big buildup of not
only the previews and advertisements but the first twenty minutes of the movie as well.

As it turns out, the audience soon finds that Sergeant Jericho Jackson (Carl Weathers) is the mere shadow of his
former self. His action days disappeared with the loss of his rank as lieutenant. All that remains of the desk-bound
hulk is the reputation of days gone by. As such, the movie drags. For what does one go to see
in an action picture? What does one expect from Carl Weathers, the athletically built star of Predator and the Rocky
movies? Certainly not the Martin Luther King figure that he plays here. Jackson exerts himself to the utmost.to avoid trouble
until the very end of the film, when the audience receives what it expects, a rather intense catharsis through violence,
after which every problem works out to the advantage of the hero. Hooray. Craig T. Nelson as the villainous Peter
Dellaplane has the better of the two roles. He takes great delight in his life of total corruption and abuse
of power. The respected builder of the Halley automobile, he lusts for the ultimate power made available in a capital-

See ACTION, p. 5

Bry, Hepburn, Grant shine in Bringing Up Baby

By FRANK LORD

Charles Colton once said, “Imitation is the sincerest flattery.” If that is true, then almost everyone who ever made a
comedy must have wanted to flatter Howard Hawks in general and this film in particular. Its imitators run the full
gamut of the spectrum from The Flintstones (thanks for the observation, Drew Henderson) to Who’s That Girl? - yes, that
was Madonna’s last film. Having seen many of the imitations as well as the original, I can safely say that
I prefer Hawks' version to any of the others.

The plot of the film involves a flaky paleontologist - played by Cary Grant - who is trying to finish
putting together the skeleton of a Brontosaurus that he has been working on for four years, obtain a million-dollar donation
for his museum, and get married. Things are fine until he runs across an equally flaky heiress - played by
Katharine Hepburn - and her leopard named Baby. The set up is ripe with opportunities for amusing situations and Hawks
does not miss a single one. All of the trials, tribulations, and complications that the protagonists go through as this
film winds its way to the denouement cannot help but make you chuckle.

The operative problem with any film that has been copied as frequently as this one has is that everyone already
knows the punch lines for all the jokes. There is no way that it can help but be predictable. However,
Hawks, with his masterful handling of the situations in the film, reaches a level of craftsmanship that none of his
imitators even approach. Predictability is a factor, but not a very important one.

Another, perhaps more serious, problem comes not from the film itself, but from the jaded eyes of a 1980s audience
watching a 1938 film. During the 1960s, it became possible to make films on almost any given subject. Censorship, which
had played an important role in film history up to this point, began to be less important than it had
in the preceding years. Consequently, many individuals involved in the film industry thought that it might be nice to have
almost all comedies involve sex and violence. The resulting films made their predecessors look very, very tame.

Therefore, if it is sex and violence that your corrupt little heart craves you must look elsewhere, but if what
you want is to spend an entirely enjoyable hour and a half with Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn, then this
is the film for you. The performances by Grant and Hepburn are marvelous. If you like these actors, but have
never

See BABY, p. 5
