6 Thursday, September 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEW DAVIDSON FACULTY, CONTINUED

Bonnie Marshall, Russian

Another new arrival at Davidson this year is Russian professor Bonnie Marshall, who comes to us from the University of South Alabama (most recently), as well as numerous other places such as Boston University, Wake Forest, and Duke, to name a few. Marshall has received her Ph.D. in Russian Literature from Chapel Hill. Within her first month at Davidson, Marshall has become quite optimistic concerning her future here. “The Russian program certainly has room to be developed here,” remarks Marshall. “There is widespread interest in the language and the students are eager to learn.” This fact is evident since Marshall has had to open another section for beginning Russian this term due to the demand. When asked “Why Russian?,” Marshall was at a loss for a clear-cut reason: “It’s totally illogical,” she remarks, “I fell in love with it, especially the culture.”

Jennifer Bean

Russell Snapp, History

Want to be immersed in the intricacies of the English expansion in the U.S., various colonial wars, and other things not normally thought of in everyday life? Dr. Russell Snapp is the man to do it. This year is Snapp’s first as part of the Davidson College community. After getting his B.A. from Sewanee and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard, Snapp finally makes his home here. “I like the people and how friendly they are.” When not busily teaching class, he relaxes by swimming, reading, or traveling. He admits, however, “I like to read novels, but there isn’t very much time for that now.” Although Snapp finds Davidson a nice place, he does have a few suggestions for its improvement. “I guess I would like for people to become more confident with diversity. I would like to see people become more open to having different types of people in the academic community.”

Hilary Coman

Sally McMillen, History

Which new professor specializes in southern history, has a son who is a budding pianist at Oberlin Conservatory, and hopes to teach a course in American medical history here someday? If you guessed Sally McMillen, you are correct. McMillen comes to Davidson from Middle Tennessee State University. Although a California native, she is no stranger to North Carolina.

Mary Nell Saunders, Music

Mary Nell Saunders is a native North Carolinian and has been in Charlotte since 1977. She received her Ph.D. in music at Indiana University in Bloomington. In Charlotte, she is director of the Oratorio Singers, the Youth Oratorio, the Chamber Chorus, as well as Choir Master at Trinity Presbyterian Church and Artistic Director for the Charlottetown Players. Here at Davidson, she teaches the Opera Workshop, Composers and Styles, Conducting, and will take the Choir on their spring tour. She has been married for one year to Marc Cedell, the assistant conductor of the Charleston Symphony. Her favorite composer is Bach and her favorite pastime is yard work. In her next life, she would like to do landscape engineering. And last but not least, she has a 6-year-old Keeshond named “Winston.”

Tim Jacks

Alex Pinkston, Theatre and Speech

Alex Pinkston from Lakeland, Florida,Loves Davidson because of “the friendly administrators and highly motivated and talented students.” “Where else would I have a fireplace in my office,” he adds. She has also taught at Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. With a BA and MA in theatre from the University of Florida, and a PhD at UCLA, Pinkston is well qualified. His specialties involve acting and directing, especially one-act productions. He has worked at Marquette University and the Florida School of Art. Pinkston has also performed himself with various theatre companies, acted in a few low-budget films, and even appeared on the soap opera The Young and the Restless.

Definitely a man who likes to stay busy, Pinkston dances, does aerobics, plays golf and tennis, and swims. He claims it’s to “beat the cholesterol.” Other interests of his include ballet, symphony, and his “little kitty for company.”

Davidson has impressed McMillen in the short time she has been here. Anjali Sharma says, “Davidson students are spirited. They always come to class with a great deal of energy and talk a lot,” she raves.

Grace Mitchell, education

Mitchell, a 16-year resident of Charlotte, is especially interested in the history of the Old South and the New South, as well as American women’s history and a survey of American history. Mitchell is the latest addition to the education department. She has recently published a book on the queen city.

Virginia Mischen

Interested to meet the students of Davidson, Magdalena Maiz-Pena, Spanish

A Mexican, Magdalena Maiz-Pena has strong family values, which is one reason she likes Davidson. She has good friends and neighbors, good colleagues, and great students. “They make you feel at home,” she says, which is saying a lot since she loves Mexico and misses it.

Maiz-Pena comes to Davidson after having procured a degree in Mexico and a Ph.D. at a university in Arizona. She has also spent a year each in Dublin, Ireland, and in France. She applied to teach at Davidson because of the “quality of people” that the school attracts.

Two loves of Maiz-Pena are reading and learning, both of which she feels is a never-ending process. Her articles have been published in newspapers, and they deal primarily with Mexican or Latin-American culture. Maiz-Pena’s special area of interest is women’s issues within various cultures, her views on which she publishes under titles such as “Disguise” and “Intimacy and Women.” Maiz-Pena loves America, and she is very sure that the Anglo-Saxon culture is more complex than we realize.

Anjali Sharma

Just in case you weren't aware of it, Davidson does have an education department. This year, McMillen is teaching history of the Old South and the New South, as well as American women’s history and a survey of American history. Mitchell has spent many years teaching in public schools, has worked as a history professor at UNCC, and has coordinated an adult master’s program.