Student directory inside! See B1-B4

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 1

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Monday, August 29, 1988

“President John Kuykendall and Director of Residence Life Tom Jennings announced that the construction will be completed by August 20.”
The Davidsonian, February 15, 1988.

Photo by Alex Hayden

News

- A water main ruptured underneath I-77 last week, disrupting the town and college water supply for several days. Amid
fears of weeks of repairs, the damage was contained quickly, making outdoor reading stops for students such as senior Sheri
Reynolds, above, unnecessary.

Features

- “In Concert”: Hand-Colored Photographs by Susan Page, September 1-30 in the Foyer Gallery of the Chambers Building. Everyone is
invited to the opening September 1 from 5-7 p.m. Page exhibits twenty hand-colored photographs of musicians at practice in an
effort to show what music “looks” like.

- On July 9 this summer, English Professor Cynthia Lewis married Director of Development & Alumni Programming Jamie May (below).
The small wedding, held in the living room of Lewis’ home, was followed by a campus reception. Afterward, Dr. and
Mr. Lewis drove to Maine for a two-week honeymoon.

Sports

- Work proceeds apace on the Baker Sports Complex. Over the summer, construction workers were able to put up much
of the steelwork that will support the structure. The scheduled completion date is fall 1989.

By TRIPP HELMS

Southern Bell has installed a new phone system in dorms and offices on the entire Davidson campus. All dorm rooms
are now equipped with phone lines on a new 896 exchange, and the cost for local service has been absorbed
by tuition.

Each student can, for a $10 fee, receive a 7-digit personal access code which allows long-distance phone calling on the
new system. This long-distance service is discounted 10 percent below regular AT&T rates.

Calls within the college campus can be made by dialing the last four digits of the desired phone number; for
example, the Union is -2140, and call waiting service is also included in the new system.

To make a local call, students must dial 9, wait for a dial tone, then dial the number. For long
distance, students must dial 8, wait for a tone, then dial their personal access code and the area code and
telephone number.

Many complain that to make a long-distance call requires 18 digits. With a few busy signals, it could take 72
keystrokes to call home. Meanwhile, Mom and Dad, it’s too much trouble.

Some students miss certain services not included in the ESSX system that are usually taken for granted in most Southern
Bell systems. For example, students cannot make credit card calls or collect and other operator-intensive calls on the new system.
