Wednesday, February 10, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN 75

We at Duckhead Industries, aware of the dropping sales of our product, have decided to introduce the official Duckhead Cut-Out
Doll, complete with three outfits for all occasions. Cut out and enjoy!

Fashion Plate: Fashion Plate: Fashion Plate:
1. Frat Wear 2. 1970s Kiss-Me Cut? 3. The Interview with Another Charlotte Bank Suit

Navy Blue Blazer
Spiked Leather
Cut-Off Duckhead Straps
Pants
Duckhead Pants
w/Loafers

See for Tan Blazer

The New Ones have arrived.
Good Colors.
Come select yours today.
See the new Peninsula sportswear separates.
Open 9 a.m. till 5:30 p.m.
Apparel for Men and Women
128 N. Main St.
Downtown Mooresville
664-4711 or 663-3701.

Bill Giduz

Joe Steele (left) and Bobby Kerriker demonstrate the operation of the newly-restored old well fountain.

Tired of writing Humes papers? Looking for that life in the fast lane that only a stint in journalism will
allow? Write for The Davidsonian. Scandals! Corruption! Power! Intrigue! Where else can you write a piece on IMAC and another
calling for the Administration to resign in the same week? Talk to an editor for details.

$167.
Includes:
1) Round trip transportation
2) Seven nights accommodation at one of Daytona’s finest hotels
3) Free pool deck parties "everyday" plus other entertainment
4) Optional one-day excursions to Disney World, Epcot Center, Deep Sea fishing, and many others
5) SUN, SAND, WATER, GIRLS, and BOYS from other colleges

Camp Thunderbird
Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized
activities and be dedicated to helping each individual child develop his or her potential. College students, teachers, and coaches should
apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD is located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., on Lake Wylie, S.C. The camp has an outstanding
program in sailing, motorboating, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing, with an added emphasis placed on the land sports (general athletics,
tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For
further information write or call Camp Thunderbird, One Thunderbird Lane, Clover, S.C., 29710, (803) 831-2121.

Meet Sat. at Sentelle 2nd Floor at 4:00 p.m.
