Tuesday, December 13, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

Chapel Committee sponsors Awareness Weekend January 13-15

The Chapel Committee is sponsoring Awareness Weekend January 13-15. Participating students will spend the weekend in Charlotte doing various service projects in the inner-city Charlotte area. The group will stay at Christ the King Center, an Episcopal church near a Habitat for Humanity project. Students will have the option of staying one night or two. Projects for the weekend include working at the Salvation Army, the Uptown Day Shelter, Habitat for Humanity, Metrolina Food Bank, Seigle Avenue Church, and others. Members of the Chapel Committee are organizing the weekend plans. Anyone interested in participating should contact Secretary Christine D. Davidson.

Cock wins Kappa Sig scholarship

The Endowment Fund of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity has awarded the Ashton Brothers Scholarship to senior religion major John P. Cock. He is currently the Honor Council Chairman and is involved with various campus activities.

Media board to pick editors of student publications

Candidates will have to have one year’s experience on staffs to be considered

By TRIPP HELMS

The Media Board, composed of representatives of the administration, faculty, and the student body, decided in a meeting last week to choose the heads of all student-sponsored media organizations. For the last few years, the editors of The Davidsonian, The Wildcat Handbook, and Quips and Cranks have been chosen by the student body in an SGA-sponsored election. The members of the Media Board, given authority to oversee all student-run media organizations on campus by the College’s constitution, felt that a different selection process would alleviate “several problems and questions” about the election process, says Director of College Relations and committee member Jerry Stockdale.

One of these problems, says Stockdale, is the recruitment of candidates for the editors of Quips and Cranks and the Wildcat Handbook. The current editors for both were appointed because no one signed up to run for the position. Junior Media Board member Tim Sparks was pleased with the change “because it gives people with a greater sense of what’s going on with publications a say in how they are going to be run.” He feels this will alleviate the possibility of an editor being elected solely on the basis of popularity, even if the candidate has no previous experience or qualifications. The board also decided not to consider any candidates who do not have at least one year of experience on the publication they want to head.

The power to choose editors, along with the power to remove them from office, is listed in the Davidson College Constitution as part of the media board’s responsibility. According to Stockdale, the board delegated this responsibility to the SGA a few years ago.

NO CREDIT CHECK. Buy any Jewelry, Clothing, Sporting Goods, Electronics, & MORE! Installment payments available. Apply for a scholarship that includes a $100 tax-free per academic year.

-FORMERLY THE PIZZA CONNECTION-
ONLY OUR NAME HAS CHANGED!
FREE DELIVERY!
892-9046

PARTY SPECIAL
25% OFF ANY THREE (3) OR MORE PIZZA ORDER
FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS ONLY!

TWO FOR ONE SPECIAL
TWO (2) 12" CHEESE PIZZAS... ONLY $9.00 + TAX
($1.25 EA. ADDITIONAL TOPPING)
ONE (1) 12" PIZZA WITH TWO TOPPINGS AND 2 16 OZ. DRINKS... ONLY $8.25 + TAXalso decided to assign an advisor chosen from the faculty or staff to each student media organization. This advisor would help "train editors in leadership and management techniques," says Stockdale. Each media organization will decide what it wants in an advisor and nominate some possible candidates, according to Stockdale. The board will then choose the advisor. "The administration has a long-standing record of a hands-off policy with student publications," says Stockdale. "This is just a way of lending a helping hand."

By MARGARET CARROLL

Last Thursday, the Davidson ROTC Scabbard and Blade honor/service society held its bi-annual blood drive. Junior Cackie Walters was appointed to be in charge of the drive and said that she was "pleased with the turnout." The Greater Carolinas American Red Cross Blood Services came to Davidson to aid with the drive. Almost all of the ROTC cadets participated in the blood drive, either working with registration or blood bags, or helping in the donation room. EMTs from the Davidson Emergency Rescue Service helped by measuring blood pressure. Usually, there is a big rush at around 1:30, said Walters, but this time the crowd was fairly consistent throughout the day. A total of 149 pints of blood were donated, although other people tried to give and were unable due to sickness, medication, or low iron levels. Walters hopes these people will try again in April at the next blood drive.

Sophomore Jenny McDonald remarked that giving blood is necessary when one considers the fact that something could happen to a family member or close friend, and one should "hope that someone cared enough to give blood for them." McDonald encouraged those who are afraid to give to "try it." Another sophomore, John Nix, waxed eloquent about the blood drive’s refreshments he received after donating his blood. Sophomore Rob Lim donated blood early Thursday morning. Lim’s blood, type B+, was sent directly to Duke for a two-month-old baby who was in need of surgery and who had to have type B+ blood. Lim said, "It really made me feel good to know that I was actually doing something to help someone else. It made me want to donate another pint immediately."

Although she was pleased with 149 donations, Walters feels that the number is low considering the number of healthy students at Davidson. For some reason, many people do not give. They do not realize the importance of giving blood, she said. "One pint can save a life."

---

Start making credit purchases IMMEDIATELY! We will send you a Members Credit Card at once with a catalog. Take 12 months. Your personal credit card is valuable for check cashing, etc. A-1 reference will be on file to help you obtain other credit cards. Send in your $5 catalog deposit now (refundable with your first order). 100% Satisfaction Guaranteed.

---

INSTANT CREDIT! Ask about the program. Jobs in Australia. Immediate openings for men and women. $11,000 to $60,000. Construction, Manufacturing, Secretarial, Nurses, Engineering, Sales. Hundreds of jobs listed. CALL NOW! 206-736-7000. HOURS: 4:30-10:00 EVERYDAY.