Friday, September 30, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
David Host, Opinions Editor
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Cristin Williams, Section Production Editors

Apathy

Journalism is nothing without its sense of tradition, and for decades one of the most traditional editorial topics for student publications has been student apathy. One look at the virtually empty editorial pages this week renewed enthusiasm around The Davidsonian offices for this venerable issue.

The “Commentaries” section is the only section that we can’t write without outside help, and is headed up by the only editor I can’t scream at when he comes in empty-handed every week. Why is this? It’s not like there have been no issues to stir the individual consciousnesses of Davidson students this fall. Many of you have no permanent place to live. Issues such as divestment and athletics are just as potent as they were in the spring. There is a tight Presidential race on this year. And faculty! Where are your voices? There is a proposal for a Faculty Tenure Committee coming up at the next faculty meeting, which could have an impact on future tenure decisions. Assistant professor salaries are still low. These are not insignificant. There’s nothing zippering your mouths, either! A liberal arts education should not predispose one toward keeping one’s pen in the drawer. Write in! Libel someone and start a good dialogue!

Since witty little ads encouraging submissions don’t seem to work, there will be assignments this week. All those with names between Edwin Davis Flynn and Holly Fox need to turn a submission in before Tuesday. Please don’t tell me this is really necessary!

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian; Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first-class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Since it would be rather rude and egotistical to reply directly to Mr. Jones’ letter (right) in the editorial (above), we've decided to place our statement here. Here goes:

First of all, six pages of copy on twelve pages of newspaper is not bad at all. Check The Washington Post, for example. Next: How does the power of journalism prove inadequate, much less sorely inadequate? Next: The Georgia State Signal, which I’m not familiar with, does have the benefit of drawing staff from the second-largest university in Georgia. Next: Hunter S. Thompson is now a burned-out hulk of a writer driveling for some San Francisco travel magazine, the last I heard. I'd rather not have any like him around here, thanks. Next: Spelling errors! Surpresses? Suppresses! Garrish? Garish! Qulify? Qualify! Chanel? Channel! Essex? ESSX! Next: Technitone? Come, now, Mr. Jones.

In the first ten lines of a letter, we are full of verve and spirit. Of course, a newspaper in a school this size always needs more staff. I might even have asked you to join us, had your letter not so vividly displayed your lack of basic English skills and ability to reason accurately, both somewhat important in this business. You are not God’s gift to this newspaper. Please write again. This has been fun.

--The Editor.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll (movin’ on up!)
News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Margaret Carroll, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany “Mantrap” Deptuch, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.
Sports Staff: John Burs, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard.Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson. AY _ Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen. Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J. W. Mullis. Circulation Staff: B. H. Steen. Applause, please. Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.

Letters

Where is the news?

Dear Editors:

After browsing through (I must say browsing through because there is very little to read) the latest, September 15, issue of The Davidsonian, I am reminded of the movie adaptation of Ray Bradbury’s Fahrenheit 451. In Fahrenheit 451, Bradbury envisions a futuristic society which suppresses the written word, a culture void of literature, chained to the television. In fact, in Bradbury’s “modern” world firemen confiscate books and burn them; somewhere along the way, the idea that firemen put out fires was lost. In the movie, the hero, Montag (played by Oskar Werner), refuses to submit and eventually “becomes a book” (read the story or rent the movie). However, before Montag becomes a book, his only “reading” materials are garish picture books, montages in overbearing color which mimic the sacred television; the desire to read something, anything, forces Montag to study the color books.

If future trends continue, The Davidsonian will become a Montagian picture book, an exercise in sensory gratification. The September 15 Davidsonian has 4 comic strips, 24 photos, and 13 advertisements. Of the 13 ads, five combine to take up three half-page sections or 1 1/2 full pages. In fact, page 3 has four ads and, if you count the headline, five lines of original copy. In three ads, The Davidsonian toots its own horn, calling for student submissions and, can you beat this, more ads!

Photographs/graphics are an important part of any good paper. Do not misunderstand me, I am not advocating the elimination of comics or photographs from The Davidsonian, but using a 1/3 page photo on page 1 minus an article is certainly amiss. In short, there is too much grey space and not enough copy on a 12-page layout. Well, enough critical droning. The big question simply is: Where are the articles? Counting “News Shorts,” a rehash of national and international news, and considering “The official guide to Davidson’s new faculty” as one article, last week’s Davidsonian has 12 articles. Amid all of the fluff, the power of solid, cutting-edge, college journalism proves sorely inadequate.

I say solid, cutting-edge, college journalism because we as a campus are capable. If we are what we say we are (and tell all of our peers during summer vacation), a strong, open-minded, liberal arts college composed of bright, talented men and women from diverse backgrounds, then why is the motivational level of our newspaper so low? It can’t be?! It can, because we as students have allowed it. In our confusing, transition-to-adulthood world of immediate physical satisfaction, we have created mediocrity in our chief sounding board, The Davidsonian. It is time for the trend to end. College years are formative years, a time to challenge your values and perceptions, a time to reconstruct your worldview. The students of Davidson should channel this energy to The Davidsonian and create something equally as good as even the Georgia State Signal.

Let’s get out there and pound the pavement, question some values, and raise some eyebrows. Let’s have news coverage on Davidson’s views on the upcoming presidential election, Essex service, vandalism on campus, the “Dean’s Outbasket,” security (somebody find out why these guys spend so much time at Bacon/Ham-n-eggs), the excellent job of this year’s Union staff, the latest publications of professors, the international student’s conceptions of America, etc. There must be a junior Hunter S. Thompson cruising the halls of Belk, Richardson, Cannon, Watts, Little, or Duke. The Davidsonian must reflect the student body. If we are as wonderful as we are led to believe, we should lose the technicolor for the sake of technitone.

Richard C. Jones

Also, the persons identified on page 10 last week (lower right) as the organizers of the International Festival are not Dr. Perry, Dr. Gluck, and Ms. J. LeVanay but are in fact Ismat Husein, Ruth Pittard, and John Hutchinson, all in disguise.