= Davidson baseball falls to Citadel, Wildcats have dim hope of making conference playoffs

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR., and HAP BRYANT

Last weekend, the Davidson baseball team finished a tough series with the Citadel, who took two of three games from
the Wildcats. Davidson, then 21-17, won the first game of Saturday’s doubleheader in the bottom of the seventh inning on
Peter Hughes’ single that scored Dan Cotton from third base. The Citadel’s catcher dropped the throw home, allowing the Wildcats
to escape with a win, 6-5. Brad Wanzenberg got the victory, raising his record to 2-2.

In the second game, the Citadel went up 2-1 early on an RBI single and a home run by Buddy
Ward. Davidson answered in the fourth inning as Peter Hughes got his 18th RBI of the season with a single
up the middle to score Chris Stuart from second base. The score remained 2-2 until the sixth, when the Citadel
picked up another run. Davidson’s sixth inning rally began when Rob Zimmerman was hit by a pitch. Then, both Hughes
and Mikio Aoki walked, loading the bases. But Steve Livesey hit into a double play, in which Aoki was supposedly
tagged out by the second baseman and Livesey thrown out at first. The score remained 3-2 through the seventh, and
the doubleheader was split.

The Wildcats tried to relieve their frustration Sunday afternoon but the Bulldogs ambushed them again, scoring in the top of
the ninth inning to win a 12-11 slugfest.

On Friday, the Wildcats traveled to Greenville, S.C., to face the cellar-dwelling Furman Paladins. Needing a sweep of the three-game
series to stay alive for the conference tournament, Davidson delivered a late-inning rally in the first game and a fine
pitching performance in the second to win both games. The teams were tied after seven innings in the first game
of the Friday doubleheader, 5-5. Davidson got home runs early from Hughes and Brian Kelly to stay within striking distance.
In the first extra inning (the eighth), the Wildcats loaded the bases for Aoki, who homered. The Cats went on
to win 10-5. Wanzenberg, now 3-2 with 10 saves, got the win.

In the second game, sophomore ace Greg Wilcox turned in a gem, hurling a 5-hit shutout. The victory was Wilcox’s
ninth, and it tied him with Steve Condon in the Davidson record books for most wins in a season. The
‘Cats won the game 6-0. As of Saturday, they are 23-17 overall and 7-7 in the conference with four games
remaining. The ‘Cats still entertain an outside chance of making the playoffs, but they must win Saturday at Furman and
take two of three from the league-leading Catamounts of Western Carolina next weekend.

NOTES: Sunday’s game with the Citadel was the final home game of the season. Nineteen of Davidson’s 21 wins have
been at home. Current top hitters include Chris Swart (.418), Roy Vilardi (.379), Ralph Isernia (.352), and Peter Hughes (.340).
Vilardi leads the team in homers with 10, followed by Mikio Aoki (8), Rob Zimmerman (6), and Ralph Isernia (6).
Brad Wanzenberg posts a 2.76 ERA, tops on the squad, followed by Greg Wilcox at 3.46.

Around the Horn

IMAC softball provides springtime outlet for has-beens

By HAP BRYANT

Although the ball is bigger and the play is slower, the IMAC version of the national pastime offers everyone who
loves freshly-cut grass and sunny days the chance to relive those glory years when the balls were whizzing and the
bats were clanking. Despite the limited schedule of games this year, another result of that monstrous landfill called the new
sports facility, participants in IMAC softball have revived the sport played by millions across America.

Some of the differences between softball and baseball are subtle, some obvious. Among the obvious are the size of the
ball, the number of players, and the ramshackle backstops. The optimum number of players for a softball team is ten.
However, many less-dedicated teams find themselves playing with seven, eight, or nine players. Needless to say, it is hard to
cover the field properly with less than ten players. Good teams can make do with nine, but anything less does
not work too well.

Some of the subtle differences are the distance between the bases, the speed of the thrown ball, and lineup manipulations.
The bases are allegedly only 65 feet apart. This, coupled with the difficulty in throwing a softball, makes every ground
ball an adventure. The fielder cannot hold on to the ball and collect himself before he throws because the runner
can easily beat such a lackadaisical throw out. It is difficult to devise a strong lineup in softball, particularly on
teams with marginal hitters. First, everyone wants to be a star and bat in the first four spots of the
lineup.

Sports Shorts

By WHIT WILKS

* Men’s tennis beats William and Mary. On Saturday, the Cats squeaked by the Tribe 5-4 in a non-conference match
to run their record to 18-10. In singles action, Jim Thompson, Sebastian Koch, and Tim Hagood all earned victories. On
the doubles side of things, Koch teamed with Carlos Ortega to win at the number 1 position and Thompson and
John Griffith sealed the victory by winning a third set tiebreaker 7-4. Coach Jeff Frank called it a “good win”
for the team, which meets conference foes Furman and Appalachian State later this week.

* Golf Team looks strong at Winthrop Invitational. The Wildcats placed a strong4th in a 14-team field last weekend in
the thirty-six hole event. On the first day of competition, Scott Prince led the team with a 77, and on
day two, Gates Granger led with a 71. In a dual match against Winthrop Thursday, the Cats fell by three
strokes, as Granger again led the way with a 71. Craig Carlock and freshman Mike Maggart added an 84. The
team concludes its season today and tomorrow at the Southern Conference tournament in Charlotte.

Trivia: The answer to last week’s question is Jack Nicklaus. The Golden Bear has earned six of the coveted green
jackets. This week’s question: When was the last time the Atlanta Braves won the National League West?

However, it’s sometimes better to space out the hitters in the lineup, so threats will come up every inning. As
in baseball, there is no simple answer to this dilemma. All these factors play a part in the larger arena
that is IMAC softball. Some teams play for the fun of it; some play to win; some (e.g., Bray’s Team)
don’t show up at all. With the playoffs coming soon, the stronger teams are preparing themselves. The favorite has to
be Sasquatch and the Centennials, a powerhouse group of seniors and juniors. Captained by Ed Genovese, the Centennials are strongest
at the plate and in the outfield, where Jason Hillen and Ben McKay catch most of what is hit. Also
impressive has been shortstop Jeff Jacqmein, who is hitting close to 1.000. The Centennials have their weak spots, however, with
“Easy” Ed Genovese having limited range at either third or second, and catcher Otis Wightman providing little offensive help.

Last year’s finalists, Wally and the Juicemasters and the Damned Comanches from Hell, could give Sasquatch a run for his
money. Although the Juicemaster talent pool seems to be down from recent years, captain Matt Newsom should have his crew
ready for crunch time. Particularly strong for the Juicemasters are the outfield of Dean “The Dream” Keener and A.J. Morgan,
who cover considerable ground, and the shortstop Derek Rucker, who adds speed on the basepaths. Despite early-season jitters, the Comanches
seem to be coming around at the right time of the year. They lost two key players, center fielder Kenny
“Bang Bang” Bogert to the baseball team and shortstop Steve Bradley to graduation. Anthony McCarron has made the transition from
left field and has played admirably at short this season. McCarron has been dazzling at times in the field and
has wielded a solid bat. Newcomer Hap Bryant has steadied the defense of the outfield as well as contributing at
the plate. Also solid have been first baseman Tim Heinze, second-sacker John Reel, and outfielder Rich Busby. Although dissension has
been rife on the team for part of the season, the Comanches seem primed to repeat as champions. However, they
will have to deal not only with Sasquatch and Wally but with several other teams.

In particular, the Old Men seemed revived after an early exit from the playoffs last year. The Old Men have
a quality outfield with newcomer John Haskell, David Shi, and Stan Hynds. However, there is a defensive weakness at third,
where Ben Klein has suffered erratic play. SAE’s Masterbatters are a quality team that could vie for the crown. Shortstop
Mark Crowther and third baseman Steve Godwin hold down the left side of the infield, and the outfield is speedy.
KA’s Wally’s Masters looked good early but are fading in the waning days of the season. After a 12-9 loss
to the Comanches, the Masters need to regroup. Strong play has come from short fielder Kearns Davis and from left
fielder Rob Vest. However, one big liability for Wally’s Masters has been the error-prone play of Hugh Campbell at third,
who made no less than six errors against the Comanches. Also questionable is Ed Powell at first, whose mobility is
still a question mark.

Those are the teams to watch in the playoffs. There are others, like Gray House’s Coitus Ergo Sum, that could
make some noise. However, I look for the Comanches to get the monkey off their back and take the title
for a second straight year over Sasquatch and the Centennials. Whatever the outcome, the softball season has enlivened the IMAC
fields once again, and it remains an integral part of the rites of spring.

Women’s tennis team prepares for Southern Conference tournament
By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Davidson women’s tennis team went 2-1 in conference play April 9 and 10 at Chattanooga. The Lady Cats raised
their conference record to 4-2 after the weekend. The team downed both Western Carolina and Marshall 9-0. Laura Ross, Mary
Beth Ruth, Virginia Hall, Alice Stubbs, Jane Price, and Angela Rudert all won their singles matches. On the doubles side,
Price-Hall, Stubbs-Debby crushed their opponents. However, the next day the UT-C Lady Mocs defeated the injury-plagued Lady Cats, 9-0. DeCou
and Ruth-Rudert also lost.

The team’s number one player, Amy McNelis, is out for the season because of arthroscopic knee surgery, and number four
Marion Stone had tendinitis and could not play in the match. UTC took the first sets fairly easily, but the
Lady Cats came back in the second sets and almost forced some of the matches into third sets. Coach Caroline
Brown said, “We saw some things that we liked. We’ll get back to the drawing board, look at what we
need to do, open a new can of balls in two weeks, and see what happens.”

The team prepares for the Southern Conference tournament, April 21-23, at Asheville.
