8 Cheap Seat Comments

Spring has arrived: Batter up!
By KEN BOGERT

Okay, now that winter has gone and spring has finally arrived, I can stop complaining about all that silly fraternity
garbage and get down to what’s really important. It’s time to play ball—baseball—and it’s about time some reporter started covering
the action! That’s what the “Cheap Seat Comments” are all about. It’s about getting you, the fan, all those tidbits
of information that will help you to root (bet) wisely.

All the players have come back from the off-season. Some were training and getting in shape. Others were duck hunting
and drinking beer. Still others were writing autobiographies. A few even played baseball in the winter leagues. But it is
now time to come back and challenge each other for the pennant. And before the season starts, everyone has high
hopes (that’s the greatest thing about baseball). It is now my job to separate fact from fiction and tell you
which teams have a real chance, and which teams have no chance.

Today I will analyze the National League West. This Division proves difficult to pick since the two best teams are
somewhat evenly matched. But here it goes.

Without a doubt, the Atlanta Braves will be in the thick of it come September. The roster is packed with
superstars, regular household name types—Jeff Dedmon, Charlie Puleo, Dion James, Ed Olwine, Zane Smith, Bruce Benedict, etc. Of course, I
have neglected to mention the real stars that Atlanta does possess—Dale Murphy; uh, and did I mention Dale Murphy? Did
anyone say Dale Murphy? Seriously, no matter how you add it up, Braves fans, the Atlanta club is Dale Murphy
and then a bunch of other guys. Ken Griffey and Ozzie Virgil are old. Even Dale is getting up there
in age. If America’s team doesn’t do something they are going to find themselves unable to beat anyone. The pitching
stinks. The fielding stinks, despite the new combo up the middle of Andres Thomas and Damaso Garcia. Besides Murph, the
hitting stinks. Almost all of them are slow base-runners. Chuck Tanner is a nice guy for a manager, but when
is the last time he won, 1979? The one bright spot for the Braves is Gerald Perry, their hot-hitting first
baseman. But overall, this club is no better than they were last year. Last year they were bad.

The other clubs in the division are much better and do not deserve such harsh treatment, so I will look
at them with a little more respect, but the Braves don’t deserve any.

The Astros are convinced that their disappointing performance in ‘87 was a fluke, but I am convinced that it was
not. The Astros have had it. Their strong point in past years has come from their supreme pitching staff, but
it is an aging staff. Bob Knepper, Nolan Ryan, Mike Scott, and Dave Smith are not kids anymore, yet these
men will be the heart of the staff. Thirty-six-year-old Joaquin Andujar, the major addition to the staff in the off-season,
will not help much. At the bats, Houston is almost adequate, but not quite. Last year, they batted only .252
as a team (2nd to last in the NL). Glenn Davis, Kevin Bass, Billy Hatcher, and Billy Doran are all
good hitters, but they are vulnerable to prolonged slumps. In the past and this year too, the slump factor will
have adverse effects on the team, especially considering the lack of production out of the rest of the lineup. The
final analysis is that the Astros will lose a lot of 3 to 1 ball games. The pitching will be
okay, while the offense will sputter.

Kirk Gibson is a good player, but he is not going to save the Dodgers in ’88. The best the
Dodgers can hope for is fourth place, maybe third. Basically, they have the same problems that have been plaguing the
Astros, good pitching but no hitting. They were the worst hitting club in the NL last year. The batting order
improves significantly with Kirk Gibson. Opposing teams will give Pedro Guerrero and Mike Marshall better pitches to hit with Gibson
in the lineup. This may be enough to put LA over the Astros, but certainly not nearly enough to win
the pennant.Dodgers is their fans. In Los Angeles, they “watch” baseball, but they don’t “root.” They are not really avid
“fans,” but rather “spectators,” not really interested in who wins and who loses. It’s not “sport,” but only “entertainment.” It
creates a bad atmosphere for winning. Even with a good atmosphere, the Dodgers would still have trouble winning. The surprise
waiting to happen in the NL West is the San Diego Padres. This may not be the year they put
it together, but a lot of baseball people will be shocked by these young, farm-bred, gutsy players. Last year, the
Padres started by losing 42 of their first 54 games—the 1962 Mets were practically that bad. After that, however, they
played almost .500 ball. The core of the team is a bunch of hard-nosed players: Tony Gwynn, Benito Santiago, John
Kruk, as well as pitchers Eric Show and Andy Hawkins. They are managed by a hard-nosed guy too, Larry Bowa.
Remember that last year was only Bowa’s first year of managing in the majors. By the second half of the
season, he had the team playing well. In a year or two, they will have a legitimate shot at the
NL West title.

The Reds and Giants are the teams to beat in the National League West, but I like the Giants and
I will tell you why. The Reds are a bunch of “ifs.” If Tom Browning can rebound and pitch like
he did in 1985, and if Jose Rijo and Danny Jackson can ever realize their alleged potential, and if Barry
Larkin, Nick Esasky, and Eric Davis can play as well as they played last year, and if someone can fill
Dave Parker’s shoes as an RBI man, Cincinnati will be tough. The Reds have a few proven players, but the
majority of the roster is composed of youngsters. This is the year they prove themselves future stars, or it will
be the year they prove themselves to be flashes in the pan. Look for them to crumble under Cincinnati’s demanding
fans and the press.

But the Giants are a good club—the most legitimate contender in the NL West. This is a club where Mike
Aldrete, a line drive hitter who hit .325 last season, could not find a way into the starting line-up despite
a sizzling bat. Why not? Because the rest of the club is solid and they play well together; they all
know their roles too. Candy Maldonado, Jeff Leonard, Kevin Mitchell, and Will Clark will power the Giants to victory. Dave
Dravecky, Mike Krukow, Rick Reuschel, and Atlee Hammaker are not great, but manager Roger Craig taught them the split-fingered fastball
and turned them all into consistent pitchers. Scott Garrelts was the surprise last year by becoming the main closer for
San Fran. They could use more bullpen help. Players like Robby Thompson, Jose Uribe, and Chris Speier will push their
teammates to scrap for everything they can get and the aggressive coaching style of Roger Craig will fit their personalities
perfectly. Moreover, playoff experience has taught the Giants a lot—they want to win the NL Championship this year, not just
get to the Championship Series. With a good mix of young players and veterans, unlike Cincinnati, the Giants are the
best club in the NL West. They are going to dominate just as the Mets did in the 1986 campaign.

There you have it. The perfect picks: 1) Giants, 2) Reds, 3) Padres, 4) Astros, 5) Dodgers, 6) Braves. Perhaps
the Astros could finish ahead of the Padres. Sorry Braves fans, but it should not be news to you that
they are terrible. It’s about time the winter ended and spring began. And it’s about time baseball started. And remember
all you football fans that there are at least a hundred reasons why baseball is better, one of them being
that the ball is round. Next week I’ll look at the AL West, the worst division in baseball.

satisfaction (sat’ is: fac’tion): contentment, a source of enjoyment.
teach (téch) vb: to instruct by precept, example, or experience.

...they do go together. Education. Teaching is a career that gives lifetime satisfaction. Teaching in a private independent school provides
you with flexible curricula, small classes, motivated students, and a supportive community. Over 750 independent schools, non-profit and non-discriminatory, are
looking for people with a firm grounding in the traditional academic subjects taught in elementary and high school. Critical needs
exist in math, science, Spanish, French, and elementary. Certification is not required. IES counsels and refers beginning and experienced teachers
to independent schools nationwide. We charge no fees to the applicant. For an application call or write:

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
20 Nassau Street
Princeton, NJ 08542
1-800-257-5102 or (609) 921-6195

Independent Educational Services is a non-profit corporation directed by member schools.

Information Session: March 16, 1988, 7:00 pm
Morrison Room in the College Union
