6

Craig: making service a full-time job
By SHARON-LEE SCHWARTZ

After graduating from Davidson, what does a student have to come back to? Caroline Craig ’88 feels that it is the community. For those who have not heard, Craig is the new Service Coordinator and her answer summarizes her feeling toward service. Accordingly, service is one way to become part of the community.

The Service Coordinator’s position has evolved over a period of years because service has always been important at Davidson, but it has never been organized. One of the main functions of the new office is to serve as a sort of “clearing house” between the faculty and students. This way, student interests can be matched with community needs. Another function is to expose as many students as possible to service. Finally, this person should help interested students find the right project in the community or anywhere in the world, during the school year or over the summer.

Fine, but who is Caroline Craig? She graduated from Davidson last spring with a degree in history, so she is not new to the school. While an undergraduate, she was involved in service in order to learn about the community and to help others. She was able to see a different reality than the idyllic one that we experience at Davidson. It also gave her a chance to put to use some of the knowledge she gained in classes such as sociology and psychology. More concretely, Caroline was active in the Y-Student Service Core and participated in an “Adopt-a-Grandparent” program through the YSSC. On her own, she tutored, worked with a children’s choir, and upon hearing about an elderly woman who could not get to the grocery store, she took her herself.

Presently, Caroline is very busy. According to her, “it takes an incredible amount of time and energy to find out what needs to be done.” Well, not only is she finding out what needs to be done, she is also organizing two projects, Habitat for Humanity, and a recycling project. She also hopes to start a journal of students’ past experiences with service to be used as a guide for students who are interested in helping.

She would appreciate it if students who have participated in service projects would fill out a card in her office (in the Student Union, across the hall from the bookstore). The recycling project is due to start in October with Richardson dorm as the pilot dorm. We will be recycling glass, metal, and possibly paper. Caroline feels that this is an important project because our landfills are nearly full, and we need to find alternatives. Lots of volunteers are needed to collect and sort the trash; if the program is successful, these may eventually become paid positions.

The second project, Habitat for Humanity, has excited much student interest. This fall, the college is working on two out of the eleven houses proposed for the Davidson area. Habitat for Humanity is a novel program in that the families help build their own home and they also pay for them with the aid of no-interest, government loans. Many students and student organizations are already involved in this project, but those that want to add their help should contact Ms. Tindal Davis.

Another suggestion that Caroline made was that interested stu-

Guns N’ Roses: Rock on!
By TIM JACKS

“Warning: Some language on this album may be considered offensive.” That’s the label on the cellophane that contains some pure, unadulterated rock. Guns N’ Roses is the name of this five-man band from L.A. And Appetite for Destruction is the name of their album that’s climbed to #4 this week. Their single “Sweet Child O’ Mine” is a big hit on radio and on MTV. But what about the rest of their album? This is the question that prompted me to buy it and review it this week (also to peruse the opposite end of the spectrum from Tracy Chapman).

Wow! Put on side one and crank it up! “Welcome to the Jungle” is my favorite tune. When your lead guitarist is named “Slash” you know he’s got to be good. He is. The rhythm guitar lays down a riff that’ll smoke your system. Lead singer Axl Rose uses the old Roger Daltrey stuttering technique only twice as fast, raising the jam to the 10th power. The drum break is awesome. Drummer Steve Adler says in Circus magazine that he started playing drums when he was 10: “I couldn’t play the guitar, I couldn’t sing, but I could bust Tupperware.”

“It’s So Easy” (which was not written by Guns N’ Roses) sucks. And I hate the reason but it must be admitted. Rock music discriminates against baritone voices. In order to sound like rock, the vocals must be in the high range, except for rare groups like R.E.M. or INXS. The vocals on “It’s So Easy” and “Mr. Brownstone” are too low. Probably their rhythm guitarist didn’t want Axl to do every song. Well, he should’ve. Both these songs wouldprobably sound a lot better if Axl had kicked ‘em an octave or two up. “It’s So Easy” is also one of the reasons the album got labelled as it has a preponderance to use the “F” word.

“Nightrain” and “Out Ta Get Me” were fairly disappointing in that they sounded like Loverboy on uppers. They’re run-of-the-mill rock tunes. A glimmer of hope breaks through with “Paradise City” on the end of side one. It starts off as something new and interesting, a chance to prove their diversity... but they blew it. After a great intro with non-distorted guitar and good vocals and their only synthesizer bit, they revert back to their normal sound. They end it well though, when the drums switch to cut-time and Slash shows off his guitar speed by keeping up with the doubled drums.

“My Michelle” is a good song with a rather shocking picture of heroin users. The song does a good job of revealing the damaging aspects of drugs. Even though Axl is a screamer, he articulates the lyrics well so that the words are not lost as in most metal or hard-rock bands.

“Think About You” and “You're Crazy” are true anthems to head-banging. The fast pace sweeps you off your feet and the speed is intoxicating. This is not metal without direction but very controlled talent and skill. Save ‘em for a party!

“Sweet Child O’ Mine” is the song that everyone’s heard on the radio and frankly I tend to look down on songs that are overplayed. However, the radio usually plays the shorter version. The longer album version is better. You miss one of Slash’s greatest solos on the airwaves. Their lead guitarist’s second solo in the song impressed me with his ability to create a unique, sinking effect. The notes always bend down when you expect them to bend up. It drops and drops until it starts building again into a furious crescendo. Then he punches the distortion and lets go. It’s wild!

The distorted phlanger on “Anything Goes” gives this song a slightly different sound. But not much. And if you don’t know what a phlanger is, just listen to the song and you’ll know what I mean. (Actually, I do consider it possible that Slash is not using a phlanger, but a voice-box, which Bon Jovi made popular.)

“Rocket Queen” is divided into two parts. The first half, Axl uses a phase-shifter to affect the sound of his voice, but in doing so the listener loses a lot of the words. However, the odd vocals draw attention to the funky rhythm guitar that really makes you want to shake your butt. Then it switches dramatically. The rhythm is still syncopated but is more straightforward and quiets down while Axl’s amazing vocals take over.

If you don’t like hard rock and would rather listen to James Taylor, don’t buy this album. On the other hand, if you do like to take a walk on the wild side every now and then, this album is for you. Rock on!

Editor’s Note: Despite his best efforts to be on the cutting edge of rock, Mr. Jacks did in fact purchase his copy of this album at Cornwell.

---

A WOMAN, from page 5

Before Charles’s sexual encounter with Sarah would have built sexual and mental tension in the viewer, but in this movie, it is dull and uninteresting. The giant leaps in time are also confusing. What has happened during the three-year break in the movie, and why does it start up after this time? These are some of the many questions never answered in the movie, and they produce obvious gaps in the flow of the film.

The cinematography is beautiful, however. The French Lieutenant’s Woman is visually pleasing, with rich tones and unusual camera angles to catch the sun just right. The beauty only underscores the amorphous nature of the movie, and the viewer is left empty. I was disappointed in the movie, yet not surprised. Most any movie starring Meryl Streep can be classified in the same way as The French Lieutenant's Woman, having a lot of problems and little actual drama. This film contains little of merit to provoke an entertaining film.