Monday, November 7, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson:

By BETH DRUMMOND and CAROL GATEWOOD

SOUTH AFRICA

Last Thursday, South Africa held its first same-day multiracial elections for segregated municipal councils. President P.W. Botha’s National Party faced fierce competition from the extreme right Conservative Party which entered local elections for the first time since its formation 8 years ago.

Campaigning for stricter enforcement of apartheid laws, the Conservatives carried most rural northern towns and blue-collar urban areas to win at least 67 municipalities compared to 30 for the Nationalists. Botha’s Nationalists did triumph in several major battlegrounds including Pretoria, the administrative capital, and Johannesburg, the country’s largest city.

Of South Africa’s 26 million blacks, only 1.5 million are eligible to vote in any election. Anti-apartheid activists in major black townships urged a boycott of the municipal elections; voter turnout among the black population was estimated to be below 10 percent.

MOSCOW

Following recent meetings with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl announced a historic agreement with the Soviet Union for the release of all people regarded in the West as political prisoners by the end of the year.

Although Kohl would not say whether the promise came from Gorbachev himself, such a move nonetheless represents a dramatic break by the Soviet Union with past Kremlin human rights practices. Estimates from various agencies abroad estimate that between 150 to 500 Western political prisoners will be liberated through this agreement.

Kohl’s announcement was welcomed by Soviet human rights activist Andrei Sakharov, the Reagan administration, and Amnesty International.

CANADA

Polls published Saturday reveal that Canadian President Mulroney’s Progressive Conservative party is losing support in the current national election campaign. Mulroney called for elections in an effort to push through the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement through Parliament before opposition parties jeopardized its approval.

The Liberal Party, which strongly opposes the agreement, is now tied with the ruling party. Elections will be held November 21.

ISRAEL

Israeli Parliamentary elections further intensified after a terrorist attack against a civilian bus in the occupied West Bank left 1 Jewish woman and her 4 children dead. As voters went to the polls Tuesday, analysts speculated that this grim event would aid Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and the conservative Likud bloc, who support harsher army measures against Arab uprisings.

Others hope the attack will encourage support for Shimon Peres and the Labor Party who favor negotiations with the Arabs. It is anticipated that the election will be very close and will result in the formation of another coalition government. Israeli soldiers prevented Arab residents from leaving either the West Bank or the Gaza Strip in an effort to prevent further violence during elections.

POLAND

The Polish Government yesterday announced plans to close Gdansk’s state-owned Lenin shipyard, the birthplace of the country’s outlawed Solidarity union. This move is the first major political action by Prime Minister Rakowski who was recently installed amidst governmental failure to resolve Poland’s economic ills.

Rakowski’s actions were not unexpected as he is a staunch foe of the trade union. Solidarity leader Lech Walesa condemned the Government’s decision but did not announce plans for protests or strikes.

GENEVA

U.N. mediated peace talks resumed between Iraq and Iran to resolve the longstanding Persian Gulf dispute. A truce between the two countries took effect August 20, but ground to a halt after disagreement over the Shatt al-Arab waterway along the two nations’ common southern frontier.

NORMAN CROSSING SHOPPING CENTER
I-77 & HWY 73, EXIT 28
LAKE NORMAN/CORNELIUS
892-9873

LUNCH SERVED MONDAY-FRIDAY, 11 am-2 pm

Parents flocked to Davidson Oct. 29-31 to visit their sons and daughters, to see Fall Convocation, and to eat lunch at the Parents’ Picnic.

* Photo by Bill Hartman *