The Bodhi Desk

There I was,
Sitting in a tree
that was my desk,
contemplating Buddha
in a pile of shit.

I saw myself
a fly, a thousand lenses,
seeing nothing,
buzzing on in search
of Buddha, truth,
and shit.

From stagnant, stinking stupor,
wake to
smell the beauty,
laugh at Buddha
and his bones,
a pile of dust.
Beautiful.

-Linda Tatsapaugh ‘88

The Denial

The knobby contorted grasping claw
Reaches out from beneath the thick dense mass
Of a formidable vast oceanic realm.

With the turbid, oozing, rich liquid streaming down
The monstrous, bulging arm of its controller,
The beast strives to grasp the areas beyond its reach.

Nothing to grip, nothing to sustain, nothing, nothing,
The creeping salty concoction swarms up the
Limb's fleshy length, vessels bulging and screaming;
And the disturbed network of waves folds back in place,
Allowing the gates below to open, their hinges moaning,
Their rocky monuments vibrating in disturbance,
Their stronghold awaiting the last of the hurled ones.

The Age of the Twelve await as the mawing womb
Engulfs the pitiful beast into its black and jagged portal.

The entrance shuts tight, and the brows of the Great One raise
In affirmation and delight, shaking existence.
He whirls his grayish head, gripping the annihilating javelin with authority,
And looks down upon the world in silence.

-David Robinette ‘88

The Davidsonian
Friday, April 22, 1988

Hoper’s Dream

Rubbing a haggard stubbled worried chin
With eyes that stare a thousand miles away
Stroke a barely controlled hand through greasy hair
And pray that far away in the light there is a coming dawn
A time where being is not as hard as this retreating
To follow no piper that the light has sent
And become my own light if need be

But who can hope to be one’s own ruler
Leading oneself inner darkness is lonely
To plan a perfect shape to thing in imperfection
And hope the constructs of self can stand with no support
A spark of light in abyss where all is still dark
To see only emptiness though they are there
And look outward at all the staring faces

So occasionally reach out for a hand
Warmth in humanity that fades back to air
Forgetting that the hand is even still in the grasp
And flow back into the selfness of things as time creeps by
To remember a face, a smile, a caring in the eyes
Fear idle moments when the darkness catches up
And thoughts and dreams become the days

Slowly in days of dreams light returns
So who can say when was yesterday or today
To which of the thoughts will the realization come
And dreams and days will be one to let thoughts forever fade
Or will the thoughts have the victory and say all
To make a hoper’s dream pass and make him stone
And look to not find them in the darkness

Back to rub the chin that this is a dream
Warmth in pictures and a room full of memories
Saying to people things in even tones to let them pass
And without a betrayal of voice live in someone else’s reality
To pass unnoticed that truth and light will not spill
Or have another light fall on me so it will fade
And leave mine in painful brightness

-C.D.

Correction: Last week’s Inside Art omitted two names. The author of the poem beginning “In one fleeting moment...” is Brian
P. Healey '91, and “Life Explained For My Mother” is by Glenn Caldera ‘91. We regret the errors.
