Monday, August 29, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

FIRST CHARTER NATIONAL BANK
Locations in Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville.

The Big Event
By MARGARET CARROLL

On Saturday, September 3, the SGA, the Union, and Patterson Court will host a campus-wide band party on the football
field at 6:30. The event is designed to serve as a way of unifying freshmen, upperclassmen, and professors and their
families in one activity.

SGA president Harrison Murray explained that the idea of a campus-wide event began as a means to cooperate with administration
suggestions of having a “dry rush,” which was one of the major campaign issues last year. The SGA planned to
have several events to which the freshmen would be invited during the time that they are not allowed on the
court.

Wanting to include the Union in the planning process, the SGA appealed to the Union for organizational resources. Then the
SGA and the Union asked Patterson Court Council for their support. The PCC, according to PCC president Eileen Keeley, felt
that one “big” event would be better than several events because it would generate more enthusiasm and it would be
a “bigger deal.”

New! Davidson Location 892-4644

Welcome Back to Davidson!
Serving Davidson and Davidson College Students since 1965, offering:
- Gifts
- Greeting Cards
- Free Gift Wrapping
- Decor Items for your room
- Stationery
- Party goods
- Books

Drawing for a giant plush Opus as Joe Cool! It's already underway, so register each time you visit The Village
Store....The drawing is September 30.

Best Wishes in the 1988-89 School Year!
The Village Store
Main St. Davidson, N.C.

The Bar
127 Depot Street

THE NEW YORK TIMES is available

Peregrine Fine Foods and Spirits

SGA, Union, and Patterson Court work together for campus-wide party

Because the SGA, the Union, and PCC are working together to sponsor the event, Murray sees it as not only
a positive contribution to the freshmen but as a good way for three major campus organizations to cooperate and grow
closer as a result.

All of the Patterson Court houses, as well as the Union, are contributing their money and support to the project.

Both Murray and Union Social Vice President Frank Whitaker feel that the party will give the freshmen a chance to
meet upperclassmen Patterson Court members and Independents in a much more casual atmosphere so that when they are allowed on
the Court the freshmen will already have friendships established.

One of the major goals of the party is “to put alcohol in the background, demonstrating its use responsibly,” Murray
says. He hopes that the event will become a tradition at Davidson as a means of unifying the entire campus.

BOOKS FOR ALL!
126 South Main Street
892-6841
Mon-Sat 9:30-5:30, Sun 12-2

SUNDAY through FRIDAY
Join the Lunch Bunch!
Cheeseburger Baskets
$.50 Mugs

Watch for The Monthly Calendar of Events!

Mondays
Monday Night Sports
$.50 Ice Cold Mugs
$.75 Pizza by the Slice
I.D. Required

Wednesdays
Ladies’ Night
Seagram’s Wine Coolers 1/2 price
I.D. Required

Thursdays
Senior Night
Featuring: $2.75 Pitchers
Music by the Grateful Dead
I.D. Required
