Friday, April 22, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Union may move to Johnston Gym after complex completion
New services may include cinema, auditorium.
By LISA LENARD

Moving the College Union to Johnston Gym following the completion of the Baker Complex is a “very real possibility,” according to Union director William Brown. Presently, an ad hoc committee made up of six faculty and staff members and two student representatives from each class is exploring the feasibility of such a move. The committee is functioning on the assumption that the move will take place, according to Brown. Four sub-committees are focusing upon the particular issues of office space, performance space, public space, and services to be available in the new union. A report will be submitted to President Kuykendall in the near future.

Brown described the gym as the most likely option for moving the union. However, no final decision has been made and Kuykendall was not available for comment. The Union was initially built to serve as a library in 1975. It was felt that the most important aspect of an active Union is its location on campus. At the time during which the Union was planned, it was also to contain a post office which would make it a highly trafficked area. Dissatisfaction on the part of townspeople kept the post office on Main Street and the Union on the perimeter of the campus.

According to the Union’s founder, its original role was to provide a “family room” for the college, in which informal contact between members of the “college family” could take place. While the additions of the 900 Room in 1984 and the grocery store in 1988 have added some attraction to the Union, it is the general feeling that the Union, because of its present facilities, is unable to adequately fulfill its potential. The Union is too small, too far from the center of campus, and lacks the ambience and environment to encourage student/faculty interactions, handicap access, and a welcome area for visitors, according to Ronald N. Loomis, College Union/Campus Activities Planning Consultant. Loomis conducted a preliminary evaluation of the Union in November 1986.

Johnson Gym would be a good location, through which people would “naturally traverse” because of its proximity to the library, Chambers, Patterson Court, Baker Sports Complex, and the dorms, according to Harrison Murray, a junior on the committee and president of the Student Government Association. In the case that the Union would be moved, it is speculated that the present Union building will be used for administrative offices or classrooms. More likely though, it will be used for computer services or by the music department.

A student survey regarding a new Union and its facilities revealed a desire for a “wide range of perspectives and ideas,” says Murray. The committee is using these suggestions, those of Loomis, and ideas its members collected on their visits to other college Unions. The goal of the committee, according to Murray, is to provide the college with an atmosphere which would “draw students and faculty together in a natural situation.”

The committee is presently exploring the possible facilities which would be included in the new Union. Services being considered include a large information center, a deluxe game room, a ticket office, a student store, a lost and found center, a food service, a grocery store, a pub (like the 900 Room), and Xerox machines. Also included would be a change machine, a cinema, a formal auditorium, meeting/study rooms of assorted sizes, a darkroom, and a 24-hour area with study areas and purchase food.

The Board of Trustees will allot funds for the Union, assuming a move is approved, based on the recommendations of Dr. Kuykendall. At that time, the specific services will be prioritized. William Brown and other members of the college community have been “talking about moving (the Union) for about four or five years,” says Brown, and they will “just keep pushing” until it happens.

Davidson ROTC holds annual Red Cross blood drive
Donors screened for possible AIDS risks
By DAVID SCOTT

The ROTC sponsored an all-day Red Cross Blood Drive Monday, April 18. Only from 125 to 150 students and faculty donated blood. Preparations for giving blood this year involved a lengthy process which is part of a national health regulation and seeks to set standards whereby one must qualify as a donor. Each prospective donor completed an extensive health history, had his/her blood pressure checked, and was administered a blood test. Failure to meet the qualifications set by the Red Cross in any of these areas resulted in the disqualification of the donor. The actual extraction of blood took a few seconds. Refreshments were provided to offset nausea or dizziness.

Understandably, the most pressing concern on the minds of health workers and donors alike was the possibility of contracting AIDS during the donating process. According to the head Red Cross nurse, it was “impossible” to contract AIDS in the process of giving blood. The needles and bags which hold the blood are pre-Packaged and completely sterile. After one use, they are immediately discarded. On rare occasions, problems arise when donors have been infected by the AIDS virus. Since symptoms may lie dormant for up to five years after infection, one who is infected has no knowledge of the fact. The issue is complicated when standard detection tests are unable to reveal symptoms in the earliest stages. It is therefore imperative that potential donors are carefully screened in order to determine if they fall into one of the most likely “at-risk” groups. Such persons are deterred from donating blood. Those at risk are: 1) those homosexuals who have been active since 1977; 2) intravenous drug users; 3) AIDS victims and those who exhibit its symptoms; 4) hemophiliacs who have received a clotting factor concentrate; 5) natives of Haiti, Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Zaire, or Uganda who entered the U.S. after 1977; 6) positive testers for the HTLV-III antibody; 7) the sexual partner of any of the persons described above; 8) prostitutes active since 1977; 9) and heterosexual partners of male and female prostitutes during the last six months.

Donors were supplied with a help telephone number and a personal identification number. Those who decide at a later time that their blood should not be transfused call the help center and their numbered supply is destroyed.

Blood collected during the drive was taken to the Charlotte office of the Red Cross—the main one for the Piedmont Region. There it is typed and tested for AIDS and hepatitis before being sent to other hospitals in the Piedmont area.

Highlights include the inauguration of the Kenrick Kelley Program and the return of the first black alumni.

For most, Alumni Weekend is a two-day period of renewing old acquaintances, rekindling old friendships, and meeting the newest alumni. But, for Leslie McIver ’87, the reunion coordinator, Alumni Weekend is a year-long process. McIver hopes that as the mass of former Wildcats congregate to the hallowed grounds of their Alma Mater, his planning and toil will all seem worthwhile. This year, the class of 1938 has their Golden Anniversary and the Class of 1963 has their Silver. Of the 136 graduates of the Class of ’38, 60 have registered so far. Of the 270 graduates from '63, 61 plan to attend. In addition to these two milestone classes, the classes of ’28, '33, '43, '48, '53, '58, '63, and '68 return for other festivities.

On Friday at 3:30 p.m., Library Director Leland Park will give a campus historical tour. Also at 3:30 will be a forum on Davidson’s investment policy in South Africa. It will be followed by a presentation from Buddy Kemp, president of NCNB, on the topic, “Fiscal Demands on a Quality College: An Economic Forecast.” The different classes will have separate welcoming receptions from 6:00 to 7:30 p.m. At 8:00 p.m., a banquet will be held for the classes celebrating reunions.

On Saturday morning at 9:30, there will be a program entitled “Davidson Today,” featuring athletic director Christopher B. Morris speaking on Davidson athletics and Dean of Admissions Rob Gardner on admissions at Davidson. At 1:00, a luncheon will be held on the Chambers Lawn featuring music by the Cripple Creek Band, a bluegrass band. The first three black graduates of Davidson, George Nzongola-Ntalaja ’67, Wayne Crumwell ’68, and Leslie Brown ’69, will present a talk entitled “A Historical Perspective of Black Student Life During the Late Sixties” in the Big Screen Room at 3:00.

McIver says that there have been approximately 140 Black graduates and the office expects attendance by one-third of those this weekend. Overall, McIver cited this Alumni Weekend as “one of the strongest ever.” He added that the total number of alumni participating is high and is coupled with an exceptionally good program. There are several events planned that students should enjoy as well as learn from. One of them will be the inauguration of the Ken Kelley Program in Historical Studies. This program was created by the classmates and friends of Ken Kelley ’63 in memorial to his life that was lost in Vietnam. Kelley, a member of the Silver Anniversary Class of ’63, gained numerous awards at Davidson including membership in ODK and captain of Scabbard and Blade. He gained his law degree at Yale before being assigned to active duty in 1967 and died of wounds sustained in a helicopter crash in 1968. Friends, alumni, and faculty members have raised nearly $125,000 toward an endowment in his memory.

The program will involve three areas. A senior history major who best exemplifies the qualities Kelley embodied will receive the Ken Kelley Award. Six to ten history majors will be involved in the Ken Kelley program. This program will involve a special seminar focused on historical research and will make these individuals eligible for cash awards to pursue research further. The final aspect of the endowment will be a Visiting Lecture program where outstanding lecturers in history will be invited to speak to the senior seminar and, if possible, provide a public lecture.