Kappa Sigs win “Best New Chapter” award
By LISA GERRARD

Davidson’s Kappa Sigma fraternity, reinstated in January after a 15-year absence from the college, was recently named best new chapter
at a national Kappa Sigma leadership conference in Charlottesville, Va. To attain the award, the group of 97 Davidson men
surpassed 4 other new chapters in overall campus involvement, academic excellence, financial stability, and success in rush.

Although a core of about 35 seniors began working in 1985 to bring the Delta chapter of Kappa Sigma back
to Patterson Court, most of the preparation to enter the national organization took place last year. The brothers wrote and
submitted to the national chapter a list of bylaws, a history of the chapter, and a history of each brother,
as well as set up their kitchen finances.

Current president John Cock said, “We are real pleased to have gotten it because we did a lot of hard
work last year. It was a good reward.” Among the 200 chapters that belong to the national fraternity, Cock says
Davidson’s group stands out because of their strong sense of commitment and unity. He calls the group very diverse, open,
and accepting. Former treasurer Jim Patterson agrees. “We are a group of individuals but also a group with a big
common interest. We like to stress individual gain as well as group gain.”

According to Cock, one major common interest of the group is their participation in service projects. “A good many of
them are involved in one or more,” he said, noting work with Habitat for Humanity, the Metrolina Food Bank, a
clothing closet in Charlotte, and Cystic Fibrosis dance-a-thons. Cock attributes the Delta chapter’s early success not to the various house
activities, however, but to the friendships within the group. “We have a true sense of brotherhood,” he said.

Thursday, September 22, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

WORKERS, from page 1

claimed that it led to unconscious mistakes and repeated labor that can cause frustration. The multitude of safety checks necessary
to approve the electrical work were, in his opinion, done too quickly in order to meet the prescribed deadlines. He
said that on a job of this size, rushing and pressure are the rule rather than the exception, but he
also felt that this project had been started on an unrealistic timetable that was now causing undue pressure. Working 10
to 12 hours a day six days a week, he has a point.

I tried to get a few words in with the work-site superintendent. He was understandably too busy to say more
than, “You’ve gotta have a deadline,” before returning to the unenviable task of trying to cover all four corners of
a worksite at once. I also got a chance to talk to an experienced worker in the industry who has
worked at Davidson before on Akers, Irwin, and Knox dorms. He felt that the expectations had simply been too high.
He stated that he was really quite amazed at the progress that had already been made. He felt that the
general contractor, Barger Construction, was doing an excellent job, but unrealistic completion dates are common in the construction business and
you just have to live with it.

When asked whether he thought that the dorms would be ready by the new completion dates, he was not sure.
They might, but even if they are, he said, “I sure wouldn’t want to live in them.” With ankle-deep mud
and constant noise until November first or later, I wouldn’t want to either.

On a very serious note, this worker specifically requested...that no Davidson students drive on the gravel road leading to the
soccer field... It is unnecessary and dangerous and it messes up the preparations for future paving. He said that students
look at him and the other men like they are the ones in the way. Please, show a little courtesy
and stay off the road!

As I left the site, I spoke with an old laborer as he shoveled gravel around the new curbing. His
comments summed up, I think, the attitude of many involved with this project when he stated, “I'll be glad as
hell when we get out of this place.”

The attitude of the workers at the site of the new athletic complex seemed more subdued. The general contractors, Rogers
Builders, are making fine progress and the workers were not having to put in excessive overtime. When asked his impression
of Davidson’s grand new project, one grizzled iron worker stated, “It ain’t nothin’. It’s got some big hunks of iron,
but it ain’t nothin’.” He’s been welding up as high as seventeen stories. It doesn’t matter to him as long
as it pays the bills.

Another sub-contracting worker who was doing the plaster for the racquetball courts also seemed quite relaxed about his work. He
is one of five brothers working for his company and he seemed quite satisfied with his work. Work-site morale, he
claimed, was quite high and the work was going smoothly. When asked about the possible safety hazards on the job,
he said that one man had fallen and cracked a few ribs, but he was all right now. Another had
fractured his leg when a load of bricks fell on him off of his hand cart. In an industry where
accidental death is not unheard of, this is an excellent safety record.

The difference in attitude between the two sites seems to me to be the difference between one project fighting deadline
and another still a year from completion, a fact we might want to remember come the scheduled grand opening for
the ’89 basketball season.

---

TUX RENTALS
FORMALS BY
Miami Vice
After Six
Raffinati
Bill Blass
Pierre Cardin
Christian Dior
Lord West
Yves Saint Laurent

MANY TUXES ON DISPLAY (ACCESSORIES AVAILABLE)
Also:
FORMALS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Proms
Weddings
Formals
Order Early

Occasion Shop
Town Square, Cornelius
892-9129
Wide Selection
Low Prices
Hometown Service

---

PHONE, from page 1

through the switchboard. Also, the long-distance service is provided to students at a 10% discount. The college also needed to
update the Dimension 400 switchboard that had been in use since 1977. Expanding phone service would also be easier.

The college footed the $30,000 bill for installation. The office of administrative services will send out bills at the end
of the month and students will have 15 working days to pay their bills to the comptroller’s office. Stephenson encourages
students to contact his office if they have questions or comments. Tim Sparks is chairman of the SGA committee that
will work with the office of administrative services to gather student opinion and address concerns.

“I haven’t talked to anyone who said it’s a great system,” Sparks said. Sparks believes that fixing the system would
require two changes: “All that really needs to get done is to get more lines and get access to an
operator. Those are the two points SGA will be pushing for,” Sparks said.

---

The Bar at Peregrine Fine Food and Spirits
THURSDAY
Senior Pitcher Night $2.75
$1.50 Mixed Drinks
I.D. Required
Come Join the Fun!

---

WE DELIVER THE BEST PIZZA IN TOWN.
