THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LACONDOS
("Let learning be cherished where lakeside condos have arisen")

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

Vandalism and alcohol

Whenever there’s a rash of vandalism at Davidson (in other words, about every other week) the most campus administrators and officials can usually do is to shake their heads over the stupidity of it all. “It just doesn’t make any sense,” they say, “I don’t know what the cause is.” Perhaps they just don’t have the heart to say what they (and anybody else who’s been here for more than a few weeks) have known for years: that vandalism is just a relatively minor symptom of Davidson’s chronic drinking problem.

That’s right, problem. Bright kids who come to schools like Davidson don’t break cast-iron lampposts because they’re bored, or because they’re trying to hasten the day of violent revolution, or because they feel hopelessly imprisoned by the oppressive spiritual limitations of everyday material existence. Smart upper-middle-class kids generally have smart upper-middle-class pastimes. But then they get drunk, or indulge in chic chemical amusements. Somehow the world starts to shrink, and it becomes enormously amusing to destroy things. The intoxicated mind derives a sense of power from smashing windows, tearing down road signs, ripping water fountains off walls, and wrecking campus police vehicles. It’s the same sense of awe and fascination you can get from watching a hanging; you see something else utterly destroyed while you’re not hurt at all, and consequently you feel great. It’s an excellent way to pass time until the hangover strikes.

Another advantage of intoxication is the built-in excuse. Who cares if I broke a window or threw a chair down the stairs? “Hey, I was drunk,” I can say afterward. I’ll still have to pay for the damage, of course, but my friends won’t get upset with me. Hell, they'll laugh about it with me. Why? Because it’s happened to them, too. That’s also why people love to hear stories about what other people did while they were drunk. Misery loves company.

The alcohol problem here at Davidson may not be as bad as it is on other campuses. That doesn’t mean we can ignore it. It means we should face up to it, just like confessed alcoholics do, and try to figure out why an institution of such excellence has even a moderate drug/alcohol/vandalism problem. It’s up to the students to do that. Administrators and college officials may rail against vandals, but they can’t criticize drinking too much or they’ll damage their credibility. Nobody likes a preacher. So students are left to their own devices, to try to figure out why they drink so much and whether it’s worth it to try to control the problem. Do we have to have alcohol at all Patterson Court functions? Does Davidson social life really have to center around bashes with loud music and heavy drinking? Is intoxication really the only way to alleviate academic pressure?

It seems unrealistic to expect Davidson’s social scene to undergo any dramatic changes. After all, the modern Davidson is the only one that today’s students have ever known, and it’s the one they’ll remember for the rest of their lives. Could it ever change? Stranger things have happened.

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first-class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, AaronHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog. Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, John Harris, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill Scouten, Shannon O’Shields, Florrie Snively. Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Owogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell. Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts. Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn. Production Staff: Lev Bromstein, Nikolai Bukharin, Lev Kamenev, Sergei Kirov, Osip Mendelshtam, Andrei Zhdanov, Grigori Zinoviev. Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen. Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger. Towa Cavers. 

Wednesday, February 10, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

That To Do With The GREAT PaipsoN Pou-ncar Piseussions

Letters

Union Board selection

To the Editor:

Last week, the Davidsonian printed a letter to the Editor written in reference to events surrounding the selection of the new Union Board. The letter concerned the turning down of an applicant team for a committee chair position and expressed concern that an injustice had been done to those applicants. We, the new officers of the Union Board, are writing in order to clarify what has become an unfortunate misunderstanding.

We must first of all say that we understand and appreciate the concern and effort that was involved in the writing of the letter. We do not fault its authors for making their opinion known and standing up for their friends. We do, however, feel that their conception of what transpired is grounded in a fundamental misconception not only of our actions but also of the application process in general.

The authors of the letter wrote that, “... the present system of determining members of the Union Board should be re-examined for the sake of the students who choose to run for positions, for the Union itself, and for the entire student body.” According to the bylaws of the Student Union, the elected officers have the responsibility of selecting committee chairpersons. The officers of the Union should not only be allowed but also should be expected to appoint the best chairpersons possible in order to give this campus the kind of Union Board that it has come to expect. The interview process has proven to be the most helpful and efficient method by which the officers can drum up student interest on campus. Any student is eligible for appointment to the Board. The goal of the selection process is the creation of a cohesive, dynamic, and effective Union Board. Any fair method of selection involves the making of difficult decisions. Though one may question judgment, there is no question as to our integrity or good intentions.

We are excited about the new Union Board. The Union is not an exclusive organization on campus. It exists for the students, and we encourage any and all to participate. All Union Board meetings are open, as are positions on the various committees. We hope that all students who expressed interest in committee leadership positions will continue to seek involvement. We stand behind our decisions and look forward to working with the new Union Board.

Sarah Whitesides
Frank Whitaker
Trina Janiec

Thanks

Dear Friends:

I was very touched by the acts of love and support that I received from the college community during my stay at the hospital. Your cards, calls, visits, and other expressions of concern meant a great deal to me and my family. The support you showed following the accident made the days in the hospital a much more bearable time. So many of you did so much for me that a simple “thank you” could never suffice. You know who you are; I am forever in your debt. I plan to respond to all your acts of kindness individually, but no doubt that will take some time. I thought that a letter in The Davidsonian would be a good place to start. I miss you all and will look forward to the day that I can return to Davidson. Thanks again.

Sincerely,
Reese Boyd