Thursday, October 20, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson: National Issues
By ED POWELL

Medicine
On Tuesday, two North Carolina medical researchers were named the recipients of this year’s Nobel Prize for Medicine. Gertrude Elion
and George Hitchings were awarded the prestigious honor for their work in the field of medical research. Their work led
to the discovery of drugs helpful in the treatment of leukemia, gout, malaria, herpes virus infections, and organ transplant rejection.
Both are long-term employees of the Burroughs Wellcome Co., a medical research lab in the Research Triangle Park near Raleigh.

Business
Earlier this week, the Philip Morris Companies made an $11.5 billion bid to take over Kraft, Inc. The offer, made
in cash, would pay Kraft roughly $90 per share, $30 over its present value. This offer marks one of the
biggest takeover ventures in history, second only to Gulf Oil’s purchase of Chevron four years ago. If they are successful,
Philip Morris will become the world’s largest consumer producer.

Elections
In the wake of last week's Presidential debate, Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis may be on the last legs of his
attempt to regain the White House from the Republicans. While both sides are claiming victory in this debate, it appears
that Bush was the big winner as he has widened his lead even further over Dukakis in the polls. Dukakis
has been behind Bush ever since the Republican convention and with the debates over and election day less than three
weeks away, he will have to make up a lot of ground fast if he hopes to catch Bush.

Coming into the debate held at UCLA’s Pauley Pavilion, Bush had everything to lose and Dukakis everything to gain. The
Dukakis camp had hoped that Bush might make some real mistakes in the course of the debate, allowing Dukakis back
into the race, but this did not happen. Neither candidate particularly shined over the course of the ninety minutes of
the debate, which was again marked by both candidates’ evasion of the moderator’s questions. Bush again defended his choice of
Dan Quayle as his running mate and criticized the media for their treatment of the Indiana Senator.

It was revealed earlier this week that the Dukakis campaign is pulling out of the South and concentrating all of
their final efforts in just 18 states. These states, primarily West Coast and Northeastern, are big electoral college states and
a gain there might mean more than narrowing the races in the South.

Locally, it appears that G.O.P. candidate Jim Gardner may have a shot at winning the North Carolina Lieutenant Governorship. If
he were to steal this race away from his Democratic opponent Tony Rand, he would be the first Republican lieutenant
governor in 80 years. A recent Charlotte Observer Poll had him leading Rand by a 47 to 34 percent margin.
Nonetheless, the eventual winner is certain to preside over a decidedly Democratic Senate next year in Raleigh.

Beyond Davidson: International Issues
By BETH DRUMMOND and CAROL GATEWOOD

Serbians in 2 Yugoslavian provinces continued U.S. use of two military bases in the strategically important island nation. In exchange,
the U.S. will providethe Czech Socialist Republic, and were significantly diluted by a Boeing 707 that crashed on the runway
at Leonardo da Vinci airport, killing 31 of 52 passengers. The pilot attempted to land the plane three times in
a thick fog. The fog and misunderstandings between the pilot and the air control tower were possible factors in the
accident, according to investigators.

Abyei, Sudan
Civil war between the Sudanese government and the Southern People’s Liberation Army continues to prolong starvation in Sudan. Since the
beginning of this year, 10,000 inhabitants of the city of Abyei have starved, most of them Dinka refugees from the
war. Relief has arrived from UNICEF and the U.S. Agency for International Development. The U.N. will call for a $50
million donation to aid the refugees.

The Philippines
Secretary of State George Shultz and Philippine Foreign Minister Raul Manglapus signed an agreement on Monday for $962 million in
aid in 1990 and 1991. An increase of $258 million beyond previous levels of involvement, the new treaty commits the
U.S. to both economic and military assistance. Washington sources say the agreement could foreshadow an extension of U.S. military presence
in the Philippines beyond 1991, but the terms will have to be negotiated, probably some time next year.

Changes Rock Eastern Europe
Government reorganizations and widespread social unrest have erupted in most of the major Eastern European nations following Gorbachev’s sweeping party
changes in the Soviet Union. Political and social tension has escalated in Poland, Hungary, Romania, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia.

Czechoslovakia
Government shake-ups similar to the recent Soviet political reorganization have received the most press attention. Peter Colka, Premier of Slovakia,
handed in formal resignations from office and gave up their seats on the country’s 12-member ruling Politburo. The resignations follow
a scandal uncovered last year in which both men were named as participants in a far-reaching government corruption scheme. Strougal
was considered a strong advocate of economic reform similar to the Soviet lead. Communist Party Chief Milos Jakes refused to
comment on possible successors for the leadership of the two national republics.

Yugoslavia
Protests in Yugoslavia have highlighted the many political changes that have recently occurred in Eastern Bloc countries. Widespread demonstrations have
brought about the resignation of several Communist Party leaders. Analysts suspect that Slobodan Milosevic, the powerful Serbian party leader, will
try to fill the political void caused by the death of Tito 8 years ago. Current Yugoslavian leaders have been
unsuccessful in solving the country’s severe economic problems which lie at the heart of the recent political unrest.

If you're looking for a good-paying job, make it easy on yourself. Contact your local Domino's Pizza store, and cash
in on your driving skills. Earn up to $9.00 an hour! Call 664-7300.

DOMINO'S PIZZA

DAVIDSON AUTOGRAPH PARTY
Mary Beaty, Assistant Director of the Davidson College Library, will sign copies of her new book, A History of Davidson
College, on Friday, Oct. 28, 4-6 pm. Reserve Your Copies Now! 892-6841.
