Monday, April 4, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jon Dyar Boles, Chief Executive Officer  
Keith Finch, Editorialist  
Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editor  
Tripp Helms, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors  
Rachel Nation, Inside Art Editor  
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor  
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors  
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager  
John Wightman, Business Manager  
Lucia Kendall, Opinions Editor, Circulation Manager  
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus  
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor  
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Section Production Editors  

Out in the cold

Does the idea of going abroad frighten you? If it doesn’t, why don’t you call the Residence Life Office to see if you’d be eligible for next year’s housing lottery? They’ll surely convince you to stay at home. Americans in general have acquired a reputation for ignorance of international affairs, and Davidson students are no exception. Foreign language requirements, World Hunger Forums, and international awareness tests notwithstanding, the average Davidson student knows little of the outside world, and cares even less. This little college is too peaceful and beautiful to inspire thoughts of other lands, and it is a bold student indeed who aspires to take the great, uncertain leap into a program for study abroad.

Yet Davidson’s foreign study programs have remained strong over recent years, and it was widely believed that next year’s switch to a semester calendar would encourage even more students to spend time learning about the world beyond the New South. But now the Residence Life Office has decided to exclude students from the housing lottery if they plan to spend Fall semester abroad. Apparently the extra paperwork was getting a little too tough to handle, and so the Office made a sudden pronouncement: if you want a room, stay at home where you belong. Otherwise you’re out in the cold.

It’s tough to return to Davidson after spending time abroad. Just ask any senior who spent last year in France or Germany; if he or she didn’t have trouble re-adjusting to life here, one of his or her friends did. Imagine how hard it will be for next year’s travelers, forced to leave their foreign friends behind and return to Davidson just as those depressing Winter months begin. With no place to live they’ll be doubly insecure, and the threat of this insecurity might be enough to keep many of them from ever leaving Davidson at all. Is this tragedy justified because it will help reduce the Residence Life Office’s paper-shuffling load? Even if the policy is justified, it’s grossly unfair to announce it just weeks before the end of Spring term. Many students who had planned to go abroad next semester have suddenly discovered they’ll be without rooms when they return, and they’re quite naturally upset. Who wants to return from Europe to live in some cold, lonely basement miles from campus? Out of concern for these unfortunate students and for the well-being of Davidson’s international outlook, The Davidsonian urges the Residence Life Office to rescind this unfair, ill-advised and destructive policy.

Late again

Believe it or not, The Davidsonian used to be published every Friday as regular as clockwork. You may have noticed, though, that it’s been late fairly often recently. We offer this excuse: our use of a new computer system has slowed our production time immensely, primarily because only two people on campus have really learned how to use it well. These two individuals, who usually met their deadlines last term (even if they had to work for forty-eight hours straight), no longer have as much time to devote to the newspaper. One look at their report cards from last term would show you why. We are therefore attempting to train more staff members in the use of our software, but in the meantime the paper takes even longer to publish. We apologize, particularly to our writers, who may have trouble understanding why they have to meet deadlines if the paper is always coming out three or four days late. We anticipate considerable improvement of this situation, and we beg your forgiveness and indulgence.

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Females desiring to date Jon Boles, Fulbright Scholar and Davidsonian Emperor-in-Chief, can send their applications to his personal secretary and head lackey Keith Finch. Jon’s extra grad school acceptance letters will be auctioned off next Thursday.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, WaltReynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog. Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, John Harris, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill “Burgers Again” Scouten, Shannon O’Shields, Florrie Snively. Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Otrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell. Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts. Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn. Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen. Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelguy. The views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25.

Hey Mona! Happy Easter. Here’s My Laundry. \\ per _ (Om Is M Ready & WAKE UP for, Tier! Letters Louderback

Dear Editor:

I am writing you in regards to Joseph Louderback's recent letter to the editor in The Davidsonian. As a student who has spent the last three years at Davidson working against apartheid and for divestment, I feel obligated to personally respond to your letter.

If you are anything like your son, I have great respect for you. When you say you are not a racist, I believe you. However, the government of South Africa is quite racist. As a matter of fact, it is violently racist. Our country is at war with governments with better human rights records than South Africa. If you and I are not racists, then why should we support such an oppressively racist regime? Or more to the point, why should a morally upright, Christian-linked educational institution like Davidson College support racism in the form of apartheid? The answer from a moral standpoint, I believe, is that it should not. An institution of strong moral standing that teaches its students how to be responsible and honorable adults cannot rightfully support anything as vile and unethical as apartheid.

In the same sense, Davidson College should not support companies that support or even profit from racism, specifically apartheid. Can we, as a college dedicated to “those studies, disciplines, and activities which liberate mankind physically, mentally, and spiritually,” turn around and invest our money in companies that support the apartheid regime by arming and fueling the oppressive and violent security forces as Ford and Mobil have done; giving technology that enabled Pretoria to build a nuclear arsenal as IBM did; or forcing their laborers to work at gunpoint as has been the case with Shell? We are not racist and we should not support companies that support or profit from racism.

Divestment, however, is not the economic suicide you have been led to believe. The companies in South Africa have openly admitted that their future over the next five years is increasingly shaky and, past that, it is uncertain at best. Now, is it sound investment practice to invest $22 million in companies whose futures are shaky and uncertain at best? Of course not. The trustees of UNC voted last October to divest because they realized that it was in the best economic interest of the university to do so. But, if you are still concerned about losing money, evidence shows that throughout the country, the majority of organizations that have divested have had their investment portfolio increase, while others were able to recoup their losses after a short time, usually one to two years. Such examples are as varied as the state of Massachusetts, the city of Philadelphia, the University of Wisconsin, and Michigan State, whose portfolio earned an additional $1 million soon after divestment. Their experiences have been repeated across the country, as Joan Bavaria, President of Franklin Research Company said, “[studies] have shown that over time South Africa-free companies have outperformed the restricted stocks with a minimal amount of risk.” This evidence comes from the American Committee on Africa, if you are interested in looking into it further. Basically, it is a matter of capable investment practice and such practices do exist without racism.

In conclusion, sir, I would like to state that if you do not have any problems with the ethics of the companies you do business with, please feel free to make your personal investments the way you choose. However, I feel I speak with the faculty when I say that it is our money also, it is our college, and our moral standing on the line. We choose not to have our college stained by the blood of the South Africans. We choose not to have our education financed by racism in any form, apartheid or otherwise. I have given you reasons to divest on moral and financial grounds. There is much more to say, and I hope that one day we will be able to discuss the matter face to face. But until then, if you still do not agree with me, feel free to invest and shop the way you please, but allow those of us who are fighting racism the chance to do so.

Sincerely,
Kevin Dunn ’89