Friday, January 22, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CHARADE from p.10

state law was broken. I have two questions now. First, why was my fraternity brought up on charges given the precedent and circumstances which could have easily been attained with minimal research effort? Second, why does the rule for Davidson students cited earlier exist which caused the monitoring person’s eating house to be sanctioned by the PCC? I believe the monitor was a victim of an unnecessary rule. When I question rule number three, I really question the discrimination against Davidson students, i.e., requiring a D.C. I.D. instead of the license or passport accepted from any other individual.

To address this issue, let us begin with the Code of Responsibility’s preamble which states its aim as “to encourage individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing their conduct with a minimum of specific prohibitions.” Continuing, it states “an elaborate system of rules strictly enforced might promote a surface conformity to the standards of behavior desired, but would not effectively serve to develop the maturity of character which is the aim of the college. Rather, responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions.” The preamble goes on to state that specific rules are only cited to preserve the freedoms and well-being of others and to prevent the disruption of community life. Finally, it is stated that “nothing contained in this code is intended to condone or excuse the violation of any applicable public law or regulation.”

I look at the preamble and wonder how the PCC rules could have been written, specifically rule number three, when they seem so diametrically opposed to the commitment to “a minimum of specific prohibitions.” I do not believe the framers of the rules were stupid, so I asked what the reasoning behind the I.D. requirement was. The answer was not delivered with utter confidence, but I did get a legitimate concern, and I added another which I had often heard before from other individuals. I will address both.

The reasoning (that may be stretching the truth) settled upon in the PCC was that discerning the validity of state licenses given the variety between fifty states was considered too tough for a Davidson student. To ensure the protection against a liability suit involving a minor, the council decided to make every person use a uniform I.D. which was assumed to be tough to forge. One may agree with the reasoning at first glance, but let us dig deeper.

The Code of Responsibility is again a good place to begin because of the sections listed after the preamble which cite the rules and responsibilities. Under Section V: Alcoholic Beverages, it is stated that “Davidson College, as an institution, expects to operate in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina with regard to the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages by anyone under twenty-one years of age [which] is forbidden by the State of North Carolina. The use, sale, and possession of alcoholic beverages on the Davidson campus is subject to this law.” The last sentence of this section states the “Patterson Court houses have a special responsibility to ensure that their officers and members know and abide by the ABC laws of the state.”

I am really interested in this whole situation. We as an institution are to abide by state laws concerning alcohol, but we accept a Davidson I.D. as proof of age. If you want to have some fun, go to the local ABC store and give them your D.C. I.D. Then explain the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility. You might get a good laugh and a finger indicating the direction of the exit, but you will not get your fifth. The college I.D. is not acceptable identification. I checked with a lawyer on this point. He said the D.C. I.D. was certainly not appropriate from the state’s point of view. The best thing about the D.C. I.D., according to the attorney, is that it is better than using nothing, and he added that we seem to be setting ourselves up for a prime liability suit similar to ones he has dealt with on several occasions before. So why do we imagine we are protecting ourselves by looking at the same uniform D.C. I.D. when any court would scoff at such a policy?

I know some of you are thinking a valid reason here is the difficulty of forging a D.C. I.D. Sorry. I know of a person who came to Davidson as a prospective student and obtained an I.D. I will not elaborate on the process, but I checked with an individual who recently received another I.D. The process has not changed. Why do we not just change to checking drivers’ licenses? If you are doing a conscientious job as a monitor, you have nothing to worry about or be found guilty of. Everyone knows fairly well when a license does not belong to the person presenting it. Bars choose to ignore the differences as long as some minimal resemblance exists, but we do not have to follow this loose type of screening. If a person has gone to the trouble of using his own picture and forging the other details for a nearly perfect license, I do not believe a person would be held accountable for giving the stamp of clearance. I had a friend who hid in a dumpster behind the Highway Patrol station to obtain the actual state seal and other items for a perfect forgery. He was caught in a fluke situation after purchasing beer in a convenience store. Given the near-perfect forgery, the clerk was not found guilty of breaking a state law.

Returning to the Code of Responsibility, we could treat any individual using false identification as an adult by letting him assume full responsibility for his deception. Under Section I: Academic Responsibility, it is stated that “acts of basic dishonesty, while not dealt with in the Honor Code, may be dealt with by the Honor Council.” The example cited is “a student who represents himself or herself with a false identification card may be charged with an act of dishonesty. The false use ofA Davidson I.D. card constitutes the misuse of an official college document.” Remember the possible reasoning offered for rule number three of the PCC? I suggested that the rule existed to allow the prosecution of a student who falsely presented or forged a D.C. I.D. under the Honor Code. The Honor Code covers cheating, stealing, and “lying about official college business.” I can see how obtaining an inaccurate I.D. through telling a lie could be deemed breaking the college business clause. I can also see someone making a case for the changing of a Davidson I.D. Such a “doctoring” might be deemed tampering with an official document which could be considered part of college business. I still have a question. Why are we so insistent on having this particular violation, i.e. falsified identification of a D.C. I.D., as an Honor Code violation? I believe that the rule was made specifically to be covered by the Honor Code. Do people believe no reports of a breach in the Code of Responsibility will occur in regard to changed driver’s licenses? In my opinion, reports of violations have been filed primarily without regard to an Honor Code violation. Instead, reports have stemmed from efforts to make the PCC work and/or to avoid stiffer sanctions through self-admittance of a violation. I believe people generally do not attempt to break the rules by going “downstairs” at a party because nobody wants to jeopardize his/her eating house’s (and hopefully nobody else’s) eligibility to party. The members of a house certainly do not want one jerk to ruin everything, so they work well in monitoring themselves, as well as others. Ask any person how many times he was questioned about his age after first entering the “21 Club” legitimately. In an effort to abide by PCC rules, the fact is an exceptional case of self-governance has developed that would continue without the Honor Code.

Thus, I ask again why we want to use rule number three? Why are we so intent on having an Honor Code cover? I am certainly concerned with what appears to have been a yearly erosion of concern for the Honor Code. However, I am also equally concerned for the Code of Responsibility which has been abused. Are not both codes vital to the Davidson College community? I think they are, and I wonder why we insist on making the Code of Responsibility appear weak by removing a rule from it and placing it under the Honor Code instead. Both codes are dealt with in much the same manner, i.e. by Dean Terry or the Honor Council, and the punishments for each code are identical in scope. Give back the Code of Responsibility’s teeth by allowing it to cover falsification of identification of any kind as was originally intended. The college can then let an individual make mature decisions as an adult and accept the full consequences of any wrongdoing. Finally, I think it is critical that the breaking of the I.D. rule be prosecuted with a severity indicative of the crime’s seriousness in the eyes of the Honor Council or Dean Terry. I am sure some readers are thinking that nothing would be wrong with just expanding the Honor Code to include all falsification of I.D. because this move would allow use of a driver’s license. I disagree. The Honor Code and Code of Responsibility were deliberately formed as separate entities, and a reason does exist for this action. I discussed this with an administrator who was here when both codes were formed. The Honor Code covers infractions for which there is a consensus of opinion. Nearly everyone believes cheating, stealing, and lying about college business should not be tolerated to any degree. The Code of Responsibility covers those actions which are vital to protecting individuals and the community; however, the extensive degree of agreement on these rules does not exist as in the Honor Code. Think of how many people believe the change of state laws to twenty-one as the legal drinking age is ridiculous or that nothing is wrong with cohabitation and whatever it might include. The rule for falsification of identification was originally intended to be under the Code of Responsibility and should remain there. With my questions and suggestions, I believe we could have a completely workable solution which would be a marked improvement over the present one. Students could use their licenses instead of suffering from the discrimination of rule number three in the PCC policy. The college and eating houses would be less susceptible to prosecution by ending this charade and using a valid state-accepted verification of age which the Code of Responsibility is dedicated to upholding by acting in compliance with state laws. Finally, the Code of Responsibility could benefit from a surge of respectability as would the students who would like to act in accordance with the spirit of the code—that is, as adults who are free to make choices for themselves and accept any consequences of their decisions.

To conclude, let me say thank you to any reader who stayed with me to this point. Let me apologize for succumbing to apathy previously when this policy has seemed so flawed to me from its inception. I freely admit that the inconvenience of this whole affair initially stimulated this writing. I want to make an official call to the PCC to review the policy immediately, and I hope the readers of this issue will support my request. I understand the PCC policy, under the dictates of Section III, 1, may be amended any time during the year. I also realize a date has been set to evaluate the policy as a whole at the end of Spring term, 1988. However, with the contradictions of the policy in relation to the Code of Responsibility, state laws, and the Honor Code, and because the potential for a seriously regrettable incident exists, I think the time to act is now.

David Ethridge is a verbose senior economics major from Newton, North Carolina.

After 9 p.m. SPECIAL
Monday - Thursday
12 in. with 3 toppings - $6.50
16 in. with 3 toppings - $7.75
- not including extra cheese -
Mon. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sun. 4:30 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Delivering to Davidson College Free