sports

Around the Horn
Morris views achievements of Davidson athletics
By HAP BRYANT

Athletic director Christopher B. “Kit” Morris expressed his views on the Davidson athletic scene in an interview last week. Like President John Kuykendall, Morris sees an overall upward trend in the Wildcat athletic program. Also like Kuykendall, Morris remains committed to the 1973 Trustee athletic policy, basing all his decisions on the stipulations of that policy, saying “we want to do what we do in a way that doesn’t run against the grain of what Davidson provides [academically].”

In particular, Morris is adamant about finding a conference affiliation for Davidson. That desire has forced him to explore many different options, as Davidson is now an independent in all sports except football and field hockey. “I’d like to be in a conference before we go into the new sports complex, but that’s not something we are allowed to choose,” he said.

According to Morris, the best option, though it remains only partially open, is the Colonial Athletic Association. He calls it “the best fit” of any Division I conference in Davidson’s geographic area. However, the Colonial Athletic Association has no plans to expand currently. Morris is not sure if that conference will open its doors to any new members in the near future: “No one else has the desperate kind of need [for a conference] that we do right now.” Consequently, Davidson must test the waters as an independent this season.

Davidson’s schedules, particularly in basketball, will be changed drastically. Morris looks positively on the new schedule: “We’ve put together a schedule for this year that may not be the sexiest in the world, but its power rating is stronger than the Southern Conference schedule.” In addition, independent status will allow Davidson to schedule more games-- “We’ll play more than 28 games this year.” However, also with independent status comes the harsh realities--no potential for an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament and no great rivalry to rally the campus. According to Morris, “at this juncture, strangely enough, the closest thing we have to a natural rivalry is across the county [at UNCC].”

But Morris believes Davidson teams will hold their own as independents. He says, “most of our teams look like they’re going to do o.k. this year.” Particularly, Morris noted the good starts of the fall women’s teams. He praised “the improved competitive stature of a couple of our women’s teams--both field hockey and volleyball have gotten off to good starts.” Overall, he looks hopefully on the “non-revenue” sports, emphasizing the increased budgets of all those sports in the last three years. According to Morris, the budgets of the non-revenue sports have doubled in that period. “I’m committed that these sports be more than an afterthought,” he said.

Morris commented on the soccer team’s international competition in England last spring, the winningest baseball team in school history (’88), the four straight 20-win seasons in men’s tennis, and the successful transition of women’s tennis from Division III to Division I. However, he admits that his desires for the football team have not been realized. “I’d hoped when I came here that football would provide the same kind of community building activity in the fall that basketball does in the winter--to date, we haven’t achieved that kind of success.” Addressing the option of Division III status, Morris said that the financial obligations, at least for football, would remain essentially the same.

Finally, Morris anxiously awaits the completion of the new sports complex. He notes the importance of first-class facilities in the quest for a national basketball program, as well as the opportunities that will arise, both for athletes and for other students, when the complex is completed. As is natural for a person in his position, Morris tends to emphasize the positive rather than the negative. However, there is no doubt that change is occurring in the Davidson athletic program. Hopefully, “Around the Horn” will be able to explore other aspects of the changes and other opinions on them.

Football
Davidson football past and present
By BRUCE NEWSOME

With the Cats having an off week, I decided to go through the archives, study the history of Davidson football, and examine the Cats' situation in the Colonial League. Since 1896 Davidson has compiled a 307-435-45 record through the September 10 game with Lehigh. However, since the 1896 victory over Salisbury Medical School has little significance on the present Davidson team, I decided to look at the program from the mid-1960s onward.

The 1965-69 seasons under Head Coach Homer Smith were Davidson’s football heyday. Smith’s teams went 24-24 in these 5 years. In Smith’s last season, the Cats went 7-4 and won the Southern Conference. This feat earned the Cats an automatic bid to the Tangerine Bowl where they lost 56-33 to Toledo. After this season the Board of Trustees changed the course of Davidson football. In the spring of 1970, they voted to abolish the no-need football scholarships and to give scholarship money based on financial need. After 4 sub-par seasons, in 1974 Davidson decided to stop competing for the Southern Conference Championship. From 1974-86 Davidson would usually play a few games against Southern Conference schools each year and find other schools to fill the rest of the schedule. In these years Davidson compiled a37-89-1 record. Twenty-four of these 37 victories came in the 1977-81 seasons when Coach Ed Farrell led his teams to a respectable 24-26 record. During this period, there were two games that stand out. The first one was a wild 63-55 loss to Furman, which until last year was an NCAA record for most points scored in a losing effort. The second notable game was in 1981 when Davidson beat its last NCAA Division I-AA opponent, Boston University, 44-14 (yes, Columbia has won an I-AA game more recently than Davidson has). This year’s seniors were freshmen in high school when Davidson won its last I-AA game.

A major change in Davidson football occurred in 1984. Davidson, Bucknell, Lehigh, Colgate, Holy Cross, and Lafayette joined together to form the football-only Colonial League. The league was formed to unite schools that are trying to combine good academics and I-AA football. This year Davidson is in its second year of conference play, although it will not play a full schedule until 1989. A major cause of Davidson being removed from the Southern Conference at the end of last year was the school’s affiliation with the Colonial League. Leaving aside the question of whether or not the football team should dictate the direction of Davidson athletics in general, another question is how good a deal is the Colonial League for Davidson. Although a weaker football conference than the Southern Conference, the Colonial League does have some national powers. Holy Cross compiled a 21-1 record the last two years and finished the 1987 season ranked #1 in I-AA. This year the Crusaders are off to a slow start with a 1-2 record, including an upset loss to Lafayette. As a result of this victory, Lafayette is ranked #12 in the polls.

Davidson is not only the smallest school in the Colonial League but also the smallest school playing I-AA football. The league’s next smallest school is Lafayette with 2000 students. Holy Cross is the largest with 4400 students. This size difference seriously hurts Davidson in the sheer number of players that can get into the school. In addition to being the smallest school in the league, Davidson also has the hardest academics. Hard academics and good football teams do not necessarily go together as witnessed by the University of Oklahoma’s success. Because of Davidson’s high standard of academics, the number of potential recruits that can get into and stay in Davidson is limited. A lack of winning tradition also hurts Davidson recruiting. This is especially true when recruiting against the Ivy League schools for the top student-athletes. The Ivies, with the possible exception of Columbia, can offer an education comparable with Davidson and a better football tradition. A recruit who can play either at Davidson or at, say, Harvard is likely to go to Harvard where he can play on last year’s Ivy League Champion. A final problem in the recruiting area for Davidson is location. Bucknell, Lafayette, and Lehigh are all located in Pennsylvania, which is one of the top 5 states in the nation for high school football.

By CHANDLER SHEPPARD

In the first game of the three-team round robin tournament Wednesday, Davidson waltzed through Augusta College in three games. The Wildcats showed confidence and enthusiasm, streaking through the first match. This success carried over into the marathon match against rival Winthrop College. Those who stayed to watch the three-hour, five-game match with the Winthrop Eagles were not disappointed. Davidson took the first two games of the match and appeared to have total control, only to see Winthrop come back with some powerful play to win the third and fourth games. The fifth game was a see-saw battle. After serving many match points, Davidson was finally able to convert and take a 15-13 win. Coach Rebecca Hawkins gave the crowd some credit for the win: “After we won two, we died down just like the crowd, but in the fifth game the crowd was really in it, which helped us to win.” The Wildcats were led in hitting by Michelle Plauche and Molly Graver with consistent sets by Holt Hathaway. Defensively, Maria Douglas, Peggy Tietjen, Ellen Ott, and Hathaway led the way for the Davidson squad.

Last weekend at the East Carolina University tournament, Davidson faced some formidable competition. In the first game, the Wildcats played the host Pirates. Davidson dropped the first game, 15-13, after having led most of the way. They went on to lose the next two games, both by scores of 15-9. The Cats were pitted against the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets of the ACC in their next match. The Jackets, a scholarship team, took three straight games, 15-11, 15-4, 15-1. Freshman Holt Hathaway was chosen by the coaches of Davidson’s women’s sports teams as “Women’s Sports Player of the Week.” Hathaway, a setter from Charlotte, was picked for her performances against Guilford College and Winthrop. The Cats will be in action in Johnston Gym on Tuesday, September 27, at 7:00 against Campbell University. On the 29th, they travel to Winston-Salem for matches against Salem and cabins.