Friday, March 25, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jon Dyar Boles, General Secretary  
Josif Dzhugashvili, Opinions Editor  
Suzanne Craymer, Features Editor  
Tripp Helms, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors  
Keith Finch, Editorialist  
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor  
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors  
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager  
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager  
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus  
John Wightman, Business Manager  
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor  
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Jennifer Hoffman, Section Production Editors

---

In praise of tuition hikes.

Parents across the country are cursing as they reach for their checkbooks. The cost of attending Davidson has increased again, to more than $13,500, and for no readily apparent reason. “Where is all the money going?” parents and students ask themselves, wondering how inflation rates of four percent or lower could have forced the college to hike the comprehensive fee by almost ten percent. “What are they using the money for? Better chairs and desks? Higher salaries for professors? Perhaps they’re just pouring it all into that mud-filled strip mine next to the ruins of Hobart Park?”

Despite the popular illusion that Davidson is wallowing in cash from grants and gifts, tuition still represents the college’s single most important source of income. The comprehensive fee accounts for about sixty percent of the $29.2 million budget, so any significant improvement in college services has to be supported (at least in part) by students and their parents. If you’re against the tuition increase, then you really don’t have the right to complain about low professor salaries (currently among the lowest in the state), computer shortages, or squeaky desks in Chambers.

But there’s another, far more compelling reason to support next year’s tuition increase, or at least to grin and bear it. For although the comprehensive fee seems hefty enough to scare away virtually any underprivileged or middle-class student, it in fact represents a price paid only by the wealthiest fraction of those who attend Davidson. Like movie theaters, airlines, and most other American colleges, Davidson practices what economists like to call “price discrimination.” Sixty thousand dollars is an awful lot to shell out for four years of school. So much, in fact, that less than half of Davidson’s students can afford to pay it. Just like children and senior citizens, who get discounts at movie theaters because they couldn’t otherwise afford to go, Davidson’s less wealthy students get tuition breaks in the form of financial aid. So the $13,500 figure just represents the highest price Davidson can expect you to pay for a year of education. Every student who receives financial aid pays a different price, a price which is (at least in theory) exactly equal to the amount which he or she can afford.

Whenever tuition rises, college expenditures on financial aid rise even more. Fully one-third of next year’s tuition increase will be used for financial aid, amounting to the largest yearly increase in financial aid funding in the history of Davidson. The college will have even more money — about a tenth of its entire annual budget, in fact — to educate those hundreds of its willing, capable students who just don’t happen to be rolling in dough. This is where all the money goes, and this explains why the comprehensive fee is increasing at a rate far greater than inflation.

If price discrimination bothers you, consider this: it’s the American way. Only in the United States can you find hundreds of colleges (Davidson among them) which promise to meet one hundred percent of the financial need of every student they admit. If you’re a good student you can get a great education, even if you have no money whatsoever. And if you’re truly brilliant, America’s finest institutions will swing their portals open before you, beckoning you to enter and forget your poverty. In higher education, more than anywhere else, hard work and talent really can translate into a realization of “the American dream.” In other words, though you might be upset to fork over a few hundred more bucks for next year’s tuition, at least you can take comfort in the knowledge that a big chunk of your money is going to students who need it far more than you do.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Funding comes from your tuition bills. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed inLetters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request, and my, they're reasonable. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, John Harris, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill Scouten, Shannon O'Shields, Florrie Snively.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Otrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

Div You Hearn Har Ovor Terrien Is Gowg Ue haan & Yen, Bor 1 Agree WitH It. fKEA iuy,! vie Way ¢ We we, Iv Manes “Davipsew More Competitive Wate Means Heuer “NATIONAL RECOGNITION. Ye Natiowac RECOGNITION é By WHom 2! Our PAREN Ts’ Lenvpiwg Agencies!

Letters Support Kit Morris

Dear Editor:

After hearing about and reading several articles on Davidson’s impending withdrawal from the Southern Conference, I am writing to stick up for and support Kit Morris, Davidson’s Athletic Director. The decision to leave the Southern Conference was made by the faculty, administration, and board of this fine institution working together for the good of the school. It seems to me that Mr. Morris is doing a remarkable job guiding Davidson through a very difficult time. Is it his fault that the school is too small and has academic standards too high to support Division One football? What really appalls me is how little the alumni who criticize Kit seem to know about the situation. Doesn’t Davidson teach people to know something before griping? Maybe Davidson does have the academics necessary for big-time football. I am sure Kit Morris is as concerned as anyone with Davidson’s athletic future. They are fortunate to have his very capable and proven leadership.

Richard M. Reid
Assistant Vice President
First Union National Bank

Divestment

Dear Editors:

I read recently in the Davidsonian of the Faculty Senate’s resolution regarding Davidson’s investment in companies that do business with South Africa. I am a tuition-paying parent of a Davidson student, which I believe gives me the standing to comment. If Davidson divests its portfolio of securities of the companies in question, we can expect the return on the $22 million involved to fall because the trustees will be precluded from making the best possible investments. Presumably, Davidson has $22 million invested in these companies because their securities meet the trustees’ risk/return criteria. Each drop in income of one percentage point as the trustees shift investments costs the College $220 thousand. Now, who steps forward to shoulder this burden? I believe that a great many parents would not be thrilled at the idea of relieving the faculty’s ideological tumescence. Because the Faculty Senate wishes that the College make a grand gesture, the faculty should make it and, fortunately, I have just the way. My proposal is to modify the resolution to read that any decline in income occasioned by the change in policy is to be taken from the salaries of the faculty who vote for the modified resolution. This will make everybody happy. Faculty members will have made their gesture, at their own expense, thereby satisfying the Kantian imperative. The trustees can be assured that their new investment policy does not cost those who have reservations about it. And alumni, alumnae, and those who now pay tuition and fees will not be asked to subsidize the good intentions of others.

Another suggestion that does not require action by the Senate or College: supporters of the current resolution and their spouses could donate all their South-African dug diamonds and gold to charity, say to the African National Congress. Inasmuch as South Africa provides most of what some of us call the Free World’s supply of diamonds and gold, it is likely that many faculty members and their spouses will have to give up some of either. I would not feel as I do were the resolution less selective, not a bill of attainder.

See LETTERS, p. 11