Friday, March 25, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Beyond Davidson  
U.S. sends troops to Honduras; four indicted for roles in Iran-contra affair  
By KATHERINE PRICE  

News headlines March 16-22:  

Around the World — The U.S. sent 3,200 soldiers to Honduras, on an “emergency employment” exercise. The U.S. troops were sent to Palmerola Air Force Base, the focus of U.S. military operations in Honduras. The U.S. troops were sent as a “measured response” to allegations that Nicaraguan Sandinista forces had crossed over the border into Honduras after clashes with opposition contra forces. Although the border conflict now appears to be subsiding, and Sandinista troops reportedly withdrew from Honduras on Monday, controversy continues over the presence of U.S. troops in the region. Also on Monday, the Sandinistas and the contra rebels agreed to an informal truce, in efforts to negotiate a cease-fire. In a matter unrelated to the regional hostilities, a U.S. helicopter crashed in Honduras on Monday, away from the fighting, resulting in the deaths of 10 Americans.  

Violence in Northern Ireland led to the deaths of two British soldiers on Saturday, at the funeral of a member of the Irish Republican Army. In a previous exchange of violence between the IRA and British forces, three people were killed and 68 injured, as participants at a funeral service for IRA soldiers rioted last Wednesday. These recent deaths raise the total of deaths in Northern Ireland to ten since the March 6 shooting of three IRA guerrillas by British forces.  

After weeks of pressure to resign from the Panamanian opposition and the U.S., Defense Minister General Manuel Noriega announced that he would step down from office if all Panamanian political parties would agree to engage in a “national dialogue.” The U.S. has been urging Noriega to accept Spain’s offer of asylum, and denounced Noriega’s new offer.  

Another Palestinian was killed on Monday by Israeli troops, bringing the total of Palestinian deaths in Israeli-occupied territories to over 100 since early December. Israeli Prime Minister Shamir recently denounced U.S. Secretary of State Shultz’s proposed Middle East peace plan, although regional violence continues to escalate.  

Iraq reportedly attacked an Iranian tanker on Saturday, resulting in the deaths of 54 crew members. Iraq and Iran have been at war since 1980.  

Across the Nation — Fourteen months of investigation led to the indictments last week of four men involved in the Iran-contra affair. Former White House aide Oliver North, former national security adviser John Poindexter, retired Air Force Major General Richard Secord, and businessman Albert Hakim were indicted for a total of 23 counts, stemming from deliberately misleading Congress to accepting government funds illegally. The Iran-contra scandal involved the sale of weapons to Iran, and the diversion of profits to aid the contra rebel forces in their war against the ruling Nicaraguan Sandinista government.  

Vice President George Bush continued his string of Republican primary victories by winning in Puerto Rico. Bush commands a considerable lead in the Republican race. In the Democratic contest, Jesse Jackson emerged as the winner in Puerto Rico. Michael Dukakis holds the lead in delegates won for the Democrats at this point.  

SGA Weekend will offer students a chance to show Davidson to seventy-one “prospectives”  
By SUSAN PEARSALL  

Beginning Thursday afternoon, prospective members of the class of ’92 will be arriving on Davidson’s campus, preparing for their first weekend at college. They will be participants in the annual Student Government Association Weekend, an event sponsored by the SGA and the Admissions Office. According to coordinator Sheryl Aikman (an admissions counselor), the weekend is an excellent “recruitment tool,” because the students invited are “highly qualified applicants [whom] we’d like to see at Davidson.” Also included in the guest list are Early Decision acceptees who live relatively close to the school and candidates for the Martin and NCNB Scholarships.  

Seventy-one students are expected to participate this year, staying in freshman dorms Thursday and Friday nights “in order to find out what it’s like on a freshman hall,” according to sophomore senator and SGA Weekend co-chairman Chip Allen. The other organizers of the event are junior Susie Grant, senior Anna Erwin and members of the twelve-odd committees which took care of the details.  

“Having to sustain these people for the weekend is a complicated task,” explains Allen, who feels that the committees and co-chairmen have done a fine job this year finding housing for the students, contacting prospective participants, planning activities, and performing the many other important tasks necessary to ensure the project’s success.  

Upon arrival at Davidson, the students will settle into their assigned rooms before their first scheduled activity, the Freshman.  

THEFTS, from page 2  

Two officers who had spotted them breaking another car window March 13. One of the boys was carrying one of the portable radios taken from the cars previously broken into. After questioning, the two admitted that they were also responsible for the hatchback break-ins. It was at this time that they named a 20-year-old as their accomplice.  

In a separate event, two Davidson College students were stopped at the Pantry Quick Stop in Cornelius Saturday, March 19.After police officers saw them driving abnormally, the driver was charged with reckless driving and was taken to the Mecklenburg County jail. The passenger was brought back to campus. Both boys are 19 years old. According to Hughes, the driver was fortunate to be charged with reckless driving rather than driving under the influence.

A case of license perjury occurred on March 14 also at the Pantry Quick Stop when a 20-year-old student attempted to use a false driver’s license. He had used a 21-year-old friend’s birth certificate and vehicle registration to obtain a false North Carolina driver’s license in Mooresville. The student was discovered at the Pantry when he was asked to give his address. He gave his post office box number instead of the address on the license and was unable to cite the latter. Hughes stressed that lending a license to a minor is a misdemeanor and is punishable by revoking the license for a year. “Any use of a fake ID is a misdemeanor for any age. You lose your license regardless of your home state for a year.” Borrowing licenses is beginning to be problematic, said Hughes. In this type of case, both the minor and the adult are charged. Some cases of attempted use of false IDs are handed over to the Dean of Students office for punishment. This option is not mandatory, according to Hughes. “But we will make it so because students are taking advantage of it.”

$13,596, from p.1

Next year’s fees, the highest increase occurs in room charges. Room will be 19.6 percent higher than the present cost in order to cover the costs of dorm improvements such as air-conditioning, and to pay the balance on the new dorms. The room fee will also include a new telephone service required of all students.

Orientation version of a “People Hunt,” designed to help them get to know each other. They will view the Thursday evening Pop Film, and may attend a Patterson Court party. Friday morning, prospectives will attend classes. That will be followed by an alumni presentation, after which they will eat lunch on the Court. Prospectives will be “special guests” at an FAC, hear a folk band—Tuin—in the College Union, and then attend a banquet in the evening. Following a brunch on Saturday, the prospectives will depart.

SGA Weekend, according to Aikman, is “a great opportunity for [applicants] to see what the other students in their class are like, as well as what we’re looking for in this year’s freshman class. It’s a chance for us to show off the college.” She adds that those who the SGA has invited “are folks who would be a real asset to the Davidson community.” The social events are designed, therefore, to give potential freshmen a real feel for the college’s social life and a chance to meet their possible classmates. Allen states, “I think that the weekend will go well. We’ve made a few good changes this year, and I think that it will be a great success.”

GOULD, from p.1

There is not enough time for the accumulation of much in the way of deep genetic differences.” Hence the “cryptic” title of his lecture. Gould defined history as “that enormously complex attempt to understand individual events that would never happen exactly the same way twice.” Human equality was a historic event contingent on other historic events. Stressed Gould, “It just happens to be a fact of history, that’s the way it worked out.” To clarify his point, Gould noted several literary works based on a similar concept: Kingdom Lost, Gallopogus, Tommyknockers, Back to the Future, and It’s a Wonderful Life. “The particular paths of history are so contingent, so dependent upon each of hundreds of thousands of antecedent events breaking in the right way, any one of which had it occurred in a slightly different way might have caused a streak to veer into another channel, that what happens is so massively improbable that it becomes utterly unpredictable,” Gould stated.

The average genetic difference among the human race turns out to be incredibly small, according to Gould. He quoted a colleague of his to summarize his point. “If, God forbid, the holocaust does occur, and the only survivors are a tribe of people in the New Guinea highlands, we will have preserved 80-85% of all the variations in the species homo sapiens.”

Will significant genetic differences develop in man after a much greater span of time has passed? “It’s most unlikely,” said Gould. “The development of differences demands isolation. Now we are so mobile, people today move all over the world.” He continued with a laugh, “And people, as sexual objects, have this terrible tendency to interbreed wherever they go.”

Harvard professor Stephen Jay Gould inaugurated the Joseph Henry and John MacDonald Wearn Lecture Series, established by the late Dr. Joseph T. Wearn ’13 as a memorial to his brother. The series is intended to bring to Davidson those distinguished in the sciences or those who are exceptional statesmen. The lectures will be held every other year, and for 1990 geneticist Clement Markert of North Carolina State University is scheduled to speak.