Thursday, September 8, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Women’s volleyball defeats Winthrop from 14-3 deficit

By MARY FAITH MOUNT and CHANDLER SHEPPARD

It is 11:30 on a Monday night, and she just got home from a long trip. After five games, she is too tired to do all that reading and studying for tomorrow’s classes. She made time for that before leaving at 4:00 for her away volleyball game. Yes, this is the hectic schedule of a dedicated Davidson volleyball player.

This devotion paid off Monday, September 5, as the volleyball team defeated Winthrop College in a best-of-five-games match. After being down 14-2 in the third game, the team came back to win the game 16-14. The final match score was 15-3, 8-15, 16-14, 12-15, 15-12.

Leading the Wildcats were sophomores Molly Graver and Ellen Ott, senior Maria Douglas, junior Tami Beckham, and freshman Holt Hathaway.

The team’s optimism is sparked largely by the zeal of the freshman players. Senior Maria Douglas, team captain, comments, “The freshmen give us intensity that we lacked last year. They’re young. They’re hungry. They want to win and it’s kind of contagious.”

A four-year player, Douglas has seen the sport go from a club sport to facing tough Southern Conference opponents the last two years. The team has won only ten games in the last two years, but without the Southern Conference schedule this year, with the energy of the freshmen, the team is looking to a bright future.

This weekend the Wildcats will face teams from East Carolina, UNC-Chapel Hill, and UNC-Wilmington at a tournament in Chapel Hill. Then on Tuesday, they will travel to Greensboro to take on Guilford College. The home opener will consist of a three-game round-robin with Augusta College (GA) and Winthrop, beginning at 4:30.

Rebecca Hawkins, in her second year as the Davidson coach, encourages everyone to come out and support the Wildcats. According to Hawkins, “Winthrop will be looking for revenge.”

Soccer: Davidson 1, Richmond 1; Davidson 3, Winthrop 0.

Field Hockey: Davidson 1, Pfeiffer 0

Trivia:

When did the Davidson Wildcats last win a football season opener?

From what city did the Phoenix Cardinals move?

By ROBERT GRUBB and CHARLES SMITH

Scoreboard

Football: Davidson 16, Presbyterian 14

Davidson 4, Western Kentucky 2; Davidson 3, Memphis State 5; Davidson 3, Winthrop 0.

Volleyball roster:

Virginia Edington, Fr., Mobile, AL  
Holt Hathaway, Fr., Charlotte, NC  
Christy Knight, Fr., Charlotte, NC  
Tami Beckham, Jr., Fayetteville, NC  
Lavetta Dawkins, Sr., Charlotte, NC  
Maria Douglas, Sr., N. Charleston, SC  
Molly Graver, So., Overland Park, KS  
Ellen Ott, So., Evansville, IN  
Michelle Plauche, Fr., Evanston, IL  
Catherine Robb, Fr., Raleigh, NC  
Peggy Tietgen, Jr., Honeoye Falls, NY

Additionally, Kuykendall looks with optimism on the completion of the sports facility. He indicated that new sports may have an opportunity to begin (e.g. swimming), as well as pointing out the potential for better intramural or intercollegiate facilities.

Nevertheless, he anticipates “some fairly serious and extended conversation within the campus” about athletic policy. Kuykendall’s charge to the Davidson community is “to take seriously the tradition of the college and to weigh things in the balance in making a successful judgment.”

It is the task of these “Around the Horn” interviews to facilitate these judgments by airing as many views as possible on the subject.

[NOTE: The exclusion of the faculty in last week’s column was an oversight, not intended to offend any members of that particular aspect of the campus. Hopefully, faculty interests will be addressed in future columns. The author/editor regrets any discomfort caused faculty members by their omission.]

EMERGENCY!

Call

Davidson Emergency Rescue Service

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Service is a student organization operating 24 hours per day, every day during the school year. We are staffed and operated by state-certified Emergency Medical Technicians. No emergency is too big or small.