Rusk Scholars: “America is fun, interesting, funky, and generally quite a riot”

By MARIA DOUGLAS

Springtime at Davidson College is characterized by singing birds, bathers at the lake campus, and the Rusk Scholars. For the eleventh year, three men and three women from St. Paul’s School in London have taken part of their year off between high school and college to attend Davidson. The six of them—James Harding, Thomas Marsden, Michael Helfgott, Isabel deMay, Rachael Shaw, and Victoria Fathers—recently sat around a table in the Union cafe eating popcorn, “sweeties” (candy), and smoking “fags” (cigarettes), discussing just what brought them here, what they liked about Davidson, and what they found bizarre.

The opportunity to come to America and go to school topped the list for most of them. “I wanted to go to America. I knew it would be fun, interesting, funky, and generally quite a riot,” said Harding. For Fathers, doing “arty things” appealed to her. She had been studying engineering since she was 15 and felt she needed a change before getting back into her major. Marsden lived in Russia for two years and had never been to America. He wanted the experience of living in both Super Power countries. So far, Marsden has found that “the way they live and view things is very similar.” The people there [in the Soviet Union] are very open and friendly, much like the Americans are, he said.

The scholars find Davidson the seat of friendliness. They marvel at how gregarious and outgoing Davidson students are. Besides the people, most agreed they liked the size of Davidson and its location in the southern United States. Coming to Davidson meant to her, as well as the others, learning yet relaxing, not being stressed, a chance to meet people in a structured environment, and most of all, having fun.

Confidential Health: Can you pass the awareness test in Herpes 101?

The Rusk scholars (back row, from left to right): Isabel deMay, Michael Helfgott, Tom Marsden, Victoria Fathers; (foreground, from left to right): Rachael Shaw, James Harding.

The scholars’ experience hasn’t been without confrontations with the unfamiliar or bizarre. All agreed that alcohol and its importance is the most strange. According to them, people do not drink as much in England. The drinking age is 18, which may account for the lack of interest in drinking. The beer here has not changed Harding’s habits: “I’m not impressed by the beer,” he said. Also of the Davidson social life, the scholars have noticed that people are classed by their fraternity. Harding described the fraternity scene as “very freaky.”

Shaw found it strange that Americans think nothing of driving long distances. “I’ve been to Florida in the two weeks since I’ve been here,” she said. “I’m amazed at the popularity of basketball,” admitted Helfgott. Added deMay, “The language is strange. And they [students] are all obsessed with grades.”

Perhaps the most bizarre observation was made by Shaw. “Cow-tipping is the most bizarre thing I’ve heard of,” said Shaw as she laughed hysterically. This activity involves sneaking up on a sleeping cow and tipping it over. On a more serious note, Helfgott observed that the atmosphere on campus is “a lot less political.” According to him, in England one is considered trendy if one is strongly opinionated—radical, in fact. Finally, what’s considered to be “cool” in England is a far cry from what Americans consider “cool.” According to the experts on cool and trendy, Harding and Marsden, Americans consider it cool if you are sporty and know everyone. Not so in England. “To be cool, you must smoke, be streetwise, hit clubs, listen to trendy music, wear fashionable clothes, and be aloof,” said Harding and Marsden. Trendy music includes Eric B. and Rakim, anything funk, soul, and Motown.

During their stay, the scholars will take two classes and attend a series of lectures developed by Paula Moore, the Assistant Dean of Students. The series is entitled “A View From a Window in America.” Various Davidson professors and townspeople will lecture on aspects of American life to the Rusk Scholars as well as to the international students. A Tea and Crumpets welcoming party for the scholars was held March 30 at 4 p.m. in Vail Commons.

Herpes. Some of us joke about it. Some of us have it. For all of the nervous laughter and anxiety, it is amazing how little many of us really...know about genital herpes. Here’s your chance to pass Genital Herpes 101. Take the test below and grade yourself. You could even ace the course.

1. Which of the symptoms listed below are associated with genital herpes?
   (a) genital pain and itching
   (b) blisters or lesions in the genital area
   (c) fever
   (d) muscular pain or headache
   (e) a and b only
   (f) all of the above

2. How long after intimate contact with an infected and contagious partner can the first manifestation of herpes occur?
   (a) four days
   (b) a week
   (c) a month
   (d) varies greatly from person to person
   (e) six months

3. Herpes outbreaks tend to recur. On average, a person with herpes can expect a new outbreak:
   (a) every two to three months
   (b) several times a year
   (c) once a month
   (d) once a year

4. The best way to find out if you actually have herpes is:
   (a) examine yourself for symptoms
   (b) go promptly to a physician for testing
   (c) wait and see if suspicious symptoms go away on their own

5. True or false: There is no effective treatment for herpes.
   (a) true
   (b) false

6. Herpes poses special problems for women because it:
   (a) causes sterility in women
   (b) can be life-threatening to an infant at birth
   (c) can predispose a woman to cervical cancer
   (d) causes extended menstrual cycles
   (e) b and c
   (f) none of the above

7. Genital herpes is contracted by:
   (a) sexual contact with anyone who has had a herpes outbreak in the past
   (b) sexual contact with someone who is experiencing an active outbreak
   (c) exposure to toilet seats, towels, or swimming pools with which a person with active herpes lesions has had contact
   (d) all of the above

8. True or false: Using a condom guarantees that a man will neither transmit nor contract the disease.
   (a) true
   (b) false

9. What factors may play a role in triggering recurrent episodes of genital herpes?
   (a) menstruation
   (b) emotional stress
   (c) lack of sleep
   (d) tight jeans
   (e) all of the above

10. True or false: Having genital herpes makes a person more vulnerable to other sexually transmitted diseases such as syphilis, gonorrhea, and AIDS.
    (a) true
    (b) false

Answers:
1. (f) Pain, itching, lesions, fever, muscular aches, and headaches are all symptoms associated with the initial outbreak of the disease. Not everyone who has genital herpes experiences all of these symptoms. Recurrences are usually less severe and rarely involve the flu-like symptoms, e.g., muscular aches and fever, of an initial outbreak.

2. (d) The incubation period varies greatly from one individual to another. Usually, the first outbreak occurs within three weeks after sexual contact with an infected and contagious partner. However, in some cases, it can take as long as three years before symptoms appear.

3. (b) The average herpes patient will experience a recurrence three or four times a year. But here, too, there is a great deal of individual variation. Some people, apparently, never have a second outbreak, while others have recurrences so frequently that they may think of their herpes lesions as a chronic condition.

4. (b) Testing by a physician is the only way to get an accurate diagnosis of genital herpes. Self-examination is the way most people come to suspect they have the disease; however, there is a possibility that they may mistake some other skin condition for herpes lesions. Herpes lesions will eventually disappear on their own, but the herpes virus remains in the body, dormant until something triggers a new outbreak. Physicians have reliable laboratory tests that can determine if the condition is indeed genital herpes.

5. (b) Genital herpes is treatable, although not curable. There is a prescription drug available called Zovirax (acyclovir). A doctor can advise on the role of this drug in the treatment of genital herpes as well as offer self-help measures and counseling to help control the disease.

6. (e) There is some indication that having herpes might predispose a woman to developing cervical cancer. Fortunately, cancer of the cervix is easily detected in its very early stages by a pap smear. It is recommended that women with genital herpes have a pap smear every six months. Additionally, if active lesions are present in the birth canal at the time of birth, the newborn may become seriously ill. If you have herpes, it is important to notify your obstetrician so that you may be monitored during the final stages of pregnancy.

See HEALTH, page 7