SHORTAGE, from p. 1

no new word processing equipment in two years.

About twenty-six word processors are currently in use by students in the Computer Center, eleven in the library, and two in the basement of Chambers. Two printers are undergoing repairs, and it is uncertain when Toshiba will send them back.

Computer Center employee Jeff Sawvel believes that the problem could be eased if the school would allow students to write papers on the VAX System, which has been reserved exclusively for statistical work. “They should have left word-processing on the VAX until they could get more PCs, because we just don’t have enough PCs,” he says. He estimates that the use of the VAX system would increase the number of available terminals by about twenty or twenty-five.

However, Casey feels that since large, centralized systems such as the VAX are not good for word-processing, the system should be reserved for statistical data.

“The college-wide policy in the five-year plan for computing states that the machines should all be kept available for what they do best,” he adds.

Another student employee, Susan Swift, says that the Center is doing what it can to make computers available to the student body.

“It hasn’t been that bad lately because we’ve been opening earlier and staying open later,” she says.

However, she agrees that there have been problems at “prime-time computer hours” -- from 8:00-11:00 at night.

THEFTS, from p. 1

In order to deter potential shoplifters, two mirrors have been installed overlooking the coolers and the main section of the store. As one individual noted, however, the mirrors are not very effective because the cashier is unable to see them from the register.

Café staff have discussed installing video cameras as a further measure if shoplifting becomes enough of a problem, but Stone comments that “We’re hoping it won’t have to come to that.”

Stone emphasized that “it’s not a large problem and it’s not necessarily the students who are doing it.”

“We have a lot of outside people who come in here as well, especially at night and on weekends,” Stone said. The staff has not been able to tell exactly when the thefts are taking place.

Stone went on to say that “Any time you have a store of this nature you’re going to have a problem like this, on any campus. But it’s a shame when you don’t feel like you can trust a student who’s supposed to be bound by the Honor Code.”

Although no prices have increased as a result of shoplifting, the costs will have to be shifted onto the students if the problem worsens.

In an unrelated incident, the disappearance of a class ring from a display in the Student Store has been described as a mystery by Student Store Manager Chloe Myers, who commented that “We’re not really sure what happened.”

Myers said that she “can’t say for certain that it was stolen, but we don’t think it was lost.”

If it was stolen, she added, “I really feel like the ring’s disappearance is an isolated incident--I’ve only seen this problem once in the ten years I’ve been here.”

Myers commented that “While we’re not naive enough to believe that all’s rosy in the world,” the staff has faith in the Honor Code and that she herself discovered her missing pocketbook five hours after misplacing it, exactly where she left it--in the TV Lounge.

“The Right Job, there’s nothing like it!”

“When you're confident that you're working where God wants you, you've got the right job. Intercristo helped find the right job for me in a Christian organization. I highly recommend Intercristo to others.”

Contact Intercristo for work opportunities in Christian organizations. Career, short-term and summer positions for professionals, tradespeople and students are available in the U.S. and overseas.

Call Toll-Free (800) 426-1342
AK, HI, WA or Canada (206) 546-7330
Or return the coupon below.

BILL BROWN, Director of Finance, World Concern

Intercristo
The Christian Career Specialists
P.O. Box 33487 Seattle, WA 98133

Please send me information on finding the “right job!”
Name
Address
City

Publication

Here's Humphrey Yogurt for Zack's!

HERE'S LICKIN’ AT YOU, KID!

ZACK'S FAMOUS FROZEN YOGURT. THIS COULD BE THE START OF A BEAUTIFUL FRIENDSHIP!

Light Lunch served M-F 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Cakes and pies made to order.

Zack’s Famous Frozen Yogurt
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
I-77 at Hwy 73 (behind Wendy’s)
892-9873

Study Abroad

ITHACA COLLEGE LONDON CENTER

SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM

Visits to the theatre, museums, galleries,
ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT
BRITISH FACULTY
COURSES in literature, history, art, drama, music, sociology, psychology, communications, and politics are offered.

First Union loan has a lot of ways to give you credit while pursuing a college degree.

New Banking Power For You.
DAVIDSON
First Union National Bank
Banking Offices Statewide Member FDIC

For more information, contact the Office of International Programs, Muller 218, Ithaca College, Ithaca, NY 14850