Get Nortonized! page 4

~~

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 11

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, November 18, 1988

Scales calls for social change

Former Communist Party member claims U.S.’ ideals are “bent and twisted”

By GARY WHEELER

Former Communist Party member Junius Scales, author of Cause at Heart and the only American ever to have been imprisoned for his political beliefs, spoke on the importance of history on his election day visit to Davidson. Scales says it is time for the U.S. to look at history, to learn from its mistakes, and “to chart a course for the future.”

Scales points to the Declaration of Independence as representative of American ideals which have been “bent and twisted.” Our nation’s leaders claimed “that ‘all men are created equal,’ yet we have left the Indians a degraded relic of the past,” kept women from voting for two-thirds of our history, and caused blacks to suffer through the institution of slavery.

Disgust over the bending and twisting of ideals is what drove Scales to join, and, ironically, leave, the Communist Party.

On Tuesday, November 15 at 3:00 a.m., senior Michael Makonnen of Atlanta, Ga., died of cancer and complications from radiation treatment. The funeral was held today in Atlanta. A memorial service will be conducted at Davidson College’s Piedmont Presbyterian Church on Sunday at 2 p.m.

Senior Michael Makonnen dies of cancer

Makonnen has battled cancer ever since he was diagnosed in October 1987. In November 1987, doctors told Michael that he had four to six months to live. His fight to stay alive and to remain active and to give of himself became a symbol of courage and determination to the wide variety of people whose lives he touched.

His disease caused him a great deal of pain, and required that he undergo radiation therapy and several painful operations.

In spite of his pain and weakness, Mi-

Senior Lavetta Dawkins (center) puts one up and over against UNCG. Teammates from left are sophomore Ellen Ott and freshman Holt Hathaway. The Wildcats concluded their season with a victory, bringing their final record to 27 and 14. Photo by Bill Hartman

ESSX phone system updated

By MARGARET CARROLL

As of Monday, November 14, several improvements have been made to the Southernet ESSX telephone system. These improvements include operator services, automatic callback, and additional long distance lines.

The addition of operator services allows students to make credit card calls with phone company calling cards. To charge calls to a phone card, students should dial 9, wait for a dial tone, then dial 0, the area code and number. At the sound of the tone, enter the phone calling card number. Students using Visa, Mastercard, or American Express should wait for an operator.

With the automatic callback feature, students can program their phones to keep

Scales was attracted by the party’s ideas of equality, brotherhood, and peace. The Communist Party, however, had “a moral center about as substantial as jello,” and Scales left the party when it began to undercut the progress that it had made.

Scales said that the U.S. has made some progress in civil rights but that ending real discrimination is “very much unfinished business.” Scales cited Jesse Jackson’s successful campaign as one that addressed “real issues . . . and provided a positive ray of light for the future.”

Scales feels that too much emphasis is placed on defense, a “euphemism for arms,” and not enough attention is given to domestic issues. He claims that we need to take Martin Luther King’s advice to stop policing the world and “get our own house

See SCALES, page 2

that he had four to six months to live. His fight to stay alive and to remain active and to give of himself became a symbol of courage and determination to the wide variety of people whose lives he touched.

His disease caused him a great deal of pain, and required that he undergo radiation therapy and several painful operations.

In spite of his pain and weakness, Mi-