Monday, December 5, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students relieve major blues at Center for Special Studies

By TOBY TRUOG

WANTED: Bright, motivated students who do not find solace in the curriculum at Davidson College. Come sell the group of participating faculty on your own idea of a major. The Center for Special Studies can satisfy you because you design your own program.

Since 1970 the Center for Special Studies has offered an exciting alternative to the traditional liberal arts curricular major. Eighteen years ago the Center was actually a college within a college. It was considered the Honors College, a separate entity from the college proper.

“The Center now exists as a unique academic structure, offering many interdisciplinary courses,” said Director John Brockway; and courses are not restricted to Center majors. Terrorism in Peru, “the midwestern mind,” rural Indian health care, and the biology and conservation of sea turtles at Sri Lanka are examples of the most recent majors. Six seniors are currently pursuing self-designed studies, and a number of junior applications are pending.

“A student can pull together a number of courses to form a concentration of sorts, thus not limiting his Center major to one area of curriculum,” said Brockway.

The goal of the Center is to give Davidson students a choice. “We are here to support the student and his ability to design his own major.” Brockway energizes undecided students, showing them that the College has much more to offer than is readily visible. The Center often helps students to reach untapped potential in fields that interest them most. The Dean Rusk and Sloan Technical programs work in conjunction with the Center to further maximize opportunities.

In order to design a major, a student fills out an application with an outline of proposed studies. Before the Center accepts an application, it verifies resources the student used and has a faculty committee review the student’s plan. To complete a Center major, a student must write a thesis. “The senior thesis is the culmination of all the student’s work,” said Brockway.

If motivation is in your back pocket and an out-of-the-ordinary major of your own genius is bouncing around in your head, then the Center for Special Studies is worth checking into.

CATALOGUES, from page 6

Specialist Bill Ligas said that Spiegle has been aware of the college market for quite a while. “It’s a different kind of effort to attract students. We want to attract them when they’re beginning to make purchases, because if we do a good job with service and they get used to taking advantage of mail order, they might be customers for life.”

Whether they order from them or not, students enjoy finding favorite catalogues in their p.o. boxes each month. Perusing the latest fashions has become a popular way to take a break from studying. “My whole life seems to revolve around the campus,” Bastian commented, “that’s why I was so excited when I got my first catalogue the other day. The prospect of getting new clothes is always exciting.”

EMERGENCY!

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Service is a student organization operating 24 hours per day, every day during the school year. We are staffed and operated by state-certified Emergency Medical Technicians. No emergency is too big or small!