> Monday, April 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Hijackers kill two, head from Larnaca to Algiers; Soviets to pull troops out of Afghanistan, end nine-year conflict

By MUADI MUKENGE

Headlining the News April 9-15

Across the World: A hijacked Kuwaiti jet flew from Larnaca airport in Cyprus to Algiers, Algeria Wednesday in the latest development of an eleven-day ordeal. The Boeing 747 was intercepted April 5 on its way from Bangkok, Thailand to Kuwait. The six to eight hijackers are believed to be Shiite Moslems. They are demanding that Kuwait release 17 “pro-Iranian” terrorists who were convicted December 1983 for bombings on that island. Approximately 100 passengers were originally on board the plane—57 were released in Mashhad, Iran on the 5th; 12 were released the 13th as a condition for the plane to continue to Algiers. Three members of the Kuwaiti ruling family were reported to still be on board the plane by one of the freed hostages. Two Kuwaiti hostages were killed on Sunday and Monday; their bodies were dumped from the plane in Larnaca. The PLO has attempted to negotiate terms of release for the hostages along with the Kuwaiti and Algerian governments.

A U.S. Navy woman was one of five persons killed by a car bomb set off Thursday in front of a club for U.S. military personnel in Naples, Italy. The bombing occurred around 2 p.m. EDT. There were approximately 60 people in the club. Most escaped injury because they were in the basement of the building. The bomb was in a parked car and the explosion caused several other cars to catch fire. Four people on the street were instantly killed; several other pedestrians were injured. The other sailors killed were Italian. American naval presence in Naples is large, as it is the headquarters for NATO’s southern command as well as a fleet station. No group has claimed responsibility for the crime.

Across the Nation: Democratic candidates held one of a series of presidential debates April 12th at New York’s Madison Square Garden in preparation for the vital April 19th New York primary. Albert Gore Jr. of Tennessee, Massachusetts governor Michael Dukakis, and the Reverend Jesse Jackson are each vying for a majority of the state’s 255 delegates in a primary which could very much decide the frontrunner for the Democratic ticket nomination. The 90-minute debate included discussion on the United States’ policy towards the Middle East—especially Israel—welfare, education and AIDS.

The United States is optimistic that an agreement by Soviets to withdraw from Afghanistan will be longstanding. The document was signed on the 14th by the Soviets in Geneva in an end to a nine-year war. Secretary of State George Schultz represented the U.S. at the signing. The withdrawal is the first for the Soviets from a territory which it has occupied. 150,000 troops are to leave beginning May 15. Although the signing is perceived as a step towards peace in Afghanistan, both the U.S. and the Soviet Union have stated that they will continue to supply arms to the factions.

New Tax Law Aid

To help you understand the new tax law, the IRS has two new publications. Publication 920 explains changes affecting individuals and Publication 921 explains changes affecting businesses. Both are free. Ask for one at any IRS office or call the IRS Tax Forms number in your phone book.

Call 1-800-SAVE-BOB.

THE SEARCH FOR BOB CONTINUES, SUSPECTS ARE QUESTIONED

Give Me A Break! I’ve Got BETTER THINGS To Do, LIKE GETTING DRUNK

When We Heard The News About Bob, Our Buzz Was Stomped Into Two Dimensions! It Was The Sounder Of All Tameos!

Of Course He Didn’t Do It! He Was His Biggest Fan! And So Were The OTHER TRUSTEES!

Bos Was Knew Any Way We're Got The Verrest Carrot We

When We Find Out We Did It, No Best Ve THAT Pon Curiosity, pieenbens—In The EXACT Same Way...

The Court Administrators ALL Questioned Answered

Dick the Clixe Was arrested briefly but released when it was realized that no one really took him seriously.

But Not Far Away, IN A Secret Corner Of The New Gym

Lies our Hero, WHAT Is In Store For Him?!