Inside Art, page 7

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 5

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, September 30, 1988

Terry holds forum on weekday parties

By GARY WHEELER
A forum on “Parties at Davidson” was held in the Art Gallery on September 20. Dean of Students Will Terry opened by expressing his concerns about “the proliferation and intensification of weekday parties.”

More particularly, Terry is disturbed at the number of fraternity-sponsored parties spreading to the residence halls.

After Terry’s introductory remarks, the topic was opened for discussion. Party issues discussed were:
- Whether the amount of weekday parties has increased with the semester system.
- The effect of weekday parties on absences this year.
- How much parties take away from other activities on campus.
- What implications administrative restrictions on weekday parties might have.

Patterson Court parties are registered in the Dean of Students Office, and residence hall and perimeter house parties are to be registered in the Residence Life Office. So far this year there have been nine weekday evening parties registered by fraternities on Patterson Court. Residence halls and perimeter housing have hosted ten week-night parties.

This far into school last year, there were nine week-night parties registered through the Residence Life Office. (The Patterson Court party figures from 1987 are not available).

The issue of whether or not absences have increased is not clear, because professors are not required to take attendance.

Senior John Sellers, who admits to attending “a lot” of week-night parties in the past, expresses his regret on “passing up other weekday events; not so much studying, but missing out on other things like good speakers and performances... I just want the freshmen to know that there will always be weekday parties, but you don’t always have the chance to see something like Macbeth on campus.”

Sophomore Alan Rosselot does not see a need for college restrictions on week-night parties, saying that it would “create a controversy that doesn’t need to happen. College students are mature enough to know when to study and when to party. People are going to party no matter what, whether it’s on the Court or in their rooms.”

By TRIPP HELMS
Director of Auxiliary Services Carleton Pritchard hopes that the new Campus Network computer system will “broaden the use of the student meal card” and “expand services presently available to the student body.”

The system, installed last week, is now operating in the Vail Commons and the Union Cafe. Students who subscribe to the college dining service have been issued a temporary “CAT card” that will allow access to the new system.

Each card has a magnetic strip on the back side. The strip is encoded with the student’s name, identification number, and meal plan (10, 14, or 19 meals per week).

When a student enters the Commons or purchases a meal in the Cafe, a dining services employee places the student’s card in the computerized card reader. The reader then sends the information encoded on the strip over phone lines to the mainframe computer located on the west balcony of the Commons. The amount of meals left for the week along with the student’s identification number is sent back to the card reader where it is displayed on the digital terminal screen.

The system’s capabilities are not limited to keeping track of the student meal plan. According to Pritchard, the system will be implemented in several other student services across campus; hence the name “Campus Network.”

Pritchard plans to install the system in the student store and the library and explore uses for the new cards in the Athletics Complex.

By November 1, all students will have the option of depositing a sum of money into a CAT card account.

Students will then be able to use the card just as they would money in all services outfitted with the system. Meals in the Commons, food items in the Cafe, books and supplies in the student store, and laundry bills could all be paid for using the card.

This creates a new option for student meal plans. Instead of purchasing a 10, 14, or 19-meal plan, students can deposit money to use for meal purchases. Pritchard expects most students to stay with the traditional meal plans because it “makes it easier to budget their money week-by-week.”

Most students react positively to the new system. Junior Bruce Newsome likes the fact that “it

See PRITCHARD, page 2

Non-Profit Organization
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, N.C. 28036