Friday, November 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Davidson faces a very serious problem with its present curricular situation,” the authors of the administrative survey report had written
in 1952. “It has operated under the same basic assumptions and general outline for many years.” Indeed it had, and
continued to. Davidson’s curriculum was the core curriculum typical of the period, a system of elective courses for upperclassmen built
upon a base of required courses. Whether the year was 1932 or 1952 or even 1962 made little difference; every
Davidson student was required to take two years of English, two of Bible, and two of a foreign language, as
well as two courses in mathematics, a year of history, and eight hours of a natural science.

The early sixties had seen various movements toward change in academic policy. The cut system and its meticulous record-keeping went
out the window in 1962 in favor of unlimited absences to a point not exceeding twenty-five percent of the scheduled
meetings of a class. Advanced placement became an accepted procedure in 1963. The next year the administration began appointing department
chairmen for specified periods, replacing the old system by which departments had chosen their own chairmen, often without notifying the
dean at all. The program of foreign study was a major innovation, as was the Humanities Program approved by the
faculty in 1961. Despite these changes, though, Davidson’s curriculum in 1965 was still strongly reminiscent of 1900. And the middle
of the sixties was no time for reminiscing; it was a time for change in higher education all over the
country, and the visiting committee of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools was dismayed to find at Davidson such
apparent contentment with the status quo. Look at some new horizons, urged the committee, do some blue skying.

This was the beginning of Davidson’s Blue Sky Curriculum. A faculty committee under Dean Johnston’s direction began work in April
1966, not patching up something old, but creating a new system of course requirements, of challenge to the particularly able
and mature student. The report of the Blue Sky Committee was adopted unanimously by the faculty on November 14, 1967,
and the trustees approved implementation of the plan at a meeting in December. A freshman entering Davidson in September 1968
would have encountered no specific course requirements except in military science, but would have chosen courses from within four areas
of the curriculum and could have looked forward to taking part in independent study, the Non-Western Program, or the Honors
College which began in the fall of 1970.

RATLAB, from page 5

Unfortunately, this experiment is not proceeding as successfully. The current “batch of rats” have yet to learn the task so
that they can participate in the research.

At the end of the maze experiments, students kill the rats in order to study their brains. This part of
the experiment seems to be the most difficult for the students.

Ramirez, who is a vegetarian, said, “It is unfortunate that we have to use animals, but they do give model
performance.”

Junior biology major Jennifer Payne said, “The sacrifice of a rat is worth it” when you think about the good
the research could do.

Another junior biology major, Chelley Alexander, said, “It is difficult to kill anything that is living. First it is running
over your shoulders and sniffing at your ears and then.... Attached to the animal or not, it is traumatic before,
during and after.”

Mahadevan says that the procedure is painless because of the anesthesia used.

Brain damage can be caused by stroke, mental illness, old age, accidents or other injury to the head or neck,
or may be due to birth defects. Payne stressed the importance of helping to heal brain damage, saying, “It is
the brain that makes the person.”

Harshbarger agrees. “Humans are more important to me than animals. Though if I had to kill a chimpanzee who is
so ‘human,’ I don’t think I could do it.” Like other students in the class, he plans to go to
medical school to continue studying clinical neurology.

“The rats are my buddies,” Payne said. “You wouldn’t believe it, but they have personalities! Even without a mark on
their tails, I would know one from the other. There is one who has a favorite box and will run
across my shoulders and over another rat to make sure he gets it. I have been bitten once, but that
was by a new rat. He must have been scared.”

Alexander likes the rats, too, and thinks they are cute. “We take care of them day after day, working at
least eight hours a week with them. I even have names for them,” she said.

“I will probably be doing this for the rest of my life—I liked it enough to give up my English
major,” said Alexander. “I feel this [research] is ‘real’ and can be applied. Normally one does undergraduate school and then
goes for higher studies and work and then does something worthwhile but I am already doing it! I have a
dear, dear friend who needs medical help for precisely this kind of problem.”

EMERGENCY!

call

Davidson Emergency Rescue Service

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Service is a student organization operating 24 hours per day, every day during the school year.
We are staffed and operated by state-certified Emergency Medical Technicians. No emergency is too big or small.
