Freshman suspended for plagiarism, p.2

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXIX, Number 3
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Monday, April 4, 1988

Students barred from housing lottery
New housing policy excludes some JYAers

By JIM DILLON

Sophomores planning to go on junior year abroad programs are at odds with residence life director Tom Jennings regarding a
housing policy which would bar some of those students from participating in this year’s housing lottery. The policy affects only
those students planning to spend one semester away next year. Those students who will not be at Davidson in the
fall of next year will not be allowed under the policy to reserve a room through the lottery process.

Jennings argues that the residence life office must first commit rooms to students who plan on being at Davidson for
the full year and then deal with those who will be on campus for part of the year. Sophomore Carey
Pickard, who plans to spend the fall semester of next year in London, disagrees with the policy. “Basically, I feel
that the proposed policy discriminates against people going abroad for part of the year,” Pickard said. “While the school is
encouraging people to take advantage of the opportunity of going JYA (junior year abroad), they’ve set up this major roadblock.”

Sophomore Chip Allen, who will spend next fall semester in Vienna, said the lottery is set up to give lottery
numbers in order of seniority, but when students return from JYA programs, they may only take spaces not already reserved
by seniors, juniors, sophomores, and transfer students, with whom they are incompatible, despite the fact that, as juniors, they should
have some seniority.

In the past, such students were able to reserve rooms in the lottery and room selection process but simply gave
up the room for the semester during which they attended the JYA program. Upon returning to Davidson, they received the
space for which they signed up, and the people occupying the spaces were forced to move elsewhere. Such constant room
changing, says Jennings, is the main reason that the new policy was created.

“The purpose of the policy is not to displace students who are going to be here for the whole year—people
who are going to move into rooms and stay in,” Jennings said. “In the past, we’ve put people in rooms
the JYA people have reserved, but when they came back, they had to move. So during the last three weeks
of the term, we’ve had to do all sorts of arranging to find them a space, while the students are
trying to take exams. They often had to give up part of their spring break for moving in. I think
sophomores and transfers really need to have a sense of place. They need control over where they live.”

Jennings adapted the policy somewhat after meeting with a number of students who were concerned about getting a room after
returning from fall JYA programs. Since no rooms at Davidson will be mandatory triples next year, Jennings says students may
volunteer for triples, adding a fall semester JYA.Student as the third roommate to secure a place for that student when
he or she returns. The student may receive another room, but if he is unhappy with the alternatives, he may
resort to the triple. Jennings suggests that students considering spring term JYA programs might be considered as a possible roommate
so that only two roommates of the three will live in the room at any one time. Allen argues that
the policy will nonetheless discourage students from going on JYA programs which last for one semester only. Jennings said he
hopes the policy will not deter students from going abroad, “I don’t know if it'll have that effect. I think
if someone really wants to go JYA, they’ll base their decision on how important that experience is to them, not
on how important housing is when they get back. Basically, we’re balancing two evils. It’s not a perfect answer, but
it’s a better answer than what is happening now,” Jennings said. Jennings said he expects that, due to the Weeks
today. See story, page 6. Senior Charles Tambiah and his friend Ryan the hawk are kicking off Davidson Environmental ties.

College Relations PCC reviews alcohol policy Kuykendall, Terry urge consideration of dry rush By PETER G. MANGONE The Patterson Court
Council held its first meeting with the newly elected officers of the Patterson Court houses on March 23, and in
so doing also began their annual review of the Patterson Court alcohol policy. This year’s PCC members are faced with
making major decisions concerning highly controversial issues on Patterson Court, such as dry rush and legal liability. Although actual discussion
of the alcohol policy did not occur at the meeting on the 23rd, the PCC asked College President John Kuykendall
and Dean of Students Will Terry to present their thoughts on Patterson Court and its present policies. Speaking first, Kuykendall
stated several personal concerns about Patterson Court house officers should understand that if the Patterson Court alcohol policy is not
sound, they, much more than the school, will be in dire legal straits should something go awry. Finally, Kuykendall cited
the recent success of dry rush across the country (approximately one-half of all nationally affiliated fraternities and sororities use it
today) as well as its success at Davidson this year (by Kappa Sigma). Although he emphatically stated he is not
demanding the establishment of a dry rush, he does believe that the PCC should contemplate the possibility of a dry
rush period for the future. Following Kuykendall, Terry voiced several of his own apprehensions about Allen insisted it is very
likely he and others. See HOUSING, page 3. Court’s alcohol policy. After relating See PCC, page 3. might end up
on halls and with roommates.
