The Davidsonian
Friday, January 15, 1988

Wildcat basketball picking up steam
By PHILIP PRESCOTT

The Davidson basketball team performed well against two tough games against teams playing above their level last week. The team
from Wofford, an NAIA school, gave an outstanding effort, leading much of the first half against Davidson at home in
the Johnston Gym. Wofford was led by 6-4 freshman forward, Greg O'Dell, who scored 27 points, 15 in the first
half on five three-pointers. Also scoring in double-digits for Wofford were Job with 12 points and Tomasovich with 10.

Alan Hunter, a 5-10 sophomore starting his second game at point guard in place of Dean Keener, ignited the Wildcats
on offense and defense. His move to point guard allows Derek Rucker to concentrate more on his shooting, and gives
Davidson one of the quickest backcourts in the conference. Rucker and Himes tied for scoring honors with 20 points each,
with Himes also getting 9 rebounds. Maurice Gray had 16 points, and Hunter chipped in with 12.

Davidson was in a nail biter in its game at the Citadel. Citadel led most of the first half and
was leading by 6 points with 2:49 left in the first half, but Davidson cut the deficit to 2, 36-38
at the end of the half.

By Whit Wilks

Several members of the squad received honors as all-conference players. Jim Kelly, Michael Spear, Tracy Hankins, and Mike Friedlander were
all named to the 1st team, while Steve Ott was tapped for the 2nd team. In addition to Soccer update
Davidson tied the score at 44 on a three-pointer by Rucker early in the second half. The game was nip
& tuck the rest of the way until Davidson got its largest lead, 79-73, on two free throws by Rucker.
Citadel fought their way back and tied the score at 80. Then Rucker took the game into his hands and
raced up the court, hitting an off-balance three-pointer with 5 ticks left on the clock.

The rest of the game was marked by controversy, with Coach Randy Nesbit of the Citadel claiming that a Davidson
player had intentionally knocked the ball to mid-court, which would have resulted in a technical foul shot and Citadel gaining
possession of the ball. Instead, a bench technical was called on Coach Nesbit for jumping on the court and protesting
the call. Rucker hit the 2 free throws, making the final score 85-80, and the Citadel protested playing the final
2 seconds.

Rucker dominated the second half, scoring 27 of his 37 total points, making 15 of his 17 total free throws,
and scoring all 4 of his three-pointers in that half. Himes had 22 points and 10 rebounds, with Gray contributing
10 points and Rucker leading the defense with 4 steals. Citadel had very balanced scoring with 5 players in double
digits, Kent scoring 19 points, Nesbit 12, Robert Dalley a 6-6 freshman center from England 12, Ed Conroy 12, and
Johnny Smith scoring 10. The Citadel had good rebounding with Hill and James Stevens both getting 10 boards.

On Wednesday, the Wildcats travelled to Lexington, Va., to take on the V.M.I. Keydets. As the Cats had struggled on
the road, a tough test was sure to ensue. The Keydets gave Davidson a tough test, and then some. The
game was close throughout, with Davidson hanging on to a slim lead for most of the game. Davidson trailed by
2 at one point, but quickly regained the lead on a shot by Maurice Gray. Sophomore Alan Hunter sank two
free throws with five seconds to play to ice the game for Davidson. A Keydet three-pointer at the buzzer made
the final 66-64.

Jeff Himes had a career-high 32 points for the Wildcats. He also yanked down a career-high 15 rebounds and hit
10 of 12 free throws. Derek Rucker was held to a 5 for 16 shooting night, and he scored only
12 points. Sophomore Jay Schmitt also scored in double figures for the Wildcats, contributing 10 points. With the victory, the
Wildcats' third straight, their record improved to 8-5, 2-0 in the Southern Conference.

This week, the Cats face the U-T Chattanooga Mocs at 1:00 in Johnston Gym, a game that will be televised
as the Southern Conference game of the week. Locally, it will be broadcast on Charlotte channel 18. On Monday, the
Western Carolina Catamounts visit Johnston Gym for a 7:30 tilt, and next Saturday the Wildcats travel to Boone to take
on Appalachian State.

Around the Southern Conference
By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

The 1988 Southern Conference season is beginning with some new leaders. Instead of Marshall being on top as they almost
always have been in the past, Tennessee Chattanooga is holding fast to the number one slot with the improved Furman
Paladins following close behind. Here’s a report on Southern Conference basketball as of Wednesday’s games.

Tennessee Chattanooga beat East Tennessee State 88-63 and Appalachian State 76-43 to post an 11-3 record. Furman has won three
out of its last four and boosted its record to 8-3. The Paladins beat The Citadel 91-84, Nebraska 75-74, and
Appalachian State 81-71. Marshall (9-4) has been shaky in its last two outings. All of Skip Henderson’s 31 points were
needed as the Thundering Herd squeaked past Morehead State 89-87. Marshall also suffered a tough road loss to Virginia Tech,
90-74. Last Saturday,Derek Rucker scored a career-high 37 points as Davidson beat The Citadel 85-80. Wednesday night, Jeff Himes scored
32 and Alan Hunter hit two clutch free throws with eleven seconds remaining to lift the Wildcats to a 66-64
win over VMI at Lexington. Davidson is 8-5. Western Carolina has won its last three in a row. Last Thursday,
the 5-4 Catamounts trounced Ferrum 111-89, and on Tuesday got past UNC-Asheville 74-69. Appalachian State has suffered three straight losses,
two of them coming from Furman and Tennessee Chattanooga. The 6-6 Mountaineers were also defeated by UNC-Wilmington 84-71 on January
4. If it’s any consolation to ASU, they are currently leading the Southern Conference in field goal shooting at 49%.
Also struggling are the (3-6) VMI Keydets. They have not won since a January 2nd game against Oral Roberts. Before
losing to Davidson, VMI lost 88-55 to Richmond and 69-59 to William and Mary. East Tennessee State has lost two
of its last three, but it knocked off Furman Monday night 70-67. The Buccaneers are 3-7. After losses to Furman
and Davidson, The Citadel (2-8) lost 84-58 to the College of Charleston, the 13th ranked team in the NAIA. The
Citadel, whose arena is being renovated, is playing all of its 1988 home games on the College of Charleston floor.
Ironically, the Charleston game was a home game for The Citadel. The slate of games on tap for this weekend
are Tennessee Chattanooga at Davidson, Marshall at Appalachian State, Newberry at The Citadel, VMI at East Tennessee State, and Furman
at Western Carolina.

Time for awards: a sports year of farces and spoofs
By ANTHONY MCCARRON

Now that the sports year 1987 is said and done with, it’s time for some special awards. Athletes and coaches,
pro and college, worked hard during the past year and they deserve some accolades for their efforts. Here are the
recipients for 1987 for these special awards.

Gutless College Coach of the Year
Pat Tye, er, Dye, of Auburn. Yes, this pun has been used before, but gutlessness on this level should not
be taken lightly. With the ball on the thirteen-yard line in a bowl game that could not possibly decide the
mythical national championship, Dye went for a field goal and a deadlock with Syracuse. He cheated his players, himself, and
Auburn. What good could the tie do for the War Eagles? Go for the win and a little pride. If
you come up short, at least you know that you played to win. A tie is as satisfying as kissing
your sister.

Shot of the Year
No, not Magic’s “baby hook” in Game 4 of the NBA Championship, nor Keith’s jumper to win the NCAA’s, but
Larry’s chip to win the Masters.

The Ballroom Dance of the Year
The March bout between Mike Tyson and James “Eggcrusher” Smith. Neither fighter deserved to wear the tuxedo at this fancy
dress farce.

Leaper of the Year
This is a tough category, with Michael Jordan, Spud Webb, et al, but the nod has to go to the
Reds’ Eric Davis. It is surprising Whitey.

Athlete With the Most Varied Interests
Who else? Beautiful Bo Jackson of the Kansas City Royals/Los Angeles Raiders.

Class Move of the Year
Bobby Knight yanking his Indiana team off the floor after he picked up two quick technicals against the Russian team.
Shut up, Bobby, take the techs, and try to coach your way off the court instead of “taking your players
and going home.”

Quote of the Year
This one comes from the White Rat himself, Whitey Herzog of the Cardinals. Way back in April, Sports Illustrated quoted
Whitey as saying, “I can’t figure out how anyone in the AL West finishes as high as .500. I guess
the only reason is that they have to play one another.” You may remember that Whitey’s boys, the Cardinals, dropped
the Fall Classic to one of those AL West teams, that, by the way, finished above .500. Open mouth, insert
foot.

Celebration of the Year
Pat Cash climbing into the stands after taking the Wimbledon title. No doubt he took the royal box by surprise
by hopping the fence to celebrate with Dad and friends, but it did make a great picture.

Dream of the Year
Charlotte’s efforts to make itself into a major league city. The Queen City landed an NBA franchise and now is
exploring the possibilities of both pro football and baseball. Great. Let Charlotte prove that it can support one professional team
before it becomes an expansion graveyard.

Cheap Shot of the Year
Easy. Dave Brown of the Philadelphia Flyers. His cheap shot on Tomas Sandstrom of the Rangers was inexcusable. Sandstrom is
no angel, but what Brown did was criminal. The punishment did not fit the crime, which is not surprising considering
the NHL’s usual treatment of goons, and Brown was back on the ice as soon as you could say “assault
and battery.” A more fitting punishment would have been to leave Brown alone in a roomful of Sandstrom’s relatives.

Author of the Year
This is a tough category. There were so many classic books published by sports figures this year. Just pick up
any of the tomes that the ex-NFL champion New York Giants players churned out. What a prolific bunch. Instead of
worrying if their editor was ruining the books with a red pen, they should have had their ever-increasing butts in
the weight room. Super Bowl to see-you-in-the-fall and not a one on the best-seller list.

See McCARRON, p. 10
