“Monday, November 7, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

The Davidsonian endorsement

Seasoned political observers at The Davidsonian have been mystified for weeks at the pounding Michael Dukakis is taking in national
polls. Then we remembered that we as media kingmaker types had left out one crucial aspect of the process: the
Davidsonian endorsement. The ritual anointing of candidates by the Fourth Estate is a treasured part of the American political heritage.
The failure of The Washington Post to endorse either Presidential candidate has left the field wide open for a brash
journalistic newcomer to galvanize the American people and send them eagerly to the polls. After consulting with Nancy Reagan’s astrologer,
Elvis, Will Terry and a Ouija board we found in the basement of Belk, we have decided that while we
are not that newspaper, we’re willing to fake it. For what it’s worth: Michael S. Dukakis is the best candidate
for President. He offers precisely what George Bush and the current Administration lack in sufficient quantities: judgment, integrity, competence.

Bush’s record over the past eight years reflects little to be proud of. The traditional political emasculation that the Vice-Presidency
deals its occupants has been seen to a striking degree in the Reagan years. After eight years in office, George
Bush remains qualified for nothing more than another term as Vice-President, if that. His fingerprints are conspicuously absent from most
Reagan Administration initiatives that he is presently attempting to take credit for.

Part of the problem stems from the paradox of the Vice-Presidency: Bush has been exceedingly close to power while not
actually having any of it himself. Any claim Bush makes to having a pivotal role in Administration decisions is a
misrepresentation of the truth.

The Quayle decision stands as a ringing indictment of Bush’s good judgment and competence. The unanswered questions about Quayle’s past
should have disqualified him from the start; the baggage he has brought to the campaign and the resources that the
Bush camp has had to expend to shield Quayle have been overwhelming. He has not been a good senator. He
has not been a good candidate. He would probably make an adequate Vice-President, you know, funerals and such, but there’s
always that presidential succession thing, and that should scare the daylights out of everyone. And finally, when all is said
and done, Michael Dukakis did take his own bar exam.

We've said Dukakis is the best candidate. But is he merely the better of two poor candidates? Is a vote
for Dukakis merely a vote against mediocrity and the shallow values of the Reagan Administration? Well, yes and no. Yes
in the sense that it is a rejection of those things that George Bush represents, and no in the sense
that a vote for Dukakis is in fact a vote for an excellent candidate, a man worthy and fully able
to take the reins of this country. In his tenure as Governor of Massachusetts, Michael Dukakis has shown himself to
be an effective, competent and moral leader. Throughout the campaign, in the face of some of the dirtiest tactics in
recent memory, he has kept his cool and his values intact.We are in desperate need of these qualities. What we
don’t need is a Reagan wanna-be trying desperately to be liked through pork rind eating and country music listening. Ronald
Reagan has already proved the utility of electing a really nice guy to the Oval Office; (to use a truly
awe-inspiring metaphor) today the nation is “standing tall” on very thin ice over a sea of red ink in which
swim the sharks of economic collapse. Michael Dukakis probably won’t be your pal in the Oval Office. He’ll make the
tough choices that have been swept under the carpet for the last eight years, that would continue to be swept
into corners by a Bush Administration. These decisions will come from a firm moral compass and will reflect the best
interests of all Americans. Vote for a leader, vote for courage, vote for this country’s future. Vote for Michael Dukakis.

THE DAVIDSONIAN POLL

A total of 315 students were contacted randomly last week and asked four questions: Are you registered to vote? Are
you going to vote? For whom are you going to vote? On a different tack, we asked students their opinion
of what should be done about the football team’s situation.

Are you registered to vote?
YES: 234
NO: 81

(If registered) Are you going to vote?
YES: 213
NO: 21

(If registered and voting) For whom are you going to vote?
DUKAKIS/BENTSEN: 85
BUSH/QUAYLE: 113
OTHER: 7
UNDECIDED: 18

What is the best course for Davidson’s football team?
Keeping the status quo: 28
Finding another conference: 39
Finding a new coach: 35
Seeking Division III status: 92
Giving football scholarships: 33
Eliminating the program: 71

Hi! We’re back. The boss has a lot to say this week, so we got shunted off to the side
here. The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year, and this week only our circulation manager Holme Oltrogge has
pledged to drink a beer for every subscription we get. Actually, that is a lie. Advertising rates available on request.
Copyright is held by the football-lovin’ Trustees of Davidson College.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll.
Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome.
News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras,
Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones,
Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie
Zimmermann.
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce
Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.
Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.
Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland Smith, Mark Steen.
Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.
Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens.
