Thursday, September 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

National Council of Teachers of English Summer Institute for Teachers of Literature to Undergraduates where the topic was “Gender Studies and the Canon.”

Assistant Professor John Engell had a poem, “Talking to Him--Five Months,” published in the Spring 1988 issue of “The Old Red Kimono.” Engell also had a review of Ferrol Sam’s “The Widow Mite & Other Stories” in the Spring 1988 “Chattahoochee Review.” During the coming academic year, Engell will have two of his essays published: “Narrative Irony and National Character in Royall Tyler’s ‘The Algerine Captive’” in “Studies in American Fiction” and “Kubrick’s ‘Barry Lyndon’: A Picture of Irony” in “Eighteenth-Century Life.” Also, “Pembroke” will publish another of Engell’s poems, “Saying a Prayer to Him--Twenty Months” and Ungar’s new “Encyclopedia of American Literature” will include six essays by Engell on six early American writers: Jeremy Belknap, Hugh Henry Brackenridge, Royall Tyler, Gilbert Imlay, John Neal, and Robert Montgomery Bird. Engell is at work on both a book about early American fiction and a novel with an academic setting.

Associate Professor Lauren Yoder presented “Mythmaking in the Caribbean” to the Caribbean Studies Association.

Former Assistant Professor of English John Engell, who was denied tenure in a controversial decision last year, had published in the July Davidson Update Faculty Notes section the above entry. Not coincidentally, Engell reportedly perished because he did not publish.

Cliffs Notes answer your questions about literature, improve your grades, and save you time. Come in and see our Cliffs Notes display.

Available at: Davidson Bookstore 704-892-6841

Mon-Thurs. 9-5 Fri. 9-6

UNITED CAROLINA BANK

Downtown Davidson Come Bank with Us

EMERGENCY!

Davidson Rescue Service

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Service is a student organization operating 24 hours per day, every day during the school year. We are staffed and operated by state-certified Emergency Medical Technicians. No emergency is too big or small!