Stuart Scholarship Undergoes Changes

By DAVID BEARCE

Due to the amount of funds available, the Stuart Scholarship program will be changed in 1990. Instead of offering three
full-year scholarships to incoming freshmen, it will offer major awards to Davidson juniors and seniors.

The Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarships are funded outside of the Davidson College endowment. It is “unlike internal awards and scholarships,”
according to Executive Director for Institutional Advancement Julius Melton. Davidson College has a “close-knit relationship” with the Stuart Foundation, and
they have the “right to alter their approaches,” Melton added.

The Stuart Foundation has been committed to Davidson College since the death of Edward Crosland Stuart, a 1954 Davidson graduate.
Despite their financial difficulties due to the rising cost of a Davidson education, the Stuart Foundation wants the scholarships “to
be meaningful,” added Melton. This change was developed in collaboration with Davidson in order to “maintain the presence and honor”
of the Stuart scholarships.

Other schools in the Southeast have large merit scholarship programs. For example, UNC-CH has the Morehead Scholarship, and Washington and
Lee has ten merit full-scholarships per year. The lack of a big merit scholarship does pose “a direct threat to
our top strata,” according to Melton. Nonetheless, Davidson will be able to attract a lot of students with its smaller
merit scholarships. In addition, there is a “place in the upcoming campaign” to fill the gap left by the modification
of the Stuart scholarship program, remarked Melton.

Melton says that Davidson must not ignore its principle of meeting 100% of demonstrated financial need. The desire for new
merit scholarships must not detract from Davidson's commitment to provide need-based scholarships, he said.

Associate Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Bob Gardner says that the modification of the Stuart scholarships has “had a
little bit of an effect.” However, Davidson will continue to attract top high school seniors.

Monday, December 5, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tong Speaks Out at Campus Meeting Against “Bad” Pornography

By DELIA JOHNSON

Visiting distinguished Professor of Humanities Rosemarie Tong spoke at the campus meeting November 17 on the topic of pornography and
feminists’ attempts to ban pornographic material. Tong stated that many feminists have encountered problems in their fight against pornography.

Most feminists believe that pornography relates more to male power over women than to sex. Because feminists advocate sexual freedom
for women, they face a dilemma: how to let women continue to explore their sexuality and at the same time
stand against pornography.

The dilemma was resolved by dividing pornography into erotica, “good porn,” which portrays partners in an equal relationship, and bad
porn, “slice and dice,” which pairs sex and violence. Tong and others fear that bad porn may lead to aggressive
behavior toward women. Any porn which presents women as dumb, enjoying or deserving abuse, and promoting violence should be banned.

It has been difficult to analyze the two types of pornography and to divide them into such groups. For example,
the Lockhart committee, the Presidential committee on pornography, found that pornography does not necessarily spur violent behavior.

The Lockhart committee relied on experiments done by Dr. Mosher in which men were shown the two types of pornography
and asked a series of questions before and after the films. The responses were more aggressive after viewing the bad
porn, but the committee found the results to be inconclusive because it was not certain that the aggression was the
result of violent scenes or sex scenes.

Tong cited a case involving the television drama “Born Innocent,” shown by NBC, in which a girl is “raped” with
a coke bottle by other girls. The day after the drama was aired, a similar incident occurred in a school
by girls who had seen the movie.

There have also been problems in proving that pornographic films defame women. Tong defines defamation, according to the law, as
damage done to a person’s reputation by expressing opinions to a third party. Pornography producers argue that they are merely
presenting visions to an audience and not making a statement about women.

A final issue encountered by feminists is the argument that pornographic material is protected under freedom of speech. Tong and
others feel that pornography “appeals to the gut.”

Many women involved in pornography as actresses and models are in the same position as Linda Martiano (porn star Linda
Lovelace) whose husband/director forced her to participate. Most are involved, according to Tong, because they either need the money or
are forced into the role.

EFFECTS, from page 3

the athletic budget will remain the same but will be transferred internally to the other sports,” explained Pryor.

However, The Charlotte Observer quoted Davidson religion professor David Kaylor as saying that he doubts the savings gained by dropping
to Division III will make much of an impact on women’s sports. Kaylor remarked, “I really don’t see how realistically
there’s a major savings involved.”

Due to enthusiasm and petitions from the club women’s soccer team, Morris claims that his department is considering adding a
varsity women’s soccer team in addition to its plans to “phase in” swimming and diving programs.

Associate Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Bob Gardner says that the move will have no great impact overall on
admission or admissions policies. This year Davidson has been attracting swimming, diving, and women’s soccer prospects in anticipation of new
varsity sports to be added in the future. In January the admissions office will write letters to those prospective students
and inform them of the status of sports at that time.
