Chocoholics rejoice! A “chocolate fantasy” will take place at the Guest Quarters Suite Hotel in Charlotte on Sunday, April 24 from 1:00 pm to 5:00 pm. Thousands of chocolate samples will be available, and jazz will be performed by The Faction. Advance tickets cost $7.50 for adults and $5.00 for children ages 3 to 12, and are available at all Ticketron outlets and through Teletron at 1-800-233-4050. They may also be purchased by phone from the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders Association (ADRDA) at 704-377-2206. Tickets at the door will cost $10.00 for adults and $7.50 for children. Children under 3 attend free. All proceeds will benefit the N.C. Southern Piedmont Chapter of the ADRDA.

Womble receives Marshall award

Davidson College Cadet Lt. Colonel Kathy Womble of the North Carolina Foothills Battalion has been awarded the prestigious George C. Marshall award. She is the first female cadet from the Davidson Army R.O.T.C. group to win the award. The George C. Marshall award is presented annually to the most outstanding senior cadet in the region. As a result of winning the award, Womble will attend the annual George C. Marshall R.O.T.C. Award Seminar this week in Lexington, Virginia with the three hundred finest cadets in the country. Womble won the award based upon an exemplary performance at R.O.T.C. Advanced Camp last summer, her successful completion of Army Airborne Ranger school in the summer following her sophomore year, and Cadet Troop Leadership Training (CTLT) in a Combat Engineer Battalion at Fort Benning, Georgia last summer. She is scheduled to graduate from Davidson College with a B.A. in Economics this June as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Military Intelligence Branch of the U.S. Army. She will report to Fort Huachuca, Arizona on active duty in October.

Barrow, Hall engaged

Over Easter break, former Davidsonian News Editor John Barrow took Clisby Hall '87 on a “special” Easter egg hunt. Inside one of the Easter eggs she found was an engagement ring. Of course, Hall could not refuse such a creative proposal. The couple will be married in August. They are both natives of Macon, Georgia and have been dating since high school. We knew this would happen, John. Congratulations!

Students question Jennings at open forum on housing

New dorms, single perimeter house and semester abroad discussed

By DAVID SCOTT

Due to the many questions students have raised about the college’s housing policy for the upcoming academic year, an open forum discussion, sponsored by the Campus Forum Committee, was held Tuesday, April 5 with Tom Jennings, head of the Residence Life Office. Topics discussed were the completion date of the new dorms, the status of students studying abroad fall semester and the availability of off-campus housing.

Students expressed considerable concern over the new policy prohibiting students who plan to be abroad fall semester from participating in the housing lottery. Many were worried about the added “hassle” of being put on a waiting list for a room with an unknown roommate. Such a proposition, they argued, discourages a student from going abroad and contradicts the accepted policy of seniority in room assignments. Jennings, however, is committed to providing on-campus housing for students who plan to study at Davidson for the full year. He assures those going abroad fall semester that there should be minimal “hassle” involved in obtaining rooms and that the policy will stand. Jennings stated that the changes in the housing policy are a product of the additional spaces provided by the new senior apartments. All students desiring on-campus housing should have no trouble attaining it.

In response to inquiries into the status of the new dormitories (scheduled for completion by the end of August), Jennings said that the new rooms will be available for use by August 20 provided that no unforeseen difficulties arise. Excessive summer rains or other problems in construction could forestall the completion of the dorms for two or three weeks. In this case, those without a room would be housed in faculty/staff housing, temporary triples, perimeter houses or whatever other spaces might be available until the dorms were completed. Jennings wished to stress, however, that such a situation would be very temporary and would probably not occur at all.

Jennings also informed students of the structure and location of the new buildings, which will be of red brick with white columns. Each of the three buildings (currently designated A, B, and C) will consist of three floors with four units per floor. Each unit will be provided with a carpeted and furnished common living area and a kitchen with a refrigerator and a small stove. Four 9' by 10' bedrooms will connect with the common living area. The new dorms will be located next to the golf course between the baseball and soccer fields. Limited parking spaces will be available.

Only one perimeter house, Martin Manor, will be used for student housing next year. The others will be used for office space. The old college apartments will also be closed for eventual conversion into a new infirmary. The Residence Life Office has also decided that Richardson is too small to house all the freshmen women. Fourth Cannon will therefore become a freshmen hall with basement Richardson set aside for emergency use.

Speaker discusses private and public abuses of environment

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Davidson College’s first Environmental Week, April 4-8, educated the community through lectures, discussions and activities. The keynote address, given Monday by Dr.Karen Lind Eckert focused on the misuse of the commons—that is, public areas—as well as environmental areas such as rain forests and oceans. Eckert identified pollution’s cause as the “privileges-but-not-obligations” approach to the commons. Nations have habitually taken for granted the theory which states that since the individual is the best judge of his own welfare, the interactions of many individuals produce the best communal welfare. The abuse of such a large area as the commons, however, offers individual gain without “immediate negative feedback.” Thus, individuals, looking toward their own welfare, more or less consciously contribute to communal ruin. Calling for increased government regulation, Eckert gave several examples of individual and national abuse. Individual abuse centers upon the extended use of automobiles, crowding in national parks, and use of aerosol spray cans—small problems which cause indirect detrimental consequences. National abuses which pollute the air and water include taking fish from the oceans and strip-mining for minerals. One of the most tragic examples of national abuse of the commons concerns the ruin of the rain forests. According to Eckert, rain forests cover 7 percent of the planet’s surface but house 80 percent of human and animal species. Their destruction, at the rate of 240 square miles a day, results in the loss of many species necessary to the ecological system, the extermination of native cultures, and the significant alteration of regional climates. For example, the decay of the ozone layer called the “greenhouse effect” is already raising the temperature of the seas and atmosphere, causing changes in rainfall patterns.

Eckert proposed two possible means of conservation to contain the ruin of the commons. One of these means is governmental cooperation and control. The United Nations spearheaded the attempt for global environmental control by establishing the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) in 1948. However, the programs prepared by the IUCN provide little real incentive to cooperate. Says Eckert, “states control and administer only what they have to control and administer—funds are limited and regulations are expensive.” The belief that what is good for the individual state is also good for the whole prevails. The other possible means for conservation are international organizations which “rely on the participation of non-governmental entities” such as scientists, local organizations, and citizens’ groups. Eckert spoke of WIDECAST, the group with which she is affiliated, commissioned to “explore the possibility of formalizing the recommendations of citizens and scientists in the drafting of management and conservation of governments.” Eckert says that groups such as WIDECAST often achieve better results because they are not bound by political shackles. Therefore, citizens are able to “communicate, share information, and share funding.” Eckert closed her presentation by advocating involvement in groups such as WIDECAST and stressing the need for constriction and control of the commons.

Following Eckert’s presentation, the college Recycling Committee adopted Eckert’s challenge for individual responsibility toward the commons by proposing a recycling plan for Davidson College. Recycling bins were placed on all levels of the union and a recycling drive was organized for Patterson Court April 4-11.

SEMESTERS, from page 1

Requirements will continue as under the trimester system. However, the major requirements for next year’s juniors will vary within each department. The status of each member of the class of ’90 as regards his/her major will be reviewed with the student receiving first priority. As Registrar Sue Ross explained, “each student will be given the benefit of the doubt.” As the class of ’91 will have completed only their freshman year before the inception of semesters, they will have the biggest transition to make. The language requirement of three courses leading to the intermediate level will remain the same with one small variation. Students will no longer have the possibility of completing their language requirement in three consecutive trimesters but will instead have an extended timeline of three consecutive semesters over a year and a half. The class of ’91 will also have the choice between the old area requirements—twelve courses divided equally between four different areas—and the new area requirements, which consist of ten courses over six different areas. Registrar Sue Ross feels that this semester system will give the student much more flexibility of choice and a more relaxed pace to follow their academic pursuits. Ross also notes that this change to a semester system gives Davidson College the chance to “fine-tune” its liberal arts curriculum and to “try to make the academic experience exciting.”

SGA, from page 1

Murray expressed the desire to increase minority involvement in the college and to possibly create a position for an international senator on the SGA. The new SGA president is enthusiastic about the coming year and the SGA’s responsibility in meeting the students’ needs. He stressed, however, that “the SGA does not function without the students. Too many times people are unaware [of SGA activities] and do not understand its function.” Murray hopes to get more students involved in SGA committees and to generate more interaction between the senators and their classes. A suggestion box will be placed in a visible spot on campus. Murray and Winn have already sorted through old files, completed administrative work, and met with student and administrative leaders to discuss the priority issues.