4

Union Board answers selection criticisms in forum

By TRIPP HELMS

The Union Policy Committee held a forum Tuesday night to inform students about the process used to select Union Board committee chairpersons.

Union Board President Sara Whitesides and vice presidents Trina Janiec and Frank Whitaker appointed committee heads late last term.

Several students had protested, in letters to The Davidsonian and elsewhere, when the officers of the Union Board recruited chairpersons who did not sign up to be considered for the positions.

Whitesides explained to the students who came to the forum that there is no specific policy outlined in the Union by-laws concerning the selection process.

The only mention of general chairperson selection in the by-laws states that “each vice president shall appoint along with the Union president the chairpeople of the Program committees....”

To alleviate the misunderstanding that students must sign up to be considered for a Union Board position, Whitesides said the board plans to add the phrase “the officers of the Union Board reserve the right to extend the applicant pool” to next year’s sign-up sheets.

Monday, April 4, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

COMPLEX, from page 3

Baker gift was about an eight-year process. The Kresge foundation has challenged the college to raise $16.2 million of the 17 million by July 1, 1989, and it will then add the additional $800,000.

To this point, only about 250 people have contributed the $11.7 million.

The college has begun a massive fund-raising project that will last through the spring.

Sixteen thousand brochures have been sent out to solicit gifts and explain the extent of the project.

In May, all interested students and athletic personnel will be involved in a

We'll even provide $2000 in Tuition Assistance drawings along with free hot dogs and refreshments. Present this flyer for free admission to the Sports Club of America Time Trials.

solicit the needed funds. The calls will be directed at a specific target group of active supporters of the athletic program and other influential alumni.

Jones added that the fund-raising effort will continue at a rapid pace, despite Davidson losing its Southern Conference affiliation.

The college was able to handle the initial funding of the dorms and the gym complex with a successful 20 million dollar bond sale.

QUALITY

IT PAYS TO GRADUATE

Congratulations Seniors! General Motors provides the kind of graduation present you've always dreamed of and GMAC Financial Services will guarantee the financing--how?

$400 Rebate

Cutlass Supreme International Series

No Payments for 90 Days
Low Down Payment
Competitive Rates
Up to One Year to Buy

General Motors College Graduate Expo '88
Charlotte Motor Speedway
Friday April 15, 12:00 PM - 6:00 PM
Saturday April 16, 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM

For further details contact your neighborhood Pontiac-Oldsmobile-Buick and GMC Truck Dealer-See you in your dreams!

IT’S NOT JUST A TRUCK ANYMORE.