Martin Memorial Service
A service will be held in memory of Diane Martin this Friday at 2 p.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Diane, wife of David Martin, assistant professor of economics, was killed on Friday, February 5 in a car accident on Poplar Tent Road on her way to her job as an economics lecturer at UNCC. She was 28. Memorial gifts should be sent to the Charlotte Humane Society, 537 Rountree Rd., Charlotte, NC 28210.

Taiwanese Presbyterians
The Dean Rusk program and the President’s Office will be hosting a presentation entitled “Taiwan: Church and Society in the Midst of Change” on Wednesday, February 17 at 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. A delegation of Taiwanese Presbyterians will discuss issues such as democratization in Taiwan, the influence of the church in national affairs, relations with the People’s Republic of China, the economic development and welfare of workers, the role of women in church and society, and the relationship of Christianity to folk religions.

Seniors to be Honored
Davidson Wildcat basketball seniors Derek Rucker, Jeff Himes, Dean Keener, Mike Gynn, and Dave Fitzgerald will be honored in special ceremonies prior to the February 18th game with Furman at Johnston Gym. The event will begin at 7:15 p.m. and the presentations will be made by college president John Kuykendall and athletic director Kit Morris.

Faculty Needed for Love of Learning
Love of Learning is a holistic educational program aimed at promising black secondary school students in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school system. The program’s recruitment drive for staff and participants begins this month, and its coordinators hope that Davidson faculty will be interested in learning more about the program and perhaps even in teaching in it. Since the program’s curriculum is also being developed during this period, anyone who would like to know more about the program or who would like to communicate any ideas should call or leave a message for Clara Alexander, academic consultant for Love of Learning, at ext. 452.

Jones to Speak
Former NBA great Bobby Jones will speak on the “Presbyterian Man” on March 18, 1988, at a rally in the Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, 7224 Park Road, Charlotte. Jones, a basketball standout at South Mecklenburg, an All-American at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, will highlight a workshop beginning Friday evening at 7:30. The program will continue on Saturday morning with a series of workshops and sharing ideas for men’s work in the Presbyterian Church. The meeting will be open to the public. For reservations call Don Wilson at 568-2106.

Wednesday, February 10, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson
Dole Wins Iowa; Soviets to Leave Afghanistan
By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining the news February 1-9: Across the Nation—Bob Dole won decisively in the Iowa Republican caucuses, while Pat Robertson edged out George Bush for second place. Iowa is the first important contest of the 1988 presidential race. The victory for Robertson is viewed by many as a defeat for Bush, who now faces increased pressure to perform well in New Hampshire, the next big contest. The Democratic results were much closer, with Richard Gephardt taking the lead, followed by Paul Simon in second place and Michael Dukakis in third place.

The House of Representatives voted narrowly against President Reagan’s contra aid package on February 3. Although already-approved aid to the Nicaraguan rebels will last through most of February, the fate of the contra forces remains uncertain. The House vote was seen as a defeat for the Reagan administration.

The Arizona House of Representatives voted 46 to 14 to impeach Governor Evan Mecham. Mecham has been accused of mishandling campaign funds. The Arizona Senate will vote on conviction on February 22. In the meantime, Secretary of State Rose Mofford will assume Mecham’s duties as governor.

Around the World—Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev announced a timetable for the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. Soviet troops will begin leaving on May 15, if a settlement can be agreed upon on March 15 in Geneva. Gorbachev emphasized that Soviet withdrawal of troops was dependent on a cessation of Western aid to the Afghan rebel forces.

In response to the U.S. House of Representatives vote against further contra aid, the rebel leadership of Nicaragua has organized a fund for private U.S. donations. Peace talks set up between the contras and the Nicaraguan Sandinista government have been postponed.

Panamanian military chief Noriega was publicly accused in two federal indictments in Florida on Friday. Noriega, accused of helping drug trafficking from Panama into the U.S., has denied all charges. The U.S. is pressuring Panama for Noriega’s resignation.

Hostilities continue to worsen in the Israeli-occupied territories. Two more Palestinians were shot, bringing the total of those killed to 48 since December 8. Massive flooding and mudslides have left over 130 people dead.and 6000 more homeless in Brazil; Committee presents Sesquicentennial gift

Student donations lower than hoped

By MARGARET CARROLL

The Sesquicentennial Gift Committee, composed of sixteen members representing the college campus community, presented its gift of the Sesquicentennial Garden to the college at last Friday’s convocation. After receiving various suggestions from the campus, the committee decided to make the project the restoration of the water fountain at the Old Well to working order and to create a sitting area surrounded by flowers and shrubbery.

Money for the gift was collected from all sectors of the college community. Although student response was less than expected, employee response was almost 85%. Dr. Rupert Barber, Sesquicentennial Celebration Coordinator, feels that the students did not fully realize that the purpose of the gift is to be a fitting and lasting reminder of the celebration that would be visible to all members of the campus community and its visitors. The garden can be used both now and for many years to come.

The renovation process has actually begun. Grover Meetze, Jr. ‘55, Director of the Physical Plant and Facilities Planning, designed the plans, and the project is expected to be completed by Commencement of this year. Although it was difficult to come up with the appropriate gift, the garden will provide a much-needed outdoor sitting area. Barber feels that because the committee chose to collect funds through personal initiative, rather than solicit people and ask for money, many students did not fully understand the purpose of the project. However, the students who responded did so generously. The gift will be more special for those who understood that they were giving to the college community as a whole. Overall, the committee was pleased at the response that it received and anticipates the completion of the garden.

Rupert Barber, Sesquicentennial Coordinator

Winokur Speaks On Soviet churches

By MARGARET CARROLL

On Wednesday, February 1, the Dean Rusk program hosted Marshall Winokur, Associate Professor of Russian at the University of Alabama, who spoke to a large group of students and faculty members about the crisis of disappearing churches in Moscow.

With an interesting slide show, Winokur compared past church sites with modern-day buildings in Moscow. Winokur explained that this year marks the millennium of Holy Russia, whose faith has withstood many invasions and other obstacles. To begin his talk, Winokur compared Moscow to New York City. New York, which has a population of 7.2 million and an area of 300 square miles, has 3525 active churches and synagogues. Moscow, which has a population of 8.5 million and an area of 339 square miles, has only 51 active churches. New York has 2,000 people per church, while Moscow has 166,666 people per church.

Since 1917, when there were approximately 700 churches in Moscow, the Soviets have razed, secularized, abandoned, or rendered inactive many churches as a result of the Soviet Union’s Marxist ideology, which seeks to eradicate religion. A violent anti-religion campaign in the 1920s led to mass church closings all over the city. Also, mass urban growth and an attempt to break away from a decadent past resulted in the government’s confiscating church property and destroying many churches. In 1917 there were 25 active monasteries in Moscow, and now there is only one functioning monastery. Also today there are 303 religious structures, 51 of which are active Russian Orthodox churches and seven of which are of other denominations: Jewish, Moslem, Roman Catholic, and Armenian Apostolic. The secularized churches are used as showcases, museums, or are remodeled for secular use, and the abandoned churches are left unrestored and vandalized in many cases. Urban renewal programs will probably only destroy more churches.

Winokur concluded that we can only hope for restoration and reopening of the many abandoned and secularized Moscow churches. The Russian Orthodox faith, which has survived for 1000 years now, is on the verge of disappearance, and Moscow’s disappearing churches provide only a reminder of the majesty that was once “Holy Russia.”