R A
The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 7

Trustee Chairman Ben Craig dies at 55

~ By MICHELE MILLER ~
The flag hangs at half mast today in honor of Ben T. Craig '54, chairman of the Board of Trustees at Davidson College, who died Monday morning of brain cancer at his home in Charlotte.

His death came three days after members of the board, knowing of his terminal cancer, reelected him for a second term as chairman. Craig, 55, had been a longtime friend and active supporter of the college ever since his graduation in 1954.

As a measure of his love for the college, he directed that he be buried in the Davidson cemetery. Graveside services were held in Davidson at 3 p.m. today. Classes were canceled after 3 p.m. and college offices closed. A memorial service is scheduled for tomorrow morning, at 11 a.m. at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

"I really couldn’t have gone to college without a full scholarship," Craig once said, "and while I received a couple offers for partial aid, Davidson’s was the only full scholarship offer I received. And I think the offer came not so much because of my athletic ability as because the Davidson coach had a good relationship with my high school coach." He was a solid 205-pound tackle for the football team for four years, serving as captain his senior year.

A self-proclaimed “linthead from Gastonia,” Craig grew up working alongside his parents, Ben W. Craig and Louis Sams Craig, who owned a small grocery store there. He listed his experience in his youth as “common laborer, pipeline inspector, dry goods sales and loader in trucking terminal.” He was outstanding at Davidson, earning a B.S. degree in economics. He was a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade, and Who’s Who. Upon graduation, he worked for Wachovia Bank and Trust.

See CRAIG, Page 2

Trustees vote to end sexual admissions quotas

New plan to base gender breakdown on number of applications received

By THOMAS H. MOORE

Davidson’s Board of Trustees voted Friday to modify its standing policy restricting female admissions. The new plan will take into account a five-year average of the male-female breakdown of applications.

The 31-1 vote rescinds the 1982 policy, which has set freshman classes between 60 and 67 percent male. The new plan is effective immediately and will be applied to next year’s freshman class.

Jim Batten chaired the newly formed Trustee committee studying the issue. “Our first assignment was to look at the effectiveness of the 60 percent floor and make recommendations as to whether it should stand,” he said.

“As we worked on the problem, we came as a committee increasingly to the view that the best interest of the college would be served by a change in the policy.”

“As we learned more about the workings of the admissions process at Davidson, it became more and more clear that the 60 percent floor really does not provide the admissions office and admissions process the kind of flexibility that is desirable in making the best set of choices.”

The change that the committee recommended consists of basing each freshman class’ gender split on the average of the last five years’ applicant breakdown. A four percent margin is allowed in either direction. As applications have run 58 percent male over the past five years, the class of 1993 will be between 62 and 54 percent male (see table).

The 1982 Trustee policy reads in pertinent part: “.. Freshmen and transfer students shall be enrolled in such a manner as to maintain a male/female ratio with the student body ranging from 3-2 to 2-1.”

The five-year strategy was chosen to reduce as much as possible large yearly fluctuations in the numbers of males and females. “The ratio of applications has been remarkably steady, an extraordinarily steady phenomenon,” says Batten.

“Our feeling was that we needed to provide the admissions staff with more flexibility in selecting from the best male and female applicants,” he said.

“I asked for the decision,” said Director of Admissions and Financial Aid Rob Gardner. “We felt that a four to five percent leeway would be equitable,” he said. “We now have a floating standard with the leeway we need.”

Psychology professor Ruth Ault is chair of the faculty committee examining the matter.

“The Trustees and Ruth Ault and John Kuykendall and I met three times. It was a joint effort. What we tried to do was look at all the different arguments that had been advanced for the current policy and respond to those arguments,” said Gardner.

“We looked at the giving records of women and nine or ten things in all to see if they were in fact valid arguments,” said Gardner.

As part of the report, the committee submitted to the Trustees a study done on college donation records. An argument against a higher percentage of women at Davidson has been a perceived lower giving level from women.

“The evidence indicates that it doesn’t hold water,” Gardner said.

“The available evidence suggests that Davidson’s women graduates are firmly committed to the financial support of the College,” said the committee’s report (See table).

One of the committee’s concerns was legal. Although the college’s counsel has advised that restrictions on admissions policies do not apply to private schools, officials were concerned that an expensive, embarrassing, if ultimately unsuccessful nuisance suit might result from current policies.

The Trustee committee decided early on to modify only slightly the policy. “There was not within our committee any feeling that Davidson ought to go to gender-blind admissions or that we would want to see Davidson become a predominantly women’s college,” says Batten.

The University of North Carolina at

See POLICY, Page 3