Wednesday, February 10, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson students have acquired reputation as thieves

Shawnee Verner

What I must say could shock some of you. To others who have been victims, you already know the story.
Since I’ve been victimized repeatedly, I’ve decided it’s time to speak up. Here’s the bad news: We, fellow students, have
acquired a reputation in the community of being petty thieves. Worse news: Some of us thieves, even with Davidson-qualifying SAT
scores and high GPAs, confuse the meanings of the words “borrowing” and “theft.” So let me give the definitions for
clarity’s sake: To borrow is to receive something with the implied or expressed intention of returning it. A theft is
an act of stealing: the felonious taking and removing of personal property so that the rightful owner is deprived of
it. If it is not culturally acceptable to be a “thief,” this act is referred to politely as “borrowing.”

Last weekend, my bicycle was “borrowed” from the front porch of my off-campus house. It didn’t show up at my
house again. To my relief, it finally turned up almost a week later in front of the Union building. No
one ever asked me if the bike could be borrowed. No one ever contacted me, although I ran a notice
in the announcement sheet asking that the borrower call me about the bike. I have no doubt that the bike
would never have been returned were it not for the good fortune that one of my friends saw and recovered
it for me. Last year, another bike was “borrowed” from my house; it is still missing. In both instances of
bicycle theft, the most common remark that people have made to me was “Oh, I’m sure some student borrowed it.”
“It'll show up somewhere on campus.” “Students borrow bikes all the time. They need to get somewhere in a hurry,
they see a bike and they grab it. They leave it wherever they stop, and if they don’t need to
use it again, no problem—someone else will come along and grab it up before long.”

This is the reputation that Davidson students have among members of the community, college staff, local law enforcement officers, and
even among the students! Few people ever suggested that my bike would have been taken by anyone other than a
student. And everyone seemed so matter-of-fact about it! Tell me, is theft now condoned on the Davidson campus? Shall we
add a willingness to steal, and be stolen from, as a new entrance requirement?

Among my personal beliefs are the principles: “Private property is theft,” and “Caring means sharing.” So I regret that I
will now have to make it a habit to lock my bike. I regret it for several reasons, including the
fact that it’s just plain inconvenient to have to fiddle with locks and keys on a bicycle. But the deeper
regret is in the loss of trust. I like to share possessions, and enjoy letting people borrow the bike. But
if the bike is “borrowed,” I no longer have access to it, and can no longer let anyone else borrow
something that I no longer have available to me. The bicycle is my primary means of transportation. I use it
to get to class on time and to run my errands. Furthermore, I bike for exercise and fun, and like
to grab a quick spin during the breaks in the pressure of schoolwork. I need to have the bike available,
or to know its whereabouts, at least. It is common botanical knowledge that bicycles don’t grow on trees. I cannot
afford to buy a new bike each time one is “borrowed” from me. Nor can I bring myself just to
“borrow” one from someone else. Thus to “borrow” the bike from me deprives me completely of all the benefits that
accompanied my investment in ownership.

The moral of this story: There’s a fine line between trust and naiveté. Some of the people who think that
theft is OK are bound by the same Honor Code that you are also sworn to keep.

Shawnee Verner is a senior political science major.

CONFERENCE, from p. 9

asked Davidson to abide by the rules and play football, or leave, Davidson has chosen to leave. Unfortunately, it has
done so at a time when its basketball team is at its greatest heights since it had one of the
finest programs in the country during the 1960s, and at a time when its athletic program is probably in the
best overall shape it has been since the early part of the century, when a feat like the football team
beating the University of North Carolina was possible (the Wildcats beat the Tar Heels, 6-0, in 1906). Once the Wildcats
leave the Southern Conference, not only will their “minor sport” athletic teams not have a place to compete for championships,
but their basketball program -- the school’s “showcase sport,” according to athletic director Kit Morris—will be set loose in a
black hole called independent status, a move one longtime Davidson observer calls “committing suicide.” Becoming an independent in major college
basketball is just that—suicide—in today’s college basketball world. Such a move is not comprehensible when one considers what Davidson has
been through the last three decades. Consider: In the 1960s, first under Lefty Driesell and then Terry Holland, Davidson basketball
teams won 20 games seven times, were ranked in the final top 20 polls six times, won five Southern Conference
regular season championships and four tournament titles, participated in four NCAA playoffs, finished one season ranked third in the nation,
twice came within four points of making the Final Four and produced four all-America players and five professional draft choices.
That’s how grand Davidson basketball was at one time. But from 1974-75 to 1984-85, Davidson did not have one winning
basketball team and was almost as bad in the sport as it is in football today. The school went through
several head coaches before Bobby Hussey, the present coach, arrived in 1981-82.Hussey’s commitment reached fruition and brought Davidson back to
glory in 1985-86 and 1986-87, when the Wildcats went 20-11 and 20-10, respectively, both times reaching the Southern Conference championship
game. And now, just as the school is getting cranked up again, it is leaving the Southern Conference. Just as
it is again shooting for 20 wins a year, just as it is showcasing players like Derek Rucker, a potential
professional draft choice who carries a 3.3 grade point average as an economics major and whom Davidson economics Prof. Charles
Ratliff calls “definitely the example of what we want at Davidson” -- just as Davidson is doing these things again,
it is about to drastically alter the course of its program, into an uncertain direction. Hussey doesn’t like the decision
and knows its dangers. Morris, too, knows its dangers and insists the school is looking to be in a new
conference as soon as possible—but no league attractive to Davidson seems to want the Wildcats. Meanwhile, students on campus are
suggesting that the school either give up football altogether, start giving scholarships, or even relegate the school to Division III
status for all sports. They also hate the thought of losing their basketball prestige. “Around here, it’s the sport everybody
lives for,” says sophomore Jenny Scott of Columbia, Md. But what other choice does the school have? What other choice
does the Southern Conference have? No one is asking Davidson to abandon its academic and institutional integrity; the school’s student-athlete
success is a paragon in the world of collegiate athletics. But the Southern Conference cannot allow Davidson waivers and benefits
other league members don’t have. “Their position is not unreasonable,” says Morris, “but it’s not especially sensitive.” What actually has
evolved is a hardening line against Davidson by the other schools, but those other schools’ policy toward Davidson is paradoxical
in one sense: It demands that Davidson play conference football, but yet a comparatively athletically-rich school like Tennessee-Chattanooga is allowed
to stay in the conference despite not having a baseball program. “The people in the Southern Conference think we get
an advantage by not playing within the conference in football, but that’s not true,” says Morris. “During the 1970s and
early '80s, when we didn’t compete for the conference championship in football, we didn’t have one single winning basketball season
and did not win a single conference championship in any sport.” Those other schools also see a sort of academic
snobbery espoused by Davidson when it says it won’t give football scholarships, but that, says Morris, isn’t the case either.
“It’s more of a practical decision,” he says. “It’s a $500,000 decision. For every three scholarships another school can give,
we can give one.” Whatever the leagues’ ostensible reasons for allowing Davidson to leave the league—or forcing it out, some
might say—it’s a situation that should not be allowed to happen for either the conference or Davidson. For Davidson, the
loss will be tremendous and quite tangible; its basketball program will probably twist in the wind and may even blow
away, just when it is growing strong again. For the Southern Conference, the loss of Davidson will be less of
a blow than Davidson will face and perhaps less tangible. But consider that not only is the league losing a
long-time member with a good basketball tradition, but more importantly, it is losing a school that is the league’s academic
star and which hails from the largest media market in the league, Charlotte. When Davidson leaves the Southern, undoubtedly the
Charlotte media will be leaving to an extent as well. And one may throw in the added bonuses of playing
in a conference that has a school in a National Basketball Association city, which Charlotte will become next year. Ironically
enough, Davidson may be the Southern’s representative in the NCAA tournament this year; the Wildcats are currently in first place
with a 4-0 record after whipping Western Carolina here Monday night. But if the school indeed leaves in June as
it plans to do, it will be the last realistic chance the basketball program will have of being in the
NCAAs for a long time. Davidson may do things right, may play some name teams and win one now and
then, may graduate 94 percent of its lettermen (which it has done since 1961) and produce lawyers and doctors and
even professional basketball players. But a program that doesn’t have the realistic chance to play in the NCAA tournament is
a program that has little future. And how can the Southern Conference let a school like Davidson get away? It
simply isn’t a smart decision. Charlotte is growing quickly, and the people of the town of Davidson realize that. They
want to maintain their town’s character and charm, but they know that the metropolis’ creeping up the road is inevitable,
and better they deal with it now and pragmatically. The new, growing metro Charlotte is likely to respect the town
of Davidson’s commitment to retain its character, and Davidson will understand that Charlotte must grow, and a happy medium will
be reached. In the same manner that reality and ideals will be wed between a growing city and a small
town, the Southern Conference and Davidson College must cooperate with each other and search for a happy medium that will
show good faith on both ends and respect for each other’s ideals and goals. But soon, it will be too
late. And when it is, both parties will regret not having done anything to prevent what doubtless will be a
painful and unnecessary divorce. Better they deal with it while they still can.

Chris Geis is sports editor of The Western Carolinian.
