“Awards convocation winners, p. 11

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXIX, Number 6
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, April 22, 1988

Burglars rob student store, steal rings worth $2000
By MUADI MUKENGE

Burglars broke a window to enter the Davidson College student store early last Monday morning; 10 class rings worth approximately
$2000 were taken. Store manager Chloe Myers states that this is the first time that the store has been broken
into during the past ten years that she has been an employee. The class rings were kept in an unlocked
glass case near the cash register.

The broken window was discovered by store employees Glenda Irwin and Pat Wilson a few minutes after 8:30 a.m., the
regular opening time. A deck of Davidson playing cards was on the window sill instead of in their usual place
in the glass case near the cash register. It was when the cards were taken to their rightful place that
the class rings were discovered missing. The college security was called, then the Davidson police were alerted. Also taken were
a letter opener and gold-plated as well as silver blazer buttons. The store was not ransacked. “Whoever did it obviously
knew what they came to get,” said Myers.

The windows are located in the back of the store, on the far left side. They are on ground level
from the outside, where the cafe loading dock is situated. The window panes were broken, and the latch opened to
allow entry. The burglars exited the same way. Door locks were not tampered with. The broken windows are unbarred, unlike
another pair of windows in the store. The windows open out approximately one foot high and 20 inches wide. Therefore,
the police speculate the burglars to have been small in stature. This hunch is supported by the fact that the
bookshelf under the window is very light and unstable—unable to bear a heavy person. None of the books on the
shelf were disturbed.

According to Myers, the police regularly walk by the window as they leave the Union cafe with the evening’s cash
tendings. The cafe closed at 1 a.m. Police speculate that the break-in occurred early Monday between that time and dawn.
Myers and another worker had worked on Saturday until 5 p.m., past the usual 12 noon closing time. Upon arriving
at her desk Monday morning, she noticed that her desk, which she had cleared and dusted, had tree debris scattered
on it. Apparently, the burglars had searched her desk. Fingerprints were taken by the police.

The store has no problem with shoplifters. In fact, says Myers, “we thought students were happy with our store.” (It
is not speculated that students committed the crime). The break-in has caused Myers and other employees concern for their own
safety. “I sometimes come in and work on weekends and I’m not sure I’ll do that again,” said Myers. “It
gives you a different feeling when you know you’re vulnerable.”

The store has no burglary system, but Myers says that plans are being made to take additional security measures. The
company which sells the class rings, Josten’s, was given a list of the stolen items. Davidson has been a client
of Josten’s for two years. As of press time, the college...Security had no leads as to the identity of the
burglars.

CCRL approves SGA’s new freshman rush policy

By TRIPP HELMS

In a meeting Wednesday, the Committee on Campus and Religious Life approved a policy concerning freshman rush presented by the
Student Government Association. The policy aims to lessen the central role that alcohol plays in Patterson Court functions during the
period that freshmen are choosing a house, according to SGA president Harrison Murray.

“We are trying to emulate the Spring Frolics type atmosphere, where alcohol was present on the periphery, but was not
a central element. People were playing hackey sack, listening to the band, and having fun,” says Murray.

The policy proposes campus-wide activities to take place between the third week of school and the time that freshmen are
allowed to go to the Court unrestricted. These activities will require full support of the Court, both “financially and organizationally,”
Murray says. The policy stipulates a financial contribution from each inside house. The College Union and the Dean of Students
Office may also lend financial and advisory support.

To help organize events and create enthusiasm for the program, Murray hopes that a committee consisting of representatives from the
houses on the Court, the Union, and other constituent organizations will be formed.

The policy is a result of some weeks of discussion in the Senate concerning the present rush system. The administration
suggested that dry rush might be a possible solution to the alcohol problems associated with selection. Under the present system,
many feel that freshmen experience a great deal of pressure to drink in order to feel accepted on the Court.
Another concern is that many freshmen meet house members when they are drunk and form misleading impressions.

According to Murray, there is a “strong faculty contingent that would like to see Patterson Court severely altered because of
concerns about the amount of alcohol consumed at parties and the lateness of the weeknight functions. They don’t want to
see Davidson turn into a party school.”

The administration saw dry rush, a period of time when no Court parties open to freshmen would serve alcohol, as
a possible solution to these problems. Proponents of the system cited Kappa Sigma Fraternity’s success with a dry rush period.
The house supplemented normal functions with band parties and comedy nights.

SGA discussion of the system brought immediate negative reaction from the Court, says Murray. Most were not in favor of
a dry rush mandated by the administration. Patterson Court Senators Caryn Coppedge and David Cors made several proposals concerning the
alternate policy.

Murray feels that the proposed change will not only affect the freshmen but the campus as a whole. “This policy
can bring student-faculty interaction and involve the whole campus.”

The Patterson Court Council will review the policy at their next meeting. Three-fourths of the houses must approve the policy
for it to be passed. The text of the resolution reads, in part:

“... WHEREAS, several maladaptive attitudes in regard to alcohol have pervaded our community and manifested themselves in increased violence, vandalism,
and animosity, and;

... WHEREAS, the student body would negatively react to any overt, administrative policy such as dry rush, which would limit
the right of the individual to free choice;

“LET IT BE RESOLVED THAT events of such a [non-alcohol-oriented] nature will be designed to promote not only mature alcohol
usage but also total campus interaction and harmony.

This will allow Patterson Court houses to come together for a common purpose, thus reducing present tensions which may...
