10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tom Moore, Editor
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Suzanne Craymer, Features Editor
Tripp Helms, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Mark Chen, Keith Finch, Brooke Knight, Editors Emeriti
John Wightman, Business Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Jennifer Hoffman, Section Production Editors

Bad News

The Davidsonian currently finds itself receiving criticism common to all news media: You’re too negative. You print all the bad
news that fits. There has been a streak of bad news in recent issues: alcohol scandals, costly vandalism episodes, thefts,
and most recently, sexually transmitted disease. An engaging but coincidental occurrence has been the Admissions Office ordering subscriptions for next
year’s Early Decision accepts (“Look, Ma!”). Fortunately, these people are locked into coming here, or we might be catching much
more flak.

Questions have been raised as to whether this is the type of thing parents, alumni, or prospective students want or
need to read. An interesting question, yet one easily answered. This is not the parent newspaper of Davidson College or
the alumni rag; they can read Update if they want rosy estimates on the athletic center completion dates and whatnot.
The Davidsonian is the student newspaper, and the issues raised in the last several weeks have been pertinent and newsworthy
to the student body. We did not send reporters out to knock down $6,000 in lampposts; we sent them out
to report on it. It is important for students to be aware of the workings of the Patterson Court Council
and its various committees. The chlamydia article last issue, while not good news, served the function of educating many people
about the bacterium. Chlamydia was on everyone’s tongue, if not other bodily parts, all week long.

It’s not that we don’t want to cover the good things in life at Davidson, but we are dependent on
what our little eyes and ears pick up, and by human nature much of what goes around is in fact
bad news. Parents, alumni, and others are more than welcome to subscribe to our newspaper, but we believe that they
aren’t subscribing for a sanitized version of life here; they want the facts. It would be unfaithful to students and
basically unethical to direct news coverage toward those who are not the primary focus of the newspaper. If I subscribe
to The Los Angeles Times, I can’t really complain should its coverage for some reason focus on the West Coast.

Due to time restraints this week, we were restricted to more or less “pleasant” stories about lectures and “what I
did during Spring Break” tales. Next week be sure to look for such things as information on the nearly 10%
fee hike the Trustees approved over break. To be sure it’s not good news, but it’s pertinent, it’s newsworthy, it’s
something every student here needs to know about, and it’s our job.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the top floor of the Grey
Student Union building. And, hey! Stan! The light bulbs at the top of the stairs are still out. This place
is a health hazard!

Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of
The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on
request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College in the same kung-fu grip they grab tuition with.Here is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

News Staff: John Barrow, Frank Folger, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall,
Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, John Harris (Good luck, Harris!), Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill
“Too Lazy to Write a Column” Scouten, Shannon O’Shields, Florrie Snively.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Otrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen.

---

Flash from the past

Letters: Shocked

I recently received a copy of The Davidsonian, the February tenth issue, and frankly was shocked by some of the
articles. So now we have student drunks vandalizing college property, apparently actions that have been happening for years. It’s hard
to believe that Davidson students, supposedly the “cream of the crop” among colleges and universities, would even consider this behavior,
and much harder to understand why the college would tolerate it. And Dean Terry’s decision to turn this matter over
to the Honor Council, if the guilty are found, sounds like a cop-out to me. First of all, if it’s
important enough to Davidson, the guilty can be identified and secondly, without hesitation, Dean Terry should kick their butts out
of Davidson College. In addition, these vandals should be forced to pay for the damages. It would be interesting to
know how the Dean has handled previous vandalism by students. Other articles dealing with student drug abuse, thievery, etc., paint
a very dismal picture of Davidson student life, its caliber of students and especially of an administration and faculty that
tolerates all of this. In time, I’m sure President Kuykendall will straighten this mess out. After all, it’s “impossible to
fire anyone (unless that person works somewhere within the athletic department) and President Kuykendall is still burdened by the residue
of a previous administration which stripped the guts from the college, leaving little except money and high academics to build
on. And who can blame the gays, lesbians, bisexuals, etc., for their reluctance to join the Gay Support Group. After
all, as the article states, these fellows, to protect their anonymity and confidentiality, would be dependent on the Honor System...
What Honor System?

Don D. Reid '54

---

The following letter was received by the Editors.

Dear President Kuykendall:

Had I been aware of the degree of destruction necessary for a parking lot to be built in the area
that I hold so personally valuable, my objections would have been lodged earlier. My intention now is not simply to
enter a frustrated remonstrance, but it is to draw your attention to the value that hundreds of Davidson alumni place
on the natural property owned by the college. We don’t have any statistics to support our emotional stance, but for
many of us all the basketball championships in the world will not condone the loss of the old football practice
field, the rugby pitch, the bird aviary, etc. There are of course more woods on the outskirts of Davidson and
I can only hope that they are spared from any more “progression.” I wish you well in your efforts toward
a more edifying and enlightening Davidson College.

Respectfully yours,

James C. Gaither, Jr. ‘87
