10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor  
Tripp Helms, News Editor  
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Features Editor  
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors  
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor  
John Wightman, Business Manager  
David Host, Opinions Editor  
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager  
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor  
Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Cristin Williams, Section Production Editors  

Service  
The Statement of Philosophy of Service that the Trustees passed is an eloquent document. It is a verbalization of an aspect of the natural law of Davidson that is too often ignored by students. Look at the statement carefully. Davidson is preparing us to be leaders and servants. The combination and the challenge it represents are exciting. Keep this document from being just so much printed paper.

Trees  
Another disturbing incidence of vandalism has occurred. The destruction of trees at Vail Commons, although not as expensive as last year’s lamppost incidents, is an indication that people are not taking seriously the abovementioned natural law that governs around here. What makes Davidson Davidson is the trust and respect we have for each other. Willful destruction of college property is a violation of this trust and respect. Besides, some of what makes Davidson Davidson is its trees! They are a strikingly undeserving and unusually hard to replace target for vandalism. This institution is an arboretum as well as a college. Trees placed around campus have been carefully selected and positioned. To have some jerk come along and uproot the thoughtful efforts of planners is disheartening.

Congratulations  
On the bright side: congratulations go to Dr. Mary Beaty, whose long-awaited volume on Davidson College has finally hit the bookstores, and to the women’s volleyball team, which with the help of a seventeen-game winning streak has posted a truly impressive record this season.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll.  
News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.  
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.  
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.  
Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.  
Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.  
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland Smith, Mark Steen.  
Spiritual Consultant From Afar:John A. Scranton Harris, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali

Thursday, October 20, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

FLICKERBALL- THE ONLY SPORT WE HAVEN'T SCREWED UP, YET
JOHN ENGEL

Letters

Shocked

Dear Editor:

On Sunday, October 9, I sprained my ankle playing football with my hallmates in front of Chambers building. Since I play on the club lacrosse team, I thought that it would be helpful to my continuation of practice to get the ankle taped before I started running again. So I got a friend who is on the field hockey team to take me to the athletes’ training room in hopes that someone could tape me and send me on my merry way. The trainer I spoke to looked at my ankle but told me that they were not allowed to do anything for me for budgetary reasons. I contained my anger and shock because I realized it was not her fault that she could not give me some measly pre-wrap and tape. I also realized that Davidson is in the process of building a gymnasium that will seat four or five times the entire student body. Now this makes all kinds of sense. Davidson College can afford an indoor tennis center, a 6,000-seat gymnasium, and a swimming pool, but it cannot afford ridiculously simple medical attention for club athletes. It seems that our trustees are perfectly content to let Davidson reap the prestige of having a sports complex that far exceeds our needs while neglecting simple, somewhat necessary services for its students. That sucks.

Sincerely,
David Smyth

Apathy

Dear Editor:

I was not surprised by the editorial concerning apathy in the last issue. I found it quite apropos. I was also appalled that the Union held a campus forum on dating this past Wednesday night. Do people at Davidson have nothing better to discuss? Well, I do. There has been a recent controversy regarding the new Vali-Dine / Cat Card System for obtaining meals. On Friday, I passed through the line at the Union Cafe during breakfast (8 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.) and got a bottle of orange juice. When I returned for lunch at 12:30 p.m., my card was denied. After a few phone calls, I was allowed my lunch when it was determined that I had not consumed all my 14 meals. My card had been decoded. I was told that this happened because it was placed near a microwave oven, or a stereo, or in an eelskin wallet. After a visit to Mr. Carleton Pritchard, the situation was ameliorated. My point is this -- I had a problem and I took care of it. These people in auxiliary/student service want feedback and if they don’t get it, they have no reason to believe that something is wrong. The system here usually works with a little effort on all sides. So the next time you feel the Cat Card system is cheating you or the laundry stiffed you, instead of bitching and complaining, talk to their supervisors. Express your complaints as well as your compliments. That’s what the whole system of student services is here for -- you, the consumer.

Sincerely,
S. Christopher Kelly