Friday, September 9, 1988. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pop Films

Cinematic Smut?

By SCOT MYERS

They had to call it Dirty Dancing just to catch your eye. But what you’re presented with on screen is a whole different story. Rather than the frustrated sexual gyrations of just post-pubescent youths that you’d expect from the misleading title, you get a sensitive (though simplistic) “coming of age” story about a girl in the late sixties.

Baby (played by Jennifer Grey) wants to save the world (through joining the Peace Corps), yet she can’t even save herself from what amounts to little more than a crush on a summer resort’s dance instructor (played by Patrick Swayze). A series of melodramatic, though titillating events, allows both Baby (yes, that’s really her name!) and the viewer to get swept up into this film.

All Baby wants to do is help; and for the best reasons. She’s neither naive nor guilt-ridden. She is genuinely interested in everyone around her. That Patrick Swayze becomes the focus of that attention is due to his real on-screen need and off-screen billing. What’s more, through her interaction with both Swayze and his on-screen dance partner (played by Cynthia Flashdance, Staying Alive, “I can’t believe your leg can go that high!” Rhodes), Grey’s character grows beyond just a concerned girl into a strong, self-sacrificing woman.

The film may seem a bit too shallow for intellectual filmgoers, but for those interested in entertainment, this movie’s got it!

Kenny Ortega’s fab choreography serves only to highlight this “not really a dance movie” dance movie. And, unlike most dance vehicle films (see the aforementioned Cynthia Rhodes movies), Dirty Dancing actually goes to the trouble to give us a legitimate story.

Wonderfully and convincingly played by Jennifer Grey, Baby’s experience becomes an experience that we also have shared. Sometimes sad, sometimes humorous, it’s always genuine. And while Swayze may be a little plastic in his acting, the on-screen fire between these two is palpable. With the addition of good scripting on Eleanor Bergstein’s part and stunning camera work on the part of Dirty Dancing director Emile Ardolino, Vestron’s first major motion picture is just that: major.

Despite the mewlings of the intelligentsia, this is not a film to be missed. A few moments of pure magic is worth all of the melodrama a ninety-minute movie can dish out!

CAL ASKS:

I'M SORRY SIR, ALL LINES ARE BUSY, WILL YOU PLEASE TRY YOUR CALL AGAIN LATER?

RUSK, from page 4

free. People here sometimes have difficulty understanding them. “You have just about the cutest accent I’ve ever heard, but would you mind repeating what you just said, slowly?!” It's even worse at restaurants where the waitress hunts for a menu rather than taking down a verbal order. Then there’s the problem of the heat, humidity and rain. (Not to mention that these Rusk scholars don’t like grits and don’t understand football!)

But their most serious stumbling block must be the local slang and colloquial terminology. “Shag” in the U.S. is simply a dance; in England, it’s slang for fornication. The term “fag” in England refers to a cigarette, not a homosexual. “Bashes” are just parties, and... hold your breath...

DEAD MAN: Douce

CAL AND SNAKE’S

Arts Bits

SHOWS!

The Charlotte Repertory Theatre presents The Nerd this week (Sept. 6-10) in Hodson Hall. Don’t miss this brilliant comedy written by Larry Shue, author of the hit The Foreigner! Call 333-TKTS (8587) for ticket info and show times. Student special: only $5.00!

What can you do for free these days? Check out this cheap date in the 900 Room Friday. West Side Heat, a rhythm ‘n’ blues/rock ‘n’ roll band from Chicago will be performing around 10:00 p.m. Don’t forget your D.C. ID.

EXHIBITS!

Walk over to the Davidson Art Gallery in Chambers between 10 a.m. & 5 p.m. to view selections from the permanent collection of the college. These works will be on display from Sept. 6 - Oct. 6, and the exhibit is free--yet another suggestion for those with small budgets! The 2343-piece show includes works by Rembrandt, Miro, Picasso, and Roger Brown. Russ Warren, associate professor of art, will be the curator for the September show.

CONTESTS!

Music, music, music! Are you a songwriter? Enter the 9th annual Music City Song Festival in any of the five divisions (Amateur Song, Professional Song, Vocal, Lyric, and Lyric Poem). Except for Lyric Poem, each division is further broken down into six musical categories encompassing almost all types of popular music. Over $60,000 in cash & prizes will be awarded. Deadlines are Sept. 30 for Song & Vocal and Oct. 15 for Lyric and Lyric Poetry. Write to MCSF, P.O. Box 17999-S, Nashville, TN 37217 or call (615) 834-0027 for more info & an official entry form. Also, you can write to this address to request a free subscription to MCSF’s magazine SoundMakers.

Playboy is looking for college students! No, not centerfolds--fiction writers. Entries are now being accepted for Playboy's 1989 College Fiction Contest open to all registered undergraduate, graduate, & part-time students. This year’s winners are featured in the October issue, as well as a complete list of contest rules. For more info (if you don’t plan to buy the magazine), write to Bill Paige, Playboy Enterprises, Inc., College Fiction Contest, 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IL 60611.