Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Friday, January 8, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cinema Classics

The Godfather: Coppola’s formula works (for once)

By FRANK LORD

When I think of Francis Ford Coppola, the word “epic” comes immediately to mind. In cinematic terms, the term “epic” has come to be used in relation to films that have a whole host of major stars, tend toward unusual lengths, and cost lots and lots of money to make. Sometimes they even turn a profit. Therefore, it seems the only appropriate word to use to describe the vision of the man who produced such films as Apocalypse Now, The Cotton Club, and this week's offering from the Cinema Classics committee: the first of the two films in the Godfather series. Luckily this particular film is, in my opinion, one of Coppola’s better works.

I would not want to suggest that Apocalypse Now is a bad film. It is not. It is, however, a classic example of the problems that Coppola’s films tend to have. Running for about three hours and costing approximately forty million dollars to make, it does have some of the most amazing footage to come out of Hollywood in quite some time. In fact, the first two hours of the film are particular favorites of mine. Unfortunately, it all begins to fall apart when Martin Sheen meets up with Marlon Brando and Coppola mires us all in his metaphors. In the end, one tends to leave the film with a bit of a bad taste in one’s mouth. This makes it difficult to remember the brilliance of the first two hours.

Put simply, Coppola’s successes have been spotty at best. Most of his “big” films are sprinkled with bits of genius, but they seldom come together to make a satisfying final product. The Godfather films are the exception to this rule. They show us a Coppola whose talents are really working for him and who has not let things get out of his control. In short, the cinematography by Gordon Willis is marvelous; the acting by all involved parties is remarkable; and the editing is excellent.

The Godfather is ostensibly the story of the members of the Corleone family and their business of organized crime. One might expect it to be something of a mafia gangster shoot-’em-up flick. To some extent it is, but it also tells a story of men driven by passion and of the forces which...

---

Understanding P.M.S.

Dear Confidential Health:

I get irritable and tearful several days before my menstrual period. Is this P.M.S.? Can anything be done about this?

-M.B.

Dear M.B.:

P.M.S., or “Premenstrual Syndrome,” refers to a constellation of symptoms many women have during the week before their period. P.M.S. isn’t a disease, but it is a group of problems unique to women in high-stress societies. The symptoms include lethargy, fluid retention, headaches, and irritability. Your symptoms are probably indications of P.M.S.

The body undergoes numerous chemical changes prior to menstruation. Estrogen levels decrease, progesterone levels rise, and glucose metabolism changes. It is thought that some of the behavioral changes may be due to swelling in the brain.

The most commonly used P.M.S. therapy is the administration of vitamin B6, in doses of 50 mg daily. Fluid retention can be minimized by avoiding intake of salt during the last 2 weeks of the cycle. Avoiding the ingestion of simple sugars minimizes the effect of the altered glucose metabolism. Alcoholic drinks should be avoided. Finally, regular exercise improves stress tolerance in general and helps P.M.S. patients.tients. For women who do not respond to these measures, the doctor can prescribe medication to help alleviate the most prominent symptoms. Mild diuretics, anti-anxiety agents, and hormones may be of some use. Though irritability, fatigue, and emotional upset are all seen in P.M.S. patients, these symptoms can signal depression if they last more than a few days. Do not hesitate to seek medical advice if your P.M.S. symptoms seem to last all the time!

Michael Corleone (played by Al Pacino) is the youngest son of the “Godfather” of the Corleone family. He has just come home from World War II, where he was decorated as a war hero. In the beginning, he stays clear of the “family business” -- gambling and unionized labor. Gradually, as a lengthy gang war takes the life of his older brother and nearly kills his father, he moves into the violent surroundings that have been the life of his family.

I was particularly struck by two examples of cross-cutting -- cutting back and forth between two storylines that parallel each other -- which I feel are perfect examples of Coppola’s genius. The first came at the very beginning of the film, during the wedding of Michael’s sister, and the second took place at the very end of the film, as Michael was made the godfather of his sister’s son. In retrospect, the contrast between these sequences makes the shift in Michael Corleone’s personality -- his descent from innocence into corruption -- all too clear.

As an unabashed fan of Marlon Brando, I must say that his performance as the Godfather is stunning. More importantly, Al Pacino does an unusually good job with his role. Each time I see this film I become more and more disappointed with Diane Keaton’s performance, but as her part is not large, her less than wonderful performance does little to damage the film’s integrity. If you are one of those people who has only recently moved in from the hinterlands and has not, therefore, seen The Godfather, I highly recommend it to you. It is one of the few films of which I know that offers something for everyone. That is to say that I think a blood-and-gore freak could get the same amount of enjoyment out of this film as a “cinema highbrow.” (I imagine, however, that the type of enjoyment would be much different for the two individuals.)

The Godfather. Directed by Francis Ford Coppola. Screenplay by Francis Ford Coppola and Mario Puzo. Cinematography by Gordon Willis. Starring Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, and James Caan. Showings on Saturday and Sunday at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Keith Finch