Features

Five days without setting foot on solid land? Davidson Outdoors encounters alligators while sacrificing equipment to Everglades’ murky depths

By MEREDITH GOODING

An element of the unknown. The nine students who signed up for the Davidson Outdoors spring break trip to the Florida Everglades lacked this in their lives. The effects of a grueling winter term were evident on the faces of those who gathered at the first organizational meeting to learn more about this unique opportunity to spend five days canoeing in the backcountry of one of America’s most diverse National Parks. When the group understood that they would not stand on solid land for five days, numerous questions began to emerge. We all wanted to know the answers to basic questions including, “What is a chickee?”, “How will we go to the bathroom?”, and “Will we encounter any alligators?”

The group realized that they were in for an adventure when they met our brave leaders, Stan Hynds from Davidson Outdoors, and Donna Obrecht of the Nantahala Outdoors Center, neither of whom had ever ventured into the backcountry of the Everglades. We departed from Davidson on Saturday morning and drove twenty hours to south Florida. On Sunday the group listened to the last set of instructions and received a crash course on orienteering skills. After careful scrutiny of the tepid water, the overhanging mangrove branches and the unpromising sound of “Hells Bay,” our first destination, Karminder Gill, Bob Dixon, Christy Cook, David McPherson, Meredith Gooding, David McKnight, Amitabh Sonthalia, Leah Millar, and David Dillon entered the canoes and paddled away from civilization.

Although we adapted quickly to the aquatic environment, the hazards of living without solid ground were not fully anticipated. Davidson students donated tent poles, a pair of sunglasses, six spoons, and one cooking stove to the murky depths. The spoons were a big problem. On the last day of our adventure, there were five eating utensils available for eleven ravenous campers. A typical day in the Everglades backcountry began with a delicious breakfast and careful arrangement of the gear in preparation for the long day of canoeing on open bays and tidal rivers. During the day, the wind was always in our faces and inconveniently changed direction without progress. Lunch was a ritual performed on open water that involved careful maneuvering and the ability to stabilize a neighboring canoe with one foot or by securing a piece of rope in one hand, and eat with the other hand. We camped on covered docks or “chickees” and relaxed in the calm of the evening. Each chickee was equipped with a structure that served as an outhouse. The sight of a chickee looming in the distance after a long afternoon provided us with a resurgence of energy.

Three dolphins cavorted near the canoers on different occasions. On our last night, David Dillon sighted a “serious ripple” approaching our chickee. Upon closer scrutiny, it became painfully evident that the “serious ripple” was in fact a persistent alligator. Our alligator slowly circled the chickee several times before vanishing into the shelter of the night. At this moment we realized that we were only intruders in the Everglades. One week later, a mosquito-bitten, sunburned, yet intrepid group of students climbed out of the canoes and stood once again on solid ground. We returned to Davidson with a strong new appreciation for the element of the unknown.

Princess Bride: true love & high adventure

By KATHARINE ARMSTRONG

This is a Once Upon A Time movie, ok? So if you’re looking for heavy symbolism and complex plot lines, stay home and read Beckett. But if you find yourself in the mood for some classic good guy/bad guy happy ending stuff, this is it. Grab your first clue right here: Her name is Buttercup, his name is Westley — even S. Morgenstern couldn’t have meant his “classic tale of true love and high adventure” to be taken too seriously. Believe it or not, for once a movie is actually very similar to its book, at least to the “good parts” version by William Goldman. Goldman (who did the screenplay for Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid as well as The Princess Bride) simply cut Morgenstern’s Florinese etiquette and politics to recreate the adventure story of his childhood. So now we’ve got fencing, fighting, true love, revenge, schemes, magic, a giant, terrible torture, and a happy ending — but we’ve skipped how many hats you should pack to go visiting. Sorry.

There aren’t many big-name actors in the movie. (Yes, we have Billy Crystal as Miracle Max, and yes,

See BRIDE, next page

She gets kidnapped. He gets killed. But it all ends up okay.

PRINCESS BRIDE

Lilly drawings highlight new Design Space display

By JOHN DAVID RAMSEY

The current collection of paintings and drawings on view at Design Space, the new gallery on Main Street, represents a wide variety of styles and abilities. Several artists shown are Davidson students or recent alumni; most of the other artists are local and regional. This kind of concentration is one of the goals set by Nancy Lathan, the owner of Design Space, for her new gallery. In many respects, the highlight of the show is a collection of six drawings by Jerry Lilly. Lilly graduated from Davidson in 1986; whileAs a student, he made a strong impression on many people with his work, which uses vivid, almost fauvist colors and somewhat surrealistic images first to attract and then intrigue the viewer. Those who remember his earlier work (especially from his Senior Show of oil pastels, one of the most successful one-man shows of 1986) will see in these new pictures familiarly Lilly-esque images and colors, but used in a more mature manner, and with greater psychological depth. All of these drawings (four oil pastel, one in mixed media, and one in pencil) were done between his graduation in 1986 and Spring of 1987, when he left for a teaching position in Japan, and show a man in a relaxed state of mind, better able to ponder his art and his future.

“Pagoda Landscape,” with its distinctly Japanese theme, seems to express both the artist’s excitement and insecurity about his upcoming trip, with the full view of the remarkable sunset blocked by a rather hulking pagoda. “Song of Two Relentless Lovers” suggests both the difficulties and the tenderness of a relationship between a man and a woman, while “Noon” is both foreboding, with its strident armed monks, and exciting. “Easter Island” is a tour de force in its medium, exploring the full range of oil pastels’ possibilities while capturing some of the mystical qualities of the strange island whence comes its name. “Tete de Femme,” the latest work in the show, is reminiscent of the “Gibson Girl” of the 1890s, a recurring image in Lilly’s work, here presented more as suggestion than representation. Lilly also has a remarkable ability to bring the viewer into his picture, by the way he composes them, often with some large object in the foreground, through or around which the viewer must make his way into the picture. His work becomes more remarkable as one studies it more carefully — much is to be found there.

Jo Morgan is perhaps the best-known artist represented at Design Space. Her woven hangings and rugs are admired throughout the region, and she does a great deal of commission work. She also recently opened a studio and shop on Main Street, called the Weaver’s Studio (which is itself beautifully designed, showing a restraint and simplicity that reveals what ‘elegant’ can mean). Morgan has two pieces at Design Space, a diptych in black and white; they are of the same design, but the tones are reversed in each. Texture is essential, of course, to a woven hanging, and the simple pattern which Morgan has used allows the texture of the yarn to play its full part in the work, without becoming the main impact of the piece. Her colored pieces are stunning, especially in her use of blues and violets, but in this two-toned piece her fine grasp of design is used to full effect.

Rachel Nation, a freshman at Davidson, has a group of photographs on display, taken in her native Houston. Most of them are of derelict buildings and run-down stores which are covered with graffiti. This, however, is not typical bathroom graffiti of dirty jokes and obscene pictures, but rather political — the politics both of the United States and South America, in English and in Spanish. Some very strong feelings are expressed, reminding the viewer that politics are more than an idealistic university pursuit. For the people who spray-paint their messages on the walls, ‘politics’ are a matter of whether they live or die. Of course, we see this sort of graffiti all the time, if not on the walls of Chambers, then on the news and in the papers. We seldom even notice. Nation somehow manages, with these stark black and white pictures, to remind the viewer that the graffiti is more than mere defacement. Most of the pictures have no people in them, but the personalities and beliefs of many people are forceful presences in the photographs — as they are in the city itself. There is a passion involved in what these people with spray cans do, and Nation captures that passion, stripped down in its barren environment.

A number of other artists have a variety of works on view. Donna Freshwater, a former commercial artist, has a series of remarkably delicate drawings in pencil, having the quality almost of air-brush work. Her subjects are rabbits and fish, among other things, but she successfully downplays the cuteness intrinsic to these subjects. Ted Edwards has a series of beautifully carved bowls made of various rare woods; simple in the extreme, the bowls allow the unique wood grains to be foremost. The bowls must be touched to be fully appreciated. A variety of watercolors and acrylics in a more traditional vein are also on view.

Design Space is a welcome presence in Davidson, joining Natural Resources and The Frame Gallery in an effort to present original art in every style to the public. Compared even to five years ago, the visual arts are burgeoning in the town of Davidson. Nancy Lathan is taking a somewhat experimental approach with Design Space. Hopefully, the gallery will continue a trend towards more contemporary and experimental work. Perhaps someday Davidson may even have its own version of Charlotte’s popular Gallery Crawl.