8

Wednesday, April 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dry rush: another ridiculous idea

By BILL SCOUTEN

With fluff, triteness, and diatribe, I return to uncover yet another ridiculous idea in the making.

Dry-rush.

Let’s think about it for a moment.

What does this concept entail? Is it workable? I think not. In fact, the notion may be a ludicrous one given the “self-selection” system of Davidson.

Davidson distinguishes itself from other colleges and universities, refusing to acknowledge the Greek system of bid-giving. Self-selection precludes the notion of “rush.” The distinction of Davidson’s “non-rush” status, however, is another area to be illumined.

Overlooking the minor semantic difficulty of “rush,” one may define the rush period of Davidson as an extended period of approximately ten weeks of which the first four see no freshmen on Patterson Court.

During the first four weeks, despite the administrative desire, rush undeniably occurs.

Rush is a personal interaction between members of houses and freshmen during the first four weeks of fall term. Such interaction takes place on the hall, at Union events, during flickerball tourneys, etc. In such environments, the idea of alcohol may or may not exist. Usually, though, hall visitations and flickerball games do not involve any sort of alcohol-related activity.

Thus, the early weeks of school see many forms of student interactions that do not involve alcohol. Of course, this is not to say that students do not drink during the first few weeks of the term—certainly this is naivete! However, it is not wrong to say that the personal communication of upperclassmen and freshmen provides a bond of friendship.

Rushing is not complete without the party—a time for many to come together and enjoy one another’s company. Certainly, parties help to sway many to or away from one’s house. But, as one who has gone through the rushing process, I feel qualified in saying that men and women choose to join a house not for its alcohol, but for its people.

The human dimension of the choice to join a house may, in fact, be basic enough to undermine any dry-rush advocate’s argument. A final idea, however, which relates to the former is the notion of alcohol as a “rush-tool.”

Alcohol is not used as a “rush-tool,” per se but is used to facilitate enjoyment. If one does not wish to drink, he need not. No one is forced to drink—and, if peer pressure is the villain that scares you, I suggest that it be overcome. In many ways, then, alcohol helps one to develop an identity, strengthen a person by allowing him to say “No,” by allowing him to learn to control his inhibitions. Alcohol may be an evil, but evil must be confronted and controlled, not ignored.

The idea of dry-rush, therefore, may simply be a fabrication of fluff and triteness designed to distinguish Davidson College from other schools, simply a tape and plaster job covering a policy gone bad.

UNITED CAROLINA BANK

Downtown Davidson
MON.-THURS. 9-5
FRIDAY 9-6

IT PAYS TO GRADUATE

Congratulations Seniors! General Motors provides the kind of graduation present you've always dreamed of and GMAC Financial Services will guarantee the financing—how?

We'll even provide $2000 in Tuition Assistance drawings along with free hot dogs and refreshments. Present this flyer for free admission to the Sports Club of America Time Trials.

General Motors College Graduate Expo '88
Charlotte Motor Speedway

Friday April 15, 12:00 PM - 6:00 PM
Saturday April 16, 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM

For further details contact your neighborhood Pontiac-Oldsmobile-GMC Truck

Buick and GMC Truck Dealer—See you in your dreams!

Cutlass Supreme International Series