Restaurant reviews! Page 3
The Davidsonian
Volume LXXX, Number 6
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, October 7, 1988

Rankings: How they ranked

National liberal arts colleges, according to the 1988 U.S. News & World Report

Davidson 20th in nation

By TRIPP HELMS

Davidson College ranks twentieth in the category of National Liberal Arts Colleges, according to the 1988 U.S. News and World
Report guide to “America’s Best Colleges.”

Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania is at the top of the list, with Amherst, Williams, and Wellesley, all in Massachusetts, in
the next three places. The only other southern school ranked is Washington and Lee of Virginia, which is in twenty-third
place.

In addition to objective statistical data, college presidents, academic deans, and admissions directors were surveyed in order to prepare the
rankings. The 141 schools in this category are considered the most selective liberal arts colleges in the country by the
Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The Foundation classifies schools on the basis of the level of academic degrees
offered, the kinds of academic programs offered, and enrollment.

In 1987, Davidson was ranked fifteenth among the nation’s liberal arts colleges.

The best national university in the country is Yale, according to the guide. It is followed by Princeton, California Institute
of Technology, Harvard, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Stanford University dropped from its number one ranking in 1987 to number
six in this year’s report.

Wake Forest University was ranked first in the category of Comprehensive Colleges and Universities, a category which the Carnegie endowment
defines as schools enrolling more than 2,500 students and awarding more than half of their bachelor's degrees in two or
more occupational or professional disciplines.

Storm damages college’s lake campus boat house
$25,000 insurance deductible leaves college, boats uncovered

By DAVID BEARCE

The huge boathouse on Lake Norman atthe Davidson College Lake Campus boathouse blew off its pilings on Saturday, September 24.
Some shingles were torn off, but the basic structure was undamaged. As a result, the boathouse was loose from the
bank. Fortunately, the boathouse survived the first $25,000 of damage, and the insurance company covers the rest. Davidson College has
a $25,000 deductible insurance policy on the boathouse, said Assistant Athletic Director Sterling Martin.

Martin estimated that the waves were about five feet high, accompanied by lightning and wind. He also guessed that there
could have been a small tornado due to the pattern of the damage. The boathouse was built in 1963 and
was privately owned until it was acquired by Davidson College a couple of years ago. Martin described it as an
extremely well-built structure.

The boathouse was held in place by eight pilings on either side. The wind and the waves probably worked together
to lift it off of the brackets on one side. Then the force of the wind broke the pilings on
either side, according to Martin.

Martin expressed some concern that the pilings had not been laid deep enough. They had been moved by a previous
storm. Martin stated that a little extra concern had been taken when the boathouse was brought to Davidson to safeguard
it against storms.

The boats that were inside the boathouse stayed in and floated to the shore with the house. However, the fate
of the boats in and around the boathouse is less clear. The 420s that had been on the dock around
the boathouse were blown off. There was some damage to all these boats, but Martin described it as relatively minor.
There was some hull damage and two masts were lost.

Unfortunately, there may be some problems in getting the damage repaired. Martin reported that the insurance adjustors looked at the
damage. This means that Davidson must pay the $100 deductible insurance policy, said Martin.

But a Glasstron boat did sink during the storm. It has since been recovered, and the engine is now running.
Martin pronounced it salvageable.

Davidson College has a $25,000 deductible insurance policy on the boathouse.
