Monday, April 4, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN, Charlotte

Flix

Ford excels as Frantic doctor but Quaid and Fuller are DOA  
By BRUCE PLOURDE

I know what you’re thinking. “Oh great! Another Harrison Ford movie. Just what I and the entire civilized world have been waiting for.” Harrison Ford, like many other actors, has lost the initial freshness and charm which made his roles in Star Wars and Witness stand out in sublimity. His gestures, in the main, have become hackneyed; that sarcastic curling of the right half of his lip, for instance, and that faraway, Thoreauvian look of quiet desperation. Frantic, Ford’s latest film, gives him a chance to re-enact all his favorite poses and facial contortions which, having launched, seem now to be giving berth to his career.

But Frantic offers more than Harrison Ford’s tried and trite ability. The director, Roman Polanski, has given Ford a chance to play a character who is by and large an average American put into an explosive situation. Although at first the audience must deal with the burden of Ford’s past as a portrayer of hero types, the plausibility of his role improves as the tale progresses.

Ford plays a surgeon, Dr. Walker, who travels to Paris with his wife Sondra (Betty Buckley) to read a paper before a medical convention and, in the meantime, enjoy the possibilities offered by the City of Lights. When Sondra seeks to change her clothes she finds she cannot open her suitcase, and they soon discover that she has taken someone else’s. Dr. Walker calls the airport to rectify their mistake, and then takes a shower in an attempt to shake off his jet lag. While in the shower his wife receives a phone call and steps out of the room. Walker prepares for their meal in bed while awaiting her return. But she never returns, and thus begins Walker’s odyssey to find his wife. Mysterious occurrences lead him on a trail of intrigue and violence. His path leads him to all the places tourists miss, for some reason or other. He encounters all sorts of colorful characters from the underground of Paris. In particular, he takes special pains to introduce himself to Michelle (Emmanuelle Seigner), the sweet little French girl whose suitcase bears a marked resemblance to his wife’s.

In all honesty those adjectives don’t properly fit Michelle. Yes, she is petite, but douce, non, pas du tout. This girl represents her country well in that she is beautiful, amoral and egotistic. She would fit well into the silhouette of a brick outhouse. One would expect that, like in Fatal Attraction, such a sensuous woman would entice the husband to temptation. But Walker remains resolutely loyal to his wife, haggard as she looks, and becomes attached to Michelle only so far as she can help him bring his lady to liberty.

Polanski has done his homework well, and succeeds in approximating Alfred Hitchcock’s style. The very title, Frantic, suggests something Hitchcockian, akin to Psycho, Frenzy and Vertigo. Polanski, like Hitchcock, has total control of the set and the perspective. He also reveals the story as that rotund master of mystery might. Although one does not consider murder mystery the genre of Polanski, here he succeeds in flattering another great director by imitation. Also, in the Hitchcock connection, whereas one film critic has called Harrison Ford the new Humphrey Bogart, I would suggest that Polanski has made him the new James Stewart.

The film’s only shortcoming resembles Michael Douglas’ character problems in Fatal Attraction, i.e., Walker’s unswerving fidelity to his wife. Michael Douglas has no reason for the liaison between himself and Glenn Close because he is married to a very lovely and sensuous woman. By indulging in his weekend fling, he denies himself the audience’s sympathy and affection. Having just seen such a film, the audience might very well anticipate such an encounter to occur between the gaunt, handsome Walker and the sultry, erotic Michelle. But it never happens. Part of Walker’s strength is his adherence to old ideals while all around him languish in corruption and vice. Despite the beauty and willingness of his young acquaintance, the good doctor remains steadfastly loyal to his dear, albeit homely, wife of twenty years.

Polanski deserves a big ‘bravo’ for bringing such talent to such a good project as Frantic. I give him an unreserved “A” for his study of an American in Paris.

DOA stars Dennis QuaidAs a college English professor in an out-of-whack “publish or perish” dilemma that would surely put Dr. Engell at ease. A string of murders occurs, involving one of his brightest students, his wife, and himself. He must find his murderer in the twenty-four hours before his impending death, which, in the movie, seems to drag through that entire twenty-four hours. Some tension arises in the fight scenes, during which Dexter Cornell (Quaid), who has felt dead for the past four years but now, on the edge of death, feels rejuvenated, has to confront murderers such as the very butch butler Bernard or the invisible nail-shooting maniac. But, in comparison to Frantic, this movie, through its dragged-out explorations of potential solutions, offers very little in the way of suspense.

But wait: there is another star in the movie. Meg Ryan plays Sydney Fuller, a college freshman with an ivy-league crush on her favorite professor. Sydney Fuller is more than just the love interest in the story, though: she is the archetypal coed, the quintessence of college life, a role model for freshmen girls everywhere. What more could a college girl ask out of life than blonde hair, a cute body, an innocent face, and a complete set of hormones? The dumb blonde of yore has not gone the way of the dinosaurs, she has only changed her locale from gin joints to campus dormitories.

Before he is poisoned, Sydney thinks of Professor Cornell as a nice guy, somebody with whom she would like to share free love. But even in his drunken state, she can’t convince him that what he needs is some good rough premarital sex. After he is poisoned, however, they become inseparable. She can’t keep up with him, and so tells him as much as “Thanks for the date” but “Drop dead.” Full well knowing that he will die within hours, she can’t bear to be with him. So they part company, and, to console herself, she puts on a new dress and goes to the Christmas festival.

Fortunately, Davidson girls are not like this girl at all. They break the stereotypical mold. Every girl who is in the Pre-Wed program knows, after all, that all that premarital stuff is a no-no. They don’t need to give their bodily pleasures to suitors, after all, because they have more than a modicum of grace, charm, and, most of all, sincerity. In other words, Davidson girls are like frozen yogurt: cultured and frigid.

So Davidson girls might get a kick out of seeing the other side of the street in DOA. People with a morbid sense of humor might get a yuk out of the many death and dying jokes. For all others, DOA is just too played-out and unsuspenseful to appreciate.

HEALTH, from page 4

Should it be determined that herpes poses a risk to your baby, delivery by caesarean section may be recommended.

7. (b) Although theoretically there are other possibilities, the experts strongly believe that the only way to contract herpes is through sexual relations with an individual who has active lesions. Some individuals may not be aware that they have active lesions.

8. (b) Condoms do not offer total protection against either transmitting or contracting herpes. Men and women with active lesions should abstain from sexual activity.

9. (e) No one knows exactly what triggers recurrent outbreaks. But all the factors listed may play a role. Tight clothing, for example, can cause heavy friction and irritation to the genital area. In addition, physical conditions such as poor nutrition, cold or other respiratory infections are associated with recurrences. In some cases, episodes appear to be unrelated to any trigger event.

10. (b) False. Herpes does not lead directly to any of these sexually transmitted diseases. However, the risk of multiple infections increases with increasing numbers of sexual partners.

Please send your questions and comments to:
Confidential Health
Davidson College Infirmary
Davidson, NC

LONDON
* Art/Architecture
* Business/Economics
* Engineering
* Human/Health Services
* Journalism/Communications
* Visual/Performing Arts
* Politics

WASHINGTON
* Politics
* Business/Economics
* Pre-Law
* International Relations
* Journalism/Communications
* Health Fields
* The Arts
* Specialty individualized

Participants must have junior or senior status; 3.0/4.0 GPA.

BOSTON UNIVERSITY
All programs include 16 semester-hour credits, full-time internships, centrally located apartments, for virtually every academic interest.
(617) 353-9888

ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
ZIP
PHONE( )

WASHINGTON REPRESENTATIVE ON CAMPUS
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6 AT 11:00 AM
IN THE MORRISON ROOM OF THE COLLEGE UNION