New faculty! pages 4-7

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 3

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, September 15, 1988

Numbers, numbers, numbers!

Class of 1992: diverse and bright

By JOANNE MAHERAS

This year’s freshman class is composed of 376 students, 58% of which are male and 42% female. The enrollment ratio closely parallels that of most colleges and universities that were once all-male institutions.

The geographic distribution of the freshman class is more diverse this year. There are more international students—a student is here from Kenya, and Davidson has its first black South African student. Nationally, the distribution among the regional sections is more spread out than in previous years; there are freshmen from as far away as Maine, Oregon, and Hawaii.

The class of '92 exemplifies the high quality of admissions standards at Davidson College, according to Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Robert Gardner. The class consists of more than 50 valedictorians, the median class rank is 5, the average SAT is 1240, and class members have shown a strong commitment to service, leadership, the church, and sports in their pre-college years.

Gardner feels that this class has made it evident that more and more people are getting the message that Davidson is a great institution. Davidson did very well against the Ivy League; more students from this class than those of previous classes chose Davidson over an Ivy League school.

Last year, Davidson had the largest number of applicants it has ever had, and it was the first choice for most.

The freshman class has some very creative students. Ann Battle of Charleston, West Virginia, displayed her creativity when she submitted slides of porcelain dolls which she had made as part of her application.

There are some very good artists in the class. One student’s artwork was bought by his high school and is now part of the permanent collection at the school.

The freshman class is strong in the area of performing arts. Gardner feels that the freshman class will help “form a nucleus in the performing area at Davidson.”

The students have participated in many diverse activities. Brennan Guth, a freshman from Missoula, Montana, was a backcountry ranger at Great Smokey Mountain National Park last year, and he spent his summer teaching canoeing and kayaking in Sweden. Brennan felt that the year he took off has given him a better perspective of what he wants out of college.

Freshman Buck Reese from Amarillo, Texas, seems to express the general consensus among the freshmen that although their class is very diverse, “the class has a closeness that you could not find at a big school.”

Stephen Wegulo, the freshman from Kenya, feels that “this year’s freshman class consists of friendly, charming, and enthusiastic youths who are keen at all aspects of life at Davidson: academics, social life, and games. My impression is that it is a good freshman class.”

Campus crime remains problem

By PETER MANGONE

Although crime on the Davidson College campus is down this year compared to the same period last year, it still remains a serious problem, especially for the students. According to Davidson College Public Safety Director Jackie Hughes, there have been ten larcenies reported in the first three weeks of school as well as two incidents of auto vandalism.

In almost every larceny case, billfolds and pocketbooks have been stolen from students’ dormitory rooms.

However, a gold chain was stolen from a Duke dormitory room a few hours before the football game last Saturday.

Hughes also reported that in all but a couple of the robberies, “there have been two or three black teenage males, ages 13 to 16, seen in the vicinity near the time of the crime.”

Although these individuals have been sighted several times in the dormitories, Hughes says no one is calling the police to report them until after the crime has occurred. Since the campus police cannot be everywhere at once, he asks students to please report any suspicious people in the dormitories.

In addition to not reporting strangers, Hughes points out that students are making themselves vulnerable to crime by leaving their doors unlocked and valuables laying out in the open. These actions only make it easier for those who wish to steal something.

Hughes urges students, as he does every year, to lock their doors when they leave the room, especially on the weekends when most of the robberies have occurred.

He emphasizes that it is the students who can best prevent crime on campus. Locking the door and reporting strangers are simple tasks that every student can do that will help the campus police and curb the incidence of crime on the Davidson campus.

The band “West Side Heat” from Chicago rocked the 900 Room on September 9.

Photo by Alex Hayden

News: Former English professor John Engell gets off a parting shot in Davidson Update. Page 3

Features: Film reviews! Pop Film: The Untouchables Cinema Classic: East of Eden Page 4

Sports: Field hockey! Lady Cats slaughter Salem 11-0 Page 9

Opinions: Party, party, party! The Davidson Disease. Page 11