Friday, October 7, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Care throughout the year.

Thalheimer’s, Cashion’s receipts worth money to Day Care

Thalheimer’s department store at Southpark Mall in Charlotte has agreed to contribute 2% of the total value of receipts turned in to them by the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center to the center’s operating fund. The receipts must be from purchases made during the month of October. Cashion’s in Cornelius sponsors a similar program. The Day Care receives 1% of the amount of each receipt from Cashion’s that is collected. This program runs throughout the year. Receipts for either program are being collected by Professor Gail Gibson or may be turned in at the day care center.

Operator access and long distance lines added to ESSX

Director of Administrative Services Bob Stephenson announced that a deal has been made with Southern Bell to offer students operator access and more long distance lines. Operator access will enable students to make credit card and collect calls. The number of outgoing long distance lines will be increased from 24 to 48 with the purchase of a new circuit. Many students have not been able to make long distance calls during peak hours because of the insufficient number of lines, and Stephenson expects the new circuit to alleviate this problem. According to Stephenson, these changes will be in effect by no later than November 1.

Davidson College presents lecturer and columnist Ellen Goodman

Boston Globe and Newsweek columnist Ellen Goodman is scheduled to present “A Matter of Values” on October 24 as Davidson College’s 1988 Reynolds Lecturer. The lecture will be held in Love Auditorium in the Chambers Building at 8:00 PM. Sponsored by the Public Lectures Committee, the event is free. Goodman, perhaps best known for her Newsweek “At Large” column, is able to “follow like a scorekeeper, the conflicts and ambivalences of our society.” She has written a book on social change called Turning Point, and many of her columns have been published in collections entitled Close to Home and At Large.

Beyond Davidson: National issues

By ED POWELL

Shuttle

On Monday, at 12:37 p.m. EDT, the spaceship Discovery and its 5-man crew safely touched down on a 7.5-mile runway at Edwards Air Force Base in California, ending the long-awaited return of NASA’s space shuttle program. On Thursday morning, 32 months after the Challenger disaster and on the exact same launch pad, the Discovery blasted off from Cape Canaveral, Florida at 11:37 a.m. Except for the late departure, approximately an hour and a half behind the scheduled 9:59 a.m. liftoff, the space shuttle went through its flight error-free. The flight, which cost an estimated 1.6 million dollars, is the first in a line that will hopefully reestablish the credibility of NASA and the United States space program. The next shuttle flight, that of the spaceship Atlantis, is targeted for November 17, at which time a secret Defense Department payload will be carried into orbit.

Handguns

On Monday, a gunman opened fire on elementary school children in Mascotte, Florida. Monday’s incident was the third of its kind after last week’s horrible shooting spree in Greenwood, South Carolina and a similar episode last year in a suburb of Chicago. An unidentified gunman, dressed in fatigues, fired three shots at an outside gym class, seriously injuring one girl, before quickly disappearing into the surrounding woods. Despite an exhaustive search by the police, both in the air and on the ground, the gunman still remains at large. In another incident involving firearms, syndicated columnist Carl Rowan, who was facing charges of illegal possession of a handgun, had his case declared a mistrial after the jury became deadlocked at 9-3 in favor of acquittal. A status hearing has been reset for October 13.

Drugs

In what has been termed by some as “Thinking the Unthinkable,” a hearing on the legalization of illicit drugs was last week held before the House Select Committee on Narcotics. This radical approach to our nation’s growing drug problem, led by Baltimore mayor Kurt Schmoke, came to national attention last April after Schmoke first presented this as a realistic solution to the drug problem. Mayor Schmoke, a Rhodes Scholar and former prosecutor who convicted thousands of drug offenders, said that our nation’s current “war on drugs” is ineffective.He suggested that we move towards decriminalization of controlled substances, allowing the war on drugs to be waged by “the surgeon general, not the attorney general.”

Politics

The League of Women Voters has withdrawn their name as the sponsor of the second presidential debate between Michael Dukakis and George Bush. League President, Nancy Neuman, said that the League did not want to be associated with debates in which both candidates avoided taking definite positions on controversial subjects or tackling any hard issues.

In his biggest test since the disclosure of his enrollment in the Indiana National Guard, G.O.P nominee Dan Quayle faced Democratic nominee Lloyd Bentsen in a debate of the two vice-presidential hopefuls Wednesday night.

On the traditional first Monday of October, the Supreme Court reopened its doors for a new session with a court that has a more conservative tilt than the last one. This has generated some apprehension in the legal community as many decisions that protect an individual’s civil liberties may be reinterpreted or perhaps overturned by the new Court. However, in one of its first moves, the Court refused to release North Carolina officials from their obligation to provide lawyers for inmates who need help with legal documents. The Court decided that the state should continue to shoulder this responsibility and rejected the N.C. appeal without comment.

Beyond Davidson: International Issues

Shakeup at the Kremlin
By BETH DRUMMOND and CAROL GATEWOOD

MOSCOW: Dominating headlines in the world news this week was Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev’s major realignment of the Communist Party. On Friday, the Party Central Committee dismissed three veteran members and accepted the retirement of titular president Andrei Gromyko from the ruling Politburo. Other senior officials such as No. 2 party leader Yegor Ligachev found themselves significantly stripped of party influence. This radical move allowed Gorbachev to consolidate his leadership of the Soviet Union by taking over the presidency, making himself both head of state and chief of the Communist Party.

Gorbachev has already announced plans to increase the power of the presidency, as part of a policy of making the government function more independently of the party. There is widespread speculation over why Gorbachev moved so quickly to carry out the reorganization plan called for in a special meeting of the Party last June, but there is little doubt that he achieved an important breakthrough in the consolidation of his power as leader of the Soviet Union.

SANTIAGO: There were many public demonstrations in Chile last week both for and against the re-election of military President Augusto Pinochet. Tens of thousands of Pinochet supporters jammed the streets in the capital city Sunday in a mass display of support for the Pinochet regime. The 16-party opposition coalition, which draws support from the middle and working class, staged rallies that were equally as large. If a majority vote in favor of Pinochet, he will begin an 8-year term in March; if Pinochet is defeated, open presidential elections will be held late next year. Many sources are skeptical about Pinochet’s willingness to step down if he is defeated. Pinochet has controlled Chile since a military-backed coup in 1973 ousted the leftist government of Salvador Allende.

U.S./CANADA: Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney on Saturday dissolved Parliament and announced elections on Nov. 21 in a bid to keep alive the U.S./Canadian free trade agreement. The main opposition to the Mulroney’s Progressive Conservative government comes from Liberals and the socialist New Democratic Party who oppose the free trade act, arguing that it would destroy Canada’s sovereignty. The agreement has passed the Canadian House of Commons but it is unlikely to pass the liberal-dominated Senate. If Mulroney wins, the world’s two largest trading partners will proceed with plans to create a free trade zone, eliminating tariffs and other trade barriers over the next 10 years.

Can We Help?
- relationships
- cross-cultural counseling
- weight control
- career counseling
- alcohol & drug abuse
- study skills
- time management
- stress management
- sexuality
- family issues

Student Counseling Center
08 Union Basement
Ext. 2451

Amelia Dockery, Ph.D.
Tom Plott, Ph.D.
Virginia Sykes, M.Ed.
Christine Davidson, Secretary
Campbell Peery, M.A.
David Staton, Ph.D.
DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.