8 Tharsis). September 22, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN (re me x)

Fun facts! The Planetarium Society is calling all planetariums, astronomy groups, schools, & individuals to look to the sky and
to hold Mars Watch parties & events. On Sept. 22, Mars will be closer to Earth than it has been
in 17 years or will be again until 2003. You can use this date as a good excuse to coax
your lover to lie under the stars with you, or you can contact the Planetary Society for more info: 65
North Carolina Ave., Pasadena, CA 91106. (800) 255-2001 or (800) 793-5100.

25,000 paper Wipkibs and 15,000 aluminum cans -- that’s the estimated amount used per week by Davidson students, according to
a study led by Dr. Sweetser and computed by Chris Henderson. Students in Anthropology 101 participated in this project designed
to study “energy and resources.” Each student kept a diary of all materials used, and specific figures were analyzed by
37 to arrive at the above figures. That means 25,000 x 4 in a month x 12 in a year.
Any takers?

Shows! Don’t waste any more time! Buy your season tickets now for the Artists Series. Check at the Union desk
or contact Trina Janiec (Rich 010, -6424) to purchase a student ticket for only $8 (the usual price for a
single show admission!). The first performance will be Macbeth presented by the NC Shakespeare Festival on Wednesday, Sept. 28.

Josh White Jr.’s back! If you haven’t heard this legendary folk-blues musician, don’t miss your chance Saturday, Sept. 24 at
8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Josh, Jr. has played Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center, Broadway, countless folk and jazz festivals,
and on numerous occasions, Davidson College. If you get your act together and pick up advanced tickets at any Union
events this week or at the Union ticket office (2-5 p.m.), the show is free! Tickets will cost $2 at
the door, so don’t delay.

Contests! Here it is -- your opportunity of a lifetime. If you're female, 19-23 years old, at least 5’5" tall,
and have never been married, you might be chosen as the 1989 Maid of Cotton. As such, you could win
a $10,000 educational award, six months of international travel, a fashionable all-cotton wardrobe, personal meetings with ambassadors and top government
officials all over the world, and courtesy calls to senators and congressmen. The National Cotton Council (NCC), sponsor of the
program, is now accepting applications. Write to: NCC, P.O. Box 12285, Memphis, TN 38182. Deadline is Nov. 18. Headquarters this
year are in Dallas, and the lucky woman who wins will make her first national appearance at the Cotton Bowl
on Jan. 2.

Tonight, Sept. 22, ace historian William Leuchtenburg will speak on “FDR: His Presidency and His Legacy.” Plan to be at
the 900 Room again this week at 7:30 (a double date?). Again, admission won’t cost you anything, since the Kelley
program, in honor of Kendrick W. Kelley, ’63, is sponsoring the event. Come hear the man who many scholars consider
“the leading historian of 20th-century America.”

...for the title and coming up with creative fundraising/publicity ideas. Contact...Tyler Jo Chaos Smith, Business Manager (6297), Kevin Arnold Dunn,
Personnel Manager (6414), or Frank Knightmare Lord, Music Director (6351) for info. Compiled by ace Finish.

Get out your pens and start writing.

HEALTH, from page 5

Defense mechanism your body uses to eliminate toxins. Marijuana suppresses this defense mechanism and the alcohol continues to be absorbed
into the bloodstream. Your liver is doing its best to keep you from poisoning yourself, but it can do so
at only a half-ounce of alcohol per hour. The rest is up to you.

Dear Confidential Health,

Does drinking really interfere with studying?

Yes, it appears to counteract the hard work and long hours you may have put in. Alcohol interferes with the
manufacture of protein in the brain. This may affect memory, which is an important factor in learning. In addition, some
researchers believe that blackouts may be an extreme example of short-term memory loss. An example of a blackout follows: the
last thing you remember is that you were at a party and now you find yourself in a stranger’s driveway
in your car. You don’t remember driving there, but the scary fact is that you did manage to drive. Your
short-term memory was temporarily lost.

State-dependent learning can also occur with alcohol. If you have a long-term association of drinking alcohol while studying, this may
lead to the need for the same alcohol high in order to feel like you can recall the information during
an exam. Despite the initial effect of stimulation, alcohol may give you, it actually is a depressant and can lead
to reduced motivation.

It seems clear that if your goal is to learn and memorize information, then alcohol is not the beverage of
choice.

Send your comments and questions to: Confidential Health, The Davidson College Infirmary, Davidson, NC 28036.

Get As and Bs!

Options Page Type Times Shades

Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Sony Discman is a trademark of Sony Corporation.
No purchase necessary. See our terms and conditions.

Try a Macintosh today. We have an idea that'll make both you and your parents feel a bit more confident
come finals time: land a CDK. Now that a new school year is under way, we have an amazing new
program called HyperCard—which happens to come packaged with every Macintosh. You can easily store, organize, and cross-reference research notes to
your heart’s content.

Get a Macintosh computer to help with your homework. Then you'll never have to spend another all-nighter retyping a paper
just to purge a few typos and dangling modifiers. You'll be able to crank out assignments that look as though
you bribed a friend in art school.
