Sports

Green’s 31 points propel UT-C to 83-77 win

By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

Once again, life on the road was tough for Davidson as the Wildcats picked up the third of their four
losses away from the friendly confines of Johnston Gym. The Moccasins got out of the blocks with an 8-0 lead.
Davidson countered with an 11-2 spurt which gave the Cats an 11-10 advantage. The first half was nip and tuck
until 10 minutes left when the Moccasins began to widen their lead. With 7:47 left in the half, the Mocs
led 24-16. Senior Derek Rucker’s 8 points late in the half pulled Davidson to a 35-34 lead at halftime.

The first half was dominated by Rucker and Green, two of the top four scorers in the conference, who scored
14 points each. Best supporting cast went to Darren Chandler with 9 points for the Moccasins and Jeff Himes, 8
points for the Wildcats. Davidson got the early upper hand in the second half and led 45-39 on a layup
by Gray with 15 minutes left. The Moccasins caught up with the help of Green and Lance Fulse. The outcome
of the game was up for grabs until Alan Hunter left with his third foul with 9 minutes left and
Chattanooga ahead 60-57. The Moccasins quickly built up an eight-point lead and gained momentum when Hunter fouled out. Chattanooga finally
prevailed 83-77.

Davidson was led by Rucker with 26 points including 3 three-pointers, Himes had 15, Gray had 11 including 2 three-pointers,
and Hunter chipped in 10 points. Large factors in the Moccasins' win were 60% shooting from the field to 52%
for Davidson and a 35-25 rebounding advantage. Pacing the way for UT-Chattanooga were Green with 31 points including 3 three-pointers
and 8 assists. The Moccasin frontline dominated: Fulse had 15 points and 9 rebounds, Derek Chandler had 13 and 8
rebounds, and Shendi Moon had 10 points and 11 rebounds. Morris Lyons had a fine all-around game with 9 points,
4 assists, 2 blocked shots, and 2 steals.

Davidson’s next game is Senior Day, Thursday, February 18, at home against Furman, the last home game before spring break.

Wildcat wrestlers to end tough, injury-plagued season

By HOLME OLTROGGE

After being out for the past few weeks due to a shoulder injury, Dylan Glenn came back to lead the
Wildcat wrestlers against Appalachian State and Ferrum last night. Wrestling at 142 pounds, Glenn started strongly against his ASU opponent,
recovering from potential trouble to take his man down. However, Glenn’s stamina failed him in the third period as he
lost 4-10. Glenn again wrestled in the last match of the evening against ASU, this time at 134 pounds where
he will certify for the Southern Conference. At his regular weight class, Glenn dominated his opponent with takedowns and near
falls. Only a pin eluded Glenn’s grasp as he won 13-6.

However, the other Davidson wrestlers did not have much success. Holt Foster (158 lbs.) and Aengus Channon (190 lbs.) both
fell to the same move, the cradle, from which they could not escape. Foster, though, did put up a tremendous
fight, succumbing with 15 seconds left in the whole match. Tim Heinze again cut down to a tremendous 167 pounds
from 177, and subsequently gassed out. He was controlled most of the time and lost mainly toHere is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Near fall tilts. Howard Humphries (Heavyweight) fared a little better against his oversized opponent. He tied 4-4. With one regular
season match left, perhaps it is time to re-evaluate the team. For most of the year, the Wildcats had been
wrestling with at least four forfeits, starting 24 points down against the opposing teams. Most of the gaps in Davidson’s
line-up are due to the injuries that have plagued the team since the beginning of the year. At 118 pounds,
Holme Oltrogge has been out for the season. No one presently occupies the 126-pound weight class (and no one ever
will this season). Glenn has been out at 134 pounds, and Foster only just returned to his spot at 150
pounds. And Matt McConnell still has shoulder troubles. Additional random injuries have prevented the squad from gaining its strength all
year long. Last Saturday, Joe Binns twisted his ankle in his match against Washington & Lee, while Sherb Sentell stretched
some ligaments in his neck. Chris Hargrove had his arm in a sling, nursing a sore shoulder. That left four
semi-healthy wrestlers. Four athletes cannot make a team. It became difficult to practice wrestling moves when there were no partners
with whom to practice. Lack of performance naturally followed lack of practice. Worst of all, spirit and morale dropped as
losses piled up, and there seemed to be no way out. People wondered what had happened to the wrestling team
(or maybe people did not wonder at all). One thing led to another and now the wrestling team must dig
itself out of a big hole two weeks before the Southern Conference tournament, which it will host this year. What
will happen in the next two weeks will depend on the attitude of the wrestlers and the team. Nothing else
matters any more. The anti-climactic season is over; only one tournament remains.

Junior Howard Humphries.

---

Around the Southern Conference

By LARRY DAGENHART, Jr.

With two and a half weeks remaining before tournament time, Marshall’s Thundering Herd is still holding on to a three-game
lead over Furman and Davidson in the Southern Conference standings. Marshall, the most consistent team in the conference, is 19-6
overall and should win the regular season title. Marshall clobbered the eighth-place Citadel Monday night, 105-78. Furman upped its record
to 9-4 (15-8) Monday by beating VMI 82-64. The Paladins have hung tough all season and have a crucial game
with Davidson Thursday night. The game will basically decide second place. The Wildcats will be seeking revenge for a 90-80
road loss at home on February 1.

Appalachian State won a thriller over UT-Chattanooga Monday as Ronnie Christian scored on an offensive rebound to sink the Moccasins
67-65. The win put the Mountaineers tied for third with Davidson with an 8-4 (16-8) record. Chattanooga dropped to fifth
at 6-6. Last and probably least, East Tennessee State beat cellar-dweller Western Carolina at home 82-74 and improved to 8-6
(11-11). The hapless Catamounts are 1-11 in the conference, 7-16 overall.

Southern Conference Thought for the Week: Wouldn't it be funny if Davidson won the Southern Conference tournament? Maybe there’s a
clause in that ridiculous rule book that says a team who wins the conference tournament must stay in the conference
another year! --Probably not, but you never know.
