6 Spoof o’ the Week

Welcome to 1988! But not just yet....

By BILL SCOUTEN

What about all those news clips that made 1987 one of the most scandalous years ever? “Is the party over?”
“After the crash” “Heading off hard times” “Up in smoke” “All about twins” “Cher” “Gorbachev in America” “Headaches” “Behind the
smiles” “‘Broadcast News’” “The 80’s are over” -- just a few of the many headlines which sensationalized what I would
term: “corrupted consciousness.”

The crash.... America’s “whiz kids” on Wall Street ran for cover in a shower of ticker tape madness. Computers worked
faster than the minds controlling them -- mental mayhem. The Dow Jones dropped 508 points. And, after six hours of
trading... $500,000,000,000.00 gone. “Bulls and yuppies became endangered species on Wall Street.”

The Iran/Contra hearings with Oliver North -- good ole Ollie -- upholding American truth and justice. The buck can only
go so far, then it’s pocketed. Whatever happened with that scandal?

And, what about the new “Yuppie disease,” Inhibited Sexual Desire? Honest! More people in the U.S. are losing their sexual
drive, and what do doctors tie it to? “A deep childhood fear of abandonment” “Fear of intimacy” “Sheer fatigue.” Yet,
women continue to finance the publishing world, reading books such as: Women Who Love Too Much, Smart Women, Foolish Choices,
and Men Who Hate Women and the Women Who Love Them (ring a bell, Hutch?!){EDITOR’S NOTE: That was a gratuitous
and completely unnecessary reference to Mr. Hutchinson's spectacularly unsuccessful romantic life. Please ignore it.}. Where do you stand?!

Spuds MacKenzie, Cabbage Patch Kids, Couch potatoes, and Madison Avenue. This has been the year of the advertisement. And, as
usual, the desires of the public have again proven insatiable. Acid-washed denim jeans, disposable cameras, laser games on TV, the
“Bag Lady Doll,” “Motormouth Julie,” and adult comic books full of sex. What will they offer next?

School getting to you? Los Angeles kids must love it.... of course, it was always said that Californians were a
little crazy. Their school system is operating full-time now, for the whole year. One year of school straight -- 12
whole months of education -- can you believe it? In existence since 1970, the idea of extended schooling has seen
its day. “Anything to get away from the old agrarian schedule.”(?!)

Bruce Springsteen puts out a new album. Whitesnake: up and coming. Madonna rises from the pages of Penthouse to Billboard’s
top ten. U2’s unforgettable Joshua Tree is a summer favorite. Or, perhaps, Steve Winwood’s “The High Life.” Don’t forget the
Beastie Boys with “Fight for Your Right (to Party).”

Animals of 1987? Pitbulls became the “Jaws” on land. “The last wild California Condor was captured after eluding pursuers for
seven months.” The Dusky Seaside Sparrow is now an extinct species. A new animal is now patentable -- a Geep
(goat-sheep)! Surprised?! And, last but not least, let’s hear it for the Soviet monkey in orbit. After freeing his hand
(paw), the monkey tinkered with the control panel in the cockpit, resulting in a landing which was far off course.
Way to go, Curious George!

Child abuse: an outrage, need I say more? Jim Bakker, Tammy Faye Bakker, and Jessica Hahn. Gary Hart and Donna
Rice. Oliver North and Fawn Hall. Scandalous. “The Girls of Summer: Three Who Answered Notoriety’s Knock.”

The AIDS epidemic, finding its way into the nooks and crannies of city streets and homes, terrorizes young, middle-aged, and
old alike in its sweep across humanity. The condom-and-safety-precautions-leaflet package, referred to as “safe sex” by the renowned Dr. Ruth,
is distributed right and left by concerned groups nationwide and heralded by the young as a necessity.

DAVIDSON DRESS FOR SUCCESS.

January 12, 1988

If you're enrolled in the second year of a college program leading to an associate or baccalaureate degree from an
accredited college/university, you could beearning more than $1,000 a month during your junior and senior years of college for a
total of $24,000 by graduation. You must be at least a US Citizen and have a 3.0 GPA. To see
if you qualify for the Baccalaureate Degree (BDCP), call: 1-800-662-7231/7419 or outside North Carolina 1-800-528-8713. CONTACT: LT. TROEDSON, Career Planning
and Placement Office. You must be 18 but not more than 25 years old to be eligible for the commissioning
program.

NAVY OFFICER

It’s a pretty gruesome picture of American life, isn’t it?! What’s wrong with America? Ogden Nash wrote in his book
of collected verse, "I’m a Stranger Here Myself":

There is only one way to achieve happiness on this terrestrial ball,
And that is to have either a clear conscience, or none at all.

Writing in the 1950s and 1960s, Nash, I believe, nonetheless had some important things to say about the social situation
in the '80s. Composing his verse in the sterility of the '50s, Nash puts two and two together, he cuts
through all the external whiteness of the country. He saw the muck, the perversion, the immorality. He saw the factors
underlying the radical moral upheaval of the sixties and early seventies. It seems that the Watergate hearings were only the
tip of the iceberg. What has America come to? Have we taken a turn for the worse? Traveling at warp
speed into the 1990s, we seem unable to look back for fear of missing what may be ahead. We concentrate
entirely upon the future, refusing to heed the countless mistakes of the past. It is said that a problem cannot
be remedied if it is not first acknowledged. So it is with American life today. The American nation must heed
Nash’s advice: if you can’t keep a clear conscience, then don’t pretend that you do. What am I suggesting? I
am suggesting that America just cannot cover up herself adequately. Publicizing ad nauseam the many scandalous events in the newspapers,
on the news broadcasts, and over the radio waves amounts to nothing but needless sensationalism. It just turns the scandal’s
offenders into real celebrities. Is America really so proud of its scandalous behavior? I wonder.

As a new year’s resolution, I suggest that America turn back to the past. See the whiteness of its past.
Let’s get back to the sterility of the fifties. Let’s better cover up our scandals and bury them deep in
the sands of time. What a spoof! No doubt, that’s what some Americans would like to hear. But that’s just
not what America needs.

As the horizon of 1989 is neared, let each of us look closely at our own lives. See through the
cherubic, erudite mask which each of us wears. Begin with yourself. Recognize the factors in life which effectively cover up
the conscience which was so clear in youth. And, as Nash sees through them in his poetry, successfully eliminate the
insatiable desires, the wanton lusts, the violent addictions. Affect a change and observe it all year long! Keep the sands
of consciousness clean and white, undefiled by the sludge of the oil slicks and chemical spills of scandal. “Have a
clear conscience, or none at all.”

So now 1987 is gone...and with it two of Davidson’s pride. To the families of Collier Lilly and Thomas Vaccaro,
we send our prayers...on the wings of a year that has come and gone, a flash in time. A youthful
memory of them still lingers. But, the tolling of the bell beckons us on...Onward into 1988. Good Luck!

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
Davidson. MON.-THURS. 9-5
Fri. 9-6

SUMMER JOBS FOR GUEST RANCH

This exclusive guest ranch, located high in the San Juan Mountains of Colorado, is now accepting applications for all positions.
For information and application, call (303) 658-2202, or write Rock Swenson, 4UR Guest Ranch, Creede, Colorado 81130.
