Monday, November 7, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

SAEs raise money for Baker Sports Complex

The members of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity helped Davidson College raise over $30,000 for the new Baker Sports Complex. Over 20 members participated in a five-day phone-a-thon sponsored by the Development Office of Davidson College. The SAEs, college administrators, and Charlotte area alumni called alumni all over the country asking for donations to help Davidson meet the Kresge Challenge. The Kresge Foundation has offered to give the college $800,000 if the college can raise the remaining $3.4 million.

College Republicans and Democrats hold mock election

Last Tuesday, November 1, 1988, the College Republicans and College Democrats held a Presidential mock election in the front hall of Chambers. Members of both clubs counted the ballots and declared George Bush and Dan Quayle the winners with 149 votes. Dukakis and Bentsen followed closely with 114 votes, while other party candidates received 7 votes.

Tip O'Neill to speak at Queens College

The Honorable Tip O'Neill, former Speaker of the House of Representatives, will be on the Queens campus on December 1 as the first speaker for the Learning Society of Queens College. The purpose of the Society is to provide an opportunity for Queens’ faculty, students, and the community to learn about timely and important topics. The address will be held in the Dana Auditorium at Queens College at 6:00 pm. Tickets are $7.50 and will go on sale in mid-November.

Rusk program offers International Studies

By WES HOFFERBERT

Beginning this year, Davidson students will have the option of pursuing an international studies concentration in addition to their chosen major. In order to receive the concentration in international studies distinction, a student must formally apply to the International Education Committee by the conclusion of fall semester junior year and, by graduation, complete the requirements set forth by the faculty. These requirements entail demonstrating proficiency in a foreign language, completing three courses of general international or multi-cultural nature, completing three courses related to one particular geographic area, and spending a summer, semester, or year in study or work outside the United States. The committee may waive this latter requirement in cases of financial hardship.

“The concentration,” explains Ambassador Jack Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies, “amounts to an inter-disciplinary minor and gives an impetus to international studies. It enables students to have on their transcript the notation that a significant body of their class work was devoted to international studies.” Students presently in their senior year are ineligible for the concentration. However, such students are encouraged by Perry to apply for the Dean Rusk Program Certificate in International Studies, which is currently under evaluation by the Dean Rusk Program Faculty Advisory Committee. Professor Clark Ross, Chairman of the International Education Committee, has stated that he sees the concentration as a “rather unique opportunity which has significant educational and professional advantages.” Application forms can be picked up in the Office for Study Abroad, the office of the Registrar, or in the Dean Rusk Program Office.

THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER

STUDY IN OXFORD, ENGLAND

Academic Member to speak

By MARGARET CARROLL

Junius Scales, former Communist party member and the only American to serve time in jail for being a Communist, will speak at the Campus Open Hour at 11 a.m. on Tuesday, November 8 in Chambers Gallery. Scales, born in 1920, was born into a socially and politically prominent family in Greensboro. On his mother’s side, the Pellas, his relatives include college presidents, editors, lawyers, judges, and settlers of Jamestown in the 1600s. On his father’s side were judges (including the first chief justice of the North Carolina Supreme Court).Court), Confederate generals, and a governor of the state. Scales grew up in a 36-room mansion, and he led a sheltered life, entering public school at age 12. Scales attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he was disgusted by the anti-Semitic, anti-Negro, anti-working class bigotry of many of his classmates. Ultimately, Scales’ political involvement with the American Student Union, made up of students who were concerned with social justice, led him to join the Communist Party. Scales met Bart Logan, the Party’s Carolina district organizer, and got involved in a strike at the Highland Cotton Mills, where he saw the suffering, exploitation, and poverty among the workers. 

During the McCarthy years, the FBI and the press questioned Scales’ political beliefs, and in Memphis in 1954 he was arrested for violation of the Smith Act, which forbade people to be members of any group which vowed to overthrow the U.S. government. For the next six years, Scales fought the courts, and in 1957 he resigned from the Party. Scales, however, was eventually sent to federal prison, where he served part of a six-year sentence until he was released by Attorney General Robert Kennedy.

Scales claims that he does not regret the reasons that drove him to the Communist Party, but he regrets misrepresenting the Soviet Union as a socialist country in an age when the Soviet Union’s attacks on other radical groups were counter to the Party line. Scales, attempting to better society and to do something beneficial for the United States as a whole, suffered for his beliefs. Scales realized that the means did not justify the glorious ends of the American Communist Party. Scales’ recent autobiography, "Cause at Heart: A Former Communist Remembers," explains the attraction of the American Communist Party and also recognizes its destructive results.

The lecture is sponsored by the College Union Speakers Committee and the Community Lecture Series. A documentary film entitled “Charge-Countercharge” on the McCarthy era will be shown in the Morrison Room in the Union on Thursday, November 3 at 7:00 p.m. A viewing of the movie followed by a discussion with Scales will be held in the Morrison Room on Tuesday, November 8 at 4:00 p.m.

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center (WISC) to study at Oxford for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and the study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their Oxford colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college; this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. college in Oxford. Oxford colleges are accredited by the U.S. Dept. of Education to accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Multi-national student housing and social activities are available, and cultural tours are conducted by WISC. A special summer session is directed by WISC.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, D.C. Pre-professional Program

The Washington International Studies Center offers summer internships with Congress, with the media, and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by experienced journalists. All college students with a 3.0 GPA or above are eligible. For further information, write or call:

WISC
Washington International Studies Center
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 230
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 547-3275 EO / AA

Scales joined the Party on his nineteenth birthday and began working in mills in order to organize the workers. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Scales enlisted and returned to Chapel Hill after the war. Scales was elected vice-president of the Southern Negro Youth Congress, the organization’s first white officer, and later he became the Communist leader of North and South Carolina.

WATSON, from page 1

Geter and France to study the relationship between male domination and the incidence of rape. Her study builds on research she did while abroad in France her junior year. She plans to interview rape crisis counselors, gynecologists, and the general public and will observe courtroom trials.