THE DAVIDSONIAN - Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

Gifts

Somehow, the Sesquicentennial gift fund drive doesn’t seem to be inspiring the student body. Indeed, most students view the choice of the gift committee (benches arranged in clusters and a renovation of the old well) with a mixture of apathy and scorn. Why, they ask, must the college insist upon squandering funds on useless decorations when so many basic facilities are inadequate or in need of repair?

Although most students have become accustomed to watching the college solicit donations from alumni, they generally remain singularly unimpressed by the entire fund-raising process. They’re aware that Davidson’s financial well-being depends largely upon donations secured through mail campaigns, phonathons, direct solicitations, flashy brochures, “Ne Ultra” societies, and so forth, but most of them don’t really care. Their minds are focused upon the problems they see on the campus every day, and any attempt to involve them in a fund-raising campaign should appeal to their desire to see their contributions lead to immediate and practical benefits.

Students laugh at the Sesquicentennial gift because they can’t see any need for it. Furthermore, they feel excluded from the decision-making process. The choices on the campus-wide Sesquicentennial gift poll failed to impress most students, who looked upon all the options—sundials, bronze seals, flagpoles, and so forth—as useless, wasteful decorations which might beautify the campus but which would do nothing to improve students’ everyday lives.

The Sesquicentennial committee could have learned a lesson from this year’s Senior Class Gift committee, which put forth great effort to determine what sort of gift the seniors wanted to present to the college. The choices on the ballot were dignified yet practical, and the committee should expect widespread participation in its fundraising drive because the gift suggestions were all made by members of the senior class. The Sesquicentennial committee, on the other hand, made no attempt to determine whether students would rather donate washing machines and computers instead of benches and shrubbery. It’s unreasonable for the committee to expect the average student to contribute to the gift fund, because the gift simply isn’t what the average student would like to give.

Debt

Students may wonder why the college is accumulating a $43 million debt to finance the construction of the sports complex and new dormitories, especially when there appears to be such a shortage of funds available to meet other needs across the campus. For example, people are asking how we can afford to go so far into debt when our assistant professors, who earn an average of $25,700 a year, are paid less than assistant professors at virtually every other North Carolina college or university. Students may also look at the facilities around them and wonder how the college can afford to spend $2 million on debt service every year for the next twenty-five years, especially when it can’t afford to replace the college’s aging washing machines, or to buy more vacuum cleaners for the Residence Life Office. Why, they ask, can’t we spend the money on library books, or personal computers, or classroom maps, or decent desks?

Students should understand that the sports complex construction deserves special attention primarily because of all the other fundraising opportunities it generates. Already the Kresge foundation has promised to give Davidson $800,000 towards the cost of the construction, and hundreds of other donations have flooded in from individuals and corporations. Donors with lots of money can purchase “Commemorative Opportunities” (price: $10,000), places on the “Honor Roll of Recognition” (price: $500), or identification plaques on the backs of basketball arena seats (price: $1,000, $2,500 or $5,000). No one wants to pay to put commemorative plaques on the backs of washing machines or vacuum cleaners. They aren’t as glamorous or as prestigious as sports complexes, and therefore they don’t bring in nearly as much money. The college can afford to go into debt to support a sports complex—its use as a fundraising focus will allow it to pay for itself. Improvements in academic or living facilities, however, necessarily rank far lower on the list of priorities.

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays (surprise!) during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25.per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: David Alyea, Russell Booker, Tim Jacks, Robin Leach, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Florrie Snively, and Bill Scouten as The Beav.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Otrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Laura Dodenhoff, Callie Hammond, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love, Ligda Tatsapaugh.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

Letters

Union Board

To the Editor:

We are writing this letter because we feel a grave injustice has been done to two Davidson students by those who appoint the Union Board, and we feel the general student body should be aware of this injustice.

After careful deliberation on their parts, the two students in question signed up to run jointly for a position on the Union Board, turned in applications, and were interviewed by the president and two vice presidents for the position. Three days after the interviewing session had been completed, the pair were informed that they had not received the position. Disappointed because both had been very excited about getting involved at the Union and had great ideas about how to best fulfill the position, they assumed that the other candidate had been chosen. They were soon surprised, though, when they discovered that the job had not gone to the other candidate who had signed up, but to two other people who, previous to this time, had expressed no interest in applying for this position on the board. They were further upset to discover that one of the students who received the position was contacted by the president and one of the vice presidents of the Union two days after the interviewing session was over, led to believe that there was a “void” on the board (that is, that no one had signed up to run for the position), and that the president and vice president were “in a bind.” The student contacted by the president was asked to please come in for an interview for the position. He did so, and only then met with the present chairman of the committee in question to find out what the job of the committee was.

So the students who had not even signed up for the position of committee chairmen (one of whom did not even interview) are now going to run a committee whose purpose they were not even aware of, while the two students who had thought a lot about doing the job, had found out what was involved, had thought up many creative ideas for the committee, and had gone through the entire application and interviewing process are going to take their talent and enthusiasm elsewhere.

The reader may ask, where is the injustice involved? If it is not apparent from the above facts, it is apparent in the president’s explanation of the choice given to the two students not chosen. She explained that it was simply Union policy for the president and vice presidents to choose their own board. She also explained that she had contacted the students who received the position so there would be some choice involved, so the position would not be filled because only one group chose to sign up for it. In other words, she felt that despite the fact the two people who had signed up were both talented and capable, she did not want to give the position to them uncontested.

We feel that the loser in all of this is the Union. An arbitrary policy where the president and vice presidents can simply decide who they want on their board regardless of who has signed up to run or even of who is interested in getting involved, discourages any new participation. We also feel the fact that this policy is kept under wraps says something about the integrity of those who decide the positions. In this case, the president specifically asked the student who received the position to keep the whole thing to himself. The students who do sign up to run for positions deserve to know from the outset that they may lose the position to an arbitrary person who may not have even expressed interest in running but that the president or vice presidents would like to have on their board.

Yes, we do have a biased opinion because we have seen two of our friends cheated of something they really desired to do by an unfair system, but we think the reader has to agree that the present system of determining members of the Union Board should be re-examined for the sake of the students who choose to run for positions, for the Union itself, and for the entire student body.

Martha Myrick
Erin S. Lyman