Friday, March 11, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Big weekend for college basketball ahead
By CHRIS HUGHES

This is one of the most exciting weeks to be a college basketball fan. As of this writing, nine bids
to the NCAA tournament have already been taken and in the time between now and Sunday afternoon the other 55
will go. It has been very easy in the past few weeks to find articles that presume to tell where
certain teams will be seeded and in what locations. However, to do this removes a very important variable in that
it doesn’t include a team's performance in its own conference tournament. In fact, this is the last bit of validity
that can be given to most of this two-bit post-season affairs. If not for their influence in the selection process
that begins a week later, the conference get-togethers would be completely meaningless. So instead of sitting back and saying where
a certain team might be seeded, we ought to first look at how the more important of these tourneys shape
up.

He’s such a special guy... he registered with Selective Service!

In the eyes of most, there is no conference championship which can compare to the ACC. This year the ACC
tournament returns to its traditional (and I feel rightful) home at the Greensboro Coliseum. This weekend, less than 100 miles
up I-85, four Top 20 teams will work to solidify their place in the NCAA. No matter what happens on
the hardwood in Greensboro, North Carolina, Duke, N.C. State, and Georgia Tech will be in the field of 64 a
week from now. In fact, one of the only interesting factors in this year’s tournament is Maryland’s chances of sneaking
into the NCAA field with a good showing. The Terps will have to beat a once-hot-now-just-lukewarm Georgia Tech team on
Friday in their opener. Then they would likely meet North Carolina (sorry Wake) in the semis. In the event they
can come this far, Maryland would need only one more win or merely a good show on TV to get
into the NCAAs. Don’t bet on any of this happening. UNC has been known to choke before but not this
week. It'll be UNC and Duke on Sunday with the Heels taking the trophy.

Friday night at the fights comes back to the Garden this year with the Big East tournament. The big city
boys have a chance of putting six teams in the NCAA this year with Pitt, Syracuse, and Georgetown as locks
and Villanova and Seton Hall merely needing to win their first-round games. The only problem is that Villanova’s first game
is against St. John’s, the other team on the bubble in the Big East. Look for this 9:00 game Friday
night to be one of the two most important of the tournament. The other will be the final where we
could see another Pitt-Syracuse matchup. Look for Syracuse to win and take a second seed in a regional other than
the East while the loser will stay home to face the likes of Temple and North Carolina or Duke.

The SEC will get together in Baton Rouge, Louisiana on LSU Assembly Center...Register with Selective Service at the post office.
There's really nothing special about it. All you do is fill out a simple card. It only takes five minutes.
So don’t be the only one who hasn't done it. Register with Selective Service. It’s quick. It’s easy. And it’s
the law.

Frozen Yogurt - Sandwiches To Go - Imported Beer - Wines - Cheeses - Coffees - N.C. Pottery - Gift
Baskets
* Open for Lunch 7 Days a week
Check Our Daily Specials
128 N. Main St.
704/892-7521

ADDRESS CITY STATE SCHOOL

LONDON
* Art/Architecture
* Business/Economics
* Engineering
* Human/Health Services
* Journalism/Communications
* Visual/Performing Arts
* Politics

WASHINGTON
* Politics
* Business/Economics
* Pre-Law
* International Relations
* Journalism/Communications
* Health Fields
* The Arts
* Specialty

All programs include 16 semester-hour credits, full-time internships, centrally-located apartments, individualized placements for virtually every academic interest. Participants must have
junior or senior status; 3.0/4.0 GPA.

BOSTON UNIVERSITY [ ] LONDON [ ] WASHINGTON

Kentucky, Florida, Auburn, and Vanderbilt are already set, but despite this, a good showing for the Wildcats is very important.
A sweep of this tourney would most likely give them the number one seed in the Southeast at Cincinnati in
the first round. An embarrassing loss along the way would send them to a second seed in Siberia, where they
would doubtless bring 15,000 fans with them anyway.

For the rest of the conference, this is a last hope to make the NCAA with the best hope going
to home-standing LSU. The Bayou Bengals should be able to manage an upset or two before falling, thus opening the
door for Florida to take the title.

The Big Eight tournament is one of the oldest in the land. When they throw it up in Kansas City,
Oklahoma will be the hands-down favorite. With a win, they kill Kentucky’s chances of a number one seed and possibly
shift Purdue to Cincinnati for the Southeast Region’s top spot. However, the Sooners may not win this one. In a
league which will almost certainly place five teams this year (OU, Kansas, Missouri, Kansas State, and Iowa State), Oklahoma has
a tough task ahead. Missouri has been hot recently and may surprise the pack, but Oklahoma has the best chance
of coming back to Kemper Arena for the Final Four.

Finally, the Western Athletic Conference will crown a champ on Saturday in Provo, Utah. Chances at NCAA seeds aren’t important
here; only Wyoming and BYU have a chance at the top 4 in any region. What does matter is that
there will be at least four, maybe six NCAA teams on the bill. Wyoming, BYU, Utah, and UTEP are all
sure of their post-season plans. New Mexico has enough of a reputation to get them in, and the other “bubble
team,” Colorado State, could make it by going to the championship game. This one should be quite a show.

Among other interesting action this weekend: see if Indiana can upset Iowa to avoid not being invited to the NCAA,
see if Temple, UNLV, and Arizona can avoid upsets in conferences that shouldn’t even challenge them, see if the NCAA
gives Marshall a bid and the Southern Conference two NCAA teams for the first time in its history, and last
but not least, see if anything I’ve said at all comes true.

PHONE ( )
