» Sports - Volleyball wins stunning victory over UNCC
By MARY FAITH MOUNT

Volleyball coach Rebecca Hawkins can scarcely believe her team’s performance. “Unbelievable, not unbelievable... incredible!” she says, reflecting the general mood after last Thursday’s win over county rival UNC-Charlotte in Johnston Gym last Thursday. Davidson again employed enthusiasm and skill to hold tight and defeat the Forty-niners, 15-13, 16-14, 8-15, 3-15, 15-13. Hawkins was quick to mark this victory as “the biggest win Davidson has ever had.”

In her third year as Davidson volleyball coach, Hawkins has much to praise in her team. UNCC is a member of the Sunbelt Conference, which includes Jacksonville, Western Kentucky, and Virginia Commonwealth, among others. Before the game, the UNCC coach informed Hawkins that this was her best team at the school.

The first two games were very intense and close throughout with Davidson emerging as the victor of both. After these two close victories, the Wildcats seemed to show their mental and physical fatigue, dropping the next two games decisively. But the team rallied, as the crowd helped restore the previous enthusiasm. Inspired by the play of Mimi Plauche, Davidson won the fifth and deciding game. Hawkins commended the crowd for the boisterous support. The crowd seems to raise the intensity of the team, she believes, and she wants the team to maintain that level of intensity.

Although this win was most definitely a true team effort, the crucial player was Plauche. She had 19 kills and 44 attempts for a hitting average of .385. Hawkins said the only way UNCC could have beaten Davidson was to shut down Plauche, and Thursday night she could not be stopped. Hawkins commended three other players for their all-around play. Ellen Ott’s defensive game was a plus for Davidson. She also added extra punch to the Wildcat attack. Molly Graver again played consistently, as did Holt Hathaway, who suffered nagging back pains. The team travels to Limestone College on Wednesday, then UNC-Greensboro on Friday.

Field Hockey - Wildcats top Sewanee
By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

Last week the Davidson field hockey team upped its record to 5-8-1 with a 3-1 win Saturday over the University of the South. The Cats' first goal by Suzanne Mauze was called back due to an offsides penalty but five minutes later, Mary Russ knocked one in from outside the penalty circle—a goal that was difficult to stop for the Sewanee goalkeeper. Davidson continued its good offensive pressure throughout the first half, and with four minutes remaining, Marta Bukowski scored from the left side amidst a scuffle around the goal giving Davidson a 2-0 halftime advantage. Not even four minutes into the second half, the Wildcats got their third and final goal of the day when Gigi Cooke scored on a rebounded ball shot by Lauren Rotlescr which hit the right goal post. Sewanee scored midway through the second half, but the Wildcat defense prevailed for the 3-1 win. Davidson’s offense was overwhelming statistically, as the Cats outshot Sewanee 54-10.

Soccer - Wildcats have tough Virginia trip
By WHIT WILKS

Davidson traveled to Virginia last weekend for a pair of games against Liberty University and James Madison University. The Cats were surprised by Liberty 5-1 and fell to a solid J.M.U. squad 1-0. In the process, Davidson’s record fell to 7-10-2 heading into last evening’s contest at Appalachian State. On Friday, the Cats continued a season-long trend and fell behind in the first half. The Flames opened the scoring roughly twenty minutes into the match to go up 1-0. Davidson soon responded, however, as Peter Cobb scored the equalizer only moments later. The teams went into halftime tied 1-1.into the half tied at one. Unfortunately, the second half was reminiscent of the Belmont Abbey game. Liberty scored only seconds into the stanza to take a 2-1 lead. From there the situation only worsened, as The Flames added three more scores in registering the 5-1 victory.

On Sunday, Davidson looked to get back on the winning track as the team went to Harrisonburg to play J.M.U. The Cats had an opportunity early, as Neco DaSilva just missed only two minutes into the first half. The Dukes did not waste much time after this near miss, however, as they scored at the nine-minute mark to lead 1-0. Neither team could generate much offense the rest of the first half, and J.M.U. clung to the 1-0 advantage. The second half saw a continuation of the offensive void. J.M.U. managed to blank the Cats for the remainder of the match and won by the 1-0 margin. Davidson plays at home this Sunday against Wake Forest University.

THE WORLD SERIES

Around the Horn

Dodgers and Athletics continue baseball’s great fall traditions

By HAP BRYANT

The World Series, that ever-present rite of fall, has graced us with its presence once again. It seems like only yesterday that the Yankee Stadium crowd was chanting, “REG-GIE, REG-GIE,” for the three home-run performance of their star and future candy bar. In fact, that was eleven fall classics ago, and a new “Mr. October” has yet to emerge. However, the 1988 World Series will go down in the memory banks as a great one in its own right, for seldom have we seen such drama, such fortitude, and such enthusiasm.

The Dodgers, following the underdog tradition of the Twins and Royals of recent years, seemed grossly outmanned by the huge Monster Bash Bunch from up the California coast. Even the first game was a landmark. The first-inning home run by Mickey Hatcher, perhaps the most unlikely of all, set the stage for the heroic struggle of desire vs. ability, of intensity vs. apathy. Jose Canseco’s mammoth grand slam in the fourth inning turned the tide, but the Dodgers held on. Trailing 4-3 in the last of the ninth, Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda called on his crippled superstar, Kirk Gibson. With one man on base, Gibson came to the plate to face the Athletics’ bullpen ace, Dennis Eckersley. Gibson looked sick on the first several pitches, fouling four off and limping away from the plate.

See BRYANT, page 11

Reflections on the Series

By JOHN MAHERAS

One of the biggest shocks in baseball history occurred during this year’s World Series. One of the most powerful run-producing clubs ever assembled, the Oakland Athletics, with the likes of Jose Canseco and Mark McGwire, were defeated handily in five games by a team, who at the beginning of the season was picked to finish third in their division: the Los Angeles Dodgers.

The Dodgers captured the momentum in the World Series after the climactic finish to Game 1. After falling behind to the A’s 4-2 due to Jose Canseco’s grand slam, the Dodgers’ hope for a victory quickly diminished. But the Dodgers managed to manufacture a run in the latter part of the game to cut the A’s lead to 4-3. The score remained the same going into the bottom of the ninth. The A’s had their ace Dennis Eckersley on the mound to try to finish off the game. The first two Dodger batters grounded and popped out. Then Mike Davis came up to bat and managed to get on by a walk. Suddenly, Kirk Gibson, who was doubtful to play in the World Series due to an injury sustained in Game 6 with the Mets, limped to the plate.

See REFLECTIONS, page 11