Friday, January 22, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Taiwan leader dies; Israeli unrest lingers

By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining the news January 15-21:

Around the World --

Taiwan’s President Chiang Ching-kuo died, fueling questions about a slow-down in reforms. Chiang had promised to form a collective leadership,
replacing his family’s dynastic rule. Vice-President Lee Teng-hui will serve as president until the current term expires in 1990.

Conflict still dominates the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank, where 39 Palestinians have been killed in protests since December.
Food shipments into the occupied territories were banned by Israel until strikes end.

Haiti held elections on January 17 which were disputed widely as fraudulent. The military-run elections were boycotted by many popular
candidates. The elections have been rejected by both France and Canada.

In the Philippines, local elections were held Monday. Election results are expected to provide President Aquino with a comfortable majority.

Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze visited West Germany for three days last week, urging West Germany to pressure NATO to continue
arms reduction. The visit to West Germany was the first made by a Soviet foreign minister in five years.

The Guatemalan Army launched an unusually large offensive against leftist guerrillas this week, raising doubts about the government’s commitment to
the Central American peace plan. To allay such doubts, Guatemalan President Cerezo suggested that indirect negotiations with the rebels might
be possible.

Across the Nation --

President Reagan is asking for congressional support for military aid to the Nicaraguan contras again, as a February 3 vote
draws near. Reagan asserts that military aid is necessary to pressure the Sandinista government towards compromise. The upcoming vote is
seen as an important struggle of the last months of the Reagan administration.

Recent polls suggest that presidential candidates Republican Robert Dole and Democrat Paul Simon may claim victories in the February 8
Iowa caucuses. A good showing in the Iowa caucuses traditionally has been important for candidates because of the large amount
of media coverage that this first contest is given.

In Economic News --

Japan announced a 3.5% drop in its trade surplus during 1987, the first decrease in five years.

POLICY, from p. 1

Houses were also brought before the Enforcement Committee because of reported violations of the alcohol policy. According to Ethridge, who
was present at the meeting, Rusk and Pi Kappa Alpha were charged with having neglected to furnish food and non-alcoholic
“alternative” beverages at a party they sponsored this past weekend. The Council issued a written warning to the two houses.

Kappa Alpha Order was also charged with an alcohol policy violation because it allowed an underage fraternity member to enter
the designated alcohol serving area. The fraternity member entered the area because he was transporting and tapping a beer keg,
and he left the area as soon as he had performed these functions. The Council served KA with a written
warning.

The alcohol policy states that those witnessing suspected violations must report them to an Enforcement Council member in his or
her house, to the president of the Patterson Court Council, or to the Secretary of the Enforcement Council, within three
days of the observation. The Secretary then presents the house under review with a written statement of the charges which
have been brought against it. A closed hearing is scheduled within seven days of the date of the formal presentation
of the charges. The president of the house and the member of the Enforcement Council from that house represent their
house at the hearing. The actual house members charged with committing the violation also appear. The representatives of the house
either admit the substance of the charge or decline to admit it. The Enforcement Council then decides if a violation
has occurred. A two-thirds majority vote is required to find a house “guilty.” A house found guilty will have one
or more sanctions imposed. The possible sanctions include a written warning, a punitive fine of $100, social probation for one
week, social probation for one week and a $200 fine, social probation for two weeks and a $100 fine, and
definite social probation.

Broaddus, who in her capacity as president of the PCC also acts as the nonvoting Chairperson of the Alcohol Policy
Enforcement Council, said that the Alcohol Policy was revised at the end of Fall Term 1987. Each house heard the
proposed changes, discussed them and passed them.

Wrestlers’ wallets stolen during meet

By MARGARET CARROLL

On January 16 members of the Davidson wrestling team returned to their locker room in Johnston Gym to find that
their wallets had been stolen. The team had been participating in a meet with visiting wrestling teams from Georgia Tech,
Ferrum, and UT-Chattanooga. Only$185 has been reported missing, but it is believed that many team members have yet to file
police reports. The only two team members who have turned in police reports are sophomore Holme Oltrogge and freshman Dylan
Glenn. Oltrogge says that he had $85, a bank card, his driver’s license, and his Davidson ID all taken along
with his wallet. Glenn had $100 taken along with his wallet. Freshman wrestling team member Joe Binns said that he
talked with a friend from the Georgia Tech team who said that some of their team members’ wallets had been
taken also. However, none of the members of the other teams have filed police reports. The Davidson team left the
locker room around 5:30 pm and returned at 8:00. Binns said that they left their wallets in the locker room
like they always do during practice. When asked why none of the other members had turned in a police report,
Binns said that their coach, Tom Oddo, had told the team that he would turn in the report. Chief Jackie
Hughes of the campus police said, however, that Oddo could not turn in such a report because each individual must
sign his own report. The police said that they cannot investigate if only two reports have been filed, and that
the other victims need to turn in their reports as soon as possible. Oltrogge also said that Oddo was planning
to call the other schools to see if their wallets had been taken. Oddo has not returned calls from The
Davidsonian, however, and has not provided any comment on the matter.

SURVEY, from p. 1

Upperclassmen: while only a tenth of freshmen felt that the ban was a bad idea, almost a quarter of the
juniors and a third of the seniors opposed it (see graph, p.1). The second question on the survey asked students
if they “would like to see sororities on Patterson Court.” Only 27% of the respondents answered “yes,” and of these
84% were male. Only 12% of females felt they would like to see sororities at Davidson (see graph below). The
most overwhelming response to any portion of the survey was to the question, “Do you feel that members of Patterson
Court houses are stereotyped by other students?” Ninety-four percent of the respondents answered “yes,” while only 2% answered “no.” Twenty-one
percent of the respondents were freshmen, and of these 65% said they planned to join either a Patterson Court house
or an off-campus fraternity this year. The only question which failed to indicate any clear majority opinion among the respondents
was “Do you feel that freshmen are pressured into joining a single-sex eating house?” Fifty-six percent of the respondents answered
“yes” while 41% answered “no” and 3% did not respond. While about 62% of juniors and seniors felt that freshmen
were pressured to join single-sex houses, only 47% of freshmen agreed with this view (see graph above).

Three questions on the survey dealt with the amount of time students spend on Patterson Court. In response to the
question, “Do you devote more of your free time to activities on Patterson Court than to other extracurricular activities?” sixty-four
percent of the students surveyed said “no” and 34% said “yes.” Of those responding in the affirmative, the majority were
seniors and sophomores, while only 28% of juniors and 20% of freshmen said they spent more time on the Court
than elsewhere (see graph at right). In a related question, sixty-six percent of the students surveyed said they thought that
Union attendance suffers due to events on Patterson Court. When asked, “Does your involvement in Patterson Court functions in any
way adversely affect your classroom performance?”, only 17% of the respondents answered “yes” while 78% answered “no.” Those who said
that Patterson Court had hampered their classroom performance included 27% of the seniors, 14% of the juniors, 8% of the
sophomores, and 15% of the freshmen taking the survey. In response to the question, “Do you feel that Patterson Court
organizations have an obligation to perform community service?”, 76% of the respondents answered “yes” while 23% answered “no.”

More sophomores devote their time to Patterson Court

Question: Do you devote more of your free time to activities on Patterson Court than to other extracurricular activities?

Percentage responding “yes”:
Freshmen: 20%
Sophomores: 44.7%
Juniors: 28%
Seniors: 34%

Men are more willing to accept sororities at Davidson

Question: Would you like to see sororities on Patterson Court?

Percentage responding “yes”:
Men: 35%
Women: 12%

Most upperclassmen say freshmen are pressured to join single-sex houses

Question: Do you believe freshmen are pressured to join a single-sex eating house?

Percentage responding “yes”:
Freshmen: 47%
Sophomores: 62.1%
Juniors: 61.8%
Seniors: 62%
