From July 24 to August 16, Susquehanna University will offer an academic program in Japanese language and culture. Sixty hours
of instruction will consist of five hours of language classes daily, taught by Japanese instructors. Participants will share a residence
hall with 24 Japanese students from Tokyo's Senda University, who will be studying English language and American culture. Interested students
should contact James F. Lee, Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, Penn. 17870, (717) 374-0101, ext. 4200 for information.

Friday, November 18, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

MAKONNEN, from page 1

Michael worked as a counselor-mentor in the Love of Learning program for minority high school students. His two summers of
work with the program profoundly affected the lives of the students he came in contact with. One senior in the
program who knew Michael writes: “Mike did more than counsel. He gave freely of himself. Infinitely patient and understanding, he
was there for us when we’d go to him, sometimes tearfully, with our problems. But he did more than give
advice—he probed our minds to help us find our own answers. He was a true optimist, intent on helping us
focus on the brighter side of everything. Even his mere presence was comforting.”

As a resident adviser at Davidson, Michael was “thoughtful, caring, and very knowledgeable about Davidson,” according to Director of Residence
Life Tom Jennings. “He was an idea man, a real involved student.” Makonnen was a member of PIKA and BSC,
and he was involved with international student programs on campus.

Makonnen, 22, was a native of Ethiopia. When civil war broke out in Ethiopia, some of his relatives were assassinated
and threats were made on his family because his father was a government official. When Michael was nine years old,
his father sent the family to Sweden to live with his mother while he remained in the country. Being in
a life-threatening situation in Ethiopia, along with the responsibility for the family accorded him by Ethiopian culture as the oldest
male in his father’s absence, forced Michael to “become a man, to put away childish things and be concerned for
his family,” says Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia.

His experience with adversity at an early age produced in Michael a “sense of strength,” says Tapia, which he exhibited
throughout the year he was dealing with his cancer. Michael’s strength and will to live as long as he could
“inspired us all to work harder and to appreciate life even more,” says one of his fellow counselor-mentors in the
Love of Learning program. Countless Davidson students, faculty, staff, administrators, and members of the college community, and high school students
involved with Love of Learning were touched and inspired by Michael Makonnen. One of these high school students writes, “His
determination, will to live, belief and faith in God, and his attitude of taking one day at a time assisted
him in bearing his tremendous burden and changed the lives of everyone with whom he has come in contact.”

Open Forum continues weekday party discussion
By PETER BYNUM

Students and administrators discussed the problems associated with week-night parties in an Open Forum Monday night. About 100 students attended
the forum held in the 900 Room. The only faculty and administrators in attendance were on the panel. The forum
was sponsored by the SGA, and the panel consisted of Senior Class President Hap Bryant, Patterson Court Council President Eileen
Keeley, Professor of Religion Tyn Foley, Director of Residence Life Tom Jennings, Dean of Students Will Terry, and Freshman Class
Senator Scott Taliaferro. SGA President Harrison S. Murray served as the moderator.

The meeting began with an observation by Residence Life Director Tom Jennings that the actual number of week-night partieshas decreased
noticeably since the freshman year of the current senior class. However, faculty and administration concern seems to lie in what
Professor Trent Foley referred to as a “party mentality” and an apparent “dichotomy” between academic and social life at Davidson.
Foley, speaking from his own point of view, feels that the nature of parties on Patterson Court causes academics to
be “something to be endured rather than engaged” and no longer “stirs people’s passions.” Terry, while claiming no intention to
restrict parties during the week, dislikes the emphasis placed on them. “The thing that bothers me,” he said, “is the
length of the parties, not the fact of them.” Terry also worries that noise from residence hall and Court parties
cuts down on quiet places to study on campus. Jennings and Terry agreed that weekday parties are not always good
for academic pursuits, but that efforts to curb them would be, as Terry said, “a victory for Satan.”

The conversation digressed from the effects of late-night parties and alcohol consumption on grades to a discussion of problems with
faculty and student relations, specifically the lack of creative interaction between the two groups. Several people voiced the opinion that
more personal exchanges between professors and class members, in the form of faculty mixers or after-supper conversations, would not only
alleviate academic apathy but also help to increase creativity. Bryant felt that the lack of creative activities, academic and social,
stems from the heavy Davidson workload. Terry agreed with Bryant, pointing out a tendency to “equate excellence with quantity.” Foley
blamed the problem on an overemphasized “Calvinistic work ethic.”

The consensus of the panel seemed to be that great progress has been made to reduce the adverse effects of
weekday parties. Nevertheless, people also felt that students need to be held accountable for their actions at these functions. Terry
urged the student body to send a message to the faculty to force students to “live up to the same
standards” that everyone, partiers and non-partiers, try to uphold. Terry called for students to realize the need to address this
issue and hopes that students will resolve it among themselves. He said, “I would much rather they did it than
anyone else.”

ESSX, from page 1

redialing a busy number until the line is free: In order to use this feature, after receiving a busy signal
the student should depress the switchhook and listen for the dial tone. Then, dial #78 and listen for the confirmation
tone (2 short signals) and hang up. When the line is free, the phone will ring three times. The student
should pick up the phone, listen for ringing, and wait for the called party to answer. Both the caller and
the called party must be available within 30 minutes or the request will be cancelled.

Because there were not enough outgoing long-distance lines available to students during peak hours, additional lines have been added. According
to Director of Administrative Services Bob Stephenson, a traffic study by Southern Bell indicates that the additional lines should be
adequate. Stephenson notes that many students unfamiliar with the area have been using their seven-digit personal access codes to place
calls to Charlotte and Mooresville exchanges. These calls are local and can be made without charge; however, if the code
is used students will be charged for them.

SCALES, from page 1

in order.” When asked if he felt there is a particular party or organization that is making substantial progress in
civil rights today, Scales offered some general advice, and what organization to join and allow “your conscience to decide.” Scales’
advice is to “be a negro lover, be a do-gooder, and be a bleeding heart.” Scales said that Jesus is
the ultimate bleeding heart, and while the principles in the Gospels might be too hard to live up to, at
least “we should try.”
