Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Friday, November 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN — 15

I WILL NOT ASK FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I WILL NOT ASK FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I WILL NOT ASK
FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I WILL NOT ASK FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I WILL NOT ASK FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN.
I WILL NOT ASK FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I WILL NOT ASK FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I WILL NOT ASK
FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN.

Football

In writing your editorial on the Davidson football team (October 27) you omitted several very important points. First, let me
say that I will be very disappointed if the college elects to drop the football program entirely because it represents
a significant part of Davidson life. There are countless football players who came to Davidson to play college football in
an academic environment, and if the program is dropped they would be left to transfer. Beyond hurting players, dropping the
program would have a more profound effect on Davidson than one might think. Football games create a social venue apart
from Patterson Court, adding much to Saturday afternoons. Football games also provide an opportunity for Davidson alumni to visit their
school. Most older alumni would not feel comfortable walking into a Patterson Court party.

The question of whether or not football players can compete in football and academics, which you erroneously answered in your
editorial, is not such a definitive "no." In the Colonial League, Davidson will not need "semi-pro" football jocks to play
and win. In several years when all of the scholarship athletes at schools like Holy Cross and Lafayette are gone,
the Colonial League will be on more of an even footing. The Colonial League was established for schools with high
academic standards who still want to maintain a football program. All of the football players I know came to Davidson
to have the opportunity to play football and receive an excellent education, which is unique in today’s collegiate Division I
athletics. What needs to be asked is, does the college want to give up one of its longest athletic traditions
and a great resource enjoyed by many students, faculty, and alumni alike?

For me, it comes down to this: the football team will start winning again once they realize their potential, because
on paper they are as good as any team they have played this year. Once Davidson begins to win again,
the bad years will be behind them. Does the college want to give up the football program and all it
represents? I think not. I believe that if the Colonial League is allowed to be Davidson’s football home, in a
few years everyone will be surprised at the results.

Sincerely,
John C. Patton

Opinions Policy

The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines:
- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

Michael Makonnen

Davidson has lost a piece of its heart in the death of Michael Makonnen. It is always an especially grim
task to bury a classmate; death’s intrusion on Mike’s youth is an encroachment on ours, too. His long, brave but
ultimately unsuccessful struggle against his cancer serves to remind us all of the fragile hold this world has on us.
Mike’s work with the Love of Learning program best typifies the impact he had on the school and community. In
the program, which enrolls minority students in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school area, he served as a Counselor-Mentor. Essays written by students
in the program about their dying friend Michael echo the maturity and strength Michael showed throughout his ordeal. When students
in Love of Learning worried about what they could do for Michael, Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia suggested to those in
the program that they pray on the hour for him, something simple, such as, “God, please be with Mike.” We
who are troubled about this death should take this advice. God is with Mike now; weNeed to ask now that
He be with Mike’s family and friends.

More on Football

Apparently, the stir that a football editorial in these pages created two weeks ago was nothing compared to that produced
by the lead story in last Saturday’s Charlotte Observer. The article examined the forces affecting the continuation of Davidson’s football
program and was headlined “Football Is At Stake In Davidson Athletic Struggles.”

The article came on the morning of Davidson’s last game of the season, and the day before the football banquet.
Demoralizing! said the coaches at the banquet, and there was a suggestion that the placement of the article was done
with the discombobulation of the football team in mind. Certainly, it was said, the article was harmful to the college.
Was it a conspiracy? Was it bad for the college? All of this seems like a ritual killing of the
messenger. The Charlotte Observer did not create Davidson’s football woes; it merely reported it. In fact, the story was all
set to go to press the week before, but election coverage took precedence, and the article was pushed back a
week. There was no conspiracy.

In any case, The Observer does not have as its main mission the welfare of Davidson College. Were the facts
of the article true? They seem to be; there is considerable debate on campus over the team’s future, and at
the trustee meeting at the end of this month, football is as likely as not to get the ax. The
Observer merely presented a timely topic with a reasonable degree of accuracy. That is its job. Was the article bad
timing for the team? Sure. Did the article bring ill tidings for the team? Absolutely. The article may not have
been in the best interest of the football program per se, but it may be beyond help.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey S.
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views available on request.
Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly handwritten. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted
diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll.
Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome.

News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras,
Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.

All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.

All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those on
diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday. All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling
reasons if they do not wish their names printed with their work.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones,
Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon
Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Mark Pickers, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith,
Todd Stephenson, Whit Wilks.

Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter. The
editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a
viewpoint very similar to others previously published.

All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following information:
the author's home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.

Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland Smith, Mark Steen.

Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.
