Thursday, February 18, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

DISCOVER YOUR POSSIBILITIES

Find out how you can use your work skills and experience to serve God.

Right now thousands of Christian organizations offer fulfilling job opportunities in a wide range of occupations — in the U.S. and overseas.

Call the Christian Placement Network and discover your possibilities. Call today!

Toll free 800-426-1342 (206-546-7330 in WA, HI, and Canada) Or return the coupon below.

Write: Intercristo’s Christian Placement Network, 19303 Fremont Avenue North, Seattle, Washington 98133

[_] Yes! Please send me free information on Intercristo’s Christian Placement Network.
Name:
Address:
City/State/Zip:

The Career and Human Resource Specialists
Publication bibs. a Division of CRISTA

The world is waiting. Be an exchange student.

International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, sends teenagers like you to live abroad with host families. Go to new schools. Make new friends.

If you’re between 15 and 19 and want to help bring our world together, send for information.

Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE, Pueblo, Colorado 81009

LETTERS, from p. 13

In response concerning Union Board selection procedures, we felt the issue was not yet resolved. The first letter, written by Martha Myrick and Erin Lyman, suggested the need for a reevaluation of the by-laws of the Student Union concerning Board selection. Last week’s letter, written by the new officers of the Union Board, simply defended the present by-laws and the actions that they condone instead of addressing this issue.

Although we were not personally involved in the recent selection process, we feel insecure about the fairness with which we, as applicants, might have been treated. We agree with last week’s comment that “any fair method of selection involves the making of difficult decisions.” To us, a fair method of selection also involves choosing from among those students who have actively shown interest through the sign-up sheet. Why do we have sign-up sheets and interviews if the officers still have the option to go beyond this method? The officers’ stated goal of “a cohesive, dynamic, and effective Union Board” is one we can all appreciate. We believe the officers can attain this goal by selecting from among the people on the sign-up sheet. The officers should not have the option to appoint Board members from outside the applicant pool because they are dissatisfied with the applicants. As effective leaders, they should work to integrate these enthusiastic people and continue to pursue the stated goal.

We strongly encourage a reevaluation of the Student Union’s by-laws, resulting in a revision of the selection process.

Cathy Nelson
Stephanie Wyatt

Our three-year and two-year scholarships won’t make college easier. Just easier to pay for.

Even if you didn’t start college on a scholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts.

See Capt. David Strong in the Basement of Belk Dorm or call him at (704) 892-2000, EXT. 170 for more information.

ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS