The bright side of tuition hikes, p. 9

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXIX, Number 2

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, March 25, 1988

Evolutionary theorist speaks on equality

Gould launches Wearn Lecture Series

By JENNIFER HOFFMAN
Harvard Professor of Geology Stephen Jay Gould works at the cutting edge of scientific discovery. “We now have a wealth
of new and exciting data, some of which is as recent as last week,” Gould stated during his address, “Human
Equality is a Contingent Fact of History.” He continued, “The nice thing about talking about such subjects is that you
can’t merely repeat old lectures.”

Gould’s speech launched the newly created Wearn Lecture Series. The award-winning author and expert in the field of paleontological research
addressed a near-capacity audience in Love Auditorium Tuesday night.

College President John Kuykendall introduced Gould “as one of the most readable and understandable and appreciated essayists in modern writing,”
one who is especially appealing “to those of us who lack wide exposure to things scientific.”

Gould is well known for his theory of “punctuated equilibrium,” a major revision of Darwin’s gradualism. He argues that natural
selection is not the steady, precise progression Darwin envisioned; rather, it is quirky and unpredictable.

Gould began by tracing a history of scientific errors embedded in social prejudices. “Until very recently scientific views, that is,
views by scientists, on the subject of race and racial differences had supported the social and political notion of ‘profound,
innate, ineradicable, necessary inequalities in the intellectual abilities and moral behaviors of different human groups,” noted Gould.

Similarly false preconceptions have been applied to other differences such as sex and social class as well, he said. “One
group serves as surrogate for the others, for the general phenomenon of biological determinism.”

Gould stressed that ties between science and social influence are not necessarily bad. “I’ve always seen this as a very
positive aspect of science. It affirms science as a human enterprise.”

Recent discoveries support Gould’s theory of biological equality. Gould cited an article run in Newsweek several weeks ago reporting a
study which traced genetic changes in mitochondrial DNA. This DNA evolves ten times faster than nuclear DNA, and thus reveals
greater mutation over a shorter period of time. Of 1,400 base pairs studied in 147 subjects, a sample which represented
the full spectrum of races, only two “major branches on the evolutionary tree” were revealed: one group consisted only of
Africans, while the other group included the rest of the Africans as well as all other races on earth.

“We are all united in a much closer genealogical nexus than we ever realized,” concluded Gould. “We’re now beginning to
understand that the origin of our species, homo sapiens, was a historical event that occurred probably in Africa probably on
the order of 200,000 years ago, which is yesterday for geologists, and which simply

See GOULD, page 3

Wearn Lecturer and Harvard Professor of Geology Stephen Jay Gould spoke Tuesday night in Love Auditorium on “Human Equality is
a Contingent Fact in History.”
Photo courtesy of Stephen Jay Gould

SGA Election Results!

President: Harrison Murray
Vice President: Charlie Winn
Review Board: Chelley Alexander
Senior Honor Council: Kat Huster, Ken Jones, David Ray
Junior Honor Council: Betsey Bryan, Charles Jordan, Michael Roach
Sophomore Honor Council: Bob Hornsby, Minne Iwamoto, Ellen Ott
Student Conduct Council: Heather Fitzpatrick, Brett Morris
CCRL: Heather Fitzpatrick, Susannah Wellford

Inside

Board approves 9.7% fee hike

19.6% housing cost rise leads the march

By GEORGE KURANI

Davidson’s Board of Trustees recently approved a 9.7 percent tuition and fee increase for the 1988-89 school year, bringing the
comprehensive cost to $13,596. This year’s fee hike is 1.4 percent larger than last year’s raise of 8.3 percent.

Several factors led to the fee increase. Davidson plans to increase faculty salaries next year, especially at the assistant professor
level.

The college also plans to broaden with an increase in computers and computer facilities. There will be an increase in
computer workstations for students as well as more PCs available for the faculty. Classroom computer aids will also be added.

Funds have been approved to use in the building of three dorms and the hiring of personnel for their maintenance.
Personnel will also be added in the following departments: student services (counseling), admissions and financial aid, and physical plant.

The Board of Trustees has allotted 33 percent of the increase to be used for student financial aid. The 1988-89
college budget of $29.2 million is a 14.5 percent increase over the present budget of $25 million. Although the tuition
increase will generate a little more than $1 million, the college will rely on increased endowment support and fundraising to
meet upcoming needs.

Among particular increases in next year’s fees, the highest oc-

See $13,596, page 3
