The Davidsonian Wednesday, April 13, 1988

Women’s tennis dominates Pfeiffer, falls to UNCC

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Davidson women’s tennis team split their two matches this week. The team brought its record to 12-9 with six remaining matches. The Lady Cats were scheduled to play Peace College, but the match was rained out and has been rescheduled for Wednesday, April 13.

Davidson dominated Pfeiffer 7-2 last Thursday. The team was clearly superior to Pfeiffer, and Coach Brown gave some of the backups an opportunity to gain playing experience. Ruth-Rudert, and DeCou-Carr teams swept all three doubles matches.

UNCC avenged a previous 7-2 loss to the Lady Cats by defeating Davidson this week. Davidson was devastated by injuries and illnesses in this match: Mary Beth Ruth, Marion Stone, Jane Price, and Debby DeCou all took home wins in the singles. Amy McNelis is still out with an injured ankle, and another player was unable to play due to illness. Coach Stubbs was forced to make substitutions in the lineup as a result of these problems, and although the backups played well, they were unable to handle the more experienced and revenge-hungry UNCC squad. One highlight came as the team of Hall and Stone-Stubbs won their match in number one doubles. The team has to rebound from this loss and prepare for the forthcoming matches, which will be the most important of the season. The Lady Cats traveled to Chattanooga April 9-10 to compete against Marshall, Western Carolina, and other teams.

Around the Horn

NCAA academics

By HAP BRYANT

On the eve of the Final Four, CBS’ show “48 Hours” studied the life of college basketball by observing the campuses of Duke and N.C. State. The schools’ teams were preparing to take the court in an A.C.C. contest. During the show, the CBS crew was particularly interested in the academic life of the basketball players in relation to other students. Their findings were both embarrassing and amusing, but we at Davidson must feel some sense of accomplishment after seeing the near-farce educations that go on at some other places.

Of course, at Duke, basketball players undergo the same rigorous academic load as do the other students. CBS entered the classroom with several of the players, only to find out that freshman Greg Koubek had failed a test. Koubek was obviously disgruntled with the outcome, but he kept a lighthearted attitude. He dismissed a question that implied a disparity in his priorities, saying it was not a case of too much basketball and too little studying. CBS implied that Koubek’s experience at Duke is the exception to the rule of dedicated student-athletes. Other athletes in Koubek’s class did well on the test. However, there are well-documented cases at Duke of the student-athlete failing to live up to the academic requirements. Most recently, Phil Henderson, a sophomore guard, was kept off the basketball team during his freshman year because he did not achieve the university’s demanding standards. It is good to see that some institutions still value learning above basketball, even a national basketball power.

However, the situation at N.C. State was entirely different. Instead of observing a genuine academic class, as they did at Duke, CBS was required to attend one of the tours offered by the Education Department at State. There they found Wolfpack starters Chris Corchiani and Charles Shackelford, as well as several other basketball players, enrolled in a class called “Introduction to Leisure.” According to the teacher of the course, Introduction to Leisure instructs students on how to best use their leisure time. Evidently, with classes like that, there is quite a bit of leisure time at N.C. State. Even more embarrassing was the reaction of Charles Shackelford, junior forward for the Wolfpack. When asked why he took “Introduction to Leisure,” Shackelford said that he had several hard classes and he needed an easy class to balance his schedule.balance out the schedule. When asked what his other classes were, Shackleford named “Geometry, Science, English...” Maybe it’s the cynic in me, but Shackleford seems to be giving quite a general outline of his course load, one that most assuredly is rather light. 

Price came back to win a three-set match, and conference-leading UTC are often out of sync with athletic schedules. When the CBS crew members went to the Physical Education department at Duke, they took the matter seriously afterwards. Luckily, it seems we have our priorities straight here at Davidson regarding the academic and athletic performances of the student-athlete. Although they are given extensions and special consideration (and rightly so), Davidson’s athletes must shore up under the same system that every other student finds taxing. That makes it all the more satisfying to the institution and to the athletic department when Derek Rucker gains both All-Southern Conference honors and Academic All-American honors to boot. But Derek Rucker comes only once in a blue moon. Davidson must constantly assure the nation that athletics are not preceding academics, and that admissions standards, while allowing leeway for student-athletes, are not totally thrown out the door for an exceptional athlete.

Sports Shorts

Corchiani was standing next to Shackleford when the CBS reporter interviewed him. At Shackleford’s response, Corchiani broke down in laughter. Somehow, it was hard to take “Geometry, Science, and English” very seriously.

WINTER • SPRING • SUMMER • FALL

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR LESS AT

Several Colleges of Oxford University have invited WISC to recommend qualified students to study under the tutorial system as Visiting Students or Associate Students for one year or for one or two terms. Upper Sophomore status and graduate study is available. Integrated student housing, social activities, and special summer programs are offered by WISC.

By WHIT WILKS

• Men’s tennis loses heartbreaker to Wake. On Tuesday, the Cats (15-7) fell 5-4 to the Deacons in a tough non-conference clash. Wake took 1-3 singles while the Cats won the 4-6 positions. The teams split the first and third doubles contests, so the match boiled down to the second position. The team of Jim Thompson and John Griffith took the Wake team to the limit before falling 6-3 in the third set. Coach Jeff Frank was pleased with the performance, as Wake has blown out Davidson in the past. He noted that the Deacons are loaded with foreign scholarship talent, so the close score was comforting. The team traveled to Western Carolina this weekend to play W.C.U., V.M.I., U.T.C., and E.T.S.U. in important conference matches.

• Soccer team picks up win. On Wednesday, Coach Slagle’s crew played host to Belmont Abbey, a team which has had the Cats’ number in recent years. Davidson executed well on a rain-soaked pitch and earned a 2-1 victory. Curtis Ott and Tracy Hankins registered goals for the winners.

• Trivia. The answer to last week’s question is never, as the Olympics will be making their Asian debut this summer in Seoul. Many thanks to the hundreds of you who flooded the office with your calls and letters. This week’s stumper: Who has won the most Masters’ championships?

Frozen Yogurt - Sandwiches To Go - Imported Beer - Wines - Cheeses - Coffees - N.C. Pottery - Gift Baskets

Past student evaluations available.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON SUMMER 1988

Pre-professional program: internships in Congress, the media, the White House, think tanks, etc. Related courses in Government or Journalism.

Open for Lunch 7 Days a week
Check Our Daily Specials
128 N. Main St.
704/892-7521

The Washington International Studies Center
Room 713A, 901 Sixth Street SW
Washington, DC 20024
(202) 337-9378/9379 (EO/AA)