10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jon Dyar Boles, Editor-in-Chief
Keith Finch, Managing Sycophant
Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editor
Tripp Helms, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Rachel Nation, Inside Art Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
John Wightman, Business Manager
Lucia Kendall, Opinions Editor, Circulation Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Section Production Editors

Why bother?

It is unfortunate to have to admit that the NCNB World Hunger Conference attracted a relatively small degree of interest
and participation from the College community. The student turnout was poor, faculty attendance almost negligible. Considering the importance of the
topic and the reputations of the speakers, this is a terrible reflection on Davidson.

Admittedly, few of us at the College have to worry about facing the prospect of starvation, at least as long
as Carleton Pritchard keeps the Dining Service running in the black. But world hunger, population growth, and diminishing natural resources
are forces which are likely to pose serious threats to our way of life before the end of the century.

The Conference, like the many other sparsely attended presentations on campus, offered an opportunity for students and faculty to increase
their awareness of world issues. When we leave our ivory (or red brick) towers to go out and make decisions
affecting the state, nation, or world, we’re going to have to come to grips with many of these issues. The
purpose of a Davidson education is to prepare us to meet these and other challenges. But hey, as long as
we’re walkin’ down that red brick path o’ life—even if for only four short years—why spoil it by worrying about
what’s happening beyond Davidson? You can learn more from Yeats than from the Wall Street Journal anyway.

Dry rush is no solution

It is said that College used to be the place where one would learn, among other things, how to drink.
As the third paragraph of the SGA freshman rush resolution states, “...alcohol is an ever-present aspect of college life and
society as a whole, students must learn both the positive and negative aspects associated with the use of alcohol...”

Instituting dry rush is not likely to solve Davidson’s alcohol abuse problem. There will always be pressure at college to
drink, and after college people will continue to drink as they seek the acceptance of their peers. Learning how to
drink responsibly, or deciding not to drink, is a part of growing up, and college does offer a good environment
for coming to terms with the question of alcohol use.

Alcohol does play a substantial, if too prominent, role at Davidson. Downplaying its importance by making it a peripheral aspect
of planned social events will allow freshmen to interact with upperclassmen from all Court houses and permit them to make
intelligent decisions about membership in a house. If dry rush is instituted, the freshmen will simply continue to drink on
their halls throughout the rush period. Their drinking together might build more unity and group identification than Court parties do,
but it would be unlikely to cure either alcohol abuse or the problems which lie behind it. At the end
of the dry rush period, freshmen would burst upon the Court just as they always have, drinking with wild abandon
until they finally realize, months or years later, just how dangerous alcohol can be...

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the top floor of the
Grey Student Union building.

Rachel Nation is an Inside Art stud woman with a penchant for Davidsonian editors. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the class consciousness of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Suzanne Craymer, Jim Dillon, GeorgeKurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan
Pearsall, Stewart Rawson, David Scott, Toby Truog. Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, Lisa Gerrard, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Scot
Myers, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill Scouten, Shannon O’Shields, Florrie Snively. Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony
McCarron, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell. Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Rachel Nation, Holme
Oltrogge, Andre Roberts, Lucy Siler. Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn. Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen. Cultural Consultant: Lee
Eichelberger.

Friday, April 22, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN or DIE.
“gots us il C Crews (Apologies fp Poor Richard) +/24/96

Letters
Current Events

Dear Editors:

I am writing to apologize to the science majors of Davidson College. In the April 4th issue of The Davidsonian
I was quoted as saying, “As a physics major, sometimes I feel I know shamefully little about Central America.” I
was not misquoted, and I have no complaints about the newspaper or the reporter, Jay Barron. In my mind, the
facts that I am interested in physics and math, and that I am generally not very interested in current events
are very much related. In general, I am ashamed at how little I know about current events. It seems that
I am a victim of a stereotype about myself. I have no data, but I would conjecture that most people
would not think of physics majors, or for that matter any science or math majors, as keeping up with current
events. I am afraid that my statement only helped to propagate this gross generalization, and I would like to apologize
to my fellow math and science majors for this insult. I would also like to take this opportunity to challenge
the Davidson biology, chemistry, math, physics, and premed majors to rise above this stereotype and make a concerted effort to
keep abreast of important issues. There is a lot of good and necessary input that comes from the particular perspective
that we can bring to such issues as the environment, world hunger, nuclear war, nuclear energy, and industry. This apology
and the challenge that follows it may not have been necessary in the eyes of those to whom it is
addressed, but please take it to heart.

Apologetically,
Charles C. Gowing

Gould

Dear Editors:

I wish to respond to Ranjit Rawlley’s letter about sound and lighting at the recent lecture of Stephen Jay Gould.
No one is more distressed than I that the speaker could not be heard in the back rows. Although Mr.
Rawlley’s complaint is just indeed, he needs to know that Dr. Gould was given every opportunity to make his needs
and wishes known before the lecture. In fact, he was escorted to Love Auditorium at 4:00 on the afternoon of
the lecture for a sound check which he declined to make. Unfortunately, unless a lecturer expresses his desires when he
is asked, the Committee on Public Lectures cannot predict these desires by reading his mind. A speaker’s unpredictability, however, is
precisely what often makes him an exciting character. Most of our lecturers are, like Dr. Gould, extremely busy people who
may not know themselves until the last minute exactly how they will handle a lecture--whether they will move from the
podium, whether they will want a pointer for slides, whether they will consent to answer questions. If bringing such vital
lecturers to campus now and then creates a practical problem, then perhaps audiences should be prepared, even reluctantly, to take
the bitter with the sweet.

Sincerely,
Cynthia Lewis, Chair
The Committee on Public Lectures

Pre-Wed Yogurt

Dear Editors,

In his review of the movie “Dead on Arrival,” Bruce Plourde compared Davidson women to frozen yogurt. I would, in
turn, liken Mr. Plourde’s article to frozen tofu: smooth but tasteless. On behalf of Davidson women, I decry the scurrilous,
sexist implications of his comments. I resent the implication that females at Davidson are not interested in promiscuous, meaningless sex.
Many of us pre-Wed majors have (in addition to our “grace, charm, and sincerity”) “sets of hormones” which are more
than complete.

Most Sincerely,
Frances B. Parker
