Sports The Davidsonian Thursday, September 15, 1988

Field Hockey Wildcats whip Salem 11-0, lose to Duke 1-0

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

The word is control. That’s what the Davidson field hockey team seems to be in as the Cats improved to
2-1 after an 11-0 blowout over Salem College Tuesday. The regular season began quite auspiciously last Tuesday as Davidson, for
the first time in many years, beat Pfeiffer College 1-0. Davidson generated lots of offense and had about the same
number of shots on goal as Pfeiffer did. However, Mary Russ scored the only goal by rebounding a goalie save
with five minutes left in the game. The Cats lapsed in the final two minutes and even allowed Pfeiffer a
penalty stroke, but co-captain goalie Alison Chapman got the team back together mentally and prevented what could have been trouble.

Thursday, the Duke Blue Devils of the ACC invaded Davidson for a rematch of last year’s game, won by Duke
6-0. This time Duke did not get away so easily, winning only 1-0. The big factor was that Duke was
playing its first game of the season on grass, a surface practically foreign to the Blue Devil players who most
often play on turf. Almost every stick stop on Duke’s corner plays was muffed because of bouncy balls on the
grass field.

“Duke didn’t have control of the game,” said Davidson coach Betsy Pryor. “We capitalized on their mistakes, but they hit
their stride in the second half.” With 21 minutes left in the second half, Duke attack Kathy Mallet scored on
a corner hit after a scuffle for the ball around the goal. Davidson lost its composure briefly after the goal
but soon returned to its aggressive play shown in the first half. Why was the final only 1-0? Alison Chapman.
She collected 26 goalie saves, while helping to take care of the 39 shots on goal.

In Good Health

By MARK PUCKETT

Everyone wants to look good. Men want muscles and rippled stomachs--not love handles and beer bellies. Women want lithe, toned
bodies--not cellulite deposits on their fundaments. No one is proud of being unfit. Why, then, do people get fat? Most
people eat too much of the wrong foods and exercise too little. If you read last week’s column, you will
know that eating the right foods combined with regular exercise yields fitness and good health. But you hate to exercise.
And you are going to eat whatever you want. I can’t make you change your lifestyle; I can only tell
you why you ought to change it. I offer the following information for your benefit. It has helped me.

Fitness Tips of the Week

1. Analyze what you eat. Think about what you are putting into your body. Read the labels on boxes and
cans. It helps to know protein, vitamin, fat, carbohydrate, sugar, sodium, cholesterol, and fiber content. Avoid fried foods especially.

2. Don’t just eat for the sake of eating. Be sensible about what your body is telling you. If you
feel full, quit eating.

3. Exercise in the morning (before noon)--about two hours after you wake up. Your body will respond better. You get
it over with and don’t have to worry about it for the rest of the day.

4. Eat a piece of fruit about an hour before you workout. It will give you good, quick energy as
opposed to the energy you get from eating a candy bar. Eat fruit after a workout as well--it will replenish
lost carbohydrates and raise your glycogen level.

5. When working out, practice proper techniques--especially in weight training. You aren’t in the weight room to impress your buddies
by throwing as much weight on the bar as you can.and doing a couple of improper repetitions. Concentrate on the
muscles you are working. Try not to rest more than a minute between sets, even if it means reducing the
amount of weight you are working with.

6. If you exercise aerobically, do it at least three times a week for 20-25 minutes. If, at first, you
can only exercise once or twice a week—don’t worry. Eventually, you will want to exercise and, thus, find more time
for it in your schedule.

7. Eat a light breakfast. Harvey and Marilyn Diamond in *Fit for Life* say, “From the time you wake up...
until at least noon, consume nothing but fruit and fruit juices... as much as you want. You will be able
to create, not burn up, a huge chunk of your available energy for the day.”

8. The weight room is not a social and eat club—it’s for exercising. Socialize after your workout.

9. Eat your vegetables.

10. Gradually increase your fiber intake. Eat salads, fruits, vegetables, whole-grain breads and cereals, etc. Fiber helps lower cholesterol.

11. Warm up and warm down. Stretch before and after a workout.

12. Don’t limit yourself to one type of exercise. If you get bored of swimming, try running or lifting weights.
Give it a good run, but if you don’t enjoy what you’re doing, don’t do it.

13. Most importantly—establish a routine. Get involved in a program and stick with it. You have two choices: 1) stay
unhealthy and risk dying at an early age because your fat-clogged arteries couldn’t handle your lack of exercise and poor
eating habits, or 2) be healthy and flourish as a fitness deity. The choice is yours.

For those serious about getting fit, I recommend the book *Fit for Life* by Harvey and Marilyn Diamond. *American Health*,
*Men's Fitness*, *Flex*, and *Shape*, as well as other magazines, offer updated health and fitness information that is useful. If
you are confused about anything or wish to know more on a specific matter, write to: “In Good Health.”

---

by the Blue Devils—an outstanding game. Davidson, on the other hand, only had six shots on goal for the day.
Pryor was pleased, nevertheless. “Last year we didn’t get any shots in the circle, and this time we had more
attack at midfield.”

Another factor Pryor mentioned was the level of fan contribution at the game. The good turnout of students and their
noise really helped the Cats intensify after Duke scored.

On Tuesday, Davidson put on a scoring clinic, as the Wildcats pounded Salem College 11-0. Lauren Follmer led all scoring
with 4 goals, two of which came in the first five minutes. Gigi Cooke, Katherine Mallory, and Mary Russ all
had goals in the first half, as Davidson went up 6-0. The most interesting goal came in the second half
when Follmer shot from the far right and the ball was tapped back into the goal by a Salem defender.
Salem’s inexperience showed most of the game. Davidson outshot them 47-7. Four of Salem’s shots were saved by backup goalie
Tracey Perez, who came in to relieve Chapman in the second half.

Davidson’s next game is at High Point College on the 19th; the next home game is September 27 against Pfeiffer.
Note: Watch for the “Field Hockey Thought of the Week” coming next week.

---

Wildcats have mixed week in soccer

By WHIT WILKS

What started out as a good week ended up being a horrible one, as Davidson defeated Winthrop 3-0, then suffered
losses to Furman (2-0) and Belmont Abbey (6-2). The Cats (2-3-1) beat a pesky Winthrop squad on goals from Mike
Friedlander (2) and Neco DaSilva. Coach Charlie Slagle was pleased with the contest, as the team had to play well
with several key performers injured.

On Saturday, the Cats took on Southern Conference power Furman. The teams played a closely-contested first half which saw...

See SOCCER, page 10
