Features Charlotte Flix

Hope and Glory: A gem amidst the shrapnel of WWII
By BRUCE PLOURDE

London, 1939. It was a mild Sunday afternoon. Men mowed their gardens, children played, women sat indoors and listened to
the radio. The only event that could have marred such a beautiful day would have been a war. When the
announcement came over the wireless, the mowers, as if by orchestration, all stopped at once, and all the families on
Rosehill Avenue huddled together in their parlors to hear the prime minister recount his ultimatum. Britain had declared war against
Nazi Germany, then stood back in anxious anticipation to watch the enemy’s reaction. The children ran outside expecting to see
German bombers at any minute, but none came that day. Eventually, a few mowers started up again, and the day
passed, beautiful as ever, yet ruined beyond repair by the threat of a second world war.

What a horribly dismal prospect for a movie. Hope and Glory does have characteristics which would seem to come directly
out of Eliot’s The Wasteland. Yet, despite its depiction of the destruction, strife, and turbulence wrought by war, Hope and
Glory nonetheless reaffirms that old values, like love and friendship, trust and faith, hope and glory, do not perish with
the city or its inhabitants. In fact, the film does not dwell on the pains of war at all, but
concentrates on the unique sort of happiness which came of living in that time, as if A.A. Milne dropped Winnie
the Pooh for a brief interlude to relate the incidents of Christopher Robin in 1939.

Perhaps it is narrow-minded to see WWII as a chance to collect shrapnel, or camp out in a bomb shelter,
or even date Canadian soldiers. Yet for the people of England, life during their second big war meant only less
of the same. Life went on as British as ever. The rationing and the bombing changed the daily schedule, to
be sure, but everybody managed their inconveniences and still found time to enjoy themselves. Otherwise, the ominous face of the
war might have scared them out of all sense. Getting around the new problems was sort of like throwing a
googly. A googly, as every good cricket player knows, is a throw which twists in such a way as to
put the batter off his guard, and sneaks by to knock the pins off his stakes. Once mastered, victory was
assured to the pitcher. The people of London had their own googlies to master, not just to survive but to
live.

Billy (Sebastian Rice Edwards) has mastered both, as have all his mates. War for them means new playgrounds found in
bombed houses, collections of weapon paraphernalia, and the chance to frolic and beleaguer their teachers during air raids while wearing
flatulent-sounding gas masks. But Billy’s buddies would have done pretty much the same had the war never arrived in their
boyish boroughs. The war serves merely to heighten the pleasure of their fun and tighten the bonds of camaraderie.

For the rest of the family, too, the joy of living has only changed shape. For father Clive (David Hayman),
it is a freshly captured can of German jelly. Mother Grace (Sarah Miles) finds great mirth in watching the decrepit
bobbies of London, with high trepidation, take a fallen German pilot as a prisoner of war. Younger sister Sue lets
it all fly over her innocent darling head, while older sister Dawn takes pleasure in a captain named Bruce. One
gets the impression that this entire, quaint family of Rosehill Avenue would follow similar pursuits as well, as became their
character.

In all, Hope and Glory shows the domestic side of war. While pilots dogfight overhead and soldiers dig trenches on
the continent, the women and children maintain as much tranquility on the home front as possible. At the near end
of the film, then, when Billy’s crazy grandfather boasts, “The law of life is cruel, isn’t it?” his comment evokes
genial laughter in the audience and his father, who has just got caught looking at the sorry end of Billy’s
googly.

Perhaps the best way to illustrate the traumatic times of the war is just as John Boorman has done, to
pick out the brighter moments and follow them through, while hints of dark horrors sneak in at the sides. Concentrating
on one boy’s observances of his family and friends, Boorman gives a genuine and intimate feel for the era. Unlike
that megalomaniac Spielberg, who produced Empire of the Sun, Boorman does not fill...his effort with unnecessarily burdensome and profound symbolism,
nor does he dwell on the sentimental and sappy. Rather, he tells an honest tale, rife with reality, which nonetheless
affects the sensibilities. A precious little gem if ever there was one, Hope and Glory proves without reservation or regret
that not everything that comes of war is bad. Hope and Glory stars (from left) Sammi Davis, David Hayman, Sebastian
Rice-Edwards (front), and Geraldine Muir.

By MARGARET CARROLL

Every Wednesday night Davidson students volunteer to help with the Wonderful Wednesday program at Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.
Charlie Summer, minister at Seigle Avenue (and Davidson’s former chaplain) organizes the program. “Wonderful Wednesdays,” as the program is affectionately
called, consist of children’s Bible study hour while the adults have choir, a dinner for everyone, and then children’s choir
while the adults have Bible study. The Davidson students help with the children’s activities and also help in the kitchen
when needed. Sophomore Jay Clugston claims, “The interaction between us [the volunteers and the kids] is the most worthwhile result.”
Students who have participated in the program are Tindal Davis, Molly Graver, Vera Misra, David Scott, Ford Shippey, Jay Clugston,
Alice Shuffield, and Lisa Gerrard. When asked how they got involved with the program, several students replied that after working
at Seigle Avenue during Awareness Weekend they wanted to continue to volunteer there. Others heard about the program through friends
who were working at the church. Freshman Tindal Davis says, “They’re accomplishing a lot there,” referring to the various programs
at Seigle Avenue.

Along with the Wonderful Wednesday program, the church has after school tutoring programs for elementary and youth groups (junior high
and high school age). The elementary group includes tutoring, Bible study, and recreation, while the older youth session is divided
into tutoring, personal counseling, and field trips. Both groups meet after school four days a week, and volunteers come from
Seigle Avenue Church and other churches in Charlotte to help. The girls’ club was also started two years ago and
meets every Tuesday night to discuss human sexuality and self-esteem. One area of concern which the club has been successfully
dealing with is the prevention of teenage pregnancies, a growing problem in low-income areas according to statistics. The boys’ club
also meets on Tuesday nights and consists of recreation and field trips related to vocational interests. For example, the group
recently visited several successful black businessmen in the area.

One of the newest and probably most needed programs at Seigle Avenue is the Mothers’ Cooperative Preschool program. It consists
of 34 five-year-olds and is designed to help mothers in low-income families learn about parenting while at the same time
help the preschoolers get the background they need before entering kindergarten. This Saturday more Davidson students (some Kappa Sigmas) are
helping at Seigle Avenue. Opportunities exist to assist with any of the massive scope of programs. Although the Wonderful Wednesday
program just finished for this school year, Seigle Avenue always welcomes volunteers. All of the Davidson volunteers agree that helping
out at Seigle Avenue is rewarding not only because it is fun, but also because they are bringing happiness to
the kids.

Get motivated & shape up this Spring

Dear Confidential: Health,

With spring here, I feel so out of shape. Do you have any advice for an exercise plan that I
can carry out over the summer?

Fitness does not happen quickly, but the day you begin to exercise you will feel better. No matter what type
of exercise program you choose, the most important factor is that it be something you enjoy. Every type of exercise
should be hard work for you physically, but if jogging is boring to you, explore other activities such as swimming
or aerobics. If it is an activity you enjoy, then hopefully you will develop a regular routine.

Now that you are motivated to start an exercise program, you may establish a good routine so it will be
easy to maintain in the fall. High stress times are really when you need exercise the most, so make it
a lifelong habit and chances are you'll live longer. There are three key components which should be incorporated into any
exercise program. The first is flexibility, which can be achieved through stretching exercises. The second is strength, which can be
developed through weight training or resistance exercises. The third is cardiovascular endurance, which can be improved through activities like running,
cycling, or swimming. To get the maximum benefit, you should exercise at least four times a week or every other
day. The amount of time you spend on each session will depend on your fitness level and goals.
