Commentaries The Davidsonian ~ Tuesday, December 13, 1988

Ah, but times they are a changin'
Jeff Batten

With the current hustle and bustle upon us that we Davidson students associate with upcoming exams, my efforts should be focused on exactly that, but the urge within me to challenge an aspect of school policy more than compensates for the existing need to gear up for next week’s fiascos. I am complaining/inquiring about the decision of the registrar’s office to deny all senior requests for a semester class underload.

Those of us who have been here a while clearly remember our senior friends opting to take two classes for one term of their senior year - pending the requirement of an extra course credit. Regardless of motive, this right was an inherent one for the senior class, and, needless to say, was a much-exercised one. The process was simple -- so simple that it encouraged more seniors to exercise this option. One filled out a form, and the registrar’s office rubber-stamped it. Case closed.

Ah, but times they are a changin’. I arrived at school this August only to be greeted with the UNDERLOAD DENIED stamp applied to my forehead. Dr. Sue Ross politely explained that with the advent of semesters, the registrar’s office felt that underloads could only be granted in times of sickness or other extenuating circumstances. Pressed for further explanation, she asserted that, under the trimester system, the courseload with an underload would be reduced from nine classes to eight classes for the senior year, but, under the new semester system, an underload would reduce the courseload from eight classes to seven classes for the senior year. And the school did not feel it could justify a net reduction of two classes.

Later, in the wake of other seniors being denied an underload, I thought about this problem. Over the last two years, Davidson has been constantly assuring and re-assuring us of the equality between the trimester and semester systems. Thus, examining the difference in relative rather than absolute terms, can we not assert that nine trimester classes equate to eight semester classes? Further, can we not infer from that parity that a one-class underload under each system would do nothing to damage this parity? It appears that the position of the registrar’s office is essentially just because we tell you things have not changed, things have changed enough to prevent certain benefits from persisting.

Pursuing this line of reasoning to its conclusion, I received the impression from the Registrar that we seniors should consider ourselves fortunate to be required to take only four classes in our last year as opposed to the requirement of underclassmen to take five classes in a semester at certain points in time. I, however, do not feel fortunate in this sense. Having taken nine courses a year for the last three years, I argue vis-a-vis my previous argument that I have taken five classes a semester (once a year) for the last three years. Therefore, the class of 1989 will have graduated with 35 credits while the class of 1992 will have graduated with 34 credits. I still do not feel fortunate.

Turning away from the more technical criticisms, I want to make my point in a more emotional, subjective context. Without getting into the nuances of Davidson’s statement of purpose, I would like to believe that Davidson prides itself on its abilities to aid the senior class in its effort to land good jobs. So instead of being granted the luxury of more time in our job quests, many of us will pollute the rosters of Physics 21, Anthropology 101, etc. No degradation of these classes should be inferred, but we seniors will get nothing out of these classes, the underclassmen in the classes will be held down by our deadweight, and the professors will certainly resent the fact that seniors find the classes to be unstimulating. Could this time not be better spent in securing a grasp on our futures rather than withering away in classes about which we could not care less?

One of the drawbacks of my argument is my lack of information regarding the successes of my classmates.

What are the limits of altruism?
Willis Partington

In the wake of the recent Oxfam one-day fast for hunger awareness, I thought it a fitting time to deal with an issue that has become an increasingly difficult one for me to deal with in the past few years, namely, what are the limits of altruism? By this I mean, where do we draw the line in dealing with the issues of helping others and taking care of our own well-being? Should we be wholly concerned with ourselves or only concerned with improving the lives of others? I suppose that the two extremes of this spectrum could be represented by Donald Trump on the selfish extreme, with Mother Teresa representative of extreme altruistic behavior. Where do we find ourselves within this spectrum?

I am not a Christian, but I am in agreement with many of the moral and ethical stances of this faith, the most important of which for me is the exhortation by Jesus for us to ‘Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.’ What does this mean for us in today’s world? Does it mean going as far as selling all we have, giving all our money to the poor and going to work with inner-city homeless people somewhere? Or does it mean that we should try to get into Harvard Business School so that we can get our MBAs and secure ourselves a nice little 6-figure salary? Or is there somewhere in the middle, some happy medium, where we can have our fast cars and fancy clothes and still devote enough attention to ‘‘the poor’’ to satisfy our consciences?

Obviously, I am not trying to give any simple answers to this question, nor am I even trying to answer it at all. I hope much more that this article will generate responses that would answer this question. Now, I guess if I wanted to be sure to get a response to this article, I could accuse the majority of readers of being rich selfish bastards who don’t give a damn about much of anything (except maybe themselves).in their efforts to obtain an underload. If everyone but me received one, then I’m looking pretty stupid. But I know this is not the case. My interests do not normally lie in publishing for public scrutiny, but this is definitely an issue that “stirs my passions” (credit to Dr. Foley). Davidson College, either admit that semesters are more challenging than trimesters or grant us the rights of the previous senior classes. Registrar’s office, either admit that my time is better spent in Theatre Arts 101 than looking for a job or grant me the right of the previous senior classes. I invite any and all rebuttals to this essay. 

Jeff Batten is a senior economics major from Lithonia, GA getting drunk) as long as it doesn’t impinge upon their complacent little world, but that wouldn’t be presenting a very fair picture, now would it? So let’s assume that won’t be necessary. In an attempt to focus this question a little more and bring the abstract gibberish down to a more concrete level, I'd like to discuss this issue within the framework of world hunger. How much should we as individuals be doing to alleviate the crisis of world hunger, in which thousands of people are starving to death each and every day (weekends included)? What would constitute doing too much or too little? Should we give everything we can while still surviving with the bare essentials, even going so far as to get into a career specifically concerned with alleviating this problem, or is there a limit to giving, monetary or otherwise, where one can say with conviction, “Yes, I have done enough?” Or should we do anything at all?

ALTRUISM, page 12

The facts on football have been seriously distorted

The hot topic of the day is the fate of our beloved football team. The recommendation for a drop to Division III has frenzied the football players and suddenly awakened the students to the seriousness of the issue. For many of us, some of our friends will not be back next year if the recommendation is carried through. But the plethora of articles in The Davidsonian and The Charlotte Observer have raised numerous issues on which the facts have been seriously distorted and readers are getting an incorrect impression.

The question of money has been one of the most frequently mentioned aspects of the decision to shift divisions. Can you imagine what type of expenses the program incurs to fly the entire team and staff to New York for a game against Fordham, put them in a motel and feed them? I’m sure most of us would cringe at the sight of the bill, and I’ve heard that Assistant Athletic Director Bob Price comes to the verge of heart failure when forced to send in the payments for those bills. But, wait! The football team has a plan (better than their game plans, I hope). They’ll save half a million dollars in cutbacks. The assistant coaches will work for $4,000 apiece and players will contribute part of their financial aid back to the program and go without new uniforms next year. Are we really supposed to believe that the coaches can live on $4,000? Since financial aid is given on a basis of demonstrated need, how in the hell will the players who give the money back be able to afford Davidson? There’s no way you can convince me that this plan will be a permanent change. In the following season, the expenses will shoot back up, and the same problem will return.

The performance (or lack of it) by the team as a whole certainly influenced the decision of the committees. Gatto’s magnificent career record (2-39) coupled with our impressive statistical victories over Fordham, Bucknell, and East Tennessee State are certainly grounds for maintaining the status quo! How do those trustees dare take such ludicrous measures?! Sources within Johnston Gym say that Gatto himself admitted last spring that if he didn’t win four games, the program was in serious trouble. Gatto also expressed that “there’s no comparison in divisions.” That’s funny. I seem to recall two Division III teams on our game schedule this season, Guilford and Fordham. Correct me if I’m wrong, but I believe we lost both of those games. No comparison? Seems like the same old results. Besides, if there really is no comparison, why were those teams on our schedule in the first place?

The issue of a commitment to the football program for five years probably infuriated more people than any other single item. No doubt, when Gatto arrived in 1985 with his new troops, he was told that he had five years to turn around the program. The coaches and players claim, though, that a new commitment was made last spring. Try asking a trustee or a faculty committee member about this. They don’t know what the team is talking about. It seems that the only logical answer to this question is that some member of the trustees made a personal commitment to the coaches and that the team blew it out of proportion.

Honor has been harped on by the people involved, stating that the break with this commitment represents a violation of their honor. Every time I turn around, a different player has his name in the paper, crying foul about his honor. After the announcement last week, junior Harry Schiavi appeared in The Observer, complaining about the school violating his honor. Schiavi is the same person who had to be suspended from intramural basketball last year because he deliberately belted a player during a game last year, sending the guy to the hospital with stitches in his mouth. Some honor!

Much of what has transpired thus far was inevitable. Whether Davidson can survive in Division III or be put together will only be told by the future. There are many outstanding individuals on the team who are the victims of circumstance. If all the players leave Davidson, the enrollment will decrease drastically, but then maybe I’ll be able to live until 1991 and graduate.

The author of this piece has requested and received anonymity. Questions and comments may be addressed to the Editor as usual, but he’s not gonna tell you anything.