i}
J ¥.

YYQAIN.

ee
t

Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 8

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, October 20, 1988

The Scene of the Crime: the college laundry.

Photo by Alex Hayden

By KATHARINE ARMSTRONG

Senior Groundskeeper George Morris reported the willful destruction of two relatively expensive trees near Vail Commons last week.

According to Morris, the little Weeping White Birch “were snapped off about

day morning as the grounds crew discovered “the tops of the trees leaning over and the stumps sticking up out
of the ground” Thursday morning.

Morris expressed concern about the Davidson Code of Responsibility and the ethics of the students as well as their

See TREES, page 2

Laundry reports $1,000

in clothes stolen this year
Seven week figure already equals 1987-88 total

By GARY WHEELER

Almost $1,000 worth of clothing has disappeared from the Davidson College laundry already this year. Two bundles, one worth $326
and the other $341, were removed from the shelves by someone other than the owners earlier this year. Both of
the bundles were processed on the same date, and neither bag has been returned.

More recently, six shirts valued at $54 each were found missing from the racks.

Laundry Manager Frances Beaver is sure that both the two bundles and the six shirts were labeled with the correct
laundry number, because duplicate tickets (recording the weight of each laundry bag or the number of shirts turned in to
be washed and ironed) kept by the staff matched the laundry numbers of the three students.

The laundry service does not have insurance, so students are compensated for lost and stolen clothing from the laundry service’s
budget. This year’s budget sets aside $1500 to pay for lost or stolen clothing.

This year’s disappearing laundry problem has been much worse than in years past. Last year, $1051.69 was reimbursed to students
to cover missing clothing, but that amount has almost been equaled in just seven weeks this year.

Beaver claims that it is not uncommon for students to accidentally pick up the wrong bundle, but these bundles are
usually returned fairly quickly. If the bundles are not returned, Beaver says that not only does it create a great
deal of expense for the laundry service but it also inconveniences the students who must get by without their lost
clothes.

Beaver does not feel that she needs to change the system by which students pick up their clothes. “That’s the
way it has always been and that’s the way we want to keep it,” she says.

ciously.” He assumed the damage was done either Wednesday night or Thursday morning.

Trustees discuss wide range of issues in meeting

“Philosophy of Service” approved, athletics, arts complex included in deliberations

By TRIPP HELMS
Davidson’s Board of Trustees convened here October 6 for their annual fall meeting. The main business of the meeting was
centered around the discussion of issues brought up in the previous winter and spring meetings of the board.

Issues included were the athletic program, the major fundraising campaign, the college’s commitment to service and the college building program.

No major policy changes were made with regard to the athletic program. Trustees were given a full report on the
stipulations of Title 9, a NCAA regulation mandating equitable funding for men’s and women’s sports.

The trustees made no official changes in the athletic program’s budget, but “recognized the need to address the issue” and
will do so more officially in the February meeting, according to President John Kuykendall.

Davidson is still looking for an affiliation with the Colonial Athletic Association, still a possibility. Kuykendall, along with Athletic Director
Kit Morris, continues to pursue this and is planning to meet with the college presidents affiliated with the CAA this
fall.

In response to SGA President Harrison Murray’s appeal to the committee for more intramural and club sports fields, the Trustees
expressed concern that provisions be made for these fields, says Kuykendall.

Any additional budget money for such fields will be allocated at this February’s budget meeting.

The trustees also approved the issuance of a formal apology to those students displaced this fall by the delay in
dorm building schedules.

Plans for the college’s major fundraising campaign were discussed, according to Kuykendall, but a specific goal was not set.

A resolution was passed which stated, “the Trustees of Davidson College affirm that $160 million in new resources are required
in order to accomplish strategic needs by the 1993-94 academic year; and set as items for action at their February,
1989, meeting (1) the authorization of a ‘Campaign for Davidson’ and (2) the setting of an appropriate goal for the
Campaign to be concluded by the 1993-1994 academic year.”

The College “Statement of the PHILOSOPHY OF SERVICE” was approved with some minor changes by the board.

The statement, printed in full below, asserts that “education should encompass more than academic excellence” and that “students should be
prepared to serve their communities—local, regional, national, and international.”

The Buildings and Grounds committee heard a report from Dober and Associates, an architectural consulting firm, on the campus long-range
building plan. Graham Gund and Associates presented some plans for a new fine arts center for Davidson. According to Kuykendall,
the plans were preliminary and a more finalized version will be looked at in a later meeting.

The meeting was presided over by Vice-Chairman of the Board Craig Wall in the absence of the chair, the recently
deceased Ben Craig. Wall is now acting chairman. Kuykendall says that the board will choose its new chair in the
February meeting.

The late Craig was elected to the board by the Mecklenburg Presbytery. It will choose a new representative also to
be installed in February unless, Kuykendall says, “circumstances require someone before that time.”
