Friday, November 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Research with a difference
‘“Ratlab’’ may change the way doctors treat brain damage

By ANJALI SHARMA

Students in psychology professor Julio Ramirez’s neuroscience class are finding out what it’s like to be at the cutting edge
of scientific research.

As part of the Ramirez ‘‘Ratlab’’ research team, they are involved in a study that may have a tremendous impact
on the relatively new field of neuroplasticity. Ramirez’s experiments with rats may someday help doctors treat patients with brain damage.

A senior member of the team, psychology major Ray Harshbarger, said, ‘‘I am really excited. I feel like a pioneer
of sorts in this relatively new field of study. It is only in the last 15-20 years that neuroplasticity has
been studied and within my lifetime there will be more learning and clinical practices in hospitals.’’

Ramirez’s particular area of research is the first of its kind. He is studying the potential use of ganglioside, a
substance naturally present in the brain, in speeding recovery of damaged tissue. Harshbarger explained, ‘‘The biochemical nature of ganglioside is
unknown as yet. Its application was discovered quite by accident when it was used on the control group of an
experiment.’’

Ramirez proposes that ganglioside accelerates the recovery of damaged tissues and protects the neurons from further damage. To prove this,
he and his team first showed that recovery does take place. They taught the rats to run a maze for
a reward of food. After the 10- to 12-day period that it took the rats to learn the maze, students
made lesions on the entorhinal cortex of the rats’ brains by burning the tissue with electrodes.

The entorhinal cortex is ideal for this type of research not only because scientists already know a lot about it,
but also because it is connected to the hippocampus, the neural area associated with learning.

After students made the lesions, they noticed that the rats seemed to forget how to run the maze. The students
injected a synthesized drug form of ganglioside into the rats and began teaching them the maze again. After a 10-
to 12-day period, the rats were able to run the maze once again.

Harshbarger and sophomore biology major Thava Mahadevan said they noticed that the re-learning occurring after a partial lesion is not
hindered even by further tissue damage. Their recovering rats could still run the maze after they made a second lesion
on the animals’ brains.

In another type of experiment, students are trying to teach the rats in what is called a Skinner Box to
press a bar, wait 10 seconds, and press it again for a reward.

See RATLAB, page 6

Senior Chuong Vu and the rest of Ramirez’s ‘‘Ratlab’’ team are on the cutting edge of research.

Photo by Bill Hartman

---

NORTONIZED, from page 4

Beneath shelves stocked with opaque potions like ‘‘Lucky Tiger Hair Tonic,’’ signs of a long life of service hang from
the plaster -- Unit Commissioner of Boy Scouts of America, the Silver Beaver Award for distinguished service to youth, the
M.C. King Humanitarian Award of the Mount Zion Baptist Church.

Why the decades spent busy by the chair? ‘‘It’s just interesting serving people from all walks of life,’’ he says.
‘‘More recently, from all over the world.’’ No, he has no immediate plans to retire. When that time comes he
will indulge in his hobbies of mountain climbing and repelling. ‘‘I ride my bike to keep in shape for repelling
-- my bicycle, I mean.’’ Sometime he hopes to complete his goal of visiting all 50 states; his count is
currently at 35.

If the fidgeting youngster hasn’t shared in our journey into the past, his haircut has. A grubby hand smoothes over
his scalp, and he grimaces at the urchin in the greying mirror. Ah, if only Norman Rockwell were here. Accepting
a wadded bill, Norton hands down his change and an orange lollipop, but the boy is not to be placated.
With a last reproachful gaze at his collegiate nemesis, he trudges out into outlines softened by dusk, unaware that he
has become a part of a history unfolding one day at a time.

---

NATURAL RESOURCES WILL BE CLOSED FROM NOVEMBER 24-27.

---

ARIZONA, from left

After seeing it several times, the humor is still fresh and entertaining. The viewer will either love or hate Raising
Arizona, for there is no middle ground.

The angles parallel the movie, for the viewer is never quite centered in thought or film. In a baby scene,
the camera focuses from high above or on the ground, but never straight on, giving the idea of size differential.
The movie owes much of its style and humor to such imaginative photography.

The movie is highly enjoyable, and even if you despise the film, the direction still bears attention. As a vehicle
for H.I.'s and Ed’s madness, it is perfect. Raising Arizona's pleasant madness makes it an example of the new age
in film direction and a movie worth viewing.

---

BUY ONE GET ONE FREE YOGURT

Trissy Lomax/Owner
128 S. Main Street
704-892-7521
Davidson, NC

COUPON GOOD THROUGH DECEMBER 31
