News

Peace Corps Loan Forgiveness Program

The Peace Corps is offering students the opportunity to eliminate up to 70% of their college loan debts through 2-4 years of service under the Student Loan Forgiveness provision of the Higher Education Act of 1986. For each of the first and second years of Peace Corps service, 15% of a volunteer’s loan, including interest, is cancelled. For each of the third and fourth years of service, 20% of a volunteer’s loan and interest is cancelled. Also, payment on many federally funded student loans is deferred for the duration of Peace Corps service. This program offers much more than financial assistance. It can be “an opportunity for career development, as well as a unique chance to help others.” Volunteers live and work in another country while they put college training and skills to use. For more information, contact your local Peace Corps office or schedule an interview with a Peace Corps representative. For North Carolina, contact Colin Enger, 633 Indiana Ave., NW Room 600, Washington, DC 20004, (800) 424-8580.

Gospel Songfest

The 2nd Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Gospel Songfest sponsored by the Chapel Committee and the Black Student Coalition will be held Sunday, January 17, 1988, at 3:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Gospel choirs from Davidson Presbyterian, Reeves Temple A.M.E. Zion, Gethsemane Baptist, Hunters Chapel United Methodist, Union Bethel A.M.E. Zion, and Torrence Chapel A.M.E. Zion will perform. Reverend Mark A. Lomax, pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, will be the guest speaker. The purpose of the Songfest is to honor and remember Dr. King, but more importantly, to provide the opportunity to come together as a community and college in fellowship and song. There will be a reception immediately following the program in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

Senior Class Gift

The Senior Class Gift Committee is accepting ideas for the Senior Class Gift until January 25. Voting will begin later that week. Current suggestions include a teaching stipend, Chambers desks, handicapped ramps, and a student loan fund. Seniors may contact committee members Mandi Barrett, Barbara Blood, Ginger Broaddus, Conrad Doenges, David Ethridge, David Maynard, Betsy Rothchild, and Julie Walsh, Co-Chairs Allen Compton and Caryn Coppedge, or Class President Dave Cors to contribute their ideas. All serious suggestions will appear on the first ballot.

Educational Loans Available

Three educational loan programs for North Carolina residents attending colleges in or out of state and for non-residents attending colleges in North Carolina are still available through College Foundations, Inc. The Raleigh-based organization offers loans for the entire 1987-88 school year or for specific terms, quarters, or semesters. One program is for dependent or independent students and is based on financial need. One is for independent self-supporting students and is not based on financial need. The third is for parents of dependent students and is not based on financial need. For more information, contact College Foundations, Inc., P.O. Box 12100, Raleigh, NC 27605, (919) 821-4771.

Rape Crisis Changes More Than Name, Expands Services

Results of Human Resource survey show that 12% of Davidson women have been raped at some time

By CALLIE HAMMOND

Rape Crisis has changed its name. This year, the officers of Rape Crisis decided to expand their territory to include such things as pregnancy, birth control, and other aspects of human sexuality. In keeping with this new image, Rape Crisis changed its name to the Human Resources Committee, and sent out surveys to all the female students on campus to see what they want from the committee. One hundred and fourteen surveys were returned to the committee. Several questions permitted more than one response, so percentages may add up to more than one hundred. When a yes-or-no question was left blank, or answered “maybe,” the answer was taken to be a no. After many long hours of hard number-crunching, here are your responses.

96.1% of the women said that, if they were raped, they would go to a friend. 25.5% would go to their parent or parents, and 22.0% to a private physician. However, when help was needed for a friend that had been raped, the top three responses changed. In that instance, 40.7% would go to the Human Resources Committee, 25.8% to the college Counseling Center, and 21.7% to the police.

Since the Committee is changing its image, several questions were asked as to what the students would like the Committee to do. 73.7% answered increasing awareness, 67.5% said counseling, and 52.6% felt that continuing education was important. Only 37.7% believed they would use the Human Resources Committee for counseling for themselves, but 55.3% thought they might go there in situations involving others, and 64.9% said they would goThere to obtain general information about rape and other sexual issues. 64.9% said that they would be interested in having a representative from Planned Parenthood come to the Human Resources office on a regular basis, such as bi-monthly, for counseling on such matters as contraceptives and pregnancy. On the issue of contraceptives, 46.5% said they would like to see condom machines in female bathrooms, and 54.4% in male bathrooms. Said one, “I think it is appalling that there are no well-known sources of contraceptive methods and information on campus -- there are too many women here who have unprotected sex.” Of course, some women were opposed to the idea, and said, “It is offensive,” or, “That would seem to encourage promiscuity.” One woman wrote, “I realize this may be against everything you stand for, but I would like to know just how much of a problem rape is at Davidson.” On the contrary, questions such as this one are exactly what the Committee stands for. In response, 12.3% of the women polled said that they have been forced to have sex after they had said no. If these figures hold true for all females here at Davidson, approximately 74 of our women have been raped. Rape Crisis has changed its name, and its image. As one student put it, “You should be seen as a mature, well-adjusted, even gentle group of men and women whose desire in counseling is to return things to normalcy; whose desire in awareness activities is to approach female and male students as equals, as members of the same age group, as fellow students going through the same traumas.”

SGA Update: Educational Policy Committee meets, dorm schedule unchanged

By ROBERT SMALLEY

In a busy meeting Tuesday night, the SGA Senate heard reports from Rides Committee Chair Jim Taylor, Career Symposium Chair Mary Erwin, and Educational Policy Committee member Pete Mangone. Taylor explained the changes he has made in the airport shuttle service and promised to return at a later date with actual figures from the rides given at Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Spring Break. Mary Erwin went over the schedule for the Career Symposium which will be held next Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. There will be open luncheons and other speakers during these days, and the Senate encourages students to participate.

The Educational Policy Committee, chaired by Dean Williams, is currently trying to implement the change from trimesters to semesters. The Committee is reviewing proposed curriculum revisions from each department, as well as considering possible changes in area requirements. Mangone was unable to give specific details because many important decisions remain to be made. Overall, the area requirements do not seem to be changing very much. There will still be requirements in math/science, religion/philosophy, history, social sciences, fine arts, and literature. Although the matter has not yet been settled, new graduation requirements will probably include English composition, a language, and a non-western course. Mangone expressed the view that the E.P.C. will have curriculum changes finalized in time for implementation during the 1988-89 school year. The Senate will be updated as progress is made.

Finally, SGA President Conrad Doenges relayed Dr. Kuykendall’s assurance that the new dorms are still scheduled to be completed by August.

SINGERS - DANCERS - INSTRUMENTALISTS TECHNICIANS - VARIETY PERFORMERS

Kings Productions, the world’s #1 producer of live entertainment, is holding auditions for the spectacular 1988 season at CAROWINDS, Charlotte, North Carolina. Pay is good and jobs are plenty (we'll even provide one round trip airfare if you're hired to work at a park over 250 miles from your home). Make your audition a show we can't do without!

CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
Sunday, January 24
Carowinds, Midway Music Hall
Singers: 11 AM-1 PM; Dancers & Instrumentalists: 2-3 PM
Specialty Acts, Technicians, Escorts, Hosts, Characters: 11 AM-3 PM.

For additional information:
Carowinds Entertainment Office
Kings Productions
704/588-2606
800/544-5464

KINGS DOMINION • CAROWINDS • CANADA'S WONDERLAND • KINGS ISLAND • GREAT AMERICA • AUSTRALIA'S WONDERLAND
© Kings Productions 1988