Features

“Ho, Ho, Ho! Tis the season... for mail order!
By LISA GERRARD

Remember hours spent poring over the Sears catalogue at Christmas time, picking out toys like nobody’s business... Remember the letters
so confidently penned; an opening like “Dear Santa, I’ve been very good this year,” would work pretty well, maybe something
stronger if your list was really long. Even now that we are all grown up (ha) and spend more time
finding gifts for others than for ourselves, we college students are still enamored with wish books. Representatives of the $148
billion mail order industry say that students compose one of the fastest growing segments of their clientele. We are part
of a new “catalogue generation.”

For many Davidson students, mail order is the way to shop. With final exams immediately preceding the holidays, it is
likely that more Davidson students than ever will be shopping by mail. Mail order is easier than driving into Charlotte
or rushing to buy gifts in the few days at home before the 25th, they say. In a process that’s
simpler than writing to Santa, students pick out items they want and with credit cards in hand, dial companies toll-free
to place orders that arrive in a matter of weeks. Wish books have never looked better.

Sophomore Liz Yarema said, “I'll probably do all my Christmas shopping by mail. I just don’t have the time to
go look for things.” Ann Henry, a marketing analyst at J. Crew of New York City, said that college students
nationwide are discovering the convenience of mail order. J. Crew’s recent market research showed that a substantial portion of their
customers are students. “It’s a relatively new phenomenon to get them in such numbers. We’ve only become aware of it
in the last two or three months, and we’re still exploring it.”

Mail order companies sell a “look” that students say they can’t find in the stores. Sophomores Tina McKenzie and Amanda
Bastian explained it with examples from their favorite catalogue, J. Crew. “All the models look about our age and they’re
doing things you’ve always wanted to do, like making snowballs or wearing a skirt in the snow. It just looks
like a group of friends having fun. They look very active, very casual. It’s healthy, outdoorsy, wholesome.” J. Crew admits
that their catalogue is very image-oriented. “It’s a look that wasn’t out there before,” said Henry. “We’ve zipped up the
very conservative, very basic look.” The result is what McKenzie and her friends call “that simple elegance” -- classic and
sophisticated, but young. “I would love to look like J. Crew,” one student said, but, picking out a $52 belt
she liked, quickly added, “I don’t think I could afford to look like J. Crew.”

How much students order usually depends on who pays the bills. One Davidson student whose parents pick up the tab
said she orders an average of $1,000 a year in clothing. Another said her next order would include a $300
pair of boots. Somehow the prices don’t seem as high to students when they can “put it on the plastic”
and know Mom and Dad will take care of it. According to several students, mothers are a prime reason for
the emerging...catalogue generation on college campuses. “My mom’s been ordering from catalogues for as long as I can remember,” senior
Karin Douglas said. Junior Heather Wright said she grew up with “tons” of catalogues around her house. “I'll go home
and my mom and I will look through the catalogues together and I’ll show her what I like. A lot
of times that’s what I’ll get for Christmas.” Men at Davidson have found unique advantages in mail order, too. For
students like senior John Young, whose dad told him, “Never let a woman pick out your clothes,” ordering from a
catalogue can be the perfect way to bypass shopping sprees with mom. Mail order works particularly well for those who
dislike shopping altogether. Sophomore Clay Adams, who mail-orders about a fourth of his clothes, said he likes using catalogues because
he hates “that browsing stuff.” Freshman Lee Canipe hates shopping too, so when he needs something he tells his mom,
who pulls out catalogues and makes suggestions. “Most of my nice clothes come from mail order,” he said. In order
to make the most of student interest, this month J. Crew is buying student mailing lists and launching a campaign
aimed specifically at college students. Spiegle of Chicago is targeting the student market with a youthful line of merchandise in
a brand new catalogue called “Vibes,” and is participating in a “Glamour Magazine” fashion show currently touring five different colleges.
Spiegle’s Corporate Communications

See CATALOGUES, page 7

How are your grades? Are you studying enough? You aren't skipping classes, are you?

PARENTAL INTERVIEW: Several tips for those home-bound weekends, breaks, and phone calls

A tone of disbelief is best here, but some prefer to sound indignant. The object is to make the parents
feel guilty they even suspected it. A meek “Well, once, but I found it can be very...” also works in
this situation, but be careful not to raise a silly question like “How did you know?” Make such a fuss
that the conversation moves on and they forget you didn't even answer the question.

You don't go to those weekday parties, do you? Are you going to be ready for exams? Do you need
any more money?

For this one, it's best to use your own approach, but if you've been milking your parents, shaking your head
may overdo it, so find a believable balance. Partial confessions sometimes create trouble.
