6 Cinema Classic
Friday, March 25, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cocteau masterfully retells Beauty and the Beast on film
By FRANK LORD

Beauty and the Beast. Directed by Jean Cocteau. Starring Jean Marais and Josette Day. Showing Sat. (3/26) and Tues. (3/29) at 8 PM in Love Auditorium.

Beauty and the Beast. Is there a single person on the Davidson campus who does not know this story? For some reason, I sincerely doubt it. Beauty and the Beast is so frequently told that it has become a fixture in our society. Why, then, does it persist in resurfacing in new versions of older films and even as a TV series? I believe that it is because its truths are so universal that they appeal to all of us no matter what our age or our background.

Unfortunately, this has led to an incredible number of different productions of the film over the years. Now, while it may not be necessary to ask if a person has seen a filmed version of the story, it is necessary to inquire as to which film of the story a person has seen. As you might imagine, some films of this tale are better than others. In my lifetime, I have seen several versions of it which ranged in quality from the good to the rather mundane to the abominable. Fortunately, I can say that of all of those, Cocteau’s is the one that I return to time and time again as a thoroughly enjoyable film that has managed to retain my interest after repeated viewings.

If I were able to set a criterion for people that wished to make new versions of films that had already been made, that criterion would be that they only approach the subject if they felt that they had something new, different, and interesting to contribute to the interpretation of that story. The problem that many versions of Beauty and the Beast suffer from is that they break no new ground and, therefore, ultimately fail to keep their audiences interested. One of the reasons that I am so fond of Cocteau’s film is that it is so different from its companions.

Buzz!! College
By JENNIFER BEAN

“Which U.S. President is well-known for having been nominated in the Blackstone Hotel’s ‘smoke-filled’ room at the Republican convention in 1920?” A red light flashes. “Warren G. Harding!” shouts Davidson College Bowl team member John Hutchinson, receiving ten points for his side. Murmuring encouragements, Hutchinson’s teammates, Cpt. Beth Parker, Gates Granger, and Joe Louderback prepare themselves for the next question. Their opponents, professors Robert Manning, Trent Foley, Richard Cantor, and team alternate Doug Gibson, grip their buzzers in determination, while Hansford Epes, director of Davidson’s team, proclaims the next question a toss-up.

Twice a week, this scene is enacted as Davidson’s College Bowl team prepares for inter-collegiate competition. Presently, they are anticipating the Southeastern Invitational which will be held here at Davidson April 22-23. The competition will be a Round-robin event, involving approximately 20 colleges and universities. In the same manner as the popularized game of Trivial Pursuit, College Bowl questions range from math to literature to history to government. “The only difference,” states sophomore Granger, “is that they’re more difficult.” Although the team practices diligently, the amount of work does not necessarily ensure success. As Hutchinson, a junior, mentioned, “One rarely encounters a ques-

The beginning of the film offers few hints as to what visual treats are in store for us. From the time that Beauty’s father first enters the castle of the Beast, it becomes immediately obvious that this film will be quite different from anything that we could have expected. As the Father steps cautiously up to the door of the castle, it opens, but there is no one inside to greet him. Once inside, he is confronted with a long hallway, the walls of which are linedwith human arms that move and hold candelabrum that light by magic. In this film, Cocteau has strayed a bit from the typical line of the story and ultimately involves bits of stories as diverse as Cinderella and the myth of the Greek goddess Diana. He uses these not as diversions from the central theme and plot of the standard narrative of the fairy tale, but rather, as a means of enriching it and making it his own tale rather than a filmed version of someone else’s. Ultimately, however, the thing that I believe makes Cocteau so fascinating is his obsessive, almost fetishistic use of personal symbols that recur as themes in almost all of his cinematic works. The two that come to mind almost immediately are the mirror and the glove. Both of these symbols occur in Beauty and the Beast and cannot help but remind me of another Cocteau film: Orpheus. In both films, mirrors are used as gateways to other places or as a means of viewing events that take place far away from that of the filmed action, and gloves are used as a magical means of transportation. A precise interpretation of these symbols may be possible—there are certain events and general trends within Cocteau’s life that might explain them—but I shall not begin to attempt to explain them here. Instead, I would simply suggest that as you watch the film, be conscious of them and perhaps try to come to grips with them in your own mind. I can only say that I am an unabashed fan of this film in particular and Cocteau’s visual style in general. From either the approach of a casual viewer who enjoys Beauty and the Beast or the approach of someone who is interested in Cocteau’s unique approach to cinema, it cannot help but be an enjoyable experience. Dr. Singerman of the French Department will give a brief introduction to the film before the Saturday showing.

Scene from Cocteau’s Beauty and the Beast. You guess which is which.

Bowl prepares for invitational competitions in previously covered practice mainly serves to quicken reaction and response time. The team has a tough image to uphold. A trophy displayed in the Big Screen Room of the Union proclaims Davidson’s National Championship status in 1979, when they defeated Harvard University at Miami Beach. Unfortunately, for the trivia-minded students, College Bowl team members retain their positions until graduation. The present team members were selected by Epes during the ’86-’87 school year. However, there are a variety of active intramural teams which compete between October and January, providing a chance for everyone to get involved!

Angry with your publisher? We know the story. The boys down at Doubleday have screwed up again, and those crowds of screaming fans are going to have to wait another six months to see your next novel. Instead of flying off to Tahiti to sulk, why don’t you submit some juicy excerpts to us? They'll be published in less than two weeks, and your public will love you for it! Call 892-6059 for details. Submit to Inside Art.

1988 SUMMER SESSION UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA CHAPEL HILL

Academic Calendar
Term I: May 16 - June 21
Term II: June 23 - July 29

Cost: NC Resident - Undergraduate
1-5 hours $152; 6-8 hours $215

UNC-CH offers, during two 5-1/2 week terms, one of the largest summer programs in the United States. Over 800 courses are scheduled in 40 disciplines. A typical course load per term is two classes of three semester hours each. For summer visiting students*, our "Open Admissions Policy" makes possible the opportunity for students from other colleges and universities to attend UNC-CH. *This admission does not obligate the University to admit these students for the academic year.

Name
Street
City
State
Mail to: Summer Session, CB# 3340, Peabody Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599
Phone: 919-962-1009 (AA/EEO Institution)