Thursday, September 22, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts

N.C. Legislative Intern Programs

Applications for the 14th internship program with the North Carolina General Assembly are now available from Dr. Abraham Holtzman in
the Department of Political Science and Public Administration at North Carolina State University. Juniors and seniors at all North Carolina
four-year colleges and universities are eligible. Fourteen interns will be chosen for the program, which is sponsored by NCSU and
the N.C. General Assembly. Deadline for the completed application, an official transcript, and three letters of reference is the end
of the business day Monday, Oct. 24, 1988. These materials should be sent or delivered to Holtzman, director of the
Legislative Internship Program, 224 Caldwell Hall, Box 8102, NCSU, Raleigh, NC 27695-8102.

The interns will serve as staff assistants to chairpersons and official leaders of the N.C. Senate and House of Representatives
that meet in 1989 and will pursue a parallel course of study at NCSU during the spring semester, beginning January
6, 1989. The General Assembly will convene on January 11. Each intern will gain 12 semester hours of credit for
transfer to his or her college or university. Interns will work a minimum of 25 hours each week at the
General Assembly for the approximately 22 weeks of the session. They will be paid $200 per week. Students of history,
economics, political science, and sociology are invited to apply.

Davidson selected for 14-school collaborative program in Humanities

Davidson College is one of 14 leading liberal arts colleges in the Southeast participating in an innovative partnership with Emory
University called the Interdisciplinary Collaborative Program in the Humanities. Supported by a $475,000 grant from the New York-based Charles A.
Dana Foundation, Inc., the program is aimed at revitalizing teaching and scholarship in the humanities.

The four-year Collaborative Program in the Humanities will allow faculty from the 14 campuses to complete year-long residential sabbatical fellowships
in Emory’s Graduate Institute of the Liberal Arts. During their residencies, Fellows will participate in a program of study, research,
and new course development which will benefit their home institutions while also enriching the mix of interdisciplinary perspectives within the
Emory community.

Robert C. Williams, Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty at Davidson, said, “This partnership provides exciting
opportunities for interaction of humanities faculty from liberal arts colleges and universities. It particularly provides for ongoing revitalization of senior
faculty members.” The first Fellows, nominated by their institutions, will begin their residencies at Emory in fall 1989. During the
residencies, the products of the Fellows’ efforts will be shared through seminars, team-teaching, faculty meetings, and student mentorship. Post-residency information-sharing
will be accomplished through annual conferences, professional societies, and publications.

First Charter Bank endows music series at Davidson College

The First Charter Bank of Concord, N.C., has committed $50,000 to create a music endowment honoring the Coltrane family of
Concord and its ties to Davidson College. “In the 100th year of business for First Charter Bank, we were looking
for a way in which to honor the Coltrane family, which has been an integral part of the bank since
its founding,” says President and Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Kimbrough ’63. “Four members of the Coltrane family are Davidson alumni,
and we decided that an ongoing endowment to Davidson College would be a fitting memorial to them.”

The endowment will help support an annual six-concert series slated to begin in the winter of 1988. The inaugural concert
is scheduled for December 9 in Love Auditorium. The concert will feature pianist Alexander Peskanov, who made his debut with
the National Symphony in Washington. Peskanov has recently completed a tour of the United States with the Polish Philharmonic Chamber
Orchestra. He has performed with the Baltimore Symphony, the St. Louis Symphony, and the English Chamber Orchestra in London, England.

Doctoral Fellowships in biological sciences

The Howard Hughes Medical Institute is awarding 60 fellowships for full-time study toward a Ph.D. or Sc.D. degree in biological
sciences. Awards are for three years, with an option to extend the fellowship for two additional years. Stipends are $12,300
annually and a $10,700 annual cost-of-education allowance is provided to the fellowship institution on behalf of each fellow. There are
no citizenship requirements, but foreign nationals must study in the United States. The application deadline is November 14, 1988. For
information and applications, write Hughes Doctoral Fellowships, The Fellowship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20418.

Free 11:00 hour offers variety of speakers, programs

Semester scheduling made it possible to leave the hour from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. free for all students. There
are no classes scheduled during this time. The College sponsors a variety of programs.For the hour. Tuesday is primarily devoted
to some sort of worship service. Participants in this service include faculty and staff members and students. Thursday has been
reserved for speakers, panel discussions, open forums, and other activities. The schedule and locations for the events of the next
four weeks are as follows:

Thursday, September 22: Campus forum on parties at Davidson. The Gallery.
Tuesday, September 27: Worship led by Tripp Helms and members of the Stapel Committee. The Gallery.
Thursday, September 29: Reception for new faculty sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee. Front of Chambers; in case of rain,
Baxter Davidson Room, Chambers.
Tuesday, October 4: Worship led by Dr. Jack Perry. Topic: The Christian Encounters World Affairs. The Gallery.
Thursday, October 6: Panel: 1988 Election - Domestic Issues. Panelists: Professors Clark Ross, Peter Hess, Tom Kazee, John Haskell. The
Gallery.
Tuesday, October 11: Worship - Holy Communion. The Gallery.

Freshman current events test results have been compiled. The result: this year’s freshman class is just a little more knowledgeable
in the area of current events than the class of ’89. This year, like the seven years before, the freshmen
took a current events test during orientation. The test was administered by Dr. Hansford Epes, a member of the International
Education Committee. The test is divided into two parts: the current events section and the map section. Each student received
two grades on a scale of 0 to 100. One grade is for the total of the two parts and
the other includes just the map section. Out of a sample of 343 people, the average freshman score is 54
for the combined parts and 58 for the map part. This can be compared to scores of 51 and 57.5,
respectively, for the class of ’89. Thus, the test is either getting easier or the freshmen are getting smarter.

By DAVID BEARCE

There is some reason to suggest, however, that the test is getting easier. Dr. Epes stated that he changed five
questions, “about 15 to 20 percent of the test,” but he “deliberately used the same map.” As a result, a
comparison between the scores of different classes is not very useful or accurate. This year’s scores ranged from 10 to
98 for the combined parts and from 0 to 100 for the map. The lowest score ever at Davidson College
is a 6. Only one student in the seven years that the test has been given at Davidson has ever
achieved a perfect 100 on both parts. Males have a tendency to do much better than females on the current
events test. The average male score is 59 compared to 47 for the females. Dr. Epes stated that this “range
has been consistent” throughout the years. Epes hypothesized that there is perhaps a “cultural conditioning of women” that does not
push them to read or be concerned about the news. But he added that the “source of the best students
in International Studies [at Davidson] are women.”

Epes remarked that the “knowledge of the map is getting better.” Even though the scores may not indicate a big
improvement, he cited that there were fewer “off-the-wall answers.” “Schools are pushing more geography and we are beginning to see
the results,” Epes concluded. However, many “off-the-wall” responses were reported. A “whole lot of people” thought China and the USSR
are part of NATO, stated Dr. Epes. Pearl Harbor was identified as being in California. Bolivia showed up in Africa.
South Africa was placed in South America. One student even wrote that Hiroshima was bombed in 1847. But Epes noticed
some even more disturbing trends. Only 30% of the freshmen were able to identify George Schultz as the Secretary of
State. One third of the population of the United States was listed anywhere between one million and several billion. This
demonstrates a reason for concern, according to Dr. Epes. “Faculty members take for granted” that students “can read, write, and
cipher, but that assumption may be invalid” for our generation. But Epes wanted to emphasize the positive aspect of the
test results. It was “not an easy test,” and included “open-ended questions” with “no multiple-choice responses.” “Given the constraints,” Epes
was surprised that the results were not worse, but disappointed that they were not better. Freshmen will get back their
tests in late October. There will be a team coming to each freshman hall to discuss the results and suggest
ways to improve international awareness at Davidson College.
