Thursday, October 27, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

---

"Repose" W. Mall and his PARENTS WEEKEND.

(As only Freddie C. could experience.)

Oh, sorry I'm late, I uh, invited my parents.

Listen, Dad, mind if I sit with Suzie's family at the play? You don't mind, do you?

Really Dad, it's not that I don't want to sit with you, but... Be careful Freddie, do you need me
to get you some deodorant?

---

1918, from page 4

playwright’s style. “Horton Foote is an ‘actor’s playwright,’” Barber said. “He does not write everything. His scripts are almost skeletal,
leaving most things out for the actors to flesh out.”

The cast devoted the first few weeks of rehearsal to simply reading through and discussing the script. Through the discussions,
they began to understand the mindset of the World War I era and the impact of the year’s domestic flu
epidemic, which killed more than 20 million people worldwide. One of Barber’s production strategies was an invitation to Davidson doctor
Bill Williams to explain to the cast the terrible impact of epidemics in days prior to drugs such as penicillin
or sulfa.

It was also challenging for Barber to help students understand the attitudes of the times. “Warfare was romanticized. The country
really never knew how horrible trench warfare was because those who returned seemed to have an unwritten pact not to
dispel romantic visions of the ‘Great War.’

“Patriotism ran deep during World War I. On every available spot one saw posters urging Americans to ‘Buy Liberty Bonds.’
Woodrow Wilson led America out of isolationism into the war with enthusiasm. By 1918, America was the protector of the
free world. Even the songs of the era were wildly patriotic with titles like ‘America Here’s My Son’ and ‘Over
There.’ This was a singing war.”

Period clothing was not as foreign for the actors. The war changed women’s dress drastically between 1916 and 1918, but
adjusting to period costumes was not difficult. “Skirts were way above the ankle,” Barber said, “so we didn’t have to
teach the women to walk in hoop skirts. Corsets were out of style.”

Horton Foote has made a name for himself primarily through his screenplays To Kill a Mockingbird and Tender Mercies. In
the preface to a collection of Foote’s plays, Reynolds Price calls him “one of the major playwrights of our time
who has not been fully recognized.” Commonweal’s Marian Burkhart claims that Foote may be America’s greatest playwright.

1918 is one of a nine-play circle written about Foote’s family. Foote’s forte is characterization. The set was designed by
professor Joe Gardner, who has also designed portable sets for the Charlotte Repertory productions this year in Charlotte and Davidson.

1918 will play October 27-29 in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building at Davidson College. It begins at
7:30 p.m. on October 27 and 8 p.m. on all other nights. General admission is $5, and $3 for students
and senior citizens.

Special thanks to Michele E. Miller for her help on this article.

---

"For all your bicycling needs!"

We Carry: Pinarello and Derosa

Campus Repair, Pick-Up, and Delivery

Just Call: 663-8812

Located only six miles away: 170 N. Main St. Mooresville
