Monday, December 5, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Football division change will affect other sports as well

By MARGARET CARROLL

The proposal by the Executive Committee and Athletics Policy Committee of Davidson’s Board of Trustees may have both a positive and negative impact on other Davidson varsity sports. Athletic Director Christopher B. “Kit” Morris claims that the move has a potential for impact with athletes who play more than one sport, and the reallocation of funds which would result from such a move could also strengthen some of the college’s non-revenue sports programs.

Baseball coach Jim Stoeckel feels that the move will “most definitely” affect baseball, since there are five baseball players who play football also. Due to the redistribution of financial aid under the proposed plan, the players might only be able to play football. Stoeckel is concerned about what the players will do. Last year’s two leading hitters, junior Peter Hughes and sophomore Ralph Isernia, play both baseball and football. Also, two freshmen recruits, Nicky Crawford and Derek Twombly, and junior Brian Kelly play both sports. Thus, the impact on baseball could be devastating. Stoeckel claims that if the team were to lose the roughly five out of twenty-four players there would be “no way to replace them.” The move may also drastically hinder recruiting efforts this year since the baseball team actively recruits students who play football also. The baseball team will continue to play the same Division I teams, but if the team loses any of the five it “will hurt competitiveness,” says Stoeckel.

As far as women’s sports are concerned, the proposal will have no real effect. Volleyball coach Rebecca Hawkins says that the volleyball team will continue to play highly competitive teams. If there were any really competitive Division III teams, Davidson would play them; however, the teams in Division III would not be a challenge, according to Hawkins. Field hockey coach Betsy Pryor agrees that the move will have an overall impact on non-revenue sports. “The money within...

See EFFECTS, page 4.

Athletic Director Christopher B. “Kit” Morris meets the press. Photo by Alex Hayden

FINANCIAL AID, from p. 2

...play could receive these monies. “It’s just real complicated. In trying to be fair to everyone, what we’re trying to do is provide a range of options for them,” said Morris. This plan to continue Wildcat funds may give many current players a reason to stay and then quit the team, as participation in football could cause them to be liable for up to $3,500 in jobs and loans. The entire team could opt out next season. “That’s an option that they will have, and that’s a bridge we’ll have to cross when we get to it,” said Morris.

Specific spending of Wildcat Club funds is left to the discretion of the director of athletics. Since 1980, however, members have been able to direct their donations specifically to special interest groups in a variety of sports. “Last year, they supported a wider range of sports with more money than ever before,” says Morris. Effects of a division change on the Wildcat Club’s fundraising remain to be seen. Carnegie says he is awaiting a decision from the full trustee board before he starts thinking about changes. “We’ll just have to wait and see,” he said. He went on to add, “The only year we ever had a decrease in funds was in ’74 when the decision to move from scholarship to need-based assistance was made, but our support went back up the following year.”in division will not affect the financial aid of dual-sport athletes, such as those who play football and baseball. As long as the players give up football, they will qualify for the funds since baseball players are Division I athletes. “We’re not violating any internal policies or NCAA rules by allowing them to keep the Wildcat Club funds,” says Morris. “It’s my personal hope that all the fellows who’ve played football will stay at Davidson College, but I’m not sure how likely that is. I think we’ve proved in recent years that we’re running a bona fide Division I baseball team and the success of the team in the last four seasons has been outstanding. We hope that that will be an attraction also and whether those guys would need the financial aid packaging to say ‘I’m staying,’ well, it’s up to them,” Morris said. “There are some very key individuals on the team who are baseball-football dual-sport athletes. We are concerned, and we hope that they’ll stay.”

Peck said that the players he has spoken with are not considering leaving for primarily financial reasons. “The desire to play Division I football is the key motivation.”

“I hope players are not at Davidson solely for football,” said Rob Gardner, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. “That’s not what we’re all about. The current core of athletes in the football program could make for a great program.” Gardner said a Division III move could have a very positive effect on Davidson’s future. “It would give Davidson advantages it never previously enjoyed by stressing its academic reputation. In recruiting, we would no longer be competing with the Ivy Leagues or the scholarship schools; we would have the competitive edge over other Division III schools, a selling point we didn’t previously have.” However, Gardner says, it is still too early to judge what effect a division move will have on admissions. The composition of next year’s freshman class will be closely watched.

In response to allegations that a division change will affect minority enrollment, Gardner said, “I don’t expect it to impact it at all. We currently have many sound ways to recruit minority students, and we’re exploring more. It’s been a shortcoming in our admissions that we’re really working to overcome. People need to get away from the unhealthy stereotype of the black athlete.” Gardner noted coincidentally that of the five or six minority students who have applied for early admission this year, none are athletes.

For the first time ever, students recruited to play football are applying early decision; this year there are six. If the move out of Division I-AA passes, however, these students would not be bound to the early decision agreement to attend Davidson. The admissions office considers athletes on a different schedule than non-athletes. Currently, students recruited to play football are accepted on a rolling admission basis in order to allow contracts to be signed. Admissions in the past has followed the trustee recommendation concerning the number of potential football players in each class. This number has been set to help build the team, with 30 being the target for this year, although the present circumstances raise some question as to the attainability of that goal.

Gardner says that the key to recruiting is targeting. “At Davidson, we’re looking for academic, all-American kids who are also interested in athletics; that’s the image that best fits with our philosophy of a liberal arts education.”