6 Monday, April 4, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Save your trash: recycling begins Environmental Weeks

By LISA GERRARD

The slogan: “GET WASTED ... materials out of your life.” The occasion: a recycling drive that kicks off Davidson’s first
Environmental Weeks. The prime instigator: Charles Tambiah, Biology Society president, seen on page one of this issue with fellow collaborator
Ryan.

Environmental Weeks, April 3-16, confront issues such as wildlife conservation and nuclear technology. Tambiah and other Biology Society members are
working with the College Union to bring distinguished speakers to the campus. The organizers have planned a variety of activities
that include several presentations by Davidson students. Their goals are to increase general environmental awareness on the campus and to
show their peers how they also can plan projects that protect and enrich the environment.

Students can get involved with Environmental Weeks by saving their paper, plastic, glass, and aluminum products for an April 11
collection on the Union Patio. Patterson Court houses are included in the recycling drive; Tambiah said that his group is
enlisting members of each house to organize individual collections.

Students may also contribute to the Union Gallery exhibition of April 3-16. Those interested should submit photography, artwork, and writings
concerning an environmental theme to the Union desk through Sunday, April 3.

Other events of Environmental Weeks:

Monday, April 4
7 p.m. 900 Room
Speaker: Dr. Karen Eckert, Wider Caribbean Sea Turtle Recovery Team
Topic: Multilateral Resource Conservation

Tuesday, April 5
12:30 p.m. 900 Room
Open Luncheon: Panel Discussion by the Davidson College Recycling Committee
Topic: Proposed recycling plan for Davidson College

Tuesday, April 5
7 p.m. 900 Room
Panel Discussion: Dr. John Croom, Systems Ecologist; Mr. Robert Koehler, McGuire Nuclear Station; Mr. Jessy Riley, Research Scientist with the
Sierra Club
Topic: Nuclear Technology: Societal Advantages and Disadvantages

Wednesday, April 6
Union Patio
Tree Planting

Tuesday, April 12
7 p.m. 900 Room
Thesis Presentation: Charles Tambiah
Topic: Biology and Conservation of Sea Turtles in Sri Lanka

Thursday, April 14
7 p.m. 900 Room
Thesis Presentation: Shawnee Verner
Topic: Risk Assessment in the Nuclear Weapons Complex
Thesis Presentation: Wes Hofferbert
Topic: Health Care Delivery in Zambia

Davidson students, faculty march for Central American peace

By JAY BARRON

Last Sunday, a group of Davidson students and faculty members participated in the first day of a statewide walk for
peace in Central America. The Pilgrimage for Peace began in six cities throughout North Carolina, and culminated on Saturday, April
2, in Raleigh with a large rally to demonstrate “solidarity” for peace in Central America.

The walk is being organized by a coalition of groups including the North Carolina Council of Churches, Witness for Peace,
and the Carolina Interfaith Task Force on Central America (CITCA). The Pilgrimage drew an enthusiastic crowd to the Charlotte starting
point at UNCC. Following a few opening remarks and a prayer, the walkers moved out onto the highway led by
a bright banner reading “Create Peace in Central America.”

Although the Davidson participants walked only the first 14-mile leg of the route, several Charlotte-area activists will be joined by
other local groups as they continue to Raleigh. According to Jake Golden, a Charlotte minister who has spent time in
Nicaragua and was aboard a boat captured by the Contras there two years ago, the idea of walking for peace
is based upon the Nicaraguan “via cruces,” or “way of the crosses,” an ancient tradition that was revived in Nicaragua
by Father Miguel D’Escoto, currently the Nicaraguan foreign minister. The walk demonstrates a desire for peace during the Easter Season.

The walkers Sunday carried white crosses bearing the names of Central American victims of violence, including an American nun who
was murdered along with four other women in El Salvador in 1980, a group of Nicaraguan men killed by the
Contras, and a Swiss citizen martyred.in the Nicaraguan countryside who had worked with Reverend Golden in protesting the violence. In
a service held following the walk, Golden spoke about his friend’s violent death, and a photo he has of him
pounding a wooden cross similar to those carried on Sunday into the ground on the site of the murder of
other Nicaraguans. Davidson professor Sandy Kemp was among the walkers on Sunday. She said the walk was about “standing up
and walking for what you believe in, peace. This is especially true in Nicaragua, because we are actively fighting there.”

The Crere - Everyone Drink Your Clon Write awn You Caner Dana Te ~~ a Dime Carey Forward - WHEN
You Shout, You Shout ON The Suckers Next To You. — Always Walk Counter ~~ Pace Yourself, Don’t Trip Please
Don’t Ever Dance! You’ll See How Silly You Are. The Dead Things To Look For — Drunk Freshman Girls, —
Mark Beer. — [Imports Cease, Covers] — A Beer There.

When asked if people would view the walk as just another anti-Contra protest, she said she hoped it would be
seen as more widely-based, because it represents not only Nicaragua, but all of Central America. In addition, the timing of
the walk, during the Easter season, highlights the Christian concern for peace. Ellen Ott, a freshman, said that her friends
reacted differently when she told them about her involvement in the Pilgrimage. “Some laughed,” she said, “some said good or
asked questions. I haven’t heard any really derogatory comments, but maybe I just haven’t talked to the right people,” she
laughed. Ott said the walk made her feel great, especially since, as a student at Davidson she sometimes feels indecisive.
“I should spend more time helping and doing something other than being a student,” she said.

Another faculty member who took part was Political Science Professor Brian Shaw. He pointed out that the walk was not
only on behalf of Nicaragua, but also El Salvador and Guatemala, and some of the other “less heralded” nations involved
in the violence. In reference to El Salvador, Shaw stated:

“Human rights violations are increasing in El Salvador, a country which has become, for all intents and purposes, a North
American client,” said Shaw. “We are becoming increasingly involved in a very nasty war.”

Charles Gowing got involved because a friend of his is in the 82nd Airborne, the American soldiers sent to Honduras
as part of the U.S. “show of force.” “As a physics major, I sometimes feel I know shamefully little about
Central America, but I learned a lot on Sunday.” Gowing went on to say that even the little he did
know before told him that peace through force is not the way. “It was an opportunity to show that I
believe in peace, and not just in Central America,” he said. One marcher carried a sign on Sunday saying “I’m
against the Contras!” Gowing disagreed with this sentiment, saying “we can’t be against anybody. We’ve got to look at them
as people, just like the Sandinistas, the Guatemalans, and the Salvadorans.”

The Move Comes at Njarl Board Only J ~{ (Lriants’ and ; For Wessites) _ Fkiw Canny It Giese TS
Your Body, Facing Outwards To Burn The Chump Next To You. Things To Avoid Forgetting A Brother’s Name, Walking Clockwise.

THURSDAY FOO . Ream A
