Friday, January 15, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wrestling falls in two tough meets
By HOLME OLTROGGE

Within one week, the Davidson wrestling team competed in two meets. On Wednesday night (Jan 6), the squad hosted Olivet Nazarene from Illinois, which was on tour through the Southeast. In the meet against Olivet, Davidson’s Holme Oltrogge, Holt Foster, and co-captain Tim Heinze took forfeits at the 118, 150, and 177-pound weight classes respectively. Unfortunately, Davidson in turn gave up two forfeits at 126 and 190, where Matt McConnell was still out due to shoulder injuries. Foster and Heinze also wrestled exhibition matches; Foster barely won his match 9-8, while Heinze lost to a hulk 13 pounds heavier. Dylan Glenn (134) and Joe Binns (142) could do nothing as they fell to their opponents. Co-captain Sherb Sentell likewise dropped his match at 158, despite a great start. Newcomer Chris Hargrove (167) gave a tremendous effort before being pinned in his first collegiate match. Not-so-heavy Aengus Channon tried to pick on someone 50 pounds over his weight and twice as big around, but to no avail.

Again on January 13, the Cats traveled to Greenville, SC to meet conference rival Furman. The team fared much better, falling only 18-31. Big wins came from freshmen Joe Binns (142) and Holt Foster (150). Binns wrestled consistently to win 13-5. Foster shut out his opponent and scored enough to win by a technical fall. Co-captains Heinze and Sentell also beat their opponents. Heinze won by forfeit, but also beat a 190-pounder in an exhibition match. Sentell handily defeated his opponent in a 6-3 match. Unfortunately, the Wildcats gave up too many forfeits. Starting 18 points in the hole, the team could not sufficiently make up the deficit.

Around the Horn
"Rucker at the Line"
By HAP BRYANT

The outlook wasn’t brilliant
For the Wildcat Five that night;
They trailed by 5 big points
With 30 seconds left in sight.
But, with the hope that springs eternal
Within the human breast,
The crowd still thought with Rucker
They’d pass this one stiff test.

He let fly a long one,
Now he sprinted down the court
With Skippy on his tail;
The Miners’ sons cried loud
When it hit the strand of net.
The Herd had not won yet,
So he marched onto the court,
The former thinking M.V.P.,
The latter doomed to fail.
Himes thought, “If he misses this,
I’ll tear him limb from limb.”

The Cats still trailed by two,
And Skippy had the ball;
With only ten seconds left,
It seemed he had it all.
But Huckaby called for time--
Oh, if Derek Rucker
Could get a shot in time,
They’d bet their Daddy’s B-mers
And the shot went through the net
And thus it tied the score;
Then Rucker had a shot,
What an idiot he seemed--
As the Herd fell down to second,
Their ego bubble burst;
Then Derek drove into the lane,
From whence he took his shot;
But Skippy crushed him from behind,
And the zebra marked the spot.
For Rucker hit the throw,
And Skippy went back to Marshall
With a thousand losers in tow.refs had hosed his team. To get us one point more. The Ne’er Defeated Wildcats. With Rucker at the line. Retook their spot in first. So, with seven left to play, Huckaby called his last T.O. And so, when Hunter missed a shot, The Herd had to make a pass; With 2 seconds on the clock, [As for this little verse, And Magic did the same, But against the Davidson Cats, Hoping to ice the shooter Thanks go to Mighty Casey, A discontented yell went up It would be old Skippy’s last. And make the game a lock. I’d have thought up my own rhyme scheme, From the students at the game. Had not I been so lazy.] When Skippy hit the ball, But Rucker sat, he wasn’t phased But Hunter made a steal, Tom Curry moved to him; By this ignorant ploy; Then passed to top of key, But Rucker darted in front, He thought, “When I hit this one, Where Rucker stood awaiting And snatched it from his limb. The crowd will scream with joy.” To pull another three.

IMAC Report
Forget NCAA basketball
By MATT TERRELL

Forget the Tarheels and the Blue Devils. When did they learn to play basketball in Arizona anyway? Who needs Fennis Dembo when, in our own Johnston Gym, IMAC basketball is in motion? Yes, folks, you guessed it—the hallowed hall of hoops is alive once again with the sound of dribbling basketballs, whistles blowing, and more often than not, referee baiting. Shh, the sounds of IMAC basketball.

The 1987-88 campaign kicked off December 2nd and is scheduled to run through February 17th, the night of the Championship. The field looks strong this year with 6 women’s teams, 16 men’s A-league teams, and 33 men’s B-league teams. With 55 teams in competition, it’s no wonder Davidson weeknights see the students clad in their sweats and high-tops.

The men’s A-league has seen a few teams emerge from early season play unscathed. Through last week’s play, four teams, “Cool Breeze” of BSC, “King Cobra” of SAE, “Raji and Mate’s Chairbreakers” of KA, and the “Sweatjammers” of KA, remained undefeated. As is common with A-league play, the scores have been high and the teams competitive. Look for a great season with even the sixteenth place team being a force to be reckoned with.

Women’s league play has been seldom (three rescheduled games), but the perennial power, the “Insatiables,” and the “Clueless Freshmen” top the standings thus far with undefeated marks. The “Insatiables” appear impressive with one 54-point victory. The “Clueless Freshmen,” having played only two games, have been strong with 20- and 27-point victories. The contest between the two teams should prove a battle.

Men’s B-league play has seen a bit more parity with only four teams of the thirty-three undefeated. “Chips Ahoy” of SPE top Division I. Division II sees “Where’s Lenny?” emerging as the lone leader. In Division III, “Slagle’s Bagels” prove undefeated with two games under their belt. “Cooters Nest” heads up Division IV. After a slew of close games (how about the “Goofy Heads” over the “Damned Comanches” 16-15), the upcoming continuation looks to be a dandy. IMAC is once again in full swing, and the court looks strong. Look for an exciting season tourney down in the Johnston Gym.

Davidson

MON.-THURS. — 9-5
Fri. 9-6

WE HAVE CLIFF NOTES

Cliffs Notes answer your questions about literature as you study and review. Each is designed to help improve your grades and save you time. Come in and see our Cliffs Notes display.

THE SCARLET LETTER

Available at:
DAVIDSON
704-892-6841