Thursday, October 20, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Photo courtesy of Sports Information and Radford College.

Field Hockey  
Wildcats beat Salem 4-0  
By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

Davidson’s field hockey team defeated Salem College 4-0 last Tuesday to up its record to 4-7-1. Scoring for the Cats were sophomore Gigi Cooke, senior Suzanne Mauze, sophomore Marjorie Havighurst, and freshman Margaret Carr.

Last weekend, October 8-10, Davidson traveled to Virginia to play three teams: Roanoke College, Randolph-Macon Women’s College, and Radford College. The Wildcats downed Randolph-Macon 1-0, but fell to Roanoke and Radford by identical 2-0 scores. Cooke got the only Davidson goal.

Coach Betsy Pryor commented on the first game against Roanoke: “We outplayed them everywhere except in scoring. We outshot them 22-13 but kept shooting wide of the cage.” Pryor was pleased, however, with the hustle shown by the team and better support at midfield.

The second game against Randolph-Macon was completely dominated by the Davidson offense as the Cats outshot the opposition 27-5. Cooke’s goal came with about four minutes to play in the contest.

The final game against Radford was the toughest match of the weekend. Radford is accustomed to playing teams which give scholarships to most of the players on the team—a step above Davidson’s Deep South opponents. “It was a one-sided game,” said Pryor, “but we did all right considering the pressure (that they put on us).” Radford had 31 shots on goal to Davidson’s four and was awarded ten penalty corners to the Cats’ two. Also, Alison Chapman recorded 13 goalie saves for the afternoon.

NOTE: Davidson’s next home game is this Saturday against the University of the South at 10:30 AM.

Volleyball gets twenty-win season for first time  
By CHANDLER SHEPPARD

The Davidson College women’s volleyball team defeated Columbia College last Saturday to reach the twenty-game win mark for the first time in the team’s history. This is a surprise for coach Rebecca Hawkins, who, at the beginning of the year, predicted that the Wildcats would win about ten games. Hawkins credits the success of the team to the improved defense and stronger hitting.

En route to the twentieth win, the Wildcats have put together a twelve-game winning streak and a 7-1 record at home. Last weekend the Cats put together a strong effort in the UNC-Asheville Tournament in order to beat UNC-Asheville, a team that defeated Davidson earlier in the year, 15-7, 15-11. The Cats lost in the semi-final match to Georgia State, the eventual tournament champions.

The team then traveled to Hickory to take on Lenoir-Rhyne. Davidson won without difficulty to win game number 17. Davidson next put its undefeated home record on the line against Catawba College only to come up empty-handed. Catawba won in the third game of a best of three.

Winning twenty games in a season is quite an accomplishment for the young Davidson program, considering that this is only the third year of varsity volleyball at Davidson. Key factors in the success of the Wildcats are Ellen Ott and Molly Graver. “Molly and Ellen don’t receive a lot of recognition, but they are the backbone of our team,” said Hawkins.Game match. Hawkins was disappointed by the loss. “We could have won, but our mental mistakes hurt us.” Davidson bounced back handily to defeat Belmont Abbey in the second match of the doubleheader by a score of 15-1, 15-9. This gave the Cats their 18th win of the season. 

Friday night, the team destroyed Augusta College, which moved them to within one game of reaching the twenty-win mark. This came the following night as Davidson played Columbia College in Columbia. “Credit,” says coach Hawkins, “but they play tough volleyball from game to game.” The consistency of Ott and Graver has helped to lead the team throughout the year. Graver’s specialty is the big defensive play, while Ott “is a clutch player,” always there for the crucial points.

Tonight the Wildcats will take on UNC-C in Johnston Gym. This could very well turn out to be the battle of Mecklenburg County. The Wildcats are considered underdogs, but according to Hawkins, “If we have a good crowd turnout, and if UNC-C comes into our gym overconfident, there could be an upset.”

Senior Maria Douglas and freshmen Mimi Plauche and Holt Hathaway celebrate one of many victorious moments. Photo courtesy of Sports Information.

Player profiles: Freshmen Plauche and Hathaway
By MARY FAITH MOUNT

Two exciting freshmen volleyball players, Mimi Plauche and Holt Hathaway, have already received Player of the Week awards in their first semester at Davidson. All coaches of varsity sports at Davidson vote on the award, and the honoree’s picture is posted in the bottom floor of Johnston Gym.

Plauche and Hathaway have been playing together for a little over a month now, but are already forming a successful “Freshman Connection.” They complement each other on and off the court. Hathaway says of Plauche, “She’s a very versatile player. She can hit almost anything you put up.” Plauche points out that setters are supposed to be in control of the court, and Hathaway is: “She decides the smartest play. She gets to every ball.”

Both players began volleyball early. Plauche began honing her skills in sixth grade with her mother, her mentor for the next three years. She has always been a hitter whether playing for her high school team in Illinois, USVBA, or Chicago area club teams. Hathaway started in ninth grade. Her Myers Park High School team in Charlotte reached the semi-finals of state competition last year with Hathaway as setter/hitter. She also participated in USVBA tournaments and a Charlotte league.

Both players are quick to point out how well the team gets along and plays together. With teammates slapping one another’s hands on the court, this team unity is no secret to the fans. Both players also agree that their coach, Rebecca Hawkins, passes along her positive attitude to each player on the team. The team has come together as a supportive, close-knit group. Each player knows where each other is during a game. They have given much of their time and energy to the game, but neither doubts the decision to play in college.