Thursday, February 18, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian’s question of the week:
“What do you have to do between now and finals?”

By TOM MOORE
Photos by KEITH FINCH

“I have a paper that was due two weeks ago, and a paper that was due yesterday, and I’m getting
the lowest grade I’ve ever gotten in any class. And I have a paper due for my Parables class, and
a skit for French. Oh, and I have a lot of work to do, too. I have to work Thursday,
Friday, and Saturday.”
Norma Rodriguez, junior religion major

College Special

3 Free Cokes with 16" pizza
(2 items or more)
2 Free Cokes with 12" pizza
(2 items or more)
1 Free Coke with any other order

“I've got a set of reviews to grade and give back and two final exams to make out; and they’re
both slide exams, so that’s going to take me a lot of time because I have yet to make and
develop the slides.”
Dirk French, Professor of Classical Studies

“I’ve got a paper that was due at nine o’clock this morning, ten pages; I’ve got a five-page paper due
Friday at noon; I’ve got a test on Friday; I’ve got another five-page paper, which is optional, due Friday; I’ve
got to rewrite three English papers, and I’ve got two finals to take. That’s pretty much it.”
John P. Hutchinson, junior history major

“I have to write a paper, well, I’ve got two papers, actually, one six pages long, and one three pages
long. They’re pretty much blow-offs. I’ve got a Spanish skit, which is going to be a lot of fun, and
then a Spanish final which is no big deal. Oh, yeah, I’ve got to read ‘Bob the Carrot,’ too. Really,
I’m sort of cruising until Spring break.”
Robert A. Brown, senior political science major

“Well, I have a paper in sociology, I have a test in sociology, and I have a great deal of
American philosophy reading, which I haven’t done yet. Actually, an entire book on philosophy that I really have got to
finish. And... wow! I’m way behind!”
Doug Gibson, freshman

Carry Out Special

2 medium pizzas with 4 toppings: $9.36
2 large pizzas with 4 toppings: $13.07
* Not valid with any other offers
* Carry out only
* Offer valid for a limited time only
