- Tuesday, December 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Panel discusses worldwide human rights situation

UN Human Rights Day brings senior deputy assistant secretary of state to Davidson

By MARIA DOUGLAS

Amnesty International and the Dean Rusk Program sponsored a panel discussion last Wednesday night about human rights in honor of United Nations Human Rights Day. Panel members were senior deputy assistant secretary for the State Department’s Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs Bill Farrand, UNCC professor of religion Kathryn Johnson, visiting professor of international relations Gabriela Tarazona-Sevillano, and UNCC professor of psychology Ignatius Toner.

Farrand began the 900 Room discussion by explaining human rights as defined in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights signed 48 years ago on December 10 by member nations of the U.N. The declaration holds signees responsible for human rights in their respective countries. It states that no person is to be tortured; that people have the right to their own property; that no one should fear for his own safety or the safety of his property; and that each has a right to his own beliefs.

Farrand said the Human Rights Bureau of the State Department publishes an annual report on human rights violations in 170 countries. Often, they are accused of meddling in the internal affairs of both friend and foe. “It’s a briar in the saddle of diplomacy,” Farrand said. The Bureau reminds violators that they have agreed to the declaration and encourages them to live up to their agreement. “The U.S. government does not set itself up as judge and jury,” Farrand said, but it is in favor of democracy and due process of the law.

Johnson gave a portrait of human rights in Iran. “The Islamic republic of Iran is an interesting case,” she said. Members of the Muslim religious school are allowing their own community members’ rights to be violated. Johnson said that Iran is returning to Islamic traditional penalties to handle opponents. Flogging and amputation have been reinstated as acceptable punishments. For example, forgery can earn an offender 74 lashes, drinking 80 lashes, and unmarried couples kissing can expect 99 lashes. Amnesty International questions how humane these punishments are, as flogging can cause severe injury and even death. In 1986, stoning was the punishment for eight reported cases of adultery.

Johnson said that the prisons were also havens for violations, especially against opponents of the regime in power in Iran. People can be picked up and held without charges; they can be tortured and may wait until it pleases the court to try the offender. They often have no counsel and no opportunity to prepare a defense. Johnson said that trials are heard by young, inexperienced judges, and sentences can’t be appealed and are often carried out immediately.

Johnson said the problems predate the 1979 revolution in which the Shah and his family, the Pahlavi regime, were ousted but worsened after the change in government. Many thousands have been subjected to inhumane treatment because they are considered a threat. Khomeni “sees Iran as a sick society, and the only way to make it well is to return to Islam,” said Johnson. Those who oppose the regime oppose God’s plan for Iran, and those people are dangerous and must be defeated, according to Khomeni’s plan. “As far as human rights go, it looks pretty...```
"Islamic law is not likely to go out. There is little chance for change." The situation in Peru is just as bad as in Iran, according to Tarazona-Sevillano. In 1984, 50 tortured and mutilated bodies were found buried in the mountains of the Ayacucho province in Peru. Terrorists or military police are thought to be responsible. The Sendero Luminoso, the Shining Path guerillas, is the terrorist group in control of the area. "The Shining Path guerillas are an elusive, secret, brutal organization, unlike anything in the Western hemisphere," Tarazona-Sevillano said. "They have no regard for human life and use terrorism as a regular tactic."

Eight years ago, Peru came under a democratic political system after 12 years of a military dictator. There were 482 terrorist incidents in that first year of democracy. Ayacucho was the stronghold of the Shining Path guerillas, and military police were sent in to "protect" the area. As a result, innocent people were killed if they were thought to be supporters of the guerillas, and others were killed if they tried to follow the government. Crimes of the military like rape, torture, and aggravated homicide were said to be acts of duty, and the soldiers were let off with light sentences, if tried. "These cannot be considered acts of duty," Tarazona-Sevillano said, "These are crimes."

In 1987, an Anti-Terrorist Act was passed to try anyone accused of terrorist acts and human rights violations. After eight years of fighting, 12,000 lives have been lost at the hands of the military and the Shining Path guerillas.

In Northern Ireland, the Catholic minority constantly struggles for rights from the Protestant majority. Their struggle is "analogous to what blacks went through in the 60s," according to Toner. A difference is that blacks didn’t use terrorist tactics like the IRA (Irish Republic Army) does. Other groups in Ireland also engage in fighting for their cause. A part of the British Army and pro-Protestant groups, like the RUC (Royal Ulster Constabulary), counter the IRA. All of these groups, Toner said, violate human rights. One figure shows that the IRA is responsible for 100 killings a year, by bombings and other attacks. "I don’t think things will change in the next year or two," Toner said.

Farrand suggested the way to change situations for people in these countries is to become concerned and involved. "Come to evenings like this and follow whatever issue is closest to you." He also said that the way to get results is to write a letter to your congressman. "Write," Farrand said. "Don’t be quiet; it matters."

UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI
A GLOBAL EDUCATION FOR THE REAL WORLD

Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with a policy emphasis. Special fields: International relations, Interamerican relations, international business, comparative development, economics, strategic studies. Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, and the Middle East. Fellowships and other financial aid available. Apply by January 15.

GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI
CORAL GABLES, FL 33124
(305) 284-4173
```