Monday, December 5, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

YEAH, AND WE GOT THREE NEWS FREE AGENTS ON AND A PLEDGE TO BE NAMED AT A LATER DATE IN EXCHANGE FOR A THIRD-ROUND DRAFT PICK.

Letters

Football

Dear Editor:

I am writing in response to the articles that have appeared recently about the football program. As head student manager, I spend almost as much time at practice as the players. I know the dedication it takes to be a member of a varsity team. Numerous editorials and game reports have me troubled and angered. The attitudes expressed show that there are many misconceptions about the football team. I would like to dispel them.

First, it would seem that the football team is not competitive. Granted the team went 0-10 this year, but you must look beyond the final score to the statistics. Statistically speaking, we were equal to, if not better than, every team we played. In addition, our defense was ranked first in the Colonial League for several weeks in a row. We are still a relatively young team, but with four full recruited classes playing next year, we will have the greater speed, strength, size, and depth that we need to be truly competitive.

Second, it would seem that we can never be competitive in the Colonial League. What most people do not realize is that other Colonial League teams still have scholarship players. Since scholarships cannot be revoked, we must wait until they graduate. Only then will equality be achieved. Colonial League football will be more balanced, and then Davidson will excel.

Finally, it would seem that the wisest choice would be for the trustees to drop the football program either to Division III or entirely. This, however, would be the gravest of errors. Without I-AA football, Davidson would lose a big part of its tradition. Football games draw loyal fans and alumni each Saturday. Furthermore, many players (and I believe I can speak for the large majority of them) would lose the main reason they came to this school. They wanted to play in the academically superior and athletically competitive environment that Davidson offers. To rob them of this opportunity is unfair.

Thanks to everyone who believes in the team, because what we need, especially now, is enlightened support from students and faculty, not uninformed criticism.

Sincerely,
Lenna Brubaker

I read with more than a passing interest your attack on Davidson Football, its players, and its coaching staff. I find it an example of the very worst in collegiate journalism. You have held up to scorn and ridicule a group of young men whose only fault is that they play football. It does not matter that they all attend classes and work to the same degree as all Davidson students. It matters little that they spend hours attempting to make Davidson football competitive. It only matters that The Davidsonian can flex a muscle called Pseudo-Intellectualism. I look back to the time I was editor of the Boston College Heights. I was given advice by George Fraser, an eminent writer for The Boston Globe, “While it is difficult to write positive, it is better than destroying for the sake of destruction.” Try building, you will find a sense of accomplishment!

Sincerely,
Thomas A. Hughes
Proud Father of Peter

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

No middle ground

The trustee committees have made their recommendation; Davidson’s football program should drop to Division III. They had three options, and they chose the cowardly one. After splitting the vote down the middle between keeping football in Division I or dropping it, committee members arrived at this politically “safe” compromise. It solves few problems, makes others worse and could well end up killing off the program anyway.While there is no evidence that committee members had dark designs in their hearts to let football die in Division III, they should have considered this likely outcome. The Division III option is not really the middle ground that it might seem. For starters, it is apparent that many current players are serious about leaving Davidson. Also, the vastly different recruiting regulations in Division III have thrown the search for freshmen into chaos. This combination means there is a good chance that Davidson will not have enough players to field a team next year. Athletic Director Christopher B. “Kit” Morris’ plan to give Wildcat Club funds only to those who do not play next year has the potential to further strip next year’s team of players. Division III regulations state that those who do play cannot receive any supplements to their financial aid. For those who do choose to play again, this means a loss of up to $3,500 in benefits that they could get by sitting down in the bleachers instead of running around on the field. All in all, there is very little incentive for Davidson athletes to compete in the Little Leagues of college football. Add in the possible departure of Coach Gatto, and we’ve got two scenarios: My dad will fulfill his dream of seeing his son start at quarterback (not likely), or the program will fold.

One observation made by players immediately after the announcement rings true: they will be made the scapegoats should the program perish in Division III. After all, the trustees only changed divisions; those naughty players and coaches who left killed football. This perception should not be tolerated. If no players show up next year, it will be a direct result of the trustees’ action, and no one should be surprised. Davidson’s football problem will not go away by enacting pointless melting pots of policy, nor will it evaporate by ignoring the predicament the program is in, as trustees have done for years. When the full board meets in mid-December to vote on the recommendation, they are free to ignore it. It is not too late to correct the committee’s mistake. Moving football to Division III will cause more pain than ending the program outright. The trustees should reject the Division III option.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. In fact, you'd have to be a real idiot to think they did. Subscriptions cost $25 per year, slightly more for idiots. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College, who are not idiots, or at least not reliably so.

P.S. Will, thanks for the concern! I didn’t know you read any of my stuff.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll, the birthday girl.
Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome, the boy wonder.
News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany “Mantrap” Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Zimmie.
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.
Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.
Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, John “Hostess” Engel, J.W. Mullis, Michael D. Schill.
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland “12-Gauge” Smith, Mark Steen.
Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.