Tuesday, December 13, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

The return of Ed
Beyond Davidson: National Affairs
By ED POWELL

Business
Last week, Kohlberg Kravis finally pulled off their 25.07 billion dollar buyout of R.J.R Nabisco and there appear to be
few losers in this historic deal. So far, the biggest winners are the investment banking firms that financed the deal
as they are guaranteed at least 10 million dollars even if the agreement falls through. Of all the firms, Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. stands to gain the most, an estimated 227 million dollars if all goes well. Locally, workers in
Winston-Salem could stand to lose their jobs if Kohlberg Kravis decides to sell off the R.J.R. subsidiaries.

Atlantic Telephone and Telegraph (AT&T) and U.S. Sprint were awarded 60 and 40% respectively of the federal government’s telecommunications contract
on Wednesday. The ten-year deal valued between 3 and 10 billion dollars should provide a big financial boost for struggling
Sprint. Sprint, which had been running a distant third in the recent long-distance wars, edged out M.C.I. and Martin Marietta
to land their share of the contract. The new system will be the largest of its type in the world
and will link over one million government workers across 1,311 locations. It will handle approximately 1.6 million calls a day
and roughly 220 million a year. The new system is designed to save an estimated 100 million dollars a year
in phone bills.

Defense
Pentagon officials have announced a delay in the deployment of the newly designed stealth bomber. In an effort to ease
the Defense department’s budget crunch, full deployment will not occur until the 1990s. The Air Force had originally hoped that
the production of the Northrop Corporation’s state-of-the-art B-2 bomber would make it operational within the next few years. The stealth
is believed to be able to fly great distances, unnoticeable to radar.

Government
The Bush transition team continues to move quickly in appointing a new Cabinet by the first of the year. Already
several Reagan appointees have been asked to stay on, most noticeably Attorney General Richard Thornburg and Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos.
President-elect Bush has been very loyal to his supporters, naming campaign director Lee Atwater to head the R.N.C. and long-time
Bush supporter, James Baker, as Secretary of State. New Hampshire Governor John Sununu will be the new White House Chief
of Staff and Nicholas Brady will be the Secretary of Treasury. The Bush transition team is expected to name the
Secretary of Defense later this week and all indications are that former Texas Senator John Tower will man that post.

P.T.L.
In the never-ending saga that has surrounded P.T.L. the past two years, defrocked minister Jim Bakker was indicted on Tuesday
by a federal grand jury. Bakker and former P.T.L. executive vice president Richard Dortch were charged with 24 counts of
mail fraud, wire fraud, and conspiracy in the indictment returned by the Charlotte grand jury.

Committee battles misperceptions of “date rape”
“It’s amazing,” says Human Resources head. “Many women don't even know they've been raped.”
By HEATH HARDAGE

Rape is not a subject which is often discussed at Davidson. Rumors circulate from time to time about assaults on
campus, but as one junior said, “I haven’t been informed [of any rapes] that occurred.” Assistant Dean of Students Harriette
Fulton confirmed this, saying that to her knowledge, in her four years at Davidson, no “stranger rapes” had been committed.
What has become a growing concern at Davidson, however, is the incidence of date or acquaintance rape. “I’d say 25%
of Davidson women have been date-raped,” said senior Karla deBeck, who is head of the Human Resources Committee. “It’s amazing:
many women don’t even know they’ve been raped.” She defined date rape: “Even if you were too tired and too
drunk and said no, but he did it [sexual intercourse] anyway, it’s still date rape.” She added that Salem and
Queens College imports are more vulnerable to date rape. “I had a friend from Salem who was date-raped,” she disclosed.
“Incidents [of date rape] are found out more often when they concern other schools. Their dean will call Davidson.”

Alcohol is a prevalent factor in approximately 70-80% of the date rape incidents, said deBeck. “Her resistance is down, and
his adrenaline is going.” She also said that a lot of guys will “get you drunk.” All too often the
victims of such rapes are afraid to tell anyone about their experience. The primary reason for their silence is that
“they feel like a big tease and deserve it.” Society still condemns women or the victim may also be “under
the influence of something” she may feel like she was not in control to begin with.

Davidson men, in deBeck’s view, “are basically clueless” about the issue. “I don’t think they’re going to be active [in
prevention] at all. They just don’t think about it.” She stated that many other students on campus don’t get involved
in the issue because “a lot of people at Davidson concentrate on”Their work and think, ‘Oh, I’ll leave that to
the police.’ Fulton described her involvement with the Human Resources Committee. She said that the Committee’s main goal is to
“educate students about acquaintance rape.” She also said, “My impression is that [the group] was formed as a result of
acquaintance rape.” The Committee aimed to provide a 24-hour rape hotline and counseling service. However, these services were hardly ever
used. As a result, the hotline was discontinued, and the counseling aspect has been taken over by the Counseling Center
here on campus. Fulton said that the reason for the lack of use of Human Resource facilities was due to
the fact that “there is not much anonymity in a small campus like this.” Students were apparently seeking help off
campus for reasons of confidentiality.

“It’s hard for someone who experiences this to come forward,” Fulton explained. However, the Committee still retains a room in
the Union which contains resource materials on the subject. The group gives out rape pamphlets to freshmen each fall, and
this year, it has sponsored both a forum on dating at Davidson and a speaker on sexual harassment. Future plans
for the Human Resources Committee include an AIDS forum in January, a video concerning rape to be shown on the
freshmen halls with a discussion following, a program on self-defense, and a speaker on date rape in the spring.

If a woman has been date-raped, Fulton said that she should seek help at the dean’s office, the infirmary, or
the Counseling Center. “I’ve referred a few people there [to the Counseling Center],” she said. She also said that “it’s
not unheard of for this [a date rape case] to go to the Honor Council.” Unlike deBeck, Fulton believes that
there is a “growing concern among the men, especially hall counselors, concerning date rape.” She did admit that the school
has done only “sporadic programs [on rape]. We need to do [programs] more on a consistent basis.”

Students still see the question of date rape as hazy. Most admit that alcohol is usually involved. As freshman LeAnn
Simmons put it, “I think that if you were drunk and someone took advantage of you, you wouldn’t have much
of a case.” Another freshman, Lucy Broadus, agreed and said, “It’s a fine line between date rape and mutual agreement
if you’re both drunk anyway.” One freshman had this final word to say on the subject of date rape: “It’s
made to seem less important than regular rape. It’s not considered to be sex out of control because you’re dating.”

Phonathon earns over $200,000. Breaks all records, holds win as usual.

By JAY CHAUDHURI

The SGA Phonathon concluded as a success, say organizers. “This year we far exceeded our goal of $155,000,” SGA Vice-President
Charlie Winn said of the fundraiser, which raised $203,448. The co-chairmen of the phonathon, sophomore Ingrid Love and juniors John
Black and A. J. Morgan, were also very pleased with the totals. “A lot of hard work was put into
this year’s phonathon by everybody,” commented Love. “Congratulations to the freshmen who kept up some great spirit and to the
rest of the volunteers who dared to take a break in their studies to make this a very successful year.”

The 1988 phonathon involved over twenty hours of phone calls and approximately 375 students. Director of the Annual Fund Robbie
Howell said that another reason the phonathon raised so much money was the extraordinary effort put in by Black, Love,
Morgan, and Winn. “The reason for the phonathon’s success was because of these four people,” said Howell. “They worked very
diligently for all seven nights.”

Freshman phonathon volunteer Moreland Smith reflected on his first fundraiser experience and said, “I enjoyed it. They should continue the
freshmen involvement in the phonathon in order to incorporate [freshmen] into activities of the school. It also helps us realize
where part of our money comes from.”

Amounts raised by campus groups are as follows: Kappa Alpha (November 13) raised $23,229.50; Phi Delt, Spencer, and Sig Ep
(November 15) raised $19,054; Rusk, Fiji, and PAX (November 16) raised $28,002.80; Freshmen, Independents, and BSC (November 17) raised $27,369;
Kappa Sig (November 28) raised $37,865; PiKA and Warner Hall (November 29) raised $20,550; and SAE (December 1) raised $47,377.

The concept of the phonathon was developed by David Waddill ’81. He submitted a proposal for a phonathon to former
Director for the Living Endowment Lee Willingham. Willingham, sensing a need to raise funds for a new fieldhouse/gymnasium, agreed to
incorporate the fundraiser.

The money raised in the phonathon is for the Living Endowment, which provides ten percent of the budget. These funds
support academic affairs such as scholarships, faculty salaries, library acquisitions, and educational programs. The Living Endowment, along with the Wildcat
Club, WDAV, and the Senior Class Gift, hopes to meet this year’s annual fund goal of $1.5 million.
