PRAISE ge

Nifty comics inside! pages 4-6

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 2

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, September 9, 1988

Senior Michael Schill expresses his displeasure with the new ESSX telephone system. Students have experienced problems with the call-waiting feature, among others. Never fear: intrepid Davidsonian reporters are hot on the story.

Photo by Alex Hayden

Still In Search Of Davidson’s chaplain

By MARGARET CARROLL

The Chaplain Search Committee is still looking for Davidson’s next chaplain. The committee interviewed four candidates last year and one during the summer and, according to Dean of Students Will Terry, “We have just not found our person yet.”

The search committee members include Mrs. Jane Avinger of the Town of Davidson, Professor of Mathematics Benjamin Klein, Professor of Religion Max Polley, sophomore Margaret Carroll, senior Justin Broughton, junior Doug Hicks, junior Sheldon Garmon, and senior Sarah Merritt. Merritt is a Catholic and Garmon is a Baptist; Avinger, Klein, Polley, Broughton, Carroll, and Hicks are Presbyterians.

Inside

According to Terry, “we [the committee] are conscious of finding the right person for the chaplaincy in all its parameters.”

The candidates who have been interviewed have entertained busy schedules while at Davidson. They have met with College President John Kuykendall, Dean of Faculty and Vice President for Academic Affairs Robert Williams, DCPC Minister Charles Raynal, Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia, the Chapel Committee, the Chaplain Search Committee and students at Pika and Rusk houses.

When the next candidates visit they will have a similar schedule,

See CHAPLAIN, page 2

Housing Crunch

Completion guarantee made on new dorms

Males to live in Cornelius Holiday Inn in meantime

By GARY WHEELER and TRIPP HELMS

Barger Construction of Mooresville, N.C. has guaranteed that the C building of the apartment-style dorms will be completed by September 29.

According to Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze, buildings A and B are expected to be finished by the end of October or the first of November.

Tom Jennings met with students who hope to move into apartment building C last Tuesday. Workers are now finishing interior work on building C, including mechanical work, sheetrock, carpet, and painting.

Temporary provisions have been made to house the students who were to be living in building C.

The College owns two houses in Davidson, one at 300 Lorimer and the other at 503 Walnut, and it has been given temporary permission by the Town of Davidson to allow students to live in these houses for the month of September.

The house on Lorimer will house twelve women and the Walnut home will hold six men. Students were allowed to move into these houses on September 2, and the College provided vehicles and staff to aid in moving.

The remainder of the men have the option of staying in the Holiday Inn in Cornelius or keeping the temporary housing they now have. (The Holiday Inn is not an option for the women.) Whether students will be able to continue living with faculty and staff depends on the hosts’ wishes.

Those people electing the Holiday Inn were permitted to move in September 4. Both the college and the hotel are to provide shuttle service for the displaced students.

Meetze believes that the present dorm construction is actually ahead of schedule. “A project this size would usually take 10 months to one year to complete.”

The actual construction was started in April. A delay was caused by the change in design from four two-story dorms to three three-story dorms.

New faculty! (Back, l-r) Julie Gibert, history; Magdalena Maiz Pena, Spanish; Anne Sweetser, anthropology; Alex Pinkston, theatre and speech; Tona Dyer, psychology; Zoran Kuzmanovich, English; Rosemarie Tong, humanities. (Front, l-r) Will Bodiford, religion; Russell Snapp, history; Billy Hassell, art; Yvonne Kendall, music; Dale Long, physics. Not pictured: Julia Eichelberger, English; Bonnie Marshall, Russian; Sally McMillen, history; Peter Meinke, education; MaryNell Saunders, music; Guo Meifeng, Chinese culture & education; Rob Whitton, mathematics; Jian Wenguang, Chinese culture & education. Come meet them at the reception this Friday, 4:30 pm on the front lawn of the Kuykendall’s. Photo by Bill Giduz.