Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The day the snow came to the house.

It came within a sorcery of wishes,

And I saw the woman dance from the apothecary’s gate
Anticipating the delicious scent within the chamber.

She came in through the door the day the snow fell
And I remember how the man walked out of it:
Within the house, the blankets slept while I

The day the snow came to the house

Studied through the window how he left

And came and whispered of a sleeping time

To the woman, I listened in the hush

Of sweeping and cloaking to his footfalls

Since he would not sleep for cold the day

The snow seduced the chambers, or

He would not turn to see the peace of
Resting, coats and blankets beckoned

On the day I saw the clouds dust snow
And smelled the cold rain smell within
The barricaded chamber and the coat

--Stan Armistead '80

From down home

In the deep, deep South there
exists a small town called Ozark,
Alabama. In Ozark people with
names like the Muns, Jewell Wells,
Ruth Poe, Carthell Ard, and the
Reverend Asa Boozer live or have
lived, along with Meama, my
grandmother.

Meama is a member of the “Widows’ Club” which meets monthly
in order to celebrate the members’ birthdays for the month. Each
month the party is held at a different member’s house who acts as
hostess, fixing a main dish and asking others to bring items. Each
person also brings birthday cards for each person who has a birthday
that month.

The last time that Meama had the “Widows’ Club” at her house, she
told me of the trouble that she had in telling one friend, Flouride, when
the party was going to be held. Meama began the story, “Well, you
know that Flouride has had some trouble lately rememberin’ things.
Anyway, I called her on Monday before the party on Friday and told her,
‘The party is at my house, Friday night at five o’clock. Bring two cards.’
Well, she said that she would be here, and I didn’t hear from her for a
couple of days. Then she called on Wednesday and asked me, ‘Is it
tonight? Is it tonight?’ I said, ‘Flouride honey, is what tonight?’ ‘The
party for the Widows’ Club,’ she replied.

I said, ‘No Flouride, it’s Friday night at my house at five o’clock. Bring
two cards.’ We chatted, and then said goodbye. Well Margaret, she
called the next day (Thursday) and said, ‘Mary, this is Flouride. Is it
tonight? Is the party tonight?’ I said, ‘No Flouride. Get a pencil and
paper and write it down! It’s Friday night at five o’clock at my house,
and you need to bring two cards! Goodbye.’

Well, as it turns out she didn’t even come. She called me back on the
day of the party to tell me that she was havin’ company that night and
had forgotten that too. I just said, ‘Fine, Flouride. We’ll miss you
though.’ I hope I didn’t hurt her feelin’s by being snappy with her, but
she’s really pitiful about rememberin’ things. That’s what old age can
do to ya.”

The town of Ozark has many strange stories, people, and places like
“Thrill Hill,” “Mosquito Ridge,” and the “Old House.” And, if you ask
Meama, she can tell you about almost anybody, all of their relatives,
and everything that they have ever done.

--Margaret Carroll ’91

Crevass Wreckage

Crevass wreckage from Eden cast
From fecal perch of self-crafted stool,
With bedworth bride. Youth squats
Pausing sorely in fleshy fetters,
Contemplating his boom...
Dripping beard releases the matter
And fortune finds. “In feces found, from feces rise,
Towards Eden's seat. In mystery's bright glare.
From littered limbs and parental heat,
Sources forth Newborn The Wise bask mighty
by mystery led, in mystery die.”

In canyon seam and sun's hot stare,
Stilled, sauntering, he felt air across his inner thigh.
I wait with bated breath for your return--
Deadly, black and dying, they left.

--B. J.T. R. Tanguy ’89

There exists only one place where we can dance
from orange columbine cups, suckled
to taste the gin and tonic of thy tongue.
And so they came on wet scarlet skies--
it was like feeling the desperate heartbeat of a newborn bird in your palm.

--Stan Armistead '89