and dark, as life in our rain forest. The search with red sun, as hinted by the ermine moths. The bulldozers are wearing blinders or closely. Even blinder are the eyes, half-peering, living plus blindfolded! Eyed, others cockeyed, others—this year’s Bambi Award? It's over. Isn’t there a leash for bulldozers? Ice is a grove of space-holding trees. Tiny escapees sail away beneath. Ice was a grove of space-holding trees.

Guano Poet Caudate

Hey Johnny, why don’t you come out for me? Let's go see what the rocks look like in the shadows. I’ll show you the shiny black stones. Come on Johnny, you know the paths, the rusted squeal the screen door made as it closed, its panels checkered patterns interwoven. See the shaping of a lie through the wing door gate, the rough ground padded bare feet. Smooth worn earth broken ahead by the wheat field shifting with the wind (the coils of the snake the man told us). The burned pews of the older church we crawled into through shards of brittle glass lining the blank windows. I wanted to climb up to see the half twilight moon reflected in the shiny surface of the church bell, but you took my hand in yours and led me away from the tarnished bell pull, away through the near darkness from the ladder. I was sure you would bear me up but not the weight of your memories.

Dead of Winter

And snow fell white, the same on a winter’s night, trying to set that poem to music for over an hour to make the piano sound like falling snow, but he kept returning to an older song, a song from a year ago. A window over his right shoulder when he turned, he saw snow falling sideways, the wind in the snow, the forms twisting, moving, dancing, in the first of the new year, and he alone, looking at the keys—blacks and whites, the scales and arbitrary patterns, chords which justified themselves, filling up emptiness and time. Filling up emptiness and time, composed in the empty college choir room, but he had memory and not note memory. He played best with his heart, and his fingers kept returning to the older song, and he let it come, a song less like sorrow and falling, more like the wind in the snow.

He leaned into the piece and felt arms encircling him from behind, kept right on playing as he felt her warmth pressed tightly against his back. He didn’t even have to ask who it was. He smelled her hair as she pressed her cheek against his cold ear.

“Wesley,” she said, leaning back in her arms, still playing.

“Dorma,” he said, caressing that word with her mouth as she spoke. “How did you know I was here?”

“I heard you playing, and I knew it was that boy.” Happy, that word in her mouth. “Do you recognize it?” playing softer now, “I wrote it during snowfall. I mean, do you think it’s pretty?”

“Yes,” she said, “It sounds much better. Oh, and you play on the black keys, too.”

“Yes. And I did it just for you, Dorma,” he said. “Do you remember the first time I played for you? You cried that night.”

“Yeah, I did,” she said, “but not for you, Wesley-boy.”

“Are you sure?” he said. She hugged him tighter as he sounded the last chords of the piece. The silver field shone through the window. It had stopped snowing.

“Want to walk in the snow?” he said.

Away from the Fine Arts building, out under the snow-hung trees, they stopped, in the pale light of sparse lamps. She put her arm in his.

“I remember our first walk,” he said. Late summer a year ago, she had grabbed his hand like a bolt of sunlight and led him skittering through the few early autumn leaves.

“You're just like sunshine, Dorma,” he had said to her in the dappling shadows of branches, “just like one of these trees, reaching for the sunshine.”

“Yeah,” she said, “I’m just like a tree, just like one of those syrup trees,” with laughing eyes, “You have to stick this thing in ‘em to get the sweet stuff to come out!” she said, squeezing his hand.

“You have to stick this thing in ‘em to get the sweet stuff to come out!” He had repeated her, laughing out loud. And he felt he had just the thing, too.He could safely say he’s never met a girl like this. “Look at all these trees,” he said, tilting his head toward hers and pointing with his arm, “all in lace and white.”

“Yeah, like wedding dresses,” she said.

“They're courting the spring, I guess,” he said, thinking of the long winter ahead, and last year’s long winter past. The winter after they had parted.

Promise me two things, his mother had said. Please if you are a homosexual, don’t ever come out of the closet, I don’t want to know, and the other thing is please don’t marry a Yankee wife, but she had said, with great emphasis, I’d rather you be a homosexual than to marry a Yankee wife. Was that what he would have done?

Their last night together, how she had come to him in his upper room, how they had labored together, mostly clothed, forms in a passion of friction, sweating, stinging in the late September upper room heat. Her salty lips. But, bare-breasted Liberty was not their vanguard, looking down his mind into that Delacroix painting, its burnt oranges and reds and blacks, like the summer sky under which they’d come to that room, and Dorma’s breast which he had in the end not allowed himself to touch, and which he imagined, looking out again, as white and fine as the snow which lay all around.

And when they had finished miming love, and she had curled onto him, her arm on his chest, her leg across his thigh, he had waited until she was asleep, and got up and laid on the floor and listened to the scathing wind as it bore down on his corner room, unable to sleep, listening to the wind dashing dead limbs against the impassive earth.

Waking to a school morning of oversleeping and leaves falling and her flying barefoot over winter streets and lawns too cold for long good-byes. He pulled her now as close as their winter clothes would allow, his nose in her hair.

“You fit right up under my arm,” he said. He smelled her hair, and it was like that day after they’d parted when he had caught that overpowering smell of those bushes on the little path by the church playground, that overpowering smell of blossoms in still air already tinged with the smell of winter. That smell had hurt him, made his lungs ache, but he had stood by those trees in the failing daylight and breathed in again and again.

The snow had begun to fall again. “It’s amazing, isn’t it,” he said. “All these snowflakes and not a single one alike. A snowflake for everybody on earth.”

“A snowflake,” she said, poking her bottom lip out a little sadly, “for everyone that ever died.”

“You're morbid, Dorma,” he said.

“It’s deeper than last year. It seems to snow more every year.”

“That’s just because you’re from Georgia.”

“One snowflake for each person that ever died,” he cheered her. “Maybe it didn’t snow when the world was young, but snows more each year now, as the sum of the dead is increased.”

“That’s very good for a college student. You must be an English major,” she said. “And on the first snow of the year, the snow falls for the newly dead.”

They had reached the churchyard, and the squinching of feet had ceased. The snow was falling gently and straight now, empty of those dancing forms. In the silence of the falling snow, the steeple shone white as did the tops of the scattered gravestones, some old, some new. Wesley let his arm fall to his side.

“Equilibrists lie here, tread light,” he said, too softly for her to hear.

The snow was falling faster now, in large feather flakes. The falling snow and Dorma in the falling snow. He looked up and in the light of the single yard lamp saw one big intricate flake, like the Lily of the Valley Christmas tree ornament, hand-carved in olivewood, that he had bought in Bethlehem of Israel, falling just in front of his head. He jumped forward and caught this large flake on his tongue and felt it become a couple of drops on the back of his dry hot throat. They tasted briefly whiter than and fuller than water could wash. Wesley turned to tell Dorma all of this, but she was gone.