Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Features

Fall crop of Rusk Scholars arrives

By PREM MANJOORAN

From across the Atlantic they might be, but they certainly are no strangers to Davidson. Every year the college sees
an influx of a bit of British stiff upper lip in the form of the “Ruskies”--the Dean Rusk Exchange Scholars
to give them their formal designation. They’re only here until Christmas, but Lucy Congreve, Siobhan (pronounced Shevon) Boa, Tabby Gentleman,
Anthony Jackson, Dan Parsons, and Piers Thomas are already well on their way to establishing a rapport with their surroundings
that would rival most freshman four-year students.

All six students are from St. Paul’s, London. But while the girls’ school is in East Kensington, the boys study
in Barnes. The contact between the schools is quite minimal. Apart from the same name, the occasional drama or music
performance, and Davidson College, they share very little else in common. In fact, believe it or not, none of this
year’s Rusk scholars have ever studied in a “co-ed” class before. Here’s where class at Davidson can offer an indelible
American experience!

St. Paul’s is an “academic” school according to Davidson to develop a first-hand, working knowledge of the American psyche while
“studying courses they’ve never taken before and will probably never have the opportunity to take again.” Lucy, Siobhan, Tabby, Anthony,
Dan, and Piers have all just passed out of the English equivalent of high school and have, in effect, taken
the year off. Coincidentally, after their Davidson stint is completed, all of them except Piers will travel to China. How’s
that for variety? Charlotte to Shanghai to...Cambridge/Oxford. Any takers?

Lucy was convinced that in London she could probably spot an American from a little over a mile away: the
chewing gum, the Nike sneakers, the Sony video camera, and the overemphasized drawl. Much to their delight, the group did
not encounter these stereotypes here at Davidson. In fact, they say they’ve been quite overwhelmed by the warmth and helpfulness
they have encountered, be it somebody explaining the intricacies of the football field, or someone demonstrating the steps of a
square dance. Anthony is quite unequivocal when he asserts, “People are just too friendly to be true.”

Yet their stay in America has not been trouble-free. These students--no wonder they have an exchange program with Davidson! The
six of them represent the icing on the St. Paul’s cake, and they’ve come to develop a first-hand, working knowledge
of the American psyche while “studying courses they’ve never taken before and will probably never have the opportunity to take
again.”

---

A freshman’s perspective of Davidson

By HEATH HARDAGE

At 8:00 a.m., as I stare into my interchangeable breakfast/lunch/dinner of Grape Nuts and Sweet ‘N Low, many thoughts begin
to creep sluggishly through my mind. Why am I here at college? What personal goals do I have for myself?
What direction will my life at Davidson point me in? And most importantly, how in the heck am I going
to get those peach daiquiri stains off my rug?

For any freshman entering college, the first two weeks of school are a period of adjustment. This time presents both
new delights and new problems. The realization that you have taken on a great freedom coupled with a great responsibility
takes some getting used to. As a result, most freshmen find that their biggest quandary arises when they are faced
with the omnipresent distractions of hall gossip sessions, stereos, campus special events, and weekday parties.

People (presumably) come to Davidson to increase the level of their education. All freshmen have repeatedly heard parental admonitions to
“remember the reason we sent you to college!” Therefore, the good intentions of...

---

Note: The text ends abruptly, indicating there might be more content on the next page.A naive freshman includes getting to
bed at a reasonable time, eating from all four food groups, and making studying the main priority. Unfortunately, these Gatsby-esque
resolves are all thrown out the window within a week. Procrastination doesn’t take long to set in. Soon the quotation
“Mediocrities everywhere, I absolve you” becomes the freshman student’s motto. (This apt comment was inscribed on a Davidson study carrel.)
Although we all know that most Davidson students would never think of going out past 10 p.m., there is that
small percentage of people who find themselves going out every night until 3 a.m. (Playing tiddly-winks, of course.) Red-eyed hallmates
shuffling listlessly to classes become quite a common sight. Even you, O Virtuous Reader, may be finding yourself in this
state several times a week. By the third week, formerly taboo words like “routine,” “discipline,” and “structure” are starting to
sound pretty good. An 11:00 p.m. weekday bedtime is a heavenly thought, and cruciferous vegetables are starting to look appetizing.
The student is slowly coming to the realization that maybe Mom and Dad’s constant warnings to take care of yourself
might have some value. Achieving the right balance between the social and the academic aspects of college life may well
be a more challenging task than writing that 30-page typed paper on astrophysics!

The British are here! The 1988 Rusk Scholars, clockwise from the left, are: Piers Thomas, Anthony Jackson, Siobhan Boa, Dan
Parsons, Lucy Congreve, and Tabby Gentleman. Photo by Holt Hathaway.

Looking for something good to read during your long hours of spare time? Here’s what’s selling at college bookstores around
the country this month courtesy of The Chronicle of Higher Education, as well as Dorothy Reidelbach’s recommendations for what’s new:

Campus Paperback Bestsellers:
1. Presumed Innocent, by Scott Turow. (Warner, $5.95) A blood-chilling, accurate depiction of the criminal justice system.
2. Patriot Games, by Tom Clancy. (Berkley, $4.95) C.I.A. confronts terrorists in England, Ireland, and America.
3. Something Under the Bed is Drooling, by Bill Watterson. (Andrews & McMeel, $6.95) Latest Calvin & Hobbes cartoons.
4. The Power of Myth, by Joseph Campbell and Bill Moyers. (Doubleday, $19.95) How mythology illuminates stages of life.
5. Cultural Literacy, by E.D. Hirsch, Jr. (Vintage, $6.95) Information that every American needs to know.
6. Sarum, by Edward Rutherfurd. (Ivy, $5.95) Epic novel tracing the course of English history.
7. Night of the Crash-Test Dummies, by Gary Larson. (Andrews & McMeel, $6.95) More “Far Side” cartoons.
8. The Closing of the American Mind, by Allan Bloom. (Touchstone, $7.95) Reflections on today’s moral climate.
9. Misery, by Stephen King. (Signet/NAL, $4.95) Author held captive by psychotic fan.
10. Weep No More, My Lady, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Dell, $4.95) Mystery at a California health spa.

New & Recommended:
Fall from Grace, by Shelley Ross. (Ballantine, $9.95) Sex, scandal, and corruption in American politics from 1702 to the present.
How to Get an Ivy League Education at a State University, by Martin Nemko, PhD. (Avon, $10.95) Comprehensive profiles of
America’s outstanding public colleges.
The Student's Memory Book, by Bill Adler, Jr. (Doubleday, $7.95) Your key to an exceptional memory—and exceptional grades.
