Friday, January 15, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Charlotte Flix

Good Morning, Vietnam: something away from usual
By BRUCE PLOURDE

What is the first rule of economics? Supply and demand. The populace creates a demand, and it is met by
a sufficient supply. This rule applies to films as well. Hence, Disney has abandoned Dumbo and the Absent-Minded Professor in
favor of Tom Hanks and Daryl Hannah. Hollywood has succumbed to the demands of its public, too, by accepting that
Vietnam is no longer a taboo topic, but in fact a vastly popular and highly profitable one. So it is
that somebody like me, who slept through one of the most dramatic periods in American history, will run out to
see any movie on Vietnam on premiere night, regardless of its faithfulness to truth or its romanticization.

So far the supply has been of limited variety. The innocence of youth dies in 'Nam as the frustrations of
mediating a civil war escalate. A monopoly has been established which, though it meets a demand, offers no alternative.

For those with more exquisite tastes, those who snack on Brie and white wine, the deficit has finally been resolved.
A Vietnam movie has come to satisfy the urge for something away from the usual. Good Morning, Vietnam does not
take place on a battlefield, but in a military radio station in Saigon. It follows the capricious life of Adrian
Cronauer, a radio announcer pulled from his assignment in Greece to entertain the troops in Vietnam with his shocking, swift
wit. He violates every rule quoted to him by his superiors to bring to the soldiers the humor and good
music that help them forget where they are. Yet it is not another MASH, which ignores the war going on
outside the borders of prank-pulling army hospital #4077. It has all the force and dementia of the blood and guts
films, shown from a different angle.

Yet another demand is met by drafting Robin Williams in the lead role as Adrian Cronauer. Not only is he
cute as a button, but he puts his own stray variety of comedy to a practical use in this portrayal.
A demure and subtle serviceman under the guise of his superiors, he transforms into a joke consortium behind the microphone.
His wit rushes forth at 78 RPM while all the audience is set for 33. When the audience stops laughing
at one joke they realize that they have already missed four others. His speed in delivery is matched only by
his ability to assume other personalities. He slips into the voice of his black, uptight weatherman, his helicopter traffic reporter,
or Walter Cronkite as easily as a Yuppie slips into his Porsche 944. More outrageous than Howard Stern, more daring
than Chuck Boozer, his popularity surpasses all demand, limited only by the number of soldiers the U.S. sends there.

Hence the army’s dislike of him. The Sergeant Major, who takes exorbitant pleasure in reminding everybody that he works for
a living and is not to be called Sir, tells Adrian from the first not to meddle with him. The
Lieutenant, who fancies himself a semi-professional comedian, escorts Adrian to the edge of his patience.

CONFIDENTIAL, from p.4

Very little support for you now that you’re away from family and old friends. In the beginning of the school
year, you probably coped with the changes of life in a new environment. Over time, though, this emotional isolation can
lead to depression. Loneliness and depression can go hand in hand. Whenever a loss occurs, be it of self-esteem (e.g.
low grades, social rejection, death, break-up of a relationship, or missing home), the normal reaction is depression. It may look
like everyone you see is well adjusted and has a large circle of friends, but this is often not the
case. Living with peers and comparing oneself to others can be stressing. It is possible to lessen your isolation, but
it will take some emotional effort. Asking someone to have coffee with during a late-night study break or to go
for a bike ride may not be easy at first. You may not find a “best friend” right off, but
you'll probably begin to feel better. Joining a club or taking a class can also help.up an exercise can also
sometimes help to lift your mood. It’s not too late to join and there are many organizations, clubs, and groups
on campus needing new members. If you find your down mood is starting to seriously interfere with your normal functioning
for more than a couple of days, you should seek professional help.

If you know what’s causing your depression, you still may find talking to someone helpful. It can also help you
to look at things differently, to get some relief. Often your situation may not be as overwhelming as you perceive
it. Talking to an objective, trained counselor can help you notice this. If you can pinpoint when the depression or
symptoms started and possibly what’s causing it, then it will be easier to start working on it. To seek help
on campus, you can call the Student Counseling Center located in the basement of the Union. This service is free
of charge and confidential. If you have a question or concern, please write to: Confidential Health, Davidson College Infirmary, Davidson,
NC 28036.

New / Supip Cartodw 0° CHARACTER “TRapiG Canps”) or Trystits 6-Bop # UNtIMiTEp Quantity, Ev rope: As JYAers Are Busity
Weare Over Davvys-Prastic, OvA REAL Hero Consipeas THE PrigutT OF THE Homeless, REAGAAS FeRtIgN AND Ecavomc Pemrciesy, AND THE Strvan
At Damuspsey Coinage. Te The Con cr.vsioN THAT ivi tablishes for him the military definition of humor. The military definition
of humor? Yup. “Y’know, slapstick, the Keystone cops, that kind of thing.” They also reverently suggest that he play such
tunes as will content the troops and keep them happy -- polkas, for instance. Lastly, they assign him his own
personal pair of censors, who cut the readable news items down to local clam bakes while avoiding all mention of
hostilities in Vietnam. These superiors (in rank only), serve quite adequately to explain the General’s statement that military intelligence is
a contradiction in terms. With so much forbidden on only the first day on the job, what would any grown
child do? Adrian ignores all that he’s told and sets up his enterprise of fun with a high-energy vendetta. Every
day he’s told to clean up his act, and every day he pushes the army’s patience a little closer to
the brink. Fan mail and phone calls pour in from all over Vietnam praising the ribald radio announcer. The army
finds that they can’t discipline him without instigating another civil war. So the Sergeant Major and Lieutenant clench their teeth
and wait, hoping his liabilities will soon overshadow his assets.

Robin Williams is not the only celebrity asset to make his appearance in “Good Morning, Vietnam.” Floyd Vivino also has
a role, although insignificant, in this, his first motion picture. What? Who is Floyd Vivino? Obviously, you haven’t spent nearly
enough time in New Jersey if you don’t know who Floyd Vivino is. In the style of Pee Wee Herman,
Floyd Vivino spent upwards of ten years working on a kiddie program called The Uncle Floyd Show. It was carried
on a local station that probably didn’t carry outside the county, yet it was humor defined. He and his crew
of amateur actors, while entertaining the kiddies, filled their dialogues with so many high-yield innuendoes and double-entendres that soon it
attracted the attention of a more mature audience, too. In spite of its local popularity, The Uncle Floyd Show faded
into syndication, rarely to be seen again except as fill programming in the wee hours of the morning. Yet, from
out of New Jersey’s wasteland of would-be actors comes a resurrected Uncle Floyd, playing the cigar-puffing announcer Eddie, looking every
bit as Italian and funny as I remember him in my early formative years. With such an excellent cast, such
a subject, and such humor fleet of tongue and lip, how can I tell you to stay away from this
movie? By all means, get into Charlotte and take part in the fun. Laugh, cry, and estimate your diminishing marginal
return over donuts.

HPS Meter:
Sex - 0
Violence - 10+
Language - 10+
HPS Meter Reading - 20+

You Ever Wondered why you don’t offend someone one of these days? Inaction, apathy, and social vices tear more of
your radical liberal social commentary showing through.
