Friday, April 22, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fluff, Triteness and Diatribe
Freshmen rush into the valley of Death—carrying eggs
By BILL SCOUTEN

All is quiet. Across the vast meadow, the wind gently kisses the newly emerged leaves of spring. In the distant clouds, however, an ominous darkness gathers, the advent of calamity. Quiet at first, the wind begins to churn. The sky darkens, and the sun’s rays are reflected by the black knight’s shield. A cyclone of yells, a scream of wind...the forces meet on that frightful afternoon.

Suited in burlap, glasses affixed to their heads, the freshmen rush into the valley of death. Some are veterans, others are novices. But, as one they charge on, into the fray to defend the homeland. Sounds like the introduction of a Zane Grey novel or perhaps one of those cheap fantasy novels, doesn’t it?! King Arthur? perhaps. The Dutch versus the Zulu tribesmen? perhaps. Davidson inter-fraternity rivalry? exactly!

I’m happy to see pledges and brothers running (for their lives) after having egged a house. Have you ever watched such an event? It’s great! Burlap clad with eye glasses as visors, the pledges and brothers charge, screaming, down toward the opposing force, hurling eggs, food, ice, etc. The opposing force, however, is ready and returns the fire. After exhausting the supply of ammunition, the pledges flee, pursued rapidly by the opposing force, who retaliate with ice and bottle rockets aimed at the closest victim. It’s almost a scene from Monty Python’s “Search for the Holy Grail”...."Run away! Run away!”

To be sure, this is not enough. If you’re lucky, you may see a prisoner or two taken. The consequences sometimes are scary. It’s good to see such atavism at Davidson. What a way to unwind after a grueling week of five reviews (or “Tests” Lucia!), six research papers, and a calendar of events that just won’t stop. The screams, the war-whoops, disrupting the calm serenity of the campus are quite representative of Davidson as a whole.

Oh, the facade. The “peaceful serenity” of Davidson is definitely a caveat. For, underneath all the plaster of old buildings and the concrete-bound steel girders of the new is a psyche wanting to jump free of that which holds it back. Underneath the quiescence of the laid-back Davidson lifestyle is an ulcerating stomach, an uptight student, an unhappy situation.

More atavism, that’s just what Davidson needs. Allow the creativity of the mind to escape from the ball-and-chain of high-pressure situations. Excel! Make the valleys of Davidson not cesspools of stagnation, of quiescence, of dull drear. But, spring to life! Don the burlap sacks and goggles! Be armed with your own personality and make a noise! Charge onto the battlefield of Davidson academia yelling, showing your true colors. Then will Davidson be a truly diverse community. Create a new lifestyle....throw the egg!

JUICE, from previous page

self prone to the ideals of what he considers stylish. Their emaciated, Pre-Raphaelite daughter Lydia (Winona Ryder), as good Mr. Beetlegeuse puts it, looks like Edgar Allan Poe’s daughter. So these two ghosts, who were very conservative and sensible in life, must now set about to try and scare this odd lot of the living from their home. The only trouble is that the family scares the ghosts more than the ghosts can ever hope to frighten the family, who instantly latch on to the trendy pursuit of supernaturalism.

While all their efforts fail, friendly Beetlegeuse keeps reminding them to simply call on his name three times, and he will come into their realm and evict the unwelcome family. Beetlegeuse has no one analogue in the history of literature. He is the Fagan of Purgatory Land; he is the Tony Lumpkin of the Undead; he is Bugs Bunny with a death wish. Where sideburns once caressed his face, moss and mold grow. His manners have deteriorated in pace with his body. He is vulgar, slimy, and opportunistic, yet still knows how to have an offensive good time. But before long his morbid pranks and jokes become more of a concern to the ghosts than the horribly loathsome family which has newly taken up residence.

Fast-paced and funny throughout, Beetlejuice causes involuntary nerve reactions along the smile muscles despite the occasional joke in poor taste. It is a movie all juvenile delinquents will enjoy. The romantic-dramatic-horror-comic side of the film is greatly enhanced by the fantasticSpecial effects abound, and the simply laughable situations in which these characters find themselves. What’s more, it ends happily, for the Adam of Beetlejuice found out what the Adam of Paradise Lost learned: one must keep Paradise fresh and alive in the soul, and carry it on the inside, to make a heaven of hell.

RADIO, from previous page

“Students on campus like to know of ways to get involved and this is a way to do something,” says Smith. “This station will provide the amount of participation that WDAV cannot provide,” says Lord. “We wanted a station that would allow us to do more of what we wanted to do.”

The students say the radio station will be a form of communication with the student body and springs from a broad interest in student involvement with radio. They dispel any notions that the station will be started in opposition or in direct competition with WDAV. “We do not have a bad attitude towards WDAV; they’ve gone out of their way to be nice to us,” Smith says, adding that WDAV gave WALT a collection of rock and alternative music that covers about 50 feet of shelf space. “The way WDAV has grown has given us room to co-exist with them,” Dunn says.

The college’s media board approved the three students’ proposal to create a radio station on Feb. 18. At this point, the radio organizers must lobby for start-up money from the Student Activities Tax council and other sources. They estimate that it will take $2,600 to get the station operating.

Critics of the student effort say carrier current stations have been tried at Davidson before and failed. The idea of a student-run carrier current station first originated at Davidson in the 60s, according to WDAV Station Manager John Clark. A carrier-current station began in 1969 and was later upgraded to a 10-watt FM station by the trustees in 1973. In the mid-1970s, a strong demand for a Charlotte classical music station arose, acknowledged by a petition with 10,000 signatures of Charlotte residents. Davidson said it would help out.

“The college saw there was a need and an opportunity to create an impact on the area in sponsoring this service,” Clark says. As a consequence, students were out of a completely student-run operation. It was in June of 1978 that the once student-run, mainly new wave alternative carrier-current station went from 10 watts to 18,500-watt classical WDAV. Students didn’t take kindly to this. “It was a question of who would run the station,” says Clark. “The college wanted to make it professional. Students stopped operating the station and walked out--taking the console with them. The station was off the air for about six weeks.”

A second student effort at a carrier-current station began in the early 1980s, but died out for lack of student interest. How will WALT be different? Lord, Dunn, and Smith believe a high level of student interest and support will make it viable. To “test the waters” and see if the station is a good idea, the trio drew up a petition soliciting student support last fall. As a result, nearly half of Davidson’s 1,400 students signed after just two days, Lord says. He noted that much of the student enthusiasm surrounding the station came from freshmen and sophomores, which he sees as a sign guaranteeing the station’s survival.

Dean of Students Will Terry watched earlier student efforts come and go. “I hope this group of students can set up an organization to ensure the permanence of the station because it’s just a lot of money, time, and effort for a station to last just a generation of students,” he says. “These three students have put a lot of work into it, and they may have the support to make it successful.”