Thursday, September 22, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson
National News
By ED POWELL

Politics

Looking at the number two slot of the national campaigns, G.O.P. Vice-Presidential nominee Dan Quayle has visited 27 states over
the course of the last month in an attempt to make himself and his positions more familiar to the voters.
Senator Quayle said, “They (the American people) do not know Dan Quayle, they know the name; they’re trying to fill
in the blanks.” Over the course of his month-long campaigning, Senator Quayle has been warmly received by crowds of supporters
in most states, but has occasionally had to confront small groups of protestors at a few of his public appearances.
Foremost among these have been small bands of Vietnam veterans who are angered over Quayle’s enlistment in the Indiana National
Guard during the Vietnam war.

Democratic nominee, Senator Lloyd Bentsen, has also been on the trail and visited Greenville, North Carolina just last week. In
an effort to cover ground that is foreign to Presidential nominee Michael Dukakis, namely the more conservative South, Bentsen claimed
that he spoke three languages: English, Spanish, “and Southern.” The choice of Bentsen for the Vice Presidential slot was aimed
at drawing some of the more moderate Democrats, the so-called “Reagan Democrats,” back to the party mainstream. Thus, Bentsen has
been campaigning in the South, drumming up support for the Democratic ticket that Dukakis might otherwise be unable to secure.

In order to win the Presidential election, a candidate must win 270 of the possible 538 Electoral College votes. Each
state has as many electoral votes as it has House representatives, with states such as California (47), New York (36),
and Texas (29) carrying the most influential electoral weight. Geographically, it appears that the G.O.P. has an edge on the
Democrats as their strong base in the South and in the West has put them ahead in 27 of the
50 states, but in some of the big Electoral College states, such as Pennsylvania, Ohio, and the three mentioned above,
the G.O.P. is either even or behind. The Republican ticket could realistically win 35 of the states and still lose
the election unless it wins a few of these bigger Electoral College states.

In North Carolina, it appears that incumbent Republican Governor Jim Martin has a slight lead in the race for Governor.
A recent Charlotte Observer poll indicated that Martin led Democratic candidate, Lt. Governor Bob Jordan, by a 51% to 43%
margin. The poll, conducted by phone between September 11-14, found Jordan ahead in the typically Democratic eastern half of the
state, but trailing in the more populous Piedmont area. Also, Bush supporters seemed more loyal to Martin than did Dukakis
supporters to Jordan.

Gun Control

The National Rifle Association (NRA) won a major lobbying battle last week as the House failed to ratify an amendment
that would have required a seven-day waiting period for potential gun buyers to purchase guns. The NRA spent an estimated
1.7 million dollars and made about 10 million mailings to combat the amendment which was soundly rejected by a 228-182
margin. Of the 228 who voted against the amendment, the NRA poured over 1.1 million dollars into their campaigns over
the course of the last three election years, for an average of $5,122 per member. Conversely, the 182 who voted
for the amendment received only $831 per member.In other handgun control developments, syndicated columnist Carl Rowan’s bid to have the
charges of unlawful possession of a gun against him dropped was rejected by a D.C. Superior Court Judge. Earlier this
summer, Rowan shot a 19-year-old suburban Maryland boy in the hand when he caught the boy trespassing in his pool.
Rowan claimed that he had tried to properly register his handgun, but was told by D.C. officials that he did
not need to register it since the gun belonged to his son, a former F.B.I. agent. Judge Arthur Burnett, Sr.
said that “these are questions of credibility more appropriately resolved by a jury at trial than by this court,” so
Rowan’s case goes to court Thursday.

Space Shuttle
N.A.S.A. announced last week that the space shuttle Discovery is set to launch on September 29. The target launch date
was finalized after much deliberation and review of the redesigned shuttle. Liftoff has been set for 9:59 A.M. and the
countdown will begin on September 26. Since the Challenger disaster over 32 months ago, over 200 changes have been made
in the shuttle’s design. The most critical of these adjustments involved the solid rocket booster, where improperly sealed O-rings led
to the leak of hot gases and subsequent explosion of the ill-fated Challenger.

Weather
Brownsville, Texas was well prepared for the fury of Hurricane Gilbert this past weekend, but the hurricane never struck. The
hurricane continued on its westward journey, crippling Mexico and never traveling far enough north into Texas to hit it with
its full force. Nevertheless, the Texas coast towns suffered enough damage from the 41 offshoot tornadoes to cost them at
least 35 million dollars in losses.

International News
By BETH DRUMMOND
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev announced that the Soviet Union would give up a key naval base in Vietnam if the
United States would withdraw from its military bases in the Philippines. The U.S. has six bases in the Philippines, two
of which are the largest military installations outside the U.S. Gorbachev’s proposals follow recent overtures made toward Asia involving freezes
in nuclear weapons deployment and joint Sino-Russian security.

Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril, a career military officer, declared himself President of Haiti in a bloody palace coup which ousted
military leader Henri Namphy. Saturday’s coup ended the 31-month Namphy regime, a period characterized by repeated political killings. Avril has
pledged his government will respect human rights and encourage national unity. Avril is the fifth president in the past two
years to lead the troubled Haitian state.

Speaking of revolutions, the military seized control of Burma in a coup which resulted in the death of at least
150 people so far. Soldiers reportedly opened fire on civilian mobs gathered in Rangoon, the capital, and several surrounding provinces.
The U.S. has urged Burmese military authorities to end their policy of violence towards anti-martial law demonstrators; however, the unrest
is expected to continue.

Elsewhere in the world, the leftist Nicaraguan Government met with U.S.-backed contra rebels for the first time in three months.
The meeting was initiated as a step towards resuming the high-level peace talks which collapsed June 3. Despite negotiation efforts,
both sides remain sharply divided on ways to end the country’s 7-year civil war.

We'll Pick Up Your Repair Work. Call: 663-8812
Bookbags
Located only six miles away: 170 N. Main St. Mooresville
