Football team looks better, but still falls 34-16
By BRUCE NEWSOME

Davidson opened its 1988 football season looking much better than last year’s squad; however, this improvement did not translate into
victory as the Presbyterian Blue Hose won 34-16.

Head Coach Vic Gatto saw a big improvement in the ’Cats effort compared to last year’s 24-7 loss to the
Blue Hose. He said: “I think we are getting to be a good football team.”

Sophomore tailback Terry Hines provided the ’Cats with an effective running game. In his first college game at tailback, Hines
gained 87 yards on 21 carries and scored one touchdown. Quarterback Peter Hughes also gave the ’Cats a good game
with 16 of 29 passes completed for 180 yards and one touchdown. However, he was also intercepted 3 times. Two
of the interceptions were in Davidson territory and resulted in 2 Presbyterian touchdowns.

A final plus for Davidson was the play of the defensive line and linebackers. They played well against the bigger
Presbyterian offensive line. Senior captain and defensive end David Lilly, tackle Mike Rogers, and linebacker Tony Hubbard all had big
games. However, the play of the defensive secondary proved to be Davidson’s Achilles’ heel. Presbyterian had 6 plays for over
25 yards. One of them was a 47-yard touchdown pass and three others led to Blue Hose touchdowns. The ’Cats
cornerbacks and safeties did not have the speed to keep up with the Blue Hose receivers and running backs.

For the first 27:49 of the first half, the game was evenly played, and it appeared that there might be
an upset in the making. With 2:11 remaining in the half, the ’Cats trailed only 6-3 and had blown an
earlier scoring opportunity. At the start of the second quarter, Bryan Skelton’s interception set up Davidson with a golden opportunity
at the Presbyterian 28. In a 13-play series marred by 3 Davidson holding penalties and 2 Blue Hose penalties, the
offense only moved the ball 2 yards and Brian Jacob’s field goal attempt was tipped at the line.

On their next offensive series, the team showed some maturity by driving 35 yards to the 9-yard line. The key
to the drive was the hard running of Hines. The ’Cats were unable to get a touchdown, but Jacob connected
from 26 yards out for a field goal.

Disaster struck when Presbyterian got the ball with 2:11 remaining in the half. The Blue Hose marched 72 yards in
8 plays and capped the drive with a 15-yard touchdown pass. Rather than going into the locker room down by
only 3 and having the momentum, Davidson trailed by 10 and were left shaking their heads.

The ’Cats regrouped at halftime. On their opening possession, they drove 87 yards. The series was highlighted by a 40-yard
touchdown pass from Hughes to freshman wide receiver Horace Hamm which pulled the ’Cats within 3 points. However, the ’Cats
were to get no closer. Presbyterian, which entered the game ranked 10th in the NAIA poll, proved worthy of their
high ranking as they went 74 yards for a touchdown. The scoring play was a 47-yard pass to a Blue
Hose receiver who got well behind the Davidson secondary.

Davidson did not give up, though. After another Presbyterian touchdown, safety Harry Kuykendall addressed Davidson athletic policy.

President sees the future as “a very complicated call for the whole community”
By HAP BRYANT

Davidson President John Kuykendall shared his insight into the situation of athletics at the college in an interview on Tuesday.
As a starting point in the Davidson hierarchy, Kuykendall’s opinions...are important to understanding the state of Davidson athletics. He approached
such topics as conference affiliation, the new athletic facility, and the Trustee athletic policy, giving his reaction to recent changes
in the athletic program. He indicated that many of these changes were inevitable given the priorities set up by the
Trustees and the philosophy of other Southern Conference schools. “Our policy, though committed, was taking us in another direction,” Kuykendall
said. He indicated that the Southern Conference, once sympathetic to Davidson’s objectives, has changed and has basically left Davidson behind,
particularly on the gridiron. Consequently, “that left us with very few options” regarding a football affiliation. With the lack of
success in the Southern Conference, Kuykendall said, “the Trustees looked on the Colonial League as our best prospect for the
future in Division IAA.”

He expected that membership in the new Colonial League would alienate the Southern Conference institutions, who were no longer willing
to allow Davidson to participate in conference sports other than football while competing for a football conference championship. In addition,
the Southern Conference had recently adopted a requirement for women’s basketball on a Division I level, a requirement that Davidson
could not meet. Accordingly, Davidson sought an extension of the waiver while conceding that the affiliation should terminate. “It seemed
to me that we had made our bed in that respect. We didn’t deserve to stay on our terms... We
also left with the feeling that they [the Southern Conference] had made a mistake.”

As Davidson now must undergo one or more seasons as an independent in sports other than football, Kuykendall reiterated Davidson’s
commitment to finding an appropriate conference affiliation. Presently, he sees the best opportunity in the Colonial Athletic Association, consisting of
teams like Navy, East Carolina, James Madison, Richmond, and William and Mary. However, the Colonial Association’s plans for expansion are
cloudy. Kuykendall said that “we have been given the promise of a fair hearing” by the conference, but “we have
not been given substantial encouragement.”

The search for a conference affiliation continues, as the administration attempts to fulfill the stipulations of the Trustee Athletic policy,
drafted in 1973. “In some respects, we have come closer to realizing the policy than in previous years.” In particular,
he mentioned the resurgence of the basketball program under Coach Bobby Hussey: “Coach Hussey has put together the kind of
program that the Trustees hoped for when they drafted the policy.” Also, he indicated substantial success in non-revenue sports, like
baseball, soccer, and women’s tennis.

However, he recognizes the present difficulty of the football program, saying “the one piece of the policy which has not
been fulfilled is obviously the football part.” “We have tried as best we can to fulfill this [the Trustee athletic
policy]. It’s a mixed picture in terms of success.”

By Ken vom Schiavi

Ken vom Schiavi picked off a pass and set up a Hines touchdown on a 1-yard run. Coach Gatto elected
to go for the 2-point conversion, but Hughes was upended short of the goal line. Then with 6:50 left and
the ‘Cats down by 11, Gatto made an interesting decision by trying an onside kick. The move backfired as the
Blue Hose recovered at the Davidson 48 and scored 7 plays later to make the score 34-16 and put the
game out of reach. Davidson opens up Colonial League play at 2:00 Saturday at home against Lehigh.
