Wednesday, February 10, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian interview: Edwin Yoder

Davidsonian: Tell us a little bit about your background. I understand you grew up in Greensboro.

Yoder: Actually, I grew up in Meadow. My father ran a school there. Do you know where Meadow is? You blink your eyes and you may miss it.

Davidsonian: You attended UNC-CH and edited the paper there. Had you intended on going into journalism when you entered school?

Yoder: Well, I was thinking about it. I was already interested in it, but I really hadn’t made up my mind and really didn’t ever make up my mind. I just sort of went into it and stayed in it. But it was definitely an interest of mine, although I wasn’t in the journalism school.

Davidsonian: Are newspapers now looking only for reporters who have degrees in journalism?

Yoder: Not to my knowledge. As a matter of fact, I think probably that most editors I know would be looking for a good, sound arts and sciences background.

Davidsonian: You have been involved in the newspaper business for the last 20-25 years. What have been some of the major changes you’ve seen in the way the media approaches national politics? For instance, it seems that the press has become much more aggressive in the manner in which it reports the news.

Yoder: Well, I don’t know whether it’s a difference in the degree of aggressiveness or not. The rules of journalism certainly have changed. My belief is that the main reason why they changed was the McCarthy period. It was a very formative period in my life and my attitude towards things in politics. There is an interesting book called "The Fourth Branch of Government" that explains a lot of this very well. What happened was the old rules of journalism required what was known as objectivity. There was a slavish effort to avoid not simply editorializing but anything that might smack of commentary, interpretation—anything that might put a news story into any kind of context—was practically forbidden under the old rules of print journalism. It was “who, what, when, where, but not why.” I think that there was a realization that this was a setup for McCarthy because all he had to do was tell the most irresponsible lies which the diligent reporter certainly knew to be lies. But the reporters really had no way of indicating in the news stories these gross distortions of fact. As you probably know from your history reading, he [McCarthy] caused a great deal of difficulty. I think that was the major event in the evolution—the single thing that changed the rules of journalism more than anything else. Obviously, television has also had an impact on print, but I am not really quite clear on what it has been. I mean I would be speculating and theorizing about it. In the case of a newspaper like USA Today, it’s quite clear that some attempt has been made to sort of translate television values into print. But I think it [television] has deepened the relevance of interpretive journalism, news analysis, all these things, because television really deals in very superficial impressions. What most people think of as news today is to get from television what is really not news at all. It’s really sort of random impressions of things. It’s not news in the sense in which I would use the term: in the sense that it conveys a really precise understanding of what’s going on. Anyway, I think that it has had an impact and I think television has made it even more important for print journalism to be as interpretive as it can be—short of editorializing news.

Davidsonian: What effect do you think the loss of competitive papers in major markets has had? Very few major metropolitan areas now have competing papers. Do you think that’s had much of an effect on print journalism?

Yoder: Well, it’s really hard to put your finger on it. I really don’t know. I don’t think it has lowered the quality of journalism by any means. I think that would be a false assumption if only because it has concentrated resources in a monopoly newspaper, where you have ownership with a sense of responsibility. It probably has generally improved a lot of journalism. But I don’t see a lot of papers on a regular basis. I see the major North Carolina papers when I come down here, and when I travel elsewhere I see the other papers. I don’t see any noticeable decline in the quality of the papers. In theory, it is certainly a good thing to have competitive journalism in every town. As you may know, I was an editor of The Washington Star, and I did get to see that go under. And I did get to see The Charlotte News go under. Two of the three newspapers I’ve worked for are now extinct. I don’t know whether I’ve had that much to do with it; I’m not blamed for it. Anyway, it would be much better in Washington, in my view, if there was strong competition. I thought it was a healthier situation all the way around when we had the Star as a strong competitor to the Post and as a strong institutional presence in Washington.

By JOHN BARROW and TOM MOORE

Davidsonian: You've mentioned McCarthy as having an effect on the press. Do you think that Watergate had any similar type effects?

Yoder: Well, Watergate made every ambitious reporter into a so-called “investigative reporter,” as if investigations had been suddenly invented. I think Woodward and Bernstein did some very good journalism, did some good digging. They turned out a lot of stories, but I never thought that they were primarily responsible for turning the Nixon administration out. That really was done by institutional processes, by the courts, and by the grand jury indictments and by the Ervin Committee Investigation. I’m not saying it wasn’t a valuable contribution. It did tend to have two effects—it made every young reporter ambitious to be a new “Woodstein,” and it gave everybody the idea that the press had become such a powerful institution, that it can sort of at whim remove Presidents from office and the like. People given to conspiracy theories see the press as constantly plotting to compete with the President. And I suppose there are people in journalism who think that they are almost as important as people in government, but there are not very many, really.

Davidsonian: What’s your view on the recent Supreme Court decision which allows for the censoring of school newspapers by school officials?

Yoder: Well, I’m in sort of...a box on that because, while I haven’t written a piece since that decision, I have to admit to you that I did write a piece based on the court briefs in which I predicted and approved of the way the court decision came out. I think that certainly the distinction has to be made—and incidentally, I got a lot of disproving mail, a whole high school journalism class somewhere—I think a distinction certainly can be made between high school newspapers and college newspapers. And it really depends on the circumstances. That paper [in the court decision], if I remember correctly, was in effect a laboratory paper for a journalism class. At least in educational theory, it really didn’t have any independent status of the kind that some school papers have. Where school papers have an independent status, I think it would be more problematical. I don’t think it has major implications for student journalism. It certainly reinforces the authority of high school administrators, but I think it needs a little reinforcing. In fact, the fact is that the court, by in effect destroying the doctrine of sovereign immunity in the case of school officials, has now exposed school administrators, and teachers to some degree, but mainly administrators and trustees and school boards to liability. There was a time when school officials and school boards, being theoretically employees of the state—public schools—would be immune to liability for, let’s say if the school paper libeled somebody. But that is no longer the case. The court has removed the protection from school officials, so it’s no surprise to me that, although I don’t think that this was the ground for the decision, but it’s certainly no surprise to me that it would come along and at least give the school officials some authority to protect themselves from libel suits that can be brought against a student paper, which in this case, might have been a distinct possibility, as I recall the facts. But anyway, I haven’t read the opinion yet, so I can’t give you a considered opinion of the opinion itself.

Davidsonian: I’m curious to hear your response to the State of the Union Address made this week. Specifically, Reagan mentioned several times the revolution he has brought to Washington. Having been a Washington observer, do you agree with his claim that he has brought a revolution to Washington?

Yoder: Well, let me first say something about the State of the Union Address. I think it is almost completely irrelevant, and it’s show business, and almost no attention was paid to it beyond just the formal courtesy of the reading of it. It’s of no significance politically or governmentally. Columnist Edwin Yoder lectured Jan. 29. It’s been several years in fact since any Reagan State of the Union Address has been of any great relevance to what people conceive of as the real problems. The “Reagan Revolution” is a problem. I don’t think Reagan has had any significant effect in foreign policy. His rhetoric was sort of standard ram-boilerplate right-wing stuff before he went into office, but Reagan is temperamentally very moderate, and his policies really as far as foreign policy [is concerned]—with the single exception of Central America—have not significantly departed, I think, from the sort of mainstream foreign policy. Maybe you could argue that the aid to Angola is something that the Democratic administration would not have done, and there may be some nuance of the South African policy that would have been different under a Democratic administration, almost certainly would have been. Although, again, I think the Reagan Administration has had a bum rap on the South African policy because the man who has done the South African policy is a really good, entirely informed person, and knows Southern Africa better than any of his critics. When they chose “constructive engagement” as the sort of label of the policy, it gave them misleading impressions, I think. But you know, setting aside shadings in some of those areas and the major exception Central America—and I think it is a significant exception—he’s been mainstream in foreign policy by and large. So you would have to say if there has been a revolution it has to be in domestic policy. Well, what’s happened in domestic policy? Reagan’s great selling point, his unique selling proposition, was a balanced budget. But his policies, and they are his policies, have, as you well know, unbalanced the budget to a degree completely without precedent, not only in American history, but as far as I know, in the history of any organized society. I don’t think that the economic situation in this country is healthy. I think we’re skating on very thin ice, and when I think of Reagan’s smooth speeches, I think about skating on thin ice. He does a lot of skating on very thin ice, and the ice is very thin on the economic plank. The alternatives, as I see it, are either there will be some substantial correction of fiscal policy in the next three or four years, or we'll have a major inflation spiral, probably coupled with a major recession, both of which would have very destructive effects. If we have the two in tandem, the effect will be absolutely devastating. My economist friends in Washington who worry about policy, worry about what would happen if the economy, as it very well might, suddenly begins to lurch into a very substantial contraction because when you’re already running deficits of this scale, you really don’t have any elbow room for counter-cyclical policy. Whatever Reagan has done to the fiscal structure of the country, I think, is largely going to be undone and reversed. It has to be. So you have to eliminate that as a part of the “Reagan Revolution.” That leaves what he has done to the tax structure, and I think that is significant. But after all, that really is Bill Bradley’s bill as much as it was Reagan’s. Reagan and Regan jumped on what was already a moving bandwagon as far as a revision of the tax structure was concerned last year. So what does that leave you with? I really don’t know. What is the “Reagan Revolution”? He’s had a healthy effect on the ceremonial presence and influence of the presidential office. He has restored some dignity and so forth to the office—as a ceremonial office. What I always say is that he has been a pretty stylish king but a lousy prime minister. If there’s been a “Reagan Revolution” I really don’t know what it is.