Friday, January 8, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

Why so secret?

When Davidson faculty members’ contracts aren’t renewed, nobody tells them why. They're dismissed without any indication of exactly what they’ve
done wrong, and the rest of us can only wonder along with them. It doesn’t have to be this way.

The Davidson College Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures states that when the time comes to make a decision on a
professor’s contract renewal, “...the Vice President for Academic Affairs [the Dean of Faculty] may at his discretion offer the candidate
an opportunity for discussion of negative criticism which he has received during the evaluation process.” The Code states further that
after the President has decided whether to approve the decision of the Dean of Faculty (and he usually does), the
Dean “...will be available to the instructor to discuss, insofar as confidentiality permits, strengths and weaknesses in the instructor’s performance
to date.”

In short, although the College “...is not obligated to show cause...” when refusing to renew a contract, the decision lies
entirely in the hands of one person: the Dean of Faculty. If he wants, he can tell the professor everything
he’d like to know about the grounds for his evaluation.

Davidson used to grant its faculty members this courtesy, at least on occasion. For some reason, the current Dean of
Faculty, Robert Williams, seems to have decided that the faculty evaluation process operates best when its subjects don’t know much
about it. There are some good reasons to hold this point of view. For example, faculty members might be less
willing to criticize their co-workers if they knew their statements might become public knowledge.

Still, it’s possible to inform contract-renewal candidates of the reasons behind the Dean’s decisions without telling them where he got
his information. Sources can and should be kept confidential. Keeping anything else secret is a dangerous practice.

To begin with, it robs faculty members of the constructive criticism they need to improve their professional expertise. A ‘fired’
faculty member has a right to know the basis of a decision which may force him to leave an institution
which he loves, or to move away from a town where he expected to spend the rest of his life.

From a community standpoint, the decision to keep people in the dark is dangerous because it sets the rumor mills
running. When folks don’t have the information they rightfully deserve, they tend to exaggerate the things they do know and
fabricate the rest. The societies of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union provide some good examples of this phenomenon.

So the college community winds up tearing its hair out. What can students think, for example, in the midst of
this information vacuum? All they know is that John Engell and Frank Albinder, two instructors of almost universally acclaimed teaching
ability, strength of purpose, and personal warmth, have been unceremoniously sacked in a space of less than nine months. They
also know that other professors, some of whom they regularly avoid because of their uninspiring classroom performances, have been granted
tenure during the same period of time. Since even the faculty involved seem to have no knowledge of why these
decisions were made, the students can only wallow in their ignorance and get angry. They protest and pray, for they
can do nothing else; they’ve been denied the right to make an intelligent decision.

What can faculty think, without adequate information to guide them? Davidson continues to affirm its commitment to “good teaching,” which
seems to mean different things, depending upon who you ask. Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, for example, says, “I keep
trying to tell the Faculty that I see research and professional activity as a crucial ingredient in good teaching, rather
than a diversion from it. I think that unless you have the quality of mind and the drive to test
your ideas against those of your peers through publication, through scholarship, through creative activity, then in a way we don’t
have any quality control over what gets taught in the classroom and how it gets taught.” In other words, “good
teaching” absolutely must include “having something in print,” at least in most disciplines. If the evaluation process is kept secret,
can the new faculty members expect to know what’s really required of them?

Davidson can solve this problem in two simple steps. First, of course, the College must make the free exchange of
information an inherent part of the evaluation process. Next, the evaluation procedure must be revised to place most of the
burden of decision upon a faculty review committee. The great thing about a faculty review committee is that it would
remove the burden of decision from the Dean of Faculty (whose recommendations are rarely challenged by the President or the
Board of Trustees) and place it in the hands of a group of individuals who would openly debate theirrecommendations before
passing them along to the President. This could help Davidson avoid serious mistakes which it might make if all evaluations
continued to depend upon the judgment of a single person. Consider this hypothetical outline of the problems Davidson might face
if it failed to choose the proper person to fill the critical post of Dean of Faculty. Such a person
might come to Davidson with little understanding of the high regard we have for quality classroom teachers, and of our
disdain for institutions where faculty evaluation is based almost exclusively on the “publish or perish” principle. Such a person might
mistakenly try to “reform” Davidson by overemphasizing the importance of scholarly reputation and publication. No matter how well-intentioned, such a
person might scare away dozens of quality teachers by fundamentally altering our evaluation criteria. Even if he was only here
for a short time, such a person could damage much of what Davidson stands for and could leave a scar
which might not heal for decades. Somehow, the scenario doesn’t seem too far-fetched.

“To Hew With ‘TEACHING QUALITY! I Didn’t Like Its Taste in Music, and It Was My Least Favorite Choir?”

Letters

Drop the charade

To the Editor,

As I look back upon my experience at Davidson, I find that it is peppered with many highlights. I suspect
my experience was not unique: articulate, caring professors, an interesting student body, and a plethora of horizon-expanding activities. Nowhere among
these memories is a warm (or even tepid) memory involving intercollegiate sports. Davidson is less than half the size of
the next smallest Division I team in the NCAA. And unlike good ol’ State U., we don’t need a bunch
of slightly senile alumni getting drunk at home football games to deceive themselves into thinking that theirs is a good
college that prepared them well for life.

Davidson is now preparing to build a new sports complex. Quite rightly it cites the need for this complex as
the heavy use of the current complex by the students. This affords a unique opportunity for the trustees not only
to recognize the reality of the Davidson life but also to take a positive step to move the college forward.
The time has come for Davidson to become a Division III school. Let’s all drop the charade and put the
student back into student-athlete. As a Division III school, scholarships will be just that: money for scholars. Davidson needs to
concern itself with preparing students for a complex, changing world, not for a massacre at the hands of some football
team from a state university of ten or twenty thousand. It’s high time that the trustees recognized their responsibility and
put the school where it belongs on the athletic field: Division III.

T. Herbert Dimmock ‘74
Baltimore, MD

Issues trivial

Congratulations, Ken Bogert! Despite your hyperbolic reasoning, your series of articles has been able to achieve what little else has
managed to do. It has succeeded in making a sleepy community take a rare introspective look at itself. It makes
little difference that most peoples’ introspection has amounted to saying quiet prayers for the maintenance of the status quo. Where
previously only apathy existed, there is now concern for an “issue.” Maybe you should redirect your editorial pen toward issues
which have bypassed Davidson; you might raise student concern to the same fiery pitch which you have generated in your
discussion of the fraternity issue. There are dozens of issues which demand consideration: the need for service in a college
community, the role of lawyers (in oiling the wheels of commerce), the arms race, the slaughter of whales, or the
recurrence of famine in Africa. Who knows? Perhaps the controversy surrounding fraternities might turn out to be the spark that
will move sluggish minds off “The Court” and on to consideration of national and international issues. Then again, we could
just as easily go back to discussing the quality of the beer served at frat parties.

Ranjit Rawlley

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the lofty summit of snow-capped
“Mount Union,” overlooking the picturesque parking lots and garbage dumpsters of the new Pritchard-Mart. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per
year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation,
Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill Scouten,
Florrie Snively.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Oltrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Laura Dodenhoff, Callie Hammond, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love, Linda Tatsapaugh.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.
