Friday, September 30, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson: International issues
By CAROL GATEWOOD

El Salvador—U.S. military personnel clashed with leftist El Salvadoran guerrillas in a four-hour skirmish Tuesday in which at least sixteen
Salvadoran guerrillas were killed. The fighting, which resulted after rebels attacked a military base two weeks ago, is the first
to be acknowledged since the Reagan administration sent military advisors to El Salvador in 1981.

Warsaw—The outlawed Polish labor union Solidarity, which a few weeks ago seemed to be gaining ground in their plight for
government recognition, is in danger again due to the selection of Mieczysław Rakowski as the new premier of the Communist
Party Central Committee. Rakowski is noted for his aggressive policy toward Solidarity and is deeply distrusted by many Solidarity leaders.
Chief organizer of the movement Lech Wałęsa comments on the choice of Rakowski, “We hope he will come with a
willingness for reform which is what this country needs.”

West Berlin—The Group of Seven, the leading industrial powers of the world, met to reaffirm their policy of stabilizing the
American dollar. This decision was made in an effort to keep financial markets calm before the U.S. Presidential election. Experts
do not think that the policy will succeed.

Moscow—General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev expressed frustrations toward Soviet press editors who have said that his policies of glasnost and perestroika,
designed to revitalize the Soviet Union, have faltered. Gorbachev claimed the main problem was “a gap between our goals and
our work.” He criticized the editors for failing to support his efforts in their publications.

On Friday, the U.S. and the Soviet Union met to discuss further nuclear arms control issues. Reagan and Schulz met
with Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze in Washington and exchanged proposals. Officials stated that limits on long-range nuclear warheads “aren’t imminent.”

Last Thursday Soviet authorities sent military troops to the capital of Armenia in an effort to control ethnic unrest. Azerbaijanis
and Armenians have been clashing over the territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. Both groups claim the territory as their own, and several
citizens have been injured in protests over the dispute. This has been the most forceful move taken by the Soviet
Union since conflict began in February.

Beyond Davidson: National issues is (surprise!) not appearing this week. Sure surprised us, too. Ed Powell was spotted drunk at
KA the night this was due. (See p.1)

Not Beyond Davidson: News from the town
By STAN HUMPHRIES

Davidson College students are apt to forget that the institution is not all by itself in this stretch of Mecklenburg
County. In fact, the college sits in a town with a history as long as the college’s and happenings just
as, well, interesting.

Students missed the heated town discussions that took place over the summer concerning the new Davidson City Hall. Discussions have
now bogged down over the color of brick that should be used, with one faction advocating brown brick and the
other pushing for the already omnipresent red brick. One Davidson commissioner says that this controversy is as big as a
recent controversy over the leash law in Davidson. As town commissioner Randy Kincaid says, “Everyone has an opinion on architecture,
just like everyone is an expert on dogs.”

The new funeral home in Huntersville tried a novel concept by holding an open house for the public which turned
out to be a great success. Although open for business last spring, one previously had to have unfortunate circumstances in
order to get to see inside. For those with not much to do on a Sunday afternoon (or those who
are simply incredibly morbid), the public tours were a popular attraction featuring the 199-seat chapel and the recording booth to
record the funeral for later listening. It was not made clear why one would want to listen to a funeral
more than once.

A Charlotte woman allegedly went on a demolition spree last Saturday in Davidson and downtown Cornelius leaving mayhem in her
path. Altavia Phillips, at the helm of her Ford, allegedly began by swerving wide at an intersection on Main Street
and nailing a Dodge stopped at the light. Not hesitating at all, Phillips allegedly proceeded into Cornelius, where she rear-ended
another Dodge on Catawba Avenue. She then allegedly backed into another car while backing away from her first target. She
was then apparently forced to call it a day.

A population boom has hit area schools. Huntersville and Cornelius elementary schools report almost one hundred more students than expected.
Davidson Elementary is behind the other schools, however, with only six more students than expected.

Burger King is soon to open in Cornelius. Macy’s and Saks Fifth Avenue are reportedly waiting to see what color
the city hall will be before they finalize plans to open up stores on...Main Street. A spaghetti supper for Davidson
Elementary’s PTA is to be held on October 7. Update on the region’s leadership: Russell Knox continues as the town’s
long-time mayor with his brother, Joe, serving virtually as Mooresville’s mayor-for-life. As one Mooresville resident stated, “Frankly, I can’t remember
when Joe wasn’t our mayor.” Many may remember Eddie Knox, former mayor of Charlotte and Rusty and Joe’s brother, who
ran for governor a while back and learned that the Knox brothers’ empire did not necessarily extend outside Mecklenburg County
as he lost to Davidson graduate and chemistry professor Jim Martin. A summer away from school has seen no coup
attempts on the ruling brothers of North Mecklenburg and everyone seems fairly content as far as mayoral leadership goes.

By JAY CHAUDHURI

For most Davidson students, the summer of ’88 will be remembered as short, hot, and dry. But for twenty-one Davidson
ROTC cadets, the summer was physically demanding and mentally tough. Fifteen seniors attended Advanced Camp at Fort Bragg, North Carolina;
two juniors attended Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Kentucky; two cadets attended Airborne School at Fort Benning, Georgia; and two
cadets attended Air Assault School at Fort Campbell, Kentucky.

Advanced Camp is a mandatory requirement for any cadet with three years of ROTC experience. The Davidson cadets who went
to Fort Bragg were seniors John Black, Bob Davidson, Bill Dixon, John Engel, John Fitzgerald, Mark Harris, Ray Harshbarger, Jeff
Muir, Eric Peterson, John Scherer, Sherb Sentell, Rick Sheridan, Bill Sutton, Rufus Timberlake, and Dave Trontz. The camp’s objective is
to determine if these cadets have what Colonel Diehl, Professor of Military Science, calls the “right stuff.” That “right stuff”
is determined through a rigorous and demanding program which included being scrutinized on sixteen leadership dimensions (initiative, delegation, judgment, etc.)
and a minimum of twelve opportunities to lead other cadets in groups ranging from a squad to a company.

The Advanced Camp at Fort Bragg included 3,000 cadets from two hundred universities and colleges ranging from Maine to South
Carolina. The Davidson cadets performed “credibly” against the other Eastern coast schools with more than half of them receiving a
rating of “superior.” However, for some cadets, Advanced Camp did not mark the end of their military training. Five Davidson
students had a “golden opportunity” to participate in Cadet Troop Leader Training (CDLT). CDLT gave the cadet an opportunity to
act as a Third Lieutenant, the same responsibility they would have after being commissioned. Peterson worked with basic trainees at
Fort Jackson; Black worked in an armor platoon for the 82nd Airborne at Fort Bragg; Timberlake worked for a transportation
platoon for the 82nd Airborne; Scherer was an assistant Signal platoon leader at Fort Gordon; and Harshbarger spent five weeks
in Germany with a transportation unit. CDLT allowed these five cadets to apply tactical and practical skills in a real-world
environment.

Basic Camp gave juniors Philip Brooks and Jamie McAden the opportunity to cover the first two years of ROTC within
six weeks. Although the program was more skills than performance-oriented, both students were still evaluated on leadership positions. Brooks, reflecting
back on the six weeks, said, “It is true about Basic Camp that the two things you remember are the
gas chamber and the drill sergeant. Other than that it was a piece of cake.”

Two cadets, Sentell and sophomore Mike Peters, attended Airborne School. In a physically rigorous program, they both learned the art
of military parachuting. “The first jump was a blur,” said Sentell, “because I was falling at twenty-two feet a second
with my chute.” Two other cadets, Timberlake and sophomore David Taylor, went to Air Assault School where, in ten days,
they learned how helicopters were used in the infantry. The highlight of the program was rappelling out of a helicopter.
“For me, it was a big confidence builder,” commented Taylor, “because it was tough both mentally and physically.” Both these
schools are considered among the elites of the army and are completely independent from cadet schools.

Commented Diehl on this year’s graduating ROTC class, “We have in the class of 1989 some of the best officer
prospects in a while as a group. These young and sensitive cadets will have a profound impact not just in
the U.S. Army but on life as well.”

New horse training facility (Hunter/Jumper) needs grooms (full & part-time). Must have own transportation and live within twenty minutes of
Huntersville. Call: “A” Cone at 338-1010.

Art/Architecture - Business/Economics - Human/Health Services - Journalism/Communications - Engineering - Visual/Performing Arts - Politics

All programs include: 16 semester-hour credits, 9-week internship, apartment, British faculty. Offered fall, spring, and summer semesters.

BOSTON UNIVERSITY International Programs 725 Commonwealth Avenue, B-2 Boston, MA 02215
