Thursday, October 27, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson:
By TRIPP HELMS

Middle East
Political discussion between leaders of Middle Eastern countries and Israeli candidates has intensified with the approach of parliamentary elections in
Israel on November 1. This past weekend, Jordan’s King Hussein met with PLO Chief Yasir Arafat and Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak and agreed to form a new confederation that will work for peace in the region. Few details of the
proposal were given. The agreement drew sharp criticism from Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, the candidate for the conservative Likud
bloc. Shamir claimed that Hussein’s endorsement of Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres was outrageous and he called for the people
of Israel to reject it. On Sunday, while the two candidates debated in Israel, King Hussein appeared on ABC’s “Nightline,”
and said that Shamir’s re-election would be “an absolute disaster.” Sources in Cairo say that Arab leaders are apparently seeking
to prevent Shamir’s re-election in support of Peres’ plans for Mideast peace.

London
Last Thursday, legislation was introduced in the British House of Commons that would abolish the right of suspects in Northern
Ireland to remain silent during police questioning. The legislation is the latest effort by the British Government to control the
Irish Republican Army. Seen by the public as a clear threat to civil liberties in Great Britain, the new law
may take effect early next year in Ireland and eventually in England and Wales. Northern Ireland Secretary Tom King stated
that the silence techniques used by terrorists with the police are now used by suspects of other serious felonies such
as racketeering. The new law will allow a judge to regard silence as an indication of guilt. The legislation is
expected to pass since its conservative supporters have a 101-seat majority in Parliament.

West Germany
Continuing efforts to improve relations with the Soviet Union, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl on Monday began a 4-day trip to
Moscow. With the elimination of the intermediate-range nuclear weapons beginning in central Europe, Kohl has repeatedly stressed the importance of
an improved East-West political climate. Economic issues will undoubtedly be another key topic area as West Germany seeks to capitalize
on the growing business opportunities under Mikhail Gorbachev’s new openness towards the West. Some Americans fear Gorbachev may be trying
to drive a wedge between West Germany and the other NATO nations. Kohl stresses that his efforts are in line
with the overall trend of improved Western ties with the Soviets.

Beyond Davidson:
National Issues
International Issues

Arms-for-Hostages
The State Department confirmed Wednesday that it cooperated with the Chilean and Israeli governments to block a deal last spring
when Iran sought to exchange U.S.-built F5 jet fighters for the freedom of 4 American hostages. The Chilean government was
trying to unload the jet fighters as it could no longer obtain spare parts from the U.S. due to sanctions
brought on by its abhorrent record of human rights violations. In the final stages of the deal, which began last
December, Iran’s parliamentary Speaker Hashemi Rafsanjani authorized Raymond Molina, a Cuban-American currently living in Florida, to inform the U.S. that
the hostages would be freed if the U.S. allowed Iran to acquire Chile’s F5’s. The $170 million deal was rejected
by the U.S. under a policy known as “Operation Staunch,” which is meant to block shipment of weapons to Iran.

By ED POWELL

Congress
The 100th Congress adjourned on Saturday at 3:16 in the morning, but not before pushing through some last-minute legislation. One
of the biggest of these was a $2.8 billion bill to combat drugs. A voice vote approval was given to
the drug measure which authorizes more money for drug education and treatment, as well as stiffer penalties for users and
traffickers. Preservationists were able to push through a bill that will save a Civil War battleground from the bulldozers of
commercial developers. The 522-acre tract of land outside of Washington D.C. is the site of General Robert E. Lee’s headquarters
during the Second Battle of Manassas in 1862 and will become part of Manassas National Battlefield Park. The decision marks
a big victory for preservationists over the Hazel/Peterson Companies who had planned to build a shopping mall on the site.
In the wake of last year’s crash and growing concern over the ethics of the brokers on Wall Street, Congress
passed legislation aimed...At cutting down on the inside trading, provisions were passed that would greatly increase the monetary penalties and
jail terms of those convicted of insider trading. Despite all of their difficulties, the 100th U.S. Congress was able to
pass a number of bills that represented a wide range of interests. From bills on the poor and the elderly
to the protection of U.S. workers in plants, Congress was able to pass much of their legislation with bipartisan support.
Despite this, they leave as their legacy the most visible flaw of the government of the 1980s, a growing federal
deficit.

Business
On Wall Street, the newest game in town seems to be giant leveraged buy-outs of large successful companies. After last
week’s $11.4 billion buy-out offer by the Phillip Morris Companies for Kraft, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. have offered $20.6
billion to buy out R.J.R. Nabisco.

Animal Interest
Rescue efforts continue as workers try to save the lives of two California gray whales trapped in the ice off
the coast of Alaska. The whales, surrounded by ice two miles offshore, lingered too long before migrating south for the
winter and are now limited to small breathing holes sawed in the ice by rescue workers. Efforts to break up
the ice with boats have proved unsuccessful and they are presently trying to hammer a passageway to the open sea.

Middlebury President to Speak at Convocation Saturday
By DELIA JOHNSON
President Olin Robison of Middlebury College, a former Rhodes scholar, will speak at the Fall Convocation ceremony, to be held
this Saturday at 11 a.m. Robison has been active in government service and higher education for many years. From 1966
to 1968, Robison worked for the Department of State as the Secretary of State for Political Affairs. Robison also worked
with the Peace Corps and was the past chairman of the Department of U.S. Commission on Public Diplomacy. He was
one of the college presidents involved in the consortium in Moscow which laid the plans for the exchange of Soviet
and American college students. In fact, Davidson’s two Soviet students met Robison when they went through orientation at Middlebury College.

Convocation will be less elaborate than Convocation of last year and the year before, which were dramatic due to the
Sesquicentennial, according to Assistant to the President Sally Robinson. This year there will be no honorary degree recipients, but two
faculty members will receive awards as well as five students. Chairman and Professor of Mathematics J.B. Stroud, Professor of History
Mal- Mathemati Besjenin will receive awards. The students receiving awards are sophomores Lindsey Hite and Chris Kelly representing the Philanthropic
Society, and junior Parks Small and sophomore Chris Cooper representing the Eumenean Society.

Convocation is only one of many campus-wide activities scheduled this Parents’ Weekend. Friday afternoon from 3:30-5:00 p.m. there will be
discussion groups on the topics of Davidson athletics, international education, strengthening the junior and senior year at Davidson, and the
future of the sciences at Davidson. From 5:00-7:00 p.m. on Friday there will be departmental hospitality hours. On Saturday there
will be interest groups from 9:30-11:00 a.m. on issues such as career plans, service, the new calendar, and residence life.
Following Convocation, there will be a picnic lunch. Saturday afternoon includes a tennis exhibition match at 2:00 p.m., an inter-squad
Wildcat baseball game at 2:30, and a Wildcat basketball scrimmage game at 3:00 p.m. On both Friday and Saturday nights,
the play "1918" by Horton Foote will be presented at 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall, and the Davidson Jazz Ensemble
will perform at 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. Sunday morning consists of worship services in the Davidson Churches and
brunch in the Vail Commons. Sunday afternoon, Davidson’s soccer team hosts Wake Forest at 1:00 p.m.

Friday and Saturday Night Parents' Weekend Dinner Specials
A Little Bit of Italy $6.50
Baked Lasagna
Jumbo Stuffed Shells
Manicotti
Served with salad and garlic bread.

Smothered Chicken $6.95
Boneless Breast of Chicken Covered with Sautéed Mushrooms, Simmered in Wine Sauce, and Topped with Melted Provolone.
