Monday, December 5, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Davidson football players reacted strongly to Tuesday’s announcement that the football team could be dropped to Division III. Every player contacted remarked that a school that prides itself on honor and integrity has broken its word of honor. When head coach Vic Gatto came to Davidson, he was given five years to turn the football program around, and last spring the trustees reaffirmed this decision to give the team through the 1989 season. The players believe that the board has gone against its word.

A large number of players will transfer at the semester or at the end of the year. Captain-elect Kenny Nazemetz said that as many as 80% of the team will transfer. Many of the players are transferring in order to play football, although some will leave just out of anger and will not play football at another school. Nazemetz says that the Colonial League schools, Ivy League schools, and some Division I schools are looking at the players that might leave. Davidson has agreed to sign waivers for all the players so that they will not have to sit out a year if they do transfer.

Because of the transfers, many players will be losing contact with their friends. This is going to be especially hard on those players who have been at Davidson awhile and have fought through the hard times in order to become a competitive team. Nazemetz also believes that Davidson is going to have a problem with the number of minority students. The football team has a large number of minority students who are going to transfer, he says. Without these students, Davidson is going to lose a large part of the diversity in the student body.

Many players do not agree that the decision was based on financial reasons. They think that if they had won three games this year, this situation would not have occurred. A final complaint is about the timing of the decision. The press conference was only two weeks from the end of the semester and the start of final exams. It may be hard for the players to concentrate on their studies with all the turmoil that they are facing. It has been suggested that the players be allowed to take their exams over Christmas break because of all the distractions, but there has been no official word on this.

“For the people who would not want to hear the news, there’s no good timing,” said athletic director Christopher B. “Kit” Morris. “A decision needed to be reached as soon as possible. There are two or three things that go into that. Today [Thursday] is the first day that Division I recruiters can go into homes of prospective athletes. The second is that in terms of trying to put together a schedule for next year, every extra day is to your advantage. Also, if you’re affecting these guys’ future, you need to let them know as soon as possible that a change is coming.”

Although his fraternity contains a large number of football players, Phi Delta Theta Vice-President Tom Crystal says that the fraternity will have enough people to stay open. He predicts that about 30 of the 62 brothers will leave but that about 15 freshmen will pledge Phi Delt. He says that the fraternity may have to work harder next year in rushing, but that Phi Delt is on solid ground.

FOOTBALL, from page 1

Many players have threatened to transfer from Davidson if the change goes through. “I don’t think there’s much doubt about that,” says Gatto. It is not mostly freshmen or sophomores who are seriously contemplating a change, he says. “It’s mostly everybody. Certainly everybody is exploring their options.” The opportunities for players to transfer to other schools is good, he says. “We are ball budget, the dropto Division III may keep Davidson in compliance with Title IX, a federal regulation aimed at financial equality in institutions’ support for male and female athletics. Morris is currently involved in an inquiry into whether or not Davidson is in compliance with the act. “The Title IX debate will be a little more timely after we finish our study,” he says. Savings could come from the reduced travel budgets that a Southeastern schedule would need. The drop to Division III would force the football team to leave the Colonial League, which required frequent airplane trips to away games in Northern locales.

“I presume, being besieged by college coaches. One of the kids has been offered a full ride at Division II: Duke.” Every Ivy League and Colonial League school has gotten in touch with players, Gatto says. “There is not a clear perception of how tight the market for student-athletes is,” he says. “Among the Ivy League and the Colonial League, we have almost the best young talent that can get into any of those schools.”

Morris is optimistic about the current recruiting season. “We’re going to have to restructure it according to what the standards are in Division III football from a coaching staff perspective, and from an admissions staff perspective,” he said. Gatto was not as cheery. “There is no recruiting for next season. The coaches were on the road recruiting when this happened; we don’t know who we’re recruiting now.”

The major reason cited for the change at the press conference was financial. “We have talked with 12 or 13 Division III schools in the Southeast, and have looked at their budgets and talked with them about the structure of their programs. We sense that there will be considerable savings and this is the group of institutions in which we should seek to be competitive,” says Morris. The resulting savings would be reallocated throughout the athletic department, he said. The overall size of the department’s budget would remain unchanged. Specific savings and the amount saved were left unclear. “Right now I think that anything we talk about in advance of the trustees’ ultimate action is premature,” said Morris.

In addition to reducing the overall football budget, “it may be hasty, but our affiliation with the Colonial League will end,” said Stroud. “This will leave us with no team in the Colonial League.” However, Morris said that the reception of Colonial League schools to Davidson’s plight has been warm. He said that they have communicated that even if founding member Davidson does not play football or compete in any other sport, they want Davidson as a member. “We are no longer as significant, but are remembered, and appreciated,” he said.

Davidson has two other scheduling options, the Old Dominion Conference and the College Athletic Conference. “We have friends in both,” says Morris. “We would presume that within a year or two, we’ll have members on our schedule.” Possible kinks in the plan to make a permanent move to Division III involve several current and proposed NCAA rules. “We would never be eligible for the championship in Division III,” says Morris. However, “there seems to be a move in Division III away from national championships and more toward regional championships. So there’s at least the possibility that down the road you would see us in regional championships.”

See MORE FOOTBALL, page 3

Photo by Alex Hayden