8 Player profiles

Two more senior leaders

By BILL SMITH

Two seniors, Dean Keener and Mike Gynn, will need to contribute heavily if Davidson’s string of twenty-win seasons is to
continue. Each played important roles last year and more is expected from them this season.

Dean, an Economics major, plays the number two guard and can run the offense when necessary. Last year, playing as
a top reserve, Dean often came into a game and provided the spark Davidson needed to win. Examples of his
contributions from last year include wins against Furman and Western Carolina. His role this year is to complement Derek Rucker
when opposing defenses key on him, to uncork his dangerous perimeter shot, and to be a senior leader on and
off the court.

Starting periodically, Dean mentioned that the transition from reserve to starter demands a different approach in his game. He commented
that last year he could “get a feel for the game” while sitting and provide “more of a spark” coming
off the bench. But when starting, he has “to be ready from the start” and contribute immediately. Whether starting or
playing off the bench, Dean can help the offense with his shooting touch. Being the “basketball junkie” as Coach Hussey
describes him, Dean recognizes that he must improve his defensive pressure by conference play if he is to limit guards
such as Skip Henderson of Marshall—the preseason favorite to the MVP trophy for the conference.

Coming off the bench is 6-8 forward Mike Gynn. Mike, a Political Science major, hopes to be the spark that
could ignite Davidson to several triumphs in this his final year. In last year’s twenty-win season, Mike played in twenty-nine
of the thirty-one games and was a key player in many of the Conference games. Both Mike and Coach Hussey
indicated that his role this year will be to provide more inside scoring and strong rebounding off the boards.

Unfortunately, Mike was injured all preseason with stress fractures in both legs due to his training and practice in the
summer months. Mike says that he has “slowly gotten back into practice” and now is ready and “at 100%.” The
areas Mike listed that he thought needed more work were his back-to-the-basket moves as well as his footwork. Also, he
commented that his rebounding efforts needed to be more consistent as well as aggressive.

Coach Hussey’s remarks were that both Dean and Mike are fine examples of senior leaders. As seniors, they know they
can go out with an overall winning record and Coach Hussey said both of them are playing hard to assure
that record. Their attitudes have been very good, thus they are a great influence to the younger players on the
squad. Dean and Mike say this year’s team chemistry is special and that once all the players “gel” together, Davidson
will be a good basketball team.

©1987 First Union National Bank of North Carolina

By CHRIS HUGHES

All I know about college basketball is tainted by my past. I grew up as a Kentucky fan in the
seventies. One thing I learned was how to deal with the polls. For college basketball, the weekly wire service polls
are often a weak measurement of accomplishment for teams when the true test of the tournament in March is still
far in the distance. You may or may not know how your team will do in the NCAA’s, but you
do know what they are currently ranked. Rankings also serve to alert people to teams they may not have previously
considered. For instance, people in California would know little of Marshall if not for the fact that one magazine chose
them in their top twenty. All of this is good for the game. My complaint with the polls is that
too often aTeam is judged by its most recent and most publicized games. My preface about Kentucky leads me to
this. I can recall the final day of the 1977 season when an undefeated and top-ranked San Francisco team was
playing at Notre Dame. Meanwhile, number two Kentucky was playing Tennessee. I watched as Notre Dame used their home court
advantage to its fullest by beating USF by two. I knew that Kentucky would only have to beat Tennessee to
move up to first. It did not matter that USF hadn’t lost a game before Notre Dame, nor did it
matter that Notre Dame is famous for knocking off premier teams in its Athletic Convocation Center. The fact was that
USF had lost and done it in front of Billy Packer and NBC. That was enough to disqualify them from
being number one.

If you follow college hoops, you may have noticed that Arizona was bumped from #1 this week by Kentucky. In
fact, Arizona was even passed by Pitt on their fall down to third place. All this because they dropped a
two-point game to New Mexico in the “pit” in Albuquerque Saturday night on ESPN. The Wildcats, a team that had
been shooting in the upper 50% range, shot only 38% from the floor in what obviously was an off night.
Potential All-American guard Steve Kerr was 3 of 10 from three-point range where he averages 61%. Thus Arizona fell to
a New Mexico team that could actually be one of the best in the west this year. Before their loss,
Arizona had beaten Syracuse, Michigan, Iowa, and Duke - four top ten teams. Their replacements in the top spots, Kentucky
and Pitt, have beaten a combined three top twenty teams. However, these three wins were all nationally televised.

In fact, national TV can often be a determining factor in the polls. But it is the “what have you
done for me lately” attitude that ultimately cripples the wire service polls as a means of judging teams. Just as
in college football, the basketball polls consider a late-season loss much more incriminating than an early season loss. This helps
out teams such as Louisville and UNLV who play tougher December schedules to prepare for a weak conference slate. On
the other hand, a team in the Big Ten or Big East would tend to be undervalued in the March
rankings due to the rigors of road play in a tough league.

Fortunately, college basketball doesn’t suffer from the lack of a national championship that hinders college football. Therefore, the polls mean
little except for the fans whose bragging rights are at stake. Yet they are the only scale on which to
judge teams until March comes. And the fact of the matter is that the rankings are best used by friends
who debate among themselves, not really to judge who the best teams are.

STRATEGY, from page 7

They’ve lost, lost as many as they’ve won. This kind of performance won’t be sufficient to put Davidson in a
position to win the conference tournament, much less to garner a third 20-win season in a row. Maybe these aren’t
the only two options. If the other coach is stupid, has seen no Davidson films, and knows nothing of Rucker’s
talents, then maybe he will refuse to use a freak defense. But few Division I coaches have this outlook. Any
coach who realizes the situation here will want to stop Rucker first -- they think, “As Rucker goes, so goes
Davidson.” Thus far, they’ve been right most of the time. Let’s hope Coach Hussey and the Cats can prove them
wrong. Until they do, in the words of Whodini, “Freaks are all over them like white on rice.”

After 9 p.m. SPECIAL
Monday - Thursday
12 in. with 3 toppings - $6.50
16 in. with 3 toppings - $7.75
- not including extra cheese -
892-9046
Delivering to Davidson College Free
Mon. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sun. 4:30 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.
