sports The Davidsonian Monday, August 29, 1988

Junior Harry Schiavi, a cornerback, during practice.

Around the Horn
Photo by Jeff Muir

Gatto looks to 1988 football season with “cautious optimism”

By BRUCE NEWSOME

Davidson football coach Vic Gatto opens the 1988 season with cautious optimism. With this year’s freshman class, Gatto has three
full recruiting classes to work with. Another reason for this optimism is an easier schedule than in the past three
years. Gone from last year’s schedule are Princeton, Wingate, Furman, West Virginia Tech, and Catawba. Replacing them are Fordham, Guilford,
Colgate, and East Tennessee State.

Gatto also saw some positives in the ’Cats last two games of the 1987 season. The team only lost to
West Virginia Tech 41-25, and a late Catawba touchdown and only a two-point conversion cost the Cats a second victory
in the 1987 season.

Experience is another positive for Davidson. Many of this year’s juniors and sophomores saw significant action last year. Although they
were often matched against older and bigger players, previous game experience should help as Davidson’s returning starters and lettermen line
up against first-year starters from other schools. As a result of the large number of returning starters, current freshmen will
not be counted on to play significant roles this year as the last two freshman classes have. However, Gatto does
see some freshmen who are ready to play immediately. They are Carrick Pell, a cornerback from Florida who is the
son of former Florida and Clemson coach Charlie Pell, Horace Hamm a wide receiver from Florida, and Calvin Hobbs an
offensive lineman from North Carolina. Gatto also feels that other freshmen such as Ken Joseph will be able to contribute
by mid-season.

However, Gatto also sees some areas of concern for the ’Cats. He is worried about the promising players that are
not back from last year’s squad, the team’s lack of depth, and the emotional level of a team that has
only won two games in the last three seasons. Pre-season injuries and transfers have taken away some of the ’Cats
best players. Knee injuries have ended their seasons before they began for last year’s freshman running back Bryn Robinson and
senior starting cornerback Steve Neff. Both Robinson and Neff tore their knees up in non-contact drills in the spring. Also
gone from last year’s team is quarterback Mark Skoczynski, who transferred.

Depth is also a problem for the ’Cats. Right now Gatto only has 65 relatively healthy players. Consequently, the Cats
cannot sustain many more injuries; otherwise, freshmen will have to play before they are ready.

Finally, Gatto feels the team needs to learn how to win. The team had two close games to end the
season last year, and this year’s squad needs to turn the close games into victories. In order to keep a
positive attitude, Gatto believes the team needs to win one of the first two games against Presbyterian and Lehigh. These
teams are two of the tougher teams on the schedule, so the ’Cats have their work cut out for them.
In order to win one of these two games, the team will need big games from its offensive and defensive
leaders. On offense, the key will be the middle of center Gat Caperton, quarterback Peter Hughes, and tailback Terry Hines.
On defense, tackles Mike Rogers and Kenny Nazemetz, end David Lilly, and linebacker Tony Hubbard will provide leadership.

In general, Gatto feels that this team should do better than his previous teams, but he says 1989 is the
year that Davidson should be set to make its move in the Colonial League.

These are the times that try men’s souls

By HAP BRYANT

“These are the times that try men’s souls”—wrote Thomas Paine during the darker days of the American Revolution. We can
say the same today about the state of Davidson athletics, as our will is tested by many outside factors. What
is the state of Davidson athletics? That question confronts everyone associated with the school, from the two-week-old freshman to the
oldest Davidson alumni. In investigating where Davidson stands as an institution committed to both academics and athletics, it is necessary
to explore the entire spectrum of people who are concerned with athletic issues at the college. “Around the Horn” has
accepted this charge and will do its best to air all views on theSubject, hopefully leaving no voice unheard. First,
logic dictates that we start with the top man at the school, President John Kuykendall, who oversees both the academic
and athletic life of the college. Naturally, he has one of the final words on athletic policy, and he provides
valuable insight into the ongoing changes facing the institution. The second person whose opinion we must consider is Athletic Director
Christopher B. "Kit" Morris. His stance is vitally important because he oversees all athletic programs and reports to the President
and Trustees on athletic matters.

The hierarchy divides here among the coaches of Davidson sports teams. Their views will certainly not be identical, as football
coach Vic Gatto and soccer coach Charlie Slagle must differ on a number of issues facing their programs today. Fourthly,
the players themselves can give us a first-hand view of the state of Davidson athletics. Like their coaches, the athletes
participating in different sports must possess different opinions. After all, a football player must look at the situation quite differently
than does a women’s tennis player. However, we must value everyone’s opinion if we are to get at the heart
of the issues.

In addition, interesting insight also comes from the students of the college, every one of whom, in one way or
another, is connected with the athletic program. All students take pride in victories and regret defeats, and they also must
be considered when investigating opinions on Davidson athletics. Then there are the behind-the-scenes workers, the Trustees, who "objectively" observe the
occurrences at Davidson and ultimately decide policy. Although they are visible on campus only on rare occasions, their opinions are
perhaps the most valuable since they must approve any change in athletic or academic policy at Davidson.

So, we have exposed many facets of the Davidson community who possess opinions on athletic programs. But what issues confront
and mold these opinions in the fall of 1988? First, and perhaps most obvious, is the new independent status for
all sports except football and field hockey. The football program enters its second season in the Colonial League, a Division
I association comprised of mainly northeastern schools. The field hockey program remains in the Big South Conference. Basketball, soccer, tennis,
golf, baseball, cross country, and track—all these sports have no conference affiliation. What does this mean for Davidson as an
institution, for the programs in particular, and for athletes who compete on newly independent teams? Will Alan Hunter be satisfied
playing Campbell University when he could have played Marshall?

A second issue is the new sports complex. Presently, it is an eyesore behind Richardson Field, but it could emerge
as a valuable asset to the basketball program in particular and Davidson athletics in general. Will the enticement of the
new facility compensate for the lack of conference affiliation, especially for the basketball program? Coach Bobby Hussey must certainly have
an opinion on this matter.

Thirdly, the academic vs. athletic dialectic that is constantly occurring at Davidson gives us yet another vital issue. Is there
a disparity between athletes and other students, or do athletes carry their load like everyone else? This is certainly a
large task for a weekly student newspaper column. But "Around the Horn" owes it to the whole Davidson community to
air as many views as possible, and in the process hopefully to better the state of Davidson athletics.

Field Hockey goalkeeper positions. Katherine Mallory, Sharon Patton, and Susan Simil are also back after spending their junior years abroad.
Montgomery should be improved after having played with several teams in Scotland. Other top returnees for Davidson include junior fullback
Marta Bukowski, sophomores Marjorie Havighurst and Gigi Cooke, who led the team in scoring last year with eight goals. If
anything has improved for Davidson in field hockey, it is certainly the recruits who have joined the team.
