2

Charlotte Mayor Sets Goals

What is in the future for the rapidly-expanding city of Charlotte? Sue Myrick, the first female mayor of Charlotte, will discuss the city agenda in an Open Luncheon Wednesday, April 27th in the 900 Room of the College Union. This is the first time Myrick has spoken on Davidson’s campus. Lunch begins at 12:30 p.m. and costs $1.50; the lecture is at 1 p.m. and is free.

Students Sought for Bike-Aid 88

The Overseas Development Network is sponsoring a bike ride across America to raise support for “grassroots solutions to global poverty.” Riders will begin June 14 from five Western and Southern cities and all end in Washington, D.C. on August 18. Accommodation is provided in churches, community centers, and in private homes. Funds are used for self-help projects in Third World countries and the United States and to finance fellowship service programs for college students. For more information, write as soon as possible to Bike-Aid '88, P.O. Box 2306, Dept. B, Stanford, CA 94309, or call (415) 723-0802.

Novelist to Read and Present Awards

Lee Smith, associate professor of English and writer-in-residence at North Carolina State University, will present two writing awards and read from a selection of her own works on Thursday, April 21. Smith will judge entries for Davidson’s Vereen Bell award in fiction and poetry and the Charles Lloyd award for non-fiction. Smith is the author of six novels and several short stories. Her most recent novels are “Oral History” in 1983 and “Family Linen” in 1985. Smith is the winner of the North Carolina Award for Literature in 1984. The presentation of awards begins at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. This event is sponsored by the English Department and the College Union Literary Arts Committee.

College Chorus and String Ensemble to Perform

The Davidson College Chorus and String Ensemble will present a concert Wednesday, April 27th at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The program includes the Schubert Mass in G. It begins at 8:15 p.m. and admission is free.

April 22 Convocation Awards Students and Faculty

The annual Spring Awards Convocation will be held Friday, April 22 in Love Auditorium at 10:30 a.m. The ceremony will feature as keynote speaker James B. McMillan, a U.S. district court judge. Academic, athletic, and service awards will be presented to students; Omicron Delta Kappa selections will be announced as well as the recipient of the faculty teaching award.

Monday, April 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Does altruism exist at Davidson College?

Service Task Force members speak out at open luncheon

By MARGARET CARROLL

At an Open Luncheon Wednesday, April 13, Associate Professor of Psychology Cole Barton spoke on altruism and its relationship to service at Davidson.

He began by discussing the psychological factors which lead to service. According to Barton, psychologists have analyzed altruistic people in an effort to discover a “helper” type personality, which they found does not exist.

Then they turned to religious people, trying to find a link between religion and service.

The clinical psychologists discovered, however, that people who were attracted to religion for security and self-fulfillment were not usually attracted to service.

But, those who found religion useful in organizing a culture and its moral and behavioral laws were more interested in helping others. Those who empathized with the needs of others were also likely to serve.

Barton pointed out a major obstacle to altruistic service: helping others incurs a cost that will not likely bring a reward. He named four criteria necessary to service.

First, one must notice that someone needs help, then one must determine if the situation is an emergency. Next, one must assume the responsibility of helping, and lastly one must know what to do in that situation. Barton questioned whether the Davidson community notices needs in its own environment and whether it has the resources available to meet those needs. Associate Professor of Economics Clark Ross, chairman of the Service Task Force, also contributed to the discussion. He explained that the service task force at Davidson is trying to discover ways to get students involved with service without forcing them to do projects. He feels that instituting a service requirement would remove its altruistic nature.

The task force, Ross said, is not trying to initiate service involvement, but rather to expand it and to increase its visibility, hoping that students will want to increase their own service responsibilities when they see professors and other students more involved.

Other states with large numbers of acceptances included Virginia with 56, South Carolina with 53, and Florida with 42.

This year the number of early decision acceptances increased as well, rising from 70 in 1987 to 110.

Submit to Inside Art (Call -6722)

Downtown Davidson

MON.-THURS. 9-5 FRIDAY 9-6