Williams speaks out on tenure, p. 4

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXVIII, Number 13

Farewell, Sesquicentennial! Sophomore Andy Cooke puts the finishing touches on the preparations for the closing convocation of Davidson’s 150th year.
See story, page 2.
Photo by Bill Giduz

Faculty calls for college to divest

For the second time in two years, professors urge sale of all investments in South Africa

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, February 3, 1988

Freshmen select

Women’s houses achieve parity; fraternities find selves with smaller pledge classes

By SUSAN PEARSALL

“Ecstatic and thrilled” is how Patterson Court Council president Ginger Broaddus described herself following last Thursday’s Patterson Court self-selection process.
Perhaps the most pleased with the results of self-selection were the women’s eating houses, Warner Hall, Rusk, and Spencer, each
receiving thirty-nine new members. The parity is welcome after last year’s lopsided results caused Rusk’s and Spencer’s waiting lists to
swell tremendously.

The only complaints about self-selection ’88 which might possibly arise would come from the fraternities which, with the exception of
newly-resurrected Kappa Sigma, have smaller than average pledge classes.

At least partially to blame for the seeming scarcity of freshmen males on the Court this year is the new
grade regulation approved by the Patterson Court Council; any freshman wanting to join any Patterson Court House must have a
minimum 2.0 GPA before he will be admitted to the membership. As a result, forty freshmen are currently ineligible to
join a house.

According to Dean of Students Will Terry,

See SELF-SELECTION, p.3

New phone system here July 4

Phone service will no longer be optional; system will offer 4-digit intra-campus dialing

Davidson College has signed a contract with Southern Bell for an ESSX (sm) telephone system that will be installed over
the July 4 holiday. The new system will provide phone service for faculty and staff offices as well as for
students living in college dormitories.

Under the new system, all dorm rooms will be permanently wired for ESSX (sm). Students will be billed for telephone
service by the college rather than Southern Bell.

According to Bob Stephenson, Director of Personnel and Administrative Services, charges for basic service will be included in the student’s
comprehensive fee. Any long-distance calls will be billed to students by the college each month. Students will have private long-distance
authorization codes to prevent use of their phone for this purpose by others.

Stephenson also explained that state regulations prevent the college from giving students optional phone service.

“If we gave them [the students] the option to sign or not we would have been categorized as

See PHONES, p.3

By KEVIN DUNN

The faculty of Davidson College passed a resolution Tuesday calling for the Board of Trustees to divest college holdings in
companies doing business in South Africa.

In this most recent resolution, the faculty encourage “complete divestment.” In addition, the resolution calls for the Trustees to:

- “Encourage corporations currently in Sullivan Category II (‘making progress’) to take such actions necessary to be rated in Category
I (‘making good progress’) or be subject to divestment;”
- Inform the Faculty of “progress which has been made in the implementation of its policy.”
- Encourage the college administration to provide “scholarship aid for black South African students” and to support “other educational initiatives
in South Africa.”

One source stated that the resolution passed by a vote of 57 to 15, but official verification is not possible
at this time.

Lou Ortmayer, one of the authors of the resolution, stated that the vote was much stronger than last year. Last
year’s resolution, passed on September 16, 1986, called for immediate divestment. The new resolution, Ortmayer stresses, sets up no timetable.

Critics of divestment have charged that by cutting ties with corporations that do business in South Africa, Davidson loses its
leverage in influencing their actions. They encourage active participation as stockholders in these companies instead of divestment.

When asked to speculate on Trustee reaction, Ortmayer was skeptical about the possibility of divestment. Ortmayer said that he would
prefer that the college not divest. He said that he would rather encourage corporations in South Africa to act for
change, even going to the extent of staging civil disobedience.

See DIVEST, p.3

Professor of Religion David Kaylor, a sponsor of the faculty resolution.

News:
Davidson’s $20 million bond issue sells out the first day it’s offered. Page 5

Features:
Charlotte movie review: Broadcast News. Page 8

Sports:
Furman boots Wildcats out of Southern Conference lead. Page 8

Opinions:
Tons o’ opinions this week. Pick a topic, any topic... Pages 11-15
