Wednesday, February 3, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN 13

Greta: Socrates questions a student's opinion of scholarship

Dr. Peter Krentz

I went down to Johnston Gym yesterday to watch the Cats of the 80s. I thought our Red team was
a fine one and the White team no less outstanding. After the game ended, I started back toward Chambers. Just
then Greta caught up with me.

“I’m unhappy, Socrates,” she said. “Today I went to see my professor; her door was open and her light was
on, but no professor was in sight.”

“That’s unfortunate,” I replied.

“I came to Davidson to hear stimulating lectures, from professors who are available to talk after class,” she continued. “Instead
Davidson is building an accomplished, cloistered faculty. No professor’s scholarship has ever benefited my education.”

“Well now,” I said. “If you wanted to learn how to make shoes, would you visit a friendly Boy Scout
who stitches moccasins or an experienced shoemaker whom Consumer Reports rated favorably?”

“An experienced shoemaker,” she stated. “How else would I know whether he knew what he was talking about?”

“What if you wanted to learn how to spike a volleyball,” I said. “Would you go to an enthusiastic political
scientist who spends hours and hours seeking cartoons for his door or to a professional volleyball coach who reads Volleyball
magazine to learn the latest drills and tests her skills in volleyball tournaments against her peers?”

“To the professional coach, naturally. But if I wanted to be entertained, I'd go to the political scientist, for his
spike is more amusing than any cartoon on his door!”

“So if you wanted to learn how to do history or mathematics,” I said, “wouldn’t you want to study with
professionals whose work is published and judged by their peers?”

“Certainly, now that you put it that way,” said Greta. “How else could I be certain of my teachers’ competence
as historians and mathematicians? But sometimes the best scholars can’t talk to undergraduates or aren’t interested in talking to undergraduates.
Then all their knowledge and skill doesn’t do me any good.”

“You're quite correct,” I said. “Isn’t that why Davidson demands excellence in teaching and superior scholarship from its professors? Davidson
looks for faculty who have demonstrated the quality of mind to be outstanding scholars, but who prefer to combine teaching
and scholarship. Standards must be high, for tenure amounts to a lifetime commitment. The college must decide—after seeing only six
years of a professor’s work—whether it wants to employ that teacher for another thirty years or so.”

“I wish students could be involved with professors’ research and writing,” Greta said. “Exchange of ideas could go both ways.”

“Such cooperation is often difficult,” I said, “for undergraduates usually lack the background necessary to do publishable work. But are
you sure it doesn’t occur at Davidson? I noticed that 1987 graduate Christopher Sullivan wrote an article jointly with a
history professor (‘The Date of Phormion’s First Expedition to Akarnania,’ Historia 36 [1987] 241-43). Surely this example isn’t unique?”

“No, perhaps not,” Greta conceded. “But when I tried to see my professor today, the door was open and the
light was on and the office was empty.”

“Have you thought of making an appointment?”

Dr. Peter Krentz is an Associate Professor of History.

Patterson Court offers a particular way of knowing oneself

Ginger Broaddus

I am a verbose senior English major from Richmond, Virginia, who has never once in her life played charades. I
also have the occasionally dubious distinction of serving as president of both an eating house and of the Patterson Court
Council. The second position dictates that I serve as non-voting chairperson of the Patterson Court Alcohol Policy Enforcement Council, a
committee which has come under a certain degree of fire lately. Let me state from the outset that these opinions
are solely my own. They do not represent my eating house, the Patterson Court Council, or the Enforcement Council. But
they do represent my “vision,” which I’ve focused in the four years I’ve spent at Davidson.

Before I talk about something so seemingly lofty as vision, however, I need to very briefly treat a question raised
in a commentary last week. The author wondered why his fraternity was charged with a violation of the Patterson Court
Alcohol Policy. The suspected violation which was reported involved two houses; according to the policy, suspected violations result in formal
charges. It is then left to the Enforcement Council to determine whether or not a violation has occurred, based on
testimony provided by the house(s) charged. The policy includes no provisions whatsoever for situations which arise at co-sponsored parties. Such
a provision is apparently essential, however, since so many parties on Patterson Court involve more than one house, and such
a clause should be added immediately. As to the citing of a “precedent” which “decided only the monitoring party was
guilty of a violation in such an incident and not the fraternity or eating house hosting the party,” I can
only assure you that there are no precedents in the handling of alcohol policy violations. Rather, the Enforcement Council’s central
purpose is to thoroughly evaluate each case individually. It would be presumptuous, therefore, to expect that each decision made by
the Council should be based on past cases. Situations and circumstances are variant, and each deserves special consideration. Further, the
composition of the Enforcement Council itself changes throughout the year, since it is composed of social chairmen from each house
on the Court, who change office frequently.

There’s lots more I could say on this particular subject, including discussing the “previous case,” talking about formal charges, and
discussing the Alcohol Policy itself. That’s not the nature of this commentary, however, and I think it’s sufficient to say
that the Enforcement Council evaluates all evidence in all suspected violations very carefully and makes the decision of whether or
not a house is guilty as charged accordingly. This seems to be the most fair, impartial, and honest way of
treating such situations, and I don’t think that fair, impartially honest things waste anyone’s time and efforts.

But as I've said, answering questions is not my purpose here. This is my first commentary in four years, it'll
probably be my last, and I’ve got something which I think is far more important to discuss. Patterson Court is
a wonderfully valuable part of Davidson College. That’s something I can say withUtter confidence, and I can give you some
clear, solid reasons. No student comes to Davidson because he or she wants to be a KA or a Rusk
member or a PAX member or an anything else member at Davidson. We are here, all of us, because we
wanted to be members of the Davidson community. Some of us, once we got here, decided to investigate particular aspects
of that community, and some of us have chosen to make those aspects a part of our lives. Those of
us who’ve made such a decision are lucky, but then, any student here is essentially “lucky.” Let me qualify that.
Davidson College offers so very many advantages. Opportunities to serve one another and to serve the community stem from a
more magnificent opportunity to discover ourselves. In every facet of the college, the chance to find out who we are
and what we’re about abounds through academics, various activities, and most of all, through our relationships with people. Now a
fraternity or an eating house on Patterson Court offers a particular way of knowing oneself. Such houses give an individual
a chance to grow with support and understanding in a unique environment. Because if and when you affiliate with a
house, whether it be single-sex or co-ed, you are then a part of that house, as well as a part
of the entire Court system. But you do not, in any way, shape, or form, relinquish your Davidson element. That’s
why most Court parties are open—to everyone who shares that Davidson element. That’s also why members of houses hold positions
in the Union, on student publications, with the YSSC, and with the Student Government Association. That’s why what can only
be classified as a Davidson bash was thrown last fall and was sponsored mutually by all houses on the Court
as well as by the College Union. We, each and every one of us, work together as students, peers, and
most of all, as friends, to make Davidson the best environment that more than 1,300 of us can envision. As
to the aforementioned bashes, which have somehow become the only element of life on Patterson Court that people discuss: I
can say, with even more confidence and conviction, that such a statement is terribly sad, because each house has a
three-fold purpose. They exist to provide their members with eating, social, and service opportunities. Certainly, social aspects are important—none of
us would deny that. We’re social creatures, after all. But the “other side” of life on the Court, the side
that’s arguably far more important, must not be forgotten in discussions of the merits, or drawbacks, of affiliating with a
house. Members of eating houses learn during their years at those houses, and I’d say they learn a lot from
sharing meals together, or sharing talks together, or studying together at those houses. They learn things like respect and acceptance
of diversity. They learn things like understanding and how to foster friendships. They learn that if eighty people think and
unite and decide to throw a party for children stricken with muscular dystrophy, then those eighty people will come away
stronger, and healthier and wiser. They learn that if they envision helping tubercular children in Peru, they can realize that
vision by uniting with other houses, organizing a benefit, inviting the campus to come, and ultimately being able to send
over $700 to aid those Peruvian children—enough money to cure 11 of them. Occasionally, people accuse houses of doing good
deeds simply to gain attention, or because it “looks good” and garners the administration’s respect. Such accusations are unfounded. On
the contrary, Patterson Court houses provide their members with the opportunity to get involved with service projects, and that opportunity
is unthreatening and fun. There’s an old saying (yes, it is a cliché) that you can lead a horse to
water but you can’t make him (or her) drink. I can apply that to service projects on the Court: You
can lead people to water, and once they’re there, they can’t avoid loving what they’re drinking. They will leave feeling
something which wasn’t there before: they will have learned, once again, because their house has provided them with the chance
to realize that doing something for somebody else is the best way to feel wonderful. And I can assure you
that the reason each house continues to sponsor service projects has something to do with public relations, but nothing to
do with trying to “look good.” We have learned through each and every experience with “good deeds” that there are
people around us who are not as blessed. We have also learned that sharing our own blessings—our time, our knowledge,
our interest, our respect, and our concern—is perhaps the most valuable sharing of all. I’ve said that chances to discover
ourselves abound at Davidson, and I truly believe they do. I think those chances are inherent in everything we do
as part of the community here. I do not think such opportunities are limited to members of Patterson Court houses
or to those who are not affiliated with the Court. Rather, I think it’s a chance we all share in
common. I also think that we share in common the responsibility of bettering what we have here, and I think
we generally handle that responsibility fairly well. I think that anytime anyone questions something which seems detrimental to our community,
that person’s on the right track. It may initially seem ridiculous to spend so much time discussing something like Patterson
Court, its composition, or its alcohol policy. I think such discussions are vital, because they show that at least we’re
thinking, we’re questioning, we’re wondering. Acting on our thoughts is even more vital, and I think that we as students
do that sort of action, often. For me, Patterson Court has been a large part of four years. But I’ve
never once thought that I'd remember Davidson as four years spent at my eating house or at court parties. Instead,
I’ve always known that I'd remember Davidson for its people, who comprise a pretty fantastic community. I wouldn’t trade any
of my experiences here, on the Court or off. I simply would wish that everyone here, on the Court or
off, realizes how fortunate we are because of those chances to grow, to learn, and to share.

Ginger Broaddus is a senior English major from Richmond, Virginia.
