Features The Davidsonian Friday, October 7, 1988

Area Restaurants

Homecoming is a traditional time to go out to eat for both students and alumni, and the booming development around
Lake Norman has given Davidsonians an opportunity to eat anywhere up and down the scale of formality.

Lizzie’s at the Lake

Let’s suppose that you're a party of four, and it’s Homecoming, and you want to go out to dinner. Someone
wants chicken, someone else wants seafood, and someone wants beef. Before you throw your hands up in the air and
mutter something about McDonald’s, consider the Lotus Restaurant in Mooresville as a possible answer to your problems. Not only does
the Lotus serve a variety of entrees, but they are prepared to suit your style. Meals range from Mandarin, Szechuan,
and Hunan to Cantonese type dishes and may be flavored from hot and spicy to mild. A cup of egg
drop soup (personally recommended by Sarah Roberts), or a Pu Pu platter will stimulate even the most unhealthy appetite. Aside
from the pleasant dining atmosphere and good service, another Lotus attraction lies in a reasonable price list. Dinners range from
$6.95 to $9.95, and just in case you’re running short on cash, they will even accept your personal checks! Finally,
for those students previously unacquainted with this dining establishment, the Lotus’s location is easily accessible from campus. Simply head towards
Mooresville on Hwy 115. Once you enter town, take a left at the third stoplight, McLelland Ave. Follow this road
for approximately two miles until it forks (you will be right beside the Burger King), veer to the left and
the Lotus is on the right side of the road several hundred yards past the fork. You can’t miss it.

Step out of small-town North Carolina and step into Lizzie’s. Nestled in the small town of Cornelius is one of
the classiest restaurants in the state (or in any state, for that matter). The atmosphere is elegant, yet personable. Black
and white movie posters and photographs line the walls, and ceiling fans hang above. The decor is done mainly in
mauve. Each table is set with all the necessary utensils (remember, the small fork on the outside is the salad
fork), and of course, each has its own candle. Live entertainment, usually a singer accompanied by piano, plays in the
background. Feel free to make requests and indulge in a little slow dancing on their wooden dance floor. The food
at Lizzie’s is excellent, as well as reasonable. Entrees include several seafood, beef, chicken, pork, and linguine selections. Prices range
from $9.95 to $13.95, which includes a vegetable (on the night reviewed, it was broccoli with marinara sauce) and rice.
Salad or soup are offered separately ($2.95-$3.95). A dinner for two of escargot, Caesar salad, Lizzie’s salad, Veal Oscar, coconut
shrimp, double chocolate torte cake, carrot cake, and coffee came to $46 + tip. Lizzie’s is the place to wine
and dine, dance and romance. Depending on how much “wining” you’re interested in, there is a full bar on one
side of the dining room. Reservations are strongly recommended on weekends, so plan in advance. “If you don’t take me
to Lizzie’s, somebody else will,” reads the phrase printed on matchbook covers and check stubs. We hope someone does, for
the entire experience is well worth the money.

Empress of China

Just minutes from campus, the Empress of China offers a popular oriental menu featuring Cantonese, Mandarin, Hunan, and Szechuan foods.
The cozy two-room dining area is traditionally furnished, complete with gilded arches and decorated shades. Strangely enough, the piped-in music
is not oriental but of the “elevator music” variety. Dress is casual, but one would not feel out of place
in “Homecoming attire.” The atmosphere is quaint enough for two, yet open enough for larger groups. The menu consists of
soups (about $1.25), appetizers (from $1.25 to $4.75), and a large variety of dinners (prices ranging from $6.75 to $9.95).
A dinner for two, including soup, egg rolls, wine, and two main courses, was about $25 + tip. For the
discriminating palate, Empress of China also offers vegetarian dishes and American dinners.

MORE REVIEWS APPEAR ON PAGE 4is served to those of age (I.D. will be checked). Portions are large, so be
prepared to eat. Overall, the food is tasty and plentiful, although it could have been hotter. Both lunch and dinner
are served. In terms of service, waiters and waitresses abound—you may find yourself constantly bombarded with the question, “Is everything
alright?” Although very prompt, they are not overly polite. In fact, if you wish to take home leftovers, you have
to box it yourself. Nicely dressed people may find this a problem. Empress of China is running a Homecoming special
for Davidson students next weekend. For every dinner ordered, a complimentary glass of white wine will be served to those
of age. They do ask that you make reservations (892-9856). Empress accepts VISA, Mastercard, American Express, and Diners Club. They
prefer not to take checks, but they will if absolutely necessary and you present your Davidson I.D. All in all,
two thumbs up.

Norman’s
Yes, it’s a hotel/motel, but the Holiday Inn in Cornelius also offers Norman’s Restaurant which you should consider when making
Homecoming plans this year. If you'll be getting dressed up and want to eat a lot of good food for
a reasonable price, this could be the place. Although there are several entrees on the menu, the best bet (and
best value) is the prime rib buffet, only $13.95. For this one price you get cheese and crackers, hot rolls
and butter, salad bar, cold shrimp and clams, a chicken entree, a seafood entree, several vegetables including baked potatoes, and
at least three desserts. While the exact selection varies somewhat from day to day, there is always a wide variety
and a lot of it. It’s all-you-can-eat, so tell your date to plan ahead and not eat anything all day
before going in order to get more than your money’s worth!

The atmosphere in the dining room is semi-formal, which is to say anything in the range of “Homecoming attire” would
be appropriate. It’s quiet enough to carry on an intimate conversation with your date, yet the buffet style relieves you
of the responsibility of remembering which course goes with which fork. As far as bars, the Holiday Inn has its
own version, Pour Norman’s, another hot spot you might wish to check out. About hotel/motel food, Norman’s Restaurant at the
Holiday Inn is really one of the best and most reasonably priced “fine dining” choices near Davidson, and it’s practically
as close as our own backyard.

Beauregard’s
If you're looking for a not-too-expensive, not-too-formal place for dinner this Homecoming weekend, try Beauregard’s in the Lake Shore Market
Place shopping center. Beauregard’s has something of a split personality. If you walk in and sit to your left, in
the dining room, you'll be surrounded by green plants, ceiling fans, and old movie posters. But if you sit to
your right, in the bar, you’ll find yourself in an honest-to-God bar setting: beer signs, big-screen TV, people looking for
some good conversation. Beauregard’s appears to be first and foremost a bar, and a great one at that.

This is not to discredit the restaurant. Entrees include a wide range of “Beau's” sandwiches (hoagie, sub, ham and cheese,
roast beef on kaiser, grilled cheese, club, BLT, and create-your-own), as well as burgers and steaks. There are also stuffed
potatoes as an option, including “Beau’s Super Spud” which is stuffed with green peppers, onions, tomatoes, your choice of meat
or mushrooms, choice of cheese, sour cream, and butter. Prices range from $3.20 to $6.95 ($11-12 for steak). Beau’s also
offers several good appetizers with which to start off a meal or accompany drinks. In addition to curly fries and
buffalo wings, there’s fried zucchini, mushrooms, cheese sticks, onion rings, or even better, a combo of all four.

Be sure to save room for dessert. Choose from cheesecake, pecan pie, or—the waitress’ pick and ours—a chocolate eclair. In
all, Beauregard’s is the perfect median between casual and formal. The dining room is pleasant, good for conversation, while the
bar has real personality. You can order off the menu while seated on either side, so the choice is yours.
For good service, moderate prices, and a “safe” menu, choose Beauregard’s.
