Friday, September 30, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Born in the U.S.S.R.: Soviet students contrast Davidson

BY NUSRAT KHAN

Sometime late this summer, a rumor breezed through the college that two Soviet students would be coming to Davidson this
fall. As school started, questions were asked with hopeful anticipation. And now, Alexander Konyukh (Sasha) and Vahe Gabrielyan are here.
Sasha has completed three years of mathematics at the university level, while Vahe is an English major from Armenia with
four years of university-level study.

When asked why Vahe went to an English high school, he innocently replied, “Oh! Because it was the nearest one
around.” Sasha’s parents, who are also mathematicians, wanted him to go to a school where the medium of instruction was
English.

How does campus life compare here at Davidson? Sasha felt the dorms at Middlebury College, the school sponsoring the program
where they spent August, were better. Vahe said that life is somewhat difficult because of the lack of public transportation.
Neither have cars and must rely on others when they feel like getting out.

As far as education goes, Vahe felt that in the Soviet Union more emphasis is placed on “classical education,” encompassing
European music, art, and history. Here, students do not seem as well-versed in these subjects. Both Sasha and Vahe were
surprised to see that people went to dinner parties with their own food. They also feel, however, that the southern
hospitality here is very impressive.

In regard to classes here at Davidson, Vahe said that in comparison to their course load of 6-7 subjects a
term, Davidson was “O.K.!” They have found books here very expensive. At their university, there are several copies of each
textbook which can be checked out for a term or more, so students never need to buy books.

Sasha and Vahe have found the need to clarify one misconception, or in this case, misnomer. They are not “Russians,”
but “Soviets.” They say students generally have been hesitant to ask them about their country and government. For example, the
student who asked, “Do you have ice cream in the U.S.S.R.?” revealed a definite lack of international awareness.

Speaking about the social life, Sasha and Vahe questioned the number of parties thrown without occasion. Sasha feels that students
here drink as much as back home. Vahe, however, added, “But back home we drink real drinks, not beer!” According
to Sasha, the girls here are just as friendly as those back in the Soviet Union. In comparison to the
girls he saw up north in New England, the women of Davidson are “better proportioned.”

In their spare time, they sometimes watch television, although Vahe says it irritates him when programs are interrupted by advertisements.
He feels that “a Buick or Ford” ad harms his concentration when watching such American classics as Star Trek. “I
agree that comedy is important, but there is no notion of seriousness, not even in news. Too much money has
spoiled television,” said Vahe.

When asked about censorship on Soviet television and in the news media, Sasha parried by saying that he felt that
American news media was just as biased. He feels that The Observer had no right to call the upcoming U.S./U.S.S.R.
basketball game “ideology against ideology, culture against culture.” Both felt that such comments have no place on a sports page
because sports have no links with political ideologies or culture.

Both Vahe and Sasha are involved in sports on a personal level as well. Vahe plays a little volleyball and
ping-pong, and Sasha channels his sporting energy into soccer and Guirya-lifting, a traditional Russian style of weightlifting. Soviets back home
are also learning baseball from Cubans, and a Japanese firm is constructing a baseball stadium in Moscow.

Sasha and Vahe have met a lot of people here and wish to extend their gratitude to all the students
and faculty who have and are taking care of them. But they add one plea, “We find it difficult to
remember so many names; ‘Robert’ we can remember because there is a Russian equivalent, but don’t expect us to remember
something like ‘Doug and Meredith!’”

---

MONEY; from page 4

which will vary from viewer to viewer. Perhaps the most powerful parts of the movie are the scenes which involve
interaction between Charlie and Martin Sheen. Bud’s relationship with his father is one of respect tempered with conflict. He seems
to have accepted many of his father’s morals and yet he has different ambitions and desires than his father ever
did. Bud seems desperately anxious to make his father proud, and yet his father seems more concerned that Bud be
proud of himself. The fact that Bud is making more money than his father also seems to add to the
problems but more from Bud’s point of view than from Carl’s. I found their interaction to be the most insightful
of any in the film, and the most realistic.

Wall Street has many interesting moral themes which are worked into a business atmosphere that is very believable. In fact,
it may be helpful to know something about the stock market. Douglas’s performance is good even if his character (the
“bad guy”) is a bit overdone. Hannah is pretty and Charlie and Martin Sheen are spectacular. Don’t miss your chance
to see Wall Street.This weekend. It’s showing Friday, September 30 at 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. It’s worth two hours six
minutes, and a lot more than the Union will charge you.

Straight from the seniors: What it’s like
Reported by: JENNIFER BEAN, MARGARET CARROLL, JENNIFER HOFFMAN, and ANJALI SHARMA

The housing situation concerning the new apartments is common knowledge by now, but seniors haven't really had their say. From
lounges to the Holiday Inn, here's a sample of what those living in “temporary housing” said about their living conditions:

Akers Lounge
April Loving: “It’s hard being isolated from all of our friends.”
Elisabeth Schwalbe: “It’s good that we all get along really well because it’s like living in a quadruple. We thought
that we would all have a single, and this is the total opposite extreme.”
Arlene Bach: “We definitely lack privacy. No one takes naps, and we all have to go to bed at the
same time.”
Sheryl Gordon: “When they [the housing office] finally gave us a phone (last week) they accidentally gave us an administrative
number, and for days my parents and boyfriend kept calling the Music Department as a result.”

Schwalbe, Loving, Gordon, and Bach predict that they will move into Apartment A around Thanksgiving although the building is supposed
to be ready at the end of October. The four composed a song to be sung to the tune of
the “Gilligan’s Island” theme song which illustrates their plight:

“No phone, no lights, no motor car,
Not a single luxury,
Like Robinson Crusoe,
As primitive as can be.
So join us here for two months our friends
If you care to walk a mile
To see four stranded senior girls
Here on Akers’ Aisle.”

Derby House
Mibs Raney: “Overall, we’re satisfied with Derby House and wouldn’t mind spending the rest of the year here. We will
probably actually move in right before Christmas.”
Elizabeth Watson: “At least here they gave us what they were supposed to; at least here we have separate rooms.
If the move comes at a bad time academically, they will hopefully let us wait ‘till next semester.”

Henderson House
Jim Sorenson: “This is the only campus locale infested with ants, cockroaches, fleas, ticks, lice, jiggers, and athlete’s fungus! We’ll
probably move in somewhere between 9 and 90 years after the Rapture.”
Will Phillips: “My life is a living hell! We’ll probably move in when John Holmes becomes known as a ‘little
man.’”

The Infirmary
Bruce Nofsinger: “In this roost: we have Seth, Charles, Renier, me, and four chips tight on our shoulders. Speaking to
Tom Jennings, we believe the completion date has finally been included in the contract. Tom said not until Monday, which
didn’t surprise me at all. We are all used to it by now. It seems that more energy is going
into the new gym. Knox and Irwin were built by the same contractor, and the ceiling is already falling down
due to the rain. We may have the worst place now, but at least we move in first. Not having
a phone is a major problem, and people walk in through our room to get to the bathroom.”
Renier Brentjens: “Welcome to our penthouse! This room is a dump, but we have no motivation to clean it. We
do appreciate the nurses downstairs who allow us to stay. They could have thrown us out, you know. It’s not
Tom Jennings’s fault. He has a hard enough job as it is. It is the whole administration. They knew in
advance and should have prepared in advance. We can’t help feeling that the college is lying. First we were told
2-5 days. Then it was 5 weeks, and now it’s 5 and a half. It’s so pathetic, we can only
laugh now.”

Holiday Inn
Larry Ray: “The Holiday Inn is fine; it’s the commuting that’s so bad with no parking on campus. There’s Happy
Hour here every night with free hors d’oeuvres, and Wednesday night is the General Manager’s cocktail party with an open
bar. Also, the pool’s really nice. The housing office has done a wonderful job taking care of us. But we’re
all pissed at Grover Meetze. If he knew in advance that construction would take longer, he should have told us.
Tom Jennings has done a great job of coping with the situation. I hope to move in Monday. This will
be my third move this year already.”
David Petranick: “It’s not too bad here. Actually, we have a pretty good deal. I have to find transportation back
and forth, usually with my roommate, but the maids bring us clean towels every day. I’ve heard rumors that we’ll
get to move in this weekend, which I imagine is right.”
Benji Brown: “It’s a pretty good living situation here. It’s been fun, definitely an experience. We have maid service, big
beds, cable TV with Showtime. The worst thing is getting back and forth. Also, we don’t get many visitors and
get almost no phone calls. The housing office doesn’t have our room numbers listed, and all calls have to go
through the main office. We’re really off campus. The drawers are another problem, standard Holiday Inn size with no room
for all of our clothes. But it’s definitely better than when we were living in the lounge on 1st Belk
West. I’ve heard rumors that we'll get to move in this weekend. I’m not looking forward to the actual move
(my third), or the mud and construction around the apartments.”
