Wednesday, February 3, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Reagan pushes contra aid; Bush and Rather trade fierce words

By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining the news January 21-February 2:

Across the Nation -- President Reagan gave a State of the Union Address to the nation last Monday, calling for bipartisanship in the upcoming year. Reagan urged congressional support for the intermediate nuclear forces treaty and for additional contra aid. The contra aid vote for the Nicaraguan rebel forces is scheduled for February 3 in the House, and for February 4 in the Senate. Reagan is pushing for $32 million in humanitarian aid, as well as $3.6 million in military aid.

Vice President George Bush became involved in a heated argument with CBS News anchor Dan Rather during a Monday night broadcast last week. Bush and Rather argued over the vice president’s role in the Iran/contra affair. Bush said Rather was implying he had lied about his involvement with the arms shipments to the Nicaraguan contra rebels. Public reaction to the argument between Bush and Rather may affect voters’ reactions in the upcoming Iowa caucuses on February 8.

Senator Jesse Helms (R-NC), a bitter opponent of the INF treaty, voiced his reservations about Soviet complicity with the treaty to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Helms claimed to have a classified intelligence report that proved Soviet violations. Helms recently has disagreed with Secretary of State Schultz and Secretary of Defense Carlucci on matters of verification.

Around the World -- The Sandinista government of Nicaragua made major concessions last week, hoping to end the war between the Sandinistas and the contra rebel forces. Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega offered direct negotiations with the contra leadership, monitored by an international body.

Israel witnessed more violent flare-ups as tensions persist in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. The U.S. announced a new initiative to deal with the Palestinian question in those territories, which would consist of Palestinian elections for self-government. In related matters, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak met with Reagan administration officials in Washington last week to discuss Middle East peace prospects, and the recent Palestinian unrest in the Israeli-occupied territories. The U.S. sent envoy Philip Habib to Jordan to discuss its role in the Middle East peace process.

In Haiti, Leslie Manigat was elected president. Manigat has been noted for his intelligence, which many observers thought would make him unappealing to peasants. The Haitian election has been criticized as undemocratic by the U.S., and has been denounced by opposition leaders.

Panamanian Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, accused of organizing cocaine smuggling, will be indicted by a U.S. federal grand jury. Noriega denies the charges.

In the Philippines, local elections proceeded, after fears of violence delayed some balloting. President Aquino hopes the elections will show renewed support for her administration.

After a nine-year break, Egypt and Tunisia restored diplomatic relations.

SELF-SELECTION, from p.1

The rule is meant to “spur freshmen to do better academically. [Grades were] a problem for last year’s freshmen, and even more so the year before.” Terry added, “I just don’t think that freshmen should be wasting their time with Patterson Court activities before they have at least a 2.0.” Broaddus agreed: “The rule is good. Those without a 2.0, with the support and understanding of the houses, will do their very best to achieve that grade.” Students whose grades make them ineligible to join houses need only receive a 2.0 for one term in order to lift the restriction.

Rumors have sifted about that both PAX and Warner Hall had experienced financial difficulties after receiving a relatively small number of new members last year; however, in fact, both houses are in strong financial shape. PAX president Vicky Rogers said that this year’s “wonderful freshmen” bring the house’s total membership up to 65, and adds that the house has a great deal of money in savings.

Broaddus,

DIVEST, from p.1

But Ortmayer pointed out that, “These businesses won’t do that...divestment is the next step.” Ortmayer notes that, for these same reasons, the Rev. Leon Sullivan is now calling for divestment. Sullivan is the author of the investment principles used by most corporations in South Africa. Sullivan recently disavowed these principles, but the College continues to use them, investing in companies which rate in Category III or higher.

Kaylor, another of the resolution’s authors, stated that he was somewhat optimistic that the Trustees may react, considering student and alumni pressure. Kaylor concedes that if Davidson does divest, “it is not likely to make a great deal of difference” for South Africa. Kaylor said such a decision would be a “statement of moral principle” and, coupled with pressure from the world community, may eventually have some impact on apartheid. It was estimated that Davidson’s investment in the 80 corporationsin question were worth $22 million in 1986. The resolution was submitted by faculty members Kaylor, Ort- mayer, Peter Krentz, Charles Ratliff, and Alan Singerman. The resolution will be submitted to the Trustees at their next meeting, which will be held near the end of February.

Frozen Yogurt - Sandwiches To Go - Imported Beer - Wines - Cheeses - Coffees - N.C. Pottery - Gift Baskets
Open for Lunch 7 Days a week
Check Our Daily Specials
128 N. Main St.
704/892-7521

The Wednesday night live entertainment on Feb 10 is Dr. John Engell who will be reading poetry and fiction.

The president of Warner Hall explained that the house actually had “no qualms” last year, due to its money in savings and CDs. She also expressed hope that students will “realize what a crucially valuable part of the campus PAX (as a coed eating house) is.” Phi Delta Theta, however, is still working its way through monetary troubles and is achieving some success, according to treasurer Michael Taibi. Certainly, he said, this year’s Phi-Delt pledge class was limited by the new grade requirement, which excluded “ten to fifteen” potential pledges. “Individually, we lost quite a few due to the grade rule,” said Taibi, who adds that the house is making a few sacrifices in the social budget, but seems to have settled on a plan to work out its debt. He described the house, which added six upperclassmen to a list of ten freshman pledges, as “stable.”

Kappa Sigma was the “big winner” among the fraternities in terms of the number of freshman pledges, adding twenty-nine names to its rolls as a result of self-selection. Pi Kappa Alpha had the next highest total, with twenty-two freshmen joining its ranks. In its first year of existence after a long absence from the campus, Kappa Sigma gained all its pledges through a “dry” rush. Rush Chairman Brian Gatchel attributed the fraternity’s success in pledge-hunting “basically to dry rush. We didn’t hide behind alcohol, and neither did the freshmen. Our rush was much more personal. When you're drunk at a party, you can’t really get to know anyone.”

Gatchel said that the Kappa Sigs really made an effort to become friends with the freshmen, whom they met more often at dinner than at parties. Terry said that, overall, the self-selection system is running very smoothly. He is pleased with the positive results he has seen in the past two freshman classes, which have been kept off the court (and out of rush) for the first weeks of school. Besides an improvement in grades, Terry has seen good signs on the freshman halls, which he calls “more viable now.” He explains, “The freshmen have to look to each other at the first part of the year, and this gives them a better perspective of the Court.”

PHONES, from p.1
a public utility. So, we have to include all students or none.” Because of lower installation fees and use of college WATS lines, Stephenson said student telephone charges should be less under the new system than when students arrange their own service as they currently do. While the college will maintain the wiring inside dormitories and the telephone company will maintain it between buildings, Stephenson said students will be responsible for supplying their own telephone sets. Dormitories will be wired sometime in August. Telephone numbers will be assigned permanently to student rooms rather than to individuals. So, students will know their telephone numbers as soon as they know their room numbers. They can dial other students or faculty and staff with a four-digit number, and will have to dial “9” to get an outside line. Stephenson also said ESSX (sm) will put the college on the cutting edge of telephone technology. The system may, in the future, be able to handle data transmission so that students could dial up the college mainframe computer with no special wiring.

Consideration of a new system has been underway for several years. According to Stephenson, the ESSX (sm) option was presented to top administrative officers at their Charlotte budget retreat earlier in the month and they approved it. The contract was signed two weeks ago.