2: News Shorts

Let’s talk trash

The Biology Society will be sponsoring a recycling drive during Environmental Week, April 4 to April 11. The Society would like to encourage the entire campus to participate in the drive. Members of the college community should save recyclable materials (aluminum cans, glass bottles, plastic soft drink bottles, and newspapers) all during the week; on April 11 they will be able to bring their trash to the Union patio for collection.

Recycling has been an issue of national importance since before the Second World War, but following the war, American prosperity led to an extremely wasteful attitude. Since those times, recycling has been seen as somewhat unnecessary. As a result of this attitude, Mecklenburg County is now experiencing a trash-disposal crisis. Within five years there will be no more room in the county’s landfills. The county has established a goal of recycling thirty percent of its annual waste, and it is well on its way toward achieving this goal as the result of a county-wide recycling program. Davidson does not participate in the program, but there are people in Davidson working to convince others of the need for involvement.

Besides the reduction of trash flow into landfills, other advantages of recycling include significant energy savings. For example, recycling aluminum saves 95% of the energy needed to produce metal from virgin ore, while recycling plastic soft drink bottles saves 97% of the energy used to produce them. Recycling one ton of paper can save the lives of seventeen trees. Anyone interested in assisting Davidson’s growing recycling program should attend the meetings of the Union Recycling Committee on Wednesdays at 12 o’clock in the 900 Room.

Y-Student Service Corps Coordinators

Davidson Elementary Tutoring: Christy Cook (-6670)
North Meck YMCA: Dan Harris (-7548) and Steve Nuckolls (-6518)
Senior Citizens Program: Reid Chisholm (-6361) and Ameesha Pandya
CROP: Arindam Bhattacharjee (-6462) and Nusrat Ali Khan (-6085)
Current World Issues: Bill Whitfield (-7554)
Davidson Day Care Center: Patricia Fisher (-6178) and Jenny Ingram (-3951)
Big Brothers / Big Sisters: Heather Fitzpatrick (-6269) and Tad Little (-6408)
Florence Crittendon Home: Alice Shuffield (-6169)
Adult Literacy: Reid Chisholm (-6361)
Habitat for Humanity: Tindal Davis (-6734)
Cornelius Elementary Tutoring: Reed Herrero (-6503)

Students interested in working on these programs should call the program coordinators.

Black Student Coalition plans fundraising dinner

The Black Student Coalition will sponsor Family Night—a dinner Tuesday, March 29 at the Black Student Coalition House to raise funds for the April 9 Afro-American cream and lemonade. It begins at 5:30 p.m. and will include entertainment by Kevin Harris, of the Charlotte Contemporary Ensemble, and Davidson College students. Tickets are $4 for adults; $3.50 for students; $12 for a family of four; and $2 for children under 13. Reservation forms are available at the College Union.

Students receive Fulbright Scholarship, Watson Fellowships; Smithsonian Fellowship

Four Davidson seniors are the recent recipients of prestigious national awards to study abroad. Jon Boles, of Tampa, Fla., and newly installed General Secretary of The Davidsonian, received a Fulbright scholarship. The international relations major will conduct research on terrorism at the University of Cologne in West Germany. Gaulden Reed Herrero of Daytona Beach, Fla. was awarded a Watson Fellowship. The Spanish major will study models of Spanish conquest in Latin America and Spain. David Ethridge of Newton, N.C., also received a Watson Fellowship. The economics major will study drought problems in Indonesia, India, and Sudan. Charles Tambiah, a center major from Sri Lanka, has won a Smithsonian fellowship in Wildlife Conservation and Management in Developing Countries.

Peace Walk for Central America to begin in Charlotte

The Carolina Interfaith Task Force on Central America will sponsor one of six pilgrimages to Raleigh Sunday, March 27. The first portion of the walk will begin at UNCC’s student parking lot off Mallard Creek Road at 1 p.m. and will end in Concord. Interested volunteers should contact Kathy Sparrow at 399-2480.

Minister to Lecture March 29 and 30

Reverend Will Campbell, a Southern Baptist minister, will be the guest lecturer for the Davidson College Chapel Committee’s Spring Lecture Series March 29 and 30. The minister is also an author and civil rights activist. The lecture begins each evening at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union.

Brenda Tapia Ordained as Minister

Acting Chaplain Brenda Tapia was ordained a Presbyterian minister in an afternoon service at Davidson Presbyterian Church on Sunday, March 20. The Reverend Isaiah Phinnisee, Moderator of Catawba Presbytery, ordained Tapia. Pastor of DPC Mark Lemax, former Chaplain Charlie Summers, and President John Kuykendall participated in the service. Tapia is a graduate of Howard University in Washington, D.C. and Johnson.C. Smith Seminary at the Interdenominational Theological Center of Atlanta, Georgia. She is a native of Davidson. Tapia remarked on the service: “I was pleased by the diversity of the group that attended the service—it was a rainbow of people—the College and the community came together.”

Friday, March 25, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Festival. The menu consists of fried chicken, potato salad, green beans, rolls, ice cream, and tea.

Patterson Court houses to adopt international students
BY TRIPP HELMS

The number of international students at Davidson College has doubled in the past three years, but the number of international students that join a Patterson Court house has remained six or less each year. For the other 32 international students, this means separation from the social system that includes 70 percent of the student body.

Sophomore International Committee chair Ismat Husain presented two proposals approved unanimously by the Patterson Court Council at their March 8 meeting which he hopes will “create a bridge” between the international students and Patterson Court. Husain, representing the Dean Rusk Program, the Dean of Students Office, and the International Committee, proposed that 1) each Patterson Court House “adopt” two international students, and 2) each house provide a big brother or big sister for the adopted students. The foreign students will be social and not eating members of the houses. Husain asked that the houses keep financial expectations low for the international students, and each house agreed to waive social fees.

The International Advisory Board, which selects roommates for international students, will assign participating students to houses when they arrive at Davidson. Each adopted student will choose whether to continue as a social member of the house during Self-Selection. Husain hopes that through international student interaction on a house level as adopted students and on an individual level as little brothers and little sisters, some of the “apprehension” between American students and the international students will be dissolved.

Homesickness, culture differences, and language barriers encountered by internationals when they come to Davidson often make it difficult to visit the court during the first part of the year when most of the Self-Selection process is taking place, Husain says, so the court is relatively inaccessible to them. The purpose of the proposals, according to Husain, is to increase international awareness on campus and to “make the lives of the international students more comfortable” by integrating them into campus life.

Parties at Davidson are very different from the social activities in the home countries of most internationals, Husain says, because of the emphasis on drinking and this difference “holds some international students back” from going to Patterson Court.

Other International Committee activities include:
- The First Annual International Ball will be held on April 16 at 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room during Spring Frolics Weekend. DJ is Phi Delta Theta senior Jack McCollum.
- International breakfast at 2:00 AM after the ball. It will be open to everyone.
- The Second Annual United Nations Cafe is on March 28 behind Vail Commons. Hawaiian dancers, the Davidson Dance Troupe, and others will perform.
- Around the World in an Evening scheduled soon. Students who have been to Russia and Eastern Europe, Indonesia, Africa, and a Japanese student will speak.

Car windows smashed in thefts over break
By MUADI MUKENGE

Car break-ins, reckless driving, and use of false IDs have been a problem at Davidson College in the past month. Three hatchbacks parked at the Copeland House parking lot had their back windows smashed during spring break. Two Davidson juveniles have been implicated in the case and are waiting for trial at juvenile court. A third adult was also implicated on a felony charge. The police have yet to issue a warrant for his arrest.

The damages were discovered the same day on which they occurred. Davidson College police covered the windows with plastic to prevent rain from getting in the cars. According to Chief Jackie Hughes, director of Public Safety at Davidson College, break-ins are not common: “This is the first time it’s happened.”

Taken from the cars were a 19-inch color television, two portable radios, two sets of speakers, and a small stove. All have been recovered. The cars belonged to students Tom Allen, ’90; Kimberly Crabtree, ’89; and Robert Austell, ’90. Prior to spring break, on February 23, the car of George White, '89, was damaged while parked at Copeland House. A computer which has not been recovered was taken. The juveniles were caught as they were attempting to run from the scene.

See THEFTS, next page.