10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
John Gillikin, Inside Art Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
David Host, Opinions Editor
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Margaret Carroll, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Section Production Editors

Veep

The vice-presidential debate on Wednesday night offered a good night of entertainment, as well as highlighting several areas of discussion
in this campaign. It was ninety minutes of rhetoric by two professional rhetoricians. What they said was less important than
what they did or did not do.

Senator Quayle was widely regarded as the underdog in this contest from the start. It is probably not too biased
a judgment to say that he was an underdog at the end, also, but expectations of him were so low
that in the absence of a major gaffe a sort of moral victory can be claimed by the Republicans. It
is not as though Quayle’s men were afraid of comparisons to other sparkling orators in this campaign. The problem does
not seem to be merely in Quayle’s lack of verbal virtuosity, but rather the machinery behind the mouth. This seems
to be perhaps the most interesting area illuminated by the debate. Why are expectations of Quayle so low, and is
this something we should feel comfortable with? Do we want a man one heartbeat from the Presidency who is not
trusted by his own party and handlers to do the job of running for vice-president? Quayle said that he is
the most investigated politician ever, and indeed, seems to be, at least since Gary Hart, and there has been the
most to investigate here. Why was a man with such glaring shortcomings picked to be on the ticket? Political wisdom
says that by the time the election comes, a vice-presidential pick is of little importance, but with the race as
tight as it is Senator Quayle might go down as the first vice-presidential nominee in recent times to sink his
ticket single-handedly.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Margaret Carroll, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage,
Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks,
Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon
O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce
Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.

Circulation Staff: Holme, give me the list!

Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.

Friday, October 7, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

The Davidsonian

Dear Editors:

I am writing to express my shock at the comments in last week’s Davidsonian (Sept. 30) directed at students Ed
Powell and Richard Jones. In the case of the first, Powell may have been irresponsible in missing his deadline, and
therefore deserving of a reprimand. But is it right to try to humiliate him for his mistake before the entire
Davidson community? The Davidsonian is no place for its staff members to fight out their internal quarrels.

In regards to Jones’ letter, I was amazed at the Editor’s inability to graciously accept (or reject) Jones’ piece of
constructive criticism. Jones' opinion may have been correct or it may have been mistaken, but that question is irrelevant. His
intentions were, by all appearances, to merely encourage the improvement of a newspaper which he believes can be more than
it is. As such, he deserved a proper...Reply either acknowledging or politely refuting his arguments, and placed in a more
prominent section of the paper. Both of these incidents were handled by the editors in a very unprofessional manner. I
find it embarrassing for the Davidson College newspaper to be used as a tool for personal vindictiveness. I also hope
that the staff will view future critical comments not as a personal attack on themselves, but rather as a resource
for the evaluation and improvement of their work.

David Ray

Dear Editor:

I am embarrassed to be a member of The Davidsonian staff. Although I have had problems with past performance, the
last issue surpassed any other in inefficiency and gall. In particular, I am referring to two things—the tardiness of the
paper’s circulation and the personal attacks that were made in its pages. First, it is frustrating to devote your time
on a specific day to do a job, only to find out that your deadline did not mean anything because
the issue came out four days late. It is very hard to make reporters respect deadlines when the paper itself
does not adhere to them.

See BRYANT, page 12

Dear Editor:

After reading the “new and improved” Davidsonian of September 30, I decided to scan the staff box for a dose
of wit. Suddenly, one of “the thousand natural shocks/ That flesh is heir to” rocked my body—I’ll limit the literary
references here in the hope you may keep up—(Shakespeare, Hamlet, III. i. 11. 7-8). Nevertheless, I am over your personal
attack, offering this retort. The September 15 Davidsonian outlined the process for student submissions and stated that all submissions are
edited for rules of grammar. Spelling errors are infractions of grammar. Therefore, publish—

See JONES, page 12

Dear Editor:

Last week I was unable to write my weekly news summary for the Davidsonian. Someone thought it would be humorous
to fabricate a story about the absence of my article and insert this myth into the paper, all unbeknownst to
my editor. I apologize for not contributing to the Davidsonian last week. On Sunday I was in a car accident
that demolished my car and hospitalized one of my passengers. Unable to drive my car and worried about the welfare
of those in the accident, I did not return for classes until two days later. Upon my return, I had
to file accident forms with my insurance company and catch up on my schoolwork, and as a result, was unable
to complete my article by the deadline. This is the sole reason for the absence of my news summary. I
hope this explanation clears up any fallacies that appeared in last week’s paper.

Ed Powell

Alcohol at Davidson

Dear Editor:

Having had the privilege of teaching at Davidson College for many years, I understandably have a very deep interest in
the welfare of every single Davidson student. For this reason, I am compelled to express concern with regards to the
alcohol problem at Davidson College. My great fear is that a considerable number of our outstanding students may fall prey
to the pressure to drink—pressure exerted by our social system, thus endangering their health and academic success. I realize that
no amount of advice given by me will have value. However, the following thought-provoking statement, made by David Thompson, former
N.C. State and N.B.A. star (Charlotte Observer, September 30, 1988), might get the attention of those intelligent Davidson students who
are willing to examine their position on drinking.

“Thompson, 34, said he traces his own problems to alcohol. Beer parties in his early years of college led to
daily drinking—sometimes heavy—by the time he was a junior. But a lot of college kids party, and Thompson wasn’t worried.
He continued to drink during his first year as a pro, and then came his initial encounter with cocaine.”

James Y. Causey (Professor Emeritus of Spanish)

Dear Editor:

It is absolutely necessary that this problem must be addressed. Upon entering the bathroom on the first floor of Watts
Sunday, inhabitants of that hall were greeted with an overwhelming and disgusting smell. Over the weekend, someone had thrown up
all over the bathroom floor. Getting sick is one of the direct consequences of heavy partying. In this particular instance,
it was unfortunate that one person who chose to drink excessively decided to inflict the consequences of those actions on
the rest of us who have to use that bathroom.

See VOMIT, page 12
