10

Inside Art is next scheduled to appear in the January 29, 1988 issue of The Davidsonian. Be sure to get your artsy stuff in on time!

McCARRON from p. 6

How about those Mets? When it came to nut-cuttin’ time in the pennant race, the New Yorkers had their minds on their next autograph session at Waldenbooks. Epic prose from just about the entire starting nine. A couple more hits would have worked better. Seriously, though, one sports book from 1987 that is quite enjoyable is Tim McCarver’s. Oh, Baby, I Love It is McCarver at his charming best.

Sissy of the Year
Jim McMahon of the Bears. Sure, he runs over linebackers like a fullback, but who spends more time on the bench with injuries? Some boxers have a glass jaw, McMahon’s got a glass body. He’s healthy enough to eat burritos and search for “good help” on television, though.

Jerk of the Year
Brian Bosworth of the Seahawks. Ok, Bri, you are kind of original, but how about shutting up and just playing football? First, you won’t play for Seattle, then you are going to retire, then you are playing with the Seahawks, then you are not happy in Seattle playing the sport you love best, then you won’t talk to the press, then you’ll only talk to the Washington Post. Now what? Frankly, I don’t care. The Boz is no longer worth any space because his team is no longer in the playoffs. P.S.--Boz, try to stay out of Bo Jackson’s way, you'll stay healthy longer that way (nice tackle, though).

Throw of the Year
Mike Ditka nailing a fan with his chewing gum. Disgusting, you say? Hogwash. Paying the price of admission does not entitle fans to get abusive. Ditka’s little toss is poetic justice.

Finally, just a little recognition to those who deserve it for the 1987 season. Congrats to: Jimmy Johnson and the Miami Hurricanes, the Florida State Seminoles (one point away from the National Championship), the Minnesota Twins, the New York Giants, Indiana Hoosiers, LA Lakers, Edmonton Oilers, Andre Dawson, Lawrence Taylor, George Bell, Steve Bedrosian, Roger Clemens, Wayne Gretzky, Michael Jordan, and Magic Johnson.

You're smart enough to calculate the size of a Hydrogen atom.

Friday, January 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

First Union loan has a lot of ways to give you credit while pursuing a college degree.

New Banking Power For You.

First Union National Bank of North Carolina
Banking Offices Statewide Member FDIC

DAVIDSON
892-8861

©1987 First Union National Bank of North Carolina