Friday, March 25, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

SCULLY, from p. 10

The hierarchy began to speak out openly against “the institutionalized imperialistic socio-economic system of injustice, exploitation, and oppression in Latin
America” perpetuated by Latin American elites and the U.S. The number of U.S. evangelical churches in Latin America began to
grow considerably. The U.S. government viewed the Latin American Catholic Church as a dangerous force because it was beginning to
call and work for basic economic, political, and social reform, to identify with and fight for the basic human rights
of the poor. The U.S. government's, in this case represented by the C.I.A., and conservative evangelicals’ response was to infuse
large amounts of monetary aid and missionary personnel into an effort to evangelize Latin America. What better way to battle
the socially and politically active Catholic Church than to divide the people and tell them that “if you are Catholic,
you will go to hell?” Plus, an extra political benefit is that evangelicals tend to be against active socio-political involvement.

The U.S.-backed evangelical churches have done their job of dividing the people well. One example of their divisive force is
that, whereas before most Latin communities had but one church—a Catholic Church; now they have numerous evangelical churches. In three
rural Guatemalan villages that I visited, I counted 15, 17, and 19 respectively. (Jimmy Swaggert can even be heard everywhere,
daily, on radios and TVs.) It would appear that division along religious lines played a prominent role in Guatemala’s worst
period of violence, 1979-85. The Guatemalan army made a clear distinction between Catholics and Evangelicals: The Catholics were identified as
subversives, whereas the evangelicals were seen as supporters of the status quo and government. As a result, the government/army (during
that period the two were interchangeable because Guatemala had a military government) killed 16 priests, 3 nuns, and 500 active
lay workers. And how many Evangelicals were killed? Few, if any. The commander of the Guatemalan military in the province
of El Quiche was even quoted as saying, “We do not differentiate between Catholics and Communists.” A common practice of
the military during that most violent phase was to enter into Indian townships, round up the people that were on
their lists as Catholics, and shoot them. A piece of paper that confirmed one was an evangelical literally “saved one’s
skin.” As one might imagine, people began to convert to evangelical churches en masse.

So, why all this wrongdoing, this deceit? Economic interests. The call “to fight communism in Latin America” is being used
to mask the real U.S. motives for maintaining economic and political control over Latin America. U.S. firms in Latin America
have low labor costs, pay few if any taxes, and make large profits, and above all, they would like to
keep it that way. The U.S. is getting rich off of Latin America and the U.S. government sees no reason
to change that. Almost all the profits of the U.S. firms in Latin America end up in the pockets of
rich U.S. and Latin American businessmen. The Latin American businessmen who make lots of money usually have direct contacts in
the U.S. and European financial markets and invest their money there instead of in their own countries. As a result,
Latin American countries are now broke. Therefore, they are unable to build up their own industrial base, maintaining the cycle
of dependence.

Land shortage is also a real problem. Land reform is badly needed, but the owners of huge plantations that grow
commodities like coffee and bananas for the U.S. market, and who for the most part run every aspect of their
countries, are unwilling to relinquish any of their lands. Consequently, poor campesinos are increasingly unable to provide for their children.
There is just not enough land, and therefore not a sufficient amount of food. Revolution is brewing. The U.S. claims
the situation is a result of Russian communist agitators at work. An American priest in Guatemala, who has lived in
a poor Guatemalan Mayan Indian community for twenty-five years now, has a different interpretation: “Many of the men in this
town have only two choices. They can either continue to work in their fields or on the plantations and watch
their children slowly die due to lack of food and monetary funds to pay for their health care, or they
can take up arms and join the guerrillas with the faint hope that by fighting the present U.S.-supported, corrupt government,
a more benevolent government will come to power that will redistribute the land in an equitable fashion. And these poor
campesinos are being called communists. The reason for this, I think, is that the U.S. does not want to accept
reality.”

“The socio-economic struggle in Latin America today is not a battle between the East and West; rather, it is a
North-South battle, between the haves and have-nots. As long as the U.S. does not recognize that, it will continue to
lose out as it did in Nicaragua. The have-nots have empty stomachs and more will to fight than we.”

“Still, the U.S. is trying to use the Central American armies here to fight its war with Russia. It claims
the Russians are behind all the guerrilla movements in the region. Well, I really doubt that. Russians are not needed
to stir the pot of discontent around here. We have enough poverty and injustice as it is. And even if
the Soviets were trying to paint Central America red, it is doubtful that they could succeed considering the domestic and
economic problems that the Soviet government is preoccupied with for the moment. I have even recently heard that the Soviets
are beginning to view Cuba as more of an economic drain than a plus.”

“On the other side, one has to wonder what the U.S. would do in the event of a contra victory
in Nicaragua. Considering the present economic problems of the U.S., do you think the U.S. could really afford to rebuild
Nicaragua’s war-devastated economy? Well, probably, but not without large public expenditures. Is the U.S. taxpayer willing to shell out that
much money to build up another U.S.-modeled Nicaragua? And do you really think the Nicaraguan people would ever accept another
U.S.-controlled government? I doubt it.”

The world is not simply black and white, capitalist or communist, like the Reagan and past American administrations would like
one to believe. It is much more complex.Simplifying the conflict, the U.S. has run into lots of trouble. In the
name of fighting what Reagan has called “the source of all evil”—Russia—the U.S. has in many ways betrayed its self-proclaimed
task of promoting peace, liberty, and justice worldwide. It has either directly or indirectly callously killed, misplaced, widowed, and orphaned
millions of people worldwide. Thus, with good reason, more and more people are beginning to make the connection between the
needless suffering of the poor in Latin America and U.S. intervention in Latin America. The U.S. is living by the
sword in Latin America. The Bible warns that “He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.” And
so it was in Vietnam. As Americans, we have to learn to put our swords of arrogance and ignorance aside
and commit ourselves to searching for and working out peaceful resolutions to conflicts. As Americans, we must exercise our rights
of free speech and protest the tyranny being committed abroad in the name of the U.S. If not, how can
we really profess that we love our brothers and sisters worldwide? For, after all, as Americans, we are at least
partially responsible for our country’s foreign policy, just as people say the Germans were responsible for what Hitler did to
the Jews. Do you want to face your children, or even your grandchildren, in another 10 or 20 years and
not be able to respond when they ask you: “And what did you do to stop the U.S.-sponsored massacre of
hundreds of thousands of Central Americans?” The world does not need any more ideological wars. Look at what the Second
World War and the Cold War brought: death, destruction, and the ability to blow up the whole world. What the
world needs is you and me. It needs everybody to start a revolution of open-mindedness, a revolution of love. We
need to help rather than oppress our brother. If we do not do such things, I am afraid that more
of the human family will needlessly suffer, and when speaking about the human family, that does not exclude Americans. For
if we continue to support U.S. oppression of the poor abroad, one day we will receive our just desserts, and
they will surely not be sweet. We have already had one Vietnam, and neither we nor the rest of the
world can bear any more.

“They [the white man] have tried in every way to destroy us. They tried to use hatred. And genocide. And
slavery. But we survived that. So the only thing they’ve got left to try is love.” (A quote from a
present-day American Indian leader.) And so it has to be. We must learn to love rather than kill our brother.

Tan Scully is a Senior Center Major in International Relations/Latin American Studies from Belmont, Massachusetts. He has just returned from
a term of field study in Guatemala sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program in International Relations.

---

DIVEST, from p. 9

At a minimum, the resolution should encompass all countries whose odious governments treat their citizens as shamefully as does South
Africa. For starters, the list should include Syria, Iraq, Iran, Panama, Nicaragua, Ethiopia, and some other African countries as well.
A more complete list can be obtained from Amnesty International. After getting this far, I began to wonder whether I
was being sarcastic, mean-spirited, and nasty. I decided that I might well be all three, but I am fed up
with people who want to make grand gestures with other people's money, including mine. So now a few final comments
directly to those now seething with righteous indignation. Please, please don’t tell me that the proposed change in investment policy
would be costless unless you are prepared to demonstrate that the current portfolio is suboptimal. Don’t tell me that I
am greedy and looking out only for myself, and don’t call me a racist. I am not questioning your character
or motives, only your selectivity and your likely attempt to impose on others the burden of your crusade. That is,
please don’t try to impose your views on me, especially in such ways as would cost me money.

Joseph G. Louderback

---

Sound

Dear Sir:

I am writing in regard to the sound and light arrangements made for Mr. Stephen Jay Gould, the Wearn lecturer.
The arrangements were woefully inadequate. Most of the lecture was lost to people sitting in the last 12 or so
rows (approximately 200). Obviously, Mr. Gould was not your average podium speaker, but the committee organizing the lecture should have
tried to find out the speaker’s style and make corresponding arrangements. In the future, we should ensure that our best
lecturers are not shadowy, inaudible silhouettes. For the question and answer session, it would be useful to have two people
with microphones move among the audience taking the questions. In this manner, we could get a better sense of what
the speaker is addressing.

Sincerely,
Ranjit Rawlley

---

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to
the following guidelines:
- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly handwritten. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we're partial to them).
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.
- All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
- Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
- The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which
represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following
information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).
