2 Beyond Davidson: National Issues Thursday, September 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NC to host presidential debate; Bush moves up in polls

By ED POWELL

Politics - North Carolina has been chosen as one of the two states to host the presidential debates this fall. The first of the two debates will be at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem on September 25. The second debate will be held on either October 13 or 14 in Los Angeles, California. The two debates, sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates, will last 90 minutes and be conducted by a moderator and three questioners.

Since the G.O.P convention, George Bush has made a steady comeback in the polls, but ran into serious problems this past week. First, volunteer Jerome Brantur was released from the campaign for his role as a character witness in the trial of convicted Nazi death-camp guard John Demjanjuk. On Sunday, Fred Malek, the deputy chairman of the Republican National Committee, resigned amid controversy that he compiled figures in 1971 on the number of Jews in high positions in the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

In 1971 Malek, who was President Nixon’s personnel chief, apparently reported to White House Chief of Staff H.R. (Bob) Haldeman that 13 of the top 35 officials in the Bureau of Labor Statistics were Jewish. This was revealed in a July 27 memo marked “Confidential” from Malek to Haldeman. Soon after this memo, two top Jewish officials in the Bureau were moved to less visible positions within the Bureau. The memo was discovered in the records of President Nixon which were recently made available to the public.

On Monday, George Bush’s campaign received some unexpected support from former National Security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski. Brzezinski, who served under the Democratic Carter administration, declared Democrat nominee Dukakis’ defense policies too weak and outside the Democratic mainstream.

With three of the Supreme Court Justices in their 80’s, it is possible that the next President could radically change the makeup of the Court. Justices Marshall, Blackmun, and Brennan are all over 80, and it is expected that they will retire within the next three years. A G.O.P. victory in November would lead to a decidedly conservative court as these three judges, clearly the most liberal judges of the Court, would be replaced by conservatives. A Dukakis victory would have little or no impact as he would only replace liberal judges with other ones.

News Shorts

International Festival
The International Committee is sponsoring an International Festival on Saturday, September 17 from 11 A.M. to 3 P.M. on the lawn between the Union and the Chemistry building. Greek, Indian, Japanese, British, French, and German food will be catered by the Commons. Entertainment will be provided by a Greek band, Indian singing and dancing, and international folk dancers. Booths will be on display from 17 different countries. A bicycle will be given away in a drawing. T-shirts will be sold to benefit Habitat for Humanity.

Education Department Open House
The Education Department is hosting an open house on September 27 for all Davidson students who are interested in education. There will be refreshments and plenty of information on Davidson’s Education major.

Beyond Davidson: International Issues

Agriculture/Weather
Unexpected snow and dying winds have given weary firefighters relief at Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming. While this is a welcomed break, officials still warn that the fires are not out, and could once again resume their rapid spread through the park. Hurricane Florence pushed into the Gulf Coast of Mississippi last week but caused little damage to any property. The story may be different this week as Florida and the southeastern coast prepare for Hurricane Gilbert which has been gathering force in the Caribbean and may be headed for the Atlantic coastline.

Other
The space shuttle Discovery is targeted to launch later this month, but further complications may delay the launch until October. It has been over two years since the ill-fated Challenger flight.

Polish union ends strike; Air crash under investigationBy CAROL GATEWOOD

Gdansk, Poland: Talks continued this week between the banned trade union, Solidarity, and leaders of the Polish government. Solidarity spokesmen called for the authorities to establish conditions allowing for the legal operation of the repressed union. Lech Walesa, the leader of the workers’ union, played a key role in calling for an end to an 18-day strike.

Karachi, Pakistan: Primary investigations of the air crash that killed president Mohammed Zia ul-Haq and 29 others, including US Ambassador Arnold Raphel, indicated that a bomb may have caused an explosion, forcing the plane to crash. The United States has been aiding the investigation. Pakistanis believe that “external elements” were responsible. In the meantime, several explosions have been reported along the Afghan border with Pakistan.

Seoul, Korea: Preparations came to an end as South Korea welcomes athletes for the XXIV Olympic Games that open on the 17th. 161 countries will be represented this year. Tight security measures have been enforced due to continuing riots and protests in the country.

Mexico City: After several days of debate in the Mexican Congress, Carlos Salinas de Gortari was declared president-elect of Mexico. The Congress rejected charges brought up by the opposition over election fraud. The July 6th election marked one of the most contested races in Mexico this century. Salinas is a member of the PRI, which has never lost a presidential election since the party formed in 1927.

The Caribbean: On Wednesday, hurricane Gilbert was headed towards the Yucatan peninsula with 175 mph winds and torrential rains. The hurricane has already hit the Cayman Islands, Jamaica, and the Dominican Republic. Gilbert, with a 450-mile circumference, is one of the largest hurricanes ever recorded in the Western Hemisphere and is responsible for displacing one-fourth of the Jamaican population.

Africa: Pope John Paul II continued his 10-day trip through Africa as he travels through Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Lesotho, Botswana, and Swaziland. The Pope condemned South Africa for its apartheid system, stating that it destabilizes all of southern Africa. He also called for the release of Nelson Mandela, the imprisoned leader of the African National Congress.

Moscow: After a six-week absence, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev reappeared in public on Tuesday in Krasnoyarsk. Gorbachev experienced angry crowds calling for an end to food and housing shortages. The whole encounter was broadcast over Soviet news in an effort to show that the General Secretary addresses the concerns of his people.

Bangkok, Thailand: Amidst street protests and demonstrations, the Burmese Parliament agreed Monday to allow for multiparty elections in three months. Lawmakers also called for the ruling party to oversee the voting and to make changes in the Constitution to allow for a political opposition.

HEY! Have you got an opinion? Express it! Write to The Davidsonian, Davidson’s one and only student weekly.

BANK Locations in Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville. New! Davidson Location.

ZACK’S FAMOUS FROZEN YOGURT
It's Sundae Everyday of the Week at Zack’s. Try these favorites:

* CARAMEL NUT SUNDAE -- Creamy smooth caramel and nuts swirled over vanilla frozen yogurt, topped with whipped cream and a cherry.
* FUDGE ALMOND SUNDAE -- Hot fudge, marshmallow cream, fresh sliced almonds, and whipped cream. Sure to satisfy even a hard-core chocoholic!

Norman Crossing Shopping Center, I-77 & Hwy 73, Exit 28, Lake Norman/Cornelius.