Ortmayer in Presidential race! p. 3

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXVIII, Number 11
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Friday, January 15, 1988

New dorm construction stalled in planning stages
August completion deadline is called into question
By TRIPP HELMS

Architects are still drawing plans for the three apartment-style dormitories to be built between the soccer field and the Covington Golf Facility. The deadline for completion of the project has been set for August 20, but a late start has brought this projection into question.

The dorms were proposed in September and a set of plans was drawn for two-story dorms with a capacity of 128 students. In early November, the plans were changed to three-story structures housing 144 students. According to Grover Meetze, Director of Facilities Planning, the change in plans is the reason for the delay in construction.

Little and Associates, a Charlotte architecture firm, was hired to draw the plans. The firm is now in the process of revising the first set of plans. Architect Jim Metze promises that the new plans will be finished by Monday, January 18. Once the plans are finished, contractors at Barger Construction in Mooresville will begin the process that leads to construction, says spokesperson John Johnson. Clearing and grading, the first step in the construction, will start three to four weeks after Barger receives the plans.

Johnson says that the finish date will be determined by the specific demands of those plans, and he will not commit himself to projecting a definite completion date. When asked about the August deadline, Johnson said, “I just don’t know... I can’t say until I see the plans... they should be completed by early fall at the latest.” Johnson says that the timetable will depend on many factors: the availability of building materials like brick, limestone, and steel; the schedules of his subcontractors; and the weather conditions. The project “seems to be fairly simple” and Johnson does not anticipate any unusual difficulties with the construction.

President John Kuykendall and Director of Residence Life Tom Jennings maintain that the construction will be completed by August 20. Kuykendall states simply, “It [the construction] will be done.”

See DORMS, p. 3

Dean OF eee talent show. MCI OES del ts | F aula — warbles at last night's : ‘Photo by Robert Nesbit

Cornelson Lecturer Eisner sheds light on federal deficit
By WHIT WILKS and DOUG POLAK

On Wednesday evening Dr. Robert Eisner, current president of the American Economic Association, spoke on “The Budget Deficit: Myths and Realities.” This was part of the Cornelson lecture series in economics.

Eisner began his discussion by stating that many use, but few understand the correct meaning of the terms deficit and debt. He explained that one’s deficit is the excess of expenditures over receipts. To make up the difference, one must borrow, and this act adds to one’s debt. He compared and contrasted the government deficit to that of major private corporations such as GM and IBM. Because of separate capital accounts, Eisner said, the private corporations are able to hide their deficit and show a profit. He cited the examples of GM and IBM, which are presently running 27.9 and 16.3 million dollar deficits respectively, yet which are able to mask this deficit in a capital investment asset. The government is not able to create such an account; therefore its expenditures cannot be distributed to various productive asset accounts.

Eisner commented that it appears the federal debt has been growing, but...When one makes adjustments for inflation, the figure is not as overwhelming. He noted that few people measure the debt issue in real terms, and that if this method were more widely implemented, one would find in the early 1980s an actual government surplus. The notion of current dollars adjusted for inflation is a concept Eisner would like to see given more importance. Eisner went on to add that the deficit has a certain unwarranted stigma attached to it. The notion that the Dow drops due to correlation to the deficit is ludicrous, according to Eisner. With the use of a graph, he pointed out a strong historical correlation between large deficits and a strong Dow average. He went on to state that since 1982, the U.S. has been running a real deficit. Unemployment skyrocketed to over 10% in 1982. Since then, we have undergone a period of recovery, and the figure has dropped to 5.7%. He reinforced the idea that deficits are an important matter, but only when considered in relation to issues such as percentage of GNP. In a table, Eisner showed that in 1946 the deficit was 119.8% of total GNP. By 1980, this figure was reduced to 27.8%. No one was concerned with the Truman deficit instability, yet today our deficit causes great concern. Keynesian economics clearly supports a government deficit as a means to stimulate a nation’s economy. Eisner also feels that a productive deficit is perfectly acceptable. Many of us today worry about our grandchildren and their responsibility to the debt. Eisner contends that cutbacks in the deficit now could be more detrimental to our grandchildren’s future than a continued increase in spending. Cutting back on expenditures for education and development would be counterproductive to the country’s goals. Eisner suggests a 6% growth rule in accord with the growth of real GNP. This way there would be no real deficit at all. Right now, the deficit growth is above this.

See EISNER, p. 3

Approved in International Studies
By KATHERINE PRICE

In a December meeting, Davidson faculty members voted to include a “Concentration in International Studies” among the changes in the academic curriculum for 1988-89. While the upcoming change from a quarter system to a semester system has been publicized widely, few students are aware of the new Concentration in International Studies and the opportunities it will bring. The Concentration in International Studies will allow students to “receive transcript acknowledgment” of international study and exposure. Students can express international career interest on their official transcript, in addition to completing major department requirements. Director Jack Perry of the Dean Rusk Program explains, “For the Rusk Program, and promoting international studies, this is a major move. It will enable students interested in an international career to put a strong foundation under those plans while still an undergraduate.” Currently, students may choose a major course of study to be noted on the academic transcript, but minor fields of interest receive no recognition. Students pursuing the Concentration in International Studies must submit a written application to the International Education Committee during the first semester of their junior year. Requirements include six courses in international studies, foreign language proficiency, and experience abroad. Dr. C. Earl Edmondson, who was instrumental in formulating the requirements, adds, “We hope that the concentration will encourage students in general to...

See CONCENTRATION, p. 3