Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

S eo eC A rT. The Davidsonian | Monday, April 18, 1988

Resurrection of the Oyster Queen

She who is not of your world,
But of the grooved shell and ocean mist,
Came unbidden, borne by the sea-breeze brine.

Salted She was with blue;
Oystered pools were her eyes.
Emergent then,
From froth and blood and water,
Ancient upon ancient,
Leagues upon leagues.
While violet-faced fishes—
Purple squibbed acolytes,
Bent their gilted reverent mouths,
And strained their silvered voices in song.

But at this moment and at this your time,
All is overflowing and again becoming.
As when Abraxas did break forth unadorned,
Thin yellow tapestry were his wings,
Stunning alive and braided feathered beak,
And stained silver fangs.
An age rolls forth anew
Within the palms of the resurrected Oyster Queen.
She commands the names of night—
Moriel, Tempast, Pazuzu.
The Cthonic one will once again bend in supplication,
Against the gelid blasts.
How they hunch now in the auburn dusk,
At ocean side singing to the risen She.

- John Morton Gillikin '89

American Prayer

Words are the stitches of an emotional physician
But also the blade of a bleeding heart's knife
A twin to the knife that cuts directly through my spine
At first, leading on by the bridle of the horse
It's all alright and sounds just fine
The mind bordering on the edges of ecstasy and insanity
Time reveals the lies and the falsehoods
My heart stricken down by trickery
Is there some sick amusement derived through my suffering?
I was willing to open the holding cells of my soul
You just slam them all back shut without care
And not even a second thought about the pain you're causing
Life is drifting away like a blood-filled cloud
Traveling towards the edges of shadows in the dark
A silhouette in the night; dust in the wind

Life Explained For My Mother

- Lucy Siler '91

Ralph died. Narrow, tunnel-visioned dreams abound
All but turned into nightmares
As if cursed by Ralph's death.
The terrible pain
And when he
I often rise
Their new
Info
Every
North Carolina
Neither she
You just
And not even
Life is drifting away
Traveling towards
A silhouette in the night; dust in the wind

Life Explained For My Mother

---

Note: Some parts of the text were unclear and seemed to be fragments or misplaced lines. They have been left
as is to preserve the original content as much as possible.
