Y-Student Service Corps

Now is a great time to contact these people if you wish to volunteer and become a part of the
Y-Student Service Corps.

Community Liaison--Dave Rochford (-6054)
Campus Liaison--Ed Genovese (-6248)
News Shorts
Big Sister/Big Brother--Kirk Orrell (-6190)
CROP--Linda Tatsapaugh (-5695)
Davidson Tutoring--Vincent Knight (-1613)
Florence Crittenton--Becky Benton
North Meck YMCA--Reid Chisholm (-6361)

By JON BOLES

Forty-two Davidson students have chosen to leave the comforts of our esteemed institution this year to cast themselves into the
unknown. These students have not retreated to the wilds of Africa, although some of our alumni have chosen that path
in the past -- these brave souls have “gone JYA.” Davidson’s Junior Year Abroad programs in Montpellier and Wuerzburg are
well-known and quite popular, each sending fifteen to twenty students abroad every year. Beaver College programs attract a good number
of students as well, with sixteen Davidsonians currently studying in Great Britain and two in Vienna. These are only a
few among a multitude of possibilities, however. Opportunities present themselves on every continent, and each year students manage to find
their way to such exotic places as Kenya, China, Japan, or Costa Rica.

There are also alternatives available for students who don’t want to spend an entire year away from Davidson. Every other
year, the College offers programs of study in France on art history, in the lands of classical antiquity on Greco-Roman
civilization, and in India on Indian civilization. Furthermore, the Spanish department sends small groups of students to Latin America and
Spain in alternating years, and the History and English departments sponsor a combined program at Wolfson College of Cambridge University
each year. Financial aid is also available for all Davidson-sponsored activities, and the Dean Rusk program offers grants to students
who choose to design their own study programs. As Davidson becomes more and more internationally oriented, the number of students
taking advantage of these opportunities is growing. According to Carolyn Ortmayer, Acting Coordinator of Study Abroad, approximately one-third of the
students in each class spend time outside of the country with summer, semester, or year-long programs before graduation. Ortmayer cites
three primary reasons why students go abroad: to enhance their language skills, to become familiar with or live in another
society, and to broaden their perspectives on the world.

“Studying abroad has other benefits as well, especially in terms of career aspirations,” she said. “It looks good on your
vita or applications for graduate schools -- even for pre-med or in a field that you normally wouldn’t associate with
foreign experience.” The deadline for application to the 1988-89 programs to Germany and France is February 1, and the due
date for applications to Cambridge is January 27.

Semesters switch hinges on Educational Policy Committee

Students, faculty, and staff work together to ease transition

By SUSAN PEARSALL

The Educational Planning Committee, chaired by Vice President of Academic Affairs Robert C. Williams, remains on schedule in its task
of examining and approving all changes in academic regulations and departmental curricula. All such changes must be approved and implemented
before the switch to semesters takes effect next year, and both Williams and the committee’s secretary, physics professor Robert Manning,
feel confident that most of their work will be completed, as planned, by March. Perhaps, said Williams, those who believe
that the approval process has been stalled are simply responding to the fact that the EPC’s task will necessarily take
a long time to complete. The ten-member committee, which includes students Pete Mangone and Mary Olive Smith, now meets for
at least two hours every week, and has completed its review of all the changes in a few departments.

The committee has already completed the revision of academic regulations, allowing the Registrar to send out a note explaining the
new standards of progress to all enrolled students. The faculty will have to approve the new curriculum at its March
meeting; it adopted the set of regulations and standards of progress Jan. 12, “a big step” in the changeover process,
according to Registrar Dr. Sue Ross. The EPC’s ongoing charge is to review all new courses submitted by the various
departments aswell as any proposed changes in academic regulations, and then to bring them before the faculty for a vote
each year. Thus, when the decision was made to switch to semesters, the responsibility of implementing the curricular conversion to
the new system fell with Williams and the EPC. The members must review all courses, decide how they fit into
the new curriculum, work with the departments on course-numbering systems, and help the department heads to decide which courses will
be considered part of the core curriculum. Both Ross and Williams find this process of review “exciting” because, said Williams,
“this is the first time in twenty years that the faculty is taking a close look at what it teaches.”

“We want to make sure,” he added, “that present students don’t get caught in the transition. We want to treat
them tenderly. Whenever a close call arises [concerning graduation or major requirements], it will be decided in favor of the
student.” In addition, Williams is hopeful that few professors harbor the attitude that more weeks of class give them the
chance to increase students’ workloads; this would defeat the purpose of the new system, meant to lessen daily classroom and
studying time.

Ross is pleased that students will now have much more flexibility in their academic planning. Those who have gotten behind
a couple of credits will now have a chance to graduate on time, because they will be able to take
ten courses a year, if necessary. “I think students will find that they have a lot more control over their
academic paths,” she says. “It’s really an exciting time, because everyone is thinking about why we’re here, and what we
want our graduates to know. We’re looking at what we are trying to accomplish, in the broadest sense.”

To help students adjust to the new system, Ross will be sending out personalized inventories of completed courses, specifying what
each student will need to graduate with his desired major.

Manning, however, is less pleased with the coming change to semesters. While he is optimistic about the work of his
committee, he believes that a calendar change will not solve one of the real problems at Davidson: the gap between
teaching and actual learning. While semesters would supposedly give students more of a chance to research and ponder the material
covered in class, Manning claims that a new calendar cannot add hours to a day, and that teachers and students
may continue to demand too much of each other to concentrate on learning rather than work.

He said that low salaries can affect faculty morale and performance. “I hope that we don’t reach a point of
crisis before something is done,” he said. Yoder commented that there is a “pretty good chance” that the administration will
respond favorably to the junior faculty report, especially in order to raise salaries to a level from which Davidson will
be able to compete with other selective institutions. His sentiments were echoed by one assistant professor who stated that he
didn’t think that Davidson is competitive with other schools in terms of salaries offered to starting faculty. “If you come
here, it has to be for more reason than that of salary.” Especially, he continued, for those who must provide
for a family or buy a home.

The price of homes is a primary complaint among faculty. The junior faculty response document stated, “[We] find housing prices
in or near Davidson prohibitive. It has been conservatively estimated that the minimum cost for suitable housing is over $100,000.”
Shi said that Davidson’s real estate value is escalating with the increased move of Charlotteans into the town and the
lake area.

Further findings of the committee include a reported decrease in the percentage of the college’s budget allocated to faculty salaries:
“...the percentage of the College budget allocated to faculty salaries has steadily dwindled from 23 percent to 21.1 percent over
the last four years.” This trend has continued despite yearly tuition increases. Another trend mentioned in the committee report was
the “dramatic increases of expenditures within other sectors of the Davidson College budget...” The report urged the trustees to consider
that the expenditure required to restore faculty salaries to “appropriate levels” was small in relation to expenditures in other areas
of the budget.

The committee proposed that the ultimate goal of the college should be to “...adopt salary and compensation goals reflecting our
institutional commitments to recognized excellence.” It further recommended that Davidson should be competitive with the top five schools “of the
appropriate category in any given year.”

A meeting to discuss the committee findings and junior faculty response will be held Monday, January 25th. In attendance will
be President Kuykendall, Dean of Academic Affairs and Faculty Robert Williams, members of the Professional Affairs committee, and Robert Sutton,
Vice-President of Business and Finance.
