6 Pop Films

“Crocodile” Dundee offers not a bit of originality, but it’s still a fun movie!

By JOHN HARRIS

Here we go again! Once more the Union Pop Film Committee has selected another film for our viewing pleasure that nearly all of us have already seen. Oh well, I suppose I shouldn’t complain, seeing that I have the disgustingly expensive habit of seeing movies at least four or five times anyway. In any event, since the film is here, let’s talk about it, shall we? Okay, get comfy ‘cuz “Crocodile” Dundee might make you fidget.

The premise of this film is rather old, dating back to a couple of 1930s Tarzan films along the lines of Tarzan Goes to New York. In this Australian update, Nick “Crocodile” Dundee (Paul Hogan) visits the Big Apple at the insistence of a female reporter (Linda Kozlowski) who is fascinated by his Outback way of life. Naturally, his primitive lifestyle and naiveté take the New Yorkers by storm (note his encounter with a pair of prostitutes). The hectic pace of the big city does not overwhelm Dundee, nor does he feel compelled to adapt. He merely brings his refreshing quality and unwitting humor to a society moving too fast to recognize its own charm. In short, the film is, well, cute. But it is definitely a fun movie.

Unfortunately, and despite his occasional flashes of charm and wit, Paul Hogan merely walks through his role of the Aussie adventurer. Those of you familiar with his sleeper-hit Australian TV series “The Paul Hogan Show” (Australian counterpart to the comparatively unfunny “Benny Hill Show”) will no doubt be disappointed by his uninspired performance. All he really does in the film is walk around and smile a lot. Hogan, who conceived and co-wrote the screenplay, is capable of much better. Word has it, incidentally, that the people of Australia were not particularly overwhelmed by Hogan’s portrayal of the Aussie image. Despite that fact, “Crocodile” Dundee became the most commercially successful film from Down Under to ever hit the world’s movie screens.

For those of you who can’t get enough of Hogan or Dundee, a sequel is in the works, with the two principals (Hogan and Kozlowski) reportedly furthering their on-screen romance. Can’t wait! Perhaps the makers of Dundee II will rehash even more movie clichés than the cliché-ridden original!

“Crocodile” Dundee is fun and cute, but it lacks even as much as a speck of originality. That’s a shame, because the talented cast could have easily carried a better script. And finally, once again: not a single bare hooter to be found (not that it would have mattered).

Thursday, February 18, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Senior Diana Titus-Allen and Mary Jo Clarke help celebrate the tenth anniversary of the founding of the Open Luncheon. Photo by Bill Giduz

The Last Emperor: mixing sensibilities beautifully

By BRUCE PLOURDE

The same guidelines for assessing the value of a book also apply to the assessment of a film. The simple reason for this dual application is that novels and films are close allies. Both are devices for telling a story. At times the paper and ink medium achieves the result better than the celluloid medium, and vice versa. Moby Dick, for instance, considers the relations of man, nature, and the caprices of Heaven, whereas in translation it becomes a film merely about whaling. Star Wars relies on its stunning display of visual effects which lose more than a modicum of their impact in paperback version. Still, the origins of many fine films lie in fine books. The film transduces from the printed page the appeal of the book, to some degree, while eliminating the need for the activation of the participant’s imagination.

One scale for estimating the relative quality of a book relies on the work’s effect on the sensibilities. Movies, like novels, touch the viewer’s awareness through three channels: human interest, aesthetic value, and intellectual stimulation. A novel which fulfills its reader’s expectations engages all three of these sensibilities. The fine film...also does not concentrate on only one part of this set, but manages to somehow meld the trio together. The formula, so seemingly simple, is HEALTH, from p. 5

...lated in saliva, but it has not been a means of transmission. There can be minor injuries to tissues in the genital and oral area during sexual activity. These injuries or tears allow the AIDS virus to enter your system. Confidential, anonymous testing is available in Charlotte and at The Davidson Clinic. Instead of using your name, you will be given a code or number and none of this will appear in your medical chart or be filed elsewhere. For further information, you may call The Davidson Clinic at 892-7905 or the Metrolina AIDS Project at 333-2437. You will be given counseling before and after the testing to help understand how the test works and what your results mean. Send your comments and questions to: Confidential Health, The Davidson College Infirmary, Davidson, NC 28036.

...more difficult a problem than one might anticipate, which explains why there are not more chef-d’oeuvres in literature and cinema. Films which win the Golden Globe award most often undertake to engage all three sensibilities and do so successfully. Imagine a film which has won four such awards. The Last Emperor, directed by Bernardo Bertolucci, is such an example. Throughout its course, it simultaneously calls upon the sensibilities and envelopes its audience with its fascinating artistry. The Last Emperor gives the biographical account of the life of Pu Yi, last emperor of the Qing (Manchu) Dynasty, and last ruler of imperial China.

Becoming emperor as an infant, he grows to see his land become the People’s Republic of China, a country with no use for “the Son of Heaven.” Only within the confines of the Forbidden City does he wield absolute power over his subjects. He commands, and his subjects obey. But they obey by choice, according to their beliefs in the customs of the past. When he attacks the policies he himself must obey, he attacks the only support for his power, which is tradition, and soon finds how ineffectual his power is.

The pageantry of the Forbidden City is exquisite. Bertolucci had total control of the atmosphere and made it appear, if not truly authentic, then beautifully believable. The Star Trek-like color coding of the actors’ costumes implies rank: imperial yellow for the chief, various blues for the emperor’s consultants, and elegantly patterned reds for persons of lesser importance. They perform the rites of worship within the confines of the Buddhist architecture. Corruption of the entire court completes the vision of reality.

When the PRC evicts Pu Yi and his family from his city, he turns to the Japanese for help. The Japanese restore him to power in his native Manchuria. Again, ruling inside the confines constructed by his supporters, he plays the part of a puppet emperor, signing his name to whatever ordinance they deem necessary, and realizing his impotence when acting contrary to their wishes. Only as prisoner 981 of Mao’s Republic can Pu Yi, last emperor of China, recognize his limitations and accept that he will never be more than a gardener. Once a demi-god with absolute sovereignty, Pu Yi loses all his power and supremacy to become one humble and graying member of the multitudes.

Not only is The Last Emperor moving on a personal level, but it is told in epic proportions, encompassing China’s transition from Empire to Republic to Communist state. And it is the story of the one man most adversely affected by the turning of China’s tides. John Lone (Year of the Dragon), Joan Chen, and Peter O’Toole bring the emperor, his wife, and his beloved English tutor to credible life. One leaves this film believing that he has seen and felt part of the history of China, and that one has learned something in the bargain.