: Features Cinema Classics

Sex, humor, literacy: She’s Gotta Have It has it all

By FRANK LORD

Can sex be funny? Well, according to Spike Lee it can and, having seen She’s Gotta Have It, I'd have
to agree with him. She’s Gotta Have It is the story of Nola Darling and her three boyfriends: Jamie Overstreet
(Tommy Redmond-Hicks), Greer Childs (John Canada Terrell), and Mars Blackmon (Spike Lee). Each of the three is involved in a
relationship with Nola and wants the other two out of her life. Nola, however, can’t seem to make up her
mind, which places all of them in a series of situations that you can’t help but find amusing.

First films, especially first films by young directors, are often problematic. Unfortunately, inexperience tends to show which sometimes makes the
films difficult, if not annoying, to watch. Luckily, this is not the case with Mr. Lee. For the most part,
She’s Gotta Have It is directed with an ease that belies his inexperience. That’s not to say that there are
no moments when things almost get away from him, but rather, that even the few minor detractions are not bothersome
enough to really detract from one’s enjoyment of the film.

What I found most encouraging about the film was Lee’s obvious literacy in regard to cinematic vocabulary. He manages to
merge film theories from sources as diverse as Sergei Eisenstein, Orson Welles, and the French New Wave (specifically Jean-Luc Godard)
without having the whole degenerate into one long series of cinematic quotations as is often the case. From this synthesis,
he manages to create a style that is, without question, his own.

One of the problems with the motion picture industry today is that there is so little money available to produce
films when there are no big names involved. You see, making a film is an extraordinarily expensive venture and the
larger studios, wary of laying out the amount of capital involved in the making of films that might not produce
a large profit, have made it nearly impossible for new blood to get involved in the making of films. Thus,
the aesthetics of the Hollywood film have stagnated as innovation has been effectively eliminated.

A very few individuals have managed to avoid the Hollywood stranglehold by finding their own financing or, in the case
of Robert Townsend, charging all of the production costs on their credit cards. This group of new filmmakers, of which
Spike Lee is one, offer, I believe, the real hope for the future of American cinema. We can only hope
that their films continue to be as strong as She’s Gotta Have It.

She’s Gotta Have It shows Friday 9/23 at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., as well as Tuesday 9/27 at 9:45
p.m. All shows are in the 900 Room. Remember to bring your Davidson ID, you cretin. Brenda Tapia and Stone
Bynum will give a brief introduction to the film on Tuesday.

Pop Films

A SERIOUSLY SEXY COMEDY

The French Lieutenant's Woman stimulates eye but not mind

By LEE BUSHKELL

In The French Lieutenant’s Woman, there is the classic conflict between passion and responsibility. This clash is classic when well
done, and just boring when not. The French Lieutenant's Woman is an example of the latter.

The movie is divided into a plot and a sub-plot dealing with the relations of the two main characters on
and off camera. Although this is a good idea, there is too much material covered in each plot to complete
the other. They are unwieldy and hard to follow during the first thirty minutes. This difficulty is so great that
I had to rewind and watch the beginning again to understand their relationship to each other.

The basic plot revolves around the relationships between three main characters: Charles (Jeremy Irons), Mary (Emily Morgan), and Sarah (Meryl
Streep). The plot is a rather hackneyed “other woman” story about the seduction of an engaged man by another woman.
After spying the delusionary Sarah on a pier, Charles becomes intrigued with her, desiring to know her secret. As Charles
becomes more attracted to Sarah, she draws him closer, destroying his relationship with Mary.his fiancée Mary. Charles’s infatuation with Sarah
leads to his destruction, for he has lost his reputation in London and is shattered emotionally. The sub-plot is somewhat
different, but when combined with the first plot, the movie becomes bogged down. The two actors that play Sarah and
Charles also become romantically involved during the shooting and must decide whether to end their involvement or to leave their
other attachments and marry. The two actors, Anna and Mike, ultimately must face the same decision as their characters, although
they choose different solutions. The former characters choose to run off together, the actors do not. During the movie, I
continually asked myself why there were two plots. Either could have stood alone, yet are ineffective when combined. Meryl Streep
is once again cast as a desperate woman, and viewers must wonder when a movie will liberate her from such
a redundant role. Streep herself seems tired, and I found little difference between the Sarah and Anna characters. Jeremy Irons
is passable in the film, but one senses a certain boredom in his performance. Perhaps the two actors sense their
inability to help such a confused script and resign themselves to it. There is also the problem of Sarah’s insanity.
What is her problem, and what in her past causes it? The problem is dealt with poorly in a scene
describing “melancholia,” but is this her true disorder? The viewer is only given the symptoms, not the diagnosis. I was
also struck by the lack of tension in the movie. There was no doubt in any viewer’s mind that Charles
was going to fall in love with Sarah, and I was constantly telling the action to speed up. In a
true drama, the hour spent

See WOMAN, page 6

Dear Confidential Health,

Is it true if you drink milk with alcohol, it will help coat your stomach? I assume you are asking
whether milk will slow the rate at which alcohol is absorbed, reducing the chances of getting sick or drunk. The
answer is maybe, but not for the reasons you think. Dairy products make very good snacks to serve with alcoholic
beverages. Cheese and crackers have long been party favorites—for a good reason. High protein foods like peanuts and meat are
also excellent. Food in the stomach slows the passage of alcohol to the small intestine. It is not from the
stomach but the small intestine that most alcohol is absorbed into the bloodstream, thus reducing the rate of absorption. The
coating effect of milk on the stomach is minimal. Milk’s primary usefulness in this case is to dilute the alcoholic
drink. You want to go out, have fun, drink, and not get drunk or sick, right? No problem. The first
thing is to eat a good meal. Pastas are super but any balanced meal will do. If you just eat
a salad, you’ll want to go real easy on the alcohol. The average alcoholic drink has between 90 and 120
calories. (To work off the calories in one 12-ounce beer, you have to jog about one mile.) Also, very little
in the salad will help slow the rate of absorption of alcohol. Next, remember that your liver can only metabolize
about a half-ounce of alcohol per hour (roughly one beer or one mixed drink). There is nothing you can do
to speed up this process. The more you drink, the more alcohol remains in your system and begins affecting other
parts of your body. Most noticeable of these are your circulatory system and your brain. Heart rate increases and small
blood vessels constrict. The blood supply to your brain is restricted, hence the buzz or lightheadedness which occurs after having
had a few drinks. Thus, it is very wise to sip your drinks—pace yourself. Some people have found that they
can drink a lot and not get sick if they also smoke marijuana. This may be true but the price
you pay can be more than was bargained for. Alcohol is a toxic substance. Vomiting is a

See HEALTH, page 8
