22, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

Nit-PCCing

The ostensible reason behind the creation of the Patterson Court Alcohol Policy is the promotion of “responsible service and consumption of alcoholic beverages on Patterson Court.” Still, everyone knows that the policy was intended primarily to lessen the legal liability of the college and the Patterson Court houses in the event of a lawsuit. So why has the Enforcement Council chosen to issue its first real sanction of the year for a violation which has nothing to do with the question of legal liability?

When Mr. Ethridge proved his age with his North Carolina driver’s license instead of his Davidson I.D., he was well within the confines of state law. Indeed, he may have acted more appropriately than the hundreds of students who presented their Davidson I.D. cards that night. State drivers’ licenses are accepted across the nation, while a Davidson I.D. won’t get you anything outside the campus, except perhaps a polite “I’m sorry.”

The Enforcement Council didn’t have to subject Warner Hall to such stiff sanctions for the violation of such an ill-advised rule. It probably should have just issued another warning, and then asked the PCC to make a quiet call for the elimination of the rule at its next meeting. The alcohol policy is easy to amend, and it should be changed as soon as possible. As it stands now, the rule against use of drivers’ licenses can only serve to damage the authority of the PCC by subjecting it to scorn and ridicule.

‘Terror Code?”

Someone has put a sign on one of the back doors of the Vail Commons. The sign reads, “Do not admit anyone through this door.” Underneath, in black letters, stand the ominous words “Honor Code.” The obvious implication is that anyone who lets a friend enter the Commons through a back door will be charged with an honor violation. Whoever made the sign probably hoped that students would be so intimidated by the words “Honor Code” that they would refrain from breaking the Commons’ long-standing rule against letting people in through the back door. No one wants to get kicked out of school for something like that.

A careful study of the Honor Code, however, fails to turn up any reference to the Commons. Nowhere among the list of violations is there any injunction against “admitting individuals to the Vail Commons through the entrances situated at the rear.” In other words, opening the back door of the Commons may be an infraction of dining service regulations, but it is not an honor violation. It probably isn’t even a violation of the Code of Responsibility, and if it is, it’s a pretty minor one. The Honor Code requires us “to refrain from cheating, stealing, and lying,” so as long as we’re honest we’re not violating the Code.

Unfortunately, someone at the Commons has decided to misrepresent the Honor Code, to use the fear it generates to enforce a minor rule of dubious value. The sign abandons the Code’s noble principles of honor and trust, seeking only to scare the tar out of nervous freshmen by threatening them with humiliation and expulsion. Do people really think that the Honor Code’s stiff sanctions exist to scare students into obeying even the most trivial rules and regulations? How can we build a community founded upon mutual trust and respect if we allow people to stick “Honor Code Violation” labels all over campus to remind us of all the different ways we can get ourselves expelled? Wouldn’t it be easier to place death’s head symbols on all the things we’re not supposed to steal, like library books, Pop Film posters, and examination envelopes?

The Honor Code was intended to help students develop into honest, trustworthy citizens. If we continue to portray the Code as a collection of petty rules and stiff punishments, we'll be helping to create a bunch of paranoid, scheming citizens who forget about “honor” as long as nobody’s looking. If we trusted each other, we might not have to make all these rules.Indeed, if people really believed in the Honor Code, there wouldn’t be any rules against entering Vail Commons through the back doors. Everyone knows they’re not supposed to sneak into the Commons to eat food they haven’t paid for. Why shouldn’t students be allowed to let their friends come in and talk during dinner, as long as they promise not to eat anything? Do we really have so little trust in each other?

Q: How Do You Make Davidson College a Nationally Recognized Educational Institution?
A: Underpay the Assistant Professors and threaten them with their jobs. What do you mean, ‘Not enough money’? Say, isn’t your contract up for renewal soon?

INSTITUTE

Letters To the Editor:

Hey, where are the MacLads? I miss them.
A concerned student

Dear Concerned:
Good news! From what we understand, the MacLads will indeed be back next term. They’ve been in Siberia on a Watson fellowship studying Russkies and the finer points of collective farming. Betcha can’t wait.

To the Editor:
I am a busy Davidson senior economics major getting ready to enter the “real world,” and was wondering if you could help me out. In the midst of juggling a boyfriend, four courses this term, and my thesis, I was hoping to start up a publishing concern on the side. You know, do things like a radically conservative student weekly (like Dartmouth’s) or perhaps some Food Lion inserts. Do you know where I could find a slightly used typesetting machine? I am on a limited budget.
Another concerned student

Dear Another:
Aren’t you in luck! There happens to be a slightly used typesetter in our very own offices that is now collecting dust and the occasional kick in the keyboard from the assorted sundry ex-editors who happen to wander around the office. We are currently considering gutting it and using it as a planter, but we’re tickled pink to think that someone would actually use it. Bring by a flowerpot, and we’ll trade.

To the Editor:
Why do wrestlers carry around so much money at home meets? It strikes us that the money would be much better off in envelopes earmarked for the Sesquicentennial gift fund that are posted all over those dorms that have been plagued by thefts.
The Sesqui Gift Committee

To the Editors:
I have been disturbed by the recent turn to the right that the paper has exhibited. What’s wrong with you? Call me...
Yet another concerned student

Dear Yet:
Sorry. We’ve been slack. We're trying to build socialism in one newspaper, but the trustees are exploiting us and alienating us from our labor. But we don’t care, because the revolution’s coming and the whole thieving imperialist stinking pig-dog capitalist house of cards will collapse of its own weight. Ortmayer for President!

Dear Readers:
Why didn’t anybody actually write any letters this week? We got lots of great personal commentaries, but no bite-sized chunks of student concern.
The Editors

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. The offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. They are in fact more likely to if we actually wrote them, which we did this week. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. Ask 'em for a look at it; it’ll be worth your time.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill “Diatribe” Scouten, Florrie Snively.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Otrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Laura Dodenhoff, Callie Hammond, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love, Linda Tatsapaugh.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.