Friday, November 18, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson: International Issues

By BETH DRUMMOND and CAROL GATEWOOD

POLAND
In response to recent actions taken by the Polish government to undermine protests in the country, opposition forces have gone on a hunger strike. About 80 people initiated the strike after police violence broke open an unofficial march last Friday in Katowice, a city in Southern Poland. Also, several thousand Poles participated in demonstrations across the country to recognize the 70th Anniversary of the reborn Polish state. In the past few months, protest has grown since the Polish government has increased its opposition to the outlawed Solidarity union.

PAKISTAN
The Soviet Union has taken a step backwards in its plan to withdraw troops from neighboring Afghanistan. On Monday, Afghan insurgents reported that a large division of Soviet and Afghan government soldiers attacked a guerilla post along the Pakistani border. The troops used chemical weapons in their attack.

SOWETO
Rumors circulating in South Africa indicate that Nelson Mandela and five other leaders of the African National Congress may be released in just a matter of days. The leaders have been serving life sentences since they were imprisoned in 1964. The South African government anticipates that their release will be a political boost internationally, and it will open up negotiations with moderate black leaders who have refused to work with the government until Mandela is released. Mandela now is located in a hospital to receive treatment for tuberculosis.

SEOUL
South Koreans have recently initiated an investigation into the corrupt practices of former President Chun Doo Hwan and his authoritarian administration. National Assembly hearings have been televised in which witnesses have testified against Hwan, and now the public is calling for arrests of the former leader and his associates. Efforts to expose the repressive practices of Hwan’s regime could be politically destabilizing for Roh Tae Woo, South Korea’s present leader, who is a member of Hwan’s Democratic Justice Party. Political analysts believe it is important for the present administration to set a precedent in the nation’s history by “clarifying the past and establishing a sense of justice.”

THE MIDDLE EAST
Leaders of the PLO presently meeting in Algiers have agreed to accept all UN resolutions pertaining to the Palestinian issue and Israel’s status as a nation-state. This concession involves recognizing Resolution 242, which states that Israel has a right to exist as long as it lives with secure borders. Resolution 242 also mandates Israel’s withdrawal from territory occupied in 1967, in exchange for peace. The agreement marks a successful move for Yasir Arafat in unifying the radical factions of the PLO, who have refused to recognize the legitimacy of Israel as a nation-state.

Results from Israeli parliamentary elections now require the formation of another coalition government. Two ultra-Orthodox parties have quickly aligned themselves with the conservative Likud party. As a result, Shimon Peres and the Labor party have lost the right to form the next government. The two Israeli parties, in their alignment with the Likud Bloc, have demanded that the new government install stricter laws for citizenship, which has raised concern among Jewish leaders in the U.S.

UNCC’s Johnson speaks on Latin American history

By JAY CHAUDHURI

UNCC professor of history Lyman Johnson lectured to a group of interested students and professors on “Slavery in Latin America” November 3 in the Union’s Morrison Room. Johnson began by noting that there is “a hesitation in learning about Latin American history” in spite of the fact that the lure of foreign places encourages us to learn more about them. He first discussed slavery’s role in Iberia. Slaves were widely used there during warfare; however, the plague devastated a large part of the population of the Mediterranean region. Slavery was practiced on a more practical level in Spain and Portugal. Decades before Columbus reached America, Portugal acquired slaves from West Africa. In fact, said Johnson, Columbus himself was a slave-trader before becoming a sailor, for it was his idea to transport Indian slaves to Europe. The Spanish exploration made an impact when Ponce de Leon pursued Indian slaves, “not the Fountain...of Youth.” Johnson emphasized that slavery is generally associated with demographic characteristics in which there are abundant resources and scarce labor. Africans, unlike the Indians, were reluctant to trade in the New World because they lived in an Islamic world in which Christianity was rejected. The most significant trade in South America occurred in Brazil. Johnson noted that six percent of the African slaves had come to America compared to the forty-three percent imported to Brazil from Africa. Brazil was the first place where the sugar industry was profitable. This sugar agriculture produced a revolutionary effect on slavery. Brazil was the first plantation in the New World. However, Spanish America developed a stronger trade system, which eventually played a role in slavery’s development. Two important mining areas, Bolivia and north-central Mexico, had special labor conditions, remarked Johnson. Bolivia’s mining industry utilized Indian labor, and Mexico’s labor force evolved after a racially mixed population emerged from free labor. 

Slavery in Spanish America was more urban and penetrable than in the United States for two key characteristics: miscegenation and manumission. Miscegenation eventually created a society in which the identity of slaves was not quite clear. Manumission established “individual emancipation” for the slaves. Johnson said that the most important difference between Latin America and the United States was slavery in urban areas. Latin America, through cash and Portuguese and Spanish law, managed to produce a diverse racial society. The nomenclature (or racial identity) has been rooted in Latin America’s social organization because a vast majority of black Latin Americans do not see themselves as black. Johnson, however, mentioned that the United States has improved its racial integration over the past forty years. 

Johnson graduated cum laude from Tufts University in 1967 and received his master’s degree from the University of Maryland in 1968. After studying in Latin America through a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship and a Henry L. and Grace Doherty Fellowship, he received his doctorate at the University of Connecticut in 1974. He has been at UNCC since 1972 and is currently working on his fourth book. Johnson’s excellence in scholarship and teaching have brought him numerous awards including two Fulbright grants, which took him to Argentina in 1976 and to Wales in 1979; the NCNB Award for Teaching Excellence in 1980; and most recently the American History Association’s Albert J. Beveridge Fellowship in 1986.

CORRECTION
In last week’s story about the Watson nominations, an error was made in the description of Mibs Raney’s project. Her project concerns polarized sex roles and the increased incidence of rape; that is, if the potential for violence rises if proscriptions in a culture inhibit communication between the sexes.

The SGA Phonathon went off smoothly as usual. This fascinating picture shows the heat of the moment as students try to extract money from alumni and parents. 

STUDENTS. Medical school costs are rising every day. They're climbing faster than many students can handle without the right support. We offer an excellent scholarship program that can ease the burden of medical school costs and allow you to concentrate on your studies. Immediate Opening for Men and Women. $11,000 to $60,000. Construction, Manufacturing, Secretarial work, Nurses, Engineering, Sales. Hundreds of Jobs Listed. For more information, call TSGT WILL WILBURN 704-377-1812.