10 Friday, January 8, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alumnus challenges trustee decision on South Africa

Monroe T. Gilmore

In May 1987, the month Rev. Leon Sullivan branded his own Sullivan Principles ineffective in bringing about change in South Africa, Davidson’s trustees voted to continue using those principles as the basis for Davidson’s investments in companies doing business in that beleaguered country. On the surface, the fair labor practices embodied in the Sullivan Principles appear a healthy way to proceed in a country with legalized racial separation. Unfortunately, that view fails to grasp the magnitude, urgency, and nature of what is happening in South Africa.

After ten years of patient, persistent hope, Leon Sullivan came to see what the independent accounting firm Arthur Anderson documented and African scholar Elizabeth Schmidt detailed years ago: that the Sullivan Principles have been used as corporate camouflage by U.S. companies to mitigate stockholder pressure in this country while continuing to profit from the cheap, plentiful labor supply available under South Africa’s apartheid economic system. Rev. Sullivan stated that the only non-violent leverage left to pressure the South African government toward meaningful negotiations and change is for all U.S. companies to withdraw completely.

Davidson’s own faculty came to the same conclusion earlier in the spring, voting overwhelmingly 68-27 to request the trustees “to divest Davidson College of any investments in companies conducting business in South Africa.” Why then did the trustees go the continued-investment route? The key reason given in the Statement of Davidson Trustee Endowment Investment Policy is that “the Trustees are unconvinced that actions designed to end American investment in South Africa would achieve the end of apartheid or other results that are widely viewed as desirable.”

Do the trustees not find convincing the 1986 report of the Commonwealth Eminent Persons Group on Southern Africa? The group concluded that if the South African government were convinced that it would remain protected from economic sanctions, “the process of change in South Africa is unlikely to increase in momentum and the descent into violence would be accelerated.” Do the trustees not find sobering the report of the Senate Sub-Committee on Africa which almost a decade ago in 1978 concluded that “the net effect of American investment has been to strengthen the economic and military self-sufficiency of South Africa’s apartheid regime”? Do the trustees dismiss the call for total sanctions and divestment from COSATU, South Africa’s largest, 650,000-strong black trade union, from 1984 Nobel Peace Prize winner Bishop Desmond Tutu and from the United Democratic Front, the largest multi-racial alliance of South Africans opposing apartheid? Do the trustees not find compelling William Minter’s Foreign Policy article, “South Africa: Straight Talk on Sanctions” (#65 Winter 1986/87)? Minter points out that “black and white activists (in South Africa) committed to apartheid’s total abolition see comprehensive sanctions as a sign that world support for their cause goes beyond mere rhetoric.”

Do the trustees who are charged with maximizing endowment revenues not find useful the results of total divestment in Massachusetts, Washington, D.C., and in the University of Wisconsin, Michigan State University, and the State University of New York? According to the Africa Fund, all found that their portfolios were either not significantly affected or actually improved. Do the trustees have in their files the 1985 political risk analysis by Frost and Sullivan’s Political Risk Service which concludes that “South Africa is showing a deteriorating risk picture, both short and long term”? And have the trustees read the analysis and quotes from white businessmen from Zimbabwe who noted how even leaky sanctions forced upon them a buy/high, sell/low sanction premium, eventually grinding the economy of then-Rhodesia to such a low point they were forced to the negotiating table (“Lessons From Rhodesia” by Elizabeth Schmidt, 1986)?

What the Davidson trustees apparently do not see is that given the intransigence of the white South African government, sanctions are an important part of a long-term (not short-term) strategy to isolate South Africa morally and economically, to make the cost of continuing apartheid prohibitive and to bring the government to the negotiating table. True, Davidson’s $18 million in investments is minuscule in comparison to the total U.S. investment of $8.5 billion. But, that $18 million is no more insignificant than a $10 donation to a $14 million United Way Campaign. The cumulative effect of each institution doing its part with the resources available to it applies as much to keeping pressure on South Africa as it does to achieving a United Way goal. By choosing not to participate in that joint effort, the trustees have put Davidson College in what many people see as a shameful situation, one which betrays the college’s own ideals. The trustees would not purposely compromise Davidson’s ideals, nor would they knowingly invest in organized crime. What I reluctantly conclude, however, is that this vote does just that: makes Davidson an investor in apartheid, an investor in what the United Nations has termed an organized crime against humanity.

As the South African situation deteriorates, Davidson’s divestment policy must be continually reviewed.That end, I invite correspondence from fellow alumni who want to work together toward a trustee investment and educational policy more in line with the faculty request, one which will put Davidson College clearly on the side of real and positive change in South Africa. Monroe T. Gilmore, Jr. ’68 once managed a development project in Lesotho. He now lives in Black Mountain, North Carolina.

“The price of freedom is eternal vigilance” - John Eckbert

To some, patriotism connotes a naive if not blind support of one’s homeland. Founded in emotion rather than reason and wisdom, the phrase “my country right or wrong” typifies the patriotic mentality. Minds molded by demagogues who tempt the uneducated into positions that merely bolster the self-serving despot constitute the rank and file of patriots. They are the ones who volunteered for Vietnam. Poor souls, they died believing they were serving their country. Unquestionably some eloquent tyrants incite the spirit of nationalism for evil ends. Fanatical defense of the homeland against real and perceived enemies caused many of the horrors of the 20th century.

To many, patriotism stands for a historical movement of 18th-century colonial America. Modern values such as security, monetary success, “openness,” tolerance, and apathy supplant the antiquated tradition of sacrifice and patriotism, long dead and buried. The concept of a United States of America existed only in the territorial sense that it provided a system within which the individual could wander aimlessly pursuing his pleasure, be provided for by the government, and never return any service to the citizens of his country either individually or collectively.

Yet, I wish to convey to you the passionate love I know for America. I fear beginning because my words might not do this virtue justice, but my hope that you will share this feeling urges me on.

The United States of America finds her origin from a source different from that of other nations. Most nations spring spontaneously from physical bonds such as geographic boundaries, racial similarities, common language, shared religion, tradition, or custom or were the product of ambitious monarchs in search of a realm. The thirteen colonies that became the United States conform to few of these traits. Certainly, the modern American population boasts none of these unifying characteristics. Rather, an idea bound the colonies together and made them into a common cause.

From her conception, America found champions of liberty as her leaders. A political philosophy of the natural rights of man forms the foundation of this nation. “That all men are created equal and are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” This idea transcends the differences of peoples from the corners of the world of diverse cultures, religions, and languages and unifies them into a single country. While America was at times blind to the fair implementation of this principle, courageous men and women have fought triumphantly to open this nation’s eyes to these injustices. America stands a nation bound together by the belief of her people that humans deserve liberty. Through time this principle has been the guiding star for America. It molds it, unifies it, shapes it, bringing seemingly divergent interests into harmony by gathering her people to a common cause.

Men and women found in freedom something worthy of their sacrifice. Patrick Henry spoke these motivating words before the Virginia Colonial Congress: “Is life so dear and peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Almighty God, forbid it! I know not what path others may choose, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death.” These words ring true to my ears and evoke a pride in America that teaches me the meaning of American citizenship.

Despite the power of this passion, the demands of an intense and fast-paced life distract one from its importance. Day-to-day activities provide little opportunity to exercise patriotism. People tend to take for granted anything that seems to remain secure. Often we must be deprived of it to realize how significant it truly is. Perhaps then it is too late to recover it.

People the world over dream of America. Thousands flock to the United States every year. Most do not come for Bloomingdale’s, microwaves, VCRs, Mercedes, Visa Gold Cards, wealth, fame, and success. They come for freedom. When Americans no longer believe in the natural rights of human beings, the United States will have ceased to exist. Thomas Jefferson noted of liberty that “The price of freedom is eternal vigilance.” You cannot inherit it. Each generation must discover it anew and affirm the value of freedom by defending it against all who tend to undermine it. Nothing can be more pertinent today than a commitment to America. Without it, this oasis will certainly perish. I love America, more than I love my life.

John Eckbert is a sophomore from Winter Park, Florida.

You're astute enough to discuss the philosophical ramifications of Victor Frankl’s “Existential Vacuum” and yet you're still smoking?

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services