10

Men’s tennis has outstanding fall
By WHIT WILKS

The Wildcats have concluded their fall schedule, and Coach Jeff Frank is pleased with the results. Having lost numbers 1, 2, 4, 7, and 8 from last season’s squad, Davidson was facing what appeared to be a rebuilding year. After dominating their two dual matches and performing well in two tournaments, “reloading” appears to better describe the young 1988-89 team.

Davidson defeated Catawba 7-2, with both losses coming at the bottom of the doubles ladder, and destroyed UNCC 14-1. In the UNCC contest, 10 singles and 5 doubles matches were played as the Cats turned in an exceptional team performance.

The Washington & Lee Invitational included Ohio University, James Madison, Davidson, and the host school. Sebastian Koch won the top singles flight, losing no more than three games any set. Additionally, Koch (voted the tournament’s outstanding player) and freshman Dale Voeks got to the finals of the top doubles flight before falling. Tim Hagood got to the finals of the third flight doubles, while Kurtis Zabell and freshman John Beyer won the second flight doubles.

In the Don Skakle Invitational, the field included UNC, Wake Forest, Duke, N.C. State, Richmond, Presbyterian, and Davidson. Blake O’Brien and Hagood defeated teams from Wake and Duke on their way to reaching the finals in flight #2 doubles. O’Brien, Hagood, Voeks, David Jaspersen, and Mike Von Bodangen all won two of three singles rounds.

Frank has been very pleased with the fall campaign. The upperclassmen have provided leadership for freshmen, who in turn have handled collegiate tennis very well to this point. Frank can only hope that the solid play carries over into the spring season.

In Good Health
What are calories and how do you burn them?
By MARK PUCKETT

INFORMATION ON CALORIES (cited from The Weekend Athlete’s Fitness Guide by Peter Verney):

1. Your body uses about 1600 Calories a day for normal functions such as breathing, sleeping, and digestion.
2. You require additional Calories for day-to-day activity, i.e. occupation, recreation, exercise.
3. Your daily calorific intake usually exceeds your body’s requirements, even after counting calories burned in exercise. If you take in more calories than you burn, you will gain weight.
4. Every extra 3,000 Calories equals an approximate increase of one pound in weight. In other words, if you reduce your intake by 430 Calories a day, you will lose one pound after a week. Remember, though, if you are trying to lose weight, lose it gradually. It took a long time to put on the weight; it will take a while to lose it again.
5. The following table gives CALORIES CONSUMED PER HOUR for various sports:

Gentle Walking - 175
Walking Stairs - 200
Brisk Walking - 435
Basketball - 600
Biking (Recreational) - 250
Biking (9 m.p.h.) - 415
Golf (no cart) - 300
Baseball - 300
Rowing (Easy) - 300
Rowing (Sustained) - 660-800
Rowing (Sculling/Race) - 840
Running - 900
Swimming (Recreational) - 300
Tennis (Competitive Singles) - 600
Volleyball (Competitive) - 600
Waterskiing - 480

Many people think that if you quit exercising, your muscles will turn to fat. In a recent Charlotte Observer article by Gerri Kobren, entitled “Exercise Has Its Own Mythology,” Dr. Robert Zeigler dispels this myth with fact: “Muscles and fat are twodifferent kinds of tissue, and one does not turn into the other.” According to Zeigler, muscles shrink when you stop exercising. When you stop exercising, you burn less calories, causing fat cells to expand. “You may look as if muscles have been transformed, even though that’s not what happens,” he adds.

Monday, November 7, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats disappointed in Deep South Tournament
By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

Friday, the Davidson field hockey team wrapped up its season with a 2-0 victory over High Point College and finished with a 6-10-1 record. Seniors playing their final hockey games as Wildcats were Suzanne Mauze, Alison Chapman, and Marjorie Havighurst.

Sunday, Davidson played Duke and scored their first goal nine minutes into the game when Mauze made a beautiful cross from the left sideline to Lauren Follmer, who knocked the ball right between the goalie’s feet. The second goal came in the second half and was executed in the same fashion. Mauze crossed the ball, only this time Marjorie Havighurst was there to knock it in. The final score stood at 2-0. Davidson got 30 shots on goal to High Point’s 17, and Alison Chapman got 9 goalie saves.

Last weekend the Davidson field hockey team traveled to Salisbury to participate in the annual Deep South Tournament. Friday, the Wildcats lost 2-0 to High Point in what coach Betsy Pryor called “an even game.” “We just didn’t score,” she said. Davidson outshot High Point 19-18 but made a lot of mistakes in the circle as High Point was awarded a dozen penalty corners. Also, senior Eileen Keeley was knocked out of the tournament early after taking a hard stick to the knee. Friday’s loss to High Point put Davidson in the loser’s bracket in the double-elimination tournament and matched the Cats against Appalachian.

The second team, Deep South II, had Alison Chapman and Lauren Follmer, while the first team, Deep South I, included Gigi Cooke and Francesca Fierro. These players were selected from their performance in trial scrimmage situations as well as their team play. Players on these teams will represent the Deep South Field Hockey Association at the Southeast Tournament November 11-13 at Rockville, Maryland. At this tournament, players will go through the selection process for the National Festival, which takes place after Thanksgiving at the University of Maryland.

Junior Jay Schmitt, 45, drives for a layup against junior Magic Gaines, 23, during the intra-squad scrimmage Saturday, Oct. 29. The Wildcats will match up against each other again this Saturday, and on Nov. 19 they will challenge Bracknell Basketball Club of London in Johnston Gym. Davidson will officially open this season.

Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Cruise Ships — Now Hiring Men and Women...
Summer & Career Opportunities (Will Train). Excellent Pay Plus World Travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, Etc.
CALL NOW! 206-736-7000 Ext. 616C