Features

Pizza may be the Platonic form of food, but where’s the best place to buy it? A review of our three pizza-delivery establishments.

By SHANNON O’SHIELDS

Pizza. What a concept. The government has 230 regulations on the making of pizza. But somewhere between the pepperoni and the extra cheese, there is an ideology, a philosophy, a theory that is pizza. Eric Bone (’91) says that pizza is a “college staple” and that it is “a substitute for any kind of responsibility.” He also comments on the social aspect of pizza. “You can share a pizza with your hall, you can’t share a hamburger.”

Rich Ruotolo, from WDAV, comments on the technical side of pizza. “It’s good if it’s crispy. It needs semolina on the bottom.” (Semolina is a powdery substance that becomes crispy after it is cooked.) An anonymous sophomore says that “Pizza is the almost perfect food. It needs really crunchy veggies.” Assistant professor of religion Trent Foley says that his favorite part is the cheese, except when it sticks to the roof of his mouth and he ends up with “stalactites of cheese.” Freshman Nusrat Khan, a Pakistani Pizza Nut, reflects that “Before I came to the USA, I thought it was a land of hamburgers and Mickey Mouse. Now I know it is a land of pizza and Mickey Mouse.” One senior history major was heard to say, “It makes me fart.” But perhaps Brett Bakke (’89) stated the philosophy of pizza best: “First, pizza is the Platonic form of food. Secondly, it is what Aristotle spoke of in the Nicomachean Ethics as ‘the Good.’”

However you slice it, pizza is more than just some crust and cheese. But the most important thing about the pizza is who makes it. Those poor students who can’t drive out to Mooresville to get a Pizza Hut treat have to settle for the pizza delivery services around town. This amounts to three establishments: Pizza Trek, Pizza Connection, and Peregrine’s. I tried all three. Each pizza I ordered was a small pepperoni pizza with extra cheese. I tested them on flavor of cheese, amount of cheese, crust, overall quality, speed of delivery, and “intangibles.” The results:

Cheese: Pizza Trek and Pizza Connection were more generous in their allotment than Peregrine’s, but the Trek’s cheese had much better flavor.

Crust: Those who prefer a thicker crust would probably prefer the Connection, although I found it a bit too rubbery. If you prefer thin crusts, Pizza Trek is the one. For those who are ambivalent, Peregrine’s will suffice.

Quality: Pizza is greasy. If you truly despise eating greasy foods, you probably won’t eat pizza at all. The one complaint heard about the Trek was that its pizza was too greasy. I don’t think so. If you prefer a less greasy pizza, Peregrine’s is the one for you.

Delivery: Fastest: Pizza Trek. Slowest: Pizza Connection. Most desirous of a tip: Pizza Connection.

Intangibles: The two-for-one special at Pizza Trek can’t be beat for a big crowd. Three drinks are free with a large pizza.

Most of the people I spoke with preferred Pizza Connection. No one preferred Peregrine’s (Eric Bone says their ground beef is like “rabbit pellets”). The envelope, please? The reviewer’s personal favorite is Pizza Trek.

The Mei Duo, consisting of pianist Hao Huang and violinist Rachel Vetter Huang, will play the 900 Room at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Jan. 27.

Workshop theatre off and running in new season

By GRANT MORAIN

The workshop theatre season is upon us again, and if the first session is any indication of what is to come, the season will be a fruitful one indeed. Christopher Durang wrote both plays, and directors Bill Sutton and Jim Dillon have brought them to life successfully.

The Actor’s Nightmare focuses on George Spelvin, an accountant trapped on a stage in his underwear. He is forced to perform without any knowledge of lines, characters, or even the name of the play. Playwright Durang jumps brilliantly from scene to scene and line to line, and along the way he invokes such disparate sources as Waiting for Godot, Hamlet, and Murder in the Cathedral. Brian Kosanovich plays Spelvin as an itchy and nervous wimp who slides further and further into the theatrical melange. Kosanovich, who began his private rehearsals...Two weeks prior to auditions, lacks the energy and creativity in this role which he brought to last year’s Brighton Beach Memoirs. His Spelvin never gets angry or desperate as he should, but Kosanovich’s understanding of the lines is indisputable. This understanding and the actor’s natural talent (along with a radiant script) make the role work. Another theatrical veteran, Maxine Curry, shines in her numerous female leads. She is appropriately over-dramatic when called for but never loses sight of her obstacles. Cecily Craighill is excellent as Meg, the stage-sometimes-maid. She accurately displays the nervous energy of a crew member on the night of a performance. Keely Schneider and Russ Matthews submit fine performances in the numerous roles; Schneider is especially good delivering Beckett’s lines (Waiting for Godot) from the garbage can, while Matthews’ executioner is his strongest performance. Director Bill Sutton uses the small workshop stage well, and his cast members work as a team to create an outstanding production.

The second work is Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All for You. The play is a scathing and offensive—albeit hilarious—commentary on the Catholic Church. Dillon creates a classroom in which the Sister speaks directly to the audience about such issues as heaven, hell, and purgatory (where you can spend “anywhere from 300 to 700 billion years”), premarital sex, and why there is suffering in the world. Sarah Thomas is superb in the title role. Her delivery and timing are right on, and she develops an agreeable rapport with her “pupils.” She is so believable and funny, in fact, that she threatens to steal the show. Fortunately, the rest of the cast is up for the challenge. Most notably, Alyssa Kendall is wonderful in her portrayal of the angry and vengeful ex-student. Her character’s psychotic tendencies silence the audience’s laughter and bring Durang’s lesson home. Though it would be easy for Kendall to slip into melodrama, she remains within the boundaries of her character and comes off with flying colors. Peter Testa is the robot-like Thomas, Sister Mary’s student who is rewarded for correct answers with cookies (much like the dolphins at Sea World). The brainwashed boy is appropriately stilted and naive. The other ex-students, played by Richard Sheridan, Erika Augthun, and Carey Pickard, succeed as well. Sheridan avoids the stereotype in his portrayal of a homosexual and comes off as comfortable yet unsure in a well-acted role. Augthun is nonchalant and strong and most importantly her character works. Pickard tackles a difficult role competently and proves comical without overacting. Though the script makes the play easy to perform, Dillon’s group takes advantage of the opportunity and hits the high notes. The director brings a talented cast together and creates a chemistry which extends into the audience.

The pair of Durang plays are well-staged and provide for a truly entertaining evening. In this reviewer’s estimation, the directors—and the casts as well—all deserve A’s for a hilarious night of theatre.

Confidential Health

Why so many sore throats?

Dear Confidential Health,

I have had 6 sore throats this year. Each time I visited the infirmary, I was told that I had a virus. Two throat cultures were taken and were negative for Strep. Why am I getting so many sore throats? Why can’t I get antibiotics each time I get a sore throat?

—P.I.N.

Dear P.I.N.,

Sore throats may be caused by viral agents, postnasal drainage, irritants (cigarettes, marijuana smoke), and by bacterial agents, principally Strep. In scientific studies involving college students, the incidence of Streptococcal sore throat has been found to be no more than 16-20% of all sore throats. In other words, most sore throats are due to viral agents and do not require antibiotic treatment. Unnecessary antibiotic treatment should be avoided. Persons with a sore throat accompanied by fever, enlarged lymph nodes, or exudate may warrant a throat culture. This can be done at the infirmary. When large numbers of people are together in a fairly compact setting (e.g. Davidson College), numerous viral agents tend to be passed around. It is not unusual in such a setting for individuals to have several episodes of viral pharyngitis. Also, postnasal drip and irritants to postnasal drainage will sometimes be helped by antihistamine-decongestants.

—Dr. Steven K. Mange