Wednesday, February 10, 1988  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Around the horn  
Cosell asked the tough questions  
By HAP BRYANT  

“Two hundred years ago was really swell/ We didn’t have to put up with Howard Cosell.”—Mohammed Ali  

When Mohammed Ali was in his heyday, Howard Cosell was the American sports broadcaster. People disliked Cosell because he caused controversy. He liked debates, and he stood up for his principles—ethics and journalistic integrity. So people like “The Greatest” didn’t like him. Dogma had no place with Howard Cosell. He demanded proof for boasts, which upon occasion Ali could provide. At other times, he could not. Then Cosell called his bluff.  

Admittedly, I didn’t like Howard Cosell that much then either. I thought he had a big mouth. I still think so. However, now I like what he has to say. In the seventies, I was just a kid. Now, with a little bit of maturity, I can see the valid points that Cosell was making. When I read his book I Never Played the Game last summer, I recognized that Howard Cosell is a dying breed in sports journalism. Granted, sports journalism still has its characters—Bob Costas, “The Boomer” Chris Berman, and “The Commissioner” Todd Donoho—but they lack the insight that Cosell possessed. He transformed sports issues into ethical questions, making hard-hitting commentaries about the sports business.  

From his background as a lawyer, Cosell was able to attack the legal bases of sports. In particular, he questioned franchise moves, like Al Davis’ move from Oakland to Los Angeles and Walter O’Malley’s move from Brooklyn to Los Angeles. Though these issues are passé today, Cosell would undoubtedly find another issue to attack, as the sports business is full of iniquities and vices.  

But Howard Cosell was not some deity. I Never Played the Game is largely an outlet in which Cosell defends himself and criticizes his detractors. However, it raises many points that are relevant to sports in general, and it makes one question the basis of decision-making.  

Howard Cosell is not coming back to the broadcast booth. Although it did not end his career entirely, the Alvin Garrett episode was the last straw in Cosell’s alienation from the sports broadcasting business. Certainly, he can remain financially sound with a wealth of speaking engagements and his radio show, “Speaking of Sports.”  

But where did Howard Cosell leave the business of sports journalism? Surely, he left it in a better state than that in which he found it, but it seems a complacency has befallen the industry.  

Reporters and television announcers seldom ask the gut questions of the sports business. They seem satisfied to leave those issues to news reporters. From my own experience, I know it’s better for knowledgeable sports people to examine the problems in the industry, instead of letting newspeople with absolutely no knowledge of the particulars (like John Barrow) try to stick their little generalizing platitudes into a realm that they do not understand.  

So, Mr. Cosell, where do we go from here?Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Here? Hopefully, we can make progress. After all, that’s the whole purpose of society, isn’t it? It’s going to take some hard work to tackle the issues confronting sports, both professional and college, today. The sports journalism industry owes a profound debt to Howard Cosell for making us realize that there are stories behind the scores. I realize I am omitting such figures as Frank Deford, whose insightful sports journalism has continued the traditions of Howard Cosell. However, the majority of sports journalists today are content to tell the scores, show the highlights, and joke about the outcomes. My fear is that the world will soon be full of Harold Johnsons, and we will have forgotten Howard Cosell.

Call ahead for quick pickup

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

The game of the week had to be ours. In perhaps the last time the Thundering Herd will ever invade Johnston Gym, the never-say-die Wildcats snapped Marshall’s seven-game winning streak with a thrilling 79-76 victory. The Cats, still hanging on to second place in the conference, kept their hopes alive for a shot at the championship. Marshall (8-2) leads Davidson (8-3) by only a half game. The team to watch down the stretch is Furman. The Paladins have won three out of their last four and are tucked neatly in third place at 7-3. Furman’s most recent win came Monday with a 67-66 squeaker over Appalachian State at Boone. Gary Churchill scored a layup, as a steal set up the final possession with 21 seconds remaining. The fourth-place Mountaineers, who had won six straight, dropped to 5-4. East Tennessee is holding fifth place with a 6-2 record. The Buccaneers have been hanging tough with some good teams. They lost to Furman 91-89 in overtime and to Marshall by only five. However, last week, they did come away with a 97-90 win over The Citadel.

The disappointment of the year is Tennessee-Chattanooga. The Moccasins are 14-8 overall but they are struggling in 5-4. Two of UT-C’s tough losses have been to Marshall, 95-94 in overtime, and to VMI, 68-61. VMI, Citadel, and Western Carolina make up the bottom three of the conference, respectively. Until Monday night, VMI hadn’t been playing that badly. The Keydets beat Tennessee-Chattanooga, took Marshall to OT in a 95-91 loss, and beat Davidson 59-55. Monday, they were trounced 77-61 by East Tennessee. The Citadel has lost seven out of its last eight and is in eighth place. Western Carolina (1-9) moved into last place by losing its last four in a row. It’s a crazy conference. The teams are so inconsistent that it is very common for one team to lose to somebody, say VMI, and then turn around and beat somebody like Marshall.

Located in: NORMAN LANDING SHOPPING PLAZA 1/2 mile west of the new Food Lion on Rt. 73

Around the Southern Conference

Cats hang on to second place

Call 892-9603

$1.00 Hoagie

Buy one of our great 8" Hoagies and get a second one for $1.00 + Tax with this coupon through March 15, 1988. Not valid with any other offer.