Friday, September 9, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN 11

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to
the following guidelines:

- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.
- All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Monday.
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
If you write something that makes you look really, really stupid, we’re not going to pull your head out of
the noose.
- The editors will attempt to verify factual information contained in commentaries, but in the final reckoning before God, lawyers,
administrators, or other angry readers, fault will lay with the writer of the piece.
- Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
- The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which
represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic. Mere whim is also a right
reserved by the editors.
- All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following
information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and field of study (or profession).

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Wightman, Business Manager
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
John Gillikin, Inside Art Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
David Host, Opinions Editor
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Margaret Carroll, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Section Production Editors

Do ya think Dukakis is “Zorba the Clerk”?
Do ya think the Bush/Quayle ticket has the beginning of a good baseball team: a Yankee and a Dodger?
Do ya think the greatest danger to America is Communism?
Do ya think the greatest danger to America is a growing number of economics majors?
Do ya think you really should have housing sometime this semester?
Let someone know! Write in to The Davidsonian! Davidson College’s weekly journal of news and opinion.

A guarantee

A move toward getting a permanent roof over the head of displaced Davidson seniors was made this week in the
guarantee obtained from the Barger Construction Company. The guarantee may not be all sweetness and light, however, and should be
examined closely. The last major building ventures completed on this campus were Akers, Irwin, and Knox.They are mammoth cinder block
monuments to the danger of rushing to get projects done near or on deadline. Blueprints and a quick look through
the construction site indicate that the new dorms should escape (mercifully) the cheery prison cell-like ambience of Irwin, Akers, and
Knox. But the presence of appliances, real walls, and real plumbing in the new structures will make speedy completion with
adequate quality that much more difficult to obtain. If it turns out that quality must be sacrificed to meet unrealistic
deadlines, this completion guarantee may turn out to be a mixed blessing indeed. It is reassuring to know that some
think construction is ahead of schedule. “A project this size would usually take 10 months to a year to complete,”
explains Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze. If planners knew that the project should take that long, then why not
allow that long for it to be done? Those living four to a lounge are likely to take small comfort
in the knowledge that their rooms are actually being completed ahead of schedule. My goodness, if this project were given
the time most projects like this need, it wouldn’t be done until February or April!

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College in a kung-fu grip.

This week, we are starting a classified advertising section, and where better than here, the best-read part of the newspaper?

MUFFI: Hugs and kisses forever!! Remember the BEEECH! Love ya! Tootles!!!

WANTED: Good men for a posse. Need to settle a housing score. SWM, unsure of self and usually afraid of
women, ISO aggressive SF to discipline me. Call John at -6110.

News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Margaret Carroll, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage,
Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Kevin Dunn, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage,
Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, John
Mullis, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Michael Schill, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce
Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Kevin Michael, D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.

Circulation Staff: Holme, give me the list!

Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Bene Harris.

Now by God, that’s a staff!
