Features By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Belk Dormitory stands as a memorial to the phenomenal success and character of businessman and Davidson College trustee William Henry Belk. Armed with a talent for buying and selling, the ability to take risks, and a strong belief in moral character, Belk built an empire of 400 department stores. He strongly influenced the Charlotte area through the foundation of over 300 church buildings, public service buildings, and contributions to colleges.

Merchants became vital to the Southern economy in the years following the Civil War. While growing up in this environment, Belk chose his future career: “When I grew up and got into business for myself I was going to be a merchant,” he later said of his childhood dreams. At the age of 14, he set about fulfilling his vision. Belk took his first job at the B.D. Heath general store in Monroe, where he worked for a “decent” wage of about five dollars a month. At age 25, his responsibilities had increased to the point where he was in charge of ordering merchandise for the store and was considered indispensable to his employer. But Belk didn’t stay around much longer; he decided that it was time to go into business for himself. With $1250, he rented a space, bought goods, and opened his first store, the New York Racket.

Belk’s success sprang from his adoption of policies which were virtually unknown in the post-Reconstruction South. He announced that the New York Racket would accept only cash, and he put price tags on each item, refusing to change his prices no matter how much the customer argued, pleaded, or begged. These sorts of practices were unheard of in days when farmers were accustomed to buying on credit and haggling over the price of every tin of biscuits or ten-penny nail. It turned out that people did like knowing exactly how much they’d have to pay for something, and Belk’s risks paid off: the store grew to be an enormous success, making 400% profit in its first year.

Belk slowly expanded his operations, creating a chain of stores called Belk and Bro. Each store functioned on its own under a trusted head appointed by Belk himself. By the time of his death in 1952, Belk’s had become “the largest family and management-owned and operated retail organization in the country.”

Belk was a great philanthropist, and one of his greatest contributions was the gift which led to the construction of Davidson’s Belk Dormitory. The donation was announced in 1949 at the opening dinner of the Davidson College Development Program’s campaign for $2,500,000 (a not inconsiderable sum in 1949) to enlarge Davidson’s endowment fund and greatly improve its physical facilities. Irwin Belk, one of Belk’s sons and a Davidson alumnus, addressed the dinner: “It is my privilege to announce that the Belk family and business associates are making plans to sponsor the project for a new dormitory at Davidson College to be known as Belk Residence Hall, and are actively seeking the favorable consideration of the several Belk store corporations in the furtherance of this needed addition to the campus.” The gift, estimated to be worth at least $300,000, was by far the largest single contribution to the development program. The building, which now houses freshman and upperclassman males and the college’s Residence Life Office, remains the largest residence hall on campus.

Good-guy Gibson makes surprisingly good Lethal Weapon By FLORRIE SNIVELY

Isn’t it strange that at the movies, the protagonist can shoot everyone who opposes him (shoot them dead, mind you—not just in the leg), make off-the-wall witty comments, eat ahot dog, and come off as a really sensitive, deep-down nice guy? Seems like a complicated role to play. Clint Eastwood never managed it. But somehow, Mel Gibson does. Guess that’s how you know his character, Martin Riggs, is the good guy. Riggs’ partner, Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover), is also a nice guy. His kids bring him his birthday cake while he’s in the bathtub, and he doesn’t yell at them. He’s gentle with Burbank, his cat. And he isn’t even especially fond of killing people (well, everyone has a weakness).

Of course, even sensitive, nice-guy hero types have their problems. Riggs is a little unconservative. He refuses to worry about his own continued existence when used as a hostage during drug busts. He jumps off tall buildings to prevent strangers from committing suicide. You might say he’s extremely well prepared to die in the line of duty. Murtaugh (rather fond of life himself) doesn’t quite know how to handle his new, possibly unstable partner. At first, he doesn’t act like a nice guy to Riggs. After a while, though, he realizes Riggs isn’t going to self-destruct, and their relationship gets stronger.

The plot seems a little disjointed at first, but elements quickly relate. In fact, the elements tie together so well that I suspect the plot was written backwards—from the final solution to the initial clues. After the first forty-five minutes or so, when everything starts to make sense, there are no real surprises—but the movie holds together anyway. The writer, Shane Black, plays a game of suspense with his audience and does an admirable job. At the first shootout, you expect the good guys all to win and the bad guys all to die. It doesn’t happen. So you go on to the next scene, expecting the good guys to win and the bad guys to die. It doesn’t happen. Even though it’s obvious the good guys will win eventually—after the requisite car chase and the requisite shootout, worrying about when and how generates plenty of interest.

What makes the movie great, though, is the humor. The developing trust and friendship between two unlikely partners on the homicide force could easily become sappy; Riggs’ “insane” comments save it at the last moment. Riggs’ frivolity is reserved for non-crucial moments, and often serves to point up a dramatic or exciting development.

Only one aspect of Lethal Weapon was really bothersome. It seems a little too coincidental that so many characters, good and bad alike, had all been in Vietnam. Murtaugh doesn’t act as though he’s been in a war at all. Riggs’ insanity is blamed on another source—the death of his wife. Obviously, the movie isn’t supposed to be a heavy one, and that’s fine. But since all the implications of all other elements in the movie are drawn so well, it is a little tough to suspend disbelief over the one that wasn’t.

What, exactly, is the Lethal Weapon? Well, it’s hard to miss—it’s Riggs. The allusion is made early, hinted at once later, and then dropped completely. Riggs moves away from being a hair-trigger, and Murtaugh moves toward it. The movie is about a lot more than methods of killing. I think it deserves a better title.

Lethal Weapon will be shown on Friday, January 8 at 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m., in the 900 Room.

704/892-9020
South Main St.
Davidson (Behind Frame Gallery)

VILLAGE TRAVEL

Don't wait until it's too late!! Let your experienced Village Travel Agent find you the best times and the cheapest rates for your Spring Travel - all at no extra charge!!