12 Football Thursday, October 27, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Colgate and elements defeat Wildcats

By BRUCE NEWSOME

Last Saturday, on a cold and snowy New York afternoon, the Colgate Red Raiders dominated Davidson 21-0. The loss dropped the Cats to 0-7 and 0-2 in their premiere Colonial League season.

The real story of the game was the weather. There were three inches of snow on the field at game-time, and the snow continued to fall throughout the game. As coach Vic Gatto told The Charlotte Observer: “I’ve never played in conditions this bad before.” Colgate was able to handle the conditions while Davidson could not. Colgate got 435 yards of total offense while Davidson managed only 33 yards and had minus 10 yards rushing. The Colgate quarterback, in his first collegiate game, completed 21 of 36 passes for 263 yards, while Davidson quarterbacks Peter Hughes and Steve Judge only managed 2 completions in 17 attempts.

The tone of the game was set on Colgate’s first possession. The Cats stopped the Red Raiders on third and 11 from their own 4-yard line but a roughing the quarterback penalty gave Colgate a first down. On third and 22 from their 8-yard line, Colgate got a 41-yard completion, which led to a Red Raider touchdown. Colgate managed another touchdown and a field goal in the first half to take a 16-0 lead into the locker room. Davidson was only able to control the ball for 8:30 of the 30-minute first half.

Colgate completed the scoring in the third quarter. They got a 38-yard field goal and a 2-point safety on a bad snap to the Davidson punter. The safety ended the scoring at 21-0.

In the fourth quarter, Davidson mounted their only offensive drive of the day. Quarterback Steve Judge, seeing his first action since the 1985 season, completed a pass to tight end Jon Skinner to move the Cats into Colgate territory for the only time all day. However, Davidson moved backwards 17 yards on the next two plays and had to punt the ball away.

Davidson travels to Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, Saturday to play the Bucknell Bison, who are also winless in Colonial League play.

BRYANT, from page 10

It was only a matter of time, everyone thought, before Gibson would go down. But Gibson got a 2-2 curveball from Eckersley and drove it into the right-centerfield stands, snatching this victory from Oakland and setting the tone for the Series. Other great heroics abounded: the solo homer by Oakland’s Mark McGwire to win Game Three, the sparkling pitching performance of Series MVP Orel Hershiser in Games Two and Five, and the home run by Hatcher in Game Five.

Traditionally, fans remember the great plays of the fall classics, and, years hence, the 1988 Series will be no exception. In fact, the 1988 Series continues the excitement of baseball’s showcase, as each series seems to do in its own right. The Gibson home run is perhaps the greatest feat of any World Series because it was accomplished under such duress. Of course, it may not be remembered in the same breath with Bill Mazeroski’s ninth-inning home run in the 1960 World Series that propelled the Pirates to victory over the Yankees, but it may eventually usurp the position of Carlton Fisk’s game six homer over the Green Monster in Fenway that sent the 1975 Series to a seventh game. McGwire’s shot will probably not gain the same recognition, simply because the Athletics failed to recapture the momentum. But it was certainly a startling accomplishment that could have easily tilted the momentum of the Series. Hershiser, nicknamed “Bulldog” by his manager, turned in a performance that certainly rivals those ofthe great Series pitchers. What he and the other Dodger hurlers did was diffuse the most powerful offense in the game, allowing both Canseco and McGwire less than five hits in nearly forty at-bats. There was no perfect game like Don Larson’s for the Yankees, but the Dodger pitching was close enough to perfect to bring a 4 games to 1 victory. Then there was Mickey Hatcher, one of the self-proclaimed “Stuntmen” who came off the Dodger bench, formed a rag-tag lineup, and sent the Athletics home for the winter wondering how such a motley group of individual players could make up an effective team. Finally, of course, the factor that probably won the Series for the Dodgers was the chubby, gray-haired, pasta-lover in Dodger Blue, Tommy Lasorda. The man loves his players, and they love him. He sends them out on the field--Rick Dempsey, Hatcher, Dave Anderson, Mike Davis, and John Shelby--believing they can win, and they do. Yes, this is what the World Series and baseball is all about.

REFLECTIONS, from page 10

After a few pitches and a Davis steal, Gibson took Eckersley deep for a dramatic ninth-inning home run to give the Dodgers a stunning 5-4 victory. After Game 1, it seemed the A’s never regained their composure. The Dodgers' victory in the World Series can be attributed to three factors: (1) their pitching effort, (2) their spirit, and (3) Tommy Lasorda. The Dodgers had one of the best pitching staffs going into the World Series. This pitching staff proved itself by holding the A’s to a team batting average of under .200. Furthermore, the A’s two biggest run-producers, McGwire and Canseco, were held to only two hits, both of which were home runs. Going into the World Series, this pitching staff didn’t expect much run production due to the injury of Kirk Gibson. Matters got worse when Mike Marshall and Mike Scoscia were injured during the series.

However, somehow the Dodgers managed to get runs when needed. One surprising Dodger batter who rose to the occasion was Mickey Hatcher. Hatcher, an unlikely power hitter, managed to hit two home runs in his first World Series. When looking at the Dodger victory, one can’t overlook the managerial efforts of Tommy Lasorda. Coming back from two under-.500 seasons, Lasorda brought his team together, forming a type of chemistry which carried them to the World Series. Lasorda was also the inspiration for the Dodgers during the World Series, always keeping them hopeful in the midst of distressing times: the loss of Tudor, Marshall, and Scoscia. Lasorda demonstrated how vital a manager can be to the performance of a ballclub.

FIELD HOCKEY, from page 10

awarded 14 penalty corners to Sewanee’s zero. Last Thursday, Davidson lost 2-0 to the Catawba Indians and this weekend, the Wildcats head for the annual Deep South Tournament at Catawba. The final home game is November 4 against High Point College.

At Wednesday Nights, 7 p.m. November 2
Lee Nagendran & Joan Kirchner
"Parkway"
Melissa Givens
Susie Grant
Robert Austell
128 S. Main St.
Davidson, NC