Monday, November 7, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

George Bush for President
David L. Host

In 1980, George Bush challenged Ronald Reagan for the Republican Presidential nomination as the experienced, moderate alternative to Reagan’s conservatism. One of his campaign slogans touted him as “a President we won’t have to train.” This statement referred to Bush’s wide experience in government, especially in foreign affairs, as a contrast to the relative inexperience at the federal level of two former governors, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. Bush ran for the Presidency in 1980 as the choice of a solid majority of Republican Party leaders as a result of respect for his experience and ability.

Bush’s eight years as Vice President have resulted in the substitution of generally negative images, however. In place of the image of competence and experience that Bush enjoyed in 1980 prevail an appearance of weakness and opportunism, as well as questions about his integrity. As a result, even many potential voters for Bush claim that they are not necessarily voting for the man himself, but against Michael Dukakis, or for the policies that Bush might pursue. An in-depth analysis of George Bush, devoid of media interpretations, reveals a picture more in line with that of 1980, however. The character and competence of George Bush would result in a Presidency that would equal, and perhaps exceed the accomplishments of the Reagan Administration, while correcting some of its failings.

Bush’s opponents, as well as the media to a great extent, attempt to compare the George Bush of 1988 with the George Bush of 1980 unfavorably, so as to discard any information about him outside of his performance as Vice President as irrelevant. They claim that Bush, in a fit of opportunism, discarded his disagreements with Ronald Reagan, as well as all sense of principle, in his intent to be a “loyal” Vice President. They excavate such terms as “voodoo economics,” a term that Bush used to criticize elements of Reagan’s economic proposals during the 1980 primaries, to demonstrate this point.

Those opponents who criticize Bush on the basis of his Vice Presidency misunderstand the Vice President’s role in an administration, however. Whereas a Vice President may disagree with the President under whom he serves privately, his job constrains him from public disagreement, as such disagreement would undermine the President’s ability to implement his programs. Throughout the course of the Reagan Administration, Bush has demonstrated his loyalty in a manner which emphasizes his qualities, rather than any shortcomings. Unlike Administration members such as Donald Regan and David Stockman, who aired their disagreements for personal gain, Bush has subjugated his image to that of the man whom he pledged to serve in July of 1980.

When Bush was confronted with the crisis surrounding the assassination attempt upon President Reagan in March 1981, he refused to promote himself as the one “in charge” through personal grandstanding. He instead quietly and efficiently made certain that the Administration operated smoothly until Reagan could completely reassume his role as President. This refusal to upstage Ronald Reagan has been a continuing feature of George Bush’s Vice Presidency. While a media hungry for controversy and conflict has portrayed this aspect of Bush’s character negatively, such selflessness is essential to effective government. While a healthy amount of internal debate within an administration also plays a critical role in policy making, public strife involving administration members only damages a President’s ability to lead. One only has to look as far as the Reagan and Carter Administrations for illustrations of this fact.

The American people in 1980 and 1984 elected George Bush to serve under Ronald Reagan and his policies, not to pursue his own antagonistic path. Bush has waited patiently to reassert his own

Candidates deserve respect
S. Christopher Kelly

Last week, I had a golden opportunity. Being a well-connected and notoriously partisan College Republican, I decided to go see Senator Dan Quayle at the Mallard Creek barbeque. I was looking forward to it, and, of course, arranging my schedule accordingly. After skipping (what else?) my political science class, I met Boyd Miller in the parking lot outside Richardson. We decided to head straight for UNC-Charlotte, where Quayle would be joined by Congressman Alex McMillan and Mayor Sue Myrick. It was to be a very interesting and edifying day.

Actually, my day started the night before, with the 11:00 PM news. The UNCC College Democrats were holding a protest in front of the Kennedy building. The “vigil,” as it was termed by a newscaster, lasted all night long - in freezing cold weather, not to mention that I’m sure these people had classes the next day. I don’t think their weekends start on Thursday night like ours do. “Oh Lord,” I thought, “what am I getting myself into now?” Boyd and I arrivedAt around 10:00 AM, the Plaza was packed. It was funny, I thought, that I had heard that in order to get a good seat, I should show up at 10:30 AM. I didn’t even get a good place to stand. This brings me to my point. Standing beside me was a throng of UNCC College Democrats holding Dukakis/Bentsen signs, Bob Jordan signs, Mark Sholander signs, and so on. A young lady beside me said that she felt that no matter who was elected, we’d still be poor. She told me that she felt that neither of the candidates addressed the issues, but that both engaged in mudslinging and would probably raise taxes. She also said that she was an avid Dukakis supporter.

A huge contingent of UNCC College Democrats had shown up. Being a Davidson student, it wasn’t hard to figure out that they were not there in a show of support for the Republicans. I had fun reading some of the signs - the slogans read something like this: “Dan Quayle is a sissy rich boy,” “Trouble, Dan? Call daddy at 1-800-WAH-WAH,” and “What was your golf handicap during the Vietnam War?” The last slogan made me think, though. I figure that Quayle’s handicap was probably about the same as Governor Dukakis’ was during the Korean War. The Democrats began to yell “Noriega-Bush,” “billion dollar deficit!” and “No more lies.”

I have my own vision for eight years while performing the role of Vice President as he interpreted it. When he officially received the Republican nomination for President in August, he felt that he finally had a mandate to proceed on his own independent path. While many of his proposals are a continuation of Reagan Administration policy, a return to some of Bush’s more moderate positions which he held in 1980 is also apparent. His concern for the environment, his concentration on finding alternative means to extend government aid, as well as his desire for productive but cautious arms reductions represent such views. His “voodoo economics” comment of 1980 referred not to a disagreement with the fundamental precepts of the Reagan tax cut proposals, but to the idea of some supply-side economists that, despite such cuts, the economy could “grow” out of a deficit. Bush’s “flexible freeze” budgetary proposal represents a responsible first step in Presidential leadership aimed at bringing government spending under control; an aspect sorely lacking in the Reagan Administration’s economic policies. A Bush Administration would concentrate less on ideology and panaceas in policy making. It would concentrate instead on putting the tools in place for dealing with some of the problems that the Reagan Administration has left behind. The Reagan Administration’s policies have been very successful when compared to the failures that preceded them, but George Bush understands that many problems remain which may require adjustments in some policies for their solution.

Opponents have attempted to portray Bush as a product of privilege who has by no merit of his own advanced into governmental positions. They also have claimed that upon leaving those positions, he “left no fingerprints.” Even a cursory examination of Bush’s career refutes such a position. Bush served as the American envoy to China.

See CANDIDATE, page 14

A few comments came from conservative supporters, believing themselves provoked, although most of their comments were directed at being courteous enough to quiet down so that the candidates could be heard. I find it hard to believe that college students, especially the UNCC College Democrats, believe that their opinions are so correct that we don’t need to hear anyone else’s opinions. By being present, they do show their concern for our nation and the issues facing it. By being rude and interrupting the candidates, they show their ignorance, and certainly do not help their cause. I hope that in the future, both the Democratic and Republican candidates conduct themselves much better than their supporters have. In my opinion, both Dukakis and Bentsen have conducted uncivil campaigns, and indeed must share a large portion of the responsibility for their own mudslinging as well as that of their supporters. Somehow, I guess, they do not feel confident enough in conducting a positive campaign that they must dogmatically shout down their opposition. In that regard, Senator Quayle’s comments are not only expected, but appropriate: “You see, they don’t have anything to say. They just babble. They don’t talk about ideas because they don’t have any.”

S. Christopher Kelly is a sophomore political science major from Lynchburg, VA.