Monday, November 7, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

The football issue from a player’s perspective
Kearns Davis

Since I arrived on the Davidson campus some fifteen months ago, it has been clear that the football program, its implications on the Davidson athletic program, and the players involved are not well understood by the college community. Yet not until the recent editorial in The Davidsonian did I realize that the epidemic of mistaken facts extended to those responsible for keeping the student body informed. I speak of three specific examples in the editor’s article.

He claims that “we sacrificed the interests of all other sports to send football over to the Colonial League.” This is partly true, but falls far short of adequately explaining the situation. What actually happened was that the Southern Conference gave us an ultimatum: either we increase the number of conference games per year from three or four to a full schedule of eight, or we drop out of the league altogether, in all sports. We did not have the choice of maintaining the arrangement we had at the time, nor of dropping out of the conference only in football. It was all or nothing. Put simply, our options were these:

1) Play eight of our ten or eleven games per year against Southern Conference teams with rosters of full scholarship players, while remaining ourselves on a need-based scholarship program.
2) Renew the policy, discontinued in the early seventies, of a scholarship football program.
3) Leave the Southern Conference in all sports.

It seems that the author of the editorial understands that the first option was unreasonable, because he says that, “...a school with limited manpower such as ours cannot hope to keep up.” The second was simply unfeasible, as it would have cost the college in excess of $500,000 per year in scholarship money. By default, the last option was the only acceptable one. The trustees did not choose the unfortunate shakeup in the athletic department which followed; it was forced upon them by the Southern Conference.

The second case of misinformation is the editor’s assertion that “Even Division III opponents such as Fordham are beating us decisively.” I find it difficult to understand how a 9-3 game in which we amassed nearly sixty more yards of total offense than our opponent can be called a “decisive” loss. It might also be noted that Fordham finished 10-2 in Division III play last year and will soon be joining the Colonial League.

The last and simplest, but possibly most important of the editor’s misunderstandings is found in his statement that “There is a physical and psychological toll to being so completely outmuscled each week, and our fellow Davidsonians don’t deserve it.” We appreciate the editor’s concern, but we would appreciate it more if our feelings were not used without license to support the thesis of someone else.

We do not deny that there is a problem in the football program—we are not winning. Yet all the rhetoric and verbal volleyball in the world will not solve it. In a speech given on April 10, 1899, Theodore Roosevelt said, “It is not the critic who counts, not the man who points out how the strong man stumbled or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena; whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs and comes up short again and again; who knows the great enthusiasms, the great devotions, and spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievements; and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly; so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither defeat nor victory.”

There are nearly seventy players, nine coaches, and several managers and trainers working very hard to bring success to the Davidson football program. Please, we do not need your criticism, we need your support.

Kearns Davis is a sophomore from Winston-Salem, NC.

Football team needs your support, not criticism
Harry Schiavi and Andy Tysz

The following was addressed specifically to the Editor.

We are sorry to hear about your obvious dissatisfaction with our football team, and would like to invite you out to one of our practices to help us in our endeavor to win. We are also sorry to hear that you don’t feel that we are physically able to play with the other teams in the Colonial League. It is apparent that we are football players and we are very upset about the editorial about...our team. We are writing this letter to question your knowledge, or lack thereof, of football. The so-called decisive victory of Fordham over Davidson was a 9-3 struggle with a team that was in the playoffs last year and will join us in the Colonial League next year. Not to mention that had you seen the stats, you would realize that they were dominated in every aspect of the game. Despite the fact that some powers in the league still have a great number of scholarship players (e.g., Holy Cross), it may interest you to know that the Davidson College defense has been the number one ranked defense in the league for more than half the season. How’s that for an “all-time low?” We wish we could have the luxury to proceed, but since we are not editors and do not have the whole back page of the Davidsonian to express our first-hand knowledge of the game, we realize that if we go on, our opinions will not see print. And we would like to thank the people who really do go to see the games for their support, and promise them nothing less than one hundred percent all of the time, because that is how the game is played. Harry Schiavi and Andy Tysz are two disgusted football players from Wilmington, DE and New Port Richey, FL.

From BUSH, page 12

All parties involved, Dukakis’ plan to move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem would touch off a new round of violence—especially against America. Dukakis’ rhetoric about the “dangers” of foreign investment in the U.S. adds yet another element to Democratic protectionist sentiment, highlighting another of his foreign policy shortcomings. To borrow a line from Will Rogers, protectionism is like Communism; it may sound like a good idea, but it just doesn’t work. We live in an interdependent world, and George Bush recognizes the importance of free trade in that world. While it is true that some other countries take advantage of our open markets, sheer retributive revenge is no way to deal with them. I would compare using protectionism to prescribing death as a cure for disease. Protectionism didn’t work during the Depression, and it won’t work now.

Granted, by many standards, few Americans are happy with their choices in this year’s Presidential election. As a recent “Shoe” comic strip put it, the two main questions of the campaign are “who is the best man for the job?” and “Why isn’t he running?” Nevertheless, either George Bush or Michael Dukakis will be sworn into the nation’s highest office on January 20, 1989. As far as the President’s roles as commander-in-chief and chief author of foreign policy are concerned, let us hope that George Bush will take the oath. Warren Cooksey is a freshman from Raleigh, NC.

From CANDIDATE, page 13

At the most sensitive period of the American-Chinese rapprochement in the mid-1970s, he served as a voice of integrity as Chairman of the Republican National Committee during Watergate, when such integrity was in short supply. Concerning the charge that Bush “was born on third base and thinks he hit a triple,” one must remember that Bush left the comforts of his upbringing twice; once to become the youngest American fighter pilot in World War II, and a second time to pursue his own record of hard work and achievement in the Texas oil business. Bush re-established the credibility of the CIA as its director when such credibility had been severely questioned. Certainly, Bush did not serve as a voice of grand innovation or personal boisterousness during his tenure in these posts. In each case, however, he asserted competent, behind-the-scenes leadership in circumstances of great difficulty.

The Presidential term beginning in 1989 will present difficult problems to the winner of the election on November 8. It will not be a time suited for a man who believes in his own self-promotion, or who believes that he has all of the answers to the nation’s problems. America needs a man having the personal strength and competence to pursue solutions to its problems, while preserving the progress of the last eight years. I urge all voters in the upcoming election to look beyond the charges of “wimp” and “lapdog” that have surfaced in the past election to see the true character, commitment, and ability of George Bush to lead as President. These traits are represented in the record beyond the media images of the last eight years. David L. Host is a history major from Lexington, KY, and is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.