Cats tame Thunderin’ Herd, page 6

Volume LXXVIII, Number 14

The Davidsonian

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, February 10, 1988

Weekend vandals destroy Patterson Court lampposts worth $6,000

By TRIPP HELMS

Vandals destroyed six lampposts formerly located near the PIKA and SPE houses last weekend.

The incident is still under investigation, according to Director of Public Safety Jackie Hughes, and no one has come forward with information on the matter.

Hughes does not understand why students insist on damaging the lampposts. “They [the lampposts] are put there for the safety of the students,” he explains.

Replacing the lampposts will cost $6,000, which makes this incident the most costly episode of vandalism the college campus has suffered since $20,000 in damage was done to a sculpture in 1986.

The posts are so expensive because they are made of cast iron, which cannot be welded when broken. A post must be dug up and replaced when it is damaged.

Vandalism has been decreasing over the past few years, but Hughes reports a sharp increase this year.

This increase displeases Dean of Students Will Terry. “I thought we had gotten over this,” he said.

Terry has decided in this case to turn the matter over to the Honor Council for action if the guilty students are found.

The Code of Responsibility includes penalties for vandalism ranging in severity from a warning, censure, probation, a fine, community service, restitution, and suspension.

Similar incidents of vandalism in 1985 to lampposts on Patterson Court were attributed in part by Terry and Residence Life Director Tom Jennings to alcohol abuse.

“I don’t know what the cause is,” Terry was quoted at the time. “It just doesn’t make any sense. It’s sort of like burning your own ghetto.”

Jennings at the time said, “Mostly men are the ones who vandalize, and it’s usually men who have been drinking.”

Students with any information about the incident should contact the College Police or the Dean of Students’ Office.

The awesome devastation: Eight $1,000 lampposts (including two broken last month) haunt the Physical Plant’s “Lamppost Graveyard.”

Dole, Dukakis win mock election Ortmayer closing gap, only 22 points behind in polls

By ANDY NILSSON

On the day of the Iowa caucuses, February 8, 1988, a mock election for the Democratic and Republican nominees for President was conducted in the foyer of Chambers. Kansas Senator Bob Dole and Massachusetts Governor Mike Dukakis won the top spots in the Republican and Democratic parties, respectively.

The balloting took place from 11:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., and both students and faculty were invited to participate. Of the 173 persons who voted (11.38% of the total student-faculty population at Davidson), 82 voted Republican (47.39%) and 91 voted Democratic (52.6%). Ballots for each party’s candidates were marked with the names of those candidates who have formally announced their candidacies, and write-in votes were permitted.

Following are the results of the mock election, which was administered by the Davidson College Students for Dole:

Republicans
Bob Dole: 52.44%
George Bush: 30.49%
Jack Kemp: 6.1%
Pete du Pont: 4.88%
Pat Robertson: 4.88%
Alexander Haig: 1.22%

Democrats
Mike Dukakis: 24.17%
Jesse Jackson: 15.38%
Al Gore: 7.69%
Gary Hart: 7.69%
Richard Gephardt: 5.49%
Sam Nunn: 2.19%
Bill Bradley: 1.09%
Dr. Louis L. Ortmayer: 2.19%*

*This dark horse from Davidson promises to make waves at the Democratic convention.

The presidential mock election was administered fairly and objectively by Students for Dole and represents a random sample of the Davidson College student-faculty community.

Thomas Jefferson, third president of the United States, received one write-in vote.

News:
Interview with Pulitzer prize-winning author, columnist Edwin Yoder.
Page 3

Entertainment:
Bruce Plourde interviews Aloha Summer star Chris Makepeace. (Yes! He really did!)
Page 4

Sports:
Wrestlers drop three tough matches.
Page 6

Opinions:
The Gay Support Group supports respect for homosexuals.
Page 9