Thursday, THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

Latin America first

Why should Davidson institute programs of study in Russian and Chinese? The College has managed over the past few years to establish an excellent South Asian Studies program and is discussing the possibility of moving in new directions. The next step, however, should be to the South and not to the East.

Davidson has the potential to establish an excellent Latin American Studies program right now using resources which the College already possesses. The First Annual Conference of the Dean Rusk Program drew upon these resources the year before last by organizing discussion groups, led by faculty members, which analyzed different aspects of the Latin American experience. Professors in the departments of anthropology, economics, political science, religion, and Spanish have the kind of experience and academic credentials which, when combined, would build a superior interdisciplinary program. Furthermore, the Center for Special Studies has brought several scholars from Latin America to Davidson as visiting professors in the past several years.

We cannot realistically hope to start from scratch and compete with other schools’ Soviet and Chinese studies programs within the foreseeable future, even with considerable financial support from the Duke Endowment. And we should not move in new directions while neglecting the inherent potential for excellence which we currently possess.

Clamming up

Most people are afraid of the press. It’s not something you’d expect, especially in a society that professes such devotion to freedom of expression and the interplay of rational thought. Still, if you try to edit a newspaper in a community as small as this one, odds are you’ll soon discover that the great majority of people are very apprehensive about any publicity they might remotely perceive as being “negative.” A few are downright scared of seeing their names or ideas in print under any circumstances.

You can’t help noticing this when you’re trying to put together a newspaper. Time and again, promising stories fall apart because the people involved simply don’t want to discuss anything, or because they’re nervous about the implications of a full-blown news article. This is understandable, of course. Reporters are dangerous people. You tell them something, they write it down, and if other people don’t like what the newspaper prints then you have to answer for it. Still, it’s troubling to realize that most people naturally consider the press to be their adversary.

It would be impossible to count the number of times that people have prefaced their remarks to us with words like, “I don’t want to see this in print,” and “we really think you ought to wait on this story.” If individuals can appear nervous, then campus groups can seem to approach something close to collective paranoia. Patterson Court is the best example, of course; it’s been immensely frustrating to deal with people who assume that we operate only in the “interests” of our eating houses and fraternities, who adopt a confrontational manner as soon as they find out what Greek letters we wear. It was a real shock to discover this. We never imagined that feelings on the Court were so tense and strained, that people would be so ready to pounce on us for even the most minor affront, intentional or accidental.

The problem isn’t too hard to identify. People simply tend to take themselves and their organizations too seriously. The Davidsonian included.

With this issue, The Davidsonian ends publication for Winter term, 1987-1988. This issue also represents the end of the editorship of Mark Chen and Keith Finch. Publication will resume in March under the direction of the new editor-in-chief, Tom Moore.

The Davidsonian is published at irregular intervals during the school year by the students of Davidson College. You can expect a more definite publication schedule next year; rumor has it that Tom’s going to be importing Japanese management styles to get the paper out on time. Apparently, he’ll be using techniques like early-morning group exercise sessions, “work-brigade” productivity groups, and morale-building saké toasts before attacks on carrier task forces.

Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge,Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Jennie Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

— COMPUTER CENTER —
Please Take A Number
Now Serving * 1036

Congratulations To the Davidson Students:

Congratulations on your fine effort in helping us to pull off the Big Win against Marshall on Monday night! That was tremendous participation on your part—in fact, it was the best and most vocal student group that I have seen in my seven years as basketball coach at Davidson. You deserve as much credit for the victory as our team. I want you to know that I consider you a part of the team.

We have three more home games this year and they are all big Southern Conference games. We must have them to win the League. They are February 18 Furman (Senior Appreciation Night), February 27 Appalachian State, and February 29 ETSU. I realize that your spring break begins on the 26th; however, I want to encourage you to stay for the ASU game on that Saturday night—we need you.

Again, congratulations—you are the greatest. You just outdid the Duke student body.

Sincerely,
Bobby Hussey
Head Basketball Coach

Dinosaurs

To the editors:

A sixth-grader at a camp I worked at over the summer found a copy of a National Geographic that had a picture in it of two cows mating. He thought this picture was very funny, of course, and showed it to a bunch of other boys who giggled over it, too. I didn’t see the humor in it, but then again, what do you expect from twelve-year-olds?

I was reminded of that scene when I saw a flier in my dorm advertising a Valentine’s Day party. The flier pictured a pair of dinosaurs mating and included a quotation about one man being able to inseminate thousands of women.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, John Harris, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Casanova, Shannon O’Shields, Florrie Snively.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme Orrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Production Staff: James Hendrix, Buddy Holly, Janice Joplin, George Michael, Keith Moon, James Morrison, Ritchie Valens, Sidney Vicious.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

Maybe my femininity should have been offended. Maybe I should have huffed off in a flurry of righteous indignation. Maybe I should have thought this was the type of thing that leads to all the immorality in society. Instead, I just thought the whole thing was really tacky. We look like adults here, with our prestigious liberal arts education and all; I guess that’s why I’m surprised that some of us still get a kick out of putting up posters of mating dinosaurs. I know that most of the males at Davidson have managed to get past puberty. But for those who haven’t, I’d like to ask you to keep your adolescent attitudes about sex to yourself.

Lucia Kendall

Union Board

To the Editor:

I would like to respond to the letter in last week’s Davidsonian that was contributed by the Union officers. I commend them for responding to the previous letter and not just relying on the hope that all would be forgotten in the end-of-the-term crunch and exams.

When I read their description of the incident as an “unfortunate misunderstanding,” I was relieved. I had been so disillusioned about the Union by the previous letter that I was hoping some undisclosed facts would come to light and explain the officers’ reasoning. Unfortunately, this was not the case for me.

I question the implication that the officers were acting in order to appoint the best chairpersons possible. How could a team that showed no previous interest in a committee, never talked to the previous chairperson, and was not fully aware of the committee’s purpose do such a better job than two enthusiastic individuals who had put a lot of time into making plans for next year and discussed them with the current chairmen? Was it worth alienating two people who were excited about the Board, and earning bad press for the Union?

I also have to question the integrity involved in choosing to use an unpublicized policy of recruiting for Board positions and leading the sought-after person to believe that no one else had applied for the job. If this is a policy they feel comfortable with, then why did they ask the new chairpersons to keep quiet about how they had received their job? I hope that the Union Board will choose to act more honestly in the future.

Sloan Alday

To the Editors:

After reading last week’s letter of re-

See LETTERS, p. 15