Friday, March 11, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Bush, Gore victories highlight Super Tuesday; Panamanian president forced to resign

By KATHERINE PRICE

Headlining the news March 1-9:

Across the Nation:
Vice President George Bush won almost all of the Republican Super Tuesday contests, gaining more than half of the 1,139
delegates needed to win the Republican presidential nomination. Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole, Bush’s chief competitor, fared poorly with only
eight percent, as did the Rev. Pat Robertson, in third place with less than one percent. Bush’s victories and Dole’s
defeats make the upcoming Illinois contest crucial. If Dole fails to demonstrate his support there, Bush could have the nomination
locked up.

In Democratic Super Tuesday contests, Senator Al Gore, who had concentrated his campaign efforts on the South, gained a major
victory with a total of 340 delegates. Close behind him were Governor Michael Dukakis and the Rev. Jesse Jackson with
respective wins of 337 and 322 delegates, indicating a close battle for the Democratic nomination. Richard Gephardt had a disastrous
showing, winning only his home state of Missouri. Dukakis, Gore, and Jackson lead in the number of delegates won among
Democratic contenders.

Around the World:
Panamanian President Eric Arturo Delvalle was forced to resign last week by the National Assembly, which has close ties to
the military. Violence and instability are rampant in the tiny country, as thousands of protesters demand the removal of General
Noriega, head of the Panama Defense Forces. Noriega has been charged by the U.S. for drug trafficking. The U.S. continues
to endorse Delvalle, who attempted to fire the military strongman, Noriega.

NATO leaders met in Brussels last week, addressing Alliance security. Of particular concern to NATO members is the Soviet advantage
in conventional weapons. Also, the INF (Intermediate Nuclear Forces) treaty was discussed.

Unrest continues in the Middle East as clashes between Arabs and Israelis mount. In Israel, Arab terrorists hijacked a bus,
leading to the shooting of three Israeli civilians by Israeli police. Israel has witnessed rioting and protest from members of
the Palestinian Liberation Organization in the occupied territories of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip during the past few
months.

Ethnic protests erupted in the Soviet Union, among Armenians and Azerbaijanis, resulting in the deaths of 31 people. Tensions among
the more than 100 different Soviet nationalities present a challenge to Communist Party leader Gorbachev’s “glasnost” campaign.

Central American trip stresses region’s politics and religion

By SUSAN PEARSALL

Assistant Professor of Political Science Brian Shaw and Professor of Religion David Kaylor recently returned from a trip to Central
America which supplemented their teachings about the religion and politics of the region. They were accompanied by a group of
11 students and two faculty members on the 14-day excursion, which included study in Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica. The
trip was, according to Kaylor, an “intense experience, carefully planned,” and meant for serious students. While it was not restricted
to those enrolled in the theology course, the trip was meant to be a continuation of it, helping

FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS.
“Are you OK to drive?”
“What’s a few beers?”
“Did you have too much to drink?”
“I’m perfectly fine.”
“Are you in any shape to drive?”
“I’ve never felt better.”
“I’ve had a few too many.”
“You kidding, I can drive with my eyes closed.”
“You’ve had too much to drink, let me drive.”
“Nobody drives my car but me.”

DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIPBoth students and professors apprehend the material covered by “experiencing [the situation] for themselves.”
According to Kaylor, the purpose of the tour of the troubled region was “to try to understand the political situation
in Central America, especially in relation to the conflict in Nicaragua and the peace efforts, the U.S. involvement, and the
relationship between the religion of the area and the political situation.” In order to examine both sides of the political
issues in the three countries, the group had meetings with both government and religious leaders, U.S. officials, and heads of
labor and business organizations. They were able to speak to the editor of a dissident newspaper, a representative from the
foreign office of the Nicaraguan government, and some members of a Sandinista youth organization. They spoke to a leader of
COSEP, an anti-Sandinista labor group.

The group was able to travel into the countryside to meet the residents of the small villages. It was hoped
that this experience would allow them to better understand the inhabitants’ reactions (especially religious) to their suffering. They were, according
to Kaylor, generally exposed to both sides of the issues. Senior Caroline Craig’s impressions of the three countries place Guatemala
at the bottom in terms of human conditions. She describes it as having “an aura of pervasive fear,” as well
as extreme poverty and poor nutrition. Nicaragua, on the other hand, appeared less hard-pressed, although it has a terrible economy
and other hardships brought on by the war. Costa Rica, she claims, resembled the United States much more than the
other places visited.

The villagers of all three countries, interestingly, were “exceptionally welcoming,” and seemed flattered that Americans would want to see them.
Even those who were suffering the most “seemed to hold on to hope; above all, they’re alive,” she adds. While
the students were unable to meet with Nicaraguan contras, they did speak to some businessmen whose vested interest in private
property led them to support the rebels in order to avoid the loss of their capital to communists. Students also
met with a sympathetic group of Guatemalans. Kaylor believes that very few Nicaraguans want the contras to win, because few
actually believe that a contra-established government would be democratic. They feel, he says, that a contra victory would put them
“right back in the same position.” In addition, he says, most of the Nicaraguans with whom they spoke believe that
the contras cannot survive without U.S. aid.

According to senior Sarah Payne, the hardest thing to deal with for the concerned student is the apparent despair of
the situation. No one seems to have any plan that would help ease the suffering of the people, who, she
explains, only want “the right to choose for themselves which course their country will take.” “It’s especially hard to deal
with the fact that our government is so involved in it,” she adds. She describes the trip as a “very
eye-opening experience” which has caused her to ask, “What can I do to help?” Craig summed up, “On some levels,
the situation seems clear, if not easy, but on other levels, it’s intricately complex. It is much less an issue
of right and wrong than of every aspect of being human; it can’t be a political issue, but a human
one.”

Credit First Union loan has a lot of ways to give you credit while pursuing a college degree. New Banking
Power For You. DAVIDSON 892-8861 ©1987 First Union National Bank of North Carolina Banking Offices Statewide Member FDIC
