14 Friday, January 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

After the summit; winners, losers, and candidates

Theodore Bowling

The Roosevelt Center for American Policy Studies asked each 1988 presidential candidate the following question: To what single issue or family of issues would your presidency give the highest priority? The responses shocked me! “No issue is more important than nuclear arms control.” “The arms race is most pressing.” Where are these candidates from? I only wish I could give them a tour of my home state. I want them to explain to a divorced mother of four in a homeless shelter that, “no issue is more important than arms control.” These were my first reactions. Perhaps I spoke too fast, though. Perhaps Americans are obsessed with the concept of nuclear arms control. Maybe these candidates are appealing to the American soul. Has the American public been brainwashed into believing that arms control is at the center of the “moral high ground,” and that it is the remedy for a stressed détente? I am afraid the answer is, “yes,” and I am afraid last week’s Washington summit is a perfect illustration.

I am in agreement with Washington Post Staff Writer David Hoffman when he points out that, “the summit was a success because both Reagan and Gorbachev wanted it to succeed.” Gorbachev needed the political success that his domestic reforms were not achieving. Reagan was eager to show that his military buildup was all worthwhile. Indeed, how could the initiative have failed? The press made it quite clear that the INF treaty would be signed, and who is Ronald Reagan at this sordid point in Republican history to defy the prophecy of the press? Indeed though, if we dare to raise ourselves above the stereotypical criteria that lead us to believe that last week’s summit was a success, we are able to evaluate it from a somewhat more objective perspective.

First, we must take note of the U.S. pre-summit agenda. Among the items on this list were Afghanistan, Central America, ABM Treaty violations, and human rights. Although these issues were orbital to INF, they were, nonetheless, very real administration concerns. They are concerns that either a Democratic or a Republican President would hold. Gorbachev’s agenda, with the not surprising exception of SDI, was much more focused on INF. He knew before he came that he would not have to deal with the administration’s previously mentioned orbital issues. Indeed, he blew off questions regarding emigration almost as quickly as they were asked. As George Will so skillfully put it, “the Soviets are getting détente on their own terms—for free.”

Perhaps both Reagan and Gorbachev should be congratulated for at least two things. First, and most important, is the symbolic nature of the summit and the resulting agreement on intermediate-range nuclear forces. To this end, even ratification is not an issue. The post-war East-West conflict is obviously cooling when the General Secretary of the Soviet Union can speak comfortably to the American public for almost an hour on the same channel that broadcast Monday night football two nights earlier. I will never forget Gorbachev asking his driver to stop so he could step out of his limousine to shake a plethora of outstretched American hands. These were touching moments and ones that, while they lasted, made us question our own attitudes and the attitudes of our leadership. A second congratulations is in order in respect to the verification measures established in the agreement. To a greater degree than ever before.

PROFESSORS, from page 13

would take time away from these other pursuits. Obviously, the only reasonable solution is to hire more professors. Yes, it would cost money; but if Davidson is as committed to academic excellence as its promotions say it is, the money would be well spent. After all, isn’t education our number one priority? Davidson can teach its students better by allowing them to take the classes they want to take while still fulfilling area requirements, by making introductory level courses more available to freshmen and sophomores, and by offering a more thorough range of courses. Davidson claims to strive for quality of education, but by not hiring more professors, it is cheating its students out of the learning opportunities it promises them.

Lucia Kendall is a sophomore from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

CONMESTION 892-9046Both sides will be able to monitor compliance. If the same verification measures are enforced and applied in future agreements, then we have indeed overcome one of the most formidable obstacles to East-West treaties. I refuse to issue congratulations on the grounds that last week’s summit may be a stepping stone to future negotiation. If future negotiations produce similar results, I would prefer that we not participate. I have two reasons, the first of which I have previously expounded upon. The Soviets have shown that they will negotiate only on their own agenda, refusing even to comment on all but the most salient issues (salient in a Soviet sense; Afghanistan, for example, is not). The second reason can be linked to the misconceptions of the American public. As I have stated, candidates and voters alike are infatuated with the issue of nuclear arms control. Just how far we are willing to go and how much we are willing to sacrifice may become a very important question. Could it be that even Ronald Reagan, the bulwark of hardline diplomacy, is turning away from his ideology simply for a somewhat brighter legacy or perhaps a campaign year political strategy? Reagan has stated clearly that arms control would not be contingent on any improvement in Soviet behavior anywhere in the world. Certainly, this is a “lame duck” Ronald Reagan. I do not find Caspar Weinberger’s comments regarding Reagan at all humorous: “He is a candidate. He’s trying to get votes in a literal sense of the word. Someone told him, apparently, that he is running third in Iowa—just ahead of ‘none of the above.’”

Between the President, the press, the public, and the candidates, we seem to be on a crash course for unconditional nuclear arms reduction. Why is this bad? First of all, we are faced with the somewhat hushed threat of Soviet conventional superiority. Just how superior are they? In Europe alone, they outnumber NATO forces three to one. They are so far numerically superior to NATO forces that nuclear weapons are not even necessary in their battle scenarios. On the other hand, those of us who understand NATO’s Air-Land Battle Doctrine know that nuclear weapons are integral and that we reserve the right to first use. Be assured that Soviet military leaders got a good laugh last week as the Air-Land strategy began to crumble.

A second reason that we should oppose unconditional reduction is that nuclear weapons are one of the only bargaining tools in our negotiations. They are the diplomatic key to our future success in regional negotiations, human rights issues, and other important issues which were neatly ignored in last week’s summit. If the Soviets will not attend conditional negotiations, then the stalemate in Europe resulting from the U.S. nuclear threat will simply continue. As dangerous as it may appear to Western eyes, the nuclear stalemate has rendered the billions of Soviet dollars spent on the militarization of Eastern Europe completely useless. We must not allow ourselves to believe that nuclear disarmament is mutually advantageous.

What can we say about the candidates who center their campaigns around such unanalyzed ideologies? If they want some good ideas for issues, have them come to Alabama and I’ll show them some issues. Perhaps, though, Mr. Bruce Babbitt has hit the nail on the head with his answer to the question regarding the most important issue in this campaign: “the welfare of our children.” Keeping the future of our great country in mind along with the lessons learned at last week’s summit, let us strive to elect a leader who is unconditional only in his loyalty to the nation he serves.

Theodore C. Bowling is a senior Political Science major from Troy, Alabama.

Frozen Yogurt - Sandwiches To Go - Imported Beer - Wines - Cheeses - Coffees - N.C. Pottery - Gift Baskets

Open for Lunch 7 Days a week
Check Our Daily Specials
128 N. Main St.
704/892-7521

Opening on Wednesday Nights until 9 p.m.
Live Entertainment After 9 p.m.

SPECIAL
Monday---Thursday
12 in. with 3 toppings - $6.50
16 in. with 3 toppings - $7.75
- not including extra cheese -
Mon. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sun. 4:30 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Delivering to Davidson College Free