EXTRA Tuesday, October 11, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

POLICY, from page 1

Chapel Hill adopted a gender-blind policy several years ago, which has led to freshman classes being 59 to 60 percent female. “I don’t think there was any appetite for such an outcome,” says Batten.

“Chapel Hill is clearly the exception to what has gone on,” says Gardner. “What we did is take the list of the 100 best colleges and look at the sex ratios and look at the policies in place. There were only a few that became predominantly female. The view that suddenly we’ll be overwhelmed with women will not pan out.”

“We are moving not toward sex-blind admissions but toward nondiscrimination in gender,” Gardner said. He cited athletics, Scholastic Aptitude Tests, and activities as sources that colleges cannot help but take gender into account. “It’s dishonest to say otherwise,” he added.

One strident critic of previous quota plans and of the new strategy is Davidson philosophy professor Robert Maydole. “We would be better off with a policy that doesn’t mention the sex of the applicants,” he said. “I’ve heard that sex is supposed to be relevant, but I haven’t seen any compelling arguments in favor of it so far. If we had a sex-blind admission, we would get a distribution close to the distribution in the general population. I don’t see a point in engineering it, especially when nature would take care of itself.”

Maydole said he was perplexed by a sudden alteration in policy at the Trustee meeting. “I didn’t even know that a change in policy was being considered. I would have hoped that people who care, who are concerned about policies, would have been consulted,” he said. “In that sense, I was called up by The Charlotte Observer at 4:30 Friday afternoon and the reporter said, ‘What do you think about the policy?’ It’s not something the faculty was given a chance to comment on. They were allowed no input as far as I know.”

Maydole theorized that the faculty would recommend a sex-blind admissions policy if asked. “It’s been quite a while since the issue came up, but my guess is that it would receive overwhelming support. I could be wrong. It’s a guess based on the increasingly progressive nature of the faculty.”

“Why not just say, we'll take people not based on sex or creed, but based on merit. Look at selective colleges,” he said. “What do applications look like at places like Davidson? If you pick out any, with one or two exceptions, they are predominantly male.”

“The truth is, this is a very modest change,” Batten said. “This is not a very dramatic shift of direction at all. I feel very good about it. It is an excellent approach that will serve Davidson’s interests well. It was a good solution that was generally very well received [by the Trustees], and I think the college administration is very comfortable with it.”

Gardner noted that total applications in the United States run roughly 55 percent female each year. “What you have to do is look at the sex ratios and look at the policies in place. There were only a few that became predominantly female. The view that suddenly we’ll be overwhelmed with women will not pan out.”

“The bottom line is, it just doesn’t make any sense. It confuses the whole issue,” Maydole said. “Why we need a convoluted policy statement, and make the world wonder whether we are taking the moral high road, is beyond me.” He noted that morality is one of the three criteria by which faculty members are judged professionally at Davidson. “That we are a Presbyterian college should score even more in being conscious of incorporating moral ideals and theories in the making of policy. That’s not to say that they’re not going to be, but we ought to at least be deliberating and thinking hard about the other questions.”

“We really need to take a look, a careful look at what drives our policy decisions, and the extent to which it is present or absent in our policy decisions. We ought to be vigilant about making our decisions in a moral or ethical context.”

My personal view is that admissions is about admitting people to provide an optimal educational environment,” Gardner said. “We take into account ethnicity, economic background of the parents, schooling, sex, geography. They are all important in bringing in a diverse student body.”a mix of folks. - "It is important to maintain a healthy balance between men and women to provide the best, healthiest campus environment for both men and women."

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
David Host, Opinions Editor
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Cristin Williams, Section Production Editors

Quotas
The hold of rigid quotas over the admissions process has been broken. It’s a step in the right direction, but one that does not go far enough. The reason for keeping any kind of gender system at all is ostensibly to keep in check “sharp year-to-year shifts that would be disruptive to the programs and logistics of the College,” according to the new plan. It seems odd that Davidson College alone cannot cope with yearly changes in enrollment. Many other schools seem to have endured through the years without the benefit of discriminatory quotas. We are a bright enough lot, and we should be able to come up with some solutions.

Dr. Maydole has a good point, and it’s not solely because key staff members have him for class this term. There is no good reason to heavily base admissions on anything but merit. This merit may be determined through a variety of means, but gender should not be one of them. What is the reason for the reluctance of the Trustees to go completely gender-blind? Are we afraid of the Chapel Hill Spectre: 60-40 female-male? Of course, it is also Chapel Hill: the school busy establishing itself as one of the top research universities in the nation. We can’t be too afraid of a similar, Davidson-sized fate. Is it tradition? The ideal of The Davidson Man at stake? Do these seem too childish to bring up publicly? Davidson is chock full of tradition, and it is a valid concern that may be getting swept under the carpet in the hustle. The financial factors have been thoroughly analyzed, the legal considerations scrutinized, the logistical problems looked at. Why not examine the deeply subjective elements of the admission decisions such as tradition? They’re there: They may prove insufficient reasons to stop the march toward sex-blind admissions, but they should be looked at nonetheless.

Ben Craig
Those of us in the Davidson College community were shocked and saddened to learn yesterday of the death of Ben Craig, Chairman of Davidson’s Board of Trustees. Mr. Craig’s list of accomplishments goes for pages, and it would be superfluous to list them here. What should be said, however, is that Mr. Craig served his college family well, first as an able student and gifted athlete, then in various posts spread throughout the college structure, as a Trustee and, finally, as Chairman of the Trustees. Today, Mr. Craig was buried in the college cemetery. He lies forever near his college and he will lie easy, among friends in his debt.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first-class postal rates.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll, in a class by herself.
News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.
Photography Staff: Brett Berry.
Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Malis.
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, Manian Sesh, Mak Gee.