Album Review: James Taylor's “Never Die Young”
By TIM JACKS

“Never Die Young,” the name of James Taylor’s newest album and hit single, is proof that Taylor is still a
master of his craft. He has given his fans the mellow pop/folk sound that we know and love along with
some new sounds that keep his music fresh. His popularity stems from his simple yet interesting instrumental style and his
soft baritone voice which is immediately recognizable, both of which combine into music that is soothing to listen to. Changing
the producer for this album has not changed the overall product that much. Neither has changing most of the musicians
affected his overall style. There are, however, subtle differences from his previous album, “That’s Why I’m Here.”

Taylor seems to be experimenting with new instruments like electronic drum machines and synthesizers which were not heard on earlier
albums. But the new instruments are not obtrusive or immediately noticeable because they blend quite well with Taylor’s unobtrusive voice
and guitar. The first track, “Never Die Young” is, without a doubt, the best song on the album. The melody,
the tight harmonies, the distinctive acoustic six-string all form a clean sound that merits a lot of air-play. My prediction
is that “Baby Boom Baby” will be the next song you hear off the album on the radio. The sound
is similar to “Never Die Young” but is more of a slow-dance song.

“T-Bone” is different, emphasizing interesting keyboards. Taylor’s penchant for syncopation also becomes evident but never too heavy. “Runaway Boy” goes
back to Taylor’s beginnings in music with its country feel, especially with the slide guitar which is, again, used unobtrusively
(something I was surprised to hear used so well since I usually consider the slide guitar an abomination). “Valentine’s Day”
and “First of May” are more experimental in the area of lyrics and vocals. They are interesting to listen to
but will never be hits. “Sun on the Moon” is a real foot-tapper with its sophisticated electronic drum beat. Taylor
proves that a steady back beat can be tastefully used to make a song danceable without letting the drums overshadow
the music.

“Sweet Potato Pie” reminded me of earlier songs of his, like “Steamroller” and “Limousine Driver”: syncopated blues, very clean and
sharp. “Letter in the Mail” is standard JT, but there is nothing to distinguish it from all the songs that
melted together on the “That’s Why I’m Here” album. “Home by Another Way” is about the closest Taylor will get
to putting deep meanings in his songs. The lyrics tell how one should be like the three wise men who
avoided the evil king Herod after visiting Bethlehem and went home by another way. The importance of James Taylor’s songs,
however, are not in the lyrics but in the way the music is presented. His words only contribute to the
way the music sounds—mild, light and singable.

Overall, Taylor has not really changed his subtle style of music. It seems that he’ll keep cranking out good tunes
as long as the public doesn’t get tired of his songs.

---

Friday, April 29, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

COP, from page 4

In stark contrast to the violence incurred, Robocop’s portrayal of the news media, the auto industry, the corporate world, is
swift, sharp and often very funny social commentary. “Big is Back!” croaks a TV ad plugging the 6000 SUX, with
8.3 MPG, as news anchors cheerily report of a “Star Wars” weapons test glitch killing hundreds of people and two
ex-Presidents in California. The report includes footage of CPR futilely being performed on a figure closely resembling Ronald Reagan.

In some ways, Robocop suffers guilt by association. Most movies of this type are terribly written and acted; this film
is full of great dialogue, well-sketched characters (particularly villains) and good acting. Ronnie Cox, who played the straight and narrow
Lieutenant in the Beverly Hills Cop movies, is enjoyable as he flips over and plays OCP’s very evil number two
man, Dick Jones. Robocop is a hero to really cheer for. In one scene, vastly outnumbered by heavily armed drug
dealers, Robo warns that if they do not put down their weapons and surrender, “trouble” will ensue. Somehow, those watching
the film know that this is something of an understatement; he means not just “trouble,” or “trouble,” but “TROUBLE!” and
lots of it. He is what we in the business call a bad-ass.

Director Peter Verhoeven, in his first Hollywood venture, manages to avoid the clichés and obvious plot devices that plague other
movies of the genre. It could be considered a thinking man’s Rambo; the plot twists in Robocop are carefully thought
out and intellectually pleasing. He’s part man, part machine, all cop, and a great movie. Go see it. Yah, we
liked it. Be sure to watch for what one reviewer insists is a cameo by Eddie Van Halen. Robocop shows
Saturday night in Love Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. Your move, creep.

SHAPE, from page 4

The time you spend exercising is going to depend on your own individual level of fitness. It may only be
15-30 minutes of continuous activity for beginners, but through regular exercise the time can be gradually increased. It may be
difficult to get started, but once you’ve finished it leaves you feeling wonderfully relaxed and calm. These are some important
benefits to exercise:

1. It has been linked to improved mental health and is recommended as an aid for depression.
2. Bone mass is better maintained and sometimes...Increased. In a buyers’ market, the digital revolution is bloodless.

3. Exercise is a good method of weight control. It can raise your metabolism to burn calories and fat more
efficiently.

4. It strengthens you physically with better muscle tone and a decreased chance of heart disease. If you are greatly
overweight, it is recommended that you see a doctor before starting a program and discuss your exercise plans.

Send your questions and comments to:
Confidential Health
The Davidson College Infirmary
Davidson, NC 28036

Buying CDs can be a joy for student bargain hunters
By LEE EICHELBERGER

Compact Discs: fad or future? Well, when these little silver things came out several years back, I thought it was
a neat idea that would probably be about as big a thing as reel to reel. Only those who could
afford the expensive players and wanted to convert their music library (even more expensive) would take a dive on this
supposed music revolution. But what did I know? I certainly didn’t know much about CDs. I learned that they had
better sound quality than albums and much better than any cassette; they can hold a maximum of about seventy-five minutes
of music; they’re small and convenient and can last a long time. I don’t say forever because, contrary to what
I was often told, they can be damaged. But in general, CDs last longer than you do.

I never expected CDs to be as popular as they have become. Vinyl, I’m sad to say, is on the
way out. Most music outlets make about 50-60% of their sales from cassettes, about 35% from CDs, and 10-15% from
records. This is a drastic change since only five years ago did cassette sales eclipse vinyl. Some smaller companies no
longer offer new releases on vinyl. And it’s often easier to find older albums on CD than on record. A
good deal of CD sales are catalogue sales. That means older albums that people are replacing. So then, is this
just a boom that will fizzle when collections are full? I don’t think so. The current boom is being fueled
only by the 20% of the population which has players. As players and discs continue to fall in price and
the CD catalogue grows, the boom will boom.

Personally, I got hooked when I would listen to an album on a friend’s CD and then come home to
my own vinyl rice crispy version (i.e. snap, crackle, pop). Plus, there was no hiss. All of us here at
Davidson have some trace of the perfectionist in us, so I’m sure you can understand my obsession with the purity
of digital—I mean Dire Straits or Beethoven turned way up. But what really pushed me over the edge was the
idea that with care, CDs never wear out or lose fidelity. I had already gone through two vinyl versions of
Peter Gabriel’s Security before I got the last one I’ll ever buy on CD.

When I started out with CDs, I already had in excess of 350 records, so conversion was not easy. I
had seen many friends buy a CD player and maybe one disc (they’d get a second one about a month
later). Right away, I knew this wasn’t for me. I’d go crazy listening to the same disc for days. So
what I did was start my collection about six months before I even bought a player. When I did get
my little Toshiba portable, I had about forty-five discs. You don’t have to have that many to get going. But
it is nice to already have your favorite music on disc when you get a player.

When I started buying, I soon discovered that there were several kinds of CD stores. Some stores are just out
to make a buck. These are the big corporate record stores, the national chains. Although they always have something on
sale for $12.99, it’s rarely the disc you want. However, these stores have great prices on the stuff they’re trying
to get rid of. Camelot, for example, always has a table of $5.88 CDs and often has a sale on
midline (older catalogue) CDs at 9 or 10 dollars each. These stores sell the rest of their CD catalogue for
16 to 18 dollars per disc. This is where they make their money.

The Record Exchange in Charlotte, a small regional chain, sells all their CDs at $12.95. Their selection is not as
large as at Peaches or Camelot, but they can order anything you want at no extra charge and get it
in about two weeks or less. Another nice thing about The Record Exchange is that you can take your old
albums or cassettes and trade them in for credit towards new discs. The store also carries a good selection of
used CDs ($7-$10). There are only two problems with The Record Exchange: their midline albums are always a couple of
dollars more than those of the big boys (this is where they make their money); and their classical section is
pretty poor. Camelot on Independence has about the best classical CD selection in Charlotte. They always have a large inexpensive
selection of older (non-digital) and new basic repertoire in digital (costing $5.88-$7.99). An older, talkative, and wonderful man by the
name of Charlie is their Classical expert. He’ll answer any questions and give helpful advice. They have everything from Beethoven’s

See DIGITAL, next page

Making a tough decision is the most enjoyable part of the CD bargain-hunter’s quest. Here, Mr. Eichelberger chooses the lesser
of two evils at The Record Exchange in Charlotte.
