By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

Davidson played it close last week with all games determined by less than four points. Davidson played at Western Carolina
last Thursday. The game was full of mistakes—23 turnovers for Davidson and 20 for Western Carolina. Davidson went into halftime
with a 41-36 lead. The Wildcats increased their advantage to 66-49 with ten minutes left on a layup by Jeff
Himes. Western Carolina pulled within 9 points with about 2 minutes left in the game. Then things started to unravel
for the Wildcats. Davidson missed the front end of 5 straight one-and-one opportunities in the last 2 minutes. Western Carolina
had a chance to pull off an upset in the waning seconds but fell short. Davidson went away with the
win 76-74, largely because of the play of Dick Seidel who came off the bench and scored 12 points. Derek
Rucker scored 21 including 3 three-pointers, while Maurice Gray sank 17 points, and Himes made off with 11 points. Western
Carolina concentrated on stopping Himes and was largely successful but Gray and Seidel came to the rescue. Western Carolina had
balanced scoring with Leroy Gault scoring 18 points, Hutchinson 14, and Bennie Goettie 13 points. Kenny Brown, an ageless freshman,
guided the team with 10 points, 8 assists, and 2 steals.

V.M.I. came to Davidson for a game on Saturday. Davidson played a sound first half shooting 54% from the field
(as opposed to 30% for the Keydets). The Wildcats went into halftime on a high note with Alan Hunter sinking
a jumper just before the buzzer to make the score 33-23. The second half was a different story. The Wildcats
went ice-cold, shooting only 29% from the field in the second half. V.M.I. shot 80% from the free-throw stripe to
prevent any comeback by Davidson. The final score was a V.M.I. win, 59-55. Himes paced Davidson with 19 points, 9
rebounds, and 2 steals, and Rucker contributed 15 points. V.M.I. was led by the Williams brothers, Ramon scoring 13, and
Damon 12 points. Mark Croft was the inside man scoring 14 points and grabbing 10 rebounds.

Then came the big game: Marshall at Davidson. The teams appeared to be tight in the first half with erratic
shooting. Marshall got the early upper hand with a 22-15 lead. Then the Wildcats caught fire with a 13-0 streak
that put them ahead 28-22. Davidson held off a late charge by Marshall and went into halftime ahead 33-29. The
pace picked up in the second half with Davidson shooting 70% and Marshall 60%. Marshall suffered a major loss when
John Taft, a 6-2 sophomore guard, left the game with 12 minutes remaining due to an injury. He had scored
13 points and grabbed 9 rebounds. The game was tight, and at crunch time Hunter took control for Davidson. Hunter
scored or assisted on Davidson’s last six offensive possessions. On the other side, Skip Henderson took command of the offense
for Marshall. Behind 77-76 with less than 30 seconds left in the game, Himes took a shot off a Hunter
assist that bounced off the rim and fell back in. Marshall had a chance to win the game, but Hunter
tipped the ball out of Henderson’s hands, Rucker picked it up, and passed it back to Hunter for a layup
as the buzzer sounded. Himes led the way with 23 points, 8 rebounds, and 2 steals. Rucker had 22 points
including 5 three-pointers, 5 assists, and 2 steals, and Hunter also scored 13 with 5 assists. Seniors dominated the game
for Marshall with Henderson bombing in 27 points with 3 three-pointers. Tom Curry scored 12 points and Rodney Holden scored
9 and pulled down 10 rebounds. Davidson had to overcome a 43-32 rebounding disadvantage.

After the game, Marshall’s refined sportsmanship became truly evident when Skip Henderson refused a request by a group of Davidson
autograph-seekers. The Davidson students, known as the “Comanches,” were somewhat dismayed. According to Anthony P. McCarron, ringleader of the Comanches,
the group then proceeded to the Duke dorm room of Comanche member David Cowie. From Cowie’s perch overlooking the gym,
the...Fans hung a banner depicting Davidson player Jeff Himes in the act of dunking Henderson’s body.

According to McCarron, Henderson and several other young gentlemen from Marshall allegedly ascended to the third floor of Duke where
they confronted the Davidson students, including seniors McCarron, Cowie, Kenny Bogert, and Rich Busby. Henderson and teammate Tom Curry allegedly
entered the room where they were reported to have said, “Why you guys want to start trouble?” The occupants of
the room contended that they had merely been minding their own business, and that they had not invited the Marshall
students to join them on the third floor of Duke dorm. McCarron expressed concern for the state of modern intercollegiate
sportsmanship, as an appeal for an autograph had led to a classless gesture on the part of the young gentlemen
from Marshall. Fortunately, nothing came of the incident, other than a good story which will doubtless add credence to Cowie’s
recent hypothesis that the world has gone mad (See The Davidsonian, number 13, page 14).

Davidson’s next game is Thursday at U.T.-Chattanooga.

Grapplers drop three
By HOLME OLTROGGE

Those fans who happened to see the Davidson wrestling team host Winston Salem State U. (WSSU) last Wednesday will no
doubt agree that the heavyweight match was by far the most exciting one to watch. It did not matter that
the Rams were much stronger than the Cats. Nor did it worry Howard Humphries that Davidson was down 6-40 in
team points. Humphries stepped on the mat facing a heavyweight ready to finish what his teammates had done to the
Cats. As the giant wrapped his huge arms around Humphries, the crowd could see a flattened wrestler in the making.
But, with the experience of being in that situation before, Humphries slipped from the grasp and went on the offensive.
With the advantage of speed and strength, he wrestled the Rams to the mat and spun behind for a takedown.
Thus, Humphries racked up the points while his opponent built up the frustration. Frustration led to anger as the elusive
Davidson wrestler refused to be pushed around by a much heavier opponent. In a business-like manner, Humphries steadily scored on
the WSSU wrestler to the cheers of the crowd. By the end of the third period, the score was 7-2.
And then Humphries turned the Rams onto his back and pinned him for a decisive win.

Unfortunately for the Wildcats, Humphries’ match was one of the only two wins this past week. Tim Heinze took a
forfeit at 177 for the other win. The other wrestlers were no match against the much stronger WSSU team. At
142, Joe Binns lost a very close match due to takedowns. In addition, he lost a point to riding time
to make the final score 7-9.

Again Saturday, the Davidson team traveled to Atlanta, Ga. to meet Georgia Tech. Right away the Cats started out with
a 30-point deficit as they forfeited four of the first five weight classes in addition to the 177-pound weight class.
Despite the dim outlook, there were bright moments. Sherb Sentell had a notable performance at 158 by convincingly defeating his
Yellow Jacket opponent. Again, Humphries won his match at heavyweight. Tim Heinze dropped ten pounds to the 167 weight class
only to succumb to fatigue. Heinze might possibly wrestle at the lower weight class in the Southern Conference tournament.

Last night the Wildcats met the Cougars from Wilkes Community College. This matchup was decided by riding time which was
awarded to the wrestler who could control his opponent for a net total of more than one minute during the
match. Though worth only one point, the riding time can be a crucial one as the Cats discovered. Both Heinze
(177 pounds) and Aengus Channon (190 pounds) lost their matches by this criterion. Joe Binns (142 pounds) took a 7-7
tie, while at heavyweight, Howard Humphries won 2-1 thanks to the extra point. Sherb Sentell started well, but being caught
off guard, he was taken down to his back twice.

This Saturday the Wildcats host Furman and Washington & Lee at 2:00 pm.
