**Commentaries The Davidsonian Friday, April 22, 1988**

"Ignorance of the poor" is better than "ignorance of statistics"

Jan Sculley

I have a few things to say in response to Galo Cabrales’ letter to the Editors about an article I wrote on Central America that appeared in The Davidsonian a couple of weeks ago. In the letter, Galo accuses me of “irresponsible scholarship,” and of ignorance in general concerning the socio-political situation in El Salvador. I admit I made some minor mistakes in what I said about the assassination of Archbishop Romero, but as I will attempt to show, I did use valid statistics and I still believe I presented an accurate portrayal of the violent, unjust, and poverty-stricken reality of most Salvadorans.

To begin with, Galo says that I had no right to associate Major D’Aubisson with or accuse him of plotting and directing the assassination of Archbishop Romero. Galo adds that D’Aubisson was never president of El Salvador, as I said he had been. Although it still has not been proven with 100% certainty that D’Aubisson was behind the whole operation, everything I had read about the assassination (which is more than just one article) connects him to the murder. Also, even though D’Aubisson was never president of El Salvador, he has been head not only of one of the most forceful political parties in El Salvador, but was also at one time the most powerful man in Salvadoran politics. Major D’Aubisson is the man who had probably orchestrated the death of Archbishop Romero. Ex-Ambassador White [former U.S. ambassador to El Salvador] has more than once called him a pathological killer. His rehabilitation was essential to save the U.S. policy makers’ face when the elections they made so much of ousted Duarte from the presidency and put D’Aubisson at the head of the Constituent Assembly. He thus gained control of what was arguably the most powerful position outside the army high command. The largely symbolic provisional presidency went to the relatively unknown Alvaro Magana.

Secondly, Galo claims that 2 million, the statistic I used for the number of Salvadorans who over the past ten years have been killed, internally displaced, or have fled to other countries due to the civil war, is an “exorbitant” number. I’d like to think that the United Nations High Commission on Refugees does not compile false, exorbitant data. My guess is that Galo got his statistics from the Salvadoran government. Governments often reduce figures that reflect badly on them.

Thirdly, Galo asserts that I am an admirer of Liberation Theology and insinuates the ignorance and folly of following it. He interprets Liberation Theology as folly since, as he sees the situation, Liberation Theology helped the Sandinistas gain power, which prevented freedom of religion in Nicaragua. My response to that is two-fold: First, I openly admit I am an admirer of Liberation Theology and feel no shame or ignorance in being so. Second, Galo has accused me of getting the facts wrong, but in doing so he seems to have fallen into that very trap. It is simply not true that there is no freedom of religion in Nicaragua. Christians are allowed to actively and publicly practice their religion, and they do just that. In fact, almost all foreigners working in Nicaragua today are affiliated in one way or another with an organization of a Christian denomination. I do not know of a single Christian denomination that has been expelled or faced repression in Nicaragua.

Before Galo continues to point the finger elsewhere, I think it would be best if he took a long hard look at his own country, where not only Archbishop Romero, but also priests, nuns, lay leaders, and thousands upon thousands of poor campesinos, mothers, and children have been killed for speaking out against what Galo’s own church (the Roman Catholic Church) has denounced as a socio-political and economic system of institutionalized violence and oppression. When I suggest that he take a long hard look at his country, I do not mean to say he should do that from places like Davidson or the ritzy hills above San Salvador. I know he has already done that. No, what I suggest is that he go live in and look at the violent, unjust, oppressive reality of the majority of his people, the poor. I think it is there that he, like others who have already gone, would find that all the books, statistics, and talk about his own country do not amount to much. What matters today is that in a very real sense among the poor of El Salvador, Jesus and all that he embodies: love, faith, hope, and forgiveness, is being crucified daily. From my experiences living amidst and seeing the poverty and suffering of the Peruvian and Guatemalan Indians, I have found that what matters is to do as Jesus said: to be open to learn from the poor, for they are our best teachers. If what I have said sounds naive and ignorant, then I plead ignorance. However, I prefer the ignorance of the poor over the ignorance of statistics.

Jan Scully is a senior Center for Special Studies major from Belmont, MA.

Does Davidson really need two weeks of dry rush?

Philip Motley and Derrick Willard

In a recent issue of The Davidsonian, there was an article concerning the annual review of the Patterson Court alcohol policy which included concerns and suggestions of President Kuykendall and Dean Terry about dry rush. President Kuykendall pointed out that approximately one-half of all nationally affiliated fraternities and sororities have dry rush. Many schoolsare trying to limit legal liability and lessen some serious problems, but we would like to say that what applies to one-half of the national fraternities and sororities does not apply to Davidson (a subject which has already been commented on but which we would like to express a little differently). We all know that the “houses” at Davidson differ drastically from the fraternity or sorority houses on other campuses—members do not live in the house, parties are open, and we technically do not have rush. According to everything we were told until we could go down to the court, Davidson has “self-selection” instead of rush. Of course, no one is fooled—there is rush at Davidson. It exists to the extent that houses (and the rest of the human race) tend to seek out those they think will best complement their group. However, we do not think anyone can deny that one has much more freedom to choose and to be accepted here than at most schools. “Rush” as it exists at Davidson is a lengthy process, one drawn out over half the year. There is plenty of time to get to know people in many different houses, and time to do it when one is sober. At larger schools where true rush lasts a week or two, there is less time to explore all of one’s possibilities or to avoid a hurried rush of parties. We do not think many on this campus would say that they have experienced social pressures anything like those of a larger school during “rush.” Why bring up the issue of dry rush at Davidson if the term “dry rush” does not apply? We would all like to believe that the Davidson student is a cut above, yet we realize that one cannot rely solely on the rationale of students. There is a necessary concern for legal liability of the houses of the PCC. But how can it be said that there is that much more danger during our so-called “rush” than at any other time of the year? Donated kegs are gone, what next? How much longer can our fragile drinking policy exist?

Philip Motley is a freshman from New Bern, NC. Derrick Willard is a freshman from Laurinburg, NC.

Opinions Policy
The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines:
- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.
- All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
- Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
- The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- All submissions should include the author's address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).

Spring Convocation Award Recipients
Sandy Black Memorial Award: Peter George Mangone
Bemer German Language Award: Warren LeRoy Bock, II
James Chapman, Jr. Annual Honor Award: Ronald Craig Carlock and Samuel Thomas Cutting
Jefferson Davis Award: Margaret Marie Bledsoe
Eumenean Literary Society Award: William Pfingst Carrell, Jr.
Douglas Houchens Studio Art Award: William Mathews Hartman
David Halbert Howard, Jr. Chemistry Award: Anne Louise Allen
William McGavock Mathematics Award: David Hine Alyea
Phifer Award in Economics: Warren Tracy Hankins and Lisa Place Stewart
Susan Roberts Award: Elizabeth Ann Kirkland
Thomas Sparrow Award: Robert Paul Zimmerman
Theater Award: Daniel Charles Michaelis, II
Porter Vinson Chemistry Award: Hasan Ahmed Malik
William Vinson Mathematics Award: Douglas Alan Hicks
James Baker Woods, II Memorial Award: James Mark Harris
William Gatewood Workman Psychology Award: Andrea Lynn Diedrich
Alberta Smith De Vane Religion Award: Ann Catherine Blue
Leona Goodell Memorial Award: Muadi Mukenge
Kendrick Kelley Award in History: Gretchen Ferris Schoel
Harry S. Truman Scholarship: Donald Joel Snell, Jr.
Association of American Geographers Honor Award 1988: William Patterson Cumming
Alumni Association Freshman Award: Marion Boyd Gillespie and Mary Adair Woodall
Writing Awards:
- Charles Lloyd Award: Aaron Elkin Taylor
- Windley Hall Award: Curtis Warren Perkins
- Vereen Bell Memorial Award: Sheri Ann Reynolds
Department of the Army Superior Cadet: Catherine Chandler Walters, Charles Sherburne Sentell, III and Theodore Cheseborough Bowling
Tommy Peters Award: Derek Alan Rucker
Rebecca Stimson Award: Amanda Byars Barrett
Dean Rusk Program Award: Uday Lohani and Katherine McNair Price
Shaw Smith Award: Julie Marie Walsh
Charles Malone Richards Award: Justin John Gold Broughton
Agnes Sentelle Brown Award: James Edward Dillon
George Gladstone Memorial Award: Julie Virginia Mayfield
Omicron Delta Kappa:
Class of 1988: Rebecca Breckenridge Castleman, Virginia Blanton Broaddus, John Allen Smith, Deepak Talwar, Linda Ruth Tatsapaugh, Mary Elizabeth Bagley Verner, Katherine Olivia Womble
Class of 1989: Melissa Evelyn Givens, Peter George Mangone, Barbara Lynn Matheny, Julie Virginia Mayfield, David Kilburn Ray, Cecil Francis Whitaker, III
ODK Teaching Award: William Kalley Mahony