Rock for Amnesty
May 7, p.5
Volume LXXIX, Number 7
The Davidsonian
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Student focuses on styrofoam hazards
By MUADI MUKENGE

Should Davidson protest the use of styrofoam products because of their apparent danger to the atmosphere? This question has recently come to the forefront of campus concern as a result of a student’s having brought it to the attention of the college Food Services.

Mary E. Bagley (aka Shawnee), a junior Center for Special Studies major, learned of the problem from a monthly publication of the South Carolina Piedmont Peace Resource Center. According to the article, the manufacture of styrofoam products involves the use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), substances which react chemically with the ozone layer of the atmosphere. The ozone contains molecules made up of 3 atoms of oxygen, which are destroyed by the CFCs. As a result, the sun’s ultraviolet rays, which are carcinogenic, are able to penetrate the ozone layer and are therefore a danger to the human population.

Human beings are not endangered by using styrofoam products as serving vessels; it is only in the manufacturing process that fatal damage occurs. Dupont Inc., a major manufacturer of chlorofluorocarbons, is in the process of terminating the process. In addition, McDonald’s Corporation has stopped using styrofoam cups for commercial sales. The state of Vermont has banned the use of styrofoam in state institutions.

Verner alerted Carl Pritchard, director of Auxiliary Services, at the beginning of the 1987-88 winter term in hopes that the college would terminate the use of styrofoam products. According to Pritchard, the decision to do so involves a complicated process which focuses on the cost of converting to paper products. Such products are more expensive than styrofoam because of the special coating used to cover the porous surfaces. It was in that interest that Leandro Tolentino, Dining Services Purchasing Manager, conducted a comparative cost analysis of paper versus styrofoam products. While individual product prices may differ only by fractions of a cent, mass purchases of the paper products are considerably cheaper. From data listed on the comparative cost sheet, the following were revealed: (numbers are in quantities of x cents per 1000 cups)

12 oz
10 oz
8 oz
Styrofoam cups
Friday, April 29, 1988

The Bio Society's recycling drive was a tremendous success. Those who want to help further can leave recyclable trash at the collection point in the basement of Richardson. Courtesy of Valerie Shaffer ’91

02
018
01
012
.0108
.00833

Converted to cost for a case of 2000:
$40.00
$36.00
$20.00
$24.00
$21.60
$16.66

Pritchard states that what concerns him the most is “having a satisfactory product to use for all purposes.” His priorities are to consider sanitary aspects, health concerns (consumers are not hurt by direct use of the products), and the ease in handling of the styrofoam vessels. Styrofoam meets these needs perfectly, he says. If any change is to be made in the school’s practices, Pritchard continued, it will have to be a business consideration weighing several factors.

Food Services currently purchases styrofoam products from the following companies: Sweetheart, Amoco Products, Dart, and Lily Cups. Verner pointed out that styrofoam is not easily disposable (they are not biodegradable) and environmentalists are faced with the additional problem of how best to get rid of styrofoam once it is used by consumers. The environmental problem which CFCs pose should be a concern to all, says Verner, adding that often the...General population has no such knowledge until concerned individuals disseminate information. She proposes further action: “Students in general should be encouraged to boycott restaurants who still use styrofoam, mentioning perhaps that a competitor (McDonald’s) has stopped using the product for good reason.”

Thieves take $500.00 cash, keys from library over weekend
By GEORGE KURANI

Davidson’s E.H. Little Library was robbed of approximately $500 between its closing time on Saturday, April 23 and its opening the following day. Although there were no signs of forced entry, the intruders managed to make their way into one of the business offices where they located and stole a set of keys used to open the desk of library business manager Mary Wilson, where the money was located.

Chalmers Davidson, college archivist, was the first to notice that the library had been broken into. Upon arriving at the library at 9:30 Sunday morning, Davidson noticed that books had been knocked off of the shelves in the cataloging and acquisitions departments. Since everything had been in order the previous night at closing time, he immediately called Leland Park, director of the library. Park arrived at the library around 12:30 p.m. But when Davidson, who had been working in another part of the library, went back to the scene, he was sure that the offices had not been in such disarray earlier that morning. Park feels that Davidson must have walked in on the thieves while they were proceeding with their work. When Davidson left the room, the thieves supposedly moved additional books.

The police were notified immediately and soon arrived to conduct an investigation. The police were unable, however, to find any fingerprints. To hide their fingerprints, the thieves spread oil on all the door handles they touched, as well as on the desk from which the money was taken. Further speculation has it that the disturbance of the books and the oil spreading were just a diversion intended to lead people to believe that the break-in was less highly planned than it actually was. Since there were no signs of a break-in, speculation has it that the thieves must have had keys to the library and the offices inside. According to Park, they “must have had a pass key and known exactly where they were going since they only greased the doors to the adjoining offices.”

Park said that this is the first such robbery he has witnessed in his 21 years at Davidson. “Such an incident is very hard to understand,” he said, “and I feel irate that anyone would commit such a crime.” “We can account for every pass key from between 6:00 Saturday and 11:00 Sunday,” he continued. Park also added that the average number of years worked by the library staff is over ten years and that he “trusts all the staff completely.” The library is currently changing all of its locks, including those to the copy machines. The investigation continues and as of press time there were no leads. Park stressed that the library welcomes any and all suggestions concerning the break-in. “We live in an interdependent community,” said Park. “We all need to be on the lookout for each other’s safety and help solve such problems when they arise.”