Thursday, September 15, 1988
THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEW DAVIDSON FACULTY, CONTINUED

Anne Sweetser, anthropology
Anne Sweetser, from Boston, has travelled some distance. She has collected her laurels at Amherst, the University of Hawaii, Harvard, and Stanford in that order! Her degrees are comprised of a B.S.C in zoology, a certificate in East Asian studies, an A.M. in Anthropology, and a certificate in language respectively.

Sweetser’s work has taken her to Malaysia, Kabul, Pakistan, India, and Europe. Her special areas of interest are medicine, the position of women in tribes, and the Muslims in West China.

Music in the form of the Basuri (Indian flute) and the western flute holds special interest for Sweetser.

Rob Whitton, mathematics
Rob Whitton, a Charlotte native, is one of the latest additions to the Davidson faculty. But unlike many new members, Whitton is not a stranger to Davidson. He received his B.A. from the home of the Wildcats before going on for his M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of Pennsylvania. In addition, he has taught at Davidson periodically for five years, starting in 1979. During this visit, Dr. Whitton is teaching Calculus 130 and 131, which serve as “a basis for study in chemistry, physics, and statistics.” Whitton is married to Amy Diamond, and they have three children. When he is not teaching, Whitton spends his time at a computer graphics company in Charlotte which he owns and operates.

Rosemarie Tong, humanities
All the way from Williams College...it’s Dr. Rosemarie Tong! Tong is a visiting distinguished professor who is teaching in the humanities department. This semester, she is teaching a philosophy course; she will lead a course entitled “Public Man, Private Woman” next semester. According to Tong, it will be a “look at the different roles and concepts of identity of men and women through the ages.” Not only is Tong an accomplished professor, she is a published writer as well whose books include Women, Sex, and the Law, and Ethics and Policy Analysis. Her third book, Foundations of Feminist Thought, will hit the stands in January.

Tong says she likes the “rhythm of life” here at Davidson. “Everyone has time for people here.”

Virginia Mischen
She is also into camping and photography, and can shoot a perfect bullseye with a Beretta .32 pistol!

Anjali Sharma

As and BS for your parents, and a CD for yourself
Try a Macintosh today—you may win a Sony Discman. Get a Macintosh computer to help with your homework. And if that isn’t enough reason to look at a Macintosh today, here's another: If not for yourself, do it for your folks.

Now that a new school year is under way, we have an idea that'll make both you and your parents happy. Get a Macintosh and you’ll never have to spend another all-nighter retyping a paper or correcting modifiers. You’ll be able to turn out assignments that look as though you bribed a friend in art school. And with an amazing new program called HyperCard—which just happens to come packaged with every Macintosh—you can easily store, organize, and cross-reference research notes to your heart's content.

Enter: September 1st-September 23rd
Computer Services Center
User Services Building

Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Sony Discman is a trademark of Sony Corporation. No purchase necessary. See your campus representative for complete contest details. Prizes may vary from product shown.