Would-be convicts are given a break

The Convict and The Accomplice

Imagine, if you will, two drunk-as-a-skunk dudes on their way back to their dorm after a ravenous night of partying like banshees around threeish in the morning. We were on our way back from one of those “happenin’” “Late Night” bashes at the “Dog House” when we were distracted by a D.C. campus police car outside of the laundry. The glove compartment was ajar and the light from it was like a beacon beckoning unto me. I went up to the car for a closer look and discovered that the door was unlocked. I have no recollection as to what I was thinking, but the next thing I knew was that I was sitting in the passenger seat and attempting to close the glove compartment. Before I had a chance to do anything else (like talk on the C.B.), my accomplice alerted me to the fact that one of Davidson’s Finest was approaching. The two of us took off in a panic and fled back to our dorm in a valiant attempt to escape, but alas, my accomplice was caught and the spineless fish fingered me.

We were both brought in for questioning several days later and, of course, we expected the worst. We had visions of getting tossed in a cell with that “old convict we all know and fear,” you know, the one who loves to eat alone. Or worse yet, we thought we’d get tossed into a cell with some moose who loves young boys. Needless to say, our fears were unfounded and we discovered firsthand that the campus police are truly our friends. According to The Accomplice, the officer was nowhere near as irate as he was that fateful night of our crime. The officer calmly questioned me as to my intentions which I explained to him. He then wanted to know why we ran away after he had told us clearly to stop. I explained to him how we had panicked and had run away without thinking. He then related to us why he had been so angry with us that foul evening. Apparently, an incident from the week before was still etched in his mind. Someone, possibly students, had released the parking brake on one of the Cushman scooters and it had smashed into the laundry causing extensive damage. Since no one has come forward to accept responsibility for the crime, the police can only assume that it was done with malicious intent. Imagine what was going through the officer’s mind when he was chasing those two thugs (us) into the blackest of nights. I’m sure he must have thought that he finally had his men—the butchers who had totaled his Cushman.

I had no vandalistic intentions in mind (neither did The Accomplice) when I climbed into that vehicle; I simply wanted to talk on the radio. I had no idea that I was, in fact, tampering with a police vehicle and being “blind drunk” is no excuse although we did attempt to use it! There was just no denying the fact that it was a moronic move on our part. Yes, it was quite definitely our bad! The meeting with the officer went very well. We were very lucky to get the punishment of writing this article while remaining anonymous. As the sweat rolled down our backs, the officer explained to us our options. We could a) write this article; b) be thrown to the Dean’s mercy; or c) he could charge us with tampering with a police vehicle. It goes without saying that the latter two choices were not particularly savory to us convicts, so we opted for writing this article.

This sort of behavior—tampering with a police vehicle and similar behavior—is quite serious! We are very fortunate that the campus police are so understanding. They appreciate the stress that we are under here at Davidson and that we occasionally need to let off some steam. Imagine what the Davidson party atmosphere would be like if the police were constantly busting up campus parties and slapping the cuffs on all those underage partiers who abound on the court. Parties would be extinct! No one wants that, not even our nemesis, Johnny No Party. There are plenty of things that we are allowed to get away with in our little “wildlife refuge” that we could not get away with in the “real” world. With the numerous complaints that Davidson’s Finest field about them “not doing their job,” they really tire of such disrespectful behavior as tampering with police vehicles. As these complaints and crimes pile up, it is only human nature that they become less and less inclined to give us campus hooligans a break. It is high time that the student body realizes the friends that we possess in the campus police.

Please do not take this article lightly! Sure, the names have been changed to protect the guilty, but these events did indeed take place. For those of you out there who would never even consider such foolishness as tampering with someone else’s possessions, much less a police car, you probably view us as Hell-raisers and foolish. Well, you may be right. Then there are those of you who might have done something like this under similar conditions. Hopefully, this article will dissuade you as you can probably relate to the above events. Finally, I’m sure there are those of you who would pull a stunt like this, or worse, with the intent to destroy someone else’s property. You probably think that we were just two drunken sots who were stupid enough to get caught. Well, I’m confident in the fact that when you are busted and thrown in a cell with “The Viking” that you will appreciate this article. I just hope that it doesn’t have to come to that. Our police friends are fed up with the shenanigans that occur at this place and I’ll tell you one thing—you probably will not have the option of writing an article like this one. So if you have done anything similar to this in the past or plan to do anything like this in the future, please don’t because “Big Brother” is watching and “The Viking” is hungry. Being foolish like us and getting caught red-handed is just not worth the price that you’re going to have to pay. This could happen to you—and it will if you let it. So remember, if you are ever presented with similar conditions, “Just say NO!” Do yourself and the police (your friends) a favor and don’t give them any extra work to worry about!

The Accomplice and I major in undergraduate studies, and our names and addresses have been withheld upon request.

The world’s gone mad; something has got to be done

David Cowie

Introduction: “No one seems to be thinking. No one appears to have anything new to say. Can we call this living?” David Cowie raised these serious questions in a recent interview. His profound philosophy continues to thrill and baffle readers, including myself. Cowie offers the following article in an attempt to enlighten us; but it is only a brief glimpse into the psychological depths of his treatise, “The Question of Life.” If Cowie’s article seems incohesive and fragmented, it is because the conditions of life not only press upon him, they confuse him. He cannot be happy to regard life as a mere series of happenings for him to wander into and out of. There must be more. Mindless assimilation angers him. Somehow the 1980s seem false. Cowie asks rhetorically,“Where is truth?” — Johnny Baghdad.

After returning from a frustratingly worthless trip into Charlotte one night prior to Christmas break, I have concluded that I am sufficiently disturbed enough to write the following ramblings. The goal of my sojourn, if you will, was hockey sticks. Can any of you readers appreciate the helplessness one can feel after checking out nine different sporting goods dealers with titles containing such phrases as “unlimited” and “world of sports” and yet not being able to find any street hockey sticks? I thought that Charlotte was supposed to be the “Queen City!” With a nickname that pretentious, you would think that you could find at least a hockey stick or two.

Has anyone other than I ever watched a local news program here and found yourself asking the following questions: Where exactly is the “Triad?” What is the “Golden Piedmont?” When did someone form the state that we so fondly refer to as “The Carolinas,” and who was responsible for this farce? Why does it snow here on a Thursday and school is cancelled for at least the next four days? It is not so much a matter of not knowing how to plow the roads as it is a general lack of salt. How can we live so close to the “Port City” a.k.a. Mooresville, and not be able to obtain some salt for the roads?

Is there something about Davidson College that steals people’s personal identities? I think that Kenny Bogert’s article on the fraternity system (I’m still unsure why we cannot call them frats!) brought up some great points and hopefully woke up a few people for at least a couple of minutes. I guess that there are just not that many students around here who care to be in the least bit original. Why all the BMWs? Why all the Duckhead jeans? Why are there all those jeans with the holes in all those ridiculous places? Come on people, who’s zooming who here? Those jeans just did not wear out by themselves—we know that you ripped those holes in them—we just want to know, “Why?!”

I just wish that I too had some ugly tie-dyed t-shirts so that I could also be a hipster! Where did we get all these “party animals” who get drunk every weekend and then “pass out” (or is it just fall asleep)? Wouldn’t it be great if everybody owned a “Hard Rock Cafe” T-shirt? If you do not have one already, please pick one up over Spring Break ’88 at your local “happenin’” party place. Maybe we could all wear our “Hard Rock” paraphernalia for lunch and then “Carolina Blue” goodies for dinner for weeks on end.

With so many good colleges and universities in the area, why do 90% of the people adore Carolina? Isn’t it amazing how many Miami and Oklahoma fans have popped up now that they are both powerhouses? How many of you “lifetime supporters” of the San Francisco 49ers have suddenly become Redskins or Vikings fans now that the 49ers got creamed? What possible satisfaction can one receive from being such a “fair weather fan?”

I’m sure by now that my readers have realized that there is some sarcasm involved in this article; if not, then I seriously feel for you. I’d like to ask you a few serious questions now. I feel safe in assuming that all of us have attempted at least to finish one of the famous “Spoof O’ the Week” articles that have graced the pages of the Davidsonian. Have any of you actually laughed at one of these spoofs? Maybe I just have not understood any of these articles or maybe—just maybe—they just are not funny and quite possibly just an annoyance to loyal Davidsonian readers who are after something a little bit controversial. Where does this guy get his ideas from anyway? So editors, what do you say that we have a write-in ballot to decide the outcome of the Spoofer?

Now I would like to relate to you why that collection of jerks and campus corrupters known as the Damned Comanches From Hell have decided to boycott both “The Pantry” and “Food Lion.” All of this occurred the last week of school before Christmas break. On Tuesday night, a couple of friends and I went to “The Pantry.” Mr. Busby and I were helping Mr. Heinze cut weight for his wrestling match on Wednesday. We rode our bikes while he jogged alongside us in the frigid night. We entered the store and collected some foodstuffs (for Busby and I) and placed them on the counter. First, the clerk screwed the total up and wanted me to pay two separate checks for some reason. I then took out my checkbook (we had paid by check here plenty of times before) and she told me that they could not cash checks there without a V.I.P. card. I calmly explained to her that I was only writing the check for the exact amount purchased and I had no wish to cash the check. After some more senseless communication, she pointed out that their check policy was posted on the counter. The policy stated that they did accept personal local checks for up to $30 with a driver’s license. I explained this to her but she still insisted that I needed a V.I.P. card. So rather than following the posted check policy, she refused to believe in herself—she called the manager on the phone who said the same thing as the clerk!?! What was causing this ignorance? Needless to say, we left hungry. What happened to the good old days when it was still 7-11 and it was in better condition, accepted checks, and there were no hassles?

Thursday night I went shopping at “Food Lion” with a couple of friends. Mr. Heinze, Mr. McCarron, Ms. Abrams and I were picking out some imported beer and one of the cardboard containers holding the beer ripped as I picked it up. The beer fell and broke. Immediately, an employee dashed over and said, “Yo, what happened cuz?” and “how much did that cost?” (how distinctly professional!). I explained to him what had happened and he ran off to get Kay (the manager?). She explained to us that we could pay for what we had dropped (gee, thanks Kay) but she would not sell us any beer because it was obvious that we had already had too much to drink?!? What-a-ya-thinkin Kay? We had not had anything to drink all night and we tried to explain this to her, but she said that we could either leave or she would call the police. I’d say that that was reasonable treatment of frequent customers, wouldn’t you? I guess Kay might have believed a little too much in herself. So we left (without paying) and gave our business to Cashions. We have bypassed both stores ever since and you’re welcome to join us.

Well, you may be asking yourselves what all of this has to do with hockey sticks, but really hockey sticks are just part of the problem. The point that I was trying to make before I started rambling about Comanche Boycott ‘88 was that the “unlimited world of sports” needs more individuals. It is possible to be a team player and still keep your individuality. It also needs more people to believe in themselves; but not be an idiot about it (like my friend, Kay). So people, do the world a favor and reach down deep inside yourselves and grab some originality. Quit plagiarizing life!

—— eeeeeeeeeeeNSF

David Cowie is a senior Biology major from Parts unknown in the depths of Hell.