Sports ran high: Davidson basketball team works hard over the holidays

By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

While most of us were sitting at home getting fat over the holidays, the Davidson Basketball team played five tough
games.

Davidson went up against the University of Pittsburgh-Johnstown in Johnson Gym on December 16. The Wildcats were red hot from
the start, finishing with a 47-25 lead at halftime. Derek Rucker’s 23 points (19 of which he scored in the
first half), and the 12 points that Mike Gynn scored in a stellar performance while starting for the injured Jeff
Himes, paced the way for an easy 93-67 victory. Also scoring in double-digits for Davidson were Jay Schmitt with 17
points, Edward Gaines with 10 points, and Maurice Gray chipping in 12 points and playing swarming defense with 3 blocked
shots and two steals. Tyrone Doleman led Pittsburgh-Johnstown with 21 points (11 from the free throw stripe), and Reggie Newsome
and Mike Sowinski each scored 12 points.

Davidson played Princeton on December 19 in the Charlotte Coliseum in a conservative, slow-paced game reminiscent of the years before
the 45-second clock. Unlike the old times, however, the three-point shot was a factor. Princeton jumped to a 23-18 lead
at halftime with the help of four three-point shots. Davidson clawed their way back into the game and took the
lead on a three-point shot by Rucker that brought the score to 33-31. The rest of the match was nail-biting
time, as the game was not decided until the last tick of the clock when Davidson prevailed 47-45. Derek Rucker
topped the scoring column with 18 points, including 5 three-pointers, and Jeff Himes added 14 points and 7 rebounds. Princeton
scored 30 out of their 45 points from the three-point line. Their two guards Tim Neff and Dave Orlandini led
the way with 17 points each; Neff took in 4 three-pointers while Orlandini managed five.

Davidson then hit the road to play U.N.C. Wilmington at home. The Wildcats stayed within striking distance the whole game,
but were never able to narrow Wilmington’s lead to less than two points (a feat they accomplished in the second
half when a jumper by Gray brought the score to 44-46). Davidson eventually lost 69-64. Larry Houzer, a 6’8" junior
college transfer at the center position, led the Seahawks with 16 points and 10 rebounds in a well-balanced scoring attack.
Willie Williams, another junior college transfer at guard, scored 14 points, Mark Gary earned 13 points, and Gary Bender garnered
12 points. Bender played a great all-around game, accomplishing 8 rebounds, 4 assists, and 4 steals. In scoring and rebounds,
Davidson was led by the trio of Rucker, Himes, and Gray. Rucker scored 16 points and managed 7 rebounds, while
Himes earned 16 points with 13 rebounds and Gray made 18 points and 7 rebounds.

Next, Davidson was back at home “sweet home” in Johnson Gym in a game against Hofstra. Davidson won the hard-fought
match 82-67, and made 35 crucial points at the free throw stripe. Hofstra’s 35 fouls helped tremendously, as three Hofstra
players fouled out of the game: Derwin Smalls, Carlos Dicenta, and James Pryor. Davidson scoring honors were led by Himes
with 24 points (including 12 from the charity stripe), Rucker’s 18 points (with 9 from the charity stripe), and Dean
Keener’s 13 points (11 from the charity stripe). Keener and Rucker played their best game together, with Keener leading the
offense with 6 assists and Rucker hustling on defense with 4 steals. Scoring in double digits for Hofstra were Frank
Walker with 23 points and James Pryor with 11 points.

Davidson’s next game was against a tough South Carolina team in the Charlotte Coliseum. South Carolina won handily 75-55, even
without the services of junior forward star Terry Dozier. John Hudson led South Carolina with 22 points and 9 rebounds.
Two freshmen phenoms, Barry Manning and Brett Price, helped South Carolina at guard by scoring 14 and 11 points, respectively.
Price, brother of Georgia Tech/Cleveland Cavalier starting guard Mark Price, took after his brother and scored on 4 three-pointers and
5 assists. For Davidson, Himes and Rucker scored 15 and 11 points, respectively.

If there are any skeptics out there, they should consider this: Davidson’s current record of 5-5 is about the same
as last year’s record at this time, when the ‘Cats went 20-11 and 20-10.

Robert Nesbit

Most of the suspense of the Davidson/Pittsburgh-Johnstown game was generated by senior Josh Budde, seen here during his halftime show
while dropping his mom’s Christmas gift. Note that the score was 47-25 at the half. The Cats won 99-67.Disrupt Davidson’s
Rucker-based strategy

By HAP BRYANT

The non-conference preliminary seasons have ended. Few teams will be traveling to Hawaii from now until March. It is time
for the college basketball season to begin in earnest, as conference schedules are starting. Like other teams, Davidson had its
warm-ups -- Erskine and Pitt-Johnstown. Unfortunately, the Wildcats proved mere practice opponents for the likes of Duke, South Carolina, and
Wake Forest. Even UNCC posed too tough a test for the young Wildcats, as Byron Dinkins, Jeff West, and more
importantly Jeff Mullins led the Hornet’s Nest to victory for the second consecutive year.

With senior guard Derek Rucker stymied by freak defenses and with Jeff Himes unable to get the ball inside amidst
6-10 foes, the 1987 portion of the season ended at a mediocre 5-4. However, there were some bright spots. The
sophomore class, on whom Coach Bobby Hussey is depending, has shown real promise. Maurice Gray, a limited participant in the
1986-87 campaign, has broken his scoring drought and is averaging around 10 points a game. Jay Schmitt, a returning starter
at center, has improved as well. He’s looking to score more often, hitting his shots, and averaging in double figures
as well. His gutsy play in the lane has netted him more rebounds this year. Alan Hunter and Magic Gaines,
who saw virtually no P.T. last year, have stepped in and performed admirably. Hunter, though at times showing his inexperience,
has effectively taken some of the ball-handling load off Rucker, and his penetrating has made things happen when the offense
seemed stagnant. Likewise, Gaines has stepped to the forefront. He has shown brilliance at times on the offensive end, and
he seems to have mastered the Davidson system.

Now that the sophomores are coming around, all that remains is for everyone to perform to his capabilities. Defenses have
keyed on Rucker throughout the early part of the season. His numbers are down from last year as a result.
The only way for Rucker to reattain his past form is for his supporting cast to assume some of the
scoring burden. When that happens, the opposition will inevitably have to change from the box-and-one or diamond-and-one and go to
a man-to-man or zone defense. Rucker will prey on these defenses, as will compatriot Jeff Himes, and the offense will
click once again.

What happens if the other players don’t score? There can be only two options. First, the coach devises an offensive
scheme by which the other players set picks and do whatever they can to get Rucker open. It’s doubly tough
for him to play against a trick defense because he has to beat one man, probably the best defender on
the other team, then attack a zone defense which has been alerted to his presence. So he needs all the
help he can get both from the supporting cast and from his coach. Thus far, the other four men on
the court, combinations of Himes, Schmitt, Hunter, Gaines, Dean Keener, Dick Seidel, and Mike Gynn, have performed well, showing signs
of greatness at spots. However, they need Rucker. Unfortunately, Hussey has failed to deal with the freak defenses. Therefore, option
#2: Davidson loses. To this point, the Wildcats have won as many as they have lost.

See STRATEGY, p. 8

Southern Conference update

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

The arrival of January signals all college basketball teams to start playing their conference games. Holiday tournaments are over and
it’s time to get down to business. First, here’s a quick update on the progress of the teams around the
Southern Conference.

Tennessee-Chattanooga leads the league with a 9-2 record. The Moccasins won the Coca-Cola Classic tournament by beating Yale and Southwest
Louisiana. At the Alabama-Birmingham Classic, UTC finished second with an 81-67 loss to UAB in the championship game. Citadel, on
the other hand, is struggling with a 2-5 record, their most recent loss being to Navy 79-67. East Tennessee State,
who had not had a game since a 93-88 win over Bluefield College before Christmas, beat UNC-Asheville 88-77. Furman is
still hot. The Paladins are 7-1 after trouncing Augusta College 81-52, and nipping Nebraska 75-74 on a last-second shot. V.M.I.,
which plays its first conference game against Davidson on January 13, brought its record to 3-4 most recently with an
84-78 road victory over Oral Roberts. The Thundering Herd of Marshall is 10-3 but has suffered two losses in a
row to Nevada-Reno and Pepperdine. Western Carolina climbed to 3-4 with a 69-68 home win against Campbell.

This weekend’s conference matchups are Davidson at The Citadel, Appalachian State at Furman, and East Tennessee State at Tennessee-Chattanooga.
