Break-ins at Akers, Richardson, p. 2

Volume LXXVII, Number 10

The Davidsonian

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, January 8, 1988

Admissions office experiencing “best year ever”

Early decision applications surge; Davidson's “selectivity index” may soon be among nation’s highest

By KEITH FINCH

A 76% increase in the number of early-decision applicants and a projected 20% increase in the number of regular decision applicants could make Davidson one of the most selective schools in the nation, according to figures released by the Office of Admissions this week.

“There’s a 90% probability that our total admit rate will drop to around 24% this year, if we can keep up our momentum,” said Robert Gardner, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. “That’s down from 35% last year.”

Gardner attributes the increase in selectivity mostly to the surge in applications for early-decision admission, which increased in number from 123 last year to 217 this year. By accepting 110 early-decision applicants (as compared with 77 last year) Davidson should be able to reduce the number of regular-decision acceptances from 703 to around 550.

Gardner explained that since only about half of the regular-decision applicants who are accepted actually decide to attend Davidson, the Admissions Office must admit twice as many regular-decision applicants as it needs to fill the freshman class. Since early-decision applicants are sure to attend Davidson, however, an “admit” granted in the fall means that a place in the freshman class has been assured of being filled. This year’s dramatic increase in early-decision applications allowed Davidson to choose a third of next year’s class before Christmas, so that the regular-decision applicants will meet with much stiffer competition and Davidson’s “selectivity index” will jump.

Davidson has also had the opportunity this year to be more choosy in its selection of early-decision candidates, and the statistical indicators of the accepted applicants’ “quality” have risen as a result. The median combined SAT score of the entering early-decision applicants has increased 30 points, to 1220, and their median class rank has risen 4 percent.

The surge in early-decision applications has been accompanied by an increase in the number of regular-decision applications. It is expected that the total number of applications received will reach 2400 this year, an increase of 19 percent. Of these less than a quarter will be accepted, while last year Davidson accepted more than a third of the 2013 students who applied.

The nation’s most selective schools accept between 15% and 25% of those who apply for admission, according to authoritative college guides such as Barron's Profiles of American Colleges. If Davidson’s total admit rate (also known as the applicant-to-space ratio) does indeed drop to 24%, the college may move from its current

See ADMISSIONS, p. 3

Albinder contract decision sparks debate

Students concerned with secrecy of faculty evaluation process

By JON BOLES

College officials notified Instructor of Music Frank Albinder shortly before Christmas break that his contract would not be renewed, provoking a variety of reactions among students and demands for revision of the faculty appointment and evaluation process.

“I feel I’ve been very badly treated,” says Albinder, who has pressed the administration to reveal the reasons behind the decision.

According to Albinder, the administration refuses to indicate why he is not being reappointed.

The Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures does not require the College to show cause for non-renewal in the case of non-tenure appointments; however, the American Association of University Professors suggests that information should be given to the candidate in writing.

Albinder has registered a formal appeal with Davidson College President John Kuykendall. If the appeal is rejected, he plans to go to the Professional Affairs Committee, which would attempt to determine whether there was just cause for the decision.

No renewal decision has ever been overturned at Davidson, but Albinder has “no qualms about going as far as I have to to fight this, even to engaging legal counsel.”

Dean of the Faculty Robert Williams, whose recommendation to the President is usually the deciding factor in questions of contract renewal, is currently in England and could not be reached. Kuykendall declined to comment on the matter.

Many students have reacted to the decision with amazement and “have shown me a tremendous amount of support,” Albinder said.

Fourth year choir member Bob Fish, currently serving as president of the men’s choir, says that he “can find no reason why Frank should be ‘fired.’”

Fish lauds Albinder’s reorganization of the choir into large concert and small tour choirs because it “gives the professors an

See CONTROVERSY, p. 3