Features

Lage Aloha Summer
By BRUCE PLOURDE

Thursday, February 4 was premiere night in Charlotte for Aloha Summer. To celebrate, three of the movie’s stars, Chris Makepeace, Lorie Griffin, and Sho Kosugi came to the theater to sign autographs and hobnob with the hoi polloi. Arriving ten minutes before the movie was supposed to start, I snatched up my promotional Hawaiian polyurethane lei and my promotional poster and elbowed my way through the throng of prepubescent girls toward Chris Makepeace. Affecting my toothiest grin, I shook hands with him.

“Hey Chris! Bruce Plourde, Davidsonian. Mind signing my poster?”

“Mr. Makepeace.”

“Beg pardon?”

“Call me Mr. Makepeace.”

“How about Master Makepeace?”

“Can I have my hand back?”

“What?”

“Stop shaking my hand.”

“Oh. Right. So, what have you been doing since My Bodyguard?”

“About eight movies.”

“No kidding! Which ones?”

“Well, I was in Vamp, The Falcon and the Snowman...”

“Really? Which part did you play in The Falcon and the Snowman?”

“I was Sean Penn’s younger brother.”

“Ah yes, I remember it well. Didn’t you get an Oscar nomination for that?”

“No.”

“Should have. So, how do you like Charlotte?”

“I thought this was Atlanta.”

“Nope. Charlotte.”

“Oh.”

“So, tell me about your new movie.”

“Why don’t you just go see it?”

“Will it be worth my while?”

“Oh yes, I’ve seen it twice already. Great movie. Take all your friends.”

“Okay. I’m kinda sorry they didn’t pay you more for the effort, though.”

“What?”

“Well, why are you wearing Lawrence Welk’s hand-me-downs?”

“I have more money in my left pocket than you’ll ever see in your lifetime.”

“Oh, can I see?”

“No.”

At this point in the interview, the theater manager gave a general call for everybody.

Confidential Health

The lowdown on Confidential Health:

Dear Confidential Health: I’m writing to you because I’m afraid for someone who I care about very much. He’s a great guy, a great rugby player, and one of the sweetest men I’ve ever met. In a word, we’re in love. But I can’t understand why he smokes pot and does mushrooms. He and a lot of guys in his fraternity do. I’m afraid to talk to him about it directly because I’m afraid he’ll get angry. He keeps saying to me (and to himself, too, I think) that drugs like pot and mushrooms aren’t bad for you because they’re “natural.” They say they’re not as bad as chemical drugs. I’m not so sure. I tried them a few times with him, and I'll admit that I felt wonderful. I wanted to do it all the time. I still feel that way, but something keeps telling me that it might not be such a good idea to get really involved in doing this. Tell me: can this stuff really hurt me? Is it really just a scam you people put on to keep us from enjoying ourselves? Are these natural drugs really O.K.?

A freshwoman

Dear Freshwoman: Experimenting with mood-altering substances is quite common among college students and is as old as the history of mankind. You must recognize that there is significant danger even with so-called “natural” substances because of great uncertainty about contaminants and long-term effects.

We know that marijuana is often contaminated with insecticides, paraquat, PCP, and several types of fungus. All of these chemicals have significant toxic effects involving primarily the lungs and central nervous system. Aspergillus molds can cause a chronic lung condition that is difficult to treat. Finally, long-term pot smoking causes premalignant changes in the lungs similar to cigarette smoking. The long-term outcome of marijuana smoking with relation to lung and other cancers remains to be seen. We do know that THC and its metabolites are stored in the body fat for prolonged periods of time.

The mushrooms your friends are using probably contain psilocybin, a hallucinogen. All hallucinogens have been reported to induce psychosis requiring extensive psychiatric care. Unfortunately, the effects of these drugs are unpredictable and vary widely between individuals and the circumstances surrounding their ingestion. Again, toxic fungi may be taken in with mushrooms. Another possibility to consider is that the wrong type of mushroom...“Gotta be good.” Chris said, taking a seat as the movie was about to begin. “Ah well, gotta run, Chris. Nice chatting with you. Hey, next time you’re in Charlotte, have your girl call my girl. We’ll do lunch. Later. Love ya, babe.”

Before the movie started, a man stood before the audience and told us what Aloha Summer was all about and how great it was. Filmed in Hawaii, it’s the teen story of two Americans, two Japanese, and two Hawaiians who spend the luau-filled summer of '59 on the island paradise. For those who might criticize a simply hedonistic movie, the man in the theater said that it dealt with the issue of prejudice. The Kanaka (native Hawaiians) accept the money of the Howlies (mainland tourists) but resent their presence on the island. The Japanese, with memories of World War II lingering, hate the Americans. And the Americans express prejudice toward everybody. The teenagers, however, are too young to have been affected by their parents’ narrow-mindedness and get along despite their various backgrounds.

But don’t be misled by the man in the theater. Aloha Summer takes on the issue of prejudice in the same way that Porky’s did. Nobody left that movie thinking about anti-Semitism. And nobody will leave this one thinking about race relations between Americans, Hawaiians, and Japanese. What will impress the audience is the beautiful scenery of Hawaii and the rollicking good times of the six friends.

Aloha Summer represents a return to the film of yesteryear when beach movies were all the fad. I kept expecting Frankie and Annette to jump out from behind a coconut tree. Chuck (Don Michael Paul), the rich-kid, blonde, square-jawed Adonis, draws together the small band of trouble seekers with his brazen manner and quick affection. Mike (Master Makepeace) provides the cast with a pair of blue eyes and some semblance of sincerity.

Together with their Japanese and Hawaiian friends, Chuck and Mike perform the solemn rites which comprise a profound, transcendent, meaningful beach holiday:
1. Chase women.
2. Have campfires on the beach.
3. Surf.
4. Charm the natives.
5. Fight with the Marines.
6. Crap on the parents and get away with as much as possible.
7. Dance to the best soundtrack since Pee Wee's Big Adventure.
8. Drink.
9. Get a lei. (The above list is provided for born critics).

Chuck and Mike, for all their good looks and gumption, aren’t memorable or even really likable. The two characters who do shine through the adolescent exploitation of this film are Ken-do (Yuji Okumoto) and his father (Sho Kosugi). A Japanese veteran of the war, Ken’s father is also a very traditional, proud samurai. He never ceases to teach his son the ways of the samurai. Ken wants to be a very good son, dedicated to his father and the family’s traditions, but in Hawaii, he aches to rid himself of his guilt and have a good time with his friends. Whereas the decadence of the other degenerates doesn’t matter much, Ken’s rebellion against his father leads to a powerful episode in the story.

Even Ken-do, like his beach buddies, is on a quest for identity. In order to become a person, one must rebel against the authority that prevents a young man’s growth to adulthood. Every teenager knows this. Herein lies their justification and the ground plans for their own rebellion. As such, I predict that Aloha Summer will be immensely popular among those still in their cavity-prone years, as well as fraternity members. If Chris Makepeace says it’s good, well, it’s gotta be good.

“Natural” pharmaceutical recreation is illegal. A misdemeanor conviction can seriously hamper your ability to become licensed to practice medicine, nursing, or law in the future.

Gotta question? Feeling confidential? Write to:
Confidential Health,
Davidson College Infirmary
Davidson, NC 28036

Engel’s view — LOOKS LIKE YOU AND ME, BvD.