¢ Sp O O =} Football

Cats fall to Lafayette 38-13, end season 0-10

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Colonial League-leading Lafayette Leopards defeated Davidson 38-13 last Saturday in the Cats’ final game of the season. The Cats came into the game with high hopes since the Lafayette starting quarterback did not play and their back-up quarterback was hurt in the second quarter. Because of these injuries, the Leopards were led by a freshman for most of the game.

However, four Davidson miscues led to 24 first-half points for the Leopards, while Davidson was not able to get on the scoreboard until the third quarter. The first problem occurred on the Cats’ second drive. Topher Hardin, after handling a low snap from center, had his punt blocked, and Lafayette recovered in the end zone for a touchdown. This was a continuation of Davidson’s season-long punting woes.

Then, on the Cats’ first possession of the second quarter, quarterback Nicky Crawford fumbled the ball and the Leopards recovered it on the Davidson 26-yard line. Six plays later, the Lafayette tailback went in for a touchdown to give the Leopards a 14-0 lead. On Davidson’s next possession, Crawford fumbled the snap at the Lafayette 29-yard line and Lafayette recovered. On second down and 24 yards to go from the Davidson 47-yard line, Lafayette connected on a 47-yard pass play for another touchdown.

With 1:35 left in the first half, the punting problems continued. Hardin’s punt only traveled ten yards to the Lafayette 47-yard line. The Lafayette drive ended with a 47-yard field goal to make the score 24-0 at the half. Although Davidson led in the total yardage category at the half, the Cats trailed by 24 points.

On the opening drive of the second half, Lafayette expanded their lead to 31-0. On third down and goal from the Davidson 5-yard line, the Leopards ran a reverse for a touchdown to cap a 13-play, 64-yard drive. Davidson finally got on the scoreboard late in the third quarter. The Cats went 75 yards in 13 plays and Mike Wright ran in from 5 yards out for the touchdown. After Lafayette scored on their next possession, Mike Wright scored again. Wright's touchdown made the score 38-13 in favor of Lafayette.

A notable statistic for the game was the Cats’ 5 for 6 performance on fourth down conversions. The loss dropped Davidson to 0-10 for the season and 0-10 against Colonial League competition in Coach Vic Gatto’s four years at Davidson. Gatto’s overall record is 2-39 at Davidson with both victories being over Wofford.

In spite of this year’s record and his overall record at Davidson, Gatto feels good about the progress of the program. He was quoted in The Charlotte Observer as saying, “We feel good about where we’re at. From a talent level, we’ve taken a real big step. We’re close.”

Around the Horn

Stoeckel sees Davidson as a

By MARK PUCKETT

Cited mainly from the November On Target newsletter:1. A high level of cholesterol is bad for you. By lowering your blood cholesterol, you can reduce the risks of atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) and heart disease. Ideally, your cholesterol level should be as close to 200 milligrams per deciliter as possible. A level of 220 can mean trouble. Diet and exercise help fight high cholesterol levels. Some people have genetically high cholesterol levels. In such cases, diet and exercise may not aid in lowering the level, and drug therapy may be the answer.

There are two types of cholesterol: 1) low-density lipoprotein (“bad” cholesterol) which carries cholesterol into blood vessels and other tissues, and 2) high-density lipoprotein (“good” cholesterol) which carries cholesterol away from the arteries. Smoking increases the “bad” cholesterol. Foods that are high in saturated fat and preformed cholesterol (whole milk, cheese, beef, and eggs) also increase the “bad” cholesterol. Polyunsaturated fats are better as they help reduce cholesterol levels. Eating high-fiber foods (oat bran, etc.), as well as beans and legumes, inhibits the absorption of cholesterol into the bloodstream.

Food and Cholesterol Chart:
- Whole Milk: 1 cup - 34 mg
- Chicken: 3 oz. - 76 mg
- Egg: 1 large - 250 mg
- Ice Cream: 1/2 cup - 27 mg
- Butter: 1 TBSP. - 35 mg
- Beef: 3 oz. - 77 mg
- Cheddar Cheese: 1 oz. - 28 mg
- Cottage Cheese: 1/2 cup - 2.4 mg

Fitness Tips of the Week (taken from Food and Fitness: the Healthy Way):
1. Don’t skip meals.
2. Plan nutritious snacks and meals.
3. Eat fruits and vegetables, raw if possible.
4. Eat slowly.
5. Eat small portions of a variety of foods.
6. Weigh in once a week at the same time.
7. Substitute low-calorie foods for high-calorie foods (i.e., beans, etc., as opposed to steak and burgers).
8. Keep fried foods to a minimum.
9. Keep a written record of your diet and exercise.

A Unique Institution
By HAP BRYANT

Approaching his second season, Davidson baseball coach Jim Stoeckel is upbeat about the state of Davidson athletics and about his program in particular. Stoeckel sees the harmony that has developed between the academic and athletic sides of the Davidson experience as unique. He hopes that the institution will continue to provide its students with opportunities to grow both physically and mentally.

“I think we’re in a unique position,” says Stoeckel. “We offer a tremendous education and an opportunity to play high-level Division I athletics.” He believes that Davidson is fulfilling its call as a liberal-arts institution through its commitments to academics and athletics. “The whole goal of liberal arts is to develop the entire person. That was, and is, my sense of what Davidson is all about. I don’t see things changing that concept apart.”

Two things that Stoeckel feels are not detrimental to his program are admissions standards and finances. “I can work with whatever admissions tells me to do,” he says. “As long as admissions continues to realize that athletics is a special area that can contribute to the college community.” 

See BRYANT, page 12