Thursday, October 20, 1988

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Quick in the morning

Must review in your 8:00 class today! I can't believe I partied until two last night! I bet I haven't
been to class for at least two weeks! I wish I could remember what the test covers. Wait a second!
I don't have an 8:00 class! A message for you.

SMITHS, from page 5

Davidson College Author

Just how much do you know about this college and its past? Assistant director of the library Mary Beaty has
recently published her new book, *The History of Davidson College*. A book-signing party was held today at the college bookstore.
Be sure to buy your personal copy today at any of the fine bookstores in town. Also, watch for excerpts
from Beaty’s book to be reprinted in *The Davidsonian* during the next three weeks.

Theater

Davidson’s fall major theater production, *1918*, begins this week. This year’s play by Horton Foote, the seventh in his nine-play
autobiographical collection, centers on a family in a small Texas town during the war. Foote, an Academy Award winner whose
career spans forty years in theater, film, and television, takes an intense look at human life and suffering. The show
opens this Friday, Oct. 21 at 8 p.m. Other show times are October 22, 28, & 29 at 8 p.m.;
Oct. 27 at 7:30 p.m. All performances are in Hodson Hall, and tickets will cost $5 for general admission; $3
for students and senior citizens. See the show yourself, then compare your opinions with the review in next week’s Features
section.

Music

The nationally-acclaimed Gospel Christian Singers will be performing a week from Friday on Oct. 25 in the 900 Room. This
four-man group, composed of Cleveland Young, Bud MacDaniel, Albert Digsby, and Will Dunn, began in the ‘30s, separated for many
years, and then reunited after members retired from jobs. Some of these members are in their 90s and still singing
strong. After their Davidson performance, the group is scheduled at the Lincoln Center in New York.

Arts Bits

The show will start at 7:30, and tickets are $3. Call the Union ticket office at 892-2135 weekdays from 2-4
p.m. for more information.

Art

Stop by Chambers Gallery this month to view Cappy Kuhn’s master prints. Kuhn has described her work as “the collaborating
printer’s function, in guiding the artist through the medium, to assist in planning the lithograph, to explain the drawing methods
available to the artist, and to perform the technical aspect of proofing and printing.” Prints will be on display until
Nov. 8.

Home Video Update

Are you a person with “a low threshold for sleaze?” If not, you might be interested in renting the newly
released *Mondo New York* for your next movie night. How’s this for a description: “a celluloid/sleazoid invasion of the eccentrics,
weirdos, misfits, crackpots, and mischievous bad seeds, it’s a wild journey into the New York jungle that wallows in...the playgrounds
of perversity?” Coming to video rental stores near you Oct. 26.

State Fair

Where can you go to see the Kochman “Auto Thrill” Show, the Demo Derby, tractor pulls, draft horse pulls, assorted
shows and performances, and Robinson’s Racing Pigs? This week at the NC Department of Agriculture sponsored NC State Fair in
Raleigh, you can see all this and much more; “Goodness grows in North Carolina.” Admission is $4 for adults, $1
for children 6-12, and free to everyone 5 and below or 65 and older. The fair opens at 9 a.m.
this Thursday, 10 a.m. Friday and Saturday, and 12 p.m. Sunday. The fairgrounds close at midnight each night. Call Barbara
Williams for more information.

However, they have no radical sound to back them up. The biggest thing I look for in a band, besides
the test of time, is diversity. And unfortunately, I didn’t hear any. Their songs all have roughly the same rhythm.
They always use the same instruments. And the vocals never change. Quite frankly, I was bored by the end of
the album. “Rusholme Ruffians” reminded me of a bad R.E.M. song. And it was during this song that I really
wanted them to go out and buy a keyboard. Any keyboard. It’s extremely difficult for the standard guitar-bass-vocal-drums configuration to
do anything new anymore. The Beatles already exploited that setup to its limit. I just wanted them to branch out
and experiment with new sounds more. The sound they do, they do competently, however, 14 more or less identical songs
is a bit much.

“The Boy With The Thorn In His Side” made an attempt at lead guitar work. It was average, fair, OK,
and alright. However, I would not describe it as melodic or skillful. “What She Said” had a good rhythm and
good guitar work but the same old vocals. At this point, I realized that Morrissey was going to do all
of the vocals on the album by himself. If you don’t have back-up vocals or harmony, you have to be
a really strong singer, aurally charismatic. Morrissey is not.

“London” presented something slightly different. It had a faster, new rhythm and the drums were rather good. But Morrissey has
the questionable habit of rolling his “R”s, which he does to excess in this song. “I Know It’s Over” was
not over soon enough. It was needlessly long and drawn out. There’s more to a slow song than just doubling
your tempo.

“Still Ill,” “Bigmouth Strikes Again,” “Ask,” “Is It Really So Strange?” and “Cemetery Gates” presented more of the same. They
would start off well and then that damn voice would come in again. “The Draize Train” was my favorite song.
It’s an instrumental where Marr, Rourke, and Joyce get to show what they can do without Morrissey. And I liked
it.

Overall, I never tapped my foot or had any desire to sing along. (Come on, isn’t that your test for
a good album?) Rank has the sound of a rather ordinary court party band. Personally, I’d rather listen to Rumpus.
One final note: I'd
