6 Thursday, October 27, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Photo editor Alex Hayden and staff artist Mike D. S. Chill were taking a walk one evening and sighted this ghost in the Old Davidson Graveyard. Using the highest photo-technology available to them, the two gonzo journalists were able to catch a fleeting glimpse of the “Halloween Ghost of the Old Davidson Graveyard” on film. It is reputed actually to be just a fast and bulbous squid-eating dough in a polyethylene bog, but you can try to see for yourself.

If you’re looking hard for a PART-TIME JOB, make it easy on yourself. Contact your local Domino’s Pizza store, and cash in on your driving skills.

FULL-TIME and PART-TIME positions available. Our pizza delivery drivers make some of the best money in the business, up to $9.00 an hour!

Earn Up To $9 An Hour With Domino’s Pizza® Call 664-7300

Auto insurance, valid driver's license, access to car, and good record required for delivery positions. Must be 18 years old. ©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

Parents, Students can meet with Wruck for JYA Wurstburg University info

How does spending a year in Germany as a student at Wurstburg University sound? This opportunity is available thanks to the efforts of German Professor Erich Wruck. With the backing of Professor Zimmermann in the German Department, Wruck chose Wurstburg University as a suitable replacement to the previous program which no longer satisfied Davidson’s needs.

Wurstburg University’s president and chancellor came to Davidson in 1985 to meet with President Kuykendall and sign an accord between the two institutions. This agreement with a foreign university was first of its kind for Davidson. The first group under Wruck began Davidson’s affiliation with the renowned German university in 1986. In the forthcoming years, namely 1989-90 and 1990-91, Wruck will once again be the resident director of the program. Wruck is very interested in establishing good rapport with the students who are interested in the program and their parents. He will be in his office, Chambers 303, this Friday and Saturday to give parents of freshmen and sophomore students the chance to talk with him about the exceptional opportunities offered by a junior year at Wurstburg University.

Photo by Alex Hayden and M. D. S. Chill

THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER
STUDY IN OXFORD, ENGLAND

Academic scholars of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center (WISC) to recommend qualified students to study at Oxford. Minimum 3.2 GPA and at least Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college; this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. college in Oxford. Oxford colleges are accredited by the U.S. Dept. of Education to accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Multi-national student housing and social activities are offered, and tours are conducted by WISC. A special summer session is directed by WISC.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, D.C.

Pre-professional summer sessions are available with the White House, with the media, and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. All college students with a 3.0 GPA or above are eligible.

For further information, please write or call:

The Washington International Studies Center
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 230
Washington, D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275

EO/AA

Student Counseling Center
08 Union Basement Ext. 2451

Amelia Dockery, Ph.D.
Tom Plott, Ph.D.
David Staton, Ph.D.
Yin Sykes, M.Ed.
DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.
Christine Davidson, Secretary
Campbell Peery, M.A.