10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jon Dyar Boles, First Among Equals  
Keith Finch, Less-than-equal Go-fer  
Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editor  
Tripp Helms, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors  
Rachel Nation, Inside Art Editor  
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor  
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors  
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager  
John Wightman, Business Manager  
Lucia Kendall, Opinions Editor, Circulation Manager  
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus  
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Section Production Editors  
Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor  

A continuing problem

Another act of vandalism. The reports are becoming commonplace; maybe soon we’ll earn ourselves a special mention in the Yale Daily News’ Insider’s Guide to the Colleges. But destruction of property is not a new problem at Davidson—a “Dean’s Outbasket” from 15 September 1981 complained that “One wonders what a good Davidson education is doing to people when they treat their homes like some students treat theirs.” The accusing finger was pointed at alcohol abuse, a likely culprit and obvious problem at Davidson. But as long as we keep these problems within the college community as our dirty little secrets, maybe the damages can be kept to mere fiscal losses.

This time it was a little different, however. The individual who added a few personal touches to Mike Jarmon’s paintings evidently knew what s/he was doing: a stroke here, a dab there, “I wonder if he’ll notice this.” Davidson is a highly competitive school, but we are fortunate to have avoided the bane of other “good” schools—the sort of cutthroat competition among students which makes academic life unpleasant. Maybe this incident of vandalism was inspired by simple jealousy, an attempt to cut the man in the limelight down to size or to say “I could’ve done it better.” But watch out pre-meds, lab reports could be next.

Needed: a rotating chair

In the past four weeks, three noted scholars have come to Davidson to complete the application process for the interdisciplinary chair in International Studies endowed by the James B. Duke Foundation. The position should attract an individual with a national reputation, someone who can bring recognition to and act as a representative for the college—and a person who will be able to work with students, act as a resource and guide and stretch them in new directions. All three candidates brought impressive c.v.s to the process and any one would be a fine choice for the position. But that only makes the decision more difficult. A certain element of interdepartmental competition is inevitable here, as the professor will first and foremost be an asset to the faculty and students of the field within which they work.

Why hasn’t the possibility of making the chair a rotating position come up? Given two or three years, a scholar would be able to make a considerable impact on Davidson and its students, while the college would hopefully be able to draw upon a larger and better field of candidates each time. The need for more professors in the various departments could be ameliorated, at least temporarily, and we might have the opportunity to bring in diplomats and businessmen who could provide a different but equally valuable perspective on the way the world works. We urge the college to give consideration to this possibility.

Correction: Last week’s editorial implied that a simple majority vote would be required to alter the PCC alcohol policy. Such changes in fact require a two-thirds majority vote.

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Feel free to come by, as long as you promise not to give Boles any cigarettes. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Suzanne Craymer, Jim Dillon, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Stewart Rawson, David Scott, Toby Truog.  
Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, Lisa Gerrard, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Scot Myers, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill Scouten, Shannon O’Shields, Florrie Snively.  
Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.  
Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts, Lucy Siler.  
Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.  
Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Piskir, Fred Pullen.  
Spiritual Consultants: W. B. Yeats, Lee Eichelberger.  

Monday, April 18, 1988DAVIDSONIAN

Vanguard of Responsible Journalism

Thanks Again

Letters

Ignorance?

Dear Editors:

Such irresponsible scholarship as that displayed by Ian Scully in his article “Why we must love our brother” should not be allowed in a newspaper that strives to uphold the value of objectivity. Mr. Scully has simply not bothered to get most of his facts straight, and in failing so, he has greatly misled his readers into a world of emotive liberal fantasy.

As a Salvadoran citizen, I would like to help Mr. Scully get his facts straight. First of all, Mr. Scully’s ill-intentioned phrase “In 1978, the then president of El Salvador, Roberto D’Aubuisson ordered the assassination of the Archbishop of El Salvador, Monsignor Oscar Romero” should be appalling to anyone who knows that Mr. D’Aubuisson has never held the presidency of the Republic of El Salvador. Furthermore, perhaps Mr. Scully would like to come to our courts where this horrible assassination is still under close investigation. His accusations should adhere to the judicial principle “presumed innocent until proven guilty.”

Second, Mr. Scully asserts that “more than 2 million people out of a total population of 5 million have been killed, fled the country for personal safety, or become internally displaced.” I will not speculate on what Mr. Scully’s sources might have been in quoting this exorbitant figure, but as far as we know, in ten years of civil war less than 75 thousand have been killed, less than 1 million have left the country (most of whom have come to the U.S. as illegal sojourners), and the number of displaced people due to the 1986 earthquake is far more significant than the number displaced due to the war. Our population is now bordering on 6 million; we must be doing it faster than rabbits to have made up for the holocaust that Mr. Scully describes!

Finally, Mr. Scully questions the involvement of U.S. Evangelical churches in Latin America. He argues that they have “divided the people well.” I am certain he did not intend to include Cuba and Nicaragua in his critique since there is no freedom of religion in either of those countries. I wonder if Mr. Scully is concerned with maintaining Catholic Orthodoxy’s supremacy in Latin America or if he is simply another admirer of Liberation Theology. If the latter is true, I advise him to read what Cardinal Ratzinger (Sacred Congregation of the Catholic faith) has to say about it.

Is all of this the result of intellectual dishonesty, irresponsibility or just plain ignorance? I was truly appalled to see this gross inexactness printed in the newspaper of one of the most respected liberal arts colleges in the U.S. I wonder if it would not have been better to send the one and a half sheets of paper used up by the article to La Prensa of Managua!

Galo Cabrales

The editors would like to remind readers that opinions printed in the “Commentaries” section do not necessarily reflect the editorial perspective of The Davidsonian.

Correction

The editors would like to apologize for the inadvertent omission of the following paragraphs from Wolfgang Christian's article on page 11 of the April 13 issue of The Davidsonian. The following text should have appeared on the third line of the third column:

The PAC report recommended an overall 9% increase, approximately 1/2 of which was justified to regain our competitive position. Had this increase been funded it would have added about $269,000 to the compensation pool. A third and often overlooked factor is the effect of advancement in grade. Even if the salary scale of $28,100, $38,800 and $47,300 for assistant, associate, and full professors (these average values are published in the PAC report and individual salaries vary widely) were not adjusted yearly for the previous two factors, it would still be necessary to provide compensation increases to individual faculty members due to advancement in rank. In a long term stable environment one would expect that retirements at the high end of the salary scale and replacement with assistant professors would provide funds for such increments. In general, I would expect that an assistant professor would have reached the mean after 3 years of service, associate professors after 10 years, and professors after 20 years. A linear extrapolation will yield about a $1,000 per year increase as faculty advance through the ranks. Unfortunately, the median age of the Davidson faculty is only 43; 51 faculty are between the ages of 35 and 45 while only 21 faculty are between 55 and 65.