12 April 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH Anniversary Issue

"Wilson at Davidson"

STUDENTS SEE FOOTBALL AND TRACK PICTURES

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

SNAPSHOTS ARE REQUESTED BY ANNUAL EDITOR

Vol. XXII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 9, 1935 No. 13

FOUR DAVIDSON PROFESSORS ON RADIO PROGRAM

Dr. Vowles and Prof. Pfohl Present First Holiday Broadcast

PRES. WILSON HONORED

Dr. W. L. Lingle And Dr. J. M. McConnell Speak On Second

The Student Body following its festive inclinations for the holidays, members of the faculty went before the microphone December 21
and 28 to present the regular Friday evening College radio program. Dr. R. Vowles, professor of German, and Professor J.
C. Pfohl, of the music department, combined to present a pre-Christmas program, and the next week, Dr. Walter L. Lingle,
president of the college, and Dr. J. M. McConnell, of the department of History, divided thirty minutes between them, speaking
on Woodrow Wilson.

“The first record we have of the observation of Christmas,” Dr. Vowles told his radio audience, “comes two centuries after
the birth and that tells of the burning of a building of Christmas worship by Diocletian.” In spite of this
inauspicious beginning Christmas has come to be perhaps the most widely celebrated holiday in the Western world. Very little is
certain about the date of the first Christmas, pointed out Vowles. At first it was celebrated in the spring but
in 350 A.D. the present time of the year was adopted. The leaders of the Church wished to supplant the
pagan festivals by Christian observances and the present time of Christmas coincides with the lengthy pagan celebration of the winter
solstice. Other pagan contributions to our Christmas celebration are the holly, mistletoe, and the Christmas tree. Even after heathen festivals
had been displaced, remarked Vowles, abuses and excesses still clung to the Christmas celebration so that in 1644 English Puritans
forbade any merriment whatever. Vowles then told of the development of Christmas carols, and the rest of the program consisted
of a dozen selected carols played on the organ by J. C. Pfohl, with introductory sketches by Vowles. Another musical
highlight of the same program was Pfohl’s cornet solo, “Nazareth,” by Gounod.

On the next program, Dr. W. L. Lingle chose as his topic, “Woodrow Wilson at Davidson” and gave several interesting
sidelights on his life at Davidson. In answer to the question, “Was He Expelled from Davidson?” he stated in the
negative and pointed out that his record for deportment was 100. His grades were excellent with the exception of mathematics.

(Continued on Page 4, Col. 1)

FRESHMEN HOLD ANNUAL SMOKER

Prof. Williams, Skip Brown And Bob Smith Address First Year Men

The Freshman class of '38 had their spiritual sendoff for the Christmas holidays by a smoker which was held in
the Chambers building banquet hall on December 17, 1934, at 10 P.M. The principal speakers for the occasion were Bob
Smith, Skip Brown, and Prof. Williams. The talks were mainly Christmas messages and very short. While the boys were getting
together in

Annual Editor Appeals For Senior Snapshots

Bob Smith, editor of Quips and Cranks announces that all senior snapshots must be in by Monday, January the fourteenth.
The staff of the annual also announces that it will be very glad to accept any snapshots, or photographs of
campus activities, or events. Anyone having pictures which he wishes to submit is requested to do so by next Monday.
The photographer who has been taking the individual pictures will return after examinations, in order that those who have previously
found it impossible to have their pictures made may have another chance to get their picture in the annual.

TWO NOMINATED

DAVIDSON HOST TO BISHOP KERN

Noted Methodist Leader To Speak At Morning And Vesper Services

METHODISTS INVITED

Both Sermons Will Be Delivered In Chambers Building

Bishop Paul B. Kern of the Methodist Church will conduct the morning service and the Vesper service next Sunday. The
local Methodist Church will have no services that day but will join the Presbyterian congregation to hear Bishop Kern. Both
of these services will be held in the College Chapel.

RHODES TEST

D. G. McNeil, Of Duke, And H. A. Page, III, Of Princeton, Are Candidates Chosen

Donald G. McNeil of Miami Beach, Florida, a Senior at Duke, and Henry Allen Page, III, of Aberdeen, N. C.,
a Senior at Princeton, were nominated Saturday, Jan. 5, to represent North Carolina before the district Rhodes Scholarship Committee of
Selection at Atlanta, Jan. 7.

Page, a grand nephew of the wartime ambassador, Walter Hines Page, entered Princeton after graduating from Asheville School. He won
Phi Beta Kappa during his Junior year, and has won several prizes in English, including the class of 1897 prize
in Old English. He spent a summer under Sir Wilfred Grenfell in Labrador. Athletic sports in which he participates are
tennis and track.

In the third, or Lee of Va., a student at Yale; W. S. Mundy, Jr., of the University of Virginia;
and W. Lewis of Georgia, Harvard University. McNeil is president of the Duke men's Senior Class and a member of
Kappa Alpha fraternity. Among his distinctions are Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa and Red Friars. The North Carolina Committee
found great difficulty in making its selection of two from a very excellent group of nineteen candidates from the various
colleges of the state. Davidson was represented by Gordon H. Brown, John Douglas, Thomas Sutton and Gordon R. Wood of
the Senior class. The committee consisted of President Thurman D. Kitchen of Wake Forest, Chairman; Prof. F. K. Mitchell of
Duke, Secretary; Prof. R. K. Gooch of the University of Virginia; Prof. C. P. Spruill of the University of North
Carolina, Prof. W. B. Bolich of Duke and Prof. G. R. Vowles of Davidson, all former Rhodes Scholars except the
chairman.

Bishop Kern is a native of Alexandria, Va. and took his undergraduate work at Randolph-Macon College and at Vanderbilt University.
Since that time he had had a varied and outstanding career in church work. He first held pastorates in Nashville
and Murfreesboro, Tennessee. In 1915 he was made a professor in the Theological Department of Southern Methodist University and in
1920 he was made dean of the Theological School of that University. Here he remained until 1926 when he received
a call to a large church in San Antonio, Tex. Bishop Kern was elected as Bishop of the Methodist Church
in 1930 and was assigned to the Orient where his duties carried him through China and Japan. He has written
several books, among them, “The Miracle of the Galilean,” and “The Methodist Church and Its Work”. He is a member
of the Phi Beta Kappa scholastic fraternity and the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

PROFESSORS GO TO CONFERENCE

Dr. Cumming And Dr. Watts Attend Meeting Of Modern Language Association

The Modern Language Association, meeting during the Christmas holidays, was attended from the Davidson faculty by Dr. W. P. Cumming
of the English department and Dr. G. B. Watts of the French Department. The Association met in Philadelphia, December 27-29,
at the invitation of Swarthmore College. According to Dr. Cumming the meeting was unusually well attended this year. The general
opinion of the delegates was that the teaching profession seems to have rounded the corner and is steadily improving. They
believe, also, that there is at present more chance for young men interested in teaching than at any time in
the past, and as conditions for the teachers improve, more opportunity for entering the profession will be afforded.

ATHLETIC FILMS ARE VIEWED BY MANY STUDENTS

Track Meets And Last Wake Forest Game Are Shown In Slow Motion

Large student audiences attended the first showings of motion pictures of athletic events by the Davidson College Athletic Association Monday
and Tuesday of the past week. Two films, one of the National Intercollegiate Track Meet of 1932, held at the
University of Southern California, and the National Intercollegiate Track Meet of 1930, held at the University of Chicago, were enjoyed
on Monday night's program. On Tuesday afternoon, students were also treated to that ancient privilege of seeing a Wildcat team
down Wake Forest. The picture was that of the Thanksgiving game of 1934 when the 'Cats, led by Johnny Mackorell,
downed the Deacon 13-12. The famous quarter mile race between Eastman and Carr was the feature showing of Monday evening.
Carr is the holder of 46.9 seconds, World record for the quarter mile and Eastman holds the record for the
half mile run, 1:49.9 seconds. Carr took the superb quarter mile race, seen in slow motion by the audience. Students
also saw the great miler, Glenn Cunningham, perform, and Graybar, of Southern California, set a new World’s record in the
pole vault, fourteen feet and four inches. The two track films were of 800 feet each and about two hours
was required to show them. The picture of the Davidson-Wake Forest game was taken by Bill Lyons, photographer of Davidson
and Statesville. Captain Norton G. Pritchett, in speaking of the films, stated that they were of definite educational value as
well as offering splendid entertainment. Both these objectives were had in mind, he said, when the Athletic Association decided to
buy the machine. Practically all the track team was in the audience.

COURT MARTIAL OF R. O. T. C. OFFICERS IS NOW IMPENDING

Next Davidsonian Will Appear On January 30

YMCA LANE AIDED BY MANY

Ninety Per Cent Of Student Body Contributes To “Y” Fund For Ashe County

STONE TO RECEIVE GIFT

Pledges Should Be Paid By Mid-February

Approximately ninety per cent of the Student Body pledged to contribute toward the “Ashe County” Christmas Gift Fund, sponsored by
the Y. M. C. A., with the goal set at $750. A student was assigned to each dormitory floor and
one Y worker visited the day students in an effort to give members of this institution ample opportunity to send
in their contributions. Students are requested to pay their pledges by the middle of February, at which time the Gift
Fund will terminate. A chart was conducted in the lobby of Chambers Building, showing the progress of the campaign.

McCLURE TALKS AT 'Y' VESPERS

Secretary Of Davidson “Y” Chooses Ezekiel 22:30 As Text For Address

Albert B. McClure, Secretary of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., was the speaker on Sunday at the first of
the Y. M. C. A. Vesper services for the new year.C.A. vesper services to be held this year. The service
began with an organ prelude played by Carl Chapman. The congregation joined in singing, after which Warner Dubose, who was
in charge of the service, called upon W. C. Neill for prayer. Prof. James Christian Pfohl gave a cornet solo,
"Londonberry Air," accompanied at the piano by Mrs. Pfohl. Mr. McClure took his text from Ezekiel 22:30, “I sought for
a man... but I found none.” The children of Israel—all of them—prophets, priests, princes—had become corrupt. God was seeking for
a man to lead them from their sins, but He found none. Today, God is searching through the world—through Davidson
campus—for a man of high moral ideals, with a true conception of God, and with a feeling of the brotherhood
of man whom He can use in the work of advancing His kingdom. Will He find one? Mr. McClure is
an alumnus of Davidson College, class of '31, and of Union Theological Seminary, class of '34. He came to Davidson
this fall to serve as secretary of the college YMCA.

In an effort to bring a truly outstanding orchestra to Davidson, the Pan-Hellenic Council has contracted with Kay Kyser and
his nationally known band to play for the Mid-winter dance set, the gala event of the Davidson social calendar. Kay
Kyser has a band already well known to Davidson students. At present, he is located at the famous Blackhawk in
Chicago, but next month he is going to make a southern tour for the purpose of playing at several college
dances. He has engagements to play at eight southern schools, including the University of Tennessee, Sewanee, Alabama, Auburn, Georgia Tech,
North Carolina, Washington and Lee, and Davidson. At present, he broadcasts nightly over WGN and associated broadcasting stations.

The date for the set of dances has been set for Friday and Saturday, February 15 and 16. The usual
procedure will be followed, with a formal dance on Friday night, a tea dance on Saturday afternoon, and an informal
dance on Saturday night. All three dances will take place in the Charlotte Armory. Plans are being made for some
type of figure for one of the dances. A price for the dances has not been set. Since Kay Kyser
himself is a North Carolinian from Rocky Mount, and since eight members of his orchestra are also from this state,
the band is in great demand among the colleges of the state. It is possible that a conflict in dates
will arise between Davidson and two other schools. In case of such a conflict, Davidson would have the prior claim,
having signed their contract before the universities of the others. In the event that Kay Kyser fails to fulfill his
part of the contract, the Pan-Hellenic Council assures the student body that another orchestra of equal rank and fame will
be secured. The Council issued this statement in order to clear up rumors and to forewarn the students concerning the
orchestra set-up for mid-winters.

“We want the student body to realize that the council is not trying to make any money out of these
dances,” said Mims Rogers, president of the Pan-Hellenic Council. “We believe that the students are willing to support big-time dancing,
and we are making an effort to bring it to them. This is their chance to show whether they want
it or not.”

Dr. J. L. Douglas is ill. Dr. John L. Douglas, head of the mathematics department, has not been able to
meet his classes since the holidays due to illness. Dr. Douglas has been in the Charlotte Sanitorium since the first
of the holidays, suffering from an illness which to date has not been identified by doctors.

Unknown Second Lieutenant Steals Pistol And Fails To Attend Drill. Three charges brought. Trial will be held on January ninth
at 7:30 P.M. Rumors of a Military Court-Martial on the campus were fully confirmed late today by a report from
Headquarters of the Davidson Battalion, Reserve Officers Training Corps. With the reports came a copy of the charges and an
extract of a special order from Atlanta authorizing the trial. The name of the accused, a second lieutenant of D
company, has not yet been made public. Although a court-martial has been in the offing since early December when a
pistol was stolen from the armory, officials have kept their actions shrouded in secrecy, and it was not until this
afternoon that the details were made public. Members of the prosecution, having done a good job of sleuthing, have brought
three charges against the accused lieutenant. They are as follows:

Charge I: Violation of the Ninety-Third Article of War. That said lieutenant “did, at Davidson, N. C., on or about
December 5, 1934, feloniously take, steal, and carry away one pistol, caliber .45, automatic, serial no. 19382, value about twenty-five
dollars ($25.00), the property of the United States.”

Charge II: Violation of the Sixty-Fourth Article of War. That said lieutenant “... having received a lawful order from Captain
J. M. Douglas, his superior officer... to be present for parade with his company on December 5, 1934, did... willfully
disobey the same.”

Charge III: Violation of the Ninety-Fifth Article of War. That said lieutenant “... did at Davidson, N.C... with intent to
deceive... officially state to said commander that he... was sick and on his way to the infirmary, which statement was
known by said lieutenant to be untrue.”

The above charges, stated as “very serious” by authorities, were accompanied by an order from Atlanta which read as follows:
(Extract) “A general Court-Martial is hereby appointed to meet at Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., Jan. 2, 1935, or as
soon thereafter as practicable, for the trial of such cases as may be brought before it. Members of the court
are: President—Major A. J. Potter, Law Member—Captain Hutchins, Captain C. T. Fort, Captain A. M. Cunningham, Captain J. H. Powell,
Captain J. H. Batte, Trial Judge—Advocate—Captain W. B. Ravenel, Captain John M. Douglas, Defense Counsel—Captain A. C. Rogers, 1st Lieutenant
W. L. Northern, 1st Lieutenant B. O. Simpson, Asst. Trial Judge—1st Lieutenant R. O. Dees, 1st Lieutenant E. B. Garrett,
1st Lieutenant E. G. Holt, 1st Lieutenant R. H. (Continued on Page 4, Col. 3)

Dan Cupid’s Arrow Scores As Three Faculty Members Wed. Three faculty members were married during the Christmas holidays. They were
Professor J. C. Bailey, Jr. and Miss Sophie Richards; Miss Cecil Rogers united in marriage with Dr. A. T. Clifford;
and Miss Thelma M. Mills was married to Professor S. S. Minault.

Miss Sophie Richards became the bride of Prof. John Crooks Bailey, Jr., at an impressive ceremony held in the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church on the evening of Saturday, December 22nd, at 7:30 o'clock. The bride is the attractive daughter of
Mrs. Bailey. She received her education at the Davidson High School and Converse College, in Spartanburg, S.C. For the ceremony,
Miss Jane Leighton Richards, the younger sister of the bride, acted as maid of honor. The bridesmaids were Miss Elizabeth
Gaulding of Atlanta, Ga.; and Miss Rebecca McDowell of York, S. C, and Richmond, Va. The groom’s brother, Mr. W.
H. Bailey of Memphis, Tenn., served as best man. Groomsmen were: Dr. Paul Patterson of Hollins, Va; Mr. H. T.
Lilly of Davidson; Mr. Sam Black and Mr. Donald Bailey, brother of the groom, from Rock Hill, S. C.

Miss Cecil Rogers, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Carl Clinton Rogers of Statesville, N. C., was united in marriage with
Dr. Alfred Turner Clifford, Professor of Chemistry at Davidson, on December 27, 1934. The marriage took place in the First
Baptist Church of Statesville at 4:30 P.M. with Rev. David Hawkins officiating the ceremony. Mrs. Clifford is living in Statesville.

The wedding of Miss Thelma Mills and Professor S. S. Minault took place on Saturday, December 22, 1934, in the
(Continued on Page 4, Col. 2)

Each year the Y. M. C. A. of Davidson College inaugurates a drive to help some needy cause. This year's
contributions will aid in completing two unfinished churches, being constructed under the direction of “Ham” (Rev. R. H.) Stone. “Ham”
Stone, an alumnus of Davidson, visited the college before Christmas and explained the purpose for which the money will be
used. For ten years, Rev. Stone has devoted his life to the work in Ashe County in an unparalleled fashion.
Rev. Stone, in his chapel talk on Tuesday, described the work which is being done in his mountain pastorate and
the very real need felt by his two churches there. He described the great personal sacrifices made by members of
his congregation to forward this work. He then gave an account of the domestic services and vacation Bible schools which
he holds each summer in various mountain localities.

Never failing in their task, the students of Davidson College have pledged their support to this worthy cause.
