Monday, April 24, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

By MUADI MUKENGE

The officers of the Davidson Emergency Rescue Service (DERS) have announced that the squad will cease operation at the end
of this academic year. DERS was established in 1977 to offer 24-hour emergency medical care to the college community. DERS
Chief Tom Moore cited low call volume as the primary reason for the disbandment. He said that Mecklenburg County’s MEDIC
service will fill the void left by DERS. The squad was equipped to provide basic life support (BLS)—the level of
care that most ambulances provide, but MEDIC offers full-time paramedic-level care. MEDIC is “first class,” according to Moore, and provides
advanced life support (ALS) which is “high-tech prehospital care.”

The decreased call volume is apparent in the disparity between 1985-86's 40 calls a year and this year's 10 calls
received. According to Assistant Chief Officer Jim Taylor, the decrease in the number of calls may be attributed to a
change in the character of incoming classes. “Davidson students are engaging in alcohol-related behavior at a lower rate than in
the past,” he said. The alcohol-related accidents so prevalent in the past have been replaced by physical injuries and illnesses
such as epilepsy and diabetes, said Taylor.

DERS is folding despite a strong membership of 30 students. DERS is structured so that there are two Emergency Medical
Technicians (EMTs) and one trainee on call at all times. The EMT training available in the past will no longer
be provided to DERS staff members by Central Piedmont Community College (CPCC) personnel. In the past, an EMT course was
offered on campus. According to Taylor, CPCC’s budgetary constraints will not allow the continuation of the course at Davidson and
thus a qualified staff cannot be maintained. EMT Certification training in North Carolina consists of 120 hours of study.

Awards given at spring convocation

DEPARTMENTAL AND SPECIAL AWARDS

Sandy Black Memorial Award - Marion Boyd Gillespie
Bremer German Language Award - Hannah Lind Harrell
James A. Chapman, Jr. Annual Honor Award - William Bruce Newsome
Jefferson Davis Award - James Edward Dillon
Eumenean Literary Society Award - Brian James Gatchel
Leona M. Goodell Memorial Award - Elizabeth Ann Hicks
Douglas Houchens Studio Art Award - Patrick Shannon Mullen
David Halbert Howard, Jr. Chemistry Award - Henry (Trey) Lytle Harrell III
Kendrick Kelley Award in History - Harry (Hap) Smoak Bryant Jr.
William G. McGavock Mathematics Award - Thomas Riley Whipple
Phifer Award in Economics (2) - Douglas Alan Hicks and Elizabeth Allen Kennedy
Richard Ross Memorial Music Award - Lee Rajamalliga Nagendran
Susan Roberts Award - Jane Haynsworth Price
Thomas Sparrow Award - Robert Vaughn Cornish, Jr.
Theatre Award - Donna Lynn Peters and William Linder Sutton, Jr.
Alberta Smith Devane Religion Award - Julia Snead McCrorey
Porter Vinson Chemistry Award - Joseph Allen Treadway
William Vinson Mathematics Award - Suresh Kumar Acharya
Daniel Blain Woods Award - Brian Henry Asbill
James Baker Woods, III Award - Stewart Mitchell Cates
William Gatewood Workman Psychology Award - Raymond J. Harshbarger, III and Daniel G. Bowman

SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS

Rotary International (6)
Molly M. Cochran ’89 — University of Dublin, Ireland
Kimberly J. Crabtree ’89 — University of Queensland, Australia
Susan M. Park ’89 — Ivory Coast
David K. Ray ’89 — University of East Anglia, United Kingdom
Sarah L. Whitesides ’89 — Buenos Aires, Argentina
Sheryl L. Aikman ’87 — University of Bristol, United Kingdom

Teaching Assistantships (5)
Anne Louise Allen ’89 — Stanford University, chemistry
Elizabeth L. Bostick ’89 — University of NC, Chapel Hill
Michael C. Fitzgerald ’89 — University of Wisconsin, chemistry
Caroline G. Hoffman ’89 — University of California, Berkeley, chemistry
Paige R. Leidig ’89 — Texas A & M University, chemistry

Fellowships (5)
John R. Coleman ’89 — Robert W. Woodruff Fellowship, Emory School of Medicine
David N. Dalrymple’89 — Fellowship to attend Emory (MBA) Thomas A. Dengler ’89 — Wake Forest, English C. Sherburne Sentelle,
III ’89 — U.S. Army Graduate fellowship Arlene J. Bach ’89 — Masters in health administration, University of Michigan.

National Science Foundation Scholarships (2)
1) Suzanne Beckham ’88 — 3-year NSF scholarship to Stanford’s Ph.D. program in chemistry. Linus Pauling Award from Stanford.
2) B. Gordon Watkins, III ’87 — Ph.D. program in economics at MIT

Full Tuition Grants/Scholarships
- Cheryl L. Connor ’89 — USC Medical School
- Susan G. Grant ’89 — University of Cincinnati

Ph.D. Funding
- Raymond J. Harshbarger, III ’89 — University of Rochester, MD/PhD program

Watson Fellowship
- Milbrey E. Raney

GENERAL AWARDS
- Charles Lloyd Award: Anne Alyson Watts and Peter Miles Testa
- Windley Hall Award: William D. Mauegomel, Jr.
- Vereen Bell Memorial Award: Sheri Ann Reynolds
- Tommy Peters Award: Sebastian Koch
- Rebecca E. Stimson Award: Alison Anne Chapman
- Dean Rusk Program Award (2): Julie Virginia Mayfield and Ismat Syed Hussain
- C. Shaw Smith Award: Diana Mitchell Titus-Allen
- Charles Malone Richards Award: Vanessa Lynn James
- Agnes Sentelle Brown Award [First-time award]: Douglas Alan Hicks and Ismat Syed Hussain
- George Gladstone Memorial Award: William Franklin Helms, III
- ODK Teaching Award: Juan Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldez

ROTC cadets place second in Ranger Challenge Weekend
By GARY WHEELER

Davidson’s ROTC cadets placed an impressive second in the Ranger Challenge competition in Cullowhee, North Carolina on April 15. The
nine-member team, led by sophomores Mike Peters and David Taylor, began competing at 6:00 a.m. and by the end of
the event at 5:15 p.m. were just two points shy of first place. The competition included six team events: physical
training test, weapons assembly, hand grenade throwing, marksmanship, rope bridge, and a 10-kilometer run. By the end of the day,
each cadet had run between 10 and 12 miles each. In the 10-kilometer run, cadets must run with boots, a
30-pound backpack, and an M-16.

“The purpose of Ranger Challenge is for ROTC cadets to train on their own,” said Captain Taylor. He estimated that
the cadets spent 10 hours a week preparing for this competition in addition to waking up at 6:30 a.m. twice
a week for physical training. Western Carolina hosted and won the event, while Furman and Clemson were also aided by
their ROTC divisions. Davidson can only choose its nine competitors from its sixty cadets, but Clemson’s ROTC has 250 members,
and both Western Carolina and Furman have over 100 cadets in their ROTC departments. In spite of the small department,
Davidson’s cadets took first place in the road race and the rope bridge—events that Western Carolina were expected to win.
Individually, Peters scored perfectly on the physical training test and George Sartiano made a perfect score in the marksmanship competition.
Peters was the only cadet in the entire competition able to do 92 sit-ups and 82 push-ups in two minutes
and to run two miles in less than 11 minutes, 54 seconds.

This year’s team included junior John Black, sophomores Mike Peters, David Taylor, and Grier Martin, and freshmen Jayson Phillips, George
Sartiano, Mark Swofford, Chan Shepperd, and John Kelso. According to Taylor, for the army “the spring is a warm-up for
the fall.” In the fall, the ROTC will compete against all North and South Carolina schools with ROTC divisions. The
teams that take the two top spots in that competition will proceed to the regional competition that includes teams from
Maine to South Carolina. “Ranger Challenge is the ROTC’s second biggest goal—their first biggest is advanced camp [after the cadets’
junior year], and it [Ranger Challenge] lets the people who are the best at what they do show off,” said
Taylor. With this spring’s results, Taylor and Peters say they are “optimistic” that next fall will be a time when
Davidson cadets can show off.
