8

Monday, April 24, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students imitate Elizabethan ensemble in Shakespeare work

By LISA JACKSON
In a classroom search for authenticity, Davidson students produced their own rendition of Shakespeare’s All’s Well That Ends Well and also handled all aspects of its production.

The production was presented on Shakespeare’s birthday weekend—April 21-23—in Lingle Chapel of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

These students in English professor Cynthia Lewis’ Performing Shakespeare class remained true to Elizabethan and Shakespearean traditions. They consider themselves to be an ensemble instead of just a cast, and that means building the set, sewing costumes, and even composing the music for their production. They did everything from researching the banners that would have appeared in ancient Florence to sewing curtains for the stage. As in Shakespeare’s day, this play has no single director. Lewis and all students contribute their own ideas and opinions on how scenes should be done.

“It’s unbelievable what these students are doing at the last minute to bring this together,” said Lewis, “but even this is Shakespearean, because his theater was very spontaneous and probably patched together in some ways at the last minute.”

All’s Well That Ends Well is one of Shakespeare’s most rarely performed plays. Helena, a beautiful but poor physician’s daughter, is in love with a nobleman, Bertram, who neither desires nor deserves her. Bertram tries to make Helena’s task of winning him impossible by telling her that he will not reciprocate her love until she is pregnant with his child, though he refuses to sleep with her. But through an ingenious trick, Helena substitutes herself in bed for another woman whom Bertram desires, and fulfills his outlandish conditions by becoming pregnant.

Helena finally convinces Bertram that she has satisfied his every demand of her, and yet Bertram almost seems capable of rejecting her again. The final, lingering tension between Helena and Bertram reminds us of how little we understand the love we feel.

Students found that the production experience gave them exciting insights into Shakespeare’s writing. Jim Dillon, a senior English major who plays the part of Bertram, said, “You can get the basic meaning of what Shakespeare was trying to do by reading the plays, but often you gloss over what could be a very important line. It’s not until you’re standing there saying those lines that you begin to understand what he meant.”

Lewis began the class in January by having students study the text of All’s Well That Ends Well and scholarly criticism of the play’s meaning. They also studied the history of the Shakespearean theatre, actors, and performances. The last two-thirds of the semester has been spent on putting together the performance.

There are 15 students in the class. Some have only theatrical experience and some have only English backgrounds. “What happens,” says Lewis, “is a cross-fertilization between these two kinds of students. They teach each other.”

Alison Chapman, a senior English major who plays the part of Rynaldo, has no acting experience but does know a lot about Shakespeare from summer research in Elizabethan drama and an internship at the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington. “I love Shakespeare, but I’ve always studied it as a text,” she says. “Now I’m seeing it as a script, as something meant to be performed.”

Lewis sees the class as more than just a study of Shakespeare. She describes it as an “indoors” Outward Bound program. “You can’t put on a whole play by yourself,” she says. “The students have to learn to rely on each other to get things done. It’s a lesson in community because for anyone to be successful, everyone has to be successful.”

Do you think Shakespeare built sets for his plays? He may not have gone that far, but Shakespearean actors had a much more active role in their productions than do their modern counterparts.