Features the Davidsonian
Friday, November 17, 1989

©

Power-walking has become the new craze
By ELIZABETH HOWE

A new exercise phenomenon is sweeping the Davidson campus. On any given evening, one can find a group of Davidson students circling the track around the football field. They have fallen prey to the new fitness craze—power walking. Some are motivated to walk by the fear of gaining unwanted pounds, while others simply enjoy the opportunity to get out in the fresh air and exercise. Whatever their incentive, more and more students are trying this form of exercise and sticking with it.

Last spring, the physical education department added power walking to its list of lifetime sports for which students can earn credit. Judy Krenzer, secretary for the athletics department, explained that this addition was made available “for students who don’t want to run.” The requirements for receiving the P.E. credit are as follows: students must view a movie on race-walking, walk 90 miles within the course of the term, and submit a weekly record of the number of miles they walk. Between 25 and 30 students are currently enrolled in the class.

Many students elect to walk regularly even after they have done enough to earn their credit. "I decided to continue walking daily with friends,” said sophomore Elizabeth Sellers. She found that this particular form of exercise helps her sleep more soundly at night. Hilary Coman, one of a group of several sophomore girls who have become addicted to power-walking, claimed that she opted to exercise by walking “simply because it’s more fun” than other more strenuous forms of physical activity. “It’s easy to do, and I have a lot of friends who walk with me,” she added. Carrington Mangum commented that “walking provides a great way for me to procrastinate.”

Some hints for prospective walkers: First, vary your walking route. Don’t always plan to walk a certain number of laps around the track each day; that quickly gets boring. If you are feeling particularly adventurous, venture out into the town of Davidson. There are lots of places around town that you may have never seen before. Secondly, walk with friends. Not only does this make your exercise much more enjoyable, but it also makes it safer, especially if you have to walk after dark. Finally, make sure that you have shoes which are suited to power-walking. Walking in shoes such as regular Keds or Tretorns can cause anything from minor pain to shin splints.

The 1930s in 1989
By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

The Studio Theatre class puts on a double act

The Studio Theatre class presented a play within a play earlier this month in the Theatre Workshop. The setting of the play, A 1930s Mystery in 1989, is a summer stock theater in the North Carolina mountains in 1989. This summer stock theater is putting on an atrociously bad 1930s mystery. It was the funniest college production I had seen at Davidson, though perhaps not the most professional.

The cast had a formidable task. There were two scenes in the play. In the first scene, the actors meet each other and study their scripts. In the second scene, the audience only sees the conclusion of the play on opening night. Adam Smith, playing the director, masterfully controlled the tempo of the play in the first scene, while Buck Reese, as the detective, also performed very well. Also doing an exceptionally good job were Tracey Phillips, Timisha Barnes, Sandrine Ferry, and Eric Bone in his short role as critic. Phillips gave an excellent portrayal of a nerdy theater worker put in an unaccustomed acting role. Barnes, funny in both her actress and character roles, was always complaining to the director about racist words being used in the play. Ferry did a humorous part as a beautiful actress complaining to her husband that she deserves better acting parts, when she actually does not.

A list of the students with the characters:
Carey Pickard (a method actor)
Chase Boyer (a Brooklyn actress)
Buck Reese (pizza delivery boy forced into acting)

When asked how the production was progressing, members of the cast replied, “Oh, it’s all right but we really haven’t had time to polish it.” Well, not giving themselves enough credit, they managed to pull off an entertaining and humorous performance.enough time was __ ally has almost no acting talent and only gets parts into leading roles because her husband is the director. My condolences to the cast who could have made a better mistake. Far too frequently, a play can become “roboticized” as the blood is sucked out of the characters and actors, often because directors try to dictate every move. If you missed this play, there will be two student-directed plays in the Theatre Workshop on November 15 and 16.

From Acting Class
From Director's Class

“I want to go home”—escape from Duke’s monstrous campus
By HILARY COMAN

Many of my friends from high school often kidded me about going to Davidson, most of the time for the same reason: Davidson appeared to be too small. However, I treasured Davidson’s small size then as much as I do now, and I ignored my friends. School size hadn't crossed my mind again until two weekends ago. I decided to expand my intellectual prowess by researching a paper for one of my history classes. To do this more effectively, I chose to drive to Duke and the North Carolina Archives building. At that moment, I was quite convinced that I had my act together. I brought a list of needed materials and felt confident that all would go well. Unfortunately, fate decreed otherwise.

My paper changed as a result of the archives trip, so I had to rearrange a little bit before going on to Duke. But on the surface, all still appeared to be in control. I got to Duke and called one of those very same friends from high school, begging for directions about how to find him. Somehow I managed and was able to enjoy a brief respite as we ate lunch. Then my real adventure began. My friend escorted me to the library, a building that without a doubt covered three city blocks. I confidently told my friend that I would be done within a few hours. He looked at me dubiously and left me at the reference desk.

The process that followed was interminable. I began an enduring relationship with the reference librarians, who no doubt thought I had just escaped from a mental institution. I also learned that the Duke library is split into two sections; being on the second floor and the second level are two entirely different things. I finally figured out that some of the materials were on the computer while still others were in the card catalogue. Perkins library was invaluable for my paper, but it was almost too much for my mind to take. My minor dilemmas are funny now, but they were devastating at the time. I had reproduced some things from a databank for about $2.50. When it came time to pay, however, I found I only had a ten dollar bill. Unfortunately, the place did not accept cash, nor was there a place to change it nearby. A sympathetic librarian offered to pay, but I told him that I would find my car and get my purse. There was one catch to this though—my car was on the other campus. Somehow, I calmed down and managed to get everything organized. The only catch was that it was about 8 p.m. I called my friend to tell him my woes and to get him to check out all my books. He complied, but he laughed as I informed him of what I had been through. He told me, “You're not at Davidson anymore.”

I guess I had not appreciated the convenience which the Davidson library and campus offer. I did not kiss the ground when I returned, but I was very happy to go to our “Briare” and know very well that the second floor is the second floor.

SERVICE
n. employment as a servant.

Christian ministries need people with your skills to work and serve in the U.S. and overseas. Thousands of jobs are available right now. CALL INTERCRISTO TODAY 800-426-1342 (WA & Canada 206-546-7330) or return the coupon below.

Intercristo
The Christian Career Specialists
A division of CRISTA
19303 Fremont Ave.
Seattle, WA 98133-3800