Don’t give up hope! page 5

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, No 15

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, January 26, 1989

Crime Beat

Commons employees arrested in car shootings

- By DAVID SCOTT

Crime hit the Davidson College campus again as several cars were shot at or spray-painted in the parking lot of
the Commons, around Patterson Court, and in the area immediately surrounding the college during the weekend of January 14. At
least four had windows shot out and a large swastika was painted on the side of a catering truck.

Arrested in the incidents were three seventeen-year-old employees of the Commons, Eric Hastings, Chris Lehew, and Chris Houser, and one
juvenile. A BB pistol and a can of spray paint provided the weapons.

Jackie Hughes, director of public safety, stated that all those involved have been apprehended, and all have confessed.

Rumors that the actions may have been racially motivated seem to be unfounded. The tone of each of the confessions
suggests a general bewilderment at why each of them did what he did. If anything, the motive appears to have
been the ever-present search for coolness.

Lehew told police in a statement how one suspect was “talking about how he had heard that windows would bust
really easy if you shot them with a BB gun. I didn’t think they would, but Chris [Houser] shot one
and it exploded. It was really cool looking. I guess I got carried away. I figure on the way out
I got 3 or 4 more... It was all really stupid!”

Hastings described to police how the group had shot out the windows of a jeep on Concord Road, had spray-painted
cars on Patterson Court, and had shot out the windows of a Volkswagen parked behind the Commons. Houser also admitted
to shooting at cars.

Hughes stated that the group would probably not go to trial until March due to the extensive paperwork and red
tape that must be handled before further action can be taken. Officer Emory McLaurin noted that the offense is a
misdemeanor and estimated the maximum punishment at $500 and/or six months in jail. The suspects are more likely to go
under “deferred prosecution” and made merely to pay back the damages, McLaurin said.

No more “college”;

New logo selected to unify college’s public image

- By MUADI MUKENGE

A new logo has been designed to adorn all Davidson College publications and stationery. With a development cost reported to
be in the low five figures, the logo will serve to unify the college’s public image.

According to Jerry Stockdale, director of College Relations, the decision to redesign the college logo resulted from a desire to
correct inconsistencies in college materials. The design features the word “Davidson” written in upper-case letters and underscored by a red
bar. A white diamond is reversed out of the bar immediately under the “V.”

In May 1988, college president John Kuykendall commissioned a task force (the Work Group on Communicating the Mission and Goals
of Davidson College) to study how the college was projecting its image through public relations materials.

Samples from reports, brochures, and even meal tickets were studied. The group discovered major inconsistencies in letterheads and designs.

“We were shocked by what we found. There were vast inconsistencies in quality control,” says Stockdale. “[There were] some good
and some terrible.” Although the official college logo was “Davidson College” in black letters with only the “D” and “C”
capitalized, it was not being used consistently by the entire college. Some departments made up their own letterhead, says Stockdale.
In fact, eight different typefaces were being used to write “Davidson College.”

The work group made a recommendation to assign the duty of developing a “graphic identity” to a committee of college
administrators. Stockdale served as chair of the group.

The committee was advised by Baltimore consultant Robert Rytter, president of R.S. Jensen Company. The company specializes in developing graphic
programs for colleges and universities. Rytter developed a set of possible logos from which the committee selected the present choice.

According to Stockdale, the focus of the logo is to stress the word “Davidson” rather than “Davidson College.” Other colleges
such as Haverford and Harvard already have a practice of omitting “college” or “university” and placing the emphasis upon the
name itself, he said. “We want to build upon that. The diamond under the ‘V’ places an accent on the
beginning of the word.”

In both the old and new design, the text uses the Palatino typeface, a bold and classic style. The use
of upper case signifies solidity. “We want to project Davidson as being bold and progressive while reflecting its traditional values,”
says Stockdale.

The committee feels that a consistent and bold image is something Davidson College needs in order to present itself positively.

The proposed new logo is pending formal approval by Kuykendall, although he has given a verbal endorsement of the redesign
and some publications have begun to make use of the design.

Stationery, mailing labels, and business cards will also be printed with the new logo. Color combinations such as red-black and
gray-black are available in addition to the regular black print.

Upon receiving approval from Kuykendall, the committee is expected to propose that another group develop a unique design for the
athletic department’s publications. That job would involve choosing one drawing of the Davidson wildcat, which currently is being presented in
different ways.

The Office of College Relations will be responsible for publishing guidelines for all publications by the end of the academic
year.
