Thursday, October 19, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

IMACtion

Just Average Guys emerge preseason victors

By QUINN McCUTCHEN

Despite the inclement weather caused by Hurricane Hugo, the 1989 IMAC flickerball and indoor soccer seasons are well underway. Unfortunately,
recordkeeping from these games is rather incomplete thanks to a rash of forfeits and postponements caused by the hurricane (added
to the fact that many teams forgot to turn in their scorecards). Here is an incomplete record of the 1989
flickerball and soccer seasons:

FLICKERBALL

Congratulations to Sig Ep’s Just Average Guys who won the pre-season tournament, defeating Kappa Sigma’s Delta Force 39-16.

Week 1: Flighty Fourth flew by Jammin’ 3rd Cannon 13-6, 3rd Beast mauled the Titties 32-12, D.F.W.B. blanked Iming 33-0,
We are Thrice Yea defeated 2nd West Belk 33-20, The Butt Pirates were beaten 31-18 by Those Meddling Kids and
R.A.S.H. broke out against Davidson Minus 42-30.

Week 2: First East Beast II edged by the Mystery Machine 31-27. First Richardson felt the aftereffects of their first
night on the court, losing to 4th Cannon 27-0. The Psycho Hall From Hell psyched out 2nd Richardson 12-0 and
the Flickergods really psyched out Wine Us, Dine Us 39-0. KA Gold beat 2nd East Belk 13-0, Down the Hill
demolished some Really Nice Girls 6-2, the Old Men squeaked by The Pack 40-6 and Drop and Give defeated Delta
Force 33-12. In other games that week: Insatiables over The Pits 35-0, Frankie’s Angels over Flighty Fourth 12-0, 3rd Beast
thumped the Blue Dogs 38-12, Just Average Guys defeated Iming 39-12, Butt Pirates edged 2nd West Belk 13-7 and R.A.S.H.
nosed out Those Meddling Kids 20-19.

Week 3: 2nd West Belk avenged their Week 2 loss by bombing Davidson Minus 37-6 and R.A.S.H. plugged the Butt
Pirates 37-6.

Week 4: 3rd Beast blanked Iming 13-0. The Just Average Guys employed the infamous “sleeper play” to bomb D.F.W.B. 44-20
and R.A.S.H. rolled against 2nd West Belk 49-25.

INDOOR SOCCER

Week 1: Capt. Pike & the Weiners outscored Paxic Shock 3-0, KA Gold and Confusion battled to a 1-1 tie
and Hammond Eggs fried The Invaders 3-0.

Week 2: Delta Force defeated KA Swamp 7-0, The Mount edged Iming 9-7, Hammond Eggs lost to KA Gold 3-2
and the Idiot Savants stupefied FFJ 4-2.

Week 3: 3rd Beast rocked FFJ 16-0, Confusion confused Hammond Eggs 7-2, the Invaders beat Paxic Shock 8-0, Delta Force
(in what is hopefully a misprint on the scorecard) defeated 2nd Center 35-0 and the Idiot Savants mauled the Harry
Buffaloes 18-6.

Week 4: Confusion were winners over Capt. Pike and the Weiners 3-0 and Hammond Eggs blanked Paxic Shock 6-0.

Homecoming countdown

On the sports front

O.K., O.K. - I’m sorry

By JOHN BURNS

This Monday, as I was taking a left by the equipment room to go play racquetball, I was startled to
hear my name called in a rather frantic way by a good friend of mine. “You better watch yourself around
here,” she said with a note of tension, “the women's coaches are maaaaad at you.” That was how I became
aware of a rather large mistake on my part. While agonizing over whether or not to take any of the
ebullient, sardonic sarcasm out of Mark Puckett’s column (I decided not to), and whetheror not would get an IMAC writer
(I did), I completely and inexcusably omitted women’s sports from my section. I, John Burns, being of reasonably sound mind
and desperately sleepy body, do hereby officially apologize to all the dedicated athletes and coaches who were offended by this
mistake. Please accept my humblest apologies. It was in no way my intention to belittle the vibrant women’s athletics program
here at Davidson. Our most successful team so far is the field hockey team, which has beaten many tough opponents
and played others to the limit. The women’s soccer team is showing great improvement and the volleyball team is dealing
with a young lineup and a near-impossible schedule very well. Thirty-five percent of the varsity athletes at Davidson are women.
The importance of these programs cannot be overstated.

Lady Wildcats squeeze past Cobras at end, 3-2
By SPIDER WORMUTH

The women’s soccer team improved its record to 2-5 Monday with a 3-2 victory. Following losses to Randolph-Macon and Elon,
the Wildcats bounced back in a tight contest with the Coker Cobras. At the eleven-minute mark in the first half,
Maria Tucker opened the scoring for Davidson with a goal off a cross pass from Ann Todd. In the second
half, after Coker had scored the equalizer, Liz Clarke scored off a direct kick to make the score 2-1. The
Cobras again tied the score late in the half on a breakaway. The Wildcats finally overcame Coker on a goal
by Annie Adams with less than two minutes remaining.

The Lady ‘Cats return home to play their second and third home games this week, taking on St. Andrews on
Wednesday at 4:00 and Queens on Saturday at noon.

WALLOP, from Page 1

lead to 7. Despite the officials deciding to penalize Davidson for this altercation even though Davidson remained on its sideline
throughout, the 15-yard penalty on Carney moved Methodist to the Davidson 29. Instead of allowing the injustice of the officials’
decision to rattle them, the ‘Cat defense responded with a tackle for a loss by DL Mike Rogers and a
fumble recovery by LB Harry Schiavi. Junior Ralph Isernia ran in two touchdowns against the Monarchs. The rout was on.

Twenty-four third-quarter points and one fourth-quarter score gave Davidson its largest margin of victory since 1980, when they defeated Southwestern
56-3. Unfortunately for the Wildcats, there will be little time to enjoy this win. Saturday’s opponent is Division III powerhouse
Ferrum, whose only defeat last season came in the championship game. If the Wildcats aren’t prepared, they could see a
repeat of the Methodist score, only in reverse.

Body Count: Total players lost for the year to date - 7
Steve Livesey (knee) is out for the season.
Lionel Benoist (hand) is out for the season.
Jebo Barnes (groin) is day-to-day and questionable for Saturday’s game.

Record Watch: Freshman placekicker James Brown's seven field goals to date put him on pace to break the school record
for field goals in one season (9).

Sophomore Liz Clarke stands out as one of the Wildcat’s top scorers.
Photo courtesy of Sports Information
