Monday, April 24, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Bob the Carrot

Dear Editor:

I enjoyed most of your recent cartoon, but I found offensive the “Note to Indian and Pakistani Readers.” Ethnic humor
can be funny when told to an appropriate audience by appropriate members of the ethnic group or in the context
of poking fun at all ethnic groups, including one’s own. Your Davidsonian cartoon doesn’t meet any of these criteria. Rather,
it stands as an isolated, unmotivated attack on a numerically small ethnic population at Davidson. Moreover, it undermines our efforts
to make all international students (and faculty) feel welcome at Davidson.

Sincerely,
Ruth L. Ault
Assoc. Prof. of Psychology

Bob’s Response

Dear Public:

Two weeks ago, an awful tragedy befell The Davidsonian. I engaged in an “unmotivated attack on a numerically small ethnic
population at Davidson.” In other words, I made fun of the Indian and Pakistani men for having small endowments. Like
the captain of Exxon’s Valdez, I was drinking at the time I committed this slight, so I guess I can
be excused. It was a tragic human error and I did not mean to belittle the honorable brown men of
the East. I understand, or rather it has been pointed out to me, that this little joke “undermines our efforts
to make all international students feel welcome at Davidson.” I would like to apologize to all international students, especially the
men from Nepal. These kind young men were upset that I failed to mention them in the comic strip. I
would like it to be known that they are just as equal, or even less so, as the Indian and
Pakistani men. I hope the international community will forgive me for my little pun. I would especially like to ask
those in the administration, faculty, and student body who were offended by the “ethnic” joke for forgiveness. Next time I
see any of you at an international student-sponsored event, I will ask for your forgiveness in person.

Sincerely,
Kevin Dunn

The Library

Dear Editor:

Thanks to Davidson students, the changes in the Library have been a great success! It’s really quiet on the 2nd
and Ground Floors; it’s much quieter on the main floor. “Park on the Prowl” has identified very few who have
not gone along with the spirit of the changes regarding no-food-beverages-and-chewing-tobacco in the Library except for the Smoking Room. Hopefully,
those few have been “converted” to the cause. (It’s to their distinct advantage to be converted.) Hundreds and hundreds of
books were returned during Amnesty Week, thus avoiding “humongous” fines, and these books are now available sooner for others to
use. There has been one modification in the fines: they are calculated at $.05-per-day until April 7th; $.25-per-day beginning on
the 8th. If anyone paid too much or has an incorrect IOU, please see the Circulation Supervisor.

The Library is now a better place because of and for you. Let’s keep it that way.

Sincerely,
Leland Park ‘63
Library Director

P.S. Remember to keep an eye out for books left around campus at the close of school.

Stan Humphries, Delia Johnson, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Mey boast

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Margaret Carroll, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Jay Chaudhuri, Sports Editors
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
This space for rent, Opinions Editor
This one, too, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
ThomasHampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

CHANGES, CHANGES

Greetings from your new Davidsonian editors—the college’s first female co-editors. We’re looking forward to the challenge of managing this newspaper,
despite its many seesaws and surprises—but that’s what makes journalism exciting.

We are one of many changes which have occurred on campus in the past academic year. Most notable is the
switch to the semester system after a century of quarterly courses. A year’s experience has been enough to convince some
that they would rather return to a 10-week term than take the same course for 15 weeks. Science majors complain
of the difficulty in scheduling several lab periods, while language students don’t get the daily instruction which would make that
extra difference in their performance. The urge to procrastinate tempts some and the end-of-the-term panic has become an epidemic during
the last month. Instead of two or three term papers, students are caught with five and even six.

On the other hand, students have the opportunity to study abroad for the semester without risking the loss of credits
and there is less pressure to prepare daily assignments. Time will be a big factor in determining the success of
the semester system. Incoming classes will have the benefit of learning from the start how to plan their schedules, and
professors will gradually learn to redesign their courses in order to reap the maximum benefits from the 15-week system.

A sign of changing times and priorities has been the emergence of the condom issue. It is commendable that the
college community is at least discussing this issue because, contrary to popular belief, Davidson is not in its own little
world and there are teenagers and young adults participating in adult behavior. Each individual must take precautions to ensure his
or her own personal health. Whether Davidson will follow the example of other colleges by installing condom machines is yet
to be seen.

Next fall will be a time of new traditions as well, namely the Baker Sports Complex. May each Wildcat return
from summer vacation with a renewed spirit to grow in any aspect possible here at dear Davidson College.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of The Davidsonian. Unsigned editorials are the responsibility of the Editors. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Copy Editor: Laura Sizemore.
Assistant News Editor: Suzanne Craymer.
Assistant Features Editor: Trent Stevens.
Assistant Opinions Editor: Ingrid Page.

News Staff: David Bearce, John Burns, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Suzanne Craymer, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood,
Gates Grainger, Heath Hardage, Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler, Molly Young.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Condit, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan,
Frank Lord, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Shannon O'Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Aguali Sharma, Trent Stevens, Jessica Thurbee,
Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Burns, Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome,
Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson, Spider Wormuth, Hathaway, Stephen, Robert Marshall.
