— Sports

The Davidsonian
Wednesday, November 1, 1989

X-country, field hockey end on wins

By JOHN BURNS

Beach and Otrok lead cross-country team

The Davidson cross country team ran well last weekend at the Davidson Invitational Cross Country meet. The team was second only to a very strong Brevard team. Both the men’s and women’s squads finished second in their respective divisions.

Chris Otrok once again led the men with an 11th place finish. This finish is even better than it sounds once you realize that Brevard swept nine of the top ten spots. Otrok pointed out that the top five men for Davidson all finished within 42 seconds of each other.

“That’s a really good split,” he said.

Cathy Beach finished first for the ‘Cats and third overall in the women’s division, continuing a very strong personal season.

The tournament included teams from Lenoir Rhyne, Johnson C. Smith, Francis Marion, and West Georgia (both of which beat Davidson last year).

Field hockey has great week, wins three

The Davidson Field Hockey team knocked off Pfeiffer Tuesday by a score of 3-0. Goals were scored by Gigi Cooke and Marjorie Hevighurst. The victory left the Lady Wildcats with an 8-4-2 season record.

The team beat High Point College 3-0 on Saturday in a lopsided game. Earlier in the week, the ‘Cats mutilated Salem 5-0.

The Wildcats came back from a shaky early season and midseason injuries to establish themselves as one of the top teams in the South.

On the sports front

By JOHN BURNS

After a rough week, I really didn’t want to write this column. My editors saved me; they assigned me to cover the Ticket Policy. I really think it would be inappropriate for me to write an opinion piece on the policy when I also had to write the unbiased information article as well. So, I’m sitting here writing these useless sentences. (Some of you might say I always write useless sentences, but that is beside the point).

One thing though, Shawn O'Rourke did say the policy is possibly changeable after this season. If you want it changed, fill up the arena and especially the student section at EVERY GAME. The ball is in our court; if we can get a lot of people to every game and show some dedication, who knows? We might get the whole bottom section.

Until next week...

David Murray and Jay Clugston, members of Davidson's cross-country team, helped lead the ‘Cats to a second place finish in last weekend's Davidson Invitational. Both men's and women's teams placed second behind Brevard. Cathy Beach finished third overall in the women's division while Otrok finished 11th. Photo by Ed Matthews

The 1989-90 field hockey team

This strong field hockey team has defeated its opponents in the last three games. Members are (back row, L-R): Betsy Pryor, Coach; Margaret Carr, Katherine Casey, Marjorie Havighurst, Lauren Follmer, Beth Pharr, and Mary Russ; (Row 2) Jennifer Brown, Jenny Plowright, Jackie Carberry, Jennifer Roos, and Francesca Fierro; (row 3) Elizabeth Dahm, Simone Plaisance, Catherine Turner, Monique Dockter, Gigi Cooke, and Courtney Townes.

Photo by Tim Dancy