Thursday, March 9, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN 15

PLEASE GUYS, TRY TO BEHAVE FOR SGA WEEKEND. NO CHEAP SHOTS ON KIT MORRIS AND ATHLETICS, DEAN WILLIAMS’ TENURE, RAPE OF WDAV—RADIO FROM THE STUDENTS, WARS, OR THE HOW ‘BOUT SOMETHING MORAL, LIKE CONDOM MACHINES IN THE UNION OR THE BLACK EXPERIENCE AT DAVIDSON.

Letters

Mistaken identities

Dear Editor,

Having been mistaken for the volleyball coach, Rebecca Hawkins, on numerous occasions, I would like to set the record straight as to my true identity. There are a number of similarities between us: we are both tall with short hair, we are in good physical shape, and we work in connecting offices. However, there is a major difference. I coach field hockey and Rebecca coaches, as I mentioned before, volleyball. I have enclosed a picture of both of us for comparison and hope that this will end the confusion.

This brings me to mention another aspect of my current identity crisis. It seems that whenever I tell people I coach field hockey, I am given a rather blank look that makes me realize this is a foreign sport to most people in the South. This lack of understanding of the sport often means that the team and its accomplishments are overlooked.

Field hockey was one of the first women’s sports added to the Athletic Department in 1975. Since that time the field hockey team has won both regional and national honors as a member of the A.I.A.W. Although the team has not been as successful since joining the NCAA, there have been numerous individual honors awarded, as players have been selected to Deep South “all-star” teams. Last season, a freshman was selected to represent the Southeast region at the National Hockey Festival in California. As a team, Davidson field hockey has progressed from a 1-11-1 season in 1986 to a 6-7-1 season in 1988, the best record in years. Given the strength of some of our opponents (Duke, Wake Forest, Radford), I see this as a remarkable accomplishment in two years.

With most of the attention being devoted to some of the more popular sports, male and female, field hockey has often taken a back seat in media coverage. The field hockey team deserves greater recognition for their accomplishments and the progress they have made over the past few years. And, of course, I would like to be recognized as the field hockey coach, not the volleyball coach.

Respectfully,
Betsy Pryor
Field Hockey Coach

IMACtion coverage

Dear Editor,

“No Wins.” The members of Third West Belk salute Larry Sledge’s departure as the 1988-89 IMAC president. We feel his leadership was minimal and his sports coverage was slanted and inadequate. First in the realm of indoor soccer, the team from Third West, which had won several times, was placed in the tournament and received the lowest seeding. Despite having a better than average record, we were forced to play the number one team. This was done because we had...

Next we go to basketball. Throughout the regular season, which we finished undefeated, Sledge’s coverage of freshman basketball, and our hall in particular, was sparse despite there being two undefeated teams in B-league and one in A-league. Maybe the fact that NUBZ finished 3rd in A-league, and Caroline's...Dream took. 1st —. _ See 3rd WEST, page 16 _

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Margaret Carroll, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Julie Zimmerman, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

Snacking in the stacks?

Library Director Leland Park has issued the results of a student survey covering a wide range of topics from the Honor Code to bibliographic instruction to PCs in the library. A particularly interesting item was the question of eating in the library. Many students returning surveys questioned the reasons why the library has a smoking lounge while forbidding food altogether. This point deserves some attention. Why indeed does the library provide facilities for smokers while denying the more widely felt hunger?

When Little Library opened fifteen years ago, smoking rates were higher, and tobacco use was not as widely perceived to be a health hazard. Times have changed and the truth is out; there no longer remains a good reason for the college to tacitly support nicotine addictions. Sugar and caffeine addictions, on the other hand, are somewhat more benign and more widely shared in the student body. It makes sense to turn the area of the library now reserved for a small number of smokers over to the whole student body. Eating and drinking in a controlled area of the library cannot be as damaging to the premises as cigarette smoking.

There are roughly thirty seats in the smoking lounge, and rarely are there more than three or four people occupying them. A small investment by the library in vending machines would create much more efficient use of the space. Students know a good-faith gesture when they see one, and Davidson students still have sufficient honor to carry out their end of the deal by keeping the food where it should be. Selling snacks such as M&M’s will avoid crumb problems even within the room. Should caffeine ever come to be as reviled by the health community as tobacco is, then Coke machines can easily be switched to Sprite and V-8!

Dr. Park and the rest of the library folks should be credited with and thanked for making many improvements in the quality of library services. The replacement of the smoking lounge with an eating lounge would be another notable step toward making the library a more pleasant and useful place.

$7,031.25!

Seventy-five percent of the $150 million campaign is to come from alumni, according to John Griffith, head of Institutional Advancement. With 15,300 living alumni—at least 16,000 by the end of 1994—that’s an average of $7,031 a head. Even the class of 1992 will be two years out of here by then—all of us are going to be the alumni the college is aiming at. Presumably, some gifts will be smaller, but even if 100 generous souls fork over $1 million apiece, those remaining will be expected to cough up $786 per capita to keep our dear old alma mater afloat. That’s a lot of petty cash; it should be interesting to chart Davidson’s success in this very ambitious project.

Don't Worry John, We'll See This Thing Through, After All, Dan Was a Success!