~ Condom Controversy Continues!

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 20

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, March 9, 1989

A diplomat’s thoughts on The Satanic Verses and the world

Jack Perry, director of Dean Rusk Program, meets the press

By JAY CHAUDHURI

If ever a book stirred the world, it is Salman Rushdie’s The Satanic Verses. The Ayatollah Khomeini, Iran’s religious leader who has charged the novel as blasphemous and an insult to Islam, has offered a bounty of as much as $5.2 million to Rushdie’s assassin. In reaction, the Western world, including the 12 members of the European Community, have withdrawn their top diplomats from Teheran. There have also been anti-Rushdie protests in India and Pakistan. In the meantime, The Satanic Verses has become a sudden bestseller.

To shed some light on that which has created so much heat, The Davidsonian talked to former ambassador Jack Perry, director of Davidson’s Dean Rusk program.

Davidsonian: As we all know, Rushdie’s book has caused a great deal of Islamic outrage; it has affected both Iran and the rest of the world. Considering first the internal turmoil of Iran, is the Ayatollah’s declaration of Rushdie’s death a reaction toward the “liberals” of the country, those who have been trying to strengthen diplomatic and economic ties with the West in order to resurrect Iran’s disastrous economy?

Ambassador Perry: There is no doubt that the Iranian Revolution needs some fresh fuel. Any revolution tends to run down after a while, and opponents rise up and there is struggle for power. As the Ayatollah gets older, it’s obvious that he has to struggle to maintain the purity of what he considers his revolution. And so I do think that a very important element in this whole scene is this is ammunition for him to use against his enemies to show that he is the Defender of the Faith.

At the same time you have to compare it a little bit with the taking of the hostages, when they seized the embassy, because that was an internal matter, too. And yet, it does have international implications. Both are rather similar in that Khomeini both times went against the usual norms of international diplomacy: most of us don’t seize embassies, and most of us don’t condemn authors we don’t like to death. The international part is shocking; the domestic part is the way revolutions work out, I guess.

Davidsonian: Touching upon the so-called “norms of international diplomacy” you mentioned, British Foreign Secretary Geoffrey Howe has said, “Nobody has the right to incite people to violence. We want serious and stable relations with Iran. But [that] will not be possible while Iran fails to respect international standards of behavior.” Is there actually an international standard or norm of behavior, or does the Western reaction toward the Ayatollah still represent the fact that there is a cultural gap between the East and West?

Ambassador Perry: My own opinion is that there are still some standards of international behavior. For example, I don’t think that you would have seen Saddam

See PERRY, page 2

Former Davidson trustee head Warner Hall dies

Charlotte minister was fighter for civil rights

By MARGARET CARROLL

Warner Hall, a Davidson College trustee for twenty-eight years—the last ten years as chairman—died on Monday after a prolonged illness. Throughout his life, Hall fervently fought against segregation from his pulpit at Covenant Presbyterian Church and in meetings with community leaders.

Hall came to Charlotte in 1946 as minister of Covenant Presbyterian Church, where he served as pastor until 1971 when he became executive director of the Presbyterian Foundation.

From 1965-77 Hall served as chairman of Charlotte’s Community Relations Committee, through which he took an active role in bettering race relations in Charlotte. Hall was chairman of the committee when it was debating the subject of scattered-site public housing.

On Tuesday The Charlotte Observer reports one incident in which a public official questioned Hall about people of different races and financial backgrounds living together in the same neighborhood. Hall responded, “I’ve lived on Queens Road for many years, and there is a black community only a few blocks away, and we have never had the slightest problem. These things can be done if we make up our minds it’s what we need to do.”

After the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Hall was instrumental in Charlotte’s avoiding outbursts of violence that were occurring in other major cities across the nation. By establishing communication between black leaders and city officials, Hall helped Charlotte to escape the rage.

Hall was born in Tennessee and received his Ph.D. from Edinburgh, his D.D. from Southwestern in Memphis and his L.H.D. from St. Andrews College and Davidson College. Hall was in 1961 the founding father of St. Andrews College in Laurinburg, North Carolina, which he helped create from a merger of old Flora MacDonald College in Red Springs and Presbyterian Junior College in Maxton.

Hall served as a St. Andrews trustee until 1966 and was a long-time trustee of Union Theological Seminary in Virginia. As The Charlotte Observer notes: “But it was his work in the field of race relations—his determination to apply the Christian faith as he understood it to the most troubling moral issue of his time—that won him the most admirers and a few bitter critics.”

Former trustee president Warner Hall.