; A computer memory card valued at $500 was stolen from an IBM in Chambers Basement. The theft occurred sometime prior to 9 a.m. Friday, September 8. Chambers Basement remained unlocked all night. There are no suspects although extensive computer knowledge was required to disengage the outer cabinet from the circuitry and to remove the Plus Hardcard.

Bike thefts
Two unsecured bicycles were stolen on Saturday, September 9. Paul Bennett Cardwell reported a $375, 18-speed Schwinn stolen from the front of Duke Dorm. Barring reported his bike missing from “B” NS.

Saab smashed
A black Saab 900S in the satellite parking lot was vandalized on Saturday, September 9. An unknown person smashed the right front passenger side turn signal and the parking light plastic casing.

Near injury of officer
Officer Terry Springs barely escaped injury last Saturday at 3:20 a.m. when he responded to a disturbance call at Duke Dorm. At the reported room, a trashcan full of ice was poised above a door. “It’s serious,” said Chief Jackie Hughes, “the trashcan just missed him. If he had rushed in, he would’ve been hit.”

Davidson crime
Thefts, vandals, pranks make it clear that Davidson has difficulty retaining African-American students. Four students departed last year because, according to Blake, “they were being denied their culture and history.” Immediately following the meeting’s adjournment, Helms talked to The Davidsonian about minorities at Davidson. Asked about the SGA’s position on this issue, Helms stated that, because it affects all students, a lot of concern is being raised by the student body--minorities as well as non-minorities. SGA will “determine what the problems are and identify which can be addressed by students,” said Helms. Asked if there is racism at Davidson, Helms candidly replied “yes.” “A lot of it has to do with ignorance,” he said. According to Helms, the SGA has already begun reducing ignorance by creating the ad hoc Student Minority Situation Committee. He hopes to promote unity within the student body.

Also discussed was junior Class President Josh Hickman’s concern that some rising juniors will be able to draw senior lottery numbers next spring. These rising juniors were moved from Knox to Belk this summer as a result of a housing crunch. Hickman’s primary worry is that these 12 rising juniors will have access to senior apartments. Senior Class President William Brewer expressed students’ difficulties with the CAT cards. Students feel the initial $5 fee is unfair because the card itself already benefits the college monetarily. Another difficulty with the card is that refunds on the remaining balance take up to three months to receive. Along with the minority situation, Helms identified student health issues--specifically AIDS, condoms, and health education--and campus security as the three main issues facing SGA in 1989-90.

Parking update
Davidson College Police are ticketing and towing cars that park on the side of the road on Patterson Court.is not allowed at any time, including meal and party hours. Also, there is now a two-hour parking limit on Main Street. The two-hour limit is enforced from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday (holidays excepted).

DIAL-A-SUB. Put in your order for the best subs in town -- Subway subs. Check out the menu below and give us a call.

COLD SUB
COLD CUT COMBO

Beyond Davidson to the world — By CAROL GATEWOOD

Last week the United States withdrew its embassy staff in Beirut after a full day of “government-sanctioned anti-American protests” by Lebanese Christians raised safety concerns. After the pullout, General Michael Aoun, the leader of the three-man Christian cabinet in power, warned U.S. Ambassador John McCarthy that the diplomat’s return would require a “presentation of credentials and the recognition of the Christian cabinet as the legitimate government.” Aoun and his two ministers are just one of the political factions in Lebanon trying to gain full power. Later the Christian cabinet issued a less threatening statement that urged the U.S. to reconsider its pullout.

COLOMBIAN DRUG WAR: In a special broadcast address to the nation, President Bush last week released new plans to help end the drug war in the U.S. that is interconnected with drug trafficking in Colombia. His announcement coincided with intelligence reports from administration officials indicating that the Colombian drug cartel “may have been badly hurt” from the new crackdown led by General Miguel Maza Marquez. In the past three weeks, authorities have collected over 11,000 suspects, but they haven't captured any of the top leaders of the Medellin and Cali cocaine cartels. In the meantime, traffickers have been responsible for several threats and bombings. U.S. officials state that corruption also prevents progress in efforts to capture drug traffickers.

See WAY BEYOND, page 6

SUBWAY CLUB (roast beef, turkey, ham)
BMT (ham, genoa, pepperoni, bologna)
SUPER COMBO
SUPER BMT
SUPER CLUB
TUNA
TUNA
TUNA
SEAFOOD & CRAB
ROAST BEEF
TURKEY BREAST
HAM & CHEESE

WHOLE WHEAT OR ITALIAN BREAD

MEATBALL 3.19 4.29
STEAK & CHEESE (100% sirloin)

ANY SANDWICH ALSO AVAILABLE AS A CUSTOM SALAD PLATE.

ALL SERVED WITH YOUR CHOICE OF:
* AMERICAN CHEESE
* ONIONS
* LETTUCE
* TOMATOES
* DILL PICKLES
* GREEN PEPPERS
* BLACK OLIVES
* SALT
* PEPPER & OIL

$1 OFF* ANY FOOTLONG
*With Purchase of a medium soft drink
One coupon per customer per visit
Offer expires: 10/3/89

SUBWAY
Norman Crossing Shopping Center
I-77 & Hwy. 73
Cornelius, NC 28031
892-6728