*&*&* THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75th Anniversary Issue %&%& & April 1989

The DAVIDSONIAN. April 1, 1914

AMERICAN TRUST CO. (DAVIDSON BRANCH)
Capital and Undivided Profits $625,000.00

COMMERCIAL BANKING
Accounts received subject to check. Every facility offered customers consistent with safe business methods.

SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
Four Per Cent interest, payable quarterly, allowed on savings deposits.

TIME CERTIFICATES
Four Per Cent. Certificates of Deposit issued in exchange for funds that are to remain for three months or more.

PRINTING
Orders for all kinds of Society and Commercial Printing, Engraved Cards, Wedding Invitations, Etc. Promptly and correctly executed. Inquiries Solicited.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Because all the boys send their Clothes to MAYHEW’S SUITORIUM
The shop that pleases
Let Us Press You
We put the steam roller crease on your pants
Mayhew Mayhew Mayhew.

"Is that the correct time?" You hear this question often. When in doubt call and have me examine your watch
and keep it in good repair. I also carry a line of WATCHES, CLOCKS AND JEWELRY.
W. M. TORRENCE

Brown-Knox Mercantile Company
We cordially invite you to come to our store and inspect our stock of GENERAL MERCHANDISE.
HOLE PROOF HOSIERY
A Complete Line.
FLORSHEIM SHOES
For Dress Wear and Hard Service.
A FULL LINE OF UNDERWEAR
B. V. D.’s
The Kind That Keep You Cool. Positively Guaranteed. Not high in price, but High in Quality.

DAVIDSON WINS FIRST GAME
Defeats Catawba College by Score of 8-1.

Davidson started off the baseball season Monday, March 23rd, by defeating the boys from Catawba. Although outhit, Davidson showed superior
work in the field and on the bases, and at no time was the outcome in doubt. Davidson took the
lead in the second by piling up seven runs, and after this it was merely a matter of finishing the
nine innings. There was just one outstanding feature of the game, and that was the poor fielding of the visitors.
It looked as if it was impossible for them to hold the ball. From a Davidson standpoint, the game was
all that one could expect except for the poor hitting, and this is sure to improve in the next few
days as soon as the men have more practice against curve balls. The team fielded in almost perfect style, only
one bobble occurring during the game, and this came at a time when no harm could be done. Osteen and
Currie showed up in mid-season style. Panella had a little hard luck at first, but managed to pull himself out
of a deep hole in the eighth in such a way that he showed that he could deliver the goods.
The score by innings was as follows:

123456789—r.h.e.
Catawba . . .000000010—1 4 5
Davidson . . .07010000x—8 3 1

Struck out by Osteen, 6; by Currie, 5; Panella, 1; Rome, 3. Stolen bases: Christenbury, Walker, Witherington. Sacrifice hits: Watkins.
Innings pitched by Osteen, 4; Currie, 3; Panella, 2; Rome, 9; Umpire, Cranford.

OAK RIDGE WINS IN 11TH

On Thursday it was doubtful whether the game would be played or not on account of the rain, but the
sun coming out, the game began on time. However, Davidson should have won the game several times before the nine
innings were up. The men were daring upon the bases, and took some chances that nine out of ten times
would have been sure, but as it happened, Davidson got that tenth time in each case. But the players and
the team that take chances on the bases instead of sleeping, Davidson can expect great things in the coming games.

“Bill” pitched one of the best games that has ever been twirled on the hill. Just think! he would have
had a no-hit game to his credit—“if the wind had only blown the other way.” He held them at his
mercy up to the eleventh inning, when a wild peg dashed from his hand. In the first inning Oak Ridge
was back to the bench on three strikes which he was unable to solve. Adackey grounded to Pete, and Hook
dittoed in like manner, second to first. For the Electrics, our chances for piling up a few scores looked prosperous
when Christenbury walked, Keesler bunted, and the pitcher endeavoring to catch the bunt, stumped his toe, and knocked the ball
out of the diamond. Christenbury saw that third was desolate of a player, so he made a daring effort to
purloin it. The ground being wet and heavy made speed difficult, and “Shorty” who picked up the ball, tagged him
out in a very close decision. Stough came up with his teeth gritted and smashed one for a single. Keesler
stopped at third, when theThe ball was turned in and endeavored to score when the pitcher whipped the ball to
second to catch Stouch. Two perfect pegs were made and he was out. Crayton made the third out. Davidson had
several other chances to score. In the eleventh, Britton, for Oak Ridge, got a Texas over first, Bland sacrificed him
down. Upchurch hit to left and Keesler made a wild throw to third and Britton scored. Hook next drove one
to center and scored Upchurch. Haisted made the third out. Davidson came in and the best rooting of the year
was made when the students gathered near. Currie, batting for Watkins, walked, Osteen singled to center. Christenbury struck out, Kessler
then hit to short. Stough then came up and drove one to deep right which looked like a home run,
but the right fielder got under it and "church was out," in favor of Oak Ridge, 2 to 0.

DAVIDSON FEDERALS.

The National Federal League has caused to spring into existence one of similar nature here within our own midst. Composing
this most distinguished and celebrated nine there are those—with reference to the Varsity—who would if they could, and others who
could if they would. To this latter class belong such "ringers" of many a professional contest as Woods, Marsh, McDonald,
and Bradfield. Under the very efficient management of Choate, and inspiring leadership of Capt. Woods, a most formidable aggregation has
been woven together.

On the 23rd they took an extensive tour to the city of Huntersville and there walloped that strong team to
the tune of 22 to 2. The outlaws played unusually fine ball to have been together for such a short
time. The features were the superb pitching of James, the field work of McDonald and Woods, and the all-around hitting
of the entire team. Federal line-up: Marsh, l.f.; Dulin, c.f.; James, p.; McKinnon, 2b; Woods, 3b; McDonald, s.s.; Choate, 1b;
Elliott, c.; Bradfield, r.f.

DAVIDSON 18, TERRELL 0.

The game last Saturday with Red Whitner's "Gingeress" was a farcical affair. It was a free-for-all merry-go-round game, and the
final score was 18 to 9. The country lads could certainly hit the pill, and landed on the second squad
pitchers, W. Joel Smith, Shaw, and McNair for quite a few bingles.

"LIVE WIRE" DOPE.

Plenty Pep is the word, everyone be a booster, everybody behind the team, then Davidson is bound to win. Rill
certainly pitched some ball last Thursday, and they were breaking beautifully. Never mind, that kind of slab work is sure
to win nine times out of ten. Christenbury beat out several infield balls last week in big league style. In
practice last week, "Slim" Glover pilfered second in Ty Cobb fashion. That pep in the eleventh inning was great. But
next time, what about starting it a little earlier?

By the way, "Bugs" Robinson, one of the assistant cheer leaders, did not come back after Xmas. Why not elect
another at once, and also another extra, so that there will be enough to lead the pep. Guilford today, everybody
be out! Batting and fielding averages will be started in the next Davidsonian. If Catawba lost, did Bill Winn? The
students are glad to see Cal. Skit out at all of the games. The Davidson Feds will have several games
during the coming week, so says the manager. Coach Cook requests that everyone keep away from the players' benches during
the game. Six more big games on the Hill. If you have any friends in nearby towns, send them a
schedule and invite them over.

"Long Boy" Johnson stepped over 5 feet 11 inches on Thursday afternoon, and on Saturday he cleared 5 feet 11
inches by a good inch. If he keeps on, he will go over the moon soon. Gilchrist is in great
form, and we look for him to smash to pieces some track records on the cinder path during the coming
month. The University of South Carolina is coming up for a meet on the 4th of April, and they have
a strong track team. The University of North Carolina football squad will train next August at Lake Kanuga, near Hendersonville.
Box score of Varsity games will be started in the next issue.

QUEENS COLLEGE GLEE CLUB CONCERT.

The concert given Monday night, the 23rd, by the Queens College Glee Club, of nineteen voices, was one of the
finest concerts given here this year. The audience was unusually appreciative and the applause elicited by the allusion to "a
little Davidson student" could hardly be surpassed. Miss Smith's violin playing, too, was excellent. After the concert, a reception was
given the performers by the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet and the Orchestra and Glee Club. Mrs. Martin, Mrs. Arbuckle, Mrs. Currie, and
Miss Shaw received. The reading room was used as usual, and presented a scene unusual for Davidson receptions, as there
were no more men than ladies present.

STAG DANCE ENJOYABLE EVENT.

An enjoyable event of the week breaking the monotony of routine work was the stag dance given in the Commencement
Hall last Saturday evening by the German Club. Music was furnished by Monsieur Morrison's select trio of musicians. There will
be another dance next Saturday night at which everyone is invited. Admission, 10 cents. Tango and all latest dances permitted.
9 o'clock to...
