6

Wednesday, September 20, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

International Fest '89: Bringing the world to Davidson

Different costumes and countries, but Maja Berlin from West Germany and Debolina Mukherjee from India found something in common to smile about.

Douglas shows his dad, Union director William Brown, a wooden Japanese toy on display at the International Festival.

Photo by Bonita Paysour

Photo by Bonita Paysour

Employees from the Pottery Exchange, a Charlotte store that specializes in African art and culture, helped students set up the African exhibit Saturday.

Warner Wells and Maja Berlin show that women and men can look sexy in a skirt.

Photo by Nancy Green

Photo by Nancy Green

CHINA, from page 5

was shocked at the harshness of the government's action against the students. After the brutality of their actions, it was essential to the government that they cover it up, he said, noting that they would be unable to explain to their people that they told the army to fire upon unarmed students. The cover-up was a logical step in the government's handling of the entire affair, he said.

Holland does not think that the Chinese believed the government's lies; however, he said it is unlikely that they would directly express their beliefs. It is very dangerous to live in China at this time, he said, likening living in China to living in Orwell's 1984.

“It was not prudent to ask questions,” he pointed out. A person could be jailed for being a “rumor-monger.” It was a bad time to be a student, teacher, or a worker, as they were being executed frequently, and there was word of secret executions as well, he added.

Holland mentioned that most of his knowledge of the situation around him came from talking to people and listening to shortwave radios. He had access to people who acted as interpreters to students. These people would return and tell them what was happening. He was also able to see a great deal from the street where his house was located for it led right into Tiananmen Square. People wanted to know what was going on, but they were reluctant to ask someone for fear of getting that person in trouble, Holland said.

“You did not want to cheer others on to a tragic end,” he said. “You did not want to intrude, nor did you want to treat the affair as entertainment.”

WSOC, WBTV, and The Charlotte Observer used Holland as a resource in their news stories. He confirmed reports of the massacre by telephone and added to them by talking to the people in his hotel.

Holland said that calls out were monitored; it was best to wait for the television station to call him rather than trying to call the television station himself.

The American Embassy moved the Hollands from university housing to a hotel close to the embassy--fearing that the university would be a prime target for the army. The boulevard that the hotel was located on led straight into the square.

The Hollands were told to leave soon thereafter. They were driven out to the airport through two barricades.

There was a rumor circulating that the army would be going after the airport, he said. There was a possibility that there would be no seats left on the planes. They were fortunate to get seats, which they purchased with foreign currency.

When the Hollands first arrived in China and were driven to Beijing, there were hundreds of people doing exercises on the side of the street. The air was clear and the sky was bright.

When they were driven down that same road several months later, the scene was entirely different. No one was out--the fields were empty of people and all the Hollands could see were the remains of wooden barricades.