Monday, February 6, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bride of the Son of “JYA Journal”: The Final Chapter

Sailing for credit
-Peter Bream
Semester sailor

People ask me what I did last semester and I have a difficult time explaining just exactly what went on.
They just don’t seem to understand how much hard work it is sailing a 135-foot sailing vessel in the Caribbean
Sea in November. I mean, the temperature never fell below 85 degrees, and I got a bad sunburn. Besides, my
Thanksgiving dinner of rum punch and Cheetos was less than memorable.

I did a program called Sea Semester. It is offered year-round by an independent organization called the Sea Education Association
located in Woods Hole, Mass. It consists of two components, one on shore and one at sea, each six weeks
long. During the shore component, students stay in houses on campus and study introductory oceanography, nautical science, and a humanities-based
course called Maritime History. Each program has 50 students from all over the United States, most from the northeast. The
sea component follows the shore component, provided you pass the courses.

The sea component is why I really did the program. SEA owns two staysail schooners, the 125-foot Westward and the
135-foot Corwith Cramer. Twenty-five students and eleven professional crew are on board each, and embark on a six-week journey that
is like nothing one will ever experience, or can describe. The primary mission of these two vessels is oceanographic research,
but the students conduct independent experiments of their own design. The lab on board is manned 24 hours a day,
and I'll gladly do any lab in third floor Dana during the afternoon instead of counting copepods at three in
the morning at a 15-degree heel. The boat is also hand-steered by the students at all times. We were responsible
for the daily cleaning, cooking, and basic research, and by the end of the cruise, for the navigation, plotting, and
sail handling of the 250-ton two-masted ship.

To accomplish this, we were split up into three watches, and your particular number designated the chores performed during the
watch. Generally, there were eight to a watch, three on deck, three in the lab, one assisting the engineer, and
one cleaning the dishes or cooking. Freshwater showers were allowed only in port, and saltwater was used for bathing and
laundry at sea. I used “Joy” for my body, clothes, dishes, and anything else that needed cleaning. At least everything
was lemony fresh.

My cruise went from Woods Hole to Antigua, West Indies, and then slalomed the Lesser Antilles down to Grenada. After
that, we went up to a small island called Carriacou, and disembarked in St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands. The
experience is difficult to sum up in a few words, but I think people from Davidson would be interested in
this program. It’s a great way to get credit away from Davidson. It’s not always easy, learn to laugh.

-D.J. SNELL
Ambassador to England and France

I reclined on a sofa last December with some photographs from my months in Europe. Having returned to the States
only two days before, most everything I saw, heard, or did reminded me of some incident in Europe. I had
put a Jimmy Buffett cassette in my stereo in an attempt to ease back into our distinctive American culture (more
particularly that of the South). I laughed along with the first song, Cheeseburger in Paradise, because after six months in
Europe I had longed for such American trivialities as hamburgers, pancakes, fried chicken, and broccoli. Yes, France does have incredible
food, but sometimes you crave some basic “down-home” cooking.

The first line of the next song, however, intrigued me, setting my mind in motion as the remainder of the
tape faded into background music. Buffett sang, “He went to Paris looking for answers to questions that bothered him so.”
I began to think about why I went to Europe, why I went to Cambridge for the summer, and why
I went to Strasbourg, France, for the fall. Originally, I chose to go for all the “proper” reasons. I wanted
to finally learn to speak French after having attended hundreds of classes. I wanted to see a different culture. I
wanted to see the wonderful sights and works of art heralded by history books and college professors. I wanted to
see the England that had such a tremendous influence on our history. With camera in hand, I wanted to see
all!

Was I successful? Yes. My travels covered England, Wales, Scotland, Belgium, Germany, Denmark, Norway, East and West Berlin, Italy, France,
Monaco, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Austria, and Yugoslavia. After four months in France living with a widow, my French improved remarkably. I
was able to live in Cambridge, one of the premier intellectual centers of our time. Now, however, as I look
back, I realize that I was much more “successful” than I had ever hoped to be. I learned about something
I never dreamed of: I learned about myself.

To go to Europe to speak a language is great. To go to Europe in order to marvel at the
wonders of ages past is fantastic. To meet people from all over the world is wonderful. For me, however, the
most important aspect of my sojourn in Europe was learning about myself, seeing sides I had never seen before. As
I boarded the Delta jet in Atlanta on July 2, I was a confident young man, eager to “conquer” Europe.
Less than twelve hours later I was a timid American huddling in a corner of a metro car all alone,
using my backpack and suitcase to shield myself from the glares of all the other people in the train whose
eyes seemed to be locked on me. I was alone, tired, and hungry in the bowels of the huge expanse
of dreary, rainy London. I was not a happy camper!

Soon all was better as I found myself in Cambridge with my Davidson friends. Still, I would never have guessed
that two months later I would be traveling to Rome on a night train all by myself. Through all my
travels I learned that I had to be more flexible and adaptable. I had lived my life expecting certain things
to happen in certain ways. Davidson has an ordered style. I would learn that this could not always be the
case. One weekend, a friend and I decided to go to Scotland on one of our Cambridge weekends. Despite the
warnings of our friends, we confidently decided to take a night train. What a disaster! How could we have known
that clever British Rail workers had designated...Is our seat the only non-smoking seat in the car? How could we have
known that the train would stop at every little village along the way, that the lights inside would vacillate maddeningly
all night between a blaring, bright intensity to dim to completely off and back to bright again? Frustrated by the
cramped quarters, I tried to stretch out on the floor beneath our seats, but the noise of the train tracks
and the passing of feet at eye level rendered sleep impossible. My companion and I draped shirts over our heads
and listened to our Walkman radios. Finally, around 4:30 a.m., we went to sleep. We reached Glasgow just after 5
a.m. Despite that horrible train ride without sleep, the rest of the weekend was marvelous and Scotland was truly enchanting.
After four more months in Europe, night trains became the norm. I had learned to adapt even though I still
preferred a stationary bed.

My term of study in France offers other examples of how I changed. Despite its western ways, France is still
very different from the United States. The showers provide a case in point. The normal French shower consists of only
a bathtub and a shower nozzle on a hose. There is no shower curtain. There is no place to stick
the gadget in the wall so you can stand under it. Needless to say, I made a mess of the
bathroom for the first week. After I had gone to my room, my French mother would go to the bathroom
and discover everything in the room dripping wet. “Oh, my little fish,” she would cry out in French as I
shrugged my shoulders in frustration. Finally, I learned how to contain the water by sitting down and enduring what my
friends and I referred to as a “hose down.” By the end of the semester, I had the system down
pat but still was looking forward to the good old American “power shower.”

Other aspects of French life could be equally exasperating. The strikes provide an excellent example. Nobody strikes like the French.
During my semester, the air controllers, train workers, bus drivers, Parisian metro workers, aluminum factory workers, pharmacies, hospitals of Strasbourg,
nurses, electric plant workers, teachers, and, yes, even the students all went on strike. The worst of all strikes was
the dreaded postal strike that endured for two months. Though irritated throughout the ordeal, I came to realize that getting
angry did nothing, just like becoming angry on the train to Glasgow accomplished nothing, but only made one more miserable.
So I learned to laugh. In fact, every morning as I went into the dining room for breakfast, I would
ask my French mother, “Who's on strike today?” One morning she replied that the farmers were on strike. I chuckled,
joking that they would probably drive their tractors into town and shut off traffic to make their point. Believe it
or not, they did.

Despite the lessons of patience I learned, I have not perfected my ability to be flexible, nor will I ever.
We all have our threshold, and trying to get from Ljubljana, Yugoslavia, to Strasbourg, France, made mine painfully evident. On
a long weekend trip, I had traveled to Florence and Venice in Italy and then went to Yugoslavia. I had
hoped to be back in time for class Monday afternoon, but a real comedy of errors put me a full
day behind schedule, as one gap in communication after another pushed my patience to its limit. First, the station attendant
in Zurich forgot that the train I needed did not run on Sundays and so directed me to wait until
11 p.m. for it. When at midnight I finally realized it was not coming, I was not the same upset
D.J. of the London Tube almost five months earlier. In fact, I had a wonderful time and got to meet
some Yugoslavian natives and talked with one in particular about life and school in Yugoslavia. I was to leave at
7:10 a.m. the next day, so I opted to spend the night at the local YMCA. I had no idea
that the hotel there had a curfew from midnight to 7 a.m. during which time no one could leave or
enter. Naturally, on this morning, the attendant came to unlock the building five minutes late, so that by the time
I had run to the train station, my train had departed. Now, I had almost reached my threshold, but I
was still in control and even managed to laugh about the situation.

Later that day, I got another train, this one going through Stuttgart rather than Zurich as I had planned earlier.
The lady at the desk told me that my Zurich ticket would be fine, so I boarded the train in
good faith. First, the ticket collector required me to pay him more because this train was an “express train.” I
had barely enough German currency to pay him. Then, 30 minutes out of Stuttgart, another man checking tickets told me
that mine was not even valid in Germany and that I would have to buy a $70 ticket. We argued
for at least half an hour. I refused to pay and he refused to let me stay. Finally, when we
arrived in Stuttgart, he explained that I had two options. I could buy the ticket or I could give him
my passport and stay in Germany. Furious and frustrated, I pleaded with the man. “Give me a break, please,” I
said. “What?” he replied with a puzzled expression in broken English, “You need more time to think about it.” “No,”
I sighed, exasperated by the situation and the language barrier. He then “escorted” me to the exchange office where I
changed some travelers' checks and then bought the necessary ticket. I must admit that the attendant was right in all
that he said and did. I had had a ticket through Zurich that could not be used in Germany. I
was misinformed, that’s all.

So, then what is the point of this and the other stories? At Davidson, we are in a small, self-contained
world in which everything fits together. We are in a safe environment we all know and understand. When you travel
and study or work abroad, you are taken out of your environment where you are secure and dropped into an
area where you must face a whole different group of people, a different culture, and probably a different language. How
you react to that new environment and new situation will reveal a lot about you. Do not be afraid to
look at yourself and see something you have never seen before.

See SON OF, page 6
