14 RESPONSIBILITY, from page 10, recommends the use of a spermicidal lubricant with at least a 6.5% concentration of nonoxynol-9,
along with a condom, to prevent AIDS. If condoms are distributed in first aid boxes placed on dormitory halls, as
suggested by Dr. Kuykendall, the boxes should also contain the type of spermicide mentioned above.

In a classic example of a journalistic red herring, Mr. Miller states that the “[AIDS] virus is many times smaller
than the human sperm” in an attempt to infer that a condom’s effectiveness in preventing AIDS is lower than their
effectiveness in preventing pregnancy. A reader is left to infer from Mr. Miller’s statement that because the AIDS virus is
smaller than sperm, the former will often “slip through” the protection of a condom. A distorted statement like this one
comes from being uneducated about latex condoms [latex condoms, as opposed to natural-skin condoms, are the only ones recommended for
preventing sexually transmitted diseases]. According to Consumer Reports, latex condoms when stretched “won’t even let water—one of the tiniest molecules—filter
through.”

Mr. Miller argues against sex education and easy access to contraceptives by quoting Barrett Mosbaker as saying, “for the past
17 years, the prescribed ‘solution’ to the teenage pregnancy problem [and now the AIDS problem] has consisted of sex education...and
easy access to contraceptives. Yet despite 17 years of effort and the expenditure of more than $2 billion, pregnancy and
abortion rates continue to climb.” In this connection, Mr. Miller negates the value of sex education and easy access to
contraceptives. He even presents sex education and the availability of contraceptives as somehow a cause of high pregnancy and abortion
rates. Mr. Miller fails to look at global examples where these very practices have been highly successful at preventing abortion
and pregnancy. Western European countries, especially those in Scandinavia, have proven that progressive sex education and availability of contraception do,
indeed, lower pregnancy and abortion rates.

After spending three and a half months in Sweden, I saw firsthand the positive aspects of these measures. Sweden has
an incredibly progressive sex education program, starting at a very young age, and contraceptives are very accessible. In fact, in
light of the current AIDS problem, the Swedish government sent condoms to every male sixteen years old and above. The
result of these progressive practices speaks for themselves when one takes Sweden’s incredibly low number of teenage pregnancies and AIDS
cases into account. As I can personally attest, Sweden’s more “liberal” attitudes concerning sex education and the availability of contraceptives
did not promote promiscuity but, oppositely, instilled in Swedish youth an incredibly mature attitude towards sex.

Refuting the tireless claims of the Surgeon General, Dr. Kimmel, and AIDS experts around the world, Boyd Miller argues against
the claim that condoms are effective means to stop the spread of the AIDS virus. He seems to believe that
because condoms are not 100% effective, they need not be considered by Davidson College as a method to protect students
from AIDS. Mr. Miller, along with many people embroiled in the Davidson condom controversy, fails to see the present demographics
of the AIDS virus. The rate of infection among homosexuals is declining because of safe sex practices which include condom
use. Just as seat belts are not 100% effective in preventing traffic fatalities, it doesn’t change the fact: seat belts
save lives. Condoms also save lives.

It is clear that Mr. Miller showed an absence of responsibility by presenting distorted facts and uneducated statements in the
midst of an AIDS crisis where factual education is of paramount importance. The question of responsibility, however, still remains, raising
serious questions Davidson needs to answer. Is it responsible for Davidson not to provide the opportunity for students that choose
to have sex in a heat-of-the-moment situation, to protect themselves? Is Davidson being responsible if it denies such instances occur?
Is Davidson being ethical if it takes the stance that students who get themselves into such situations justly deserve the
outcome because they didn’t think ahead to buy a supply of condoms? Will Davidson College be able to responsibly say
five years from now that the wallets of trustees or the...“Image” of a Presbyterian college was worth the life of
a student who wasn’t “responsible?” Brennan Guth is a freshman from Missoula, Mont.

FAITH, from page 12

Even when you don’t love yourself, there is another kind. Consider for the moment the fundamental teachings of Christianity that
have existed from its birth and continued throughout the ages. There is a heaven and a hell and a judgment.
You should be very suspicious of those who ignore this doctrine in talking to you about Christianity. Christ mentioned Hell
in multifold circumstances, and if you read them even superficially, you will realize He wasn’t being allegorical. Decide if you
must that the writings and teachings of Christ were actually a sociological device, or a coincidence, or grossly exaggerated, or
even a mere story, but if you pay attention to anything He says, do not miss this important circumstance.

The Christians you should be wary of are the ones who feel satisfied believing the saving message of Christianity, and
then for some odd reason, feel as if there’s no need to tell anyone else about it. Imagine, if you
will, someone driving down a dark road at night, and for no apparent reason, he slams on the brakes and
brings his car to a jarring halt. As he steps out of the car, he notices a large ditch directly
in the road which he would have driven into had he not miraculously stopped. Now suppose that this person turned
around, relieved and thankful that he had stopped, and drives the other way. As he drives, he sees other cars
driving down the road in the direction from which he had just come. What would you think of this individual
if he didn’t attempt to warn those other unknowing individuals of the ditch he had escaped? It is the same
with the Christian who doesn’t warn you that someday all men will be judged by God for their lives. The
judgment will NOT be “good” or “bad,” but rather, “forgiven” or “unforgiven.” You can pay for your sins yourself, or
let someone else.

Perhaps now you can be patient with Christians trying to convert you; they are merely obeying orders and their own
conscience. Now, just who is this article for anyway? It is not for those who have already arrived at an
irrevocable decision, for or against. It is for those who waver and wonder if there are others in the community
who maintain faith. It is all right to believe that Jesus was real and cares about you today. It is
all right to trust Him as Savior, because you don’t have to abandon your mind to do so. Finally, at
all costs, do not shut the door on faith. Someday, God Himself may reveal His glory to you in a
way that will be far more meaningful to you than any terse, self-absorbed newspaper article, or any other human convention
could do. Do not judge Christianity by what you see in Christians, for they are not Christ yet, and our
interest in you in no way can express the fullness of His interest in you. Ultimately, Christianity is this: A
renewal of a relationship with God, the melting down of the old man in the presence of Christ, and the
creation of the new. If there are those who seek this, let them put their hope anew in Christ. Amen.

Joe Thomas is a junior biology major from Morristown, NJ. Thanks to Tinsley Bates for her creative inspiration on this
piece.

TUX RENTALS
FORMALS BY
Miami Vice © After Six © Raffinati © Bill Blass
Pierre Cardin © Christian Dior © Lord West
Yves Saint Laurent

MANY TUXES ON DISPLAY (ACCESSORIES AVAILABLE)
Also FORMALS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Proms © Weddings © Formals
Order Early

Occasion Shop
Town Square, Cornelius
892-9129

Wide Selection © Low Prices
Hometown Service

Recycle a Mello Yello can, recycle The Davidsonian, recycle a Coca-Cola bottle, recycle The Davidsonian, recycle your ex-boyfriend, recycle The
Davidsonian, recycle your best friend’s ex-boyfriend, recycle The Davidsonian, recycle all your paper products, recycle The Davidsonian, recycle anything that
hasn’t turned green and moldy in your room, recycle The Davidsonian, recycle whatever turns you on, recycle The Davidsonian, drink
Dr. Pepper, donate $7,031.25 to The Davidsonian, have a nice day.
