Wednesday, October 11, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

President thanks all who helped after Hugo:

Dear Members of the Davidson College Community,

While it is certainly not true that it takes a crisis to bring out the best in the Davidson community,
it is nevertheless obvious that the events surrounding Hurricane Hugo provided the opportunity for the free expression of those characteristics
that make this College such a special place.

All of us owe a debt of gratitude to those members of the College staff who responded quickly and efficiently
to difficult and potentially hazardous circumstances on campus. Their untiring labors in our behalf throughout the weekend have made it
possible for an early and relatively normal reopening of school while most of our neighbor institutions remain closed. The expertise
of our support staff throughout these past several days has been equaled only by their loyalty and good humor in
the doing of the job.

A special word of thanks is also due to the numerous Davidson students who took the weekend's adversity as an
opportunity for service rather than an occasion for dissatisfaction or despair. While it is obviously impossible to say thanks individually
to each person who has participated in the clean-up process, I trust that the gratitude of the entire community for
your services is felt in a special way.

Much remains to be done. The sound of the chainsaw will be heard on this campus for a good many
weeks to come, and the beautiful trees that have fallen here and there along our regular paths of life will
be missed long after the debris has been carried away. Nevertheless, we can all be thankful for the fact that
we have thus far avoided serious personal injury and that we are able to resume activities at the College so
quickly. We can be especially thankful for each other as well for the ties that have been strengthened within this
community by our common experience of these past several days.

Thanks on behalf of the College to each member of the Davidson family for what you have done in bringing
about recovery thus far, and what you will continue to do as we work through the next several weeks to
return the campus to good order.

Sincerely yours,
John W. Kuykendall

Hugo's saints

Dear Editor,

Here's a great big thank you to the college students who helped us clear our yard of the debris caused
by Hurricane Hugo. I was trying to clean the front yard on Friday afternoon when three young men from the
SCA [Editor’s note: Society for Creative Anachronism] appeared and completed the clearing. They had also helped the Volunteer Fire Department
in other parts of town. They would not take any money.

Then on Wednesday the next week, eight members of Pi Kappa Alpha made arrangements to clean up our backyard. They
worked pleasantly and diligently, finishing the whole job in an hour. Again, free.

Too often we hear of the noise, hijinks, and generally adolescent behavior of college students. During this crisis, they showed
how thoughtful they can be. We appreciated it.

Sincerely,
Mary Fetter Stough
Resident of North Main St.

KAPPA ALPHA PSI, from page 18

"Won't you just be separating yourselves from the rest of the campus?"

The answer to the first question is, in our minds, simple. The fraternities presently at Davidson do not provide the
majority of Black males with the satisfying brotherhood and commonality that we feel a chapter of the Kappa Alpha Psi
Fraternity would provide. Many of us do not feel comfortable with the surroundings, customs, or traditions of these fraternities. However,
for those Blacks who do, we encourage them to participate in whichever organization makes them feel comfortable.

The answer to the second question is an adamant "NO"! We are no more trying to separate ourselves from the
rest of the campus than are KA, SAE, Sig Ep, Phi Delt, Kappa Sigma, or Pika. We are simply a
group of guys, just like they are, who have something in common, just like they do, who want to officially
form an organization of brotherhood, just like they did. Although the fact that we are composed of Blacks and a
Puerto Rican may have been a factor in exposing us to similar backgrounds, it is not the sole reason we
want this fraternity. Would we be questioned about separating from the campus if everyone were colorblind? It’s doubtful.

Therefore, for these stated major reasons and many others, we have chosen to pursue this cause. There were questions by
some about our intentions and this letter was written to answer those questions and to officially inform...the student body of
our goal. We would appreciate the support and encouragement of the student body and of anyone else who might have
an interest.

The Davidson College Charter Chapter Interest Group of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

The Dober report: pretty, not practical

After studying the campus for two years, Dober, Lidsky, Craig & Associates have drawn up their plan for the college’s
future. President Kuykendall stresses that this plan represents a philosophy for upcoming development, not a blueprint demanding strict adherence. A
shortage of funds and possible property battles dictate that not all of the recommendations put forth by the Dober plan
will be followed. But even judging the plan solely on its underlying philosophy, serious questions should be raised as to
whether Davidson wishes to embrace the same direction.

One problem with the plan is that it alienates the town of Davidson. Charles Craig, while presenting the report, acknowledged
the need to preserve the special relationship between the college and town. Yet in the proposal, the campus envelops Main
Street and reroutes town traffic on a “by-pass.” Most Main Street merchants won’t respond too kindly to being cut off
from the direct flow of traffic. The by-pass also serves to separate us even more from “the other side of
the tracks.” If we want to be part of the town, we must work to incorporate the whole town, not
just the quaint store fronts we include on campus.

Another problem is the question of practicality. Just who is the college designed to attract and serve? The recent shift
to focus beyond the campus to making a national impression may be moving too far if it takes attention away
from the students who currently make up the college. For example, the Dober report wants to permanently block the road
around the campus at Johnston Gym and route all traffic and parking to the perimeters of campus. Aesthetically, a strictly
pedestrian campus would look nice, but as one student pointed out at the meeting, what about the safety concerns already
associated with current satellite lots late at night? Craig’s response to this was simply that we need to increase campus
security.

The plan also suggests leveling the current laundry building and relocating that service somewhere else, perhaps the warehouse on Delburg
Street. That way it would be accessible to Main Street, but how many students live near Main Street? For students
living on-campus, the laundry is currently in an ideal location. Craig also mentions the need to move the infirmary since
its current building is “too large.” He suggests the college warehouse again as a possible temporary site. Ask any infirmary
nurse or any student who has waited two or three hours in line if the present building is too large.
Any money designated for improving the infirmary would be much better spent fixing up the infirmary’s existing home.

Davidson needs to strike a balance between the pretty and the practical. Davidson College is the students, faculty, and staff.
The buildings and land exist to serve the College.

—jlh

Hugo's Lesson

For many people in the Davidson community, Hurricane Hugo was the first natural disaster ever witnessed, or the most devastating,
in some cases. All were violently reminded of the might of nature and the weakness and energy of human beings.
Davidson is lucky. The majority of us still have a roof over our heads, lights, and running water. Sure, huge
trees are littering the entire campus, but we are still alive and we have been given a chance to return
to normalcy. That is not the case for many Carolinians.

In my opinion, the greatest lesson learned by the storm is that one’s blessings and entire existence should not be
taken for granted. Victims of the storm are for the first time learning to be resourceful, patient, and frugal. They
are learning to do without the luxuries we take for granted here in the United States but which are unavailable
in large parts of the world. Suffering has built a bond between neighbors who were previously strangers. No one will
forget Hurricane Hugo. Stories of how one survived it will be told and retold. Without doubt, Hurricane Hugo was a
disaster, but it was also a character-building experience.

—m.m.
