Religion professor David Kaylor holds his newest book, which received a smash review last week in The Davidsonian.

Photo by Alex Hayden

Creative Writing Awards

Submissions are currently being accepted for the Vereen Bell and R. Windley Hall creative writing awards and the Charles E. Lloyd essay award. All submissions must reach a member of the English department by 5 p.m., Friday, March 31. No name should appear on any manuscript itself, but name, address, phone number, and title should be on a separate enclosed sheet of paper.

The Vereen Bell Award for creative writing is open to all students above the freshman class. Prizes of $75, $50, and $25 will be awarded for first, second, and third place respectively. Entries must be original fiction, poetry, or drama. Students may submit in as many categories as they wish. Poems should be submitted as groups. Entries must be typed, double-spaced (poetry may be single-spaced) and must be on one side of the sheet only.

The R. Windley Hall Award is a creative writing award for freshmen only. The first prize winner will receive $50, and second place will win $25. All rules for this award are the same as those for the Vereen Bell competition.

The Charles E. Lloyd Award is open to all students above the freshman class. Submissions must be essays. This includes term papers and original textual analysis, personal essays, persuasive essays, and satire or humor. Entries are limited to fifteen pages (containing one to three essays) and must be both typed and double-spaced. Entries will be judged on the basis of prose style, originality, clarity, structure, and substance.

Winners will be announced at the annual literary awards ceremony on Thursday, April 20, 7:30 p.m., in the 900 Room of the College Union. All entrants are expected to attend. The Vereen Bell Award will be judged by the distinguished Charleston, S.C. novelist, Josephine Humphreys, author of Dreams of Sleep and Rich in Love. The R. Windley Hall and Charles Lloyd Awards will be judged by another outside reader.

Hair Designer's Studio & Beauty Supplies

HWY. 115 (3 MILES N. OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE)
BOOKING APPOINTMENTS MON.-FRI. 10-4
OPEN TH. & FRI. 10-4 -- SAT. 9-3

Children’s Haircut & Style $3.00
Male or Female Haircut $5.00

892-7952 or 892-6982

Permanent Wave
Start
At $25.00

Visiting Philosophy Professor Publishes New Introduction to Feminist Thought

Rosemarie Tong, Davidson’s John Thatcher Professor of Medical Humanities, explores divisions in contemporary feminism in a book published this month by Westview Press of Boulder, Colo.

“Introduction to Contemporary Feminist Thought” provides an analysis of the six threads that make up the fabric of contemporary feminism. Tong explains that feminism is no longer a monolithic front, but that there are vast differences of opinion among feminist thinkers in the world.

Her discussion of liberal, radical, socialist, existential, psychoanalytic, and post-modern feminism leads her to the conclusion that contemporary women need to develop a program of action that speaks to the needs of a variety of women. “Is there a political position that is inclusive, that doesn’t alienate many women?” is the next question she would like to explore.

“A contemporary plan of action would ensure that society meets the needs and desires of many women,” Tong says. “The laws should allow as many women as possible to live good and do right.”

Tong formerly taught ethics and women’s issues courses at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass. In 1986, Tong was selected by the Carnegie Foundation and the Council for Advancement and Support of Education as the 1986 Professor of the Year in the United States. She has received grants from the Sloan, Ford, and Mellon Foundations for course development and was the Williams College Teacher of the Year in 1982. “Introduction to Contemporary Feminist Thought” is her fourth book.

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college; this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. college in Oxford. A special summer session is directed by WISC.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media, and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level government officials, who are also scholars, and by similar authorities in policy internships (with academic credit) in London.

Thursday, March 9, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN