Monday, April 24, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Davidson women’s tennis team raised its record to 9-6 with three victories last week. The Lady Cats defeated the University of Kalamazoo, East Tennessee State, and Appalachian State. The victories over ETSU and ASU raised the team’s conference record to 2-0.

Last Sunday, the Lady Cats traveled to Durham to play Kalamazoo. The match proved to be fairly easy, as Davidson won 8-1. Amy McNelis, Mary Beth Ruth, Virginia Hall, Jane Price, Laura Ross, and Alice Stubbs all won as the team swept the singles competition. The doubles teams of McNelis-Hall and Stubbs-Angela Rudert also won.

The team returned home Monday to open Southern Conference action against ETSU. The Buccaneers proved to be a surprisingly tough opponent as the Lady Cats had a hard-fought 6-3 victory. The team dropped the number one and two singles, and the number two doubles.

However, the rest of the squad came through with victories. Hall, Price, Rudert, and Stubbs all won in singles, while Ruth-Price and Stubbs-Rudert took their doubles matches. Unfortunately, the number one player, McNelis, injured her knee in the match and is out of action indefinitely.

Tuesday, the Lady Cats continued conference play against ASU. The Mountaineers were weaker than expected as Davidson won 9-0. Stubbs replaced the injured McNelis in the number one slot to lead the team. The other singles winners were Ruth, Hall, Price, Rudert, and Ross. In the doubles competition, Melissa Carr and Hall, Ruth-Price, and Stubbs-Rudert all won.

Coach Caroline Brown is fairly happy with her team’s performance so far. She is pleased with the strong singles play she has been getting; however, she is still concerned with the doubles play. In the next few matches, she plans to juggle the doubles lineup. Another change is the return of Marion Stone from Kenya. As a result of McNelis’ injury, Stone is being thrown right into the lineup.

Brown expected to have her conference squad set by last Friday. The Lady Cats play away against Hope and defending conference champion Furman next week.

Senior Jane Price delivers a powerful return for the Lady Cats. Price has proven herself competitive in singles and doubles this year.

Photo courtesy of Sports Information.

Women’s soccer gets varsity status

By GREG WORMUTH

The Trustee’s decision at the end of February to create a women’s varsity soccer team was major progress for the current women’s club soccer team.

The first big step to this goal was the club team’s movement into the North Carolina Women’s Soccer League last season. Previously, the Davidson club lacked league affiliation. This league offers a heightened caliber of play over the previous system of individually finding games with whomever would play.

As rising senior Ann Hicks stated, “We wanted to move into the league to illustrate that we could play well against competitive teams and could field dedicated players.”

The team has indeed done so, with a current record of 3-0.

The season began in early February with a 7-3 victory over the Salem College club team. After canceling a few games due to weather, the team followed with a 2-0 win over the Winston-Salem Wildcards and beat the Greensboro Sidekicks, 5-1.

The Lady Wildcats ended their season with a 2-0 lead over Fishfare, but a controversy over technicalities resulted in a Wildcat forfeit.

Hicks attributes much of the team’s success to a strong freshman class and hopes that they will continue to produce similar results next year, when the team faces varsity competition.

The women are eager for next year’s varsity status. The change will result in a larger budget for uniform and equipment purchases in addition to tough competition.

Correction

As Thomas R. Whipple kindly pointed out to us, a correction needs to be made from Larry Sledge’s IMACtion article in the last issue of The Davidsonian. Sledge wrote that the California Sons were the only volleyball team to beat the faculty in a game last season. Let it be known, APAXalypse Now (the equivalent to this season’s Beat John Mack team) also took a game from those faculty “Gods of Volleyball.” Thanks, Thomas, for bringing this to our attention. We stand corrected.

At Domino's Pizza?

PART-TIME JOB; FULL-TIME PAY.

At Domino's Pizza, Domino's Pizza® pays some of the best bucks in the business. Earn up to $10.00 an hour as a pizza delivery person. Part-time positions and flexible hours available. Call 896-8007 and cash in on your driving skills.

©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc.