16

Wrestling

Team sees light at Gardner-Webb

By HOLME OLTROGGE

The Davidson wrestling team went on the road for three of their last four dual matches of the season. With
three wrestlers on Wednesday night, February 8, the Cats encountered Wilkes in Wilkesboro, NC.

Sophomores Pete Buss, Joe Binns, and Eric Farmer wrestled two matches each. All came off the mat in humble defeat.

Saturday’s six-hour ride back from Atlanta seemed even longer as the Cats faced the Georgia Tech Yellowjackets. This time freshman
Chris Clark joined the other three on the trip. Clark and Buss wrestled one match each while Binns and Farmer
encountered two grueling matches. As Binns and Clark conceded in agreement, “We got hammered.”

But light finally dawned on the persistent Davidson wrestlers last Wednesday.

They met Gardner-Webb in Boiling Springs, NC, and came home with victories in five out of six matches. The Cats
not only defeated their opponents, but they also embarrassed them.

Captain Joe Binns wrestled at the 142 and 150-pound weight classes. He won both matches 14-5 and 13-5. Binns definitely
improved wrestling on his feet as he came away with 14 out of 20 team takedowns. At 158 and 167,
Chris Clark shut out one opponent with six points and manhandled the other 17-3. Eric Farmer pinned his man at
190 but lost the second match in the heavyweight class.

Last Wednesday’s sweet victories gave the Cats the boost they were looking for all year.

These individuals had been enduring injuries and vacancies in the lineup out of sheer persistence. It was time their patience
paid off. The season had been filled with frustrating defeats, but it was a relief that it ended on a
high note.

The Cats face Furman this Saturday in Greenville, SC.

Player profile: Jay Schmitt

By HOLME OLTROGGE
Jay Schmitt '90
Basketball
Mathematics major
6' 8"
220 pounds

Jay was at his computer, hooked up to the VAX system, working on his Data Structure & Algorithms (Mat 321)
assignment when I visited him. He had a few minutes before going to the gym to referee, of all sports,
an IMAC basketball game.

I apologized for not having a photo to print with this profile; perhaps he could provide a candid shot of
himself. No, Jay did not think he had anything, but his coed friend said she could find something. At this
suggestion, Jay could be heard groaning to himself, “Oh no! You’re not serious, are you?” Sure, Jay, why not?

Like many tall kids in school, Jay was plagued by the ever-obvious encouragement to “go out for basketball.” He did
not play on any organized team until the seventh grade when he went to the private Montgomery Bell Academy in
Nashville.

After physical education and summer camps in basketball, he started on the MBA varsity team from his sophomore to his
senior years under coach Mark Elliott, an ex-player from Vanderbilt and now an assistant coach there. Currently the starting guard
for the Davidson team, Schmitt provided the sorely needed leadership for the young basketball squad.

What about collegiate basketball? Schmitt could not see himself coming to Davidson without playing basketball. He was a gung-ho freshman
who devoted about 60% of his time to basketball, 30% to academics, and 10% to socializing. But now that he
was a wiser junior, the time was split more or less evenly, with academics having a slight edge, of course.

Still, basketball was in him; it built character. It helped him manage his time efficiently. When the team took a
couple of weeks off, Jay did not know what to do with the extra time. Besides, it kept him in
the best possible health. And about being perceived as a superstar? Schmitt saw no such image in himself.

Anything else besides basketball? Sure. Jay loved to go fishing with his dad, which they have been doing since Jay
was 5 or 6 years old. A white water kayaker from the seventh grade on, Schmitt had gone down Class
4-5 rivers. (For the landlubbers, the rating of white water rivers ranged from Class 1 to Class 6, and sometimes
up to Class 8.) He had paddled with classmates Clay Wright and John Davis. Schmitt’s favorite course was Dr. Roberts’
Mathematical Modeling class, because it was fun. They undertook real-life projects such as working with the Financial Aid office and
testing the Union Cafe Cat Card when it first came out. It didn’t hurt to get an A in the
class either.

People whom he admired? There were so many that he could not single out any one. But he could name
a favorite cartoon character: Opus from Bloom County. Opus’ mannerisms struck Jay as hilarious and sometimes astute. On his shelf
sat a collection of Bloom County books. On the topic of favorites, how about a girlfriend? No, Jay preferred not
to print that, but he did clarify to her that he was not ashamed or anything. She smiled knowingly. Well,
time was marching on and it was almost time for Jay to go and referee, so he excused himself to
get ready for the game.
