Thursday, March 9, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN 11

S. H. O. C. — not ultra-radical condom NAZIS
Justin Broughton

In light of two editorials in last week’s Davidsonian, I feel that there needs to be a clarification as to
the nature of the AIDS Action Committee (since renamed to Student Health Options and Concerns or SHOC), its purpose, and
the intent of the several announced meetings of SHOC to voice their feelings. If they had actually shown concern for
their fellow students, venturing to come to SHOC meetings, they would have seen that their concerns and suggestions would have
been welcome: SHOC is composed of caring faculty members and students distressed about the possible (and according to experts, inevitable)
disastrous consequences of the spread of AIDS and other STDs. Criticism of what SHOC is trying to accomplish should be
done only with a clear understanding of for whom and what the organization consists, and not based upon isolated statements,
conjecture, and an incomplete grasp of the facts.

First and foremost, SHOC is not a group of ultra-radical condom Nazis “high-handedly” attempting to rush through any wild measure
under the pretense of “emergency” measures against the AIDS epidemic. Nor is it an immoral group of self-appointed reactionaries who
have taken it upon themselves to “feed” condoms to Davidson students in an attempt to save students from themselves. If
the two individuals had actually taken the time to show interest in the problem of AIDS and other STDs (Sexually
Transmitted Diseases) on college campuses, and what could be done to prevent their spread on this campus, rather than waiting
and expressing their indignation when suggested measures dared offend their delicate moral sensibilities, then they would have attended any one
of the survey meetings which it has distributed. SHOC is composed of persons such as Dr. Kimmel, Harriette Fulton, Service
Coordinator Caroline Craig, Health Educator Georgia Ringle, and students who are interested in giving input and volunteering time towards finding
and carrying through with solutions. How to best deal with what is not a “tactically contrived crisis,” but a frighteningly
real threat to Davidson and its students, is one of the main goals of SHOC. Simply put, SHOC is a
group teaching and helping, not judging and condemning.

Teaching and helping, not judging and condemning, are also Christian ideals
Kathryn Barnett

The March 2 issue of the Davidsonian included two editorials fiercely attacking the plan of making condoms available on campus.
These rely upon emotion and moral outrage, with naive idealism, rather than clear argumentation and a command of reality. Boyd
Miller postulates five primary objections to the availability on campus. Paul Renner’s editorial expands on two of these. I will
address these concerns in the order they were established.

Miller’s first concern is the unreliability of condoms. He cites studies showing that condoms are only 90 percent effective as
birth control and then moves to show how that rate would probably be even smaller in AIDS prevention. He fears
that the machines will place an invalid security on the use of condoms. First, Miller is wrong in stating that
abstinence offers 100 percent protection against AIDS. AIDS is also transmitted by blood and through birth. Let us assume that
he refers only to sexually transmitted AIDS. In which case, Miller is correct. However, his figures on the reliability of
condoms correctly used are wrong. The latest issue of Consumer Reports cites a study which finds reliability much greater than
even 90 percent. His higher figures may come from couples who do not correctly use condoms, which is why S.H.O.C.
thinks it especially important to focus on condom education. Also, for those that choose sex, condoms are the best protection,
and far better than no protection.

Miller continues by asserting that available condoms will increase promiscuity on campus. He quotes a local writer who says that
despite 17 years of sex education and easy access to contraceptives, and the expenditure of $2 billion, pregnancy and abortion
rates continue to climb. These facts, however, fail to establish any causal connection from education and availability of condoms to
sexual activities. These years of education and condom distribution have also been accompanied by increased proliferation of nuclear weapons. Miller
likely would not want to argue that this education and distribution has increased weapons manufacture. Miller might answer that the
design of education programs is to stop irresponsible sexual behavior and the statistics (which he never offers)Prove that this goal
has not been achieved. Thus, the nuclear weapon example is not a valid comparison. But, the goal of these programs
is to lessen irresponsible sexual activities; they do not hope to end them all. It is very difficult to chart
the success of a sexuality education program. Those who are convinced to end irresponsible behavior are hard to identify. These
programs address those who are already or may become sexually active. It is hard to imagine the student who does
not engage in sexual activities now, but who would start simply because condoms became available in bathrooms.

Miller next argues that the placement of condoms on campus will rid women of a good excuse not to have
sex. Note first that Miller argues later that Davidson men should procure condoms elsewhere, exercising their responsibility. If this is
his plan, then the “no condom” excuse will also be invalid. I think both sides of this issue can agree
that female students must take responsibility and confidence in their decisions. A woman who says that she will not engage
in sex because her partner does not have a condom leaves open the possibility that this potential partner need only
find a condom, now or in the future, and come back for sex. The peer education programs that S.H.O.C. (Student
Health Options & Concerns) will begin in addition to condom distribution will help students deal with their sexuality. Hopefully, females
will never need to resort to such ploys to avoid sex, but can discuss the issue and make responsible, mature
decisions.

Miller moves on to a claim which Renner seconds. The availability of condoms on campus will undermine student responsibility. However,
these machines do not, as Miller suggests, “tell students that we are not mature enough to handle the obligations of
our own personal decisions,” but will encourage students to take such responsibility. Condoms on campus say that the college notes
student sex behavior and is concerned for student health. Condoms are not forced or “fed” to the students. Rather, they
are made available so that students may decide, when engaging in sexual activities, to act responsibly.

Miller asks why condoms are not put in the offices of single professors. First, professors do not live in their
offices and are not likely to bring potential sexual partners there. Second, professors, as a group, have not been shown
to be as sexually active as students. Studies report now that anywhere from 70 to 80 percent of students on
campus are sexually active. A study at Oregon State revealed that 81 percent of surveyed students had engaged in sexual
intercourse in the past year. Of those, 60 percent had done so without the use of a condom; these stats,
even though virtually all of those polled demonstrated sufficient knowledge of AIDS. What these students did not demonstrate was any
sense of being at risk. Yet, college students are at high risk of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. Facilitating
those who have sex and would use a condom if they were available can save lives. Making condoms available does
not undermine responsibility but encourages it. While, as Renner states it, “calling ourselves adults,” relies on many things beyond the
sexual realm, part of it must be choosing to act responsibly with our sexuality. If not choosing abstinence, choosing to
secure a condom shows responsibility. Further, I think we all admit to making mistakes.

See POINT—COUNTERPOINT, page 12

Open to everyone with the explicit purpose of feeling out student consensus and opinion upon which effective measures can be
based. Which brings us to the petition. The petition is designed for just such a purpose. It is intended neither
as a ballot nor as a means of denying all students opposed to such a measure the right to speak.
It is merely a tool to see if a majority of Davidson students are amenable to such an action and
carries with it no implications of immediate implementation. Obviously, the portion of the student body which refrains from signing will
be considered either opposed to such action, believing that condom availability, or condom machines per se, is not the best
course of action to take, or simply undecided for any number of reasons. SHOC is not out to undermine the
moral foundations of this college but is an organization interested only in considering all angles of the STD problem with
maximum student support. However, even while acknowledging that Davidson is founded upon Christian principles, in this day and age, mere
calls for “moral courage,” and inveterate Bible-pounding pontification, I am afraid, will not stop the spread of AIDS and other
STDs at Davidson; enlightened criticism and constructive action will.

Justin Broughton is a senior classical studies major from Raleigh, NC.
