Friday, April 14, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sophomore Annissa Patton heads for the finish line.

Track and Field

Photo by Alex Hayden

Individuals shine in Davidson-Ridgeview relays

Kirch sets school record with 52.30 meter javelin toss

By MARK D. PUCKETT

Davidson finished eighteenth out of twenty-four teams in the Davidson-Ridgeview Relays recently. The team, few in number and hindered by injury, saw strong performances from many.

Eric Kirch jettisoned the javelin 52.30 meters in his first collegiate meet, placing third and setting a new school record. Annissa Patton became the second fastest woman in Davidson history when she ran :13.02 in the semis of the 100 meter. She placed third in the final race.

Other shiners were Jay Clugston and Chris Otrok. Clugston ran a personal best in the 4 x 1600 meter relay with a 4:29 mile. Otrok finished fifth in the 5,000 meter. “[Otrok] slowly rounded himself back into shape after mono and a stress fracture earlier in the year,” said Coach Gary Andrew. Although Maureen Harris didn’t place, she achieved a seasonal best in the discus (27.12 m). Kathy Beach motored to a sixth place finish in the 3,000 meter with 11:03.94.

Andrew said, “Kathy has a good chance of getting a school record in the 1,500 meter this year. She set an indoor record in the 3,000 meter at the Virginia Tech meet.”

Andrew also spoke about the steady deliverance of Annissa Patton and Jay Clugston. “Annissa has fought pain in her back from the beginning, but she managed to set a school record in the 60 meter dash at Virginia Tech with a time of :07.75. Jay has set personal best records in several events.” Clugston’s consistent running prowess has made him the fourth fastest performer at Davidson ever.

“It’s been a learning experience,” says team captain Bob Cornish. “With a small squad it’s difficult to really have team goals, but we’ve managed to concentrate on personal ones.”

The women’s team has a tentatively scheduled meet in the coming weeks. All the while, the team plugs on dauntlessly—running and throwing and jumping.

A tale from the club lacrosse team

By BEN TREGOE

To play the University of Tennessee was the reason for going, which was precisely the reason for not going for many of the members of the Davidson club lacrosse team. However, the 17 of us, 14 players and three beauteous managers, rolled into Knoxville late last Friday, and discovered that Knoxville is truly the party center of the South. Not only was there a bopping sock hop sponsored by the American Association of Retired Persons, but the Radisson’s bar—JD’s—our favorite Knoxville watering hole, was rocking the night away under the party wizardry of Ken the bartender.

The short drive to Knoxville was a blurry spring with frequent stops. The happy-to-go-lucky managers, Marlo Cobb, Liz Clarke and the bladderless Courtney Nichols, set the festive, malted spirit quickly. Later that evening a couple of the managers convinced a couple of players to turn in early, but the rest of us were mesmerized by the fast pace and septuagenarian antics of JD’s patrons. Seth Force, Dave Smyth and Robbie Huber capped the night off by trying to intimidate some of the locals.

See LAX, page 12

BASEBALL, from page 8

Davidson then sandwiched a 7-6 victory over Pfeiffer among three rain outs last Thursday (April 6). The Wildcats held a 6-5 lead going into the ninth. Pfeiffer managed to eke out a run off ace reliever Wanzenberg on one hit, a walk, and two hit batters to tie the score.

Holland led off the bottom of the ninth with a double in the left field corner, starting a game-winning rally as he had done in the Duke game. Livesey came up with one out and was the hero as he lined a shot off the left field fence, just missing a home run. But it was good enough for a double to drive in Holland and win the game.

At Clemson, Davidson jumped out to a 3-0 lead in the first, but Clemson tied it in the third and went ahead to stay with a five-run fourth. Clemson ripped Wildcat pitching for eighteen hits, including nine for extra bases, while the Cats managed only six hits, Azzolino (2 doubles) and Livesey accounting for four of them with two apiece.

Today the Cats travel to Winston-Salem to take on Wake Forest in a 3 p.m. game. Davidson then has a big weekend of baseball action at Wildcat Park. It begins on Friday with a 2 p.m. game against Wingate and continues with a doubleheader on Saturday with Winthrop which starts at noon. The busy weekend concludes with a long trip to Coastal Carolina on Sunday.

Make plans to bring your friends and family out to enjoy some fine baseball and have an overall good time. We appreciate your support. See you there on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday!

NOTES: Azzolino has a seven-game hitting streak, while Holland’s streak stands at six... Livesey, Azzolino, and Aoki lead the team in hitting after 22 games. All three are right around .300... Krnacik is 8-9 in stolen bases... The Wildcats have outhomered their opponents, 9-7. Azzolino and Mark Weir are tied for the team lead at three... Holland leads the team with nine doubles... The Cats have outscored their opponents in the first two innings, 43-26... Five former Wildcats are now playing in professional ball. Dave Turgeon and Billy Masse are in the Yankees’ system, Alan Lewis is at Vero Beach for the Dodgers, Dave Fitzgerald is in the Brewer organization, and Dan Simonds is at Frederick (Md.) for the Orioles after spending spring training on the major league forty-man roster.