Monday, February 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Will (On the Left) Montgomery and Mike (Bandana-Head) Malloy search for the puck in IMAC street hockey action as the 1st Belk Gladiator Pucks took on the 3rd East Ragin’ Horses. It was such an exciting game that we forgot to get the score.

In Good Health...

Photo by Robert Marshall

Take a prophylactic siesta

By MARK PUCKETT
Classes end. After eating lunch and frittering away thirty minutes on trifling errands, you scurry to your room and dump your books on your desk. You set the alarm to wake you in an hour, and upon seeing your bed you dive into it and hug your pillow. In the arms of Morpheus you doze heartily.

Yes, you have squandered an hour in stagnation, but when you awaken in your pool of drool, you are a polished entity. You have a substantial self-existence with evergreen vigor. And you are at one with the Cosmos.

The Beneficence of Napping: In this Sunday’s Parade magazine the article “What a Difference a Nap Makes” by Morton Hunt tells us that a forty-minute doze after lunch can 1) quicken reaction times, 2) improve afternoon test-taking skills and 3) promote better mental and physical health.

In the same article, psychiatrist Martin Orne says that this “prophylactic [preventive] napping” restores alertness. And sleep researcher David Dinges adds the following: “55 percent of college students nap regularly... because their schedules permit it and because they don’t sleep enough at night.”

Furthermore, Orne says it is best to nap “not when you feel the need most strongly—a nap before you're very tired will prevent fatigue.” On a final note, if you nap more than an hour, chances are you will have trouble falling asleep later that night. Researchers also add that “sleep inertia” may cause a feeling of grogginess upon waking and that it is best to wait fifteen minutes before taking control of a complex situation.

If you feel lethargic, take a power-snooze. And remain in good health because of it.
Next issue: Phobias!

HERE’S JOE’S QUOTE, from page 8

In high school, I had an old wrestling coach who didn’t know much about wrestling. He was a football coach. This is what he would yell whenever I’m on the mat: “Don’t do nothing dumb; do something smart.” It was obvious, but it made sense.

NOTE: Player profiles are for getting an insight into and hearing the voices of Davidson's athletes. Profiles are not intended to interview only the “best” athletes.

IMACtion

Basketball wraps up season; teams prepare for tournament

By LARRY SLEDGE

Wednesday marked the end of the 1988-89 IMAC basketball season, and emotions ran high as teams tuned up for this year’s tournament. Highlighting this week’s action was a match-up between the Swishing Gerbil Pack and Simple Columnar Hoops.

The first half was a see-saw battle. Ben Hooker of the Hoops scored 10 points in the half, keeping his team within striking distance, with the score 19-14 at the intermission.

The song remained the same for much of the second half, until Hoops found themselves forced to foul. Gerbil’s Chris Scott hit five free throws late in the game, as his team pulled away to a 47-35 victory, finishing the season at 5-1.

In other B-league action, Shoney’s Breakfast Bar got 10 points from Ken Jones, Clint Massengill and David “I can’t go to Florida” Ray as they topped the Erectors 37-33. Kevin Burns contributed 17 points as Carolina’s Dream beat Cellar Dwellers #2 43-36.

A full round of games took place for A-league this week, with most teams getting in two games. Second Little’s N.U.B.Z. improved their record to 7-0 this week, beating the Inebriates 49-32 and the Old Men 55-45. Tim Kerns was the high scorer in both games, getting 21 and 19 respectively. Greg Jones’ 17 points paced the Wolfpack to a 54-47 victory over the Really Nice Guys. The Teabaggers hoped to make it two in a row for the Nice Guys when the two teams squared off Sunday night. But unable to overcome the Nice Guys’ full court pressure, they ended up getting spanked 69-47. Robby Moore led all scorers with 29, Bob Dixon scored 23 points to help Delta Force land the Teabaggers their second straight loss, obliterating them 78-43. Delta Force took on the Wolfpack, 1989 pre-season champs, in a battle for #1 late Wednesday. The Greek Wanna-be’s topped Goo 51-43 behind 16 points from John Reel.

In the final game this week, Gat Caperton and Dave Lilly each scored 15 as Phi Delt’s Connie got its first win, edging Kappa Sig’s Hoss 49-45.

In women’s action this week, Marion Stone poured in 12 points as the Roaches whipped Brant’s Beauties 27-15. In the only other game, the Insatiables destroyed the Old Women 45-23, securing the tournament’s #1 seed and making themselves a strong favorite to repeat as the women’s champion.

Order your college ring NOW.

JOSTENS

AMERICA’S COLLEGE RING™

Date: FEB. 6-7 Place: BOOKSTORE

Time: 10 A.M.-3 P.M. Deposit Required:

Meet with your Jostens representative for full details. See our complete ring selection on display in your college bookstore.