Gatto’s Charlotte Barons rule minor league

By BRUCE BALESTIER

As owner of the Charlotte Barons’ football team, Davidson football coach Vic Gatto has a lot to say about the team that has taken the Minor League Football System (MLFS) by storm, beating up on the other ten teams in the league en route to an undefeated record in their first year of existence. The Barons have trailed just twice the entire season, and even then only by seven points—deficits which were quickly erased.

The Barons have, with their dominance of the league, become the toast of Charlotte, drawing very respectable crowds of between five and six thousand fans and attracting sponsors. There is even talk now that ESPN will televise the MLFS championship game, in which the Barons seem a sure participant.

Yet, while the success of the team and the way the city of Charlotte has embraced that success are surely positive factors, it is Gatto’s opinion that they will be of little importance to the NFL Expansion Committee in making their decision. “It certainly shows that the market is a good one, but the NFL team is based on NFL politics more than it is anything about Charlotte,” said Gatto. “The way the NFL has always expanded has been based on political and not demographic information. The NFL will sell out [tickets], it’s really not a problem; the problem is who has the political firepower to get the team.”

As far as the MLFS or a league like it serving as a farm system for the NFL, that seems unlikely. The NFL now has what Gatto terms a “free ride” in terms of a minor league, in that big-time college football acts as a pipeline of talent to the pros.

There is, nonetheless, NFL interest out there, and that has to do with NCAA Proposition 48, which bans from competition freshmen who fail to meet certain academic standards. “It doesn’t do anybody any good, except the football fans, for the kid to play four years at a college, not get a degree, go to an NFL camp, and get cut,” Gatto said. “It’s really disastrous for a lot of kids," he added. "If colleges ever get serious about just taking in students, which is unlikely, [in teams like the Barons] you would have a whole set of guys who are athletically able. This league, or any league, could offer a good opportunity for them to keep playing and get trained at a job.”

Gatto’s acquisition of the Barons proved to be a blessing when Davidson made the decision to drop its football team from Division I AA to Division III status. Larry Stewart, the offensive coordinator for the Wildcats a year ago, was out of a job after that drop in status. He is now general manager of the Barons and, in the words of Gatto, “controls it all.” While no other team in their league has hired even one full-time coach, the Barons have hired two, both former Davidson coaches who had found themselves jobless after Davidson’s move to Division III.

According to Gatto, “The Barons just happened at a point when we had a staff problem. I was firing people who had families because of what Davidson had done and it was just a nice chance for me to save a situation that I didn’t want to have happen.” In addition, Stanley Monk, formerly a star running back at Duke and presently the running back coach at Davidson, and Dave Davis, a graduate of Baylor...and the Wildcats’ receiver coach, play for the Barons.

The MLFS has experienced financial success across the board. But while the survival of the league seems certain, the question of whether the Barons will be in it after this season is very much up in the air. No other team has done the work that Charlotte has done. There are no other full-time coaches in the league, and no other franchise approaches the Barons in the seriousness of their endeavor. Stewart has signed many players cut in last year’s NFL couple of weeks, signed a number of recent NFL cuts. The Barons have flourished with near-NFL caliber players and have played at a level to which none of the other franchises have even come close.

“We're unhappy with the fact that nobody is competing with us,” said Stewart. “You obviously want to be undefeated, but the way it’s been hasn’t been the way we had hoped. We’re really questioning whether we're going to do it again.”

Gatto has been approached by a number of teams about joining a more competitive league. One such team in Scranton, Pennsylvania has camps and has, in the last, won 40 straight games. So it may be a change of scenery for the red-hot Charlotte Barons next season, and hopefully a step up in competition from the MLFS.

“It was supposed to be a league for NFL pretenders, and unfortunately the pretense is monumental for the people we're playing,” said Gatto. “The guys we have have a vague shot at something, but at least they’re playing at that level," he added. "When you see Stanley Monk run the football, it looks like a Sunday afternoon; he’s that good. But you don’t feel that way when you see the other team’s running back. It’s not the same thing.”

---

LONDON PARIS WASHINGTON
Media + International Programs
725 Commonwealth Avenue B2
Boston, MA 02215
617/353-9888

A representative from Boston University will be on campus:

INFORMATION MEETING
OCTOBER 26, 3:30 - 4:30 P.M.
CHAMBERS 212

Public Relations + Tourism + Politics + Business/Economics + International Relations + Communications

Each 14-week internship program includes: 16 Boston University semester-hour credits, full-time internships, course work taught by local faculty, centrally located housing, and individualized placements for virtually every academic interest. Programs in London and Paris are offered during the spring, fall, and summer. The Washington program is offered during the fall and spring.

BOSTON UNIVERSITY
An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution

---

By JOHN BURNS

At the risk of sounding body. Davidson is cocktail.

The Arts » Finance/Economic Research/Management * Human/Health Services Politics » Advertising/PR/Marketing Journalism/Broadcast/Film Business Fashion + The Arts » Government Pre-Law Journalism/Health Fields + The Arts

Name
London Internship Programme
The Arts
Address
City
State
Zip
Management
Human/Health Services
Politics
College/University
Summer
Fall
Spring
19
Advertising/PR/Marketing
Journalism/Broadcast/Film
Paris Internship Program
Washington Internship Program

Saint Louis University's Academic Year in Madrid
COMPLETE CURRICULUM: English, Spanish, Liberal Arts, Business & Administration, TESOL, Sciences, SLU In Madrid Is a member of AA/EOE Graduate Courses offered during Apply NOW for Spring, Summer and Fall More than 1,000 students In the Program. Hispanic Studies

(On the Sports front)

Ron Green, I would like near at halftime-Dean

Summer Session Contact:
Saint Louis University
Study Abroad Coordinator
Admissions Office
221 North Grand Blvd.
St. Louis, MO 63103
Toll-free tel: 1-800-325-6666

Philadelphia Institute