4

By SUZANNE

Program Coordinator Ruth Pittard’s wallet was stolen for the second time this month. A thief took $38 and some credit
cards from her wallet in her top desk drawer. The theft occurred last Wednesday sometime between 10:30 a.m. and 5:20
p.m. Pittard said, “I have no idea who took it. They had to go looking and that feels personal.” The
police also have not found any leads, although Officer Tim Ramsey suspects that it was an inside job. He suggested
that Union personnel take personal responsibility for the safety of their belongings. Pittard cannot lock her door because her office
is in a hallway. “This is a student building,” said Pittard, “if we lock it, students can’t use it.” The
Union plans to install lockers for employees, staff, and students. Until the lockers are completed, Pittard will leave her wallet
at home and carry money with her. She said, “We're in a different time and can’t assume honesty anymore.”

LONDON PARIS Media + Tourism + WASHINGTON Politics

For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to Boston University International Programs, 725 Commonwealth Avenue B2, Boston,
MA 02215. 617/353-9888

BOSTON UNIVERSITY An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution

Paris Internship Program
Washington Internship Program

Name
Address
City
State
Zip
College/University
Summer
Fall
Spring 19

Beyond Davidson
The Arts
Finance/Economic Research/Management
Human/Health Services
Politics
Journalism/Broadcast/Film
Public Relations
Business
Fashion
Business/Economics
Pre-Law
International Relations
Journalism/Communications
Health Fields
The Arts

Each 14-week internship program includes: 16 Boston University semester-hour credits, full-time internships, course work taught by local faculty, centrally located
housing, and individualized placements for virtually every academic interest. Programs in London and Paris are offered during the spring, fall,
and summer. The Washington program is offered during the fall and spring.

London Internship Programme
Advertising/PR/Marketing
The Arts
Government
The Arts
Finance/Economic Research/Management
Human/Health Services
Politics
Advertising/PR/Marketing
Journalism/Broadcast/Film

Setting the record straight
Wednesday, October 25, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Now no excuses for not knowing PCC alcohol policy

The Patterson Court Council has established this policy in the interest of promoting the responsible service and consumption of alcoholic
beverages on Patterson Court. This policy must be approved annually by three-fourths (3/4) of the houses currently active on Patterson
Court. Approval by each house requires an affirmative vote by two-thirds (2/3) of all the members of the house. All
houses on Patterson Court will adhere to this policy.

Regulations:
1. This policy will apply to any party, social function, or event sponsored by a Patterson Court house on or
off campus. A house-sponsored event is one for which a house assumes any sort of financial responsibility.
2. Alcoholic beverages will be served only in a designated service area which shall be entered only by persons 21
years of age or older. The designated service area must be a room separate from the social function. The only
exception can be found in section I.3. Presidents and social chairmen who are under 21 years of age may enter
the designated service area provided that they are fulfilling official duties, do not consume alcoholic beverages, and do not remove
any alcoholic beverages from the service area.
3. If the house organizes a BYOB party (this includes all forms of alcohol) then a service monitor must be
present. The monitor’s duty is to oversee that the alcohol under their supervision does not become available for general consumption.
Individuals removing alcoholic beverages from the monitored area will do so with the understanding that they are responsible if the
beverage is given to an under-age individual for consumption. (North Carolina law states that giving an alcoholic beverage to an
under-age individual is a general misdemeanor punishable with a fine and/or up to two years in prison).
4. To enter the designated service area, the individual must present to the designated entrance monitor a Davidson College I.D.
card in addition to one of the following forms of identification: state driver's license, state photo I.D. card, passport, or
U.S. military I.D. If the individual is not a Davidson student, valid identification in the form of a state driver’s
license or a passport must be shown. This policy applies to and includes invited guests and entertainers. The entrance monitor
will stamp the individual’s hand with a distinctive rubber stamp. The entrance monitor must not consume alcoholic beverages while on
duty and must not be obviously intoxicated.
5. One or more service monitors will be required at any event where alcoholic beverages will be served by the
house. The service monitor(s) must be 21 years of age or older. The service monitor(s) must not consume alcoholic beverages
while on duty and must not be obviously intoxicated.
6. In the designated service area, the service monitor(s) willoversee the service of alcoholic beverages. There will be no service
to individuals who are obviously intoxicated.

7. No alcoholic beverages will be removed from the service area in containers which are larger than 22 ounces. No
carrying containers will be used to remove alcoholic beverages from the designated drinking area.

8. Food and alternative beverages will be available and visibly displayed as long as alcoholic beverages are available at any
event.

9. Any alcohol made available for general consumption (such as but not limited to donated kegs) must fall under the
Patterson Court Alcohol Policy.

10. Individuals removing the alcoholic beverages from the designated service area will do so with the understanding that they are
responsible if the beverage is given to an under-age individual for consumption. (North Carolina law states that giving an alcoholic
beverage to an under-age individual is a general misdemeanor punishable with a fine and/or up to two years in jail).

11. Once alcohol is made available, no alcohol or persons may pass through the windows of the designated drinking area.
The doorway is the only acceptable means of entering the designated drinking area.

12. No Patterson Court house may schedule, advertise or plan drinking games or contests as social functions.

13. Each house will provide safe transportation to any house-sponsored event that takes place away from Davidson College campus where
alcohol will be served or consumed. Officers should strongly encourage house members and guests to use transportation provided by the
house.

14. During the first semester of every year, each Patterson Court house will schedule at least one mandatory house meeting
for the purpose of educating its members about responsible drinking. This meeting shall take place ordinarily no later than the
end of the fifth week of classes of fall semester. Topics addressed might include one or more of the following:
the Patterson Court Alcohol Policy, responsible service and consumption, health concerns and alcohol abuse, North Carolina State laws, legal responsibilities
and drinking and driving.

South Africa’s de Klerk takes small reform steps
By CAROL GATEWOOD

SOVIET UNION: On Monday Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze addressed the Soviet legislature and criticized monumental foreign policy decisions that
were made by the Kremlin in the past decade. In his speech, the foreign minister openly stated that the Soviet
Union “violated the norms of proper behavior... [with]... the dispatch of troops to Afghanistan. We committed the most serious violations
of our own legislation, our party and civilian norms.” Shevardnadze also admitted that a radar station at Krasnoyarsk had violated
the ABM treaty with the United States. The Soviets will remove this station that the U.S. cited as a violation
of the treaty several years ago. The New York Times described this speech as a “highly unusual act of contrition,”
and it signaled just one more attack by Gorbachev upon the military excesses and stagnant rule of Leonid Brezhnev. Along
with this attempt to break with the past, Shevardnadze also said that Eastern Europe’s political problems are “historic, qualitative changes”
that the Soviet Union should “respect.”

BUDAPEST: On Monday Hungary proclaimed itself a republic 32 years after its uprising against the Soviet Union that led to
a “Socialist People’s” government. The formation of the new republic came only four months after the 1956 incident was accepted
as a “popular uprising” instead of a counterrevolution when Imre Nagy’s remains were reinterred with honor. Nagy led the uprising.
Acting President Szeros in a celebratory speech stated that the new government will be “an independent, democratic and legal state
in which the values of bourgeois democracy and democratic socialism are expressed equally.”

SOUTH AFRICA: F.W. de Klerk, South Africa’s new president, continues to take small steps toward changes in the apartheid government.
A week and a half ago de Klerk released Walter Sisulu, a member of the illegal African National Congress imprisoned
for 26 years. Sisulu’s freedom is unconditional. de Klerk has recently also allowed open demonstrations against the South African government
as an attempt towards substantial reforms, but the president can expect to run into some barriers soon to his political
goals. De Klerk’s actions have gone against laws made by the Congress of the South African government that cater to
an apartheid system. Police forces are acting against their mandate and the court system cannot handle cases properly. The president
also indicated that the state of emergency in South Africa which has been in effect since 1986 might be lifted.

LEBANON: General Michel Aoun, the leader of the Lebanese Christian Militia, rejected a peace accord adopted by 62 Lebanese leaders
in Saudi Arabia. The new plan would restructure the government of Lebanon so that the cabinet and parliament would equally
represent Christians and Muslims. This attempt to end a 14-year-old civil war was also rejected by two main Shiite militias
that are backed by Syria.
