Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Students to learn to look successful!

By CAP’N JAMES T. KIRK

Among the many changes brought about by Donald Trump’s purchase of Davidson College is the new dress code. Davidson students
who used to enjoy a wide range of hippie attire including tie-dyes, flip-flops, stretch minis, ripped jeans, boxer shorts, vests,
and bandannas on their heads must now convert to the new-improved “Trump Fashion.”

“No more decadence,” said Trump, “if these students plan to make money, they need to look like money.”

Students of Trump University will wear conservative, no-nonsense clothing. Long-sleeved shirts with French cuffs, dark suits, and paisley ties will
be required for everyday dress. Trump also plans to replace the rat-tails and collar-length hairstyles with the clean-cut, “successful look.”

Not everyone is happy with the new dress code. One displeased student cried, “With Trump in charge, we’re all going
to look like John David Ramsey!”

In response to students’ protests, Trump explained that he wants students to look like a “big success” even before they
enter the business world. Said Trump, “I like thinking big. If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as
well think big.”

The before and after photos reveal the extreme makeover demanded by Trump. The dress code will apply to both sexes.
Says Trump, “Women should learn to look successful too.”

“With Trump in charge, we're all going to look like John David Ramsey,” wails one student!

PULITZER SHOCKER!

“Freddie” lamp wins top cartoon prize!

By MAS SIVUP SET

“The lamp,” an embattled figure in the enormously popular “Freddie” cartoon strip, was presented with the 1989 Pulitzer Prize for
“his valiant work in preserving the dignity of the strip.” New York Newsday artist Doug Marlette made the presentation at
the Trump Plaza Hotel in New York.

“That’s a pretty big award, isn’t it,” said Donald Trump. “I like thinking big. If you’re going to be thinking
anyway, you might as well think big.”

THE DAVID’S ONION

“<Prfffft!!” said Madeleine.

May 3, 1989
