2

Friday, September 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Countdown continues: to opening of Baker Sports Complex in mid-September

By PETER BYNUM

Despite several unanticipated problems over the summer, all seems to be on schedule for the opening of the new Baker Sports Complex this fall.

According to Grover Meetze, director of Facilities Planning, most of the building should be operational and ready for student use by mid-September. However, several weeks of minor transitional difficulties are to be expected as the athletics department is transported from Johnston Gym.

The facility will offer numerous playing areas. Six racquetball courts, one squash court, an Olympic-size swimming pool, and several intramural basketball courts are only a few of the features that will be available to the student body. Meetze is excited about the impact that the center will have on campus life, stating that few other colleges of comparable size can boast of “such a fine athletic addition.”

Meetze and his team were faced with some unexpected troubleshooting during the summer as they simultaneously juggled contractors, plumbers, electricians, and the like.

The columns around the entrance to the center were changed, requiring some adjustments to the original design. Workers have also had to be cautious around a recently planted River Birch tree that will grace the promenade. Veteran construction hands are getting a quick course in horticulture, for the tree is evidently at a delicate stage in its development and demands careful attention.

The opening walkway and entrance to the complex have been designed with a particular idea in mind - student participation.

According to Meetze, every effort has been made to tie the facility to the rest of the campus. The large stairway and sidewalk descending from Richardson Field are intended both to draw students and to encourage visitors to the arena to explore more of the campus.

Meetze added that the glass-enclosed spectator areas and a sundeck on the south side of the building are expected to make Baker an inviting and comfortable place for all students.

Terry Holland, who will become director of athletics in the fall of 1990, has insisted that the seats nearest to the floor in Richardson Arena be designated as the “student section.”

Although the complex will be ready for use in September, a November “gala” has been planned for its official opening and dedication. Meetze claims that the festivities “should rival the celebrations of the Israelites when they defeated the Philistines.”

Hopefully, his analogy will prove true for the sports that soon will call the Baker Sports Complex “home.” Perhaps this will be an arena in which the small but feisty Davidson Wildcats will once again slay the Goliaths of the NCAA.

$56 million down; $94 million to go

By MARGARET CARROLL

Fifty-six million dollars has been collected thus far in Davidson’s $150 million campaign drive, which was announced in March of this year. The campaign aims to raise the $150 million by the end of 1994.

According to George A. Brakeley, III, the president of Brakeley, John Price Jones Inc., a company which monitors campaigns across the country, “To our knowledge this is the largest campaign ever undertaken by a liberal arts college, and the likelihood of success reflects the high regard in which Davidson is held.”

Twelve advance gifts of a million dollars or more have been donated. Commitments have been made from the John I. Smith Charities of Greenville, South Carolina, the Baker family of Jacksonville, Florida and New York City, the Duke Endowment, Mr. and Mrs. Perry A. Sloan of Durham, North Carolina, several college trustees, the Belk Foundation, and members of the Richardson family of Greensboro.

Approximately $90 million of the campaign goal will endow professorships and academic programs; $60 million will be allocated for capital needs and operating expenses.

Beverly F. Dolan, chairman, president, and chief executive of Textron Inc. of Providence, Rhode Island, was selected as national chairman of the campaign. Charlotte businessman John M. Belk has been named honorary chairman of the campaign.

The official campaign kick-off will be November 10-11.

SGA Senate ELECTIONS

Positions Available:

Freshman Senators (6)
Independent Senators (3)
House Senators

Sign-ups
Monday, 9/4 at 9:00 a.m. until Monday 9/11 at 5:00 p.m.

Campaigning begins Monday 9/11 at 5:00 p.m.

Elections Tuesday, 9/19

Third West’s “The Pack O’ Dogs” performed “The Lion Biceps Tonight” at Sunday’s freshman talent show. Machelle Sweeting of 4th Rich won with her rendition of “I'm Not Going.”

Photo by Beth Pharr

New York Times - 7 days a week

Main Street Books Davidson

YOUR PERSONAL SERVICE BOOKSELLERS

Complete Personal Services
Special Orders Gift Wrapping
Booklover's Card Mailing
Telephone Orders MC/Visa
Discounts for Schools, Businesses
Rental Book Tapes -- Newest Titles

plus

A Large Selection of Books, Cards, Magazines, Posters & Gifts for all ages, interests & budgets

20601 Torrence Chapel Road
South Lake Shopping Center
896-7611

“OUR ROLLS MADE DAILY AT OUR OWN BAKERY”

* ASK US ABOUT HOAGIE PARTY PLATTERS *
STEAKS & HOAGIES

OPEN
Monday - Saturday 11am - 9pm
Sunday 11am-9pm

* WE BAKE OUR OWN BREAD DAILY ON THE PREMISES *
* WHOLE-WHEAT or WHITE BREAD *

AMERICAN SPECIAL
Cheese, Roast Beef, Turkey, Ham, Lettuce, Tomato, Onions, Olive Oil & Vinegar
On a Hoagie Roll From Our Own Bakery
With this coupon ONLY $2.49

ITALIAN SPECIAL
Salami, Cheese, Ham, Lettuce, Tomato, Onions, Olive Oil & Vinegar
On a Hoagie Roll From Our Own Bakery
With this coupon ONLY $2.49

NEW JERSEY SPECIAL
Ham, Salami, Cheese, Lettuce, Tomato, Onions, Olive Oil & Vinegar
On a Hoagie Roll From Our Own Bakery
With this coupon ONLY $2.49

PHILLY SPECIAL
Steak with Grilled Onions & Pizza Sauce
On a Hoagie Roll From Our Own Bakery
With this coupon ONLY $2.39