sports The Davidsonian Thursday, October 19, 1989

Men’s soccer stomps one, then ties one

By CARTER PAYNE

Davidson 7 - Canisius 0

The Wildcats started a bit sluggishly Saturday afternoon, but finished with a flurry of second-half goals as they went on to blow out the Canisius Golden Griffins 7-0 in the First Charter National Bank soccer invitational, held at Davidson this past weekend.

In the first half, neither team seemed able to get any offense going as both defenses played very aggressively. At the 18:22 mark of the first half, sophomore forward Rob Ukrop stole a Canisius pass at midfield and hit junior Peter Cobb as he sprinted toward the goal. Cobb shook off a defender and punched the ball past the diving goalkeeper for the score. The Wildcats had other opportunities to score in the first half but could not capitalize. At the half, the score remained 1-0.

Then in the second half, the Wildcats exploded. No more than five minutes into the period, Davidson midfielder Tracy Hankins dribbled the ball in tight and muscled it past both a Canisius defender and the goalkeeper to make the score 2-0. After Hankins’s goal, the rout was on. Senior Rob Vest scored next, followed by Ukrop and sophomore Spider Wormuth. The lead increased to 5-0.

The Davidson defenders, consisting of seniors Ross Saldarini, Scott Poisson, sophomore Lance Long, and goalkeeper Doug Long, did an excellent job. They thwarted every Canisius attempt and kept the ball on the Canisius end of the field the entire afternoon. With about 22 minutes left in the game, Ukrop moved the ball in close, slashed left to right, and fired the ball into the upper right corner for goal number six. Four minutes later, freshman Glenn Smith got a piece of the action as he blew past the Canisius defense to score the final goal.

Davidson 3 - Richmond 3

On Sunday, the Wildcats faced perhaps their toughest opponent of the season in Richmond. The Wildcats turned in a stellar performance for almost the entire game. Sophomore Rob Ukrop had another great day. He scored two goals, one in the first half and another in the second. With five minutes left in the game and the score 2-0 in Davidson’s favor, it looked as though the Wildcats would upset Richmond. However, with just under two minutes remaining, the Wildcat defense broke down completely and allowed two costly goals which knotted the game at 2-2 at the end of regulation.

Senior Rob Vest put the Wildcats on the board first in overtime by heading the ball past the Richmond goalkeeper. A minute later, Richmond scored the final goal in what ended as an impressive but disappointing stalemate for the Wildcats.

In good health, you reach your target heart rate—the whole idea behind aerobic exercise. This rate can be calculated by:
a) subtracting your age from 220,
b) 65% to 85% of this number is your TARGET HEART RATE,
c) if you are 20 years old: 220 - 20 = 200.20 = 200. 65% of 200 is 130. The idea is to achieve your target heart rate but not exceed it.

2) Begin gradually and do not limit yourself to one activity. Run and lift weights. Walk and play basketball. Swim and play racquetball. It is easy to become bored. Variety will exercise tips and can help control cholesterol rate. Fruits are the best sources. Recommended: Cheerios, Grape-Nuts, Nutri-Grain Cereal, kiwi, pineapple, etc. Recommend peas, cabbage, peppers, beans, celery, and many more.

Field hockey team won’t let youth block success
Russ and Cooke come through for the offense
By TRACEY LYNN PEREZ

The Lady Wildcats have brought home victory after victory since the start of the season. The young team, led by Mary Russ, Monique Dockter, and Marjorie Havighurst, closed out Bridgewater and soundly beat Pfeiffer in September. The Pfeiffer game was executed beautifully. After Pfeiffer scored early in the first half, the Wildcats recovered and turned the game into a goal-fest. In the first half, Gigi Cooke and Russ made the score 2-1. Then, in the second half, Russ scored again, then assisted Cooke in knocking in the fourth goal. Cooke scored again with two minutes left in the game. The Wildcats won 5-1.

Later in the month, the Wildcats traveled to Winston-Salem to face the Wake Forest Demon Deacons. Davidson lost 2-1. The only goal was scored by Russ, assisted by (guess who) Cooke. The team didn’t play to its full potential because it was trying to adjust to the loss of 1988 Defensive MVP Francesca Fierro. Fierro, who was also a participant in the 1988 Nationals in California, suffered a torn ligament in her knee. It is likely that she will be able to bring back her dependable defense next season.

After a series of rainouts, Davidson pulled off a 1-0 overtime win over Catawba. Havighurst assisted Cooke in scoring the winning goal. Overall, the game featured exciting midfield play and few shots on goal. The win was Davidson’s first over Catawba in over six years.

The Cats then traveled to Eastern Mennonite College to compete in the Shenandoah Valley Classic. The team lost on astroturf to Eastern Mennonite 3-0. As in the game against Duke earlier in the season, the Wildcats had trouble adjusting to the faster playing surface. In the next game against Sweet Briar, Davidson was considerably better adjusted and whipped Sweet Briar 4-0. Goals were scored by Cooke (2), Dockter, and Lauren Follman. At the end of the weekend, the Wildcats road-tripped to Harrisonburg, Va., and battled Roanoke College to a 2-2 tie after double overtime. After a weekend on astroturf, the switch to a poor playing field adversely affected the team’s performance. Problems getting the ball to roll freely left the Cats down 0-1 in the first half, but Cooke tied the game on a penalty stroke. Both teams scored in the second half, Davidson’s goal came with five minutes left. Coach Betsey Pryor stated that on a smoother field the game would have been yet another victory for the Wildcats.

In their latest game, the Lady Wildcats faced powerful Radford University in the team’s toughest test since Duke. Davidson played a superb passing game but finished on the tail end of a close 2-0 score. The rain on Wednesday postponed the Wildcats’ confrontation with Catawba until today.