Thursday, February 23, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
Muadi Mukenge, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

Letters

All Sports Dinner

Dear Editor,

It is late Sunday evening, February 19, following the “All Sports Dinner” at Vail Commons. I ought to be typing
a review that I am distributing tomorrow morning, but events at the first ever “All Sports Dinner” have moved me
to write my first ever letter to The Davidsonian.

Why did I go to the dinner? I went to honor our student-athletes. They are not another community within Davidson,
but a valuable and integral part of the entire Davidson community. I see them in class. In the short 7+
years I’ve taught at Davidson, I’ve had the pleasure of numbering among my students members of the football, soccer, women’s
club soccer, men and women’s basketball, volleyball, field hockey, wrestling, men and women’s track and cross country, men and women’s
tennis, and baseball teams. Some student-athletes, like some non-athletes, excel in the classroom. The great majority of student-athletes in my
classes, unlike many non-athletes, are academically disciplined.

I’m also a fan. I attend home events as frequently as I can. I cheer calls in favor of our
team, and boo calls against us. I yell encouragement when things aren’t going so well, and whoop it up when
they are. I try to come on time, and stay until the event is over. I go home happy when
we win, and disappointed when we lose. (My kindergarten-age son always goes home happy; late in the game his allegiance
switches to the team that’s ahead.) These are all aspects of the job description of a fan. I’m a fan
because Davidson athletic teams are part of “us”; as much a part of “us” as such other facets of our
community as choirs in performance, orators in press releases, or faculty at conferences, when they represent “us” to the outside
world. We are all members of a larger Davidson family, and a family supports its own.

These are some of the reasons I chose to express my appreciation for our student-athletes by attending the “All Sports
Dinner” this evening. It was a great idea, and as best I can make out, credit for this idea goes
to Carleton Pritchard and Bobby Hussey. Thank you to Carleton Pritchard and his staff for another fine meal. And thanks
to responsible parties, the Dean of Students office among them, for footing the bill.

What could have marred such a well-intentioned celebration? It was something which was said, and not in private conversation, but
in a “few remarks” addressed to the gathering by our own Dean Will Terry. This was a time for reunion;
for dispensing with the recrimination which accompanied the Trustee’s decision relative to Division I athletics; for solidifying common ground. Instead,
Dean Terry managed to pour salt on wounds that had just begun to heal. What did we hear from the
Dean? We heard a talk whose assumed audience must have been male, despite the occasional “he or she” / “his
or her.” We heard a reminisce that what this college needs is a few more “good ol’ country boys.” How
about some “good ol’ country girls?” Besides, once Davidson takes the “country” out of them, they’re just good ol’ boys.
We heard comments equating Division I athletics with some sort of macho measure of manliness. We heard that Division I
athletics is a bastion against northeastern elitism. Frankly, I never thought I'd hear Dean Terry sound so much like Jesse
Helms. By the way, did our women tennis players think they were striking a blow against “wimpism” and “preppiness” when
they moved from Division III to Division I?

This was an evening to celebrate all Davidson student-athletes, men and women, past, present, and future. It started as a
show of common fellowship, but it ended with the Dean of Students stoking the coals of disharmony. Thank you, Dean,
for the meal, but no thanks for the indigestion that followed.Sincerely,
Stephen L. Davis
Associate Professor of Mathematics

Weather

It only takes a quick look out the window to see that Spring 1989 has yet to arrive in Davidson
with any consistency. The Washington Post in a situation like this usually turns and blames the Weather Administration for poor
planning; this seems appropriate for the mess in which we find ourselves. We can put a man on the moon
yet we can’t keep the sun out long enough for anyone to get a decent tan! It’s very discouraging for
us liberals sometimes. There seems to be a fundamental lack of skill on the part of the state Weather Administrations
in the South. An editor’s brother is in school at St. John’s University in Minnesota; there they’ve got winter and
in no small way! On a day that Charlotte and the entire East Coast were experiencing temperatures in the 70’s
and 80’s, St. John’s kept its cool at 20 below zero. Now that, my friends, is an efficient weather bureaucracy!
If state weather planners in Raleigh could pick up some pointers on how to select a season and stay the
course, the quality of life for millions of Carolinians would be improved vastly. No more psychic dilemmas each morning: “Do
I wear shorts or a parka today?” Few studies have been done on the damaging effects of such a daily
dichotomy, but it should not be underestimated. Why, we’ve heard that in isolated cases such a severe decision-making structure dropped
on unsuspecting Southern heads has caused some to actually like grits. This is no laughing matter, my friends. If the
stories we’ve heard are true, incompetence on the state and federal level has induced at least one revolting character trait
in otherwise charming people. If the crack team of Duke researchers in Durham succeeds at establishing a link between the
weather fluctuations and an affinity for professional wrestling, then we know we’ve got a full-scale medical emergency on our hands.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. No, it’s not. Yes, it is.
No, it’s not. No, really, it is! Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036, or tie it
to a brick and toss it through the window of Belk 126; they’ll make sure it gets to us. Phone
(704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian, and
in fact rarely represent the author's views, strangely enough. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Copyright available on request. Advertising rates
are held by the Trustees of Davidson College, and you know what a secretive bunch they are.

General information section: While “Legal” Larry Sledge is no longer the head of IMAC, he’d be more than happy to
hear constructive criticism of the program. So, give him a call any time, day or night, at 896-6671.

Special Projects Editor: Maria Douglas
Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll
Assistant Features Editor: Bethany Deptuch
Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome

News Staff: David Bearce, John Burns, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Suzanne Craymer, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood,
Gates Grainger, Heath Hardage, Stan Humphries, Delia Johnson, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Vowels, Mary Nee, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David
Scott, Gary Wheeler, Molly Young.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Jean Carroll, Hilary Coman, Suzanne Craymer, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks,
Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon
O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Gnibb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce
Newsome, Holme Oltrogge, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, “Legal” Larry Sledge, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Ian Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis

Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Stephanie Smith

Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Stanton Harris
