*&*&& THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH ANNIVERSARY ISSUE *&*& %& April 1989

The ideal girl for a Davidson man

STUDENTS PICK IDEAL GIRL: March 18, 1926, saw the publication of this Davidson student opinion poll on the description of
the ideal girl of the 1920s. Clara Bow, the “IT” girl, symbolized the wild “flapper” ideal of the era. However,
the smoking, drinking, flirting party girl of the Jazz Age was apparently a bit looked down upon by the conservative,
upstanding Davidson men of the Twenties.

Age: 18
Height: 5’5”
Weight: 120

Description: brown, bobbed hair, brown eyes, natural complexion, slender, size 4

Desirable Traits: sweet, witty, knowledge of Music and Art, can cook, sew, keep house

Other: will “pet,” but doesn’t smoke or drink, a good dancer, not a “social butterfly”

Name: Margaret

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS (Dec. 3, 1925)

In The Davidsonian’s December 3, 1925 editorial, “Tobacco v. Womanhood,” the editor makes the comment that “...any fellow will say
that a girl sinks a little in his estimation whenever he sees her smoking. Somehow, he bounds when she does.”

“The Cracker Box,” The Davidsonian's joke column of October 17, 1929, demonstrated the open-mindedness and humility of Davidson men regarding
women: “A man finds his ideal woman in one who possesses virtue, beauty, amiability, loyalty, affection, domesticity, comradeship, and patience.

“A woman finds her ideal man in one who possesses mazuma, kale, cash, coin, currency, chink, and money.”

The November 26, 1925, issue of the paper illustrated the worldliness and sophistication(?) of Davidson men. A Dr. Swann lectured
to a huge crowd of students on a Friday night about “Social Hygiene.” A film showing “reproduction in fish, fowl,
and finally...

Who were the women of the twenties?

They voted, smoked, bobbed their hair, and wore short skirts.

The twenties are often viewed as the first time women began to be recognized. For example, they got the right
to vote in 1920 and rebelled against traditional stereotypes by cutting their hair and shortening their skirts. In the April
26, 1923, issue of The Davidsonian, the paper gave a review of a play that tried to predict the end
result of women’s suffrage. Mr. and Mrs. Polly Tick was a musical comedy in which the supposed roles of men
and women were reversed. “Man was the housekeeper and woman the provider, man becoming too feminine and woman too masculine.”
The review was ironic, describing the play as a “musical comedy farce.” The play continued about the “hen-pecked husbands” and
their determination to get the right to vote. In the end, the clash was dissolved according to popular opinion of
the day. The woman, when forced to choose between her man and her politics, chose her man: “The pair decided
to enter the bonds of matrimony on the old-fashioned basis.” Although only a simple review, it reveals something about the
feelings of men during that time. One can only wonder what those people would say now.

By Hilary C.

A dry season is always followed by a period of wet. Not all athletic events scheduled can be played, but
the anticipated income can be guaranteed by RAIN INSURANCE.

McAlister Carson, Manager (’13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

SEPTEMBER 22, 1922

SEPTEMBER 8, 1922

Congratulations on 75 Years of Service to Davidson College and the Davidson Community

UNITED CAROLINA BANK
