Special Hugo section! Pages 4-7

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 5

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, October 11, 1989

A glimpse at Davidson College 1999-2000?

Dober, Lidsky, Craig and Associates reveal their proposal

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

After studying the campus for two years, the firm Dober, Lidsky, Craig and Associates have compiled a ten-year plan for Davidson’s future growth. Charles Craig, one of the firm’s partners, presented the plan to the college community last Wednesday and Thursday. The proposal outlines a plan for meeting the needs of the campus by planning new buildings, renovating older ones, and reconstructing traffic patterns.

Craig estimated the cost of construction at a conservative $32 million. He said that this number did not cover furnishing or equipment costs. President John Kuykendall said that Davidson’s present $150 million campaign drive sets aside $42 million to cover select projects. Neither he nor Craig would comment on the cost of the Dober report itself.

The report calls for the construction of a “new campus” facing Main Street between Griffith and Depot streets. This area would provide a definite entrance to the college, as well as increase the overall size of the campus. The college would have specifically labeled north, south, east, and west gates, with the main gate located on Griffith Street. Plans also include a 100-space parking lot along Jackson Street.

Visitors would be welcomed to campus by an art building, a music building, and an administration building. Money for the art building has been included in the Davidson campaign. Construction on the building will begin within a year.

The music building planned for the corner of Griffith and Main streets is not included in the campaign. William Lawing, associate professor of music, estimated that it will be between 12 and 15 years before that facility is built. The administration building is scheduled to be built even further in the future.

“Would you sell the Mona Lisa?”

Davidson College, however, does not own all of the land included in plans for the new campus. Dr. Donald Copeland owns the 100 x 300 feet around the Copeland house and says he does not intend to sell the land.

“The college has been trying to buy

See DOBER, page 3

NEW CAMPUS

Sketch by Suzanne Craymer

Reform or revolution in USSR?

NCNB has sponsored its second annual Dean Rusk Conference on International Affairs. This year’s program, titled “Reform or Revolution: Gorbachev’s Soviet Union,” opened Tuesday with an address by Alexander Dallin, a 1989 Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar from Stanford University.

"It is a fascinating and difficult time to be observing the Soviet Union," said Dallin. He characterized the changes in the U.S.S.R. as an increasing failure and collapse of institutions and a growing focus on individuals. The conference will conclude Thursday morning. See next week’s issue for in-depth coverage of the various sessions.

Davidson picked 15th best liberal arts college in nation

By JENNIFER HOFFMAN

The 1990 edition of U.S. News and World Report rankings of schools hit the newsstands this Tuesday, announcing Davidson's jump from 20th to 15th on the list of the nation’s best liberal arts colleges. Davidson was also cited as the number 2 “best buy” among national liberal arts colleges because its tuition is second lowest on the list of 25 top schools.

This year’s listing for top schools is based on five criteria: academic reputation, student selectivity, retention, faculty quality, and financial resources.

Top National Liberal Arts Colleges
Here’s how U.S. News & World Report ranks them:
1. Swarthmore College
2. Amherst College
3. Williams College
4. Pomona College
5. Bryn Mawr College
6. Wellesley College
7. Smith College
8. Wesleyan U.
9. Oberlin College
10. Grinnell College
11. Haverford College
12. Middlebury College
13. Bowdoin College
14. Carleton College
15. DAVIDSON COLLEGE
16. Colgate University
17. Mount Holyoke College
18. Washington and Lee U.
19. Vassar College
20. Trinity College
21. Bates College
21. Claremont McKenna College
23. Colby College
23. Hamilton College
25. Barnard College