Harriet Fulton: A nice woman with her own — private

By AWF L. CURSE

find out many details about student life this way. It was better than my network of “Will’s Boys.”

The secret emerged earlier this year when “Andy” shattered his leg swinging from the rafters of Johnston Gym. “Harriet tried to come in to work the next day without her cast on, but it was just too much for her to bear,” said Puppet President John Kuykendall, who immediately called The David's Onion when he learned the truth.

Terry reports that Harriet was an effective counselor, although her alter ego did sometimes pop up in sessions. “It wasn’t often, but when it happened, boy, you were ready for it to end,” said Terry.

Fulton has resigned her post and has taken a job with ABC’s Nightline, where she will present both sides of each story.

HARRIET AND “ANDY”—2 PEOPLE ON DIFFERENT SIDES OF THE SAME HEAD!!!

HELL!

Although maintaining a cool, proper demeanor in her work in the Dean of Students office, assistant dean Harriet Fulton has been keeping a terrible, awful secret for years: she has the face of a Young Republican on the back of her head! Fulton kept the problem deep under wraps. Only Former Dean of Students Will Terry knew about the horrible affliction. “We were able to use it to our advantage,” Terry said from within his colorful costume. “We sent her to class in special clothing under the name of Andy Nilsson. We were able to

VICIOUS P.E.T.E.R. KILLERS

By WILE E. COYOTE

Walking around campus recently, you may have noticed some cuddly rabbits frolicking in the lush green grass. As you stopped to “ooh” and “aah” over the cute creatures, you were probably unaware that an armed and dangerous member of the left-wing campus organization P.E.T.E.R. lurked only a few yards away. Protect the Rabbits, (a.k.a. P.E.T.E.R., as in “Cottontail”) was begun after the announcement that the new delicacy in the Commons would be fricasseed rabbit.

The news was greeted with delight for the most part. Former Dean of Students Will Terry was spotted running towards the Commons, knife and fork in hand. Except for a few grumbles from those who believed that the Commons had served rabbit all along in the guise of beef stroganoff, reaction to the announcement was largely positive.

To finance this expensive new delicacy on the Commons menu without raising tuition 9.3%, Carleton Pritchard pledged that he and the Dining Service staff would be hunting down the “wascally” critters themselves, rather than relying upon suppliers such as Yosemite Sam and Elmer Fudd. Students of the Davidson community were also welcomed to attempt rabbit-trapping themselves. The bounties that the Commons placed on the creatures were apparently quite attractive. Although the campus-wide response seemed to deem fricasseed rabbit a delicacy to be enjoyed, a violent and unexpected backlash soon occurred.

The existence of a terrorist organization on campus was acknowledged last week with the bizarre shooting of one of the students of the “Microanatomy of Vertebrates” class. The victim claimed that she was simply examining the hind leg structure of a rabbit which belonged to the biology department. Upon handling the creature, Uzi machine gun fire rained into the lab.

Later that day, Tripp Helms confessed to the crime. Trembling with outrage, he contended that he had feared for the rabbit’s life. “It reminded me of the toy bunny Flopsy I had when I was just a tot,” he sighed nostalgically.

Helms at this time revealed the existence of P.E.T.E.R. as well as his membership in the group. Apparently, students formed P.E.T.E.R. to protest the serving of the animal in the Commons. Jay Barron, P.E.T.E.R. spokesman, gave this warning to the general public: “We don’t want to see anyone get hurt, but our first concern is for these innocent victims of man’s carnivorous nature. Students must realize that if they go around trapping rabbits in hopes of earning some cash and paying off their phone bills, they are simply taking their lives into their own hands. Every rabbit within a five-mile radius of Belk dormitory is being guarded 24 hours a day.”

RELIGION professor Trent Foley, according to friends, was never the same after basketball coach Bobby Hussey referred to him as a “frustrated jock.”