Wednesday, September 20, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hasty returns to flock as Davidson’s chaplain

By MARGARET CARROLL

Chuck Hasty, a familiar face on the Davidson College campus, recently returned as Davidson's new chaplain. After two years without a chaplain, Davidson chose Hasty, an ‘83 graduate of Davidson, to fill the position.

“Since Davidson has not had a chaplain for the past two years, I have a lot of freedom in shaping the role of chaplain,” said Hasty. “I want to be the chaplain for all aspects of the college: students, faculty, and staff, not just for the Christians.”

One of Hasty’s main goals for the upcoming year is to create a warm climate for community on campus and in the town of Davidson as well. By participating in services at Davidson College Presbyterian Church and Davidson Presbyterian Church, Hasty hopes to unite the community.

As Davidson’s chaplain, Hasty, along with the members of the Chapel Committee, will be responsible for programming events for the Tuesday Eleventh Hour worship services weekly. “I’m excited that the college has set aside these hours as a time to build community, and I see it as a great opportunity to do just that,” said Hasty.

He says he hopes to bring to the campus new and unique programs, including dance, drama, and other worship forms, in order to show that there are many ways to worship God. His aim is that these programs will appeal to many students and will make more options for worship available on campus.

Hasty says that many college students today seem to be yearning for both intellectual and spiritual influence in their lives, and he wants to help provide opportunities for investigating questions and concerns for those who are and who are not already involved in religious life on campus.

“I would like to be visible and available to all students,” said Hasty. “When students are ready to ask questions or just to talk, they can come to me.”

Hasty anticipates working with the staff and faculty of Davidson and hopes to serve as a liaison between them and the students in certain situations. He says he would like to plan discussion groups on AIDS, dating, divorce, racial issues, and any other topics that students might like to discuss. He would also like to plan some international mission trips as well as to continue past projects that the chaplain’s office has sponsored such as Awareness Weekend, discussion dinners, week of prayer for Christian unity, and the Martin Luther King, Jr. Gospel fest.

Hasty is originally from Athens, Georgia. After graduating from Davidson in 1983, he taught school in Kenya with the Kenya Connection. He attended Columbia Theological Seminary, and at the end of his second year, Hasty had an internship as an associate pastor in Tokyo, Japan at an international interdenominational church. Hasty finished at Columbia in May 1989, and spent the past summer at Georgia Baptist Medical Center in Atlanta participating in a clinical pastoral education program.

Since Hasty has come to Davidson, many people have asked, “What does a chaplain do?” His typical response has been, “I’m in the process of finding that out myself!”

“I would like to be visible and available to all students,” says Hasty, who is pictured here playing cricket in front of Chambers. Photo by Robert Marshall

Looking at the world beyond Davidson

Thousands rush to Hungary’s open borders.

By CAROL GATEWOOD

HUNGARY: More than 16,000 refugees have poured into Hungary since it opened its borders last week. In the midst of this historic exodus, emigres on Sunday said that East German and Czechoslovakian authorities have stopped giving passports, travel documents, and visas. Other Warsaw Pact nations have condemned Hungary’s willingness to help refugees, but the Soviet Union has made no direct criticism towards Hungary. The Washington Post reported that Hungary did talk with the Kremlin before it let East Germans leave. Former ambassador to East Germany Rozanne Ridgway stated her...belief that this was probably true. Meanwhile, West Germans have ambivalent feelings towards this exodus. Many skilled workers believe their jobs are jeopardized by this new influx of competent workers.

CHINA: For the first time in at least three months, Deng Xiaoping appeared in public and named Jiang Zemin his heir as leader of the Communist Party. Jiang is described as “a cosmopolitan technocrat” and he speaks both fluent English and Russian. The New York Times stated that Deng hopes Jiang will be a more mainstream leader, unlike Li Peng, and he has been pinpointed for his policy of “economic openness to the Western world.” Deng still plays a large role in the future of China’s political scheme, for Jiang must not only win Deng’s “continued support,” but if Deng dies, the new leader will undoubtedly be faced with a power struggle.

THE CARIBBEAN: Hurricane Hugo swept through Caribbean islands including the U.S. Virgin Islands and French Guadeloupe. Possibly the area’s most powerful storm in the last ten years, Hugo has left hundreds homeless, especially since hitting Puerto Rico.

AUSTRALIA: On Monday more than 60 nations came together to discuss chemical weapons proliferation and “the longer-term issue of completing and carrying out a global treaty” banning the possession and use of poison gas. Assembled by the Australian government, the conference expanded its goals past a discussion of proliferation so that Third World nations would attend. Western officials, including U.S. Secretary of State James Baker, were disappointed with this change.

EL SALVADOR: Joaquin Villalobos, the chief military strategist of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN) in El Salvador, said in an interview last Sunday that the guerilla insurgency he leads would “cease hostilities” if the U.S. government cut off its military aid to the rightist government. In the last decade, the U.S. has sent over $1 billion in military aid and $2 billion in economic aid to El Salvador. The civil war has killed over 70,000 people and displaced over 1 million.

Campus Crime Corner

Camera, wallets, and car parts stolen last week

Several items were stolen from Union Program Coordinator Ruth Pittard’s purse last Wednesday, September 13, at approximately 2:30 p.m. The purse was in Pittard’s unlocked office in the Union at the time of the theft. The thief took a black camera, a brown wallet, credit cards, and a diamond engagement ring.

Last Thursday in the library, $25 and a second check from senior Emmie Cunningham's wallet were stolen. Cunningham describes the thief as a male with dark skin and hair. She saw him lingering around her table before the theft. When Cunningham noticed her wallet missing, she started searching through the library. She found the suspect, but he fled when she started talking to him. The suspect was wearing a tan and blue shirt with dark green pants.

Former student Kimberly Beach reported the license plate missing from her 1981 brown Chevrolet. The car was parked in the fine arts parking lot. The theft occurred sometime between September 12-17.

Two car-related thefts were reported in the satellite parking lot this week. A supine Boyd Miller’s 1984 CRX white hatchback. Last Thursday at 5 p.m., John McLelland reported a rear plastic tail light taken from his Ford Mustang.

Crime Prevention Tip

Many people believe the honor code renders Davidson a crime-free utopia. However, as this report shows, this is not the case. Don't make yourself an easy victim. This week’s tip is for joggers and walkers. Even in Davidson, running through dark streets alone at 11 p.m. is extremely dangerous. If you must exercise at night, please bring a friend. Another hint: carry a can of mace (guys too).

Compiled by Suzanne Craymer, with help from the campus police.