4 Black History Month

The black experience at Davidson

By TRENT STEVENS

Throughout most of Davidson College’s history, the typical student has been a white, male Protestant. Anyone of a different background
who could be found on campus was usually a cook, a custodian, or a housekeeper. It was not until the
1960s that things began to change. For as late as 1959, college President Grier Martin was quoted as saying, “It
is not in the best interests of the college to admit Negro students at this time.”

The pressure to integrate did not come from within the college, but from an outside source: the Board of World
Missions of the Presbyterian Church. According to the May 8, 1981 issue of The Davidsonian, “The Board wanted to train
young Congolese in church-supported colleges in the South. They recommended specific students to Davidson and guaranteed financial support until their
graduation.” On February 15, 1961, the Board of Trustees approved the Board of Missions’ request. However, they would only accept
students who had been chosen by the Board of Missions, were well qualified, and Congolese. No black Americans or black
students of nations other than what is now Zaire could be accepted.

On May 17, 1962, a large majority of the Trustees of Davidson College voted in favor of admitting students regardless
of race or nationality. This announcement came at a time when only 53 percent of Davidson College students wanted integration.
The change in policy was also disapproved of by many of Davidson’s businesses, five of which publicly refused to serve
black students with remarks such as “I’ll close that door and go home,” “I’ll ask them to leave,” and “anybody
that fools with them is a damn fool.” So the first black students to be accepted were not welcomed with
everyone’s open arms.

Religion Professor Dan Rhodes was assigned to head a committee to help the college and the community to adjust to
the new students. According to Rhodes, “It is very difficult to make the blacks feel comfortable. It’s one thing to
accept blacks into the school and another thing entirely to make them feel comfortable.”

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center to recommend qualified students to study for one
year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly
enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S.
College in Oxford. A special summer session is directed by WISC.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media, and with think tanks. Government and Journalism
Officials, who are also scholars, and experienced professionals direct the internships. Similar policy internships are offered (with academic credit) in
London (Fall, Spring, and Summer).

International Studies Center
Washington, D.C. 20009
(202) 547-3275
4th St., N.E. Suite 238
EO / AA

The first African student to enter Davidson was Benoit Nzengu. He was soon followed by Georges Nzongola. They were slowly
accepted at first, but the college community put pressure upon the town to give them fair treatment. Martin managed to
convince the owners of several Charlotte movie theaters to admit Nzengu, but he was required to give prior notice and
bring two white students, one to sit on each side of him in the theater. Their acceptance by the white
community was facilitated by the fact that they were foreigners, and they were served in restaurants, barber shops, and other
establishments that would not serve local blacks. The students seemed to handle the new policy well, but many taboos, suchAs
interracial dating took a while for the students to swallow, the first American blacks to be accepted were Leslie Brown
and Wayne Crumwell, who graduated from Davidson in 1968. Brown was his high school’s valedictorian, National Honor Society president, Student
Council president, yearbook editor, and a member of his school’s debate team. Crumwell was also a top student, ranking in
the top 5% of his high school class. He was later to note that “You can’t integrate fully here or
anywhere else. What good is integrating if the feeling behind it is not real?”

But discrimination in Davidson had not taken its last breath. Many feel that a local restaurant, the Coffee Cup, sent
star basketball player Charlie Scott to the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, when it refused to serve him and
his parents unless they sat in the segregated section. The incident may have cost the Wildcats’ basketball team a national
championship.

A boycott and picketing of Ralph Johnson’s barbershop in 1968 was considered by many the summit of Davidson’s radical sentiment
in the flower child era. Local barbershops had refused to serve local blacks because they felt that their white customers
would become disloyal if they did serve them. Johnson later blamed the strike for his business’ subsequent failure. Ken Norton
of Norton’s Barbershop was once quoted as saying, “You can’t teach a dog new tricks and you can’t expect these
men to change overnight,” but he feels the change was inevitable.

In the 1970s, the process began to slow down. Black students began to realize that the hardest part of Davidson
wasn’t getting in; it was finding a reason to stay. Even in the 1980s, black students at Davidson must contend
with a relative lack of social life and identity crises, not to mention white students’ preconceived notions about blacks and
their culture. One group that is attempting to make the situation more palatable is the Black Student Coalition (BSC), which
schedules activities to bring blacks together. BSC president Marino Bruce feels that there are still barriers to be broken down.
For example, he feels that white students often accept him as an athlete before he is accepted as a student.
“They refuse to give blacks credit on their own merit,” he states. “The students are unsympathetic to the minority situation.
They don’t know and they don’t care to know.”

With minorities making up only a small fraction of the college body, there are few who share the same experiences.
And with only five black faculty members, there are even fewer role models for minority students to follow. But despite
all of this, many minority students feel that there are some positive aspects of going to Davidson. Bruce says that
“the best thing (about Davidson) is the attempt by some administrators, such as the president, to improve the minority situation
on campus.” Senior Peter Mangone, a member of a student/faculty committee studying the diversity of Davidson’s students, says, “The faculty
and the administration are committed to identifying and solving any problems that exist on campus involving minority students.”

On May 18, 1962, Bill Hagen, associate editor of The Davidsonian, had this to say about Davidson’s integration: “It reflects
the ancient liberalism of a forgotten past, that of the oldest Old South, the South that prior to 1840 sponsored
the first abolitionist societies in the country.” While that past is certainly a dim memory, perhaps the 1990s will bring
that elusive freedom that eludes many today.

---

Earn money, fame, and another item to add to your resume. JOIN The Davidsonian’s ADVERTISING STAFF. Contact Hutch “John” Hutchinson
(-6110) or Scooter “Bill” “P.O.” Scouten (-6078) for more information!
