*&&k*& THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH Anniversary Issue x %& %& April 1989

The Eighties: stability

The 1980s brought stability to Davidson after the turbulent 60s and 70s. Women became firmly cemented on the campus in
numbers and influence. After President Sam Spencer's surprise resignation and a one-year search, John Kuykendall was plucked from Auburn University's
religion department to head Davidson, and he was installed at the 1984 Fall Convocation.

Physical changes to Davidson include the completion of Vail Commons in 1984 and the groundbreaking of the Baker Sports Complex
that will replace Johnston Gym. Six new dorms appeared in the 1980s: Irwin, Akers, and Knox dormitories and, more recently,
the three as yet unnamed apartment buildings adjacent to Covington Golf Course.

Academically speaking, the faculty voted twice to change the calendar, once reversing itself in 1983 and finally switching the college
to a semester system from the trimester plan for the 1988-89 school year. Davidson enjoyed a growing reputation for excellence
in the 1980s and was ranked as high as ninth in U.S. News and World Report's study of national liberal
arts colleges.

While these changes have affected and will continue to affect Davidson College, the 80s revealed a great deal of turbulence
in terms of the leisure time of the community. The fraternity/eating house structure was under some interesting if not profound
changes, our taste in music varied, our interest in football dwindled and peaked for various reasons, and even our political
biases underwent differentiation. Patterson Court can be said to have become a different entity altogether. In eight years, houses have
folded, opened, and a national fraternity...

See 1980s, Page 25

The automatic bid: how sweet it was to have the opportunity to win the Southern Conference tournament and qualify for
the NCAA. The Wildcats hadn’t been there since 1970, which was during the first year of the Terry Holland era,
and now they were going back.

It was March of 1986 and Davidson was having its most successful season under fifth-year head coach Bobby Hussey. The
Cats finished the regular season 10-6 in the Conference and 17-10 overall.

December 10, 1982 excerpt from an article by David Resnik:

The Town Police have killed squirrels since they began in early November. The Campus police killed 62 squirrels over...

Many residents ate the dead squirrels, and the town police froze the leftovers for later consumption. The Campus police gave
their dead squirrels to many of the janitors and maintenance men. “What was killed, was eaten,” said Captain Hughes.

December 7, 1983 Editorial:
The last chapter was written in Davidson’s semester saga yesterday; the faculty overwhelmingly voted to remain on trimesters. Many of
you may feel that this whole ordeal was a waste of time and are glad it’s over. Even though considering
semesters resulted in no real action, it was useful because it allowed the school to reconsider its educational policies.

March 20, 1987 excerpt from Betsy Bryan's article on Emanon’s closing:

A lack of members will force Emanon, one of Davidson's two remaining co-ed eating houses, to close completely next fall;
however, a successful fundraiser at the end of the winter term will allow Emanon to remain as a social house
for the remainder of spring term.

(President) Stephens attributes the decrease in membership to a change in the social atmosphere at Davidson. “The houses on the
court are the same, but the social environment of Davidson has changed in the past few years. When it started
in the early 70s with PAX, ETC, and the other co-ed houses, Emanon was going strong. Up until 1982, there
was a waiting list to get in. But now for some reason, people are heading back to the frats and
single-sex houses. Since the administration doesn’t allow purely social houses on the Court, it looks like this spring will be
Emanon’s last term.”

By Trent Stevens

Davidson wins SC Tournament

In the first round of the tournament, the second-seeded Wildcats knocked off a tough V.M.I. team 71-62. The Keydets had
beaten Davidson only five days before in the final game of the regular season. Surprisingly, the next day, Davidson faced
East Tennessee State, who had upset overconfident Marshall. Davidson beat ETSU 74-65 and was on to face Tennessee-Chattanooga for the
Southern Conference championship. That championship game reminded you of the pre-45-second shot clock days: This...

See BORN AGAIN, Page 25

HEAR YE, HEAR YE.

TOWN MEETING for area college students

McKnight Lecture Hall
Monday, April 14
UNCC
8 PM

No formal speeches—
Congressman Jim Martin wants to listen to you.

Congressman Jim Martin

APRIL 11, 1980

Founded in 1945

"From Concept To Finished Product"
With Forty Years Of Service,

Mullen Publications, Inc.
Proud To Print
"The Davidsonian"

4900 Wallace Neal Rd. • P.O. Box 668926 • Charlotte, NC 28266 • 704-394-5111
