Wednesday, December 6, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

In Good Health

FOOD GROUP
Meat
Breads, cereals, potatoes
Fruit
Vegetables
Eggs
Soups
Desserts
Fats
Beverages
Sweets
Cheese, yogurt, milk.

The Story of Food Info

By MARK D. PUCKETT

FOODS ALLOWED
5-6 ounces a day:
Skinless poultry, turkey, fish, pork, veal, or fresh lean beef that has been baked, broiled, grilled, or microwaved.

Whole wheat, rye, and pumpernickel bread.
Melba toast, graham crackers, English muffins, cereals, saltines, hard rolls.
Potatoes, rice, noodles, macaroni, and other pasta.
Pretzels.

Cheese made from skim milk, 1% fat cottage cheese. Yogurt made from skim milk.

Limit to 3 cups a day:
Skim or 1/2% milk

All fruit and fruit juices.
Fresh, frozen, or canned vegetables.

Three whole eggs per week.

Clear bouillon or broth.

Fruit ices, sherbet, ice milk, gelatin, pudding made with skim milk and egg whites, angel food cake, meringues, ginger snaps,
sugar cookies, and vanilla wafers.

Limit to 3 teaspoons a day: margarine, liquid oil, and salad dressings containing the following oils—sunflower, safflower, corn, soybean, and
olive. Nuts except cashew and macadamia.

Water, fruit drinks, juices, lemonade, and occasional soft drinks.

Sugar, honey, molasses, marmalade, jam, and hard candy. Limited.

THE END

A couple of decades ago my father’s father—my grandfather—passed on the following story to his son—my father. Just recently, my
father passed it on to me—his son. And now I pass it on to you—my peers.

Once, long ago, a lubberly man lived in ignorance. He ate whatever he wanted and he ate heartily. He didn’t
know any better. One day, Silas Puckett, a traveling salesman and physiological gadfly, interrupted the lubberly man during dinner and
sold him a list. The list changed the lubberly man’s life because now he knew better. Here is that list:

FOODS TO AVOID

Organ meats, duck, goose, sausage, spare ribs, luncheon meats, frankfurters, bacon, canned meats, frozen, or packaged dinners and pizza. Fried
meats.

Biscuits, muffins, doughnuts, sweet rolls, fried snack foods. Potato and snack chips.

Butter crackers or rich crackers. Cereals made with palm or coconut oils or coconut.

Cheese made from whole milk, processed cheese, cheese spreads.

Whole or 2% (low-fat) milk, malts, shakes, condensed milk, instant hot chocolate mixes.

Skimmed buttermilk.

Canned fruit in heavy syrup. Avocado more than once a week.

Vegetables fried or prepared in butter, cheese, or cream sauce.

Egg yolks in excess of 3 per week.

Soups made with butter, cream, 2% or whole milk.

Desserts made with whole or 2% milk, butter, cream, egg yolk, chocolate; ice cream; commercially prepared mixes, pies, cheesecake. Pastries
or pie crusts. Butter croissants.

Butter, lard, solid shortening, non-dairy creamers, non-dairy whipped toppings, sour cream, sweet or whipping cream, salad dressings containing cream or
cheese, or cream cheese.

Coconut beverages. Coffee. Tea.

Chocolate candy or candy made with cream.

The listed information was plagiar—uh, cited from the Community Hospital of Roanoke Valley Nutrition Services Newsletter.

...with a visit to The Village Store. There you will find lots of wonderful ideas for thoughtful ways to usher
in the holiday season.

PICTURE PERFECT PROCESSING
In as little as One hour.

High Quality Developing, Portraits, Black & White, Slides, Copying Old Prints, Enlargements are a few of our services.

We offer a 24-hour drop box and welcome commercial accounts.

Free Second Prints (Limit two rolls with this ad)
Only For Davidson Students With Valid Davidson I.D.

20619 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Southlake Shopping Center
Between Roses and Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC 28031

Lake 1 hr. Photo Inc. (704) 892-5400
HOURS: M-F 10-8 Sat. 10-5

A Little Bit Faster...A Whole Lot Better

NORTH FACE
15% Off jackets by Northface, Woolrich & Vuarnet Sunglasses
ONLY WITH THIS AD!

I-77 TO EXIT 28 (HWY 73 WEST)
ON TORRENCE CHAPEL ROAD
IN SHOPS ON THE GREEN, CORNELIUS, NC

OPEN: MON-FRI 10-8 SAT 10-5
