**Wednesday, November 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN:**

**Art department prepares to grow as plans for a new visual arts center are announced**

**Blueprints are ready, but building schedule will depend on how fast the money is raised**

By GARY WHEELER

Plans for the new visual arts center were unveiled at last Wednesday’s Open Luncheon. Art professor Herb Jackson said that construction of the $9 million facility is targeted to begin in the fall of 1991.

The new center will help alleviate the overcrowded condition of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, which now serves as the home for the art, music, and theatre departments.

Shannon Mullen, a senior art major, described some of Cunningham's shortcomings. “Several art classes use the same work space at the same time,” he said. He also added that the size of the building severely limits storage space and working time in Cunningham.

The new visual arts center will have seven private studios for senior art majors. If there are more than seven majors, the studios will be assigned on a “competitive basis,” said Jackson.

According to Jackson, the architectural firm Graham Gund was selected from a pool of over twenty candidates. Gund was faced with the task of designing a unified facility that isolated separate functions from one another, because “certain art areas are clean and certain art areas are dirty,” Jackson said.

The visual arts center is divided into four main sections: the art history building, the gallery and printmaking wings (both connected to the art history building by a covered walkway), and the sculpture pavilion which will be built behind the main building.

The entire center will be 42,000 square feet and will be built on the corner of Main and Griffith Streets.

Starting construction of the project in the fall of 1991 depends on fund raising. At least $3.5 million must be raised before construction can begin.

Jackson hopes that the visual arts center will meet the needs of the department in the future. The center does not include areas for photography or architecture, but Jackson says that this reflects the difference between “vision and reality.”

“We have to acknowledge our position as an undergraduate institution with limited funds,” said Jackson.