Thursday, March 9, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

July Experience counselor forms available

Applications to be a July Experience counselor are now available in the Education Department, Chambers 136. Anyone interested, pick up
an application now.

More celebration of Women’s History Month

On Monday, March 13, Davidson graduate and American Civil Liberties Union Lawyer Aurie Hall will speak on “The Status of
Reproductive Rights For Women” at 4 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. On Tuesday, March 14, Jean
O’Barr will present the keynote speech for Women’s History Month at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College
Union. The lecture is entitled “The Necessity of Women’s Studies in Liberal Arts Education.”

Library summer jobs

Anyone interested in a summer job at the College Library can pick up an application.

SGA Senate elections

Sign-ups to run for SGA class senators will be available starting Tuesday, March 28. Sign up in the Dean of
Students office. Candidates can sign up in Chambers and the Union from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Three senators for
the sophomore, junior, and senior classes for next year will be elected.

Women must not sell themselves short, says graduate

Elizabeth Kiss, Rhodes Scholar, speaks on feminism April 1, 1989:
By HEATH HARDAGE

The challenges of women now venturing into realms previously reserved for men were discussed recently by 1983 Davidson graduate Elizabeth
Kiss.

“A bishop who doesn’t have a penis... why is that enough to split the Anglican Church?”
“Why do we find submissiveness in women sexy?”
“Why do most women want to marry a man who is taller and smarter than they are?”

These questions reflect the broad range covered at the lecture. Entitled “Redefining Politics: The Challenge of Feminism,” the speech was
sponsored by the Alumni Lecture Series and is one of the events highlighting Women’s History Month at Davidson.

Kiss is currently assistant professor of political science at Princeton University and is working towards her doctorate degree. While at
Davidson, she was a Stuart Scholar, editor of The Davidsonian as a sophomore, and founder of the Amnesty International chapter
at the college. She studied at the Sorbonne in Paris, France as a junior, and in her senior year, won
a Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University.

Kiss regards the past 15 years of coeducation at Davidson as “an incredibly short time.” She remembers the argument that
“coeducation would overburden the electrical circuits at Davidson,” because women would be using hairdryers and curling irons all the time.
She cited the admissions policy during her enrollment at Davidson as a major challenge to feminism: “The fact that the
justifications offered for this quota were sexist. I do understand that that’s changed.”

Kiss went on to reveal that “although I never experienced sexism in the classroom [at Davidson] there were an awful
lot of women who sold themselves very short in the classroom by playing dumb.”

Kiss defined feminist theory as “an attempt to understand and articulate women’s experiences... and how to make it better.” Feminist
theory has “a rich and diverse set of approaches,” she said. These approaches often contradict each other, she continued.

“What makes the feminist challenge so important,” said Kiss, “is that it strikes so close to home. Sex is inescapable.”
According to Kiss, women have been silenced and oppressed for centuries: “It was said that a woman’s function was reproduction.”
Because of this belief, women have often been excluded from all important public spheres such as economics and politics as
well, she said. “Women who ventured into politics were treading in dangerous territory.” Kiss noted that even today, “most important
social institutions are overwhelmingly headed by men.” This “bizarre nature of the exclusion of women from the political sphere” is
partially due to the fact that women have not articulated their experience as men have, she commented. Women, as well
as men, said Kiss, “need the opportunity to be theorists.”

Think 75! Senior gift announced

Money will go to benefit summer service project scholarships

By PETER BYNUM

Following in the tradition of every class since 1983, this year’s senior class has announced its intention to leave a
parting gift with the college. After much discussion, the class has decided that its gift will be a service scholarship
designed to provide money for students to use in summer service projects. According to class president Hap Bryant, the seniors
hope to fund the scholarship with an endowment collected from the seniors over a five-year period. Since only the interest
generated by the endowment will be used, this year’s gift will keep on giving for years to come.

Scheduled to begin after Spring Break, the fundraising effort will be overseen by a committee of twelve headed by Craig
Carlock and Susie Grant.Each committee member will be in charge of about five persons who will personally solicit each man
and woman in the senior class. With a preliminary goal of around $59,000, the committee is hoping that every senior
will pledge an average of $50 per year for the next four years. The specifics of the scholarship are still
being finalized and will be published in a brochure later this year.

PERRY, from page 1

Husein, the President of Iraq, Mr. Mubarak, the President of Egypt, Miss Bhutto of Pakistan, or any number of other
Arab or Muslim leaders we could name, standing up before the Parliament or wherever and saying “kill the author.” But
I think if you put it that way it’s possible to say yes, there are international laws. And there are
East and West, and they transcend religion and everything else; they are based on international law. But calling on the
death of an author doesn’t fit.

Davidsonian: So the domestic implications make Iran’s reaction much more violent as compared to other Muslim countries?

Ambassador Perry: That's right. I would agree with that.

Davidsonian: Focusing on the “freedom of expression.” President Khamenei of Iran said that Western governments had made the mistake of
confusing “freedom of expression with the freedom to insult one billion Muslims.” Obviously, the Christian faith has experienced a similar
problem with The Last Temptation of Christ. What is your reaction in allowing “freedom of expression” to criticize various religious
faiths?

Ambassador Perry: I think I would say that you have to consider national cultures when you talk about “freedom of
expression” because, if we are honest with ourselves, we will admit not every country has the same definition. I think
it can be guaranteed that that book will not be published in the Soviet Union, for example, and in quite
a few other countries. We, in the United States, have a very liberal interpretation of freedom to publish anything. In
fact, even pornography has gone a very far long way, and a lot of Americans worry about that. We interpret
these things broadly. A lot of countries are not that broad-minded, and a number of things can’t be published. Now,
there is a difference between some control of what’s published and actual book-burning, such as the Nazis did. But I
think we have to admit not everybody publishes just everything. Perhaps a closer look, a little more discipline by the
editors, would have led to the removal of a few sentences and so forth, and could have removed some of
the offensive stuff. That wouldn’t bother me. I don’t think we should be too absolute that any author can write
anything in the world and get it published. I don’t think that should be.

Finally, because of Khomeini’s threat, 12 members of the European Community have withdrawn their top-ranking diplomats from Tehran in protest.
The United States has been slow in its reaction; then again, the United States has had no diplomats in Iran
since 1979. The question, then, is do you foresee any changes in U.S. foreign policy toward Iran?

Ambassador Perry: Well, you know I was serving as the Ambassador to Bulgaria when they released the hostages. We had
a little meeting of our embassy staff to celebrate, and somebody said, “Well, why don’t you say a few words.”
And I said, “This is a funny thing to say right now, but I think we should all remember that
Iran is a very important country that we have long ties of friendship with, and because of this incident we
shouldn’t write them off.” Well, I still feel that, and I think that for too long a time the revolution
in Iran has colored our thinking. And I’ll admit that some of the things they do are not happy things
like seizing the embassy. But I do think that just from the point of view of international politics or diplomacy
Iran is a very important country and a very crucial place. And unfortunately, it is right next door to the
Soviet Union. The Soviets have been skillful, it seems to me, in moving into a vacuum of power we are
losing. At the same time, I’ll admit we are caught here. You don’t want to say to the Ayatollah, “Well,
fine. You go ahead and call for the murder of anybody you want to, and we'll pat you on the
back.” We can’t do that. It is very unfortunate that the Iranian Revolution, twice now with these two incidents, has
put the West and especially the Americans in a position of having to oppose Iran. We are not really opposed
to Iran; we are opposed to some of these acts of their present government. And those will eventually change. So
you have to take the long view, but I think for the moment that anything we can do to get
past the crisis and move towards normal relations with Iran is in our best interest.
