The musicians in our midst

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

On a warm summer day, music rolls over the campus. Not the music heard on the radio or in concert, but new sounds that capture instant curiosity. Since the Singer-Songwriter Night’s debut at the Union, this original music has sprung to the forefront of campus attention.

The music written on campus varies widely in terms of subject, style, and purpose. Subjects range from personal experiences to humorous social commentaries. Senior Mike Schill composed Disco Trucker for the band, The Jim and Tammy Show, which played at Fiji, PIKA, and the ATO House. The song focuses on a ’70s truck driver who rides the “boogie line” in his “poly suit,” looking for a disco queen. Schill says that “rock n’ roll, The Velvet Underground, and Schafer beer” influence his music.

Junior Robert Austell writes complex piano pieces with intense emotional content. He uses his music as an outlet, writing when “real happy or real sad—usually late at night.” Austell plays jazz on keyboard, which affects a lot of his music. He also composes sing-along songs for Intervarsity.

See MUSICIANS, page 6

Artist-in-residence Hassell combines nature and society

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Artist-in-residence Billy Hassell has felt a unique bond to the world around him since childhood days. As a youth playing outside or studying biology, nature became a profound influence in his life. A current Chambers Gallery exhibit of his drawings, paintings, and prints focuses on the theme of human society as revealed through nature.

The exhibition runs from February 21 to March 3 on weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hassell introduced the exhibition last Tuesday with a slide presentation of his work.

Hassell’s paintings combine realistic symbols with abstract designs as brightly colored fish, birds, and other animals appear randomly arranged. Paintings utilize empty space and startling patterns. “I try to create a painting with its own internal logic and find a new way to combine elements,” he said.

Some of Hassell’s work accents ancient mythology, with its many references to animals, as a link between nature and society. He uses animals as symbols to probe the loss of meaning within our culture. In a painting entitled “Hungry Spirits,” Hassell includes buffalo, birds, and foxes as mythological creatures representing society’s search for the things in which it once believed.

Hassell often finds that animals compete for food in the same way that humans struggle for power. By closely observing nature at his Texas home, he gained an appreciation of the struggle for survival within nature.

All animals, prey and predator alike, depend on one another to live, he said. “It’s the natural order of things. The paintings aspire to serve as reminders of these relationships and to reassert their importance and relevance to man.”

Hassell said the one-year Davidson residency has freed him from deadline pressure and helped him develop the themes represented in the current show. He previously held four one-person shows in only nine months. “It was real frustrating because I never had a chance to develop ideas, I was more concerned with producing paintings, churning out work,” he said.

At Davidson, Hassell teaches basic drawing, basic studio, and advanced painting classes. He earned an M.F.A. degree from the University of Mass. in 1982.

Photo by Alex Hayden

Tom Vinton (1) and Sebastien Douzel, a French student, make music in the electronic music room in Cunningham.