4% ad Commentaries The Davidsonian

“Gruesome nightmare on Bhopal streets”
Pankaj Talwar

It was THE night of 23 December, the year: 1984. For 800,000 people in Bhopal, the capital of Madhya Pradesh, it was a Black Monday with a difference; instead of a stock market crash where fortunes were lost, it was a disaster where lives were lost. Around 12:30 a.m., a toxic, dangerous, lethal, deadly, poisonous, villainous, and extremely hazardous killer gas, methyl isocyanate (MIC), leaked out of the plant and descended on the unsuspecting city of Bhopal, converting the city into a huge gas chamber. It was a scenario directly out of any disaster movie; the difference being the reality of scenes instead. Most of the people were sleeping outside their homes, while the others in their homes with the windows open as the night was very pleasant.

Lapses in safety and maintenance procedures at the plant resulted in water and chemicals seeping into the MIC storage tank. The resulting reaction saw the temperature in the tanks and the pressure in the valves rise dramatically. The valves gave way and the MIC seeped out of the underground storage. Wanton negligence was responsible; the prime enemy in the late 60’s and early 70’s. UCC’s Iron-alloy plant at W.Va. was rated the Smokiest factory in the world and the authorities had to pack a statue of St. Anthony in that area in plastic in order to save it from being fully blackened.

The most damaging and clearly visible evidence against the owners of UCC in the United States was the negligence on the part of the multinational in not installing the same computerized safety system it had at a similar UCC plant in West Virginia. Also, there was no information available on the adherence and strictness of similar regulations in Bhopal. As Dr. Avashia said on the 28th of March, “there were no after effects of the gas leak; so many people die in India every day, what difference does it make if some hundreds more die.” But, “On an average, one gas victim succumbs to his injuries every day - pushing up the toll to 3,289 now. MIC has ravaged the vitals of human as well as ecological systems, increasing the incidence of various diseases.” (India Today, Dec. 1988).

He also said that a similar kind of disaster could not take place in the United States’s identical UCC plant because people here live in airtight houses, do not sleep outside and are literate, with which I agree but I would like to mention another reason which altogether rules out the remote possibility of a disaster—the presence of a computerized safety system and a four-stage alarm system instead of only one manual back-up alarm system in Bhopal. Such a callous appraisal cannot, under any circumstances, be condoned. No criticism can be too mild; no condemnation can be too harsh. Looking at the reputation of UCC and the working of the plants, which according to Dr. Avashia was impeccable. UCC has one of the worst records as a company. Among all the U.S. companies, UCC was called the environment’s prime enemy in the late 60’s and early 70’s. UCC’s negligence was responsible; the company fully culpable.

Almost a fourth of the population was affected; nearly 2,500 people died in the first week. The nightmare began with eyes watering, soon the victims could hardly breathe. The people began running for the hills, they were desperate to escape the invisible killer.

THE FAIL-SAFE FAILURE
1. MIC Storage Tanks. Pressure in tank 610 builds up alarmingly because of an extremely violent chemical reaction and MIC vapor escapes rupturing a safety disc and popping the safety valve. Tank 619 was available but nobody opened the valves between the two tanks to relieve pressure in 610.
2. Scrubber is supposed to spray caustic soda on escaping vapors to neutralize them. The scrubber was shut down for maintenance.IC on Lee the top, the 33-meter high vent line. Fortune nap ba de- were blinded as they ran; a “Re leh ystem keeps cool but was out of commission and tank 610 could not be cooled. UCC was described as “a reactionary with little children in their arms. The Water Curtain, which could have neutralized the MIC, was designed to reach a height of 12 to 15 meters, but the MIC vapor was gushing out 33 meters above the ground. Anyway, the Bhopal plant was the most vulnerable and leak-prone of all UCC’s MIC plants. Those who didn’t run woke up to find their children beside them dying, or already dead. An official who was asked about moving the rotting carcasses of cattle snapped: “You are asking about cattle, but we are having difficulty handling all the human bodies.” (Times, Dec. ’84). “Most of the mothers didn’t know that children had died, children didn’t know mothers had died, and men didn’t know their families had died.” (The London Times).

The five elaborate fail-safe systems which had been designed to prevent precisely such an occurrence had failed just at the most appropriate and needy time. It wasn’t as though the management of the UCC (Union Carbide Corporation) was unaware that some of the systems were under repair, and indeed, had been so for quite a while. According to some officials, the management of UCC had no authority to operate the MIC unit without having at least two preventive measures in perfect working order. The UCC holds 50.9% of the Indian unit’s equity, therefore it had the majority in making decisions and also possessed veto power over the policies and practices in Bhopal. Decision-making was very much centralized in UCC. The systems that failed were: 1. Vent gas scrubber, 2. The flare tower, 3. The water curtain, 4. The refrigeration system, 5. The spare tank. (India Today, Dec. 1984).

It’s an irony that the occurrence of the Bhopal tragedy has been another outcry in Indian UCC plants as it was in the United States’ UCC plant. Hence, the UCC in Bhopal did not follow the more rigid safety standards laid down at factories producing MIC anywhere else in the world. In a way, “the multinationals are increasingly moving the production of lethal chemicals from their base countries to their far-flung outposts in the third world, where safety standards are low and public liability legislation almost absent.” (Illustrated Weekly of India). Many were treated for stinging, swollen eyes. A number of survivors would never see again. (Photo reprinted from Time, December 17, 1984).

UCC’s liability is obvious in the light of the following:
1. If there is a design deficiency then the Holding (Parent) company is to be blamed.
2. There appears to be no early warning system.
3. In the light of an earlier case against Shriram Chemicals in New Delhi where a toxic gas leak took place but on a smaller scale, the Supreme Court of India held the owner of a hazardous unit automatically liable if “harm results to anyone on account of an accident,” even if it was no fault of the owner.
4. UCC cannot escape its responsibility, as it owns more than 50% of the equity.

“Reminders of the world’s worst industrial disaster are caught in a vice between a compliant government and a company whose sole pursuit has largely been: profit at ANY COST. Whose life is it anyway?” (I.W.I., Dec. ’84). Humanity pays the price for the blessings of progress, which instead of becoming a boon become a bane and the world just gasps and sighs and gets back to normal!

Pankaj Talwar is an international student from New Delhi, India.