Monday, February 20, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Maki Mandela addresses UNCC crowd

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

In the UNCC auditorium on February 8, Maki Mandela, daughter of imprisoned South African activist Nelson Mandela, talked about the
horrors of apartheid. Mandela drew from personal experiences as a social worker to illustrate the black situation in South Africa.
She focused particularly on the plight of children and their families.

“The government is trying to do away with the whole race by intentionally killing young kids,” said Mandela. In several
chilling stories, Mandela told of 13-year-olds murdered in front of their parents or taken away, never to be heard of
again. The situation within the black townships destroys family life for most black people within South Africa, said Mandela. The
blacks often work in the city but are required by the white government to live in remote rural areas. This
means mothers must leave their children at home while they live at their employers' and work as domestic servants. Fathers
are also absent much of the time since jobs open for black men only include migrant labor.

The government passed numerous laws prohibiting parents from bringing their children with them into the cities. As a result, many
are left in the homelands with their grandparents. Without parental guidance, they often turn rebellious or drop out of school.
In her social work, Mandela found children who died due to lack of care or malnutrition. “To the government, as
blacks we are to be used as objects and discarded,” Mandela said. “They need cheap labor at the cost of
destroying our families and children.”

Repeated failure to change such racial policies as these has led blacks within South Africa to violence. “Failure carries new
despair and that despair is reflected in the acts of black youth today,” said Mandela. “The South African regime will
not issue reforms of its own volition.” Mandela supported violence as a last resort for change. She detailed the history
of revolt against apartheid and showed that peaceful protest failed to generate reform. Mandela said that if there had been
promising talks in 1985, then there would be little violence today. In addition, she mentioned the brutal government police force
which violently oppresses blacks who try to rebel. “The sword of South Africa is drenched with blood, we must use
organized force to defend ourselves. No country has ever achieved freedom without some kind of violence,” says Mandela.

Through her series of talks, she hopes to educate people about South Africa. Mandela compared apartheid to the horrors of
Nazi Germany and stressed that it was too late for the Jews by the time the Allies moved against Germany.
“While the government may be succeeding in deluding the world that they are getting rid of apartheid, things are actually
getting worse.” She hopes to remove Western blinders and get people to respond to apartheid before it becomes too late.

1988 Olympic team doctor speaks at SGA event

By BRUCE NEWSOME

Angus McBryde, a Davidson graduate and member of the U.S. Olympic medical staff in Seoul, spoke Wednesday in Eu Hall.
McBryde discussed the importance of being involved in the community. He said that you must be active in the community
even if you have to start at the bottom. He started his community activity in 1972 by working as a
Red Cross volunteer at Davidson basketball games at the old Charlotte Coliseum. He would mainly look after people who cut
their finger in the bathroom or had other minor injuries.injuries. After 17 years, however, he is still involved with the
Red Cross. A danger of being involved in the community is overextending yourself. He says that he receives requests daily
for his money and time from various organizations. He must turn down many of these requests since he cannot do
all of them and do any of them well. McBryde recommends being involved outside of your job but to pick
and choose where you devote your time and money.

McBryde himself started at the bottom of the Olympic medical staff. In 1980, he volunteered to work at the U.S.
Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs. From this beginning, he worked his way up by working at Sports Festivals, the
Pan American Games, the World Games, and finally the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. McBryde was given charge
of taking care of the U.S.’s Track and Field team. This kept him busy throughout the Games since each Olympic-level
athlete has some sort of nagging injury. As a result, he had to be at each of the athlete’s events
in case something went wrong. In general, he said that the Koreans were great hosts and the American press gave
the South Koreans an unfair reputation. In fact, it was the American athletes who were out of control and would
not behave during the opening ceremonies. McBryde felt that this behavior was especially out of line in a country where
the citizens generally are so well behaved.

McBryde commented on the steroid situation, and on Ben Johnson in particular. McBryde says that a high percentage of high
school athletes in contact sports are taking steroids today. The only way to stop this dangerous problem is to have
spot unannounced drug testing and to get the NCAA and professional sports united against this problem. McBryde said that Ben
Johnson was obviously using steroids and actually admitted it to the Canadian team doctor when Johnson was informed of his
positive test for anabolic steroids. Johnson now claims he knew nothing about taking the steroids and has claimed since the
controversy began that someone may have sneaked something in a drink he took right before the race began.

SGA SIGN-UPS FOR THE FOLLOWING OFFICES (2-year term)

Sign-up before Monday, February 20, 5:00 p.m. in the Dean of Students’ Office to be eligible. Campaign starts Tuesday, February
21. Election will be held on Tuesday, February 28. Run-offs will be on following days. Mandatory Candidates' Meeting at 5
p.m. on Monday, February 20 in the Union Conference Room. All candidates must attend.

Any questions? Call Holme Oltrogge (-6110) or Mika Na- beshima (-6001).

UNTIL FEBRUARY 20TH AT 5:00 P.M.

# of Positions Elected From Elected By
SGA President 1 Rising Jr. or Sr. Student Body
SGA Vice President 1 Rising Jr. or Sr. Student Body
Honor Council 3 per class Rising So. Jr. Sr. Same Class
Student Conduct Council 2 Rising So. Jr. Sr. Student Body
CCRL Review Board 1 Rising Jr. Student Body

WE’RE LOOKING FOR A FEW

There are several Resident Advisor positions available next year. This is an excellent opportunity for you to serve your fellow
students and to develop skills in leadership, organization, interpersonal relations, crisis intervention, conflict management, programming, and administration. Ask your R.A.
for details. Applications available now in the Residence Life Office; deadline for applications is March 9. Interviews are from March
15-17.
