Monday, February 6, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Bush Administration Takes OFF / 9

Letters

The truth of WDAV

Dear Editor:

I read with some amusement the article in the January 1989 Update concerning the “Tenth Anniversary” of WDAV-FM. According to
my calculations, the station should be celebrating its twentieth anniversary. Since Station Manager John Clark was nowhere to be seen
in the “dungeon” of the Student Union when this station was built, please allow me to correct his statements regarding
the history of WDAV-FM. I was there.

That radio station was built and (to a large extent) paid for by the student body of Davidson College over
a period of ten years prior to October 1978, when the Trustees voted to remove the station from the student
body and incorporate it as an arm of the College’s fundraising efforts. For the first ten years of its existence,
an all-student volunteer staff manned the board, assembled the record library, kept the FCC logs, maintained the equipment, programmed the
jazz, rock, folk, blues, church, and (yes) classical music, and provided the management. The station was entirely funded by the
SGA. The College provided the license, the transmitter, and an “advisor” who, by longstanding tradition, visited the station only once
a year.

WDAV-FM did indeed begin as a “carrier-current” station operating in the basement of Belk dorm in 1969. The signal was
actually carried through the electrical systems of the dorms. However, in 1973, it began broadcasting through a 10-watt FM transmitter
to the town of Davidson and the surrounding community. With the wind at our back, we could reach Statesville on
a good day. We began broadcasting in stereo at the end of the 1975-76 school year. Shortly after this period,
the broadcast studio was moved to the basement of the Student Union. You may tell Mr. Clark that the “three
cramped rooms” of that “dungeon” hold wonderful memories for a lot of Davidson students.

I am reminded of the time, during the height of the controversy over who would control the station, that Tim
Robinson ’79 played “Springtime for Hitler” with a dedication to then-President Sam Spencer. There was always the occasional freshman who
forgot which Frank Zappa cuts were “not for air-play.” The search for extra long-playing tracks for the midnight-to-two shift when
you expected company, long hours “behind the board,” running upstairs to grab a hoagie before the song ended, picking just
the right cut to send a message to someone special, discovering new worlds of music—these are experiences shared by the
student staffs of those years.

Of course, with student control there came student politics: One election for Station Manager was so bitter that the loser—

See WDAV, page 16

Guns

The recent shooting spree which occurred at an elementary school in California has prompted me to protest the availability of
rapid-fire, automatic, military-style weapons. I can think of no reason why such highly destructive weapons should be so readily available
to ordinary citizens. The number of crimes which...has occurred in the past year concerning the slaughter of innocent people by
deranged individuals attests to the fact that the availability of automatic or semi-automatic weapons is both unnecessary and dangerous. While
it is true that we can neither prevent these crimes nor can we realistically ban the sale of all firearms,
it is also true that many lives could have been spared had murderers, such as the ones in Illinois, South
Carolina, and California, only had access to an ordinary handgun. For the safety of our society, the ownership of automatic,
rapid-fire weapons should be confined to those for whom they were designed - the military.

Sincerely,

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
Muadi Mukenge, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

No “F’s?

The following was kindly sent in to us by senior Romy Cawood and we thought we’d pass it along to
you. The clipping she sent appeared in the Dec. 4 Dayton Daily News from the Washington Post wire. Enjoy.

STANFORD, Calif.--During the last two decades, as a flood of applications to Stanford University set records and news magazines began
to call it the best college in America, this sunny, adobe-brick campus kept a secret. Perhaps university officials felt that
strangers would not understand why Stanford, with a faculty full of Nobel laureates and a student body accustomed to academic
challenges, never gives anybody an F. Fill your final English examination with erotic doodles, sleep through every chemistry lab, and
no one, particularly not future employers or graduate schools, will ever hear about it. The failing grade receives no credit,
but even that fact is not entered on the transcript.

Unfortunately, this has led to some abuses, and in turn to an unexpected outbreak of faculty discontent with the whole
idea. Stanford junior Alicia Kerit said that students in real danger of getting even a C or D write a
note in their blue books asking the professor to fail them, so that no grade will appear on their record.
Back in 1969 the Faculty Senate banned both F’s and D’s to lessen the pressures of the difficult courses. The
D was revived in 1975.

Unexpected controversy over the “no-F” rule followed the release of a report by the University Committee on Academic Appraisal and
Achievement. In a survey it asked faculty members whether they still like the ban on F’s. In early November the
committee reported the results: two-thirds of 404 professors responding said the F would be part of their ideal grading system.
The committee, in reporting this to the Faculty Senate, despaired over this surprising reversal. Reviving the F “would unfortunately, and
perhaps dangerously, ‘moralize’ the practice of grading; it would create a ‘scarlet letter’ within the grading system,” the committee report
said.

The Faculty Senate is expected to consider the no-F issue next year.
