14 READ “THE LAST WEEK-END” — By WALTER BOYD Page 2, Cols. 5 and 6 ALENDA Lux uB) > ORTA LIBERTAS April 1989 %&%*& &XTHE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH ANNIVERSARY ISSUE CUNNINGHAM REPORTS TO TRUSTEES Volume XXXIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. MARCH 6, 1946 No. 9 DAVIDSON’S NEXT STEP FORWARD Shown above are drawings of the proposed building program. From left to right, they are: Rev. C. R. Pritchett, D.D., local pastor; College President John R. Cunningham; and Athletic Director Norman W. Shepard. Phi Society Is Revived Oldest Literary Organization Elects Officers, Extends Bids Davidson's oldest literary organization, The Philanthropic Literary Society, held its first meeting in two years on Thursday, February 21. The purpose of the meeting was the reorganization of the society, which has been inactive for the past two years, and the election of officers for the coming semester. Lamar Williamson, one of the returning members, was in charge of the group. In the election of officers, Charles McKee was chosen President; Lamar Williamson, Vice President; Joe Stukes, Treasurer; Gene Linton, Secretary; and George Gunn, Fraternity Council Representative. A committee was also appointed for the selection of new members, and bids will be extended this week. The society was founded in June 1837, and the first official meeting was called for June 22 of that year. At this time the constitution was adopted, and plans were drawn up for a debate at the following meeting. The subject for debate was: “Is slavery a curse or a blessing to the United States?” Present members of the society include: Jim Alexander, Ed Golden, Joe Stukes, George Gunn, Mel Winstead, J. P. Whitly, Gene Linton, Bob Freeman, Lamar Williamson, Dick McCloy, Jerry Robinson, William Flanigan, Newton Spencer, and Charles McKee. Band Tour To Salisbury First Off Campus Concert Of Year For Band Under the direction of James Christian Pfohl, the Davidson College Concert Band appeared in a concert at Boyden High School, Salisbury at 8:00 P. M., March 1. Arranged for the members of the All State North Carolina High School Band and their directors, the program included a number of compositions which these bands will play in the coming state high school contest to be held at Greensboro in April. The Davidson Band will be making its first off campus appearance of the year, according to Mr. Pfohl. An extended concert tour is planned to be made later in the spring season. IRC Organizes For Semester McAlister Heads Reorganized International Relations Club Under the sponsorship of Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, the International Relations Club is being revived this semester, and approximately twenty-five students have manifested interest in the organization by attending its first two post-war meetings. McAlister President A meeting was held on Tuesday, February 26, for the purpose of reorganizing the club, electing officers, and laying plans for the semester's activities. At that time Johnny McAlister was elected president, Leigh McKeithen vice-president and program chairman, and C. W. Scott secretary. It was decided that the club would meet on Tuesday, March 5, for its first program, and that meetings would be held twice a month thereafter. Discuss UNO Charter The topic under discussion last Tuesday was the United Nations Charter. Dr. Johnston prefaced the open discussion with a talk on this subject, with the view in mind of better acquainting those who had not read the charter in its entirety with its contents. The purpose of the International Relations Club is to give students who are interested in current world affairs an opportunity to share each other's views and to keep informed on international events. The general plan of meetings is to have a designated leader discuss the chosen topic for twenty or thirty minutes, and then to throw the floor open to general discussion of the subject at hand. Members of the club are looking forward to a very successful and profitable semester, since there are so many matters of great international importance taking place at this time. They hope to discuss in the future such matters as the Bretton Woods Agreement, Russo-British differences in Indonesia and Greece, and the UNO meetings in London. Membership Open This organization was formerly operated under the bidding system, but membership in it is now open to all men who are interested. It is believed that this method will enable the club to return more quickly to its normal size, and at the same time it will guarantee the organization a group of men who are actively interested in current affairs. Campus Soon To See New Gym And Church Rifle Team Wins Honors It has been announced by Fourth Service Command Headquarters in Atlanta that Davidson's fast-developing rifle team, coached by veteran T/Sgt. B. R. Burton of the college ROTC, captured fourth place honors in a field of sixteen clubs competing for the annual Hearst Trophy award. Davidson's five top men, all freshmen, plugged out a score of 836, trailing only N. C. State's 900 and Georgia Tech's two team scores of 871 and 848, while the Citadel and Clemson came in for a close fifth and sixth with 828 and 825. Taking high score honors for the Wildcats aggregation was Sam D. McDaniel of Atlanta with 178 points, only 8 below the highest individual score of the entire competition. Following McDaniel were Charles M. Coffey of North Wilkesboro with 175, Flynn V. Long of Austin, Texas with 168, Walter P. Walker of Collierville, Tenn. with 158, and P. P. Deaton of Statesville with 157. Sgt. Burton, whose prowess as a rifle coach is a byword at Davidson, was reasonably pleased with the showing of his young team, and states that the material now available should develop into a first-class club by next season. According to Lt. Col. Howard B. Arbuckle, formerly of Charlotte now Commandant of the ROTC, negotiations are under way for shoulder-to-shoulder matches this spring with both Georgia Tech and N. C. State. Recognized as a varsity team by the campus athletic association in 1942, the Wildcat sharpshooters fired a near-perfect season, defeating Clemson, Wofford, N. C. State, and the Naval ROTC’s at both U.N.C. and U.S.C. and losing only to The Citadel. During the next year, the last season before the war closed out varsity competition, Davidson went on to win the Hearst Trophy hands down. Plans For Gym Are Complete; Architect Sought For Church President John R. Cunningham reported to the Board of Trustees on February 20, that though uncertainties in the fields of labor and materials make the exact date indeterminate, erection of the new gymnasium and church at Davidson College will begin as soon as conditions permit. Dr. Cunningham explained that final plans for the gymnasium were in the hands of the contractor for the study of the possibility of securing materials, and that the college was now considering several outstanding men in the colonial architecture field in connection with the church building. The gymnasium will face Richardson Field from the North end with the swimming pool on the east side and the varsity tennis courts just to the rear of the main building. Designed by H. R. Weeks, the architect who designed the Woolen Gymnasium at the University of North Carolina, the Davidson gym will include a main floor which can be converted into three practice basketball courts, accordion type bleachers, an auxiliary gymnasium, a 75 foot pool, and other features which will make it one of the most modern and best equipped buildings of its type in the South. There seem to be two schools of thought on the location of the church. One of these is to place the building on the south corner of the front campus facing north and restoring the old original quadrangle. Another idea is that if the church is placed on the front of the campus, it will obstruct the view of the Chambers Building and should therefore have some other location. At any rate, the location of the church has not yet been determined. Funds for the new gym and college church were appropriated last year by the college officials. Everyone is looking forward to the large swimming pool which will be located in the basement of the gym. This will certainly complete one of the greatest needs of the campus ever since it opened its doors to students. The gym will carry a number of regular size basketball courts and volleyball courts. The new church is another needed structure for the campus and its construction will add greatly to the beauty of the campus. (Continued on Page 3) Final Concert Of Year Heard Miss Sari Biro, Pianist, GivesExcellent Performance
By Charles Hadley

Last week many students heard the noted pianist, Miss Sari Biro. Miss Biro was also heard last season when she gave the final concert in Chapel, where she performed a rendition of a number of scenes from “Pictures At An Exhibition.” Her performance Monday night was attended by a large number of musically interested people from all sections of the state around Davidson.

Following the chapel exercise, I was very fortunate in seeing Miss Biro for a few minutes at the "Y". I had been waiting at the “Y” for only a few minutes to interview Miss Biro when she came walking in so softly that I didn’t even see her. I introduced myself to her, and before I could state my business, she had led me over to the piano thinking that I had come to play for her. “Now,” she said, “play anything you like.” “But Miss Biro,” I said, “I've only come to interview you for our school paper.” She apologized quickly, and we began talking.

Her quiet, demure manner caught my attention from the start, and I found that she wasn't at all hard to talk to — in fact, she seemed bubbling over with things she wanted to tell someone. Miss Biro told me that Davidson is the first boys' college exclusively that she has ever performed before, and that it is truly one of the most beautiful ones that she has ever seen. “I wonder if the boys realize what a wonderful opportunity it is to have a place of education like this,” she said. “I don't suppose they will appreciate it fully until they get a little older.”

Miss Biro told me that she thinks our auditorium is superb, and that our library is very, very striking. “I think it is even better than the Library of Congress,” she said. “I wish that I could just sit down in there and spend the day reading and reading.” I laughed a little strangely, thinking of the hours I've spent in there reading and reading.

I found that Miss Biro has studied music for about twelve or thirteen years in all. She has traveled all over Europe and the U.S. with her concerts. “Music is my religion,” she said in her quiet manner. “A person who really loves and appreciates good music cannot be bad. And one doesn’t have to be a concert artist to really take part in it and enjoy it. I do not do it only for making money, but for enjoyment.”

Miss Biro told me that she is Hungarian-born, but added quickly and proudly that now she is an American citizen. She said that it took her three trying weeks to get her citizenship papers. She said that she doesn't think that Americans realize how fortunate they are to be Americans because they have never known anything else but their kind of life. I asked Miss Biro which she likes better, Europe or the United States. Quietly and earnestly she said, “You are an American by birth; I am an American by choice.”

Sigma Epsilon Reorganizes
By Howell Morrow

Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity composed of faculty members and students, met Friday night, March 1, at the Phi Gam house for the initiation of new members. This organization has been inactive since May, 1943, but with the return of two student members and the presence of a number of faculty members, it has been reorganized. The following men have been extended bids of membership: Mel Winstead, Lamar Williamson, Paul Young, Bill Campbell, and Middleton Raynal. Jimmy Jackson and Doug Swink were offered membership before the war, but were never initiated.

The following members of the faculty are members of Sigma Upsilon: Prof. E. J. Erwin, Dr. J. B. Gallant, Dr. A. V. Goldiere, Dr. Frontis Johnston, Prof. H. T. Lilly, Mr. J. L. Payne, and Mr. Sam Spencer. At the first meeting of the year held Tuesday night, February 19, Peck Hill of the Senior Class was elected president of the fraternity, while Howell Morrow was elected Secretary and Treasurer. This organization recognizes outstanding ability and originality in writing and is made up of members of the upper classes. This is a national fraternity and the Davidson unit is designated as the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon.

Cunningham States Growth And Plans Of College To Trustees
New Trustees Elected And Building Program Discussed

The board of Trustees of Davidson College last February 20 adopted a new scale of faculty salaries, representing substantial increases; chose three new trustees and heard a report from President John R. Cunningham showing advances made.

President Cunningham reported that the faculty is now composed of 32 members and indicated that some of these have recently returned to the college following leaves of absence from the armed services or teaching terms in other educational institutions. Upon recommendation of the faculty and the executive committee of the Trustees, which met at the college yesterday, Dr. George L. Abernethy of the University of South Dakota, Vermilion, was elected professor of philosophy for a period of three years, beginning July 1, 1946.

New Trustees
The following new trustees recently elected to membership were recognized: Frank Hall, hosiery manufacturer, Belmont; Rev. John A. McKinnon, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Concord; and L. W. Steward, president of Commercial National Bank, Charlotte. These additions to the board represent, respectively, Kings Mountain Presbytery, Concord Presbytery, and Mecklenburg Presbytery.

On the subject of finances, President Cunningham stated that “we are now able to foresee that we will close this fiscal year in much better financial condition than we had anticipated. Because of reduction in expenditures and with increases in tuition income during the second semester, we should be able to close the year with a satisfactory balance.”

The president reported that since 1940 the assets of the college have been increased $1,801,505 in the following manner: increase in endowment, $163,189; increase in trust funds, $220,000; increase from bequests, $625,000; and increase to plant funds, $793,360. “Included in the total figure submitted are the following special contributions during the past year,” he continued: “Anonymous gift for endowment, $50,000; from Mrs. Fraser Hood (the Fraser Hood scholarship), $5,000; from Mrs. Robert E. Abell, Jr. (the Abell Memorial scholarship), $5,000; from Mrs. William A. Watt (Memorial of Howard M. Hanna), $1,000; and to complete a $3,000 scholarship in memory of Judge J. T. West, $2,300.”

Following the president's recommendation, the board adopted a new scale of faculty salaries representing substantial increases. The maximum for assistant professor was changed from $2,400 per year to $2,750. The scale for an associate professor was increased from present levels of from $2,400 to $3,000 to a new range of from $3,000 to $3,750. Full professors whose former compensation has been from $3,200 to $4,000 will in the future be paid within a scale of from $3,500 to $5,000.

Gymnasium Plans
President Cunningham reported that plans for the erection of a new gymnasium have been completed and are now in the hands of the contractor. Building will begin, he indicated, just as soon as labor and materials are available. Funds for the new church were reported as having been fully subscribed and it is expected that plans for the erection of this edifice will proceed subject to the same conditions as those stated with reference to the gymnasium. “The housing of students... (Continued on Page 4)

Library News
“DARKLY THE RIVER FLOWS” By John Macdonald

A $1000 prize novel, “Darkly the River Flows” is a powerful, dramatic novel of character conflict. It is the story of three young men in an influential Toronto family, which had amassed considerable wealth through the mining industry in Ontario; the novel is perhaps a new departure for Canadian novelists because it is psychological in essence, gaining its strength and value from the understanding and delineation of character rather than basing its appeal on scene and background.

“THE BAYOUS OF LOUISIANA” By Harnett T. Kane

Author of “Louisiana Hayride” South Louisiana of the Bayous, its rich earth honeycombed by an intricate network of waterways, looks now just as much of America must have looked thousands of years ago.

“OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET” By C. S. Lewis

In this book the distinguished author of “The Screwtape Letters” turns his brilliant and versatile talent to telling a story for “those who like books about other planets.” (Those who do not, are invited to read it—and then ask themselves if the theme could have been embodied in any other way.) Whosoever does accompany Ransom through the unknown onto the weird planet Malacandra, will revel in the voyage and the strange beauty and horror which await him.