Features The Davidsonian - Monday, January 23, 1989

AIDS activist warns of dangers to students
By NUSRAT KHAN

Richard Keeling, chairman of the American College AIDS Task Force Committee, addressed the controversial and frightening issue before the Davidson community on Tuesday. Keeling believes that AIDS is being transmitted equally among heterosexuals and homosexuals, but in the past few years, he has noticed a different trend.

“There is evidence to suggest that the transmittance of the disease has dropped in the general gay community,” he said. “It appears that unmarried, non-drug-using youth are at a greater risk than others in the present society.” This population has been targeted for AIDS education in the United States.

Keeling focuses on certain high-risk groups on college campuses in his work. “At the University of Virginia, we have given special attention to gay students and first-year students. We have also paid extra attention to sex and sexuality issues on campus.”

In trying to help the students to better understand the implications of this disease and to induce prevention measures, Keeling said that self-esteem and power are key terms. “Students must realize that none of their aspirations of the world can be fulfilled once they get this disease. Therefore, it is important that they develop greater self-esteem and the courage and power to abstain from behavior that can shorten their lives,” Keeling said.

Keeling was concerned about students’ ideas that Davidson is a small, safe, protective campus community where they have little chance of contracting AIDS. “The size of the school does not in any way determine the risk of the disease on campus. Schools smaller in attendance size than Davidson have had a number of cases of the disease.” He believes that such an argument is a “poor rationalization for those unwilling to face the facts.”

Keeling said that condom machines are necessary on campus because some students are embarrassed to buy condoms at stores. When asked if such a ready availability of condoms might lead to an increase in sexual activity, Keeling said, “Condoms in no way support immoral behavior—they do not force students or anyone else to have sex.” One student commented that the availability of condoms might make it increasingly difficult for young ladies to say ‘no.’ Keeling replied, “I would regard that as unproven speculation. A strong sense of judgment is fundamental to protection, not trying to use external excuses. When the issue is prevention, men and women should be ready to accept attitudinal responsibility.”

When asked about the form of language that an educational program must use so as to cater to the parents or to more conservative student conceptions, Keeling made it clear that the parents should be informed in advance of the college’s AIDS program and policy. “It should make its intentions very clear, and at the same time prove its unwillingness to subdue its efforts in any way under any kind of pressure—parental, student, or from conservative trustees,” Keeling said.not controversial but instead moderate and mild, it might as well be scratched off the plans, for such programs and proposals are useless. The key is a proactive relationship between the college, parents, and the students. No one should be caught off guard. “Students should realize that one doesn’t wear a seatbelt because he knows he will have an accident. Keeling said, “The college cannot withhold such information from a roommate. It is totally unethical and wrong. Perhaps even the state might forbid it. There is evidence to suggest that the transmittance of the disease has dropped in the general gay community,” Keeling says. “If they are too valuable to die, they will talk to the student taking a self-inflicted risk like this with such an attitude is asking for it.” Safe sex must be practiced at all times, for one single encounter could be a “wreck of life and sexual activity.” Every student has aspirations for success and a career, Keeling said. Each one of us lives with some hope and ambition from year to year if not from day to day. We wish to be attractive, sought after, and popular. But, as Keeling put it, “AIDS will interfere with all these hopes and destroy them.” So it is a choice of either being prepared now or suffering later. “Only a person with a self-defeating attitude towards life, whose life doesn’t matter to him, and ask him to inform his roommate on an ethical basis and then leave it up to that individual, then they might be right.” Keeling stated firmly his belief that any student who knows he is afflicted with the disease has an ethical and moral responsibility to inform his roommate(s) and other individuals associated with him of his disease. “Failure to do so may lead to disturbed relationships which could prove worse [for the student] at a time like this,” he said. Keeling said that AIDS counseling should be available as it can fulfill “the one-to-one critical need of any student on campus. The alcohol policy committee (a wis ign 2a sa) ae Don Kimmel, professor of biology. Should Davidson have condom machines? “Yes, they should be on campus.” What about AIDS education on campus? “Education is important. So many of our students still answer ‘yes’ to the question that mosquitos can transmit the virus.” [12.3% of the 389 Davidson students who participated in a survey last year said, incorrectly, that mosquito bites transmit the AIDS virus.] is justified to pursue any form of unsafe sexual activity.” Keeling’s emphasis is therefore on “self-esteem development and adherence to safer sexual practices.” Addressing the Davidson College AIDS policy of not informing roommates of the other’s condition, Keeling said, “Students can best educate students; peer education is the best form of education on such a topic. Students are more open and direct with peers.” from the Netherlands and Francis Brunet.