Features The Davidsonian Thursday, January 26, 1989

Stories of desperation and hope

Awareness Weekend takes students into the city

By LISA GERRARD

The Salvation Army soup kitchen reeked of the night’s supper of sauerkraut and wieners, a meal most college students would
easily refuse, but among the 180 or so cold and hungry men who somberly awaited turns to eat, the only
complaint was that they could have but one serving. More than one returned to the steady drizzle on the street
muttering, “I’m still hungry.”

Through Charlotte soup kitchens and shelters, a group of 26 Davidson students, participants in “Awareness Weekend,” caught glimpses of life
in the inner city January 13-15. An annual event sponsored by the Chaplain Committee, Awareness Weekend gives students of primarily
middle and upper-class backgrounds the opportunity to do volunteer service and interact with people from the lower and lowest rungs
of the socio-economic ladder.

Students stayed at Christ King Center, a church located in the middle of an incomplete Habitat for Humanity neighborhood in
one of the most distressing sections of Charlotte. The Davidson group found sharp contrast there between the desperation of luck
gone bad and the hope for renewal at the heart of the city. Dilapidated dwellings with sagging front porches and
windows boarded up against the cold stood side by side with the already renovated, picture-book accomplishments of caring Habitat builders.

Students spent Saturday performing tasks like stuffing envelopes in the Habitat for Humanity office, re-packaging creamed corn at the Metrolina
Food Bank, and painting offices in two churches located downtown, as well as visiting soup kitchens and shelters. Within the
various work assignments, they encountered people who shared with them a city different from the one students know through their
brief excursions off-campus.

For the homeless and poor, Charlotte has little to do with freeways, shopping malls, nice restaurants, and skyscraping office buildings.
Often a world of hardship and struggle, their city is a place where any money a man might make is
likely to disappear from his pockets while he sleeps, where women wonder day by day how to help their children
build a better life than they have known.

“It really made me think about people who don’t have money to put food on the table,” said sophomore Jacquie
Bussie, who had never worked in a soup kitchen before. “That’s something I never really had to come face to
face with before—things like not being able to get a job.” Bussie said that the people at the Salvation Army
seemed as fully human to her as others more fortunate. “I was thinking all the time I was there that
I was no different from them. I feel really sheltered here (at Davidson) sometimes. One thing about Awareness Weekend is
that it made me think I have so many blessings and I did nothing to deserve them.”

Sophomore Tyndall Davis and three other volunteers visited a Salvation Army shelter for women. In a smoke-filled lounge, the students
listened as two mothers talked about plans for educating their toddlers. According to Davis, one said that she had worked
“extensively” with her baby and that he was very “advanced” for his age. The other spoke of a certain “educational
toy” by Fisher Price and a telescope that she planned to get for her three children as soon as she
could. “They seemed so normal and like they had it all together; it really made me wonder how they got
there. It seemed like they could be part of the mainstream so easily,” Davis said. “It makes me a lot
more sympathetic to people in that situation, that sometimes maybe it’s not so much their fault, but that they’ve fallen
through the cracks somehow.”

Sophomore Laurie Reams also visited the women’s shelter. She said, “I was impressed by how much it meant to the
women in there for you to take time out to speak to them. At first, there was a hesitancy to
let down their pride, but once they saw that we were sincere, talking to them seemed to give them a
better self-image. Being able to talk about their kids renewed their faith that they were good mothers and that they...“had
a meaningful role.” When senior Tim Poston, who organized the weekend, visited an uptown day shelter, a group of men
told him that the center was not doing its job. When “somebody important,” like Mayor Sue Myrick or philanthropist George
Shinn, comes for lunch, the shelter serves good, complete meals, said the men. Otherwise, they hardly ever have anything but
coffee and doughnuts. The men desperately wanted something to be done about the situation. When one particularly vocal member of
the group realized that Poston was only a student, rather than a reporter from the Charlotte Observer, he threw up
his hands. Poston encouraged the man to keep talking because one day the “student” might be in a better position
to help. Slowly walking away and looking Poston straight in the eye, the man replied, “Yeah, and by that time
I’ll be dead.”

The Salvation Army provides temporary living space above the soup kitchen for men with jobs. While successive crowds came in
for sauerkraut and wieners, several residents remained downstairs to joke with the students, tell stories, and share family pictures. In
these men, students perceived a beat of hope at the heart of the city. One man spoke of his plans
to go back home to his wife in Florida after working.

See AWARENESS, page 8

However, chose: way. vee fiothee people who wished to.

Freshman Will Montgomery likened the gathering to “an army of nonviolence.” He said that there were all types of people
with the common purpose of “keeping the dream alive.” Sophomore Molly Rice felt that the main focus of the event
was “The students traveled to Atlanta and rallied along with thousands of people with the common purpose of keeping the
dream alive.”

“There were some associated with marching. It made me wonder what it was like in the '60s when King marched
in Atlanta. I gained a deep respect for the civil rights movement.” The event was enthusiastic and emotional, the students
said. Graver and Montgomery both told of strangers walking along hand in hand, chanting “Up with” at the Martin Luther
King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change.

After the march, there was a visit to King’s grave. King’s widow, Coretta Scott King, and his son and daughter
all spoke. All three expressed the desire to not only preserve King’s message but to spread it to more people.
Both Montgomery and Graver commented on the lack of white participation in the event. Graver kept asking herself,

See KING, page 4

JYA Journals
Tales of England
By JERRILYN WOODARD

Study abroad was one of the best things I’ve ever done in my life and I recommend it to everyone.
Each person’s experience in another country is unique. I hope I have expressed many facets of my experience through these
excerpts from the daily journal I kept during my four-month stay in England.

September before my program began. I was still traveling, taking a weekend trip from London to the small, rural town
of Oldendorf, West Germany, to visit my Davidson roommate, Sarah Powell.

3 A.M. Again. But this time I’m not studying. I’m talking to another Brit, trying to convince him that Reagan
is not completely senile and that the news clip cited on Radio 1 from the U.S. National Enquirer is not
a valid news story. Perhaps I’m telling some English lad or lass that the fact that American movies and television
programs show people conversing on the phone for hours is not proof that all Americans are rich because local phone
calls in the States are free. It’s entirely possible that I am not talking at all, but instead am listening
to some British bloke (yes, they really do say that as much as Andy Capp does) as he explains to
me why a girl would never ask a guy to dance at a “bop” or nightclub in England. Or why
at every dinner or tea (lunch or supper) there are two types of potatoes offered, even if the main dish
is pasta! Or I might be sitting in a Wendy’s restaurant in the Frankfurt rail station in West Germany with
another American student.

See TALES, page 4
