I failed my driver's test three times. The first time, I drove really well even though I'd never driven during the daytime before. I told the policeman that I only drove at night. You usually don’t have to bother with yield signs at night. He seemed to think it was a flagrant error to disregard a yield sign, though. That was the only thing I did wrong. I was so angry that he wouldn't give me my license after that. The second time, I felt jittery. My friend Beebee told me not to worry. She said everybody failed once, but hardly anybody ever failed twice. I did. That time I was trying to be extra careful, but I got confused. I drove up to a green light, stopped, waited until it turned red, and drove on through. As soon as we turned the corner, the policeman asked me to pull over. He made me take the passenger seat while he drove me back to the highway department. I screamed all the way there. The policeman said I was immature. Having failed the test twice made me worry more. I practiced driving for two months. And when I went to take the test for the third time, I borrowed my grandmother's car, which was significantly smaller than either of my parents’. That time I hit a station wagon as I backed out of the parking space. Those were bad days. My step-father hated me. He was in the mafia. He held a gun to my head and told me if I failed the test again he'd kill me. I wondered why he cared. My step-father came home late at night. He owned this nightclub called “Socks.” People died there all the time. My step-father had to stay late and hide the bodies. He’d come into my room after he got home and jerk me out of bed. He’d make me drive him around while he tinkled the ice in his George Dickel and smoked. He said the practice would do me good. I wasn’t allowed to listen to the radio. One night when we were driving, he made me stop at Maurice’s house. Maurice was a little younger than my father. He told me his wife went crazy, and he had locked her away in a mental institution. My step-father snickered. Maurice gave me a little pink capsule. I thought I was supposed to eat it, but my step-father told me to snort it. He broke the capsule in half and dumped the white powder onto a coffee table. Then he lined it with a credit card. In the meantime, Maurice rolled up a one-hundred dollar bill until it was as thin as a straw. He sniffed the first line but made me snort the rest. My step-father said it would help me drive better. Those were bad nights. Maurice gave me driving lessons. It was my step-father’s idea. Maurice made me drive to this green motel with peeling paint. He said he had someone he wanted me to meet. I didn’t believe him. I thought we were going to buy drugs. Drugs scared me. The curtains were already closed when we got to the room. They were orange. I heard the Wonder Woman music on the television. Maurice didn’t knock. He opened the door and pulled me inside. He’d been holding me by the arm all the time--even in the car. Angie was watching Wonder Woman and drinking a beer. She wasn’t as old as Maurice. She had silver hair and blue eyes. She had on eyeshadow in three colors. I stared at her clothes for too long, and Maurice pinched me hard. She wore a short black skirt with fishnet hose and a half t-shirt with a rose decal across the boobs. She had on high-heels too. Maurice said, “Angie, I’d like for you to meet Melanie.” I thought I was supposed to shake her hand, but she touched my face instead. She touched my face and said, “Purdy.” My mother thought it was stupid that my step-father wouldn't let me take the driver's test again. Her lover thought it was stupid too. My step-father hit my mother’s lover over the head with the fireplace poker. We thought he was dead, but he drove home. My mother cried because my step-father had Maurice, but she had...No one. I listened to them argue and studied my road maps. They never test you on road maps. They really should. Maurice promised me that if I passed my driver’s test, he’d give me a surprise. I passed. He grinned hard and told me to drive to the green motel. I thought he was going to give me some drugs—even though we didn’t buy drugs there the time before. I told him I'd rather go home, but he squeezed my arm. I knew he had a gun because he was twirling it around his finger. Angie was watching a talk show on TV, but Wonder Woman came on after we’d been there a while. Angie kissed me on the mouth. Maurice made me take my clothes off and lie down with Angie. I wanted to keep my socks on, but he said no. Angie stuck her tongue in my belly button, and I got chills, maybe from the air conditioner. She had long fingernails. But she didn’t scratch me the way Maurice did. Before we left, Angie let the baby out of the closet. The baby wasn’t allowed to watch Wonder Woman. He was five or six years old, but he still crawled. Angie fixed the baby a pickle and asked me to change his diaper. But I said no because Maurice was twirling his gun again. Angie said, “Tell Melanie goodbye, baby.” But the baby got confused. He crawled over to Maurice and touched his cheek and gurgled. Maurice poured the baby a pickle and spun “Puddy.”

My stepfather bought Maurice a ring. Maurice slipped the ring onto his penis, and it got stuck there. Maurice didn't go to the doctor for a couple of days because he was embarrassed. Finally, he got so sick I had to drive him to the hospital. He had an operation, and they cut it off. My stepfather came home from “Socks” late one night and made me take him for a drive. We went to the hospital to visit Maurice. My stepfather took back his ring. Maurice wept and adjusted his hearing aid. My stepfather broke open three laxatives and dumped the white powder into Maurice’s IV bag. On the way home, my stepfather told me to drive by “Socks.” We went inside, and I saw a woman scrubbing the pink off a wall. She was almost finished. She asked my stepfather for a ride home. He said, “Certainly.” She asked my stepfather if she could bottle up the red water in the bucket and take it home to her baby. He said, “Of course.” I played the radio really loudly.

I got pulled over by the cops three times that year. That first time, a policeman saw me driving at night without my headlights. That was the night we carried the maid home from “Socks.” My stepfather made me turn off the lights. He wanted to listen to the maid cry. The next time I was speeding. My stepfather was speeding too. When the policeman poked his head inside the window, my stepfather shoved a one-hundred-dollar bill up his nose. When he jerked his head back, we drove away. The last time, I got pulled for disregarding two stop signs. We were in a hurry. Someone had called from “Socks” and told my stepfather that Maurice was there. My stepfather carried the fire-poker. I carried a road map. So I disregarded the two stop signs, and a policeman pulled me over. He looked at my driver's license and said, “Melanie, if you drive like hell, you'll get there faster.” My stepfather looked annoyed. I told the policeman that I had a three-month-old baby at home waiting to be breast-fed. The policeman said, “Well, we can't keep the baby waiting.” My stepfather jabbed me in the boobs with the fire-poker. I drove on to “Socks.” I waited in the parking lot with Angie’s baby. The baby was thirsty, but I knew he liked George Dickle and not blood. I took off his diaper and replaced it with my road map.

My stepfather buried Maurice and Angie. In the car on the way home, he cried because I had Angie’s baby, and he had no one. Then the baby touched my stepfather’s cheek and said, “Puddy.” My stepfather grinned, spinning him around like a globe.

—Sheri Reynolds, ‘89