sports

By CARTER PAYNE

Hallelujah! The 1989 Wildcat football team finally got what had eluded them for nearly two years—a victory. Saturday’s performance was not just a win, but a decisive 15-0 shutout.

As the final seconds of the fourth quarter ticked away and it became apparent that the Wildcats would pull off the win, the Davidson crowd (which actually stayed for the whole game) rose to its feet and voiced its satisfaction. It had been a while since they could do that, especially on opening day! The last time Davidson won a football game was in 1987. The last opening day win was in the 1980 season.

Junior Bryn Robinson, #27, breaks two tackles in Davidson’s 15-0 victory against Millsaps last Saturday.

At the beginning of the first quarter, the Davidson defense firmly established itself by foiling nearly every Millsaps attempt at advancing the ball. The defense, led by linebackers Harry Schiavi, Bret Hammet, and Eric Moledor, and lineman Kenny Nazemetz, would go on to harass the Majors for most of the day. The Wildcat defense allowed Millsaps only 190 total offensive yards.

After their first offensive series, Millsaps was forced to punt. Ralph Isernia received the ball on the Davidson 30 and returned it 30 yards to the Millsaps 40. That runback helped set the tone for the Wildcat’s offense. Quarterbacks Matt Matheny and Mark Wainright worked in tandem to methodically direct the offense during the first half. Unfortunately, on several well-constructed drives, costly penalties kept the ball out of the end zone.

Freshman kicker Jamie Brown put the Wildcats on the board late in the first quarter with a 33-yard field goal. This first score was welcomed by a shower of cheers and marshmallows from the Davidson fans. Brown went on to boot a 44-yarder in the second quarter and a 35-yarder later in the fourth quarter to ice the victory.

Saturday also marked the debut of the “twelfth-man” kickoff team. This unit is made up of a large number of walk-ons who defend on kickoffs. Sophomore Jebo Barnes, a football letterman, described the idea as one that many big universities have used.

The platoon of walk-on players helps keep the offensive and defensive players from getting too tired on kickoffs. The unit should be in full force next Saturday.

After taking a 6-0 lead into the locker room, the Wildcats came out storming. The defense continued to blitz and pulverize the Millsaps backfield throughout the second half.

The defensive attitude of the Wildcats was evident in a fourth-quarter series in which Davidson was penalized for roughing the passer. The next play saw the quarterback once again leveled, this time while holding the ball.

Midway through the third quarter, behind the powerful running of tailback Bryn Robinson, who averaged 5 yards a carry on the day, the Wildcats engineered a 96-yard drive. The drive was capped by a 20-yard touchdown strike from Wainright to Isernia. The score stood at 12-0 after a failed two-point conversion.

The Davidson offensive line turned in a stellar performance, clearly dominating in the trenches and leading the Wildcat runners to a 215-yard rushing performance.

The only downside of the game was the 105 yards that Davidson was penalized during the day. This kept them from scoring touchdowns on three or four occasions.

However, Coach Vic Gatto did not seem too worried. In The Charlotte Observer, he cited first-game jitters as the cause for most of the yellow flags.

As the players headed for the locker room, they were greeted by the unfamiliar sight of fans in the stands after the game.

The crowd found it hard to let go of the strange sensation of victory. They let the Wildcats know just how much they liked it with a standing ovation that lasted until the last player had disappeared into the tunnel.

Players and fans are looking forward to more of the same throughout the season. Go Wildcats!

Sports shorts

Soccer loses more than games on road trip

The Davidson soccer team lost both games on a road trip in northern Virginia last weekend. The team dropped decisions to William and Mary by 2-1 and to Old Dominion by 3-2 in overtime.

The largest loss of the trip, however, turned out to be the loss of starting striker Jim Walker. Walker had burned William and Mary’s sweeper for a breakaway when he was taken out by a tackle. The impact did major damage to his left knee. He underwent reconstructive surgery on Sunday and will miss the remainder of the season.

Women’s soccer starts first season on the road

The Wildcat women’s soccer program began its inaugural season with losses to Erskine and Mercer. Erskine defeated the Lady Wildcats 6-1. The team later fell to Mercer 3-1. Davidson will play its first home game Wednesday against Presbyterian.

Volleyball goes 1-3

The volleyball team dropped three of its four games in a busy week of action. High Point College defeated the Wildcats 3-2 in a hard-fought 14-16, 15-7, 4-15, 15-13, 11-15 battle (Davidson scores appear first). The team then followed up with a three-game steamrolling of Augusta College 15-9, 15-8, 15-8. Later that night, Virginia Tech proved its mettle in a three-game match with scores of 3-15, 4-15, and 8-15. The Wildcats faced UNC-G on Saturday and lost in a four-game struggle 10-15, 15-11, 5-15, 6-15.