Commentaries The Davidsonian Wednesday, December 6, 1989

“Suicide is the ultimate attempt to be in control of one’s destiny,” says college psychologist - Amelia Dockery with Tripp Helms

The death of David Blalock frustrates us because we try so hard and so futilely to apply reason to something that is completely irrational and in many ways impossible to understand. We are asking so many questions for which there are so few real answers. Nevertheless, it may be of some help to look at the roots of suicidal behavior and some characteristics of suicidal people.

Suicide is the ultimate attempt to be in control of one’s destiny. Depression, feeling deprived of autonomy, of a sense of wholeness and of a freedom to make significant decisions about one’s life—these are the factors that probably play the most important role in a person’s decision to commit suicide. But, with suicide comes a time of obliteration of consciousness. It is a compelling force, nagging, omnipotent, undermining one’s rationale. It breaks into consciousness.

The lasting, unbearable question among us, the survivors, is always: what could I have done to prevent it? The honest answer is: nothing. Unless you are a skilled professional used to identifying denial, there is no way you can positively identify a suicidal person. The real suicidal person lives in such fear of his or her death impulses that his or her only survival technique is denial. This explains our surprise and frustration over someone’s death by suicide. Obviously, this excludes suicide attempts or threats, that to the contrary are calls for help. If any of these attempts succeed, then we can be wondering: why did we not hear the call?

But, people who live life in quiet despair, frequently offering help to or counseling others, never talking about their own depression—these people are at high risk of committing suicide. There is no way to know it unless a skilled professional intersects their lives. They will certainly not reach out for help. It is like a compulsion for them. They see it as their fate—one day, one day.... Life goes on tracing the route leading to that day, that moment when everything seems to be in order and fate can take place. In the mind of the suicidal person, there is no escaping that fate.

We know that depression can be treated and that suicidal patients can find an uplifting way of healing the hurt and pain in their lives. Medicine and psychotherapy are available ways of treating depression and its terrible consequences.

College-age students are particularly at risk of suicide because of the massive reevaluation of essential values that takes place during that time of life. All of a sudden students are empowered to make decisions for themselves in ways that they have never been able to before. There is fear of failure and disappointment and the fear of being inadequate to the task. Our competitive society places so much pressure on us to succeed in very limited socially acceptable ways. Healthy resolution of the questions of this time of life occurs when we can learn to be humble and accept our limitations and at the same time recognize our own individual strengths. We each can have a special, significant place in the world that does not have to be the same as everybody else’s. The competitive values our world tries to impose upon us are indeed without value. There is no real competition, and no real race to win. There is only the path to wholeness which is different and special for each of us.

Researchers have studied populations in college settings, and they have found that the bright, academically driven students like those at Davidson and other schools are very susceptible to chemical imbalances. It is the classic manic depressive picture, with wide and very dangerous mood swings. These are something to watch for in a person. Again, only a professional can truly determine whether there is a problem or not, and what kind of problem there is.

The question remains: how do we prevent suicide? Professional intervention in the life of any possibly depressed person is crucial. We perceive depression like we perceive love—intuitively. We feel it, but are not able to put it into words. The great danger arises when we are not able to name the problem. When it is just there, and we know it, and we cannot put a finger on it. More concrete signs to look for in a person include drastic, abrupt changes in behavior (meticulously neat people who suddenly become extremely messy, talkative people who become very quiet) and wide mood swings. There are no real rules. It takes a skilled professional to diagnose a person in deep depression. Because of their convincing denial to themselves and others of their problem, they are very good at fooling themselves and other people.

If you are suspicious of a severe depression problem in someone you know, you must take control. As stated before, if the person is depressed and suicidal, he or she feels out of control of his or her own circumstances. You offer that control. Say “I want you to meet someone I know” and take him or her to a professional for help. Be strong, for the person could be deeply rooted in denial. If everything is okay, then...You will have shown that you care, and that is an important gesture to make. However, when our intuitions are strong enough that we feel it necessary to intervene, it is likely that we are right in doing so. How do we deal with David’s death? Openly talk about your feelings. Share tears. Even if you did not know him, it is so sad. Why hold on to your own feelings of sadness? That is what David did. As Chaplain Chuck Hasty said in David’s memorial service, when all else fails, we have each other, and we need to use each other. How else can we cope? Professionals skilled in treating depression and suicidal people are available at the Student Counseling Center in the basement of the Union. To make an appointment, call X 2451 or stop by the SCC office. In case of after-hours emergency, call a staff person from the Dean of Students Office. 

If we have a slight suspicion that someone is severely depressed and suicidal, it is important to follow up on that suspicion. We must intervene. 

Amelia Dockery is a clinical psychologist with the college counseling center. Tripp Helms is a senior religion major from Matthews, N.C.

“Never, never, never, never, never, never, never give up. Never, never, etc.” - John Burns

I recently saw a 20/20 story where a high school football coach’s pre-season speech was this: Never, never, never, never, never, never, never give up. Never, never, never... etc. It went on for about ten minutes. If there’s one thing that everyone, even an armchair quarterback like myself, can learn from sports, it is that message: don’t give up... ever.

Some recent events here just serve to more permanently engrave that ideal in my mind. It first hit me two and a half years ago. Mark was a friend of mine who had a biting wit, an incredibly sharp mind, and a love for practical jokes. He was adopted at a very young age, and his parents are two of the most genuinely caring individuals I have ever known. Mark’s dad was a very sick man. It seemed that every month another system in his body would shut down, and he'd have to go to the hospital. The doctors said they had never seen a man fight so hard for so long. John was living to see his son graduate from high school. He never gave up until he had nothing left to fight with. He died last month. John ceased to fight also because his reason for fighting was no longer there.

Mark had troubles, big ones they seemed in August 1987. He failed to get into the Naval Academy, a dream since his childhood, because of his eyesight and his history of asthma. A very disturbed old girlfriend had been hounding him for months, never giving him a moment's peace. She finally had him beaten up in his front yard by five guys, in full view of his helpless father. On top of it all, Mark was the kind of guy who held everything in, only letting a few of his friends know he had any troubles at all. On the night after he was beaten up, all of Mark’s closest friends were out of town. Mark snapped. He did what he had tried to do a couple of times before. He committed suicide in his car at the marina. I don’t know why he did it; I’ll never understand his reasoning, and I don’t think I want to. The only thing I understand is that Mark’s decision profoundly altered the lives of those around him. His father was never the same. Though he didn’t cease fighting, he was only a shell of his former self. The relationships between those of us who were his close friends changed forever, in ways we never could have imagined before August 6.

I don’t condemn Mark for what he did. His choice was one made at a time of what he thought was lonely desperation. The results only made it clear to me that none of us is ever alone. If you give up on yourself, you are also giving up on those who care about you.

I didn’t know David Blalock that well. But anyone who has been at Davidson for a while can tell that the mood has been much darker over the last few days than even our usual Davidson “Stressember.” People all over campus wonder “why?” even if, like me, they didn’t know him as anything more than a passing face in Chambers. His decision was a life-altering one for more people than just himself.

President Kuykendall’s prayer at Christmas Vespers, I guess, expressed my point more eloquently than I ever could. He referred to that sense we all feel of the walls closing in, the dark enveloping us. He then made it clear that there is always something out there to hold on to, a light piercing the darkness to guide us back. Kuykendall meant the power of God. But that beacon, it seems, can be anything you want it to be, even if you don’t want it to be God. Just realize that there is always something or someone to hold on to or for.

Have a safe and happy holiday season.

John Burns is a sophomore political science major from High Point, N.C.