18 THE BOYCOTT, IN PICTURES (See Page Six)
VOL. LVII
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1968
NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

CRAP Report Permits Drinking, Opens Dorms On Limited Basis
Local Rights Act Wanted
By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Managing Editor

Adoption of an accommodations act by the Town of Davidson was recommended this week by the Mayor's Community Relations Committee.

LEWIS HOMER - $250 bond
Homer Faces Trial

Lewis Homer, a Davidson junior, will face trial April 25 on charges of disorderly conduct in connection with an incident which occurred in front of Johnson's Barber Shop last Saturday night. Mecklenburg County Police made the arrest and charged Homer with disorderly conduct. Bond was set at $250. A crowd of about 15, including students and townspeople, was present when the arrest occurred. The group had been discussing the recent boycott of his barber shop with Johnson. Six county policemen and two town policemen arrived, arrested Homer and dispersed the crowd.

Meanwhile, the student boycott of Ralph Johnson's barber shop is still holding, according to Bobby Lane, one of the leaders of the boycott. The Student Government Association Senate approved a resolution backing the boycott. The boycott and picketing of the barber shop began April 2, when Johnson refused service to two Negroes. Lane said that the picketing would probably be resumed Tuesday morning after the expiration of the Monday night deadline set by the students backing the action, but also noted that the final decision would not be made until Monday night.

Were Davidson to adopt the public accommodations ordinance, it would be the first town in the United States to do so, said Dr. Tony Abbott, secretary of the Community Relations Committee. Abbott explained that Davidson would probably wait for Charlotte to adopt the ordinance, and then follow suit. "There is a huge legal problem involved," he said, and "a town like Davidson could not afford the court challenges" which would result. Lane, however, suggested that the town would have "no trouble getting legal aid from NAACP, ACLU, and so on." Abbott expressed doubt about the direct value of the (See PICKETING, Page 6)

NO-MAN’S LAND

Committee Emphasizes New Rules Philosophy
By JOHN WILLIAMS
Associate Editor

A new philosophy for rules of student conduct, which would allow drinking on campus and open dorms, is the major thrust of the Committee on Rules and Punishments report released today. The entire code is based upon the assumption of responsibility and maturity on the part of the students.

(Staff Photo by Robinson)
Homer Smith emerges with a new trim.

Saxons Use Harpsichord, Counter-Tenor
By DICK ANDERSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Saxons, Dan Goggin and Marvin Solley, opened the year’s third Hungry I production with their baroque folk music before the usual sparse crowd last night. Goggin and Solley call their music “Baroque Folk” because they use a harpsichord and Goggin's counter-tenor voice to produce effects not unlike the 16th and 17th century baroque music. Goggin, whose thick blond hair and inch-and-a-half of blond beard frame his face, says that there are only five counter-tenors in the world. "It's counter-tenor, not counterpoint or whatever it was that one guy who introduced us called it, and it’s like a second soprano."

Applicants Favor Davidson Scene
By GEORGE ALLEN
News Editor

Interviews with prospective freshmen visiting the campus Saturday revealed that most of the students were favorably impressed with Davidson. Several students mentioned that the physical plant compares favorably to those of other schools. One student, who had visited both Georgia Tech and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill said, "I thought the facilities here were better than those at Georgia Tech, although the dormitories are just about shot." Other students said that they liked the congenial atmosphere. "Both the other universities that I visited were much (See APPLICANTS, Page 6)

Senate Backs Boycott, 7-2, Appoints Ravenel And Doe

The newly-inaugurated student Senate voted to endorse the boycott of Ralph Johnson's barber shop Tuesday night by a vote of 7-2, and then passed, 6-2, a "resolution of intent" for the student body to underwrite any resulting losses by Johnson over the next several years. Members of the Residence Hall Council, Experimental College Board, a chapel speakers committee, and a committee to set up a radio station were elected by the student Senate last night. In addition, Will Ravenel was elected Senate secretary and Ernie Doe SGA treasurer. Both were unopposed.

In the resolution to endorse the boycott, all Senate members except freshman Gary Cash and junior John Passmore voted in favor. Covey Carter was absent, but indicated he would have voted against both resolutions. Rick Howard abstained on the resolution of intent. Passmore, acting secretary, explained the resolution of intent as "our intent for making a commitment to Johnson for making a commitment to us."

Appointed to the Experimental College Board were Sam Darby, Fletcher Hartsell, Ashton Trice, Marvin Ellison, Rich Cowart and Bob Folger. Jim May, Marvin Ellison and James Parks were appointed to a chapel speakers committee requested by Chaplain Scott Woodmansee to advise him. Appointed to help set up a campus radio station were Mike Powell, Gary Henschen, Steve Brown and Roger Mills. Tom Opie, James Brice, C. L. Cheshire, Jim Hinshaw, Mike Culbreth, Ray Stringfield, Bill Bailey, Frank Bass and Steve Page were appointed to the residence hall council.

Davidson’s annual spring blood drive will be held April 22 and 23 in Johnston Gym, the ROTC Department announced this week. Donations will be accepted from 11 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. both days. The ROTC Department also announced that shots from 1 to 3 p.m. next Tuesday will be given to all students who will attend summer camp this summer.with a lower register,” Goggin said. He has a three-octave range, reaching very high notes and rather low ones. “You know, though, I am not really singing as high as the audience thinks I am,” Goggin added. “More counter-tenors could probably be found, but people are kind of afraid to sing that way.”

Though Solley does most of the talking on stage, it is Goggin who is the more active off-stage. Goggin is a rather gentle person with an enormous fund of musical knowledge. He is the harpsichordist and sings the harmony to Solley’s baritone. Despite the fact that both Goggin and Solley are rather small, their voices are rich and powerful. Goggin says that he has no problems in maintaining his pitch at either end of his range, and his performance bears him out.

The Saxons’ harpsichord is one that they made themselves from a kit sold by a manufacturer in New York, which is their home base. After each show, the two invite the members of the audience to come up to the stage and examine the instrument, which is somewhat akin to a piano. “The baroque business is really because we have a harpsichord,” Solley said, “and we call ourselves The Saxons because baroque music was characteristic of England, where the Anglo-Saxons had lived. We could hardly call ourselves ‘The Anglos,’ you know.” “If we’d been smart, we would have called ourselves ‘The Baroque Folk,’” Goggin added, “but we didn’t think of it in time.”

MURPHY SWEARS
Cousar administers oath.

The consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted, according to the sixth section, in “private houses, fraternity houses, dormitory facilities or other areas designated by the college administration.” Drinking would not be allowed outside these areas, and “public drunkenness or irresponsible conduct encouraged by the use of alcohol” are strictly prohibited. The possession or use of drugs and firearms on campus is prohibited.

The admission of female visitors to the dormitories will be permitted during certain hours on the weekends. The code will be enforced through a philosophy of discipline which will allow the courts “to consider each infraction individually and make its decisions according to the seriousness of the offense.” A joint student-faculty regulations court would be established, consisting of six students and six faculty members. The Honor Court and honor regulations would remain virtually intact. Additional residence hall house committees would be set up under the new Residence Hall Association constitution to deal with minor violations of its rules.

Plans for a student campaign to raise $5,000 to match offers of $100 by two Davidson professors for Negro scholarships are moving along very well,” said Larry Slade, spokesman for a group of students organizing the drive. Psychology professor W. G. Workman had pledged to match $2,500 if students could raise $2,500, and this offer was matched by mathematics professor William M. Gavock in an identical offer. The Senior Class voted Thursday morning to contribute to this fund as well. The amount is not specified but is contingent upon student contributions.

Slade said that students would be asked to contribute to the scholarship fund Tuesday and Wednesday. Accompanying the scholarship, which would be administered by the admissions office, would be a concentrated student effort at recruiting. Slade indicated that a substantial showing of student interest would make this funding a possibility.

New bylaws which include a new office of chancellor and provisions for political parties on campus were recommended to the Senate by the Committee Monday. The bylaws also suggest the establishment of boards, councils, and legislative committees as agencies of the Student Government Association. These include a grant board, YMCA board, college board, elections board, and public speakers board. Councils, classified as “semi-autonomous” by the bylaws, are the Social Council, the Union Council, and others. The chancellor and the treasurer are to be on the order of civil servants, according to Mike Bates.

The bylaws recommend that political parties be allowed to nominate candidates in a convention of all members of the party. Also recommended is a revision of the present bylaws to allow candidates to spend up to $10 in campaigning. Legislative committees, which include committees on finance, the union and social life, the constitution, bylaws and judiciary, educational affairs, residence halls, and general affairs, are directly responsible to the Senate. They function in the same way as congressional committees, receiving bills and recommending action on them to the Senate. Boards, which would be autonomous, would be the grant board, YMCA board, college board, elections board, and public speakers board.

Several students were approached by a man in an old car on the road behind the college union. Although there were no actual sales made, it was evident, said the students, that the man was carrying liquor for sale. The town police were contacted and searched the campus for the car, but they were unable to find it.