“Complex” weekend! page 6

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 9

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, November 8, 1989

1909-90 Reynolds Lecturer Garry Wills “What is Hester Prynne doing at a political convention?”

Photo by Frank Gibbs

Do religion and politics mix?
Reynolds Lecturer Garry Wills thinks they do

By TAYLOR SMITH

Do Americans expect their politicians to be sinless? This year’s Reynolds Lecturer, Garry Wills, gave a positive answer to that statement when he spoke last Wednesday night in the 900 Room.

Wills is a nationally noted author and professor of American culture and public policy at Northwestern University.

A regular contributor to Time magazine, Wills is also the author of Jefferson’s Declaration of Independence, Politics and Catholic Freedom and most recently, Reagan's America.

Speaking to a large and diverse crowd, Wills spoke on the relationship between religion and politics in America, and how the two are intertwined due mainly to the American public’s search for “devils” against which it can direct its venom. These devils, at home and abroad, are individuals such as Willie Horton, Fidel Castro, Russia, communism, Khadaffi, and Jim Bakker.

Sin, as a criterion to measure character, has taken a large role in the American mind, said Wills. The American people, according to him, expect public figures, especially religious figures, to be perfect.

“The point of religion is the sinfulness of everyone, even preachers,” said Wills. “Anyway, what is Hester Prynne doing at a modern political convention?”

Wills also talked about the composition of political institutions. “Politics will become more inclusive than exclusive in the future,” he stated. “Formerly only white, Protestant males who have been married once were eligible to run. Now Catholics and women are accepted, and in time, Jews should be.”

“Religious tolerance in politics is expanding,” added Wills, “but religion is still a necessary component. Midway into the presidential election, Mike Dukakis was forced to remember that he was Greek Orthodox in order to compete with George Bush.”

This last presidential campaign was unique in that the American people began to care about things that were really of minor significance, stated Wills. Voters neglected the serious issues, responding to base appeals, he added.

The public came down with what Wills coined “flags on the brain” and “became frightened of the alphabet” upon hearing about such topics as the ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union). The politics of this election became “the politics of charm,” he concluded.

Perhaps the most important concept presented by Wills was the following: “Should people have the tools of democracy when what they want is so clearly deplorable? After the people elected Bush, some commentators wanted to elect a new people.”

96 pints of student blood collected on Halloween

ROTC blood drive hurt by colds and flu

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

The college ROTC began its annual Halloween blood drive with a target of 100 pints in donations. They came close to that goal with 96 pints collected by the end of the day.

About 125 people came to give blood, but many were turned away. Much of this was a result of the various coughs, colds, and flu cases that have ravaged the campus. President John Kuykendall joined several faculty members in donating a pint.

Ten door prizes, including a gift from Davidson Dry Goods, Norton’s Barber Shop, and free services from service stations, were raffled away. Stuart Baker organized the raffle. Junior Grier Martin organized the blood drive. “The hardest part of the drive was scheduling shift hours for cadets to work at the blood drive,” he stated. “It was very difficult to work around classes, labs, and ATs. In addition, we also recruited community volunteers from the Lions Club. Junior Bill Smith did most of these hard jobs.”

Also at the drive were volunteers from the Lions Club. They were asking blood donors to consider donating eyes after dying. The Lions Club had a successful effort, signing up about 30 people.

Graham Gund Architects revealed their plans for the new arts complex last week. The drawing above shows the complex from Griffith Street. See pages 4 and 5 for the rendering, including Main Street and aerial views, as well as floor plans.