Monday, February 20, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By PETER BYNUM and BRUCE NEWSOME

As the opening of the Baker Sports Complex nears, Grover Meetze, Director of Facilities Planning, seems confident that construction will
be completed “close to that date.” Although there will “be some time moving in that we’ll have to be flexible
with,” he added, all new facilities will be ready soon after students arrive next fall.

Assistant Athletic Director Bob Price remains optimistic that the basketball arena will be open for use by the start of
the 1989-90 basketball season. Price says the construction is progressing nicely, though he would not guarantee that the arena will
be ready due to the possibility of an accident that could set back the completion date or the chance of
bad weather between now and next fall. Price said that the completion date is in time for the first game
of next season and not the first day of school in August. However, there are some ceremonies planned in October,
so it would be nice for the complex to be completed by then. It is also possible that the basketball
arena could be used before the entire complex is completed. Price said that, for example, the basketball court could be
used while the finishing touches are still being done on the pool.

The gym itself will have 1400 permanent seats and another 4200 temporary seats that could be rolled out for the
big games. Price anticipates all home games except for the UNCC game to be played in the new arena. He
is hopeful that the big-name opponents such as Duke and Wake Forest will play Davidson on the new court.

Price said that it is not economical to continue to play games in the new Charlotte Coliseum because Davidson must
pay for all the concession stands and everything just like it was a Hornets game, even though Davidson attracts far
less than the 23,000 fans that the Hornets average.

In addition to the basketball arena, the complex has facilities for all the other indoor sports. There is a volleyball
court which is next to the basketball arena. There is also a wrestling room that will be the most modern
in the area. The weight room has a nautilus side and a free weight side. In between the two sides
is an office for the new Weightlifting Director which Price plans to hire in the future.

The pool has the utmost in modern equipment. The blockhead is movable so that the swimming and diving areas can
be separated, and there is a computer-operated machine that will control the chemical level in the water automatically. As for
the swimming program, Price, after consulting with other schools, has decided to make hiring an Aquatics Director his first priority,
and then a coach will be hired to start a varsity swim program.

The locker rooms are small but numerous. This way each sport can have their own private locker room and does
not have to share with another sport. There are also facilities for the non-varsity athlete since eight racquetball courts and
one squash court are being built. Each coach will have his or her own office which will be a vast
improvement over the current situation in Johnston Gym.

With a rough average of 100 working each day, Meetze says that very little is left to be done on
the main structure. In these last few months, efforts will focus on the finishing process: wiring, air conditioning, tiling, etc.
Metal ducts, cinder blocks, and insulation materials now clutter the cement framework, awaiting installation.

Despite the dust-covered confusion, many signs of progress can be seen. In a varsity locker room, a construction worker finishes
laying tile. Upstairs, the touchpads at the end of the pool have just been installed and men on scaffolding plaster
the walls of the new racquetball courts. These small details somehow lend method to the madness and a shine to
the vision.

Meetze has seen this vision and sees great potential for the new center. Not only does he foresee an increase
in student use of recreational facilities, he also hopes the complex will be a source of pride for Davidson and
will be a notable addition to the college. A confident Meetze feels the finished product will “impress a lot of
people.”

Our apologies. OOPS! We incorrectly identified a trustee in the last issue. The name should have been Mrs. Thomas Belk,
rather than simply Thomas Belk. Also, the fifth trustee mentioned in that article will be named by the Presbyterian Church,
not the Davidson College.

1989 Wearn Science Lecturer

Scientist to speak on possibilities of genetic manipulation

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Futuristic thrillers employ human genetic manipulation as standard plot material. Yet Clement Markert, Davidson College’s 1989 Wearn Science Lecturer, slowly
brings this manipulation closer to our time. In his research involving mice and pigs, Markert provides the basis for experiments
on humans. On February 21 at Davidson College’s Love Auditorium, Markert plans to discuss the social implications of genetic manipulation.
His lecture, entitled “Manipulating the Genetic Basis of Life: Are We Ready?” explores...the moral and scientific repercussions stemming from his
current research. Markert is distinguished research professor of animal science and genetics at North Carolina State University. “Human genetic manipulation
obviously can’t be very far away,” begins Markert. “The question is, what will we decide to do?” Markert’s current experiments
on pigs lay the groundwork for human genetic manipulation. Within the next five years, he hopes to combine the desirable
characteristics of American and Chinese animals to create a “perfect pig.” The procedure involves surgically introducing new genes into the
chromosomes, thus altering the organism’s genetic development.

For some, Markert’s potential success with animals poses significant moral problems. During the course of his speech, Markert plans to
logically refute many of these arguments. “We change the world about us every day,” Markert states. “What I would like
to do with the pigs isn’t anything compared to what has been done throughout centuries of genetic selection.” Markert maintains
that genetic manipulation already stands as a possibility with human beings. Procedures such as breeding humans are already scientifically probable.
Future developments include a cure for diseases caused by a genetic deficiency, such as hemophilia. However, these experiments create obvious
moral conflicts. Markert foresees a time when the cures would become commonplace and the lack of a sharp line between
disease and health would cause problems. People might use genetic manipulation to change behavior for social reasons. “To change the
genetic makeup is to change the person,” says Markert. Before human genetic manipulations are initiated, he believes that society must
establish a firm goal for that change.

Despite advancements in the genetics field, technical problems still baffle geneticists. In creating a “super swine,” Markert confronts a crucial
issue: “We can alter the general nature of an organism, but not in any controlled way.” Without a procedure to
identify the element that alters a specific trait, genetic manipulation remains a shot in the dark. Traditionally, scientists carried out
all genetic experiments by manipulating the eggs and sperm. Yet Markert’s research extends beyond these means to conduct experiments at
the cellular level. “We are learning to bypass the genetic barriers that keep the species separate,” says Donald Kimmel, professor
of biology at Davidson. “We are learning with pigs so we can do the same in humans.” The beneficial results
of human genetic manipulation could be enormous, asserts Markert. The possibility exists for scientists to cure hereditary diseases in addition
to correcting the chemical imbalances in the brain which cause insanity. These procedures are, however, still a long way off.

Davidson sets the standards

Ross chosen to design national economic achievement test

By LISA GERRARD

When comprehensive exams roll around next spring, Davidson economics majors might have an edge over those at other colleges and
universities. After all, the man who wrote the nation’s standardized achievement test is Davidson economics professor Clark Ross. The new
economics test is one of 15 produced by the Educational Testing Service (ETS)—the designers of the SAT and GRE as
well. ETS published the tests last year in response to the need for a reliable measure of comparison among schools.
The new exams, called Major Field Achievement Tests (MFAT), are giving both professors and students a better overview of their
national standing.

Although most MFATs captured rave reviews by the 223 institutions that participated in pilot administrations, the first economics test and
five others proved too difficult and were revised this year. Ross wrote to ETS last year and suggested that they
employ a broader range of questions to accommodate students with a more rounded background. Having received additional complaints already, ETS
jumped at the chance to involve an interested undergraduate professor in the MFAT project. During a three-month procedure, Ross collaborated
with professor Hans Palmer of Pomona College in Claremont, CA, to write the second test. The two put finishing touches
on their 104 questions during a day in Princeton, NJ, at ETS offices.

Economics professor Clark Ross. Photo courtesy of College Relations

Ross said previous major assessment tests have been inappropriate for students at liberal arts institutions. He was glad to have
been chosen for the job because it gave him the opportunity to make up for years of what he has
considered technically biased testing. The new test will be effective, he said, because it correctly reflects or accommodates the curriculum
of most schools’ economics programs. While colleges and universities around the country vie for top positions and top students, assessing
the quality of academic achievement and comparing schools nationwide have become increasingly important issues for educators, according to Nancy Beck
of ETS.

As in the past, Davidson is testing economics majors with the GRE alone this year. “The problem with the GRE
is that it concentrates too much on specialized areas that students do not typically take as undergraduates,” Ross said. “It
is better for assessing the potential of a student in graduate school rather than competency in the major. We will
use the new MFAT as a part of our seniors’ comprehensive exam.”

Most Davidson economics majors consider Ross’s examinations “extremely fair.” Senior Lisa Stewart has taken three courses with Ross and says
his tests are average in comparison with those by other economics professors. “His tests do require a good deal of
understanding and interpretation of the material, though,” she said.
