‘Wednesday, November 1, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gross Anatomy serves up same old pop film fare, but does it with a clever twist

By BENJY ORMAND

For the second time in his short career, Matthew Modine has embarked on a vision quest. The first time was as a high school wrestler in Vision Quest, being challenged to be the very best by an attractive older woman and a seemingly invincible foe. This time, in Gross Anatomy, it’s as a first-year medical student aspiring to be a good doctor, challenged by his anatomy teacher and the attraction of a fellow med student.

This movie is quite different than those which I have reviewed up to now, in that it’s a pop film with little or no redeeming social meaning. But, that’s not necessarily a bad thing. Gross Anatomy was a refreshing change of pace. It is clever and entertaining and it has some neat twists which make it a good way to waste two hours. But along those same lines, it doesn’t do anything particularly new.

The movie serves to disengage the thought processes of the audience, so that once you become familiar with the main characters you begin to identify with them. I actually found myself at certain points saying, “Wow! It would be kind of neat to be in medical school.” And that’s what I think these kinds of movies try to do, besides make big bucks. So, while there’s plenty of cliché stuff in this flick, it’s at least as good as the standard fare.

A friend of mine who goes to a school in Boston told me his experience when he went to see this on opening night. There were lots of students from the Harvard Med program there, and he said that they seemed well entertained and that they liked it. So that says to me that the movie was credible. I mean, actual med students seemed to think that it was a faithful representation of some of their turmoils.

It works out to be one of the standard mentor/genius-student flicks. And if you like that, or if you’re just planning to go to med school, then go. You will have a pretty good time.

Rating: ***

Note: The rating scale which I am using can be interpreted in the following way.

***** is equivalent to something which you should be willing to kill a dear friend to see.
**** is a movie which is an immortal classic, and yet not one which you can ever remember when your friends ask you what your favorite movies are.
*** is a film which should not be missed, often because it raises so many interesting questions pertinent to any viewer.
** is the standard rating, basically applying to any flick which Hollywood decides is good enough for the summer lineup or a several million dollar gross.
* means forget it; either someone just dropped the ball while making it, or it was so pathetic it should have never been made.
Zero stars is a special category. It applies to only the very worst films; the kind where you laugh at the movie instead of with it. This kind of movie you...have to make jokes about after you have seen it, just so your friends don’t think you were a total idiot for spending any amount of money on it. So while technically, zero stars is a worse movie rating than one star, I will take exception in that a movie that got one star at least had a shot at being worthwhile. A zero-star movie isn't even really a movie—it’s a two-hour-long joke. One-star movies make me madder because they were trying to pawn off a piece of junk as a real movie. I hope that this aids you in deciding whether or not you might go to a movie.

Matthew Modine and Daphne Zuniga play doctor in Gross Anatomy. Photo Courtesy of Touchstone Pictures

MAD magazine shaped modern political cartooning and V.C. Rogers

By PAUL BARRINGER

The work of political cartoonist V. Cullum Rogers was recently on display in the Union Gallery. A Davidson graduate and former Davidsonian cartoonist, Rogers worked until recently with the Durham Morning Herald. Prior to that, he completed graduate studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He is presently in search of a job, having been axed, as he told his audience last Thursday morning, by a zealously cost-conscious newspaper accountant.

In his talk, Rogers outlined prevailing trends in political cartooning during the last few decades. He also sketched his own career path as a political cartoonist. He stated that the ‘50s witnessed declining numbers of political cartoonists. The grim style of socialist realism which characterized most cartoons of that period apparently frightened off potential cartoonists. Rogers cited three factors which have significantly contributed to the expansion of the political cartooning field in subsequent years.

First of all, the stylistic diet of MAD magazine had cultivated a sense of the absurd, countering the mainstream tendencies of such cartoonists as Herblock. Secondly, Australian Patrick Oliphant, a particularly inventive and prolific cartoonist, injected new life into the cartoonists’ stylistic vocabulary. Finally, the events of the late ‘60s and early ‘70s, the years of Watergate and Vietnam, provided an immense amount of absurd and insane material for the cartoonist to work with.

Rogers stated that a continuing problem with cartooning involves the restrictions imposed on the cartoonist by a newspaper's editorial staff. He suggested that since the numbers of small-town daily newspapers have shrunk in recent years, the editors of the remaining papers have been forced to appeal to a broader cross-section of the public. Rogers feels that this position has increasingly forced cartooning to become less opinionated. He stated, however, that he had been fairly fortunate in this regard, and that his past positions had allowed him a fair degree of autonomy.

When asked for advice for aspiring cartoonists, Rogers remarked that it was far better to tear up one drawing and start the next rather than to needlessly belabor a misconceived attempt. Another suggestion he offered involved intentionally conjoining somewhat disparate ideas. Finally, and most importantly, Rogers stressed that any sense of taste could only be a hindrance to the up-and-coming cartoonist.