$e&-& THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75th ANNIVERSARY ISSUE April 1989

Seventy-five years of collegiate journalism

Beating out “Red and Black,” “Electron,” and “Haka-Raka,” among others, W.H. Neal's entry won the March 1914 contest to name
Davidson College’s new student newspaper. On April 1, the first issue of The Davidsonian appeared. Seventy-five years have passed since
an enthusiastic student body voted to establish the publication. The paper has dutifully recorded the events of this college during
this period, encompassing both World Wars and Vietnam, Woodrow Wilson through George Bush, and nearly half of the college’s 152-year
history. While the historical record it provides is by no means complete, The Davidsonian is probably the best single source
of college goings-on.

Founding editor E.W. Price’s paper devoted much time and attention to sports, particularly the 1914 Davidson football team. The team
went 8-1 that season, including a spectacular 86-6 win over perennial whipping boy Wofford, and its sole loss was at
the hands of arch-rival North Carolina.

The massive events that swept over Davidson during World War II were not as evident in The Davidsonian; the most
striking difference in the paper was the occasional notice of an alumnus being killed in action. The freshmen continued to
paint over the sophomore class’ number with their own on the water tower each year, and battles between The Davidsonian
and Scripts and Pranks erupted periodically.

In fall 1953, the newspaper's raging debate centered around a proposal to return to traditional diplomas; blocked Latin letters had
been used since 1930 in place of the traditional ornate script. The class of 1954 became the first to use
the “classic” diplomas after a student body vote passed the measure 431-63.

The 1960s were the heyday of Shaw Smith’s Union, and two or three times a year, the newspaper would be
led with headlines such as “Cupid, St. Valentine’s, Mid Winters Triumph Over Villainous Flu Bug” when Joni James and Louis
Armstrong came to play in February 1960. A January 1961 issue demonstrated the changing nature of Davidson. As the front
page contained a standard story: “Librarian Warns against Defacing,” the back page had an ad from the Fox Drive-In for
The Garden of Eden: “Nothing about the human body is vulgar or immoral—evil is in the mind.”

Although a poll as recent as 1966 showed 75 percent of students supporting the government’s policy in Vietnam, the newspaper
and students successfully brought considerable pressure on the Trustees during the 1968-69 school year to make ROTC voluntary. The 55th
anniversary issue of The Davidsonian in 1969 discussed the editorials of the paper’s first year: “They were editorializing on the
war then, too. But it was a different war and produced a different attitude.”

A December 1971 gag issue was headlined “Trustee Approval Final Hurdle Left for Spencer-Bevan Coeducation Plan,” yet a scant six
months later the Trustees actually did it: “Trustees Give Unanimous Approval for Immediate Acceptance of Coeds.” An October 1972 issue
was led by a story questioning Davidson’s “Christian Commitment” stipulation in awarding tenure to faculty, a practice that hit the
front pages of The New York Times and The Washington Post a mere five years later.Later, when President Sam Spencer
retracted a job offer to Jewish professor Ron Linden, the resulting outcry from the newspaper and students led to a
Trustee change in policy by the end of the year. The Davidsonian could not be faulted for not covering student
trends during this era. Tom Ainsworth, Senior News Editor, wrote in 1974, “Though not very strong in numbers, and lacking
in continuity, this campus can be proud of the fact that it has the most polite streakers in the state,
possibly the country.” Students published a route before the fact so those who would be offended could be forewarned.

The 1978 administration takeover of Trustees decided to give control of the station to the college. Months of protests and
editorials failed this time and the administration refused to give in. A Guide to Courses at Davidson appeared in the
April 6, 1979, issue. Its biting, at times libelous, satire describing the faculty had the rare effect of rousing the
students into action against the newspaper rather than with it. The outcry cost editor Charles Erwin his job within a
week.

The Reagan era was reasonably quiet at Davidson. Perhaps the biggest controversy in this decade was at the beginning of
my own term as editor last fall, as Davidson struggled to decide what its football policy would be. Football players
and parents leveled allegations of broken promises and dishonor against the college not only in the pages of The Davidsonian
but also The Charlotte Observer. We were leaked a faculty report detailing the academic and budgetary woes of the program.
(Basketball coach Bobby Hussey provided us with a great quote when he characterized the authors of the report as “frustrated
jocks.”) I was somewhat flattered to find myself accused in a letter to the Observer of being part of an
elaborate conspiracy to kill football at Davidson; other parties in my scheme were the editors of the Observer, the administration,
and the faculty.

It is an honor to be at the helm when The Davidsonian turns 75; it has given me the opportunity
to research and reflect upon the experiences of editors over the past three-quarters of a century. Many of the problems
we face are different: today we moan about computer systems going down late in the night, but the 1921-22 editor
had to deal with his office going up in smoke with Chambers. But we encounter many of the same problems,
too: how to meet deadlines and keep up with schoolwork, how to motivate the staff, how to stress concepts like
objectivity. It has always boiled down to a weekly battle against mediocrity, ignorance, and typos in headlines.

Best Wishes!

We are completing our first quarter-century of service from Main St. and understand a bit of the sense of dedication
and commitment required to keep your great tradition going.

"A World of Gifts for Mother's Day"

Upon beginning the 4th quarter-century of community service!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Village

110 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C.

128 S. Main St. P.O. Box 893

Open Faces

Davidson's Most Comprehensive Selection of Fine Imported Beers

We have over 30 different imports!

Special! Buy one yogurt, get one free. Offer good through the month of April.
