_The Davidsonian_
Monday, January 23, 1989

Tarner Gilmore moves the ball against the defense of Marylee County.

Around the Horn

Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Coaching inconsistencies cost Wildcats on court

By HAP BRYANT
Major college basketball coaches can manipulate game situations to their teams’ advantage. Take Villanova’s Rollie Massamino. He works the clock,
substitution patterns, and timeouts to put his team in a position to win almost every game.

As a result, Massamino’s 1986 Villanova squad marched over better teams to win the NCAA Championship, and the 1989 Wildcats
have soundly beaten third-ranked Syracuse.

Many other coaches take active parts in their teams’ games, usually with favorable results—Bobby Knight at Indiana, Lou Carnasecca at
St. John’s, Dean Smith at UNC.

Unfortunately, Davidson does not have the luxury of one of these masters. But we still expect our coach to act
in a similar fashion, albeit on a more limited scale.

Thus far this season, and indeed in the last few seasons, Davidson basketball fans and players have been sorely disappointed
by the performance of Coach Bobby Hussey.

Performance is the correct word, for Hussey is an active participant in the events that transpire on the court.

However, he has acted inconsistently during this campaign and has actually put his team at a disadvantage.

In particular, Hussey seems oblivious to the realities of the game. He has consistently failed to use timeouts to stop
the other team’s momentum, and when he has used them, it has normally been six or eight points too late.

For example, against Wofford College, perhaps the worst performance by a Davidson basketball team in recent history, Hussey allowed Wofford
to dictate every aspect of the game. A ten-point Wofford lead at the half grew to eighteen before Hussey even
attempted to stop the momentum. Of course, by then it was too late.

Another glaring fault, even more grievous because the Wildcats are young, has been Hussey's substitution pattern, or lack thereof. How
can anyone expect the freshmen on the team to gain any confidence and experience when they always fear being removed
from the game?

For instance, in last weekend’s game against Florida International, Paul Denmond entered the game. After a short time, he made
a “freshman mistake,” turning the ball over. Soon after, he was back on the bench, wondering when he would get
another chance.

The freshmen are not the only victims. Juniors Maurice Gray and Dick Seidel have also lost confidence. Gray, who has
possessed more potential than just about any other recent Wildcat, sat out the first eight minutes of the second half
against Florida International. Seidel played fifteen minutes against Duke, the top-ranked team in the country. Then he did not play
against Campbell. You figure it out.

No one can expect any of the players to mature until they are allowed to make mistakes and learn from
them.

See BRYANT, page 12

Basketball

Cats 1-3 since winter break

By LARRY DAGENHART

Davidson briefly enjoyed the sweet taste of victory Saturday night as the young Cats racked up 20 points from Alan
Hunter and 18 from Bruce Elder to beat Florida International 85-75.

Although Davidson was ahead by ten at the half, 42-32, the win did not come easy down the stretch. After
being up by 19 points, the Wildcats came up empty on their next five possessions, allowing the Golden Panthers to
cut the lead to 11. At the two-minute mark, Florida cut Davidson's lead to a three-point play after a Sellers
foul to make it 75-70.

Sellers, who scored a team-high 14 points along with nine rebounds, took out his frustrations on the next possession with
a third dunk, which got a standing ovation from the Wildcat fans. That made the score 77-70.

Things got kind of scary for the Cats during the last minute of play. With 51 seconds remaining, Hunter missed
a one-and-one opportunity and on the ensuing possession, fouled F.I.U.’s Brett Lewis at the other end, who made both free
throws and cut Davidson’s lead to only five. Davidson’s margin briefly crept up to six as Sterling Freeman made the
front end of two foul shots to make it 78-72. But the shot that put Florida in position to win
the game was Dwight Stewart's 3-pointer with 29 seconds left. The Panthers, then down by three, were forced to foul,
as time was running out.

After an F.I.U. turnover, Jay Schmitt fed Hunter for a stuff to seal Florida’s fate. Gaines intercepted another pass and
with two seconds left, Hunter was fouled by Garcia and made one more foul shot to end the game.

See HOOPS, page 12
