Commentaries | The Davidsonian Wednesday, November 8, 1989 13

Memories of Parents’ Weekend, 1989

The class presidents

Memories of Parents Weekend, 1989: Fun, parties, convocation, plays, presentations, introductions, reunions, and entertainment. A time for Davidson students to
truly shine in their element. A time for parents to relax and enjoy their children’s achievements. A time for us,
as proud Davidson students, to show our parents just how much this place really means to us.

However, many of us and our parents were stunned by the realities of Parents’ Weekend '89, which included:
- $5.50 Commons dinners
- $4.75 Commons picnic snacks
- $6.00 football game tickets

Imagine how pleased our parents must have been to arrive on campus for “their weekend” only to be charged to
the hilt for each activity they attended. Is not Parents’ Weekend intended to be a tribute to the people who
are a main source of income for Davidson College? Is not Parents’ Weekend a time to recognize the people who
make our experiences here possible? And most of all, is not Parents’ Weekend simply a thank you to them?

If so, then let us examine what a fine job the Davidson College community did of conveying thanks. The experience
of many parents may have begun with the “Octoberfest” dinner in the Commons. For admission to this extravaganza, each person,
even small children, had to pay a fee of $5.50. Many parents probably thought that eating as their children do
would be fun and economical, yet could have enjoyed a nice dinner with table service for the same price or
less at nearby restaurants.

Even more outrageous was the official Vail Commons picnic following Convocation on Saturday, clearly a rip-off. To the dismay of
many, the $4.75 lunches consisted of the same four components: a chicken sandwich, fruit cup, crackers, and either a granola
bar or a cream puff. The choice of a Diet Pepsi or a Pepsi cannot be overlooked. These same items
can be purchased in the Union Cafe or other retail establishments at a combined price considerably less than $4.75.

Many parents may have also experienced a trip to the Davidson College football stadium on Saturday afternoon to see the
Wildcats play. While most parents certainly want to support Davidson athletics, it is hard to stomach a six-dollar entrance fee,
per person, to a Davidson College sporting event. Even harder to accept is the fact that people without exact change
were charged as much as $10.00 for admission due to lack of sufficient change resources. Whatever happened to good old-fashioned
fun at a good old-fashioned price?

While these are not tremendous burdens to bear for most Davidson parents, the college does not need to aggravate parents
with ridiculous prices. We believe that Davidson College has the responsibility to offer a variety of activities for our parents
at little or no cost while they are our guests for this one weekend. It is time that the college
pays our parents the tribute they deserve, rather than turning “their weekend” into a money-making scheme.

Jared Baxter is the Freshman Class President from Salt Lake City, UT; Jackie Carberry is the Sophomore Class President from
Davidsonville, MD; Josh Hickman is the Junior Class President from Greenville, NC; William Brewer is the Senior Class President from
Greenville, NC.

Soccer is football, and football is our life in Britain
Adam Smith

To some, Liverpool is a dull, flat, stale, and unprofitable city in the North West of England, distinct for its
dingy streets. But to many, this place is the heart of their lives—the mass of scarves and banners, the Scouse
songs, the pints of Taddy Porter, the tension, the whistle, the goals, the celebrations, and the commiserations over the ninety
minutes of fast-flowing football.

Scheduled for 3:00, the police, oblivious to the fact that the Liverpool end was already overcrowded, opened further gates just
fifteen minutes before match time, letting unticketed supporters pour into what was fast becoming a quite noticeable death-trap. The referee
started the game but only six minutes were clocked before it was halted, due to the immense number of supporters
climbing over the wire-mesh barriers to safety. And while the players left the pitch and the commentators searched for information,
thousands of fans were being crushed on barriers, fences, and even their friends and families, as the gates remained ajar
from the back and more people entered.Soccer played on a Saturday afternoon. This is LIVERPOOL FOOTBALL CLUB—the home of the
dedicated and fervent Liverpool supporters of the most successful English football team of all time.

The passion in which the 45,000 fans pack the Liverpool home, Anfield, every other week is unquestionable. Over half of
these people have stood, swayed, cheered, been pushed and cramped, and been held and hugged in an indescribable atmosphere on
"The Kop," the hill at one end of the ground. These are the loyalists, and each one makes his other
contribution to the immense roar. British equivalent to an Italian "Scann Bagg" when the game is on. Nicknames are created,
especially for goalkeepers, who are welcomed, and spirits are boosted. Indeed, many would agree that Liverpool, with their army of
followers, enter the game with a goal advantage. Thus, it is with no surprise that I tell you of the
bands and the tearful Merseyside final between Liverpool and Everton, which was rightfully won by the team who had endured
so much grief.

The Hillsborough disaster brought the whole of football and, indeed, England, to a complete standstill. As we sent bouquets of
flowers to commemorate the 95 who died, games were canceled, tributes were laid, and The Kop was made into a
shrine for those that were lost. No good can come from such a tragedy, but it was fitting that the
F.A. Cup was continued out of respect, and the Merseyside final between Liverpool and Everton was rightfully won by the
team who had endured so much grief. And while the wire fences were taken down around the country and inquiries
made into the idiocy of those involved in the maintenance of the Sheffield Wednesday ground, no one could really concentrate
on football, as only sorrow was entailed among the entire nation.

One of my best friends was in the horrific stand that day, and as I tried long and hard to
contact him, I could only envisage the worst. Thankfully, Access Executive Peter Little is still alive today, thanks to the
specialist attention that was given to him in The Derby General Hospital. The whole nightmare, though, and the scars—both mental
and physical—will remain. No Liverpool, and indeed no British football supporter, will ever forget the worst day in their sporting
history. I should be thankful that my ticket for the game never arrived in the post, and it is times
like these when sportsmen and their watchers must combine together to beat such a happening.

The irony that it was their own fellow men and friends that crushed to death many of the supporters must
be forgotten. Angry accusations as to who to blame are also really better omitted. Members of the team naturally attended
funerals, and Manager Kenny Dalglish set up many tributes and sent the Liverpool team out with black armbands for the
remainder of the unimportant matches. Hillsborough will remain in everyone's heart, and those that fortunately survived tackle on with grace
and much support. Like those stadiums in America, England must seek to make all grounds seated; what a shame that
such a tragedy must bring to an end the long tradition of standing that has always been the main feature
and enjoyment of The Kop. And while Dalglish remembers, Liverpool must be re- Bill. Indeed, it was this tribute to
the 95 that most clearly stood out in my saddened mind: "In Heaven, Bill Shankly will take care of you."
God rest their souls, as people fight on.

Smith is a Rusk Scholar in London, UK.
