Monday, February 6, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Black History Month Review.

News Shorts

Tutoring available in Dean’s office
The Dean of Students office has devised a way to obtain a tutor in any subject, regardless of ability to
pay. Seek help now before it’s too late. Contact Stone Bynum or Mrs. Atchley in the Dean’s Office for details.

Gates, a Professor at Cornell University and the general editor of The Norton Anthology of Afro-American Literature, will speak on
Tuesday, Feb. 7 in the 900 Room. It begins at 7:30 p.m.

AIDS follow-up

Beyond Davidson: International News

Kabul embassy shut; W. Germans vote in former SS officer
By BETH DRUMMOND and CAROL GATEWOOD

AFGHANISTAN: On Monday, the United States formally closed its embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan. Citing fears of a breakdown in “law
and order” as a result of the withdrawal of Soviet troops, Secretary of State James Baker made the final decision
to close the embassy. Air activity remains intense although the Soviet troop pullout is scheduled to end by mid-February.

WEST GERMANY: Election results in West Berlin for the city Parliament shocked citizens when the far-right Republican Party won 11
seats in the 144-member legislative body. This gain means that for the first time the extremist party will have seats
in the regional legislature and the national Parliament in Bonn. The Republican Party is led by a former SS officer.

SAN SALVADOR, EL SALVADOR: In the past two months, terrorist attacks by the FMLN (The Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front)
have grown, as marked by the killing of ten provincial mayors and a car bombing on January 21 that killed
one civilian and injured two others. Such actions by the FMLN have led to dissension between this military rebel group
and other political leftists. Many leftist politicians returned to El Salvador a year ago under the aegis of the Arias
Peace Plan and its guarantee of amnesty. Functioning under the title of the Democratic Convergence, these leaders hope to improve
political life in El Salvador through the electoral process as opposed to violent insurrection. The convergence has had a difficult
alliance with the FMLN, and it fears that the rebel group’s recent violent actions are undermining their efforts.

Feb. 23 meeting
New faces include: Ariail, Belk, Allied Health
By GARY WHEELER

Davidson College will have several new trustees at the February 23-24 meeting. Four of the new trustees have already been
named, a fifth is expected to be officially voted in at the meeting, and several more at-large members are expected
to be selected. The new trustees are John Ariail, Jr. '64 from Lorton, Va., and Thomas M. Belk of Charlotte.

RUSK, from page 1
For example, as a Rhodes Scholar, he watched the Reichstag being taken away on buses by the Nazis. As Secretary
of State in 1961, Rusk chose the 38th parallel as the dividing line between North and South Korea. He advised
then-president John F. Kennedy during...several crises, including the Cuban Missile Crisis. Twenty years later, Papp believes that the retired statesman’s
political views have remained solid, yet he remains receptive to new ideas. The key to Rusk’s outstanding career is a
belief in a high-paced work ethic, says Papp. Papp has authored and edited several books. His articles have been published
in Current History and Soviet Union. Rusk’s autobiography book will be published by W.W. Norton. Papp’s lecture was sponsored by
a grant from the Ford Motor Company.

TUX RENTALS
FORMALS BY
Miami Vice © After Six © Raffinati © Bill Blass
Pierre Cardin © Christian Dior © Lord West
Yves Saint Laurent
MANY TUXES ON DISPLAY (ACCESSORIES AVAILABLE)
Also FORMALS FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Proms © Weddings © Formals
Order Early
All Occasion Shop
Town Square, Cornelius 892-9129
Wide Selection © Low Prices
Hometown Service

threatening the diplomatic process and potential votes in the March 19 presidential elections. Recent polls indicate that Guillermo Ungo, the
Convergence presidential candidate, is third in a race field of six. If Ungo maintains this place and the first round
election has no absolute majority, leftists may win some legitimate power roles in the Salvadoran government. Presently the U.S. and
the Salvadoran government and military refuse to fully accept the “democratic commitment” of the Convergence until it breaks its ties
to the FMLN.

BECAUSE YOU DESERVE IT!
Professionals
The Air Force can make you an attractive offer—outstanding compensation plus opportunities for professional development. You can have a challenging
practice and time to spend with your family while you serve your country. Find out what the Air Force offers.
Call TSGT WILL WILBURN 704-377-1812 STATION-TO-STATION COLLECT

former Davidson dean of admissions James P. Hendrix, Jr. '63 from Raleigh, and Carol C. Willingham '77 of Raleigh. Belk
and Willingham were both former trustees who have been reactivated. According to Sally Robinson, assistant to the president, the peace
conference scheduled for later this month is expected to be “basi-

FREE TANNING SESSION
Single Session $4 | Manicure $10
Ten Sessions $30 | Acrylics $40
Unlimited Month $40 | Fills $20
M-F 10-6 | SAT 10-5 | SUN 1-5
10% Discount with student ID
ONE COUPON PER PERSON

COLLEGE GRADUATES
Put your education to work—become a Paralegal
The Career for the 90’s at The National Center for Paralegal Training
© Oldest and largest graduate level ABA-approved program in the Southeast
© Employment assistance—over 1,000 employers in 38 states have hired our graduates
© 3 month day program with housing available
© 7 month evening program
© Diversified Curriculum—specialize in Litigation; Corporations, or Real Estate and Probate—including “Computers in the Practice of Law”
Thursday, March 30, 1:00 - 5:00
Meet with our representative at the College Placement Office
The National Center for Paralegal Training
800-223-2618
In Georgia, call 404-266-1060
3414 Peachtree Rd, NE Atlanta, GA

Name
Address
City
State
Zip
College
Yr. Grad.
Phone: DAY (__) EVENING (__)
