Features

Facing death for nature’s sake

Graduate returns to share wilderness adventures

By JAN-JOOST BOUWMAN

Environmental activist Charles Tambiah has faced death more than once in his worldwide pursuit of wildlife studies. Elephants have charged
at him and nearly trampled him several times. Once he was almost bitten by Sri Lanka’s most poisonous snake, whose
venom can cause death in less than eight minutes. On another occasion, he nearly lost his right hand to a
python. And if those dolphins had not come along, that shark might have come too close...

Despite frightening experiences like these, Tambiah still can’t contain his love for nature. Even with his share of what he
calls “challenging” situations, he doesn’t think the wilderness is dangerous or offensive. Tambiah said the animals gave him warnings that
he was intruding in their personal space. When he disregarded the warnings, they attacked.

Tambiah graduated from Davidson’s Center for Special Studies last year with a major in international wildlife conservation. During high school
in his native country, Sri Lanka, he became more attracted to nature than to his books. After graduation from Davidson
last year, he received a unique offer from the Smithsonian Institution to spend 18 months alone in the Sri Lankan
jungle, studying wildlife in its many forms. He said he learned an enormous amount about and from wildlife in the
freedom of the atmosphere there.

“Freedom is very important to me, freedom in nature, the freedom of being yourself. It’s a way to relate to
other living creatures, both animal and human. Animals share your freedom, they respect your personal space and accept you as
you are,” Tambiah said.

Tambiah caught an Indian rock python one day and took it to his camp, where he marked it and released
it. Three years later he encountered the same snake. “There was no aggression at all, but a mystical sense of
recognition. I picked it up, carried it around, it sat on my bike, on my shoulder and it slept with
me in my sleeping bag at night—and it was a completely wild snake.”

From the python, Tambiah learned about the bonds that are possible between people and wildlife, and about the ability for
animals to remember and respect people—especially those humans who work to help them in their struggle for existence.

A leopard visited Tambiah’s camp for several weeks in the jungle. He never got to see more than the cat’s
tracks, which he mapped to monitor its “territorial behavior.” One warm night Tambiah decided to sleep outside. The next morning
he noticed the leopard’s paw marks all around his sleeping bag. That morning he followed the fresh tracks until they
disappeared. Walking back to the camp, he suddenly realized that leopard paw prints were in his own footsteps! The leopard
had been tracking its human pursuer, yet it showed no aggression. It respected Tambiah’s personal space.

“Incidents like this taught me a lot about the reward you can get by understanding animals. Animals are generally considered
lower than human beings. I don’t think like that, I respect them as individuals and my success in field research,
in getting so close to animals and doing such crazy photography is because I have learned to respect and understand
the behavior of the being that I am working with. I don’t treat animals as objects.”

Sharing his experiences with others is very important to Tambiah. “It is no use for me to go to all
those exotic places if I can’t share it. It is of no value if I am the only person gaining
from it. I did gain from it—I graduated with honors in it, but that is not enough. With photography as
a tool I hope I can convey my feelings.”

Tambiah seeks to show people places and animals they would probably never see otherwise. He realizes that wildlife conservation is
not a business to make one rich, but he is devoted to it because it’s what he wants to do
and enjoys doing. He believes that animals have the same right to a place in this world as people and
he is willing to fight for the survival of ecosystems. His concern for animals derives from his hypothesis that animals
are indicators of human existence. “If we destroy wildlife we are destroying ourselves,” Tambiah said. He describes life on earth
as a big ecosystem that will break down in sequence, eventually reaching man at the top of the pyramid. Taking
a single link from the chain is dangerous. “By protecting wildlife we are protecting ourselves; by getting involved we can
create a better future for mankind.”

Tambiah hopes to attend graduate school next year, pursuing a degree in wildlife planning. He feels that wildlife planners should
be aware of the social, economic, and political ramifications of their work, as well as the biological implications. “There must
ultimately be someone who can solve the problem and unite conflicting interests.”

Tambiah sincerely wishes Davidson students would become more involved in wildlife and environmental issues. “My motto has always been ‘think
globally, act locally.’”Locally.’ This is very apt for Davidson.” He said that if students became involved they could start a
sequence that would reach thousands of people. “Davidson can serve as an example to other schools. And there are plenty
of ways to get involved. There is the Biology Society; the Recycling Committee can certainly use your help. In April
there is going to be an on-campus environmental conference, with important speakers and lots of activities, to stimulate awareness among
students and other community members. People can write articles or get internships in wildlife conservation, too.”

Media innovators launch dramatic series about college grads
By LISA GERRARD

The latest fad on college campuses, says senior Melissa Dilettuso, is student-run cable TV stations that feature programs from college
news to soap operas based on campus events. Dilettuso, who studied television and film at the University of California at
Los Angeles last year, is currently writing the pilot of a show she hopes will set the ball rolling for
Davidson’s own cable station. Her dramatic series “Between Extremes” will premiere on campus in April. The story features four women
and two men who have recently graduated from Davidson and share an apartment in Charlotte. “We wanted to do something
that people could look at and say ‘Yeah, I’ve had those problems, too,’ or ‘I could see myself going through
that after graduating from Davidson,” said Dilettuso.

Dilettuso developed the idea for “Between Extremes” from shows produced at schools such as UCLA and UNC-Chapel Hill. She said
her 30 to 40-minute pilot will be similar to the nighttime drama thirtysomething. Theater veteran and senior Margaret Hancock is
directing the show. The two chose to call the show “Between Extremes” because the characters are between the Davidson experience
and “being out in the real world.” Dilettuso admits that she has taken on an enormous time commitment. Attuned to
the real world herself, Dilettuso said she is devoted to the project because she hopes to build a career from
television and filmmaking. She and Hancock will apprentice assistants who might continue the series next year. The ultimate goal is
to develop a Davidson College TV station on which a news show, this series, and other programs would regularly air.
Having written for a soap opera and developed a screenplay for a feature film while in California, Dilettuso brings plenty
of writing experience to the set. Hancock has directed several Davidson productions and worked last term as an intern for
a TV station. The entire film crew and cast will be Davidson students. Filming will be on campus, with outside
shots made in Charlotte.

Abbott examines modern drama in The Vital Lie
By SONYA STARNES

Are illusions good or bad? What makes an illusion good or bad? What happens to people when they are stripped
of their illusions? Is God the ultimate illusion or the ultimate reality? English professor Tony Abbott explores how playwrights have
dealt with these questions in his new book entitled The Vital Lie. The title originates from Ibsen’s The Wild Duck,
the first play Abbott examines in his book. Ibsen writes, “Deprive the average man of his vital lie and you’ve
robbed him of happiness as well.”

The preface of Abbott's book relates that through his studies of modern drama with various scholars and teaching a course
on the subject at Davidson, he has “become increasingly convinced that the reality-illusion theme was the dominant theme in modern
drama.” Abbott embarked on “what has proved to be a long and complex journey” of tracing this theme through the
last hundred years or so of modern drama.

Abbott begins the book with an appealing personal tone by sharing his own grappling with the illusion-reality issue. He tells
the story of his father’s stroke and subsequent illness, an experience that led him to Ernest Becker’s The Denial of
Death, which he said provided a frame for The Vital Lie. One of Abbott’s aims in writing the book was
“to write something that was critically competent but also personal, a book written by a human being for other human
beings to read.” He desired to “ask some questions in a tongue that any intelligent playgoer or reader of modern
drama could understand.”

In exploring this intriguing theme of modern drama, Abbott hopes to answer three questions. First, why should the reality-illusion theme
be so preeminent at this time? Second, has the way that playwrights have treated this theme changed significantly during the
last hundred years? Third, is the vision of reality presented by Albee, Pinter, and Genet fundamentally different from that of
Ibsen, Strindberg, and Shaw? Abbott wanted to explore “the relationship between art and life, between the dilemmas faced by the
heroes of a number of modern plays and the problems of real human beings.” The Vital Lie is available in
the student store for something over $25. Wow!
