Friday, April 14, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson: International News
By SUZANNE CRAYMER

SOVIET UNION: In Georgia, independence protests which caused the death of at least 18 people pose the biggest threat yet
to Mikhail Gorbachev’s reforms. On Monday, troops fired into the air to break up a general strike in the capital
of Tbilisi. The strike closed schools, mass transit, and some businesses. Along with sending Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze to
quell the unrest, the Kremlin authorized a proposal which did several things: impose a curfew on Tbilisi, ban all protests,
close the region to all foreigners, and made clear that “anti-Soviet” activity remains a crime.

NAMIBIA: United Nations peacekeepers monitored the pullout of the 1,900 nationalist guerrillas who had crossed the border from Angola. The
eight days represent the fiercest fighting in the 23-year war. The operation resulted in the death of 263 rebels and
27 security force soldiers. The guerrillas began entering South Africa on the day of the April 1 ceasefire.

FRANCE: A passenger plane crashed into a mountain near Valence on Monday, killing all 22 people aboard. Syrian and Druse
gunners fired rockets onto Christian beaches as a warning to two French vessels carrying relief shipments to Lebanon. The Syrian-backed
Moslem militia refused the French vessels access to two Christian ports.

Grant aims to reduce minority attrition
By SUZANNE CRAYMER and GIRISH GVALANI

Davidson College is developing a more progressive outlook toward its minority student population with an ambitious program in place this
year. The project will give deserving and needy black students a chance to fully enjoy opportunities which would normally not
be within their reach. Over a period of three years, Assistant Dean of Students Stone Bynum will supervise the distribution
of a $150,000 grant from the Pew Foundation to meet the program’s goals.

“Davidson, like most predominately white colleges, has a very high minority attrition rate,” said Bynum. “The school is not prepared
to take care of minority needs in a totally different environment,” he added. The Pew Grant will attempt to meet
these needs in a four-part plan which will aid students emotionally as well as financially.

A “Fund for Educational Equality” offers 20 awards each year, averaging $1,500 each. The awards enable students to take advantage
of Davidson extracurricular programs. “Davidson is a pretty wealthy school in terms of family income,” said Bynum. “A lot of
black family incomes are not as high. They are not often able to attend outside programs like other Davidson students.
Hopefully, this program will give them these advantages.” Some of the recipients’ plans include accepting internships away from home, holding
positions as research assistants, attending conference seminars, and traveling abroad. The Dana Advisory Committee, led by Merlyn Schuh, selects recipients
on the basis of both need and merit. Bynum will be accepting applications for next year in the fall.

Bynum is currently working toward the establishment of a program which will involve faculty members as mentors for minority students.
In addition, he intends to use the current system of student tutors to help minority students with both academic and
social problems. Throughout next year, Bynum will encourage minority students to become tutors for incoming freshmen. Part of the grant
will also be used to establish an A.C.E.S. group (Academic Career Enrichment for Students). The group will provide both academic
and social support for students coping with a new environment. Although only the “Fund for Educational Equality” and the student
tutoring program exist at the present time, Bynum soon hopes to make other programs available to Davidson minority students.

Greenpeace speaker keys Environmental Week
By JAY CHAUDHURI

Christopher Childs, a representative for Greenpeace, lectured on current environmental problems and Greenpeace activities last Thursday as the keynote speaker
for Environmental Week.Childs opened by saying that human beings do not survive by problem-solving alone. “What lies ahead for each
of us individuals and the planet is not fixing what is broke but focusing on what we need and want,”
he said. Current problems of the environment which may be remedied, according to Childs, include the “greenhouse effect,” industrial pollution
of the water supply, and overabundance of trash and pesticides. Childs’ personal recommendation in solving this dilemma is not necessarily
becoming a Greenpeace supporter, but rather taking resources around ourselves and making it work for our lives.

Childs then presented a slide show about past Greenpeace activities. “Greenpeace really started when someone damaged the planet and someone
asked him to stop,” he said. Greenpeace was formed in 1971 by Canadian and American activists concerned about the nuclear
arms race. That year, a group of people from British Columbia sailed to Amchitka Island in Alaska to protest U.S.
nuclear weapons testing. Although the group never reached Amchitka, said Childs, the amount of support they received in Vancouver was
overwhelming. Eventually, Amchitka was converted into a bird sanctuary.

In 1983, in 1986, and 1987, Greenpeace volunteers protested U.S. nuclear testing in Nevada, provoking international criticism which eventually resulted
in postponement of tests in 1986. Greenpeace has also addressed the endangered status of certain animals. As many as 40,000
to 50,000 whales were killed by 12 nations before Greenpeace intervened, said Childs. With the help of Greenpeace, the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) adopted an indefinite moratorium on all commercial whaling which began in 1986. However, three nations—Iceland, Japan, and
Norway—still do not adhere to this rule.

Another endangered species was the baby harp seal of Canada. In the mid-1970s, approximately 200,000 baby seals were killed. With
a forced ban by the European Economic Community (EEC) and Greenpeace, virtually no seals are slaughtered today, reported Childs. Childs
also discussed Greenpeace involvement with dolphins in Japan, sea turtles in the Caribbean, wolves in Alaska, and kangaroos in Australia.

Childs concluded his lecture by discussing the toxic pollution in the Great Lakes. This area is of particular importance because
more than 26 million people draw their drinking water from the Lakes. Pollution in this area has also threatened the
Mohawk Indians of New York. Childs began work with Greenpeace in 1987 while employed as a technician with a commercial
environmental testing laboratory. His previous experience includes volunteer environmental work with the Massachusetts Acid Rain Monitoring Project and the chairmanship
of the Acid Rain Task Force for the Appalachian Mountain Club. Childs has also toured the United States as a
performer with a one-man show on the life of Henry David Thoreau. In his years as a performer, he appeared
in principal roles on PBS’ American Playhouse and in Henry Fonda’s last film, the TV movie Summer Solstice.

HUSSEY, from page 1

program. They have displayed class in every respect. “Finally, I’m especially thankful and grateful to all of my current and
former players. They have always conducted themselves in a class manner, and in my mind, that makes them special. Their
loyalty, effort, and friendship will always be treasured, and my door is always open to them.”

The graduation rate of Hussey’s lettermen exceeded that of the student body and was close to 100%. Three members of
the 1988-89 freshman class were National Merit Scholarship finalists. Hussey also recruited and coached the college’s first and only Academic
All-American in Derek Rucker, who graduated in 1988. Hussey met the press at 11 a.m. today in Knobloch Tennis Center.
Excerpts are on page 3.

NEXT WEEK: LAST CHANCE!

SUBMIT YOUR BEST STUFF TO INSIDE ART OR LET IT ROT INSIDE YOU ALL SUMMER LONG! LET IT OUT! INSIDE
ART.
