sports

Basketball Wildcats lose heartbreaker to Miami of Ohio. 23rd loss on season is new school record

By LARRY DAGENHART

Wednesday night, in the second to last game in cozy Johnston Gym, the Wildcats played probably their best game of
the season in a 65-63 heartbreaking loss to Miami of Ohio. Davidson jumped out to a 21-11 lead sparked by
three 3-pointers by Paul Denmond, who went on to score a season-high 14 points. The Redskins crept back, however, by
an outstanding performance from Tim Stewart who scored 19 points in the first half, 15 of which came off 3-pointers.
Despite an Alan Hunter bomb from 40 feet, referee Lenny Wertz ruled that the buzzer had sounded before the ball
left Hunter’s hand. Miami led 37-34 at halftime.

Davidson and Miami matched each other basket for basket but by the five-minute mark, the ghost of missed shots plagued
the Wildcats as they only scored four points down the stretch. With :47 remaining, Mo Gray, who led Davidson scoring
with 19, was fouled by Jeff Scott as he knocked in a basket off the glass. Gray missed the ensuing
free throw, and Miami took the rebound down court. After running the clock down to :16, Miami called a timeout.
As the clock resumed, the Redskins fumbled the play, but the ball was saved from going out of bounds by
Tim Stewart. Stewart threw to Jeff Scott who was positioned under the basket for an easy two. Two seconds remained.
After two timeouts, Davidson tried a long desperation pass that ended up in the hands of Miami, ending the game
at 65-63 and bringing their record to 12-11.

In reference to Davidson’s final play, coach Hussey said, “Our idea was to get the ball to half court and
then call timeout, but it’s hard to score at that distance.” “We had a chance to win it,” Hussey continued.
“I thought they got an extremely lucky break.”

FOOTNOTES: Senior Andy Nilsson, the Wildcat mascot, joined the team on the bench rather than cheering on the sidelines this
week. Nilsson broke his leg at last Wednesday night’s game while performing the traditional rope stunt. As he swung from
the rope onto the court, Nilsson’s hands slid too far and he landed hard onto the floor. Nilsson will wear
a cast for four weeks. Miami’s victory marks Davidson’s 23rd loss—a new school record for the most losses in a
season.

A Johnston Gym memory

By LARRY DAGENHART

It was the only game Skip Brown would ever start for Davidson. The 1982-83 version of the Wildcat basketball team
had five seniors, four of whom started while Brown sat on the bench, until tonight. It was senior night, their
final home game in Johnston Gym. It was a cold Saturday night on February 19, 1983, and Davidson was geared
up for a crucial conference battle with UT-Chattanooga, who had that week entered the Top 20 at number 20. Johnston
Gym was jammed. The seniors were playing their final game; people were lined up upstairs behind the railing; people were
sitting along the sidelines and some, like myself, were crammed into a corner. A win tonight against nationally ranked Chattanooga
would give Davidson needed confidence for the upcoming Southern Conference tournament.

The student side was ready to go. As the Wildcats took the floor for their warm-up, the whole house rose
and clapped in unison to the fight song. There was electricity in that gym. As a follower of Davidson basketball,
I knew that Skip Brown rarely played; but this was senior night and Hussey gave him the start. Brown, 6'-11"
and lanky as could be, was the last starter introduced and the students, with whom Brown was a favorite, went
crazy. Yes, Brownwas getting his “token start” but that was not his attitude. Brown did not even jump center but
he was soon to be the star. As Davidson won the tap, it was like Chattanooga was afraid to guard
Brown. They left him alone at the top of the key and when he got the ball, he let it
fly from 15 feet—swish. Pandemonium. I had never heard Johnston Gym so loud. What amazed me even more was that
he canned two more from about the same place. He even got a tip-in after a missed shot. No one
could believe it. Brown, the eternal reserve, got eight big points in a crucial game. At the fourteen-minute mark, Brown
was taken out of the game to the loudest standing ovation the gym may have ever heard. I thought the
roof was going to cave in right there. From my spot in the corner on the floor, I saw UT-Chattanooga
beat Davidson 73-71 on a last-second 3-pointer in one of the most exciting basketball games I have ever seen. It
was an expected win for Chattanooga but a heartbreaking loss for Davidson. In a gym that has seen 11 undefeated
seasons, the Lefty Driesell era and even a 59-game winning streak from 1962-1971, Davidson’s game with Chattanooga will most likely
go unremembered. But I’ll bet Skip Brown won’t forget.

Due to an editor’s error last week, the wrong version of this story was printed. Conveniently enough, we also need
to fill some space this issue. Thus:

By HOLME OLTROGGE

The Davidson wrestling team soundly defeated Gardner Webb to finish the season in victory. The dual ended the string of
road trips which began January 14. On Wednesday night, February 8, three of Davidson’s wrestlers encountered Wilkes in Wilkesboro, NC.
Sophomores Pete Buss, Joe Binns, and Eric Farmer wrestled two matches each, but all came off the mat in humble
defeat. Saturday’s six-hour ride back from Atlanta seemed even longer as the Cats faced the Georgia Tech Yellowjackets. This time
freshman Chris Clark joined the other three on the trip. Clark and Buss wrestled one match each while Binns and
Farmer both encountered two grueling matches. As Binns and Clark conceded in agreement, “We got hammered.”

But light finally shed on the determined Davidson wrestlers last Wednesday night. They met Gardner-Webb in Boiling Springs and came
home victorious in five out of six matches. They not only defeated their opponents, they also embarrassed them. Captain Joe
Binns wrestled at the 142 and 150-pound weight classes. He won both matches with scores of 14-5 and 13-5. Binns
walked away with 14 out of 20 team takedowns. At 158 and 167, Chris Clark shut out one opponent with
six points and manhandled the other 17-3. Eric Farmer pinned his man at 190, but lost the second match in
the heavyweight class. Last Wednesday night’s victories gave the Cats the boost they were looking for all year long.

In retrospect, the wrestling team started with misfortune which amplified as the season progressed. An unusually large number of long-term
injuries spread throughout the lineup. Nerves were endangered from neck and back problems. Ligaments tore as a result of hyperextended
knees and stretched feet. Bones were broken from unaccustomed weights landing on them. Consequently, only four wrestlers lasted the whole
season. The decreasing number not only affected the morale of the team, but also made daily practices very difficult. Heavyweight
Eric Farmer usually had no one to work with. Practicing with lighter weight wrestlers meant he constantly had to hold
back and not go 100%. Conversely, a lightweight usually wrestled defensively, not being able to improve on his offensive moves.

Individually, each wrestler had a brighter outlook: Buss felt glad to have finished the season. Clark cited the same, “I
guess it was a major accomplishment to do so.” Binns emphasized the wrestlers who “stuck it out,” the type who
came to practice spitting blood along with the sweat. “You’ve got to hand it to them,” said junior Wade Heinrichs
who had one more week before his ankle cast could be removed.

Coach Tom Oddo ’85 had been checking out a few prospects to rebuild the wrestling team. The wrestlers said it
was difficult to put a team together when there was no manpower. With new recruits and a new wrestling room,
the team hoped to leave the injuries and the bad luck behind and work toward a more hopeful future.
