Thursday, January 26, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN—

Dear Editor:

Now entering a new semester in Davidson’s new apartments, I have had time to reminisce on the demise of one of our school's unique traditions, perimeter housing. For a school which takes so much pride in its tradition, it seems we are not traditional enough to resist the temptations of apparent progress. Perimeter housing was an aspect of Davidson that was different, that we could point to with pride as symbolic of the closeness of our community and the individuality of our students. Now, living in a new apartment overlooking a three-hole golf course (soon to be joined by another 18-hole golf course, complete with 712 “low-density, high-quality” buildings), I begin to think that we have sacrificed character for convenience, that we have been bought out by a new couch and a refrigerator. Like our neighbors, we have been seduced by the serviceable sterility of an apartment which has been tellingly described by more than one student as “like a condominium.”

It seems many Davidson students have become intoxicated by the relative comforts of these three prefabricated homes, unaware of what has been sacrificed. We may soon possess the luxuries of such progress, the shopping malls and restaurants which have been kept—so far—comfortably at a distance, and wake up one morning to find the town and college we once knew transformed. It may be too late to save perimeter housing. Martin Manor’s days are certainly numbered. But if we must lose this unique aspect of Davidson College for future generations, let us hope we will not surrender the other remains of our past with such nonchalance. Let us remember that the luxuries we treasure cannot be bought without a price. In the future, let us be more dogged in our stubbornness, less self-indulgent in our appetites, and ever mindful of the demands and responsibilities of our cherished tradition.

Respectfully,
David Lamar Blount

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

HOPE, from page 5

So Davidson fans, go out and help the team try to turn it around. The team has 12 more games left and six of them are at home. If they can turn it around during these games, they can build upon this late-season success next year and have a successful season. 

Drobnitch and Freeman have provided good defense and rebounding. Hopefully, with time both Drobnitch and Freeman will be able to provide consistent offense to a team that has had trouble putting points on the board. Although the freshmen are playing against older and more experienced players most of the time, they are getting good experience for next year. If all five of the freshmen improve during the remainder of this season and off-season, they will be ready to contribute a lot next season along with six seniors and three juniors.

Finally, history is on Davidson’s side. In the 1984-85 season, the last time the team only had one senior, the team struggled through a 10-20 season. The next year, however, the squad went 20-11 and defeated UT-Chattanooga 42-40 in the Southern Conference Tournament on Gerry Born’s last-second shot. This victory led to an NCAA tournament appearance.

SCROMP, from page 5

Breakfasts, etc.) and Patterson Court social disappointments, you and your date can choose from the following:
1. There are a number of playgrounds in the area. Go play in one of them.
2. The weight room has several new pieces of equipment. Go look at them and giggle at the...synonyms of dirty words. The evening might take a somnifacient turn. If it does, don’t struggle against it. Go to bed and save some money. And try to stay in good health over the weekend; it will be over soon anyway.

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines:
+ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
+ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
+ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.
+ All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
+ All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names printed with their work.
+ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
+ Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
+ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to our letters printed dealing with the same topic.
+ All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following information: the author’s home address and state, graduating year and major field of study (or profession).

The library has a new thesaurus.

Pop Films

The January Man

In a somewhat unconstructive attempt to put off dealing with another newspaper deadline, I allowed myself to be persuaded to go see a movie while articles for this week’s paper trickled in. It was such a painful experience that I am compelled to take this space to warn the college community against repeating my mistake. Also, there is no football news this week to base any sort of opinion on.

I and three of my friends jumped in a car and took off for University Place before checking to see what movies were playing there. Since there are six theaters, we reasoned, there must be a decent film playing. The movie we selected was The January Man. I dimly remembered from somewhere that it starred Kevin Kline (Paden in Silverado) and Susan Sarandon (very hot in Bull Durham). It is a movie about an ex-New York City policeman turned fireman when he is forced to take the fall for his brother the police commissioner. He is of course a brilliant sleuth, and is brought back to the force to solve the serial killing of eleven young women. Promising actors, not unpromising plot.

The reason for this editorial is, my friends, that the promise this movie had completely evaporated within the first few frames and never returned. Five minutes into the film, I remembered with a jolt where I had heard of this movie before: Rolling Stone, in an unusually vacuous interview with Sarandon that focused primarily on her breasts. The January Man is a profoundly bad film of the type that makes you walk out of the theater speechless for a long moment, then bursting with the myriad loose details, awkward scenes and stupid plot twists the movie contains. Then you’re speechless again, because the flood of distressing items is so overwhelming that you can’t think of what to say next; eight or nine things have urgent priority.

Kline and Sarandon have played very smart, witty characters in smart, witty movies in the past. They are only paying the rent with this film, and that is a very ugly thing to do with moviegoers’ time and money.