The Davids

Convocation awards, page 4!

nian

Volume LXXXI, Number 1

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Monday, April 24, 1989

Basketball team cited in NCAA practice

search is underway for new coach

By JENNIFER HOFFMAN
Basketball continues to make news at Davidson long after the final game of the season. Last week Bobby Hussey announced his resignation as the team’s head coach. On Saturday, The Charlotte Observer reported that the team committed an NCAA violation last fall when it participated in practices three days prior to the period allowed by the NCAA.

The Wildcats reportedly met in Johnston Gym early in the morning on October 12 with Hussey. According to junior Jeff Harris, “We weren’t going through a practice per se, but NCAA rules state that you can’t be with a ball going through plays.” Players say Assistant Athletic Director Bob Price was at the gym at the time and reported the violations.

The College sanctioned Hussey to cancel three practices during the regular season. Davidson attorney Adrian Wilson told The Observer that the NCAA had been notified and that he had received a letter in return from the NCAA saying that the college had taken the proper steps and no NCAA sanctions would be necessary.

Most players say they were unaware of the offense. “Personally, I didn’t know what constituted a legal practice,” Alan Hunter said. According to players, President Kuykendall sent a letter to the team explaining why the practices had been cancelled. Team members confirmed The Observer's report that Hussey made no formal apology to the team nor gave an explanation for the practices which had been called off.

Hussey cited philosophical differences between Athletic Director Kit Morris and himself as his primary motive to resign. He did not mention the NCAA violation in reference to his decision. Morris would not comment on whether the violations were a factor involved.

Morris was not present at Hussey’s press conference last Friday. Tom Sorenson’s article in The Observer attributes his absence to a golf game; “On Friday, one of the more important days in Davidson sports history, Athletic Director Kit Morris leaves his office to play golf.”

Morris, however, called Sorenson’s attack “a cheap shot.”

“I spent last Friday morning in the airport in Charlotte speaking with a prospective basketball coach,” he explained. “I did spend 10 minutes at the putting green in Covington instead of eating lunch; that was the extent of my golf game,” he said.

In reference to the NCAA violation, Morris stressed that there have been “no changes in policy. We still believe in upholding NCAA regulations in letter and spirit.” Although the NCAA classifies infractions in various degrees of severity, Morris stated, “We tend to view any violation of rules as a serious violation.” He said that there have been very few violations at Davidson.

When asked about Davidson’s present standing with the NCAA, Morris said, “I would like to reiterate President Kuykendall’s comment in The Observer that we are squared away with the NCAA to our knowledge.”

Morris says that the search for Davidson’s next coach is well under way.

See NCAA, page 2

Photo courtesy of Sports Information.

By MARGARET
Junior Boyd Miller and sophomore Helen Bell were involved in a hold-up at a Chinese restaurant in Charlotte last Friday evening. The robbery they witnessed at the Dragon Inn on Independence Blvd. is believed to be one in a series of five robberies of Chinese restaurants in the Charlotte area during the past year.

Miller and Bell entered the restaurant around 10:30 p.m. and sat down at a booth. There were only two couples in the restaurant at the time.

See HOLD UP, page 2