TRUMP HOLDS VISION OF NASCAR, CASINO!

By ACE O. SPADES

Plans for a new racetrack and casino are in the making for the Davidson area. Donald Trump, the new owner
of Davidson College, is heading the push for a new NASCAR track and a gambling establishment much like Trump’s Palace.

“This place is begging for some entertainment,” said Trump. “Lake Norman is already a vacation spot. I’m just going to
spice it up a little bit.”

“Everyone knows that North Carolinians love car races. The Trump 600 is going to be bigger than the Coca-Cola 600.
More prizes, more money, more everything. I like thinking big. If you’re going to think anyway, you might as well
think big,” Trump said at a press conference yesterday afternoon.

Trump plans to connect the track and the casino with a huge hotel. The casino will be located on the
first three floors of the hotel and the race track will be a short walk away. Many rooms of the
hotel will overlook the track.

“People will be able to watch the race as they eat their dinner provided by room service,” said Trump. “It
will be the ultimate in extravagance for NASCAR fans.”

Transportation to and from the track will be provided by authentic NASCAR vehicles for those who really want to get
into the spirit of things.

“I expect lots of money to be flowing in and out of this establishment,” said Trump. Minimum bets on the
NASCAR races will be $100. Trump commented, “This kind of gambling is not for the feeble-hearted. It’s going to be
big. I like to think big.”

“Local government agencies have been very cooperative with zoning problems, and such,” Trump said. “I like those people, I like
them a lot.”

According to Davidson policy, students would be able to go to the races and the casino free of charge. “I
want the students to get into this,” said Trump. “It'll give them a taste of real life. I want my
graduates to know what real life is like.”

Scheduled completion of the hotel and track is the spring of ‘90. “And I mean it!” Trump emphasized. “I’m not
going to put up with these B.S. delays the current administration has put up with. If construction starts to lag
I’m going to be kicking a few tails!” He added that twenty-four-hour work schedules would be used if necessary in
completing the building on time.

“The place is completely full for the first three months after completion. I’m not going to be refunding anyone any
money. I hate refunding money,” said Trump.

THE DAVIDSONION — May 3, 1989
