Thursday, February 23, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FORUM, from page 1

Davidson College.’ No one believes you until they see this ID. That’s ridiculous to me. There’s no excuse in my mind for that type of problem.”

Miller “left town” in the fall of 1985 when the Ku Klux Klan marched through downtown Davidson. “I guess it’s so easy to forget that there are racial problems here because you’re studying all the time—until it’s put in your face.”

Black students also asserted that subtle racism persists in their rapport with whites. According to Bynum, “Needless to say, a large percentage of our white student population has never had to greatly interact with a black person on a meaningful level, so needless to say, unfortunately our students are clinging to a lot of stereotypes which again is only natural that they would be there.”

According to professor of philosophy Julio Ramirez, the minority has a dual role as student and educator. “There will be stereotypes—therefore it requires a breaking of barriers.”

Bruce resents being asked if he is an athlete upon first meeting someone. One black female remembers when a hallmate asked to use her white “roommate’s” microwave, assuming that it belonged to the latter. The black student graciously replied, “Yes, you can use my microwave.”

What about qualifications? Joy Gray, a freshman from Long Island, NY, says she does not feel as if she has to prove her merits: “I walk out of my room with my head up high because I know that I deserve to be here as well as anyone else.”

At the same time, some white students stated that they were unaware of the sensitivities which blacks perceive, and as far as making friends outside of the classroom was concerned, that they did not know how to approach black people. As one student in the documentary stated, “How can I be friendly without offending someone? I have a fear of saying something which may be perceived as prejudiced.”

Senior Maureen Harris responded to the statement of how to meet blacks. “I don’t want someone to make friends with me because I’m black. I want them to like me because of who I am—Maureen Harris—and what I’ve done. Just respect me.”

Donna Peters, a senior from Birmingham, AL, stated that she felt she had not “been granted the opportunity” to get to know black students, adding that the forum exposed her to experiences of which she was unaware.

Several black students also discussed their reasons for not belonging to eating houses, citing discomfort as the primary reason. Yet there were other experiences. Although sophomore Ingrid Page is a former member of a girl’s eating house, she stated, “I still love the people at Spencer.”

Page says she is able to economize by eating selective meals at the Commons and the Union Cafe. A non-drinker, she strongly believes that her money should not support the purchase of beer, which the majority of the Patterson Court serves.

Jana Player, a freshman, is a member of Spencer eating house and feels “very welcome” there. “Each student has their proper perspective,” she stated. Responding to one student who said that they did not feel welcome, she asserted that generalizations cannot be made of the experiences of all black students.

Other students expressed their discomfort at Court parties, where the majority of time is spent consuming excessive amounts of alcohol, and where they knew very few people.

The discussion continued as a white student asked Bruce if he knew what Davidson would be like before enrolling. Said Bruce, “When I came here I didn’t really come in contact with white students.” His hosts were black.

Parker responded by saying that the mistake of Bruce’s visit was the format—the now extinct Minority Weekend. All accepted students are now invited to visit the college on SGA weekend in order to perceive Davidson exactly as it is.

The forum ended, although groups of black and white students lingered to ask each other—“Well, what do I do when someone (usually drunk) tells a racist joke?”—“I feel as if all eyes are on me when I’m the only black in the class.”—“Whites don’t talk about black heritage. It seems as if blacks are separating themselves when they say it’s so important.”

---

RESTAURANT

Serving the best in traditional Southern foods—The Best in Prime Rib, Chicken Grills, Steaks, Hamburgers and Deli

Weekdays 5-6:30
$4.75

Baked Pork Chops, green beans and candied yams

Grilled Chicken over rice with June peas and buttered carrots

Lunch
Tuesday-Friday
11-2

Dinner
Tuesday-Saturday
5-9

To Go Orders

Sundays
12-2, 5-9
Closed Monday
761 N. Main St.,
Mooresville, NC
704/663-7322
Come join in the Fellowship of the Rafters

---

EMERGENCY!

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Service is a student organization operating 24 hours per day, every day during the school year. We are staffed and operated by state-certified Emergency Medical Technicians. No emergency is too big or small!