Congratulations! Fall convocation awards presented

The Goodwin-Exxon Awards:
James Raymond Clugston
Allan Hugh Cole
James Reece Combs
Marion Boyd Gillespie
Therese Marie Gyauch
Leigh Baird Hall
Warren Tracy Hankins
William Franklin Helms, III
Douglas Alan Hicks
Lisa Ann Howe
Ismat Syed Husain
Joy Danielle Gray ’92
Vanessa Lynn James
Molly Lynne Graver ’91
Katherine Janice Janiec
Andrew Justin Morgan ’90
Lucia Livingston Kendall
Krista Lee Kirk
Katherine Carpenter Kraemer
Andrew Justin Morgan

Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards:
MS4 - Catherine Chandler Walters
MS3 - Robert Bentley Lim ’91
MS2 - John Esselstyn Howell ’92
Ramona Oliver

The Alumni Association Freshman Award:
William Steward Rawson
John Michael Roach
David Christopher Campbell
Harry Grant Schiavi
Alice Catherine Hicks
William Turner Scouten
Alice Elizabeth Shuffield
Donald Joel Snell, Jr.
Susan Michelle Peppers
Thaddeus Jon Stidham
Matthew Ashley Terrell

Omicron Delta Kappa Recognition:
Peter Alexander Bynum
Charles Andrew Tysinger
Margaret McQueen Carroll
Robert Alexander Vest
James Reece Combs
William Byrd Warlick

Plans for Davidson’s “quiet resolve”
By ANDY TYSINGER and MARY BEAL

As homecoming weekend quickly approaches, so does the dedication of Davidson’s new athletic facility, the Baker Sports Complex. We have watched it grow into a magnificent building and patiently put up with closed roads and other inconveniences over the past year in anticipation of its opening. Now we will be able to partake of the fruits of all this work in one of the South’s finest athletic complexes.

What many students don’t realize is that the dedication of the sports complex is the kickoff of The Campaign for Davidson, the College’s ambitious drive to raise $150 million. As it moves into the 1990s, Davidson faces major challenges. It must become even more global and multicultural in its approach to undergraduate education. The College has to immerse its students in new technologies that will have a great impact on life and learning in the next century. Davidson must find the determination to confront these challenges while remaining true to the values and traditions that have made the College what it is today.

The Campaign for Davidson seeks $150 million to support teaching, to enrich student life, to strengthen academic resources, to improve facilities, and to strengthen the Annual Fund. Of the $150 million, $15 million is earmarked for annual operating expenses, $90 million will go toward the endowment, and $45 million is designated for capital projects (please note the figures below).

This money is crucial to Davidson’s move into the 1990s. Students should be aware that the Campaign is not only...An important part of this year, but it will be a top priority for the College over the next several years. The major event of the kickoff will be a black-tie dinner and dance for donors, faculty, and trustees in the Baker Complex on Friday, November 10. Other activities will also be taking place Saturday, including a torch run from Charlotte to Davidson that will begin the dedication ceremonies of the Baker Complex. The Student Campaign Committee is not only trying to inform the student body about the Campaign, but it is also enlisting the help of as many students as possible. The committee needs volunteers throughout the evening Friday and for other activities on Saturday. Student involvement is essential for the success of the kickoff and volunteers can certainly work at times that would not interfere with previous homecoming plans. Those interested should contact Liz Moodie at -2411, Katherine Kraemer at -6646, or Thurston Cooke at -6400. We need to support the Campaign, since as Davidson students we will be the ones ultimately benefiting the most.

Marion Boyd Gillespie
Sarah Elizabeth Whitesell
Molly Lynne Graver
Mar Adair Woodall
Joshua McKinnon Hickman
Professor of the Year Awards by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education:
Kent Williams Kercher
Kristi Elaine Kessler
Krista Lee Kirk
Mary Katherine Myatt
Harry Grant Schiavi
Julio Jesus Ramirez
Thomas Koodathumannil Thomas
Thomas Jefferson Award: presented annually to a faculty member who by personal influence, teaching, writing, and scholarship promotes the high ideals of Jefferson and who has given generously and well beyond the call of duty.
Robert Milam Austell
Brian Henry Asbill
Tinsley Porter Bates
Mary Gretchen Beal
James Edward Bradley
Louis Ortmayer

The SGA hopes to continue working with the faculty in reaching two goals. “The short-term goal,” says Helms, “is to go back to seven-day exam periods, and the long-range goal is to shorten the length of the semester.” Nelson admits that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to create a calendar that pleases all the students and faculty because everyone has their own idea of what best suits their calendar: “It’s just like being in Congress. Everybody has their own little bit to defend.”

The calendar reduces the exam period to six, instead of seven days. According to Helms, the SGA unanimously recommended that exams be kept at seven days because “it is asking too much of Davidson students. They are hard workers, but five exams in six days is unreasonable.”

Hot news tips, messages, complaints? We're waiting to hear from you. Call us at (704) 892-2148 or write to Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.

The Campaign for Davidson
Faculty Endowment $40,000,000
Professorships, compensation, professional opportunities
Student Endowment $25,000,000
Scholarships and student programs
Academic Resources Endowment $25,000,000
International education, computers, library improvements, academic programs
Capital Improvements $45,000,000
Academic buildings and renovation, Baker Sports Complex, College Union, residence halls, campus facilities
Annual Fund $15,000,000
$150,000,000