Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Wednesday, October 25, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

___

Letters

Poor lighting invites crime

Dear Editor:

I would like to take this opportunity to express my concern for an issue that directly hinders the basic security
of Davidson's beautiful campus: POOR LIGHTING. If you have ever ventured out of your dorm after the sun has retreated
over the horizon you are bound to know what I’m talking about. There are spots about campus where you can
literally not see ten feet in front of you. Examples of these “black holes” include the courtyard between Cannon and
Watts and the lawn between Belk and the Commons. A rape could easily occur 15 yards from the Police Hut
and no one would see. The walk home from the computer center at 1 a.m. is not a safe one
for an unescorted coed. Who knows what lurks in the bushes along this substandardly lit path? All of these areas
are sparsely traveled at night in the first place, but the fact that you can’t see where you are going
or who is coming toward you is a cry for something to happen.

Myth: “Davidson's such a beautiful place that we don’t have to worry about being attacked.” It’s true that I can’t
think of a Davidson student who would consider such a thing, but we do have lawbreakers in our immediate community
and they have just as easy access to Davidson property as the rest of us. Think about it. Last Friday
night a woman was brutally murdered only two blocks from campus. Last year I know of at least one Davidson
girl who was attacked while jogging on city streets. You can rarely pick up The Davidsonian without reading of stolen
bicycles and car break-ins. We are not as safe as we think.

The parking lots have been handled very well and are probably the best-lit areas on campus. Belk and satellite parking
are extremely well lit with bright mercury lamps on tall poles, but this is not where students routinely pass. Where
are our priorities? You walk around campus and see hundreds of aesthetically pleasing but functionally worthless lamp posts burning little
200-watt bulbs. Sure they look good, but who cares if they don’t create a safe place for us to go
about our normal routines after dark? We need to place more of these powerful mercury lamps at least along all
of the vital thoroughfares around campus. If I were a prospective Davidson parent, I would have serious reservations about sending
my 18-year-old daughter to Davidson for this reason alone.

Sincerely,
Bennett S. Cardwell

---

Misleading titles

Dear Editors,

I would like to clarify a point about the opinions article I wrote last week. An editor wrote the headline
“Let’s be careful to say what we mean - guys - Davidson women are not girls.” The editor got the
gist of the article, but the article was aimed at all Davidsonian readers, not just guys. I am aware that
female college students say some things as often as males do. I don’t want readers to think that I am
blaming the problem only on men, or think that I am a man-hating, hairy-legged, scowling, crew-cutted feminist armed with a
submachine gun to blast holes through any man who innocently opens a door for me. I’m just a feminist. And
for the record, I like men just fine (some men more than others, of course).

Sincerely,
Lucia Kendall

---

Men and women in sports

Dear Sports Editor,

In your coverage of soccer, there is an archaic usage on the women’s side: “Lady Wildcats” goes with “Gentlemen Wildcats”
as an equivalent term. Such commentary on one’s breeding or deportment is not employed in the context of athletics, with
the possible exception of jousting. “Men's Soccer” and “Women’s Soccer” are equivalent terms and the names “Wildcats” or “Davidson Soccer”
suffice.

---Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Wildcats is a great term for any Davidson athlete. Why ‘Gentlemen’?

Diane R. Head Soccer Coach

Fans Need to cheer, not insult.

To the Editors:

This letter is in response to the letter delivered to us from Bob McKillop, our new head basketball coach. His
letter was written to gain student support for our men’s basketball program, and to inform us of when and how
to attend the games. First of all, I commend him on his enthusiasm and desire to recruit loyal fans! I
agree, we should support all our athletic programs. In fact, the athletes deserve that respect.

However, I disagree strongly with McKillop’s suggestion that we try to emulate the fans at Duke University. I wish no
such fate for myself or other Davidson students and fans. While Duke has very supportive and enthusiastic fans, they have
been repeatedly referred to as “animals” and collectively, “a zoo.” With great fervor, they insult opposing teams and individual players,
as well as their fans. They applaud raucously when opposing players foul out or miss shots. Surely we can do
better.

McKillop states that he feels “very fortunate to be part of an institution where a commitment to excellence permeates every
aspect of campus life.” Let’s show him that excellence by supporting our team with our attendance and enthusiasm for our
team, not scorn for others.

Sincerely,
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

---

Who?

All convocation is a time for recognizing achievements. Davidson has traditionally understated individual student accomplishments during convocations and the graduation
ceremony, choosing instead to emphasize the achievement of every senior. Such an approach supports a belief that every Davidson education
should incorporate aspects of leadership, service, and extracurricular activities. Some individual awards, however, are presented to a few students of
unusual achievement. One of the five student awards that has been included in this ceremony is the Who’s Who Among
Students in American Universities and Colleges. This award was designed to recognize the talents and accomplishments of students who are
involved and who are leaders. While academics are one component of the criteria for selection, the award is designed to
also identify students who fall short of the top 35 percent of the class and are therefore not eligible for
Omicron Delta Kappa.

But who were the people chosen for this award this year? Although the names of the 47 winners were printed
in the program and Dean Terry asked the recipients to stand en masse, he chose not to read the names.
Such a process of recognition raises the question of the award’s significance. The selection process of sending out a list
of the senior class to 60 or more students and faculty with the instructions to choose 25 names also smacks
of a contest based on popularity rather than merit. Under this process, the elected senior class president was not selected
for this leadership award. Who’s Who may be an important award. But if Davidson decides that it is, it must
be committed to that decision and treat the award as more than a semi-important honor. If Who’s Who is worth
including and mentioning in the convocation ceremony, it should also be worth developing a stronger selection process and criteria. And
above all, it should merit reading all 47 names during the program to give the winners their moment of recognition.

-jlh
