HOLLAND LURED TO TRUMP TRAP!

By PROF. E. C.

The furious rumors of the last few weeks were confirmed early this week. Yes, Trump University, there is a Santa
Claus, and he’s bringing us Terry Holland!

One of the two “glory coaches” of Davidson’s storied basketball past, Holland was nastily snatched away by the University of
Virginia several years ago. But now he’s ready to return as the new athletic director and head basketball coach for
Trump University.

“I think the new Sports Complex is just so pretty,” said Holland’s wife, reached at their home in Charlottesv... uh,
Charlest... uh, Charlo... ah, Virginia earlier this morning. “All of those long-haired, sweaty, tanned gorgeous workers really turned me on.
I’m sure that [the complex] was a factor in Terry’s decision as well.”

In a bizarre deal involving money and stomach holes...

“The fact that I have a hole in my stomach is one factor,” said Holland. “I just wanted to come
back to a situation where there is not so much pressure and controversy associated with the Athletic Department.”

Holland’s recent ulcer problems have sparked concern that the flow of leaks from the athletic department may not cease, but
Holland said his condition is under control.

He would not comment on the recent purchase of Davidson by Donald Trump, but did say he was expecting a
huge salary increase. “I think in a few years you’ll see Trump University right up there in the top ten,”
he claimed.

Asked whether he would be able to recruit as well at a small Southern, liberal arts college, Holland replied, “It’s
actually the other way around. Ralph Sampson was an okay player, and Richard Morgan is decent, but I just haven’t
had the calibre of players at Virginia that I had at ...” AHHHHH!!!!

TOO INCREDIBLE: Wait a minute! NOTE TO EDITORS: I'm sorry, but I just can’t keep this up. We’ve got some
pretty damned far-fetched stories in here, but this is just too much. A spoof issue is one thing, and it’s
a good idea, but this is ridiculous. Nobody is going to be fooled in the least by this story. Print
this big, idiotic piece of crap if you want, but don't expect anyone to read it. I asked Mr. Trump
first, and he said, “I like thinking big. If you're going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think
big.”

Former A.D. changed for life

By HOL INONE

Athletic Director Christopher B. “I taut I saw a Puddy-tat” Morris resigned when he learned of Donald Trump’s hostile takeover.

Morris cited “philosophical differences” between himself and the school’s new owner as the motivating force behind his decision. He admitted,
however, that the chance to hit the PGA tour had a slight influence on his choice.

“It’s time to take my clubs elsewhere,” said Morris with only a slight tinge of regret.

Leading athletic-directors-turned-pro-golfers expert San D. Pit predicts that Morris would have a successful career. “I would have to predict that
Morris will have a successful career,” he said.

Morris wished his successor, Terry Holland, the best of luck next year. “But this sure ain’t the place to get
relief from ulcers,” he added.

Kit Morris, relaxed and relieved PGA golfer!
