22

April 1989 *&*&* THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75th Anniversary Issue

You won’t see him around anymore. Davidson date rape victim speaks out.

See p. 7.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXIII, Number 7

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, 10 December 1982

Spencer resigns

Surprise Announcement at Faculty Meeting

By JEFFREY MANN ’84

College President Samuel R. Spencer, 63, announced Tuesday that he is retiring as president effective 1 July 1983. Spencer will
become president of the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges (VFIC), a fund-raising group for 14 private colleges in Virginia.

Spencer announced his decision in letters to the Board of Trustees, student leaders, and an announcement at the end of
the regular monthly faculty meeting. “Everyone was very surprised,” said Prof. Everett Jacobus.

“[This opportunity will] allow me the opportunity to continue to work and earn past Davidson’s ‘normal retirement age,” Spencer said.
The Trustee By-laws set the normal retirement age at 65, with possible extension to 70.

Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T.C. Price Zimmermann said of Dr. Spencer, “He introduced changes
of far-reaching magnitude and built an immeasurably stronger academic program. I think people will look back and see him as
one of the greatest presidents in the history of the College.”

Spencer would not speculate as to his successor, saying it is a Trustee decision. He does not anticipate any changes
in the other officers of the College. “I would certainly hope that the staff will remain intact,” he said.

The Board of Trustees will meet in a special session at Davidson on Friday, 7 January to meet with students,
administration and staff, and the faculty to initiate the search process, according to Board Chairman Fred Stair. “We think he’s
doing a stellar job as president and are saddened by his leaving,” Stair said.

Stair would not speculate on what type of person the Trustees would be looking for, or whether he or she
might come from within the College. “We want to talk to the students and staff first [at the 7 January
meeting] before we decide what we’re looking for,” he said.

The Trustee By-laws state, “The Trustees shall elect a President of the College . . . who is a loyal
and active churchman, giving evidence by his life of the strengths of his Christian faith and commitment. Such faith and
commitment will be appropriately expressed by his affiliation with the Presbyterian Church in the United States and his active participation
in the life of the College Church.”

In his letter to the Trustees, Spencer said, “I have been seriously concerned about the effect on The College of
an extended lame-duck period as I approach sixty-five. For that reason I have deliberately tried to keep uncertain the date
of my departure, hoping to leave before expected to do so.” He ordinarily would have retired after the next school
year.

The Lynchburg-based VFIC is “one of 40 state foundations set up to raise money for its member colleges,” Spencer said.
The thirty-year-old group raises approximately $2 million a year for its member institutions, mostly from corporations, but also foundations and
individuals. Spencer has agreed to at least a four-year term and expects the office to move to Richmond. Davidson does
not belong to the corresponding North Carolina foundation.

“So much of my life has been centered here it will really be a wrench to leave,” Spencer said. “Though
I could not leave Davidson without keen per-

(Continued on page 11)

By DUNCAN FRASER ’86

The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation has given Davidson College a $250,000 grant for developing curriculum changes reflecting computer technology’s impact
on the liberal arts education. The grant will enable about 55 Davidson professors to study the effect of modern technology
on their disciplines.

Samuel Reid Spencer Jr.

D.C. gets $250,000

To promote technological literacy

from Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte will also participate in applied mathematics training and technology symposia financed by the
grant. College President Sam Spencer said the grant is “more important than just money as it represents a capstone of
Da-

(Continued on page 11)
