Sylvia thought she smelled something burning.

When she tried to remember, she realized that she was living in the age of tomorrow's fashions today.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Wednesday during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Due to a big MAC attack, however, we have been publishing when we can. We have been without our SE/30 since the beginning of the year. Physician Lee Norris has been performing all kinds of miracles, but so far nothing seems to work for any extended period of time. Please address get well cards and correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Unsigned editorials are the responsibility of the Editors. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Assistant Features Editor: Trent Stevens.
Assistant Opinions Editor: Ingrid Page.

News Staff: Beth Brown, Peter Bynum, Margaret Carroll, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Lisa Jackson, Delia Johnson, Tom Koonce, George Lafaye, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Joe Mavis, Walter Price, Mary Russ, Rafael Sanchez-Aballi, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Jennifer Sieck, Taylor Smith, William Urban, Susannah Wellford, Jennifer Whittington, Clay Wright, Molly Young.
Features Staff: Curt Bickers, Lee Bushkell, David Coarsey, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Liz Davidson, John Earles, Matt Goad, Elizabeth Howe, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Jennifer Sieck, Anjali Sharma, Adam Smith, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Luise Weinrich, Jennifer Whittington.
Sports Staff: Bruce Balestier, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Giggy Maxwell, Mary Faith Mount, Tracy-Lynn Perez, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson, Spider Wormuth.
Photography Staff: Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Nancy Green, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Jane Mount, Bonita Paysour, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.
Production Staff: Marc Castellani, Janet Delery, Peter Fisher, Erika Fritz.
Staff Artists: Reese Boyd, J.W. Mullis.
Circulation Staff: Joy Gray, Moreland Smith, Ginnie White.

Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Phil Prescott, Shannon O’Shields.

FAT RIG,
LIVE LONG AND PROSPER.

PART-TIME JOB; PART-TIME PAY.

At Domino's Pizza®

Domino's Pizza® pays some of the best bucks in the business. Earn up to $10.00 an hour as a pizza delivery person. Part-time positions and flexible hours available. Call 896-8007 and cash in on your driving skills.

Equal Opportunity Employer.
©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Opt for optional S.A.T.

Davidson made a philosophical judgement on Scholastic Aptitude Test scores years ago when it decided to reduce their importance as part of the application package. A decision now to make S.A.T. scores optional would be little more than a natural extension of that belief.

Prospectives are told that because Davidson is a school that seeks well-rounded, diverse students who are willing to go against convention, S.A.T. or equivalent A.C.T. scores are considered a minor, though still mandatory, part of the application. The question now is whether the admissions office believes this philosophy strongly enough to make its own unconventional choice.

The main attraction of S.A.T. scores is that it provides a quick and dirty statistic for immediate comparison. This appeals to the school admissions team, as well as to prospectives and their parents. The extra number on an application helps the school limit the pool of applicants. Many people also consider S.A.T. scores when determining a school’s level of competitiveness--just ask Barron’s. Davidson even publishes median S.A.T. scores in its brochures profiling the current freshman class.

The message Davidson currently sends out to prospectives is that, while we say we don’t really care about your S.A.T. scores, you'd better get a 1270 if you want to be average here. Considering that most applicants have spent their high school years trying to stand out from the just average, the pressure to take and retake the standardized tests is still extremely great.

The college already acknowledges that S.A.T. scores are not a good determination of college performance. When you think about how many standardized tests a student has once he or she gets to Davidson, it’s no wonder.

The present proposal before the Advisory Council for Admissions and Financial Aid would not eliminate test scores, but would instead give Davidson applicants the choice of submitting Achievement Test scores which usually follow an essay format rather than S.A.T. scores.

Students who did well on the S.A.T. will continue to submit their scores. Students who do better on essay-based tests, however, will not be punished under the new proposal.

The council needs to make a decision quickly: Based on the desire of the college to attract a wide pool of applicants, the only fair decision is to give applicants the option of deciding which test scores they wish to submit. The prospective members of the class of 1994 should have this option.

Can We Help?
- study skills
- time management
- stress management
- sexuality
- family issues
- relationships
- cross cultural counseling
- weight control
- career counseling
- alcohol & drug abuse

Student Counseling Center
08 Union Basement Ext. 2451
Amelia Dockery, Ph.D. Campbell Peery, M.A.
Tom Plott, Ph.D. David Staton, Ph.D.
Virginia Sykes, M.Ed. DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.
Christine Davidson, Secretary