Wednesday, November 1, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Response to On the sports front

Dear Editors,

I am totally amazed! In what John Burns called a response to my latest article, he argued against things I
never said. I am completely dumbfounded about how he could have read what I wrote and think that I said
things that simply are not anywhere in my article. Maybe he can get away with writing about something he’s never
looked at for Humes papers, but I would like to set the record straight as far as the slander against
my writing is concerned.

This is not a matter of misinterpretation. Anyone who still has a copy of the issue with my article in
it (The Davidsonian, Oct. 19) is welcome to go back and look at what I actually said. For those of
you who, like Mr. Burns, did not read it, I will provide a quick summary: my subject was that female
college students should be called “women,” not “girls,” because they are not children. If Mr. Burns disagrees with this premise,
I can handle that. What he says is, “Is it really desirable for us to have a sexually homogeneous society?...I
would much rather live in a world where women and men knew that they were different and treated each other
as such.” Believe me, John, I know that women and men are different, so you don’t have to explain that
little matter to me. I said nothing about a sexually homogeneous society. I said nothing about treating women as if
they were men. I said nothing about calling women “men.” All I said was that women should be called “women.”

Later in my article I discussed why calling adults “boys” and “girls” is demeaning. Since this touches on a sensitive
topic, I will have to quote the entire paragraph from my article, emphasizing those parts Mr. Burns seems to have
missed:

My third reason [for calling women girls] is that women too often are treated like children. Most of the time
people have no idea that they are participating in this subtle discrimination. Fortunately, changing the way you use words is
a very simple way of refusing to participate in it. As an example of this phenomenon, we can look at
another group that has been (and in many cases still is) discriminated against—blacks. “Hey, boy” used to be a form
of address that whites could use for any black man, even if he was thirty-five years old, because it connoted
that he was not of the same status as a white man. Although it is not used with the same
malicious intention, “girl” has the same effect.

Mr. Burns said he sees no correlation between calling a woman a girl and calling a black man a boy
because for him, “the attitude behind the language is what is important. The term ‘boy’ reflected a hatred and a
warped view of blacks, but ‘girl’ is okay.” As I already said in the above paragraph, I recognize that people
do not say “girl” with the intention of showing condescension. But discrimination is discrimination whether people intend it to be
or not, and some of the most pervasive and dangerous forms of all kinds of discrimination occur because people are
not aware that they are committing them.

Out of nowhere he also comes up with the statement, “I am sorry Lucia, but ‘gals’ went out with poodle
skirts and sock-hops.” I would never in a million years write an article on why women really ought to be
called “gals.” My article did not even mention the word “gals” anywhere. As a matter of fact, I think it’s
one of the stupidest-sounding words in our language. I did not at any point suggest that the term “girls” should
be replaced with “gals” or “chicks” or “broads” or “babes” or “psycho-bitches from Hell,” for that matter. I just said
women should be called “women!”

Mr. Burns also accuses me of “treating men as sex objects” and suggests readers turn to my letter on the
opinions page to see this for themselves. I sincerely hope that they all did, because I have no doubt that
it would be as obvious to them as it is to me that there is nothing there that could possibly
be construed as treating men as sex objects. My letter was a simple clarification that my article was aimed...At Davidsonian
readers of both genders (an editor had mistakenly suggested in the headline he had written for my article that it
was addressed only to males). I only bothered to make this clarification in order to avoid being erroneously labeled as
an obnoxiously militant feminist. I explained why in the letter itself:

"I don’t want readers to think that I am blaming the problem [of women being called 'girls'] only on men,
or think that I am a man-hating, hairy-legged, lesbian, scowling, crew-cutted feminist armed with a submachine gun to blast holes
through any man who innocently opens a door for me. I’m just a feminist. And for the record, I like
men just fine (some men more than others, is all I am at a loss about). I chose to explain
how Mr. Burns can read 'I like men just fine,' and honestly believe it says, 'I treat men as sex
objects.' If Mr. Burns would like to respond in print to what my article actually said, I welcome his comments.
If he doesn’t like extreme feminism, I still welcome his comments. If he would like to engage in a journalistic
argument against imaginary opponents, perhaps Don Quixote can direct him towards a belligerent windmill to attack."

— Kendall

Sports Editor's note:
1. I did not cheat on term papers! Talk about denial.
2. The author should not flatter herself into thinking that my article was a response to her letter. Her letter
merely brought up an issue that I wanted to talk about. The column was never meant as a point-by-point refutation
of her opinion piece.
3. Perhaps the words “more in response to Luci So” make it clear.
4. Ms. Kendall implied that men could be judged like produce when she said she liked some more than others.
My comment was tongue-in-cheek and entirely as an aside to my main argument. I prefer the term “gals,” but what
would she have as the female equivalent to the term “guys”? The only alternate word to use is “girls.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Baker Sports Complex. The name has been ringing promises of grandeur for a long time, but next week the wait
and the mystery will come to a close. In the midst of the hoopla is a concern which affects Davidson
students and faculty, especially since it threatens to make our enjoyment of the complex less than it should be. As
our lead story explains, ticket office managers have contrived a policy concerning ticket purchases and seating arrangements for the basketball
arena. Under this rule, students will be required to procure tickets one day before the date of games. Anyone missing
that deadline will be denied the right to attend. Such denial is a penalty. Penalty is the correct term because
students should be able to attend events at the school to which they pay tuition fees. Hectic schedules do not
always allow the time to go halfway across campus (since the new ticket office will be located in the complex)
to obtain a ticket for the next day’s game.

In such a case, those who hold season tickets, namely benefactors and members of the Wildcat Club, will have priority
over Davidson's own. The general public will also have priority. After all, they are the paying customers. Secondly, while it
may be efficient to divide the basketball arena into seating sections, Davidson faculty and staff are at a great disadvantage.
They have been shoved into corner and back sections. Why can’t they sit on the lower level in an enlarged
student/faculty section? Even the general audience will have better seats than they. Neither will students’ family members be able to
sit with their sons and daughters in the lower level (players’ families have a designated area). They must sit in
higher-level student seats. That avenue is coincidentally cheaper than general seating. Will the opening of the complex signal a change
to please Davidson’s peripheral community rather than its immediate constituency? It should not. Neither should it signal the beginning of
a money-making business.

—m.m.
