Thursday, October 19, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

"Too Clever By Half" is the name of the theatre department's fall production, and Brian Kosanovich and Sarah Powell are two of its stars. The play is a Russian farce written by Alexander Ostrovsky. Performances are Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. There is a matinee at 3 p.m. Saturday. Tickets are $5 for the public and $3 for students. Call -2340 for reservations.
Photo Courtesy of College Relations

SENIORS, from previous page

"I think about the near future, say up to 2 years down the road. I don’t see myself married, with a house, or anything like that yet."

"The future is a topic that is obviously avoided among seniors. It is conspicuously absent in conversation. No one wants to talk about it because they're afraid. What if I get out and can’t find a job? Isn’t that a fear with you?"

"This is a lot harder than coming out of high school--there are a lot more options. Too many."

"You know that you'll be somewhere next year. You're not going to be in a desert. If you don’t like what you’re doing you can quit. There’s always something."

"I haven’t heard anyone say that they are going to live at home. I’m going to Kansas to live with my brother--to live off my brother!"

"I’m hearing that there are a lot of people here. They talk as if ‘real life’ is something not to be looked forward to."

"I'm going to take a year off before graduate school and do something."

"Maybe I'll start a commune."

"I took the GRE in summer, and the NTE. I will take the GMAT and the MAT this fall, so that I will have lots of options. I’m getting my teaching certificate this spring, and I want to travel around the country this summer. Then I want to teach for 1-2 years...or go to graduate school...or I don’t know!"

Many people I spoke with have applied for scholarships, or are in the process of preparing for GREs and LSATs. Most seniors are discovering the Careers Office, some have resumes finished, and a few are interviewing and actively pursuing certain jobs. When I asked one senior where he is in his search he said: "Well, I did have an appointment with the Careers Office, but the hurricane blew it away." I think he meant the appointment.

Fall fashion trends call for lots of print and the executive look; leopard is out.

Photography review
Scott's scenes of the South
By PAUL BERRINGER

The colorful photography of Anderson Scott provides an interesting if not mentally challenging display in the College Union. Scott, a 1984 Davidson graduate, never took a studio art course here, but he did study at the School of Photography at Yale University, where he subsequently was awarded his M.F.A. While at Yale, Scott increased his knowledge of the technical aspects in photography and learned how to photograph in varied conditions. The school was founded by Walker Evans, who imbued the department with his artistic philosophy. While Scott had begun working in the conceptual vein of such nature photographers as Ansel Adams and Eliot Porter, as he considered their formalist approach to natural subject matter interesting, he came to find Evans's sophistication more appealing. Whereas Evans worked in black and white, Scott works in color, and he finds that this use of color provides him with a new avenue to explore Evans's philosophy. While Scott continues to be interested in the basic geometry of form, reminiscent of Adams and Porter, the intensely southern quality of his work is strongly suggestive of the later influence of Evans. Scott photographs almost entirely in the South.finds the North less appealing aesthetically, and he states that, because he often trespasses, he finds northerners more intimidating and threatening. Scott’s southern subjects are frequently of lower- to middle-class origins, yet not bereft of dignity. The photographs of rustic southern sites reflect a visual interest in the bizarre and a conceptual interest in abstraction. More importantly, thematically these photographs display a dignity similar to that found in his portrait work, which serves to remind one of the South's tremendous beauty and its pride and pathos.

FUNDRAISER | A FREE GIFT JUST FOR CALLING | PLUS, RAISE UP TO $1,700 IN ONLY TEN DAYS. Student groups, fraternities, and women’s eating houses needed for marketing project on campus. Student group officers call 1-800-950-8472 ext. 0 for details and a FREE GIFT.

By HILARY COMAN

Fall means many different things to many people. The leaves are falling, the kids are back in school, and the newest fall fashions are on the racks. Each year the fashions are a little different, maybe a little more interesting. And this year’s fall fashions look like they won’t disappoint us on either count.

The most conspicuous change from previous years is the reappearance of animal prints. Once considered a relic from the ‘60s, the animal print is showing up everywhere from the runways of Milan to the local department store. However, opinions on the infamous print vary from store to store. April Morgan, a Belk’s Stores associate, declared the print “very hot.”

“In our Serenade to Autumn fashion show Adrienne Vittadini (the guest designer) wore a leopard print outfit that everybody now wants,” she said. The prints are not contained to just clothing either. According to Morgan, “They run the whole gamut from purses and belts to earrings and shoes.”

However, this predominance of prints doesn’t exist in some other stores. Hattie Massey, an associate at Thalhimers’, noted only one print jacket among the entire better sportswear collection. Instead, she noted herringbone and tweed were among the preferred fabrics. “The conservative and executive look is very popular. Jones of New York (a sportswear manufacturer) produces a lot of very popular two-piece suits that are selling quite well.”

However, the “leopard look” is no longer that popular. “We had more during summer in the safari motif but not for fall,” said Massey. A Limited associate, Allison Huffman, agreed, “We did a lot for spring, but not right now.”

Davidson reaction to the prints is varied. Sophomores Jill Mathis and Carmen Dockery expressed horror at the idea. Said Mathis, “I think they belong back in the jungle.” Dockery believes they should be used for a better purpose—"They belong on dogs’ sweaters,” she said. “I think they’re too kinky to wear in the daytime,” echoed senior Molly Young. However, sophomore Heath Hardage said, “I think a leopard mini-skirt could enhance your social life considerably.”

Besides the prints, there are many other hallmarks to look for in fall fashion. In addition to prints, Belk’s Morgan has noticed other tendencies. “The clothes are going more towards the Edwardian look,” she stated. “Also, the Chanel-type clothes are very popular.” According to Limited’s Huffman, “The tapestry vests are a very big item this year.” Other worthy items to note are the “bubble” sweater worn over tights and the predominance of suede in many outfits.

So, obviously, the women do have a choice. One Davidson woman, sophomore Liz Murphy, just doesn’t worry about fashion trends. “I don’t shop actively,” she said, “my boyfriend in Beverly Hills does that for me.”

The guys’ opinions are a little simpler about all of this. According to freshman Matt Dormer, “I like the mini-skirts.” Sophomore Mike Malloy answered unabashedly, “I haven't even noticed.”