Features

If an economics student is in a forest when a tree falls, does he or she make a sound?

“Political Economy of the Environment” class studies the phenomenon of clear cutting

By DAVID SCOTT

Professor Chris Bell of the economics department has taught a new class this term entitled “The Political Economy of the
Environment.” This class emphasizes the vital role of proper management techniques in order to preserve our oft-abused natural resources.

On March 13, Bell led the eight members of his class to the home of Walton Smith (Davidson class of
’32) to examine different forestry management principles in action. Smith lives on 125 acres in the Waldee Forest in southwest
North Carolina near the Great Smokey Mountains National Park. He is an active opponent of federal forestry programs that institute
the practice of clear cutting in Carolina woodlands.

Clear cutting is a frequently applied tactic that involves cutting down all trees and vegetation in a section of forest,
picking out the usable timber, and leaving the rest to decay. Government officials claim that this practice provides a simple
way to obtain needed timber without hurting the environment. The cleared sections of forest, in theory, should grow back as
healthy or healthier than they were before.

Environmental activists such as Smith disagree. He and another Davidson graduate, Monroe Gilmore (Class of '68), along with retired forester
Bob Badgett, spoke to the visiting students about the advantages of selective cutting over clear cutting. This method involves marking
each tree that needs to be cut and leaving the forest as a whole relatively unchanged. The government claims that
this method is inefficient and expensive, but environmental impact studies make this point debatable.

The students then toured Smith’s property on which the method of selective cutting is put into practice. On his property,
Smith grows Christmas trees, has apple orchards, raises seedlings, and has his own sawmill. Selective cutting also allows him to
take in a healthy revenue from timber without leveling entire sections of his forest.

The students then visited public lands on which clear cutting was practiced. Large barren splotches and naked hilltops contrasted with
the healthy forests where selective cutting was practiced; if nothing else, clear cutting is ugly.

Students from Bell’s class are helping organize a “Cut the Clear Cutting Campaign” and will have a booth set up
from 1-5 p.m. on the football field on April 8. Petitions against clear cutting are also being circulated for those
interested in signing their name to the cause.

Photo courtesy of Stephanie Wyatt

Student art show

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Posters scream “Waiting for WALT,” banners with the same message flap from windows, ads tote the same news. All the
fuss begs an answer to a single question: “Who IS WALT?”

WALT is the student radio...station due to begin broadcasting Monday, April 3. It stands for alternative radio and will be
found on AM frequency 580. In addition to providing music not usually heard on major stations, WALT will supply a
unique form of communication for the student body. Varied programming as well as information about on-campus events will make WALT
a station for all students.

The need for a student radio station arose in September 1987. The administration canceled Flipsides, the last alternative show broadcast
on formerly student-run WDAV. As a result, students rose in protest. A petition for a student-run radio station gathered signatures
from over half the student body a mere hour after its circulation. Acting on this overwhelming response, Tyler Smith, Frank
Lord, and Kevin Dunn, among others, soon obtained a charter for a carrier current station from the SGA. The charter
made WALT eligible for funds through the Activities Tax Council. In addition, the new organization also became part of the
Media Board.

Describing the station’s first stages, program director Lord said, “It took a long time to do things I thought would
go a lot faster.” Smith, business manager for WALT, stressed the enormous amount of behind-the-scenes paperwork and organization required to
set the new station on its feet. She also commented that the students received a lot of help from the
media board in addition to securing the use of old WDAV equipment.

During this school year, WALT staff members have been working with the media board to arrange for a broadcast studio
and engineers to revitalize the old system. The studio in the basement of Belk required an enormous cleanup effort. Drew
Henderson and Kurt Perkins built shelves, laid carpet, and sound-proofed the old broadcasting room. Fortunately, much of WDAV’s old equipment
still remained in the basement and only required the efforts of Mac Wiley, a WRFX engineer, to be operable. The
huge record collection also had to be transported from the current WDAV offices. As part of the last effort, music
director Frank Lord found DJs and began compiling a list of songs which would be played on WALT.

Although at first the station will only be carried in Duke, Cannon, Sentelle, Watts, Little, Belk, and Richardson, Smith hopes
to extend the area to include the union and possibly the court houses. If enthusiasm for WALT grows, it could
become available to all students as an FM station sometime next year.

Davidson drama presents Wonderful Town this weekend

By KATHERINE MALLORY

The Davidson drama department will present its first major musical since 1979 at Love Auditorium April 7-9, 13-15. Wonderful Town
is a delightful tale based on a series of stories by Ruth McKenney and put to the music of Leonard
Bernstein. It is the story of Ruth McKenney’s zany experiences with her sister Eileen, two midwesterners who have come to
Greenwich Village in 1935 to build their lives. Ruth, played by senior Donna Peters, is the older sister. Eileen, played
by junior Trina Janiec, is a somewhat naive but beautiful younger sister.

The parade of people and events in the lives of the sisters reflects the chaos of life in Greenwich Village.
