6 Friday, April 14, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The college has had several pipe-dream transfers in; Wood said the college was hoping to have 50 male freshmen next
year and 10 transfers. Some female students charge that unfair advantages are being offered to the “Queen-ers.” The men reside
in the only air-conditioned dorm on campus, are said to commit vandalism with impunity, and all but a few are
on full basketball, tennis, or academic scholarships. Tad Adams, a sophomore transfer from the Citadel, said of the men, “Basically
everybody is a presidential scholar or has a basketball or tennis scholarship, with a few ‘independents.’” Adams, an “independent,” said
that despite everything, “the reception has been really good; everybody has been really nice.”

Female students wanting air-conditioning must buy the unit themselves and then pay $90 for installation. “Last year,” said sophomore Missie
Howard, “you wouldn’t walk across campus and see beer cans strewn all over.” Also, a large statue of a rhinoceros
displayed outside a campus building was reportedly painted red and yellow and then smashed by several male students. “They don’t
really know how to handle the guys,” laughed Adams. Wood downplayed reports of discipline issues.

Many feel they have been “lied to” concerning the schedule by which Queens is going coed. Junior Sara Jenkins said,
“They told us last year in the fall that there would be no guys until fall 1988. Our understanding from
memos sent around and a forum held last fall was that there would be no transfers admitted.” Sophomore Ann Wilson
said, “Many (women) stayed because they were told that all the men would be in the freshman class, that there
was a no-transfer policy.” The first contingent of male students arrived at Queens in January 1988.

Women here are independent and do things for themselves. Ameesha Pandya, a Davidson student born in India, finds herself in
the middle of organizing an Indian dinner or taking a group to a sitar concert. Both have made acquaintances otherwise
rarely possible outside of the classroom. As Asians make friends and intermingle with Americans, they notice cultural differences. They particularly
remarked upon the importance of the individual in American culture. “A lot of emphasis is placed on the rights of
individuals,” says Nusrat Khan of Pakistan. “At home, the rights of the individuals are somewhat repressed and family decisions are
cumulative decisions.” “Everyone’s opinion is given so much importance in class,” adds Mukherjee. This individualism is not always good when
it is promoted by a desire to succeed based on materialistic values, says Sharma. “Everything is measured in materialistic values,”
she complains. “Dignity and self-esteem are not as important as having a home and two cars.” Is there a noticeable
difference between the two cultures?American and Indian women? Worah thinks so. “There is a basic difference in attitudes about what
they want to do after college. In India, they may plan a career, but they are quite conscious that they
will have children and might even have to put off the career. It’s good to be independent and self-confident. Women
in India are starting to think like women here.”

Another positive difference is the American system of higher education, primarily because tests are periodic and students do not have
to depend upon one exam at the end of the course to determine their grade. Instead of cramming before that
exam, as was the case in their native country, students find it more beneficial to absorb concepts throughout the term
rather than memorize facts several days in advance. Davidson’s academic rigor has also made international students develop time-management skills.

In addition to noticing differences, Asians are making attempts to share their particular culture with the college. Efforts to educate
have been made primarily through the annual International Festival. Students in native dress set up booths displaying items native to
their country and sell food. The Charlotte Hindu Center’s dance troupe has performed Indian traditional folk dances with participation. Mukherjee
is directing an Indian play entitled “The Procession,” mostly cast by Indian students.

The college itself boasts a broad curriculum in South Asian Studies. Begun in 1970, it offers such courses as Indian
art, Buddhist traditions, Sanskrit, self-instructional study in Hindi, and a seminar on Gandhi. There is also the opportunity to spend
a term in India. The Dean Rusk Program in International Studies and the cultural diversity requirement in the college curriculum
are measures which also seek to increase students’ international awareness.

The South Asian Studies program has also benefited Indians raised in the United States. “It has allowed me to rediscover
the place I’m from,” says Pandya. The senior has lived in the United States since the age of two. According
to Pandya, American students are very inquisitive about Indian culture, an opinion not shared by all Asians. Pandya adds that
perhaps Americans are more comfortable speaking with her since she is more Westernized than those who have come directly from
India. She navigates both Indian and American cultures and says that she is able to relate to the concerns felt
by other South Asians.

It is interesting to remark on the variation in views held by Indian students and those Indians raised in America.
Views on marriage are one example. Pandya’s views on marriage interestingly clash with the opinion held by Sharma. While the
former disapproves of arranged marriages, Sharma says they may sometimes be preferable. She advises not waiting “too long” for marriage.
“Family is more important than $20 an hour,” she believes. She definitely wants to raise her children in India.

Jay Chaudhuri, whose father came to the United States from India, was surprised to find such a large body of
international students at the college, some of whom come from his father’s hometown—Calcutta. “It gives me the opportunity to speak
Bengali at leisure,” he says. Since he travels to India every several years, he comments, “it’s promising to know you
have friends there that you met at Davidson.” The sophomore has helped foreign students feel comfortable by inviting them home.

Some things about Davidson surprised Asians. Khan did not know that the population of the town would be as small
as 3,800. However, he now feels very comfortable with the size and does not miss the city since his time
is occupied with studying, participating in activities, and working. The lack of public transportation in Davidson poses a problem for
those who come from metropolitan cities and are used to buses and subways. Says Worah, “You’re not able to go
out as much as at home or as much as other students can.”

Yet the opportunity to study in the United States is a chance all those interviewed value extremely. Says Khan, “It
has opened new doors, especially in research. I’m free to strive for any goal in my life.” He interned with
the Mecklenburg County Health Department last summer and helped formulate the county’s position paper on AIDS. He plans to become
a doctor.

For the most part, all students will return to India once their degrees are earned. Worah, who plans to obtain
an advanced engineering degree, feels an obligation to help his nation develop. “The cream of Indian talent moves abroad because
the opportunity and facilities for research and technology are not in India—but you just can’t forget a place where you
lived for 20 years. I want to go back.”
