Wednesday, October 25, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Senior Melissa Cagives a big kiss to Howard Covington, the benefactor of the college’s new hard tennis courts.

Photo by Frank Gibbes

Men’s soccer pleases parents in weekend match

By JOHN BURNS

The gentlemen’s soccer team, preparing for a showdown with fifth-ranked South Carolina on Tuesday, electrified an overflow Parent’s Weekend crowd
on Saturday by beating an overmatched Georgia State team 3-1.

Tracy Hankins started the scoring with a goal off of an assist from Rob Vest. Rob Ukrop followed and Phelps
Sprinkle finished up with a strange, slow-paced goal in the second half.

Men's soccer racked up yet another win by defeating Georgia State this past weekend.

The score could have been much worse as most of the action took place on the GSU end of the
field.

The Wildcats turned in an outstanding defensive effort, turning back nearly every Georgia State penetration and keeping the ball on
the good side of midfield for most of the afternoon.

The ‘Cats travel to Columbia Tuesday to try and repeat last year’s success against the Gamecocks.

Tennis: new courts and promising team

By ROBERT GRUBB

The men’s tennis team celebrated the dedication of the new Howard Covington Tennis Courts with an impressive showing against Furman
last weekend. The men squared off with Furman in a normal format on both days and then teamed up with
the women to play mixed doubles on Sunday.

Unofficially, the Wildcats lost 8-6 on Saturday, but won 6-2 on Sunday. Official scores were not kept, because of an
NCAA rule which counts each day of a team tournament as a match date. Both matches were played with ten
singles and four doubles positions. The coaches and players decided to forgo the doubles on Sunday.

The weekend tournament, which also featured the women against Furman, demonstrated the versatility the additional hard courts bring to the
tennis program. The seven new hard courts will allow the men’s and women’s teams to practice simultaneously. The biggest advantage,
however, will be the possibility of scheduling men’s and women’s matches on the same day.

“We hope to be able to schedule matches together during the spring season,” said men’s coach Jeff Frank. “Having the
two teams playing together will make the matches more of a spectacle and more fun from the spectator standpoint. This
way we hope to get bigger crowds out.”

The weekend tournament with Furman was the fourth event of the season for the Wildcats. The team lost to VPI
5-4 to open the season. The ‘Cats played in another tournament at Washington and Lee, and defeated both UNCC and
Wofford in dual matches. In both of those matches the team played without the preseason number one seed senior Tim
Hagood, and senior Charles Jordan. Hagood was out with a sprained ankle, which he injured at the Washington and Lee
tournament. The ‘Cats squeaked by UNCC 8-7, with Robert Lim and Mike Bodungen winning the deciding match. The team shut
out Wofford 9-0.

Kurtis Zabell came back to play well this weekend after having some difficulty filling in at number one for the
injured Hagood last weekend. Freshman Albi Varosky and junior Greg Grooms both had successful tournaments. The number one and two
doubles teams both won on Saturday. Zabell and John Beyer teamed up to win at number one. Hagood, playing second
doubles with Dale Voeks, returned from his injury to beat his old doubles partner.

These two victories pleased Frank, who said he will be emphasizing doubles during the off-season.

“We have very even team ability in singles and some good doubles players,” he said. “This fall I’m going to
try to find the best doubles combinations.”

The fall season will close on Friday, but Frank said he may try and schedule another match at homecoming.

Davidson's Complete Outdoors Store
- CAMPING EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTALS
- CASUAL AND TECHNICAL CLOTHING
- HIKING BOOTS AND SANDALS
- TRAVEL GEAR, CANOES, KAYAKS
- SUNGLASSES, KNIVES
- BOOKS, MAPS, ACCESSORIES

I-77 TO EXIT 28 (HWY 73 WEST)
ON TORRENCE CHAPEL ROAD
IN SHOPS ON THE GREEN, CORNELIUS, NC

OPEN: MON-FRI 10-8 SAT 10-5

892-1848
