By DJ JAZZY SCOOP

Business magnate, yacht enthusiast, and generally acclaimed capitalistic pig Donald Trump has completely taken over Davidson College. Reactions across the board have been quite mixed. The trustees seem to be relatively happy with the situation. Board president Craig Wall stated, “He’s financially stable. I like that.”

Wall’s only fears concerned Trump’s new slogan for marketing campus condom machines: “The New Titanium-Tipped Trump Tickler, tougher than leather but smooth as silk,” and the slogan to be printed on the condoms themselves: “I like thinking big. If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.” But Wall was sure this glitch could be worked out.

On-campus reaction was more varied. For a complete and total appraisal of what the students really think, The David's Onion went to the only source that counts, Patterson Court.

The PiKAs invited Trump to “come party with the Lads,” but when he came to the late night it was so crowded that no one noticed his presence and an extremely intoxicated Lad laid a technicolor yawn down Ivana’s cleavage.

Phi Delts displayed more anxiety upon hearing of Trump’s actions. Quoth one especially large person, “He’s too rich and looks like a KA.” However, a compromise was reached when Trump agreed to ensure the right to whiffle ball on the Smith House lawn for Davidson generations to come.

SOPHOMORES Bob Hornsby and Jam Slagle dismantle the Habitat for Humanity house they worked hard to construct earlier this year. “Trump’s the boss,” sighed Hornsby. “He thinks big.”

An entourage of cheering, well-dressed SAEs welcomed Trump at the airport waving banners and résumés. The entire assembly then proceeded back to the Hod house for a mixer with the Clemson Tri Delts; Ivana wasn’t invited. (She was left at the Kappa Sig house for safekeeping.) Trump had such a good time that he purchased a tie-dyed “Trump Beemer” to transport select Hods to the latest Dead Show. (It came tie-dyed—God knows they didn’t do it themselves).

The Sig Eps gave Trump a bid. When he refused, they said that he could still play Assassin with them if he wanted.

Kappa Sigma called an immediate house-wide formal meeting on the subject. Of course, the meeting had to be transferred to the library to accommodate the Squids’ rigorous study habits.

PAX decided to stage a marathon protest volleyball match not to end until Trump, his cars, his boat, his values, and Ivana got the heck out of town. Don’t get blisters guys, and watch for ruts when all the grass gets worn down.

As usual, no one was at the BSC for comment.

Now on to KA. “The Order” seems to share a special camaraderie with Trump and spared no expense to greet “The King.” Upon entering the house, Trump was issued a ritual bandanna to hang out the back of his c uckhedds. He went to shake hands with who he thought was the chapter president, but it turned out to be just a pledge (never could tell those guys apart). Everyone then went out back for the first annual “Trump Masters Putt-Putt Classic.” Before a roaring crowd of bovines, Trump himself came through to claim the coveted pink oxford by Ralph Lauren. His prize was donated to the Sig Ep house.

When informed that Davidson had a Fiji chapter off campus, Trump stated, “Really?”

The independents sat around at the Union Cafe talking about moral superiority and writing comic strips.

In next week’s issue: “Trump Denies Dean Williams Tenure.” Get the facts from the one and only Trump Trumpet.

PATTERSON COURT WELCOMES TRUMP!

NCNB moves to Davidson in surprise Trump deal!

By GEORGE, I THINK HE'S GOT IT!

The banking and the academic community buzzed Monday after Donald Trump announced a “friendly” takeover of NCNB. Trump, who recently purchased Davidson College, said that the acquisition is part of his elaborate plan for a “mega-super-regional bank and school.”

The Charlotte-based bank will be renamed Trump National and will move its headquarters to Davidson. Trump was vague over the exact amount offered for the takeover, but he hinted that the sum was lower than he had expected. “I love the bargain,” Trump said, “I love quality, but I don’t believe in paying top price for quality.”

Sources at NCNB reported the figure to be in the billions.

Plans have already been drawn for a 37-story high-rise on Main Street which will serve as the new classroom building for Trump University and the new headquarters for the Davidson bank. Also in the plans is a graduate business school that will be located on the revolving top five floors. Construction for the new bronze-edged glass, pink marble, and onyx skyscraper is scheduled to begin next week.

“The move in business today is toward a small city community,” said NCNB chairman Hugh McColl Jr. “People are sick and tired of big metropolises like New York and Charlotte. Davidson will provide a healthy alternative.”

“This is the new trend in banking and higher education,” said Trump. “Banking executives will be located in the same building, so they will be available for lectures. They may even begin teaching classes on the side.” He also stressed the great job opportunity for students. “We can train kids in The Art of the Deal school of thought, then hire them to run the bank,” he said.

McColl views the takeover as “extremely profitable. I just thank my lucky stars that the C&S deal fell through. This is much better than mucking around in every pig path in Georgia,” he said.

C&S chairman Bennett Brown, however, was disgusted by this latest development. “We have 100 years of working in those markets and we understand those people. Do they want to serve the communities or just be the biggest? I thought Hugh had answered that,” he said.

“I like thinking big,” said Trump, somewhat bewildered by Brown’s comments, “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.”

Clip ‘n’ Save!