17

*&& x THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH ANNIVERSARY ISSUE %& & %& April 1989

The fifties, a decade of sock hops, beanies, poodle skirts, leather jackets, rumbles, letter sweaters, unforgettable music. But what was
life really like in the fifties, or, more important, what was life like for the Davidson male?

Let's start with the obvious. In the fifties, Davidson was an all-male institution. As such, females had to be bused
in for all dance functions. This presented a problem because most of the functions lasted all weekend. It was therefore
decided that certain dorms would be emptied so that the girls could live there for the weekend. Usually, Duke Dorm
was used for this purpose.

Speaking of dorms, no one should forget infamous Rumple Dorm. Rumple was a well-loved fixture of the college, but woe
to any luckless sap forced to live there. It was rumored that the only thing holding Rumple up was the
ivy covering the wall. No Rumple Dorm room was complete unless it had several cans of bug spray and that
charming epitaph, “Home sweet home,” hanging on the wall. This epitaph was accompanied by another: “Be it ever so crumple,
there’s no place like Rumple.”

Davidson men usually joined one of the twelve fraternities residing at the college. These fraternities were situated on Jackson Court
until the late fifties when they were moved to their present locale on Patterson Court. Each fraternity usually had a
sponsor or sweetheart. In 1950, the brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon chose for their sponsor a bouncing baby girl.

Being a freshman was an entirely different experience in the fifties. All freshmen had to wear a beanie or cap.
Depending on how you wore it, your personality was judged. Freshmen could not wear the freshman cap, walk on the
grass, or fail to speak to every upperclassman they passed in the halls. All of these were required activities and
long-held traditions.

The Court of Control, relatively forgotten now, was an institution to be feared by the freshmen of the 40’s and
50’s. The court’s purpose was clearly outlined by Jim Ballenger in an October 14, 1955 article for The Davidsonian when
he stated, “The Court has the highly responsible job of developing the immature, uncouth freshmen into the fine Davidson gentlemen
that they should be.” Violations ranged from “conduct unbecoming a Davidson gentleman and disrespect to an upperclassman,” as Jimmy Hamilton
’60 was found guilty of, to “displaying a cocky attitude” of which Henry Ramsey ’60 was convicted. Most violations occurred
when freshmen did not follow these traditions. Sentences included such punishments as polishing the football team’s shoes and running to
the laundry for an entire hall for a week. Freshmen could not escape the wrath of the Court of Control.
Tom Kernan, in an article on October 3, 1958, related the story of Charlie Hartug, who pretended he was deaf
and mute when brought up for not speaking to an upperclassman. He was let go, only to be tried again
and found guilty.

See 1950s, Page 25

Homecoming—1955. The massive influx of Queenies and Salem girls, the arrival of alumni and parents, the dance in the gym
with Art Mooney and his band, the dedication of “Plus One” with Basil “Sherlock Holmes” Rathbone, all gave the feeling
of a special weekend.

The Wildcats did not disappoint the crowd of 7,000 on hand for Saturday's game. Davidson crushed an outclassed Washington and
Lee team 54-0 in a game in which the Wildcats threatened to score five other times in the first half.
With these failed opportunities, the score was only 14-0 at halftime. In the second half, however, the back “Deadly Dick”
Belton and All Southern Conference receiver Tom McRee proved to be too much for the Generals. All told, three different
quarterbacks combined for a 17-of-25 day with 371 passing yards. McRee also scored two touchdowns.

The Tonsure
Norman Landing Plaza
Rt. 73 West
Cornelius, NC

Davidson Students!!!
Save 30% on Shampoo, Cut, and Style!
With Valid Davidson College I.D.
Call 892-1933
Ask for Stylist Cammi Ferguson

Student Special!
Regular Menu Sandwich and Your Choice of Soft Drink for $3.00 + tax
With Davidson I.D. - Limited Time Offer!
Call 892-9603
