D.C. SOLD TO N.Y. DEVELOPER!

By NUV O. REESH

Donald Trump purchased Davidson College in an unprecedented takeover late last week for a price of $150 million. The college’s name will be changed, effective immediately, to Trump University. According to college president John Kuykendall, Trump’s offer both surprised and pleased the board of trustees. “The trustees plan to spend the next two months purchasing diamonds in Sun City, South Africa,” he said. Kuykendall plans to stay on as president of Trump University, but will, bluntly, be a Trump puppet. “It’s really not unlike the role I’ve played these last few years,” Kuykendall said.

Trump’s interest in Davidson came as a fluke, he says. “I noticed Davidson’s potential while flying over the town in my $10 million French Puma helicopter on the way to my resort home in Florida.” According to Trump’s lawyers, the high economic status of most Davidson students provoked him to open negotiations.

“Once I saw the abundance of Jaguars and BMWs as well as students’ willingness to pay $15,000 annual tuition and fees, I knew I’d come home,” avowed Trump.

Trump opened negotiations last Friday at the quarterly trustee meeting. It was decided that Trump could relieve the college of its fundraising burden by donating $150 million to the trustees and assuming responsibility for the operation of the college.

According to trustee secretary Larry Dagenhart, the trustees were initially divided on selling the college because of Trump’s questionable integrity. After a night of negotiations, capped by a mystical vision by Trustee President Craig Wall after eating the tequila worm, all parties reached a compromise.

The trustees set certain conditions and sold the college.

“Namely,” Dagenhart said, “Trump is to continue in Davidson’s cherished Presbyterian tradition.” Trump was ordained late last night in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. To commemorate the event, Trump plans to have a large mural painted across the church’s front. “I like thinking big,” he said in an exclusive interview. “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.”

Trump plans to accomplish several goals as Trump University’s chief officer. After renovating Chambers building for his personal residence, Trump will annex the towns of Davidson and Cornelius in order to erect new classrooms and administrative offices. The satellite parking lot will become a private landing strip for Trump’s personal jet.

In place of SAT scores, Trump plans to admit students on the basis of yearly parental income. Only those making $250,000 and above will be considered for admission to Trump University. Financial aid will be abolished.

“I like thinking big,” he says. “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.”

“I plan to instill my capitalist wealth ethic as well as continue the Presbyterian values of the former institution,” said Trump. “It’s really not a bad mix.”

DAVIDSON’S NEW OWNER

GUNMAN STILL AT LARGE

New college boss has close call in Johnston!

By STILLA TILARGE

By FRED FLINTSTONE

Many students were relieved to find out that Donald Trump’s takeover of Davidson will not erase all the progress the institution has made of late. The most significant improvement in the last year, according to administration sources, has been the institution of a new college logo.

After studying the five-figure concept at which administrators arrived earlier this year, Trump and his lawyers decided to retain the design with a few modifications.

One option for the logo that administrators had somehow ignored—one that Trump plans to implement immediately—was painting it on the roof of Chambers building in 50-foot high letters. “I like thinking big,” Trump said. “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.”

TRUMP

Student reaction to Donald Trump’s takeover of Davidson College was somewhat mixed. Students gathered for hours beforehand in Johnston Gym and in the football field bleachers to hear the important announcement yesterday. When the word finally came, pandemonium broke out. “Ding, dong, the witch is dead,” sang many of them inexplicably. Trump, who made the statement to students in the gym, waved and smiled to the crowd until an unidentified student gunman, thought to be a member of Dean of Students Will Terry’s secret police force, fired several shots at him. Then Trump stopped waving and smiling to the crowd.

The would-be assassin, captured in the above photo by crack David’s Onion photographers, then bolted from the room. He remains at large.

When the students recovered from the shock of virtually having witnessed a brutal, bloody killing right in front of their very own eyes, they began chanting, “Wave & smile some more!” This chant was repeated for fifteen minutes while the shaky Trump regained his wits. Finally, SGA president Tripp Helms offered Trump a dollar if he would wave & smile some more, and he accepted.

Trump waved and smiled, and then said translucently, “I like thinking big,” he said. “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.”

THE DAVID’S ONION (Volume LXXX, number 24) is published once or twice in a blue moon by the fun-loving journalists of Davidson College. Everything within is parody, so keep your pants on. Address: Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina.