2 Monday, January 23, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Black History Month
Several events are planned to celebrate Davidson's Martin Luther King, Jr. Black History Month Cultural Arts Series, which is sponsored
by the BSC, the Union, the Academic Affairs Office, the President's Office, Love of Learning, WDAV, and the Chaplain’s Office.

On January 22, The Believers musical theater group will present “Broadway Strutters” in Hodson Hall at 7:30 p.m. February’s events
will be announced later.

Duke Endowment announces grant
The Duke Endowment has announced a grant to support a campus-wide network. It also includes $150,000 toward the professorship, and
another $150,000 for a “Focus on Students,” an effort to help students make effective moral decisions for their lives and
society. A pilot program next year will involve a select group of freshmen.

Gibert discusses “The Ambiguity of Victorian Feminism”
Schools were looked upon as factories which turned out “ornamental and marriageable women”

By HEATH HARDAGE
Neither Oprah, nor Phil, nor even Geraldo would be in the least tempted to host a group of Victorian “feminists”
on their shows. These women were not espousing a radical platform of “total rejection of the male-dominated world,” unlike today’s
feminists, said Julie Gibert, in her lecture, “The Ambiguity of Victorian Feminism,” which she delivered to the Philanthropic Literary Society
on January 15.

Gibert, a visiting assistant professor of history and humanities, stated that the prevailing attitude towards women’s education in the 19th
century was “sit around and read a book until your husband comes, honey!” Schools were generally looked on as factories
which turned out “ornamental and marriageable women.”

Most schooling for women only provided a smattering of “feminine” subjects, such as music, painting, and French. These subjects were
in keeping with the “Victorian ideal of domesticity,” Gibert said. English feminists made progress when Oxford and Cambridge founded women’s
colleges in the 1860s and 1870s, but for many years, no degrees could be earned there.

A popular Victorian argument for women’s education was that “university training warded off frivolity.” Headmistresses of academies hoped that women
would eventually “leave their books and plunge into household tasks,” said Gibert.

Another argument supporting the education movement stated that as “wives and mothers of leaders,” women needed the intellectual training “to
inspire men.”

A final 19th-century argument which Gibert pointed out was the English need to give “odd” (unmarried) women something to do
with their lives. The “plight of women forced out of the marriage market” could be solved by allowing women to
attend universities, argued feminists.

Nineteenth-century suffragettes approached feminism in a much less sensational manner than their 20th-century counterparts. According to Gibert, “They decided to
concentrate on education first. It was a way of breaking down the social system.” These women did not state their
beliefs publicly, and they used “conservative rhetoric.” Women still, however, “obtained university education in a backhanded way,” she said.

As Gibert pointed out, the “easy popular belief” that the suffragettes all “agreed on what they were working for” is
not really valid. She commented that this view is somewhat of an oversimplification, which is encouraged by “Masterpiece Theater, where
we all get our quaint English history.”

Survey says: We’re rich, politically moderate, and watch little TV
By JOHN BURNS
Do you use drugs? Is the Patterson Court alcohol policy enforced well enough? Should the U.S. stop paying for the
defense of Japan? How would you respond if you were asked these questions?

Many students were given this opportunity last semester when Tom Kazee’s Political Science 319 class conducted a survey of Davidson
students. The questions were written and decided upon by the class. 454 students responded to the survey.

Several interesting findings were made by the students. Some of the more interesting results included:

Over 51 percent of those surveyed gave their family annual income as more than $60,000, and 27 percent said their
family made over $100,000 per year.

Davidson College is surprisingly middle-of-the-road politically: 36.4 percent of the respondents described themselves as at least somewhat liberal, 28.9 percent
said they were moderate, and 34.7 percent called themselves at least somewhat conservative.

30 percent of the respondents said that they watch no television, and only 23.8 percent watch five or more hours
a week.

27.4 percent of those surveyed said they drink alcohol at least several times a week. 50.2 percent of the respondents
feel the alcohol policy is adequately enforced.

In a finding that Kazee said represented a significant trend,
