sports

The Davidsonian: Wednesday, September 20, 1989

Stronger cross-country team is off and running this season

By LEE CANIPE

Ted Richardson, Davidson’s most valuable men’s cross-country runner last season, hopes to improve on the team’s 1988 finish in the
bottom division of the tough NCAA Southeast regional meet.

“I think we definitely can improve on last season,” he said. “We've got more depth and a strong grouping.”

Richardson and the Wildcats took a major step in that direction last Saturday at the Panther Creek Invitational in Jefferson
City, Tennessee. The Wildcat women, led by individual winner Kathy Beach, took second place in the meet while the men
finished third in a seven-team field.

Beach, a team co-captain who saw limited action in 1988 due to a stress fracture, was one of three Davidson
women in the top four places Saturday. Heather Tarpley and freshman Becky Hunter were third and fourth, respectively. Brevard, a
strong team, won the team championship.

Sophomore Chris Otrok paced the men with a top 20 finish and was followed by freshmen Peter Hurtado and Ian
Stewart. Senior David Murray and freshman David Kerns rounded out Davidson’s top five seeds. Otrok, winner of the Davidson Alumni
race earlier in the season, has emerged as the team’s leading runner, but the team as a whole is talented.

“We're much more solid this year than we were last season,” said Richardson. “We might not have any real standouts,
but we are strong all the way from our first man to our seventh. We have a good group of
freshmen too.”

Coach Gary Andrew’s Wildcats travel to Winthrop next weekend and will be at home for the Davidson Invitational on October
20. By then Davidson should be entering the last stages of preparation for the regional meet in early November.

“Coach Andrew’s training schedule is so that his runners will be at their peak by regional time,” said Richardson. If
things keep progressing according to this schedule, the Wildcats should enjoy a more pleasant trip to Greenville in 1989.

Wildcat football team found out just how far it is to the bottom against the Dayton Flyers as they fell
with a thud 49-7. And they fell quickly. On the first play from scrimmage for Dayton, a well-defensed halfback option
pass found its way past safety Mike Noonan for a 52-yard touchdown. Head coach Vic Gatto was quick to point
out that Noonan was not to blame.

“We had the defense we wanted and the defensive player we wanted covering the receiver,” he said. “The ball was
just thrown right where it had to be thrown.”

The Flyers never looked back. Before the quarter was over it was 21-0 Dayton, and the Wildcats had lost their
second starting tailback in two weeks. Bryn Robinson went out with an injury to the same knee that kept him
out of action last season. From then on the numbers tell the entire story as the Wildcats were out-blocked, out-tackled,
and out-coached. Thirteen different players amassed 309 yards on the ground and five touchdowns for the Flyers. Their quarterbacks combined
on 14 of 19 passes for 205 yards and two scores. The Flyer defense gave up only 167 yards of
total offense. Davidson running backs could average only 2.6 yards per carry and quarterbacks Matt Matheny and Mark Wainwright completed...Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

more passes to Dayton defenders (4) than to Wildcat receivers (3). On Davidson’s one scoring drive, the big plays were
turned in by Matt Matheny, who converted a fourth and four situation in the third quarter for a five-yard gain,
and Mike Carney, who gained 25 yards on a reverse. The drive was capped by freshman Travis Hinson’s 7-yard run.
After the game, there were no excuses. Having to fly into Dayton that morning certainly was a contributing factor. The
lack of players on the squad doesn’t allow for the offense or defense to get a complete feel for opponents’
tendencies during practice.

Men's soccer wins one, loses next to Rollins

By GIGGY MAXWELL

In boxing, it is called a feeling-out period. The two fighters are cautious for the first few rounds, waiting to
size up their opponent. In a word, the trick to the first few rounds is patience. Last week it was
the Wildcat men's soccer team which benefited most from this feeling-out period as they defeated UNC Asheville 3-1. The first
35 minutes of play produced little action as each side managed only one legitimate shot on goal. But with 13:45
to go in the half, the Wildcats awoke. Rob Vest directed a center pass to Phelps Sprinkle on the left
side of the goalie box, and Sprinkle successfully scored. The remainder of the period produced several more scoring opportunities for
Davidson, but none reached the net. The second half began in much the same way as the first half had
ended. The Wildcats were on the offensive for the entire half, but none of their shots reached the goal. Apparently
frustrated by their inability to score, the ‘Cats’ defense lapsed midway through the period and allowed UNC Asheville to head
the ball in for a 1-1 tie. Rob Ukrop finally provided Davidson with its second goal at 3:00 before the
end of the game. The scoring was completed with :43 to go in the game as Tracy Hawkins was given
a free kick due to a UNC Asheville penalty. Last weekend the Wildcats were in Florida, where they lost 3-2
in overtime to Rollins.

Jay Chuan, David Kor, Chris Otrok, and Peter Hurtado hope their training will mean wins for the cross-country team. Photo
by Ted Richardson

Football falls 49-7 to Dayton, loses Robinson to injury, but freshman Hinson makes TD

By GIGGY MAXWELL

Sometimes when you’re on top of the world, you get knocked down. But none of these things were mentioned after
the game. The players were already looking to next week’s game against Wagner in the Pride Bowl. And as Gatto
reminded them, Wagner is every bit as good as Dayton, if not better. After this weekend, the Wildcats, as well
as their fans, are certain to learn much about the team and the direction in which they are heading.

Injury Update:
1) TB Mike Wright (knee) will undergo surgery on Wednesday and is out for the season.
2) TB Bryn Robinson (knee) is out for at least four weeks and will be looked at further on Wednesday
to determine if surgery is necessary.
3) QB Peter Hughes (hand) had his cast removed last week and took some snaps but will likely remain as
a blocking back and wideout.

All injury information was provided by Chuck Voyles, head athletic trainer.
