Wednesday, September 20, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

YSSC offers rewards

By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

For the information of new freshmen and still uninformed upperclassmen, the YSSC, or Youth Student Service Corps, does community service
in Davidson, Charlotte, and the surrounding areas. Many things one learns while working with YSSC may actually be practical in
later life. YSSC volunteers participate in activities such as tutoring a child (you may have one some day), learning to
build a house (you could save a lot of money), and becoming a friend with a senior citizen (your parents
may soon become one of them!).

The YSSC picnic this past weekend featured booths for the various activities the organization sponsors. Following is a description of
these different programs and information about how to get involved.

Big Brother/Sister: Students are assigned to be role models to younger persons in the community and meet weekly with the
child.

Davidson Day Care: Students volunteer one hour a week to play with children.

Davidson Elementary Tutoring: Students are needed from 2:30 to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday to tutor children while developing friendships
with them. Volunteers need only participate once a week at the most.

Crop Lunch/Walk: Students have a lunch once a week to raise money for world hunger and also act as fundraisers
for the annual Crop Walk.

Oxfam/Hunger Awareness: This group tries to increase hunger awareness on campus and helps with the community hot lunch program.

Habitat for Humanity: Students work on a Habitat Home on Wednesday, Saturday, or Sunday.

North Meck YMCA: Students volunteer to coach a community sports team or to referee some games.

Adult Literacy: Volunteers attend training sessions to learn the basics of teaching reading and writing, and then meet with an
assigned student once a week.

Seigle Avenue: Students travel to Charlotte every Wednesday to help Chaplin’s Youth program from 5:15-8:30 p.m.

Florence Crittenden: At this home for unwed mothers, volunteers go for two hours on Wednesday nights to tutor and talk
with the women.

Prison Visitation (For Males Only): Volunteers visit Huntersville Prison on Friday afternoons to play basketball or to talk with the
inmates.

Senior Citizens: Participants are paired with a senior citizen in the community. Pairs meet at each other’s convenience and for
holiday parties.

Recycling: Students help with the gathering and transporting of recyclables.

Homeless Shelter: Students tutor kids in a makeshift shelter in Charlotte or help with the hot lunches.

Student Tutorial Service: Students teach North Meck High School students how to teach themselves and to help others.

* a program that needs more volunteers
# a new program

For those of you trying to prove that 90 percent of learning occurs outside the classroom, the YSSC is a
good place to start. If you are bored with the passivity of your classes, if you are tired of talking
about the world’s problems only in humanities or sociology, then join an organization where you can make a difference. Where
else but the YSSC can you have new experiences, develop friendships, and have fun, with the valid excuse that you
are doing something socially meaningful?

BOWL, from page 5

...based on knowledge of facts both useful and trivial. Two teams of four people race against each other for toss-ups.
The team which answers first receives a bonus question for more points. The team with the most points at the
end of two eight-minute halves wins the game. It is a fun, challenging way to play team Trivial Pursuit. According
to the rules of the National College Bowl tournament, players on a school’s team must have played in intramural, which
Arjun has the honor of running. With the graduation of Louderback and Grainger next spring, the team will have holes
to fill.

Davidson welcomes 25 transfer 'Cats

BY JENNIFER SIECK

Twenty-five students on Davidson campus are experiencing their first year at Davidson. However, they are not members of the class
of 1993. Who are they? They are the fall...comments on several topics. They agreed that Davidson is a refreshing change,
especially for Barnes, Mattison, and Spengler, since they had previously experienced situations in which people could be less than friendly.
According to Barnes, “Everyone on campus is so friendly. I have yet to run into someone on campus that is
not friendly.” Karl marvelled, “Everyone is so much nicer here. It’s incredible... It’s a shocker for me.” Said Spengler, “There’s
a pride about going here... There’s a sense as if we’re part of something special that’s going on.” When Mattison
told people he was going to Davidson, it elicited a unique response: “It’s got a personality besides an education.” These
four students are excited about being a part of the learning at Davidson and working to obtain an education.

1989 transfer students: This group is composed of 18 women and seven men whose nine home states range from Connecticut
to Florida. Their hometowns include places as close as Davidson, Kannapolis, and Statesville, and as far away as Newtown, Connecticut,
and Tampa, Florida. Their previous college experiences span from attending a small, single-sex college to being one of several thousand
undergraduate students at a large, co-ed university.

Barnes described the academic life, “so far... as reading, reading, reading.” All agree that unlike at their former institutions, one
cannot get by without doing the reading. “There's a lot of work, but it’s good because everyone else does it
too,” said Mattison. Raymond, Barnes, Spengler, and Mattison appreciate the fact that students can and do participate actively in Davidson’s
small classes. Commented Raymond, “The whole class is very much into discussion. Students are much more forward.”

Although these transfer students are a diverse group in many ways, they seem to agree on their feelings about the
Davidson experience so far. “It’s great!” as Karl Mattison, a sophomore transfer student, said. The transfer students come to Davidson
from many different situations. Rhonda Raymond, a junior transfer student from Elizabeth City, North Carolina, attended Peace College in Raleigh,
a two-year women’s college which has a student body of about 500 students. Timisha Barnes, a sophomore transfer from Kannapolis,
North Carolina, completed her first year of college at North Carolina Central University in Durham. She was looking for a
more challenging learning experience. “I felt that I’d get a better education here at Davidson,” she said.

Mattison and Matt Spengler, also a sophomore, expressed their desires to be in environments which were more interested in learning.
Mattison attended Lehigh University in Pennsylvania, a school of about 4,500 undergraduate students. His father attended Davidson, and his brother
is a junior here. Spengler was enrolled at the University of Connecticut. Its size of 20,000 undergraduate students played a
significant role in his decision to change schools.

At the same time, Davidson students are people too, and as Matt put it, they “know how to relax.” The
social life requires some adjustment on the part of these particular transfers. One difference at a small school such as
Davidson is that, as Mattison noticed with amazement, “Everyone knows each other.” These transfer students also commented on the frequent
special events that take place at Davidson, and the variety of opportunities for involvement. This variety was surprising to Spengler,
since he thought that his extracurricular activities might be limited at a smaller school.

Frat parties, however, were not these transfers’ favorite activities. Some of the interests they have on campus include the gospel
choir, the Davidson Ambassadors, the wind ensemble, the Black Student Coalition, and sports such as golf, sailing, swimming, and jogging.
Spengler was particularly appreciative to members of the transfer committee who “went out of their way to make it easier
for us to adjust.” The transfer students are still adjusting to Davidson, but as Barnes and Raymond both stated, “I’m
glad I’m here.”

Some of Davidson's 25 transfers are, from left to right: Timisha Barnes, Jennifer Sieck, Rhonda Raymond, Beth, and Elizabeth Lew.
Photo by Ed Matthews
