2 Beyond Davidson: International Affairs

East Germany cuts armed forces;
By BETH DRUMMOND and CAROL GATEWOOD

GDANSK: The outlawed Polish labor organization, Solidarity, has accepted a Government offer to discuss the restoration of its legal status as a union. In a statement released on Monday, Solidarity leaders responded to government action by expressing a desire to resume negotiations as soon as possible. No opposition to such direct talks has been voiced by members of the trade federation although the party resolution was passed over the objection of Solidarity hard-liners. The commission members declared the union’s readiness to respect Polish laws and called on the government to respect the trade organization’s freedom as well. Skeptics of the legalization report that there are many issues such as the rights of independent political organizations in Poland and greater independence for courts and judges on which the Government and Solidarity do not agree. Many feel that as long as these issues remain unresolved, an agreement on Solidarity will never be reached. Lech Walesa, the group’s leader, expressed willingness to cooperate with this Government initiative; other key Solidarity officials seem hopeful that differences can be worked out through negotiation.

EAST BERLIN: East German Leader, Erich Honecker, announced on Monday that his country will reduce its armed forces by 10,000 and cut military spending by 10 percent. The move follows a December announcement by Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev, of a Soviet unilateral conventional reduction of 50,000 men and 5,000 tanks from the Eastern European theatre. Gorbachev’s proposed pullout would take place over the next two years. At the time of Gorbachev’s speech before the UN General Assembly, NATO officials welcomed the idea but maintained that even with these substantial cutbacks the Warsaw Pact will still retain superiority in conventional forces in Europe. Discussing the East German reductions, Honecker assured Western officials that the go-ahead had been given in order to contribute to disarmament and expressed hope that other European nations will be inspired to do the same. Formal East-West negotiations on reducing European conventional military forces will resume in Vienna in March.

MOSCOW: An earthquake that measured 5.5 on the Richter scale struck mountainous Soviet Central Asia at dawn, setting off an enormous landslide that killed about 1,000 people. The epicenter was in a heavily agricultural district of the Tadzhikistan Republic about 18 to 30 miles southwest of Dushanbe, the Tadzhik capital. This most recent earthquake was substantially less powerful than one which killed 25,000 people in Armenia 1,300 miles to the west on December 7.

Will this become the only way to save the panda? The choice is yours. Either save the photo above. Or, help World Wildlife Fund fight poachers, create nature reserves, hire guards, do research, and change things. Help us save life on earth. World Wildlife Fund (0.2 - Dept. A, 1250 24th St. NW Washington, D.C. 20037. WWF Prepared as a public service by Ogilvy & Mather.

Beyond Davidson: National Affairs

Supreme Court to reconsider Roe, Bundy dies in Florida
By HOLLY HAYS

In the Supreme Court:
Abortion: On Tuesday, a day after the 16th anniversary of the Roe vs. Wade decision that legalized abortion, a crowd of anti-abortion demonstrators marched in Washington D.C. President Bush lent his support to their cause in a phone message, decrying abortion as an “American tragedy” and calling for the overturn of the 1973 Supreme Court ruling. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh speculated that the Supreme Court would have to reverse the Roe vs. Wade decision this year.However, it was reported that Louis Sullivan, Bush’s nominee for Secretary of Health and Human Services and only black cabinet appointee, has said privately that he does not support Bush’s abortion agenda.

Affirmative Action: In a 6-3 ruling, the Supreme Court overturned a Richmond law that accorded 30% of city construction funds to minority-run companies. Justice Sandra Day O’Connor wrote the opinion which questioned the use of “rigid numerical quotas.” Justice Thurgood Marshall led the dissenters, claiming that the Monday ruling was a giant step backward from past affirmative action decisions. The Supreme Court’s ruling will affect hundreds of companies with minority hiring practices.

Elsewhere:

Bundy Dies: At 7:16 a.m. January 24, convicted killer Ted Bundy was electrocuted in a Florida state prison nine years and 177 days after being sentenced for the murder of a 12-year-old girl. Over the weekend, Bundy confessed to the murders of at least 33 more young women. “If there was ever anyone... who deserved the electric chair, it was Ted Bundy,” said Florida Governor Bob Martinez on Tuesday, echoing the sentiments of the crowd that gathered outside the prison walls to celebrate the execution.

Busted: Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc., the nation’s fifth largest investment house, was formally charged with fraud on Tuesday. Ivan Boesky is the government’s main witness against Drexel, which is being investigated for insider trading and “sham and bogus securities trades.” Drexel has pleaded not guilty to the charges while it settles a lawsuit with the SEC but is expected to change its plea once negotiations with the SEC conclude. The plea bargain is expected to cost the firm $650 million.

Miami Violence: In the aftermath of Miami’s serious racial violence, sparked by the shooting of a black youth by a white police officer last week, Miami Mayor Suarez and other officials have proposed evaluations of police department policies to determine the extent of racially discriminatory attitudes in the department that have contributed to the recent tensions between blacks and whites. Also in Miami, the San Francisco 49ers squeaked by the Cincinnati Bengals with a touchdown in the last minute to win the Super Bowl 20-16 in the tightest match in recent memory.

TAMBIAH, from page 1

“Never give up,” he said. Tambiah cited the disturbing example of how South Americans, in order to survive, must exploit their natural resources for short-term economic gain. They clear their rain forests for tropical hardwood that is in great demand, and in the process destroy the specialized habitat of the plants and animals that live there. Tambiah said, “Every day, a hundred square miles of rain forests are cleared in Brazil alone.” In the end, this exploitation of rain forests “benefits very few,” he said. “The poor and landless have no choice but to clear the forests,” Tambiah said, but since most of the moisture in tropical rain forests is held in the trees, not the soil, the land becomes infertile in two years' time, and the fields no longer succeed.

The South Americans’ struggle for survival is hardly the only cause for the diminishing wildlife. The United States, Europe, and Japan draw on wildlife for the exotic, and as a result, poaching and illegal importing thrive as there is a constant demand for the hides of caimans, lizards, snakes, and leopards. Tambiah estimates that between 30,000 and 40,000 elephants a year are killed for their ivory. Tambiah asked, “Who is to blame? South America for destroying the wildlife or America for providing the markets?” He also asked, “What do we need to do?” and suggested that we “think globally and act locally.”

“We should educate ourselves, pass what we have learned on to others, think about the products we buy, refuse to support places that exploit wildlife, create awareness and ‘make your word known’ through networking,” he said.