Friday, April 14, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

THE DAVIDSONIAN, 1989-90

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Margaret Carroll, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
This space for rent, Opinions Editor
This one, too, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN, 1988-89

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Margaret Carroll, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
Jay Chaudhuri, Sports Editor
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Julie Zimmerman, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor
Copy Editor: Laura Sizemore.
Assistant News Editor: Suzanne Craymer.
Assistant Features Editor: Trent Stevens.
Assistant Opinions Editor: Ingrid Page.

The End

Congratulations to the 1989-90 Davidsonian staff on their selection! The new staff takes over for next week’s issue while the
current one retires gently, gracefully, almost gratefully. Good luck, guys.

- LETTERS -

Senior Gift

Dear Editor:

I would like to address the senior class about our gift that approximately 1/3 of our class voted on. The
vote was in favor of a service scholarship. Since the vote, I have heard complaints about this gift from various
members of our class. As a member of the gift committee, I found out the difficulty involved in deciding which
gifts you suggested would reach the ballot. We realized that some members of our class, including some members of the
committee, wanted a concrete gift, a statue, a lake pavilion, etc. The committee’s job was to research all possible gifts
in the support the gifts would generate and the feasibility in accomplishing the gifts, i.e., getting a statue built. We
discovered dead ends with many of the gifts. From previous gift experiences, we learned that concrete gifts chosen did not
raise the necessary funds to build them. Many of those gifts still have not been built, either.

See GIFT, page 12

SGA condom referendum

Dear Editor:

The SGA conducted a student body-wide referendum on the condom issue. Five hundred and forty-eight students voted; 72% voted that
the college should provide direct access to condoms for Davidson students, and 28% against. We intentionally worded the referendum to
avoid specifying the means of access. Many students feel that the health concerns surrounding AIDS demand condom access on campus
but are afraid of the infamous “truck stop” image they think will be promoted by having condom machines in the
bathrooms. Now that students have expressed a need for direct access to condoms, it remains to determine what option would
best serve the student body. The SGA has formed a committee of students representing the Senate, the Student Health Options
and Concerns Committee, the Human Resources Committee, and the College Union to look into different methods of availability. Options presented
so far include: availability at the infirmary; first aid boxes or vending machines in dorms that include aspirin, Band-Aids, etc.

See CHILLY, page 12

The DAVIDSON mascot

Dear Sirs:

Amidst the many changes being wrought in the Davidson image, one issue in particular has come to our attention. We
refer, of course, to the college mascot. In the past year, the powers that be at Davidson College have made
a herculean effort to blow the dust off of the Davidson image. Five figures later, we stand, united under the
single, updated logo of DAVIDSON. Perhaps it would be in the better interests of the college to take the bold
step of changing the mascot.

The time is appropriate to discuss the relevance of the wildcat to the sparkling new DAVIDSON image. The wildcat symbol
is as moth-eaten and tattered as the wildcat costumes parading around our sporting arenas. Is it truly appropriate that the
institution which will soon be on the lips of every Northeastern high school guidance counselor as the cutting edge of
collegiate excellence be represented by a cliché? The universities of Kentucky and Arizona, Villanova and Northwestern universities, not to mention
one in every five high schools, claim that feral feline as its mascot. DAVIDSON should have a mascot which proclaims
the unique character and the setting of the college itself. Yes, the time has come for the Gnome. When was
the last time a wildcat was seen on Main Street? Yet who hasn’t seen those cunning little (expensive) creatures in
nearly every nook and cranny in Davidson? They grin congenially at us from shop windows and desktops, from the Commons
to Cornwell Drugs. Picture the scene: it is the first basketball game in the new gymnasium.

See MASCOT, page 12

Ah, the end has come. It’s been a long, difficult, but ultimately very interesting year here at The Davidsonian. From
dorm construction to football divisions to computer thefts to race relations to condoms and now to basketball coaches, the year
has afforded little respite. This issue marks the end of my editorship. It also marks the end of careers for
several seniors who have worked very hard on...The paper to make it a success. First and foremost is Business Manager
John Wightman, who consistently exercised quiet and wise power of the purse. I always knew who the real boss was
around here. John’s greatest service was allowing the editorial side of the paper to be almost completely oblivious to the
business end, and for that, I can never thank him enough. Former Sports Editors Hap Bryant and Whit Wilks spent
a year and a half chronicling with great style the athletic events of this college. A hallmark of sports sections
is that they operate with almost complete independence from the rest of the newspaper; it sometimes seemed merely a matter
of convenience that opinions, news, and features appeared in the same publication as Hap and Whit’s sports. Whether the sports
section is far and away the most important part of the paper as they claim is subject to dispute; that
they made it a bright spot every week is not. Alex Hayden, intrepid Photography Editor, may have set the record
this year for getting the greatest number of pictures of his roommates into the paper. His other work resulted in
some very interesting images in The Davidsonian this year. Alex’s efforts kept the paper visually alive. Kevin Dunn and Michael
Schill, creators of Bob the Carrot and Murf, have been responsible for some serious weirdness in these pages over the
last several years. Tumbling down the stairs to unlock the Union at 2:30 a.m. was never a burden; on the
other side of the doors was Davidson’s (and my) weekly dose of stolen images, witty words, and outright abuse. Bob,
Murf, the Honor Pigs, the secret underground trustie bunker, Suburban Blight, and yes, even Cathy, will be sorely missed. John
Engel created some very familiar characters in Cal ‘n Snake. Though the humor was sometimes reminiscent of “Ergo,” the funky
curved lines that made up John’s entire palette, Cal’s ever-present drink, and the uncanny renderings of Kubla K. and the
beautiful Missie made for an interesting sight each week. Jackie Glynn and David Host presided over one of the busiest
sections of the paper this year: opinions. Each controversy on the news pages this year hit the commentaries pages soon
after. Jackie and David’s work helped steer the flow of campus debate all year long. They worked so hard that
we even gave Jackie this week off (thus, no calendar). Stan Armistead nudged along the artistic flow of the campus
this year in his capacity as Inside Art Editor. The stirring poems and provocative graphics in his section made the
center spread of the paper intellectually “deep” and aesthetically pleasing. The collection of talent on the staff this year made
presiding over this newspaper a pleasure (most of the time). We were offered unusual opportunities to contribute to the campus
dialogue, and I believe that we rose to the challenges presented to us. Thank you all for making this year
a success, and good luck in the future.

Hey ho! This issue marks the last installment of everyone's favorite staff box. It looks like the babes aren’t gonna
carry on this particular tradition. Expect “Pravda” next year in terms of humor. Well, we're going to rest up and
save our best immature, tasteless, and gratuitous parting shots for the upcoming Davidphonian. It is not quite fitting that this
fixture of collegiate journalism go out on a somewhat dignified note, but out it goes.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of The Davidsonian. Unsigned editorials are the responsibility of the Editor. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Special Projects Editor: Maria Douglas.
Assistant Features Editor: Bethany Deptuch.
News Staff: David Bearce, John Burns, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Suzanne Craymer, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood,
Gates Grainger, Heath Hardage, Stan Humphries, Delia Johnson, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Mary Russ, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David
Scott, Gary Wheeler, Molly Young.
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones,
Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon
Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Phil
Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Larry “The Nickname Magnet” Sledge, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.
Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.
Staff Artists: Reese Boyd, Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John “Damn SPE” Mullis, Moreland Smith.
Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.
