The Davidsonian
Friday, November 17, 1989

11

Peter Hughes (#11) attempts to rush the ball past Salisbury State in last weekend's Homecoming match.

Photo by Matt Brentjens

Wildcats end season with long, hard fight

By GIGGY MAXWELL

The locker room was silent after Saturday’s 14-13 loss to the Salisbury State Seahawks. It wasn’t the silence after a
defeat. It was the silence of a team that had fought long and hard this season to overcome mountains of
adversity and had just now realized that their journey together across those mountains was over.

They had succeeded in climbing many of those mountains, and tripped and fallen hard over others, but each week they
regrouped to tackle the next week’s challenge and for that this year’s Wildcat football team is to be commended.

They are also to be commended for the way in which they handled adversity off the field with the division
change and subsequent exodus of 20 of their closest friends. They rallied around each other this year, around the Wildcat
football family and played this season for themselves.

The bond among the 45 players and coaching staff was never more apparent than Saturday as the players filed into
the locker room. Players sat on their stools looking at the floor, the walls, avoiding eye-contact, not wanting to remove
their uniforms because once those come off the season is officially over.

But it was over. Sterling Martin, interim athletic director, and Terry Holland, athletic director-elect, both stopped by to offer their
congratulations for an outstanding season. This was an incredible event when one considers that recent A.D.s didn’t even know where
the football locker room was.

The record books will show that the 1989 Wildcats went 2-8, but a mere 13 points separated them from a
6-4 record.

This year’s football team accomplished a lot more than 2-8 and I’d like to personally thank the Wildcat football family
for letting me be a part of it. No matter what the won-lost record says, you guys know you went
out on top.

So, if you see a football player walking around campus, tell him how much you enjoyed the season. He’d appreciate
it.

The game? Oh. The game. The game Saturday typified the entire 1989 campaign. The Wildcats played erratically enough to keep
within striking distance. Down 14-7 they engineered a perfect 92-yard drive to pull within one. The 2-point conversion attempt was
missed. Somehow that seems a fitting end to the 1989 football season.

1989-90 season awards

W. Lewis McColgan Most Valuable Players:
Michael Rogers (defensive)
Ralph Isernia (offensive)

G. M. King Academic Award:
Harry Schiavi

Fuller Memorial Award:
Harry Schiavi

Douglas Neil Courage Award:
Lee Wagner

Top Newcomer Award:
John Bodkin

IMACtion
And the flickerball champs are... Just Average Guys!
By QUINN McCUTCHEN

In men’s flickerball finals, Sig Ep’s Just Average Guys routed SAE’s Drop & Give 45-6 Monday afternoon.

Cheered on by over 150 fans and over 30 milk jugs, the above teams appeared evenly matched at the onset
of the game. Both drove the length of the field to score on their first possession. From then on, however,
the Just Average Guys could do no wrong.

The Sig Ep team assaulted Drop & Give with a barrage of long bombs and unorthodox plays, such as the
infamous sleeper play. Meanwhile, the SAE team looked bumbling and confused, driving within scoring range just once, only to have
the ball intercepted in the end zone by Rob Grzeszczak who then completed a 74-yard pass to Chris Sward for
a Just Average Guys touchdown. The championship victory assured the Insatiables yet another undefeated season in which they outscored their
opponents 71-0 (according to IMAC records).

In women’s flickerball, Rusk’s Insatiables continued their perennial dominance by blanking Spencer 33-0. Kappa Sigma’s Delta Force edged the International
Team 1-0 to gain the finals and the Internationals slipped by Confusion 3-2 to get back into the finals. The
championship game was played Thursday.

The first round of pre-season basketball is underway. The Little Kings vanquished Thrice Yea 78-24, the All Stars thwarted Prime
Times 30-24, the Nice Guys handed DFWB a most bodacious expugnation 55-49, and Hank Woods' Team forfeited to Bob.
