Monday, April 24, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

College selects class of 1993 - Initial pool shrinks from last year

By GARY WHEELER

The college admissions staff has mailed its acceptance letters for the class of 1993. The average accepted applicant was ranked
in the top three percent of his/her class and scored a 1280 on the SAT. Seventy-five of the 694 applicants
accepted were valedictorians.

This year’s initial pool of 2084 applicants is actually smaller than last year’s figure of 2270, but Davidson is not
the only school to see a drop in applications. The Wall Street Journal reported that applications were down five to
twenty percent at many of the nation’s competitive colleges and universities. The article’s title best describes how colleges have been
handling the situation: “With Applications Down, Colleges Get Friendlier.” The manner in which colleges get friendlier varies between schools, but
many are accepting a larger number of applicants, Davidson included.

According to admissions counselor Mark Swift, the number of accepted applicants is slightly larger than last year, but next year’s
freshman class will also be larger. Last year 664 acceptances were made. The class of 1993 is expected to have
385 students, about 54 percent male and 46 percent female. Swift also anticipates that “fewer people will be taken from
the waiting list.”

This year marks the first time that not all regular decision letters were mailed on the same day. Dean of
Admissions Robert Gardner said that common notification is a tradition that almost everyone has broken. “Nobody abides by common notification
anymore,” Gardner said. Gardner says that anxious parents and students often call and ask, “Can’t you let me know?” Gardner
feels that once a decision has been reached “there is no reason why we can’t let them know.” He says
that the new policy has “taken a lot of the tension out.”

This year’s accepted pool is “more geographically diverse, and is strong in the areas of performing arts and athletics,” added
Gardner. While the admissions staff has made its decisions, many applicants have yet to decide whether they will enroll at
Davidson or go elsewhere. With this provision in mind, Gardner says that in academics, leadership, performing arts, and athletics, the
class of 1993 “could be the best ever.”

AIDS PANEL, from page 1

stressed the position that “all are frail, all will fall and all need mercy.” Murphy also strongly supports making condoms
available on campus. “My first reaction is, I can’t imagine that this is an issue.” Miller was the only member
of the panel who represented the opposing viewpoint. “I believe the institutionalization of condom machines goes against [Davidson] values,” Miller
stated. According to him, installing these machines would be “acquiescing to students who are not living up to certain standards.”

Eaton remained somewhat non-committal in her opinion. “We [the infirmary] have no say in policy making,” she noted. Lindsey moderated
the question-and-answer session that followed these statements. Questions discussed included: “Does the presence of condoms make it harder to say
no to sex?”; “Is abstinence an option?”; “Do condom machines condone or encourage sex?”

Freshman Kim Gaillard said, “I don’t think seeing a condom makes you want to say yes to sex anyway.” Cole
agreed, adding, “People who are going to have sex are going to have sex whether there is a condom machine
there or not.” Miller, however, argued that “I don’t think the presence of a condom machine makes it easy to
say no,” especially in cases where alcohol is involved.

Walters said that she and three other Davidson students had recently attended an AIDS Education Forum. “We are all very
intent on education as the prime goal,” she said. She stressed the Human Resources Committee’s goal of “trying to surpass
this condom controversy and get to the real health issue.” Abstaining from sex is “a positive choice for people,” said
Jen.

Religion professor Trent Foley, member of the AIDS discussion panel, added...Acknowledged that sex is prevalent on campus. “I think there
are more Davidson students who would rather admit to an honor offense than to admit they left Davidson a virgin,”
said Cole. He also recognized, however, “It’s easy to succumb to the pressure” to have sex. “I’m all for abstinence,
too... but I’m a realist,” said Cole. He added that those who advocate abstinence as a cure-all are looking at
the situation “in more idealistic terms.”

Foley acknowledged that sex is prevalent on campus. “I think there are more Davidson students who would rather admit to
an honor offense than to admit they left Davidson a virgin.” Student Government Association President Tripp Helms noted that 72%
of the students surveyed favored condom machines on campus. He said that an SGA committee is being formed to discuss
the issue and then make a recommendation to the college president. Helms stated that the SGA wishes to avoid the
“infamous truck-stop image” that some students think condom machines would confer.

Photo by Alex Hayden
John Freeman, '89, a member of the newly formed Global Issues Research Group, recently led a discussion on South Africa
at the group's weekly meeting. Supported by the Dean Rusk Program, the group will focus upon a different topic each
year in an effort to raise student awareness and to share viewpoints. Everyone is invited to a planning session this
Thursday, Apr. 27, at 9:45 p.m. at the Carolina Inn.

Photo by Alex Hayden
© Alumni Weekend Events included freshman cakewalk “rerun” for ambitious alumni

By SUZANNE CRAYMER
Over 800 alumni, plus their spouses and guests, made the trek to Davidson this past Friday for a huge reunion
weekend. The alumni office had been organizing Alumni Weekend since January. Each class had a reunion committee responsible for planning
individual class events, as well as sending out fliers to urge classmates to attend the reunion.

Assistant to the Director of Alumni Relations Bill Young predicted a record alumni turnout. “More people are coming back this
year because we have an extensive program,” he said. “We’ve added lectures by President Kuykendall, a campus bus tour and
a rerunning of the freshman cake race for the spirited alumnus.” Young was also in charge of planning alumni housing
and parking. Most classes have a “class hotel” assigned to their year. This enabled individuals to meet for parties and
independently-planned functions. Young mentioned parking as a likely problem and contracted for several shuttle-buses to run between Davidson and the
hotels.

Additional activities this year increased the need for student volunteers. Young sent fliers out to last year’s volunteers in an
attempt to recruit students. He also spoke to all presidents of Patterson Court houses concerning a house competition to increase
volunteer participation. The house that recruited the most volunteers will receive a pizza party, compliments of the alumni office. Spencer
House President M. K. Myatt said she volunteered last year because “it’s a good way to show that we care
enough about Davidson to give some of our time.” Volunteers usually worked two-hour shifts during the weekend. The alumni office
asked them to bartend, host or help set up some of the many dinner functions. Some students simply were asked
to talk to alumni and give them an impression of Davidson. “The students act as sounding boards for Davidson today,”
said Young.

The weekend offered volunteers the opportunity to learn what Davidson was like in the past. It also gave them a
chance to talk about the world outside Davidson. Senior Valerie Graves handed out name tags at a 50th reunion last
year. “The people were really funny and friendly,” she said. “It was good to see people come back to see
each other. I felt a kinship with them because they went to Davidson and someday I’ll have the same experience.”

OCEAN VIEW MOTEL
1922
Cable TV + Refrig. + Telephones + Walk to Pavilion, amusements, night clubs, restaurants
One S. Ocean Blvd.
