— Wednesday, September 20, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Committee hoping to recycle response

By BETH BOWEN

Davidson has had a functional recycling program for the past 15 years. Last year alone the campus was responsible for recycling three and a half tons of office paper, a half ton of both glass and newspaper each week, a half ton of aluminum each month, and 12 to 15 bags of plastics each week.

This year the recycling committee is expanding its efforts by overseeing a pilot curbside program in all freshmen dorms and several sophomore dorms. All first-year students have a pink recycling bucket in their rooms and students in Knox, Irwin, and Acres have the option to have a bucket.

Glass, plastic, and aluminum should be deposited in these buckets and taken to the curb at the designated pick-up times: Thursdays 9:30 - 11 a.m. in front of Knox, Acres, and Irwin, and Fridays 9:15 - 11:30 in front of Richardson.

The program is run entirely by volunteers on the recycling committee who are working at capacity picking up the buckets, sorting glass, plastic, and aluminum, and making runs to the recycling centers in Charlotte and Statesville.

There are 45 students on the committee, which is led by student coordinator Dave Murray, and Gerald Hutchinson, director of the Davidson Outdoors Program.

Although these volunteers are instrumental in making the program feasible, the cooperation of all students is vital to make it a success. Caroline Craig, Service Coordinator, urges everyone to be an integral part of campus recycling. She said, “The idea is that everyone is responsible for their own environment and therefore responsible for their own trash.”

All students have the opportunity to recycle in the Union, and students who do not have buckets should devise a system with their hallmates and resident advisors.

Craig would like to see the program accelerated within the next four years so that every student would have the option to have a bucket in his or her room, but the program needs active institutional support and better facilities to reach this level.

Freshmen, hall counselors, and resident advisors play key roles this year in determining the outcome of the new system.

Josh Hickman, hall counselor on second West Belk, thinks that the freshmen on his hall take a genuine interest in recycling. He said, “I think it will work because Davidson students are concerned about their environment. Of course, everyone has other worries, but the buckets are convenient and make them conscious of what they’re doing with their trash.”

Taking a few minutes each day to recycle is no great burden, but the ill effects of not recycling are significant.

Hutchinson asks Davidson students “to think of one way to recycle more effectively and one way to reduce input into the waste stream. Davidson students are leaders, and by choosing to recycle, they will make a difference.”

Ketan Bulsara
Prem Manjooran
Vashist Warah

Carla Badgett
Joe Cook

Independent Senators

Freshman Senators

Jared Baxter, class president

S.G.A. election results
Laura Cunningham — KA—Carter
Anthony Fox — KS—Doug Jobe
Robb Webb — PAX—Doug Hicks
PDT—Tim Harris
Junior Representative
PKA—Jeremy Head
RUSK—Cecily Craighill
Carl Van Osdall — SAE—Tommy Marshall
SPE—Todd Newnam
House Senators
SPN—Amanda Bastian
BSC—Michelle Serrano

DAVIDSON OUTDOORS CENTER

BAHAMA SAILING ADVENTURE

SUNDAY DEC. 31 to MONDAY JAN. 8

Join us for a fantastic sailing adventure in the sunny Bahama Islands over Christmas Recess! We'll board the 57' Ketch "EVERGREEN" about midnight Sunday to begin our trip filled with sailing lessons, snorkeling, beachcombing, and exploring the villages of the Bahama and Bimini Islands.

This is not a “cruise”, but a fun, learning vacation. The emphasis will be on sailing and the oceangoing experience. We will contract a US Coast Guard licensed Captain who will teach us seamanship skills. You will learn to set sails, steer a compass course, cast off, anchor, and moor a "blue water" sailboat. Everyone will be given an equal share of duty, so there will also be plenty of time for relaxing and soaking up the warm, rejuvenating air of the sub-tropics.

We will prepare our own meals (either in the boat's galley, or on a cookout on the beach) from the lockers stocked by our charter agent. In addition, you'll have the option to eat at a restaurant on one or two nights when we'll be in port.

COST: $420.00, includes all costs associated with the charter (boat, captain, food, fuel, dockage, and other incidental expenses), travel between Davidson and Miami, and equipment rental and camping fees for our return trip on Sunday, Jan. 7.

ADDITIONAL EXPENSES are up to the individual; $50.00 pocket money should be more than enough to cover meals in port, modest shopping, as well as three meals on the road.

GROUP SIZE: 14 people maximum.

TRIP LEADER: Gerald Hutchinson, Director, DOC

Snorkeling and fishing gear are included with the sailboat, so we can supplement our diet, as well as explore sunken shipwrecks and coral reefs. This is a great opportunity for those interested in marine biology.

All considered, this will be an action-packed week of “experiential” education and wholesome fun! And it's a GREAT DEAL! Most Bahamas sailing trips cost $600 to $1000! Save money by going with D.O.C.

DEPOSIT OF $50.00 BY SEPT. 25 RESERVES YOUR SPOT (non-refundable).

$150.00 DUE BY OCT. 31
BALANCE DUE BY NOV. 30.

To promote and facilitate healthy group recreation and experiential learning, Davidson Outdoors Center Trips discourage the use of drugs, alcohol, and tobacco products.

SIGN UP AT THE UNION DESK!
DEADLINE IS MONDAY, SEPT. 25