2

Wednesday, November 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Golf, music, science, and politics around the world

Watson Fellowship finalists share their proposals

By MARGARET CARROLL
Last week Davidson announced its four nominees for the Watson Fellowship competition. These four individuals have proposed to study an
area of special interest for the year following graduation. Approximately 75 fellowships are awarded each year throughout the country. Those
selected are: Gates Grainger and Muadi Mukenge, both political science majors; Katherine MacDonald, a psychology major; and Jonathan Darsey, a
Center major in Mexican development studies.

Grainger’s proposal is to study and experience golf in the three biggest golf countries outside of the United States: Japan,
Australia, and Great Britain. Grainger hopes to compare the attitudes of the nations and the culture toward golf and to
trace its development in these countries. Because he is interested in sports, Grainger wanted to investigate the ways that people
in these countries express themselves through golf and why it appeals to groups within the countries. Grainger explained that he
chose Japan because it is “golf crazy,” adding that it costs several million dollars to join a country club there
and that people must reserve tee-off times months in advance.

Grainger plans to spend about six months in Japan, four in Australia, and two in Great Britain. He will travel
and also play in golf tournaments overseas. Grainger said, “I proposed to study golf because I wanted to propose something
that I would enjoy doing. That’s why it’s a unique, maybe even bizarre, original proposal.”

Mukenge’s proposal is to do research on three types of African-based music: soca, zouk, and Congolese. Since African rhythms are
increasingly being incorporated into Western styles, she deems it useful to discover the nature of the music. She will travel
to Trinidad, home to soca; Martinique, home to zouk; and Zaire, home to Congolese. While there, Mukenge will study the
styles’ characteristics, performance, and instrumentation; observe how music is a reflection of national culture and discuss how politics has aided
or hampered the music industry.

Mukenge, originally from Zaire, has just in the past two years become familiar with African and Caribbean popular music and
considers music as her vocation. She sees this proposal as a rare opportunity to find out more about African culture
and even plans to learn how to play two percussion instruments. Mukenge will spend three months in each place and
then go to Europe and look at the styles as they are manifested in European culture.

While in Trinidad, Mukenge hopes to attend the annual masquerade-style Carnival in which musicians from all over the Caribbean perform.
Mukenge said, “I will have direct access to the music and the musicians. I will be able to record jam
sessions, conduct interviews, attend performances, and conduct library research.”

MacDonald’s proposal is to conduct research in neuroscience at the University of Munich with Bernard Sable, M.D., and in Argentina
with Enrique Torre, M.D. She hopes to research Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s diseases, noting in particular how scientific research in these
two countries is affected by the economy and other factors. MacDonald will work with Sable, whose research relates to Parkinson’s
and Alzheimer’s. She will also work with Torre, whose research consists of a molecular approach to brain injuries. MacDonald will
conduct studies with rats with brain lesions. She plans to study the process called sprouting, whereby neurons in the rat’s
brain recover from injuries.

MacDonald became interested in neuroscience while doing an internship at the Duke hospital neuroscience division, where she worked primarily with
Alzheimer’s patients. When she came to Davidson, she continued her interest by working with laboratory rats.

Darsey’s proposal is to go to Mexico, Spain, and Nicaragua to talk to politicians, intellectuals, and business leaders about how
these countries are moving from authoritarian forms of government to liberalization. Darsey did research on the subject in San Diego
this summer and became highly interested in the Mexican political situation. For the first time in Mexico’s history, the PRI
(Institutional Revolutionary Party) lost a state election (in Baja California). In the last presidential election, the PRI only won by
a small majority.

Darsey said that this is the first time that the PRI has been open and honest about the actual election
results in the country. In the past, it has either rigged elections or denied opposing political parties. Darsey also noted
that since the autocrat General Francisco Franco died in 1975, Spain has had more of a western democratic government. Nicaragua
is also scheduled to have free elections in the upcoming year.

Each of these countries has been more receptive to foreign capital and trade. Darsey wants to study not only the
history behind these movements toward liberalization but also the effects and influences upon the common people in each of the
countries.

Calling all snoops and gossips...

Don’t let those juicy news tidbits go by unpublished! Call The Davidsonian at 892-2148 and get those hot tips in
print. We love dirt!
