Friday, March 31, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Student papers presented, to be published

Three Davidson students recently presented papers at the Eighth Annual Emory Undergraduate Sociology Symposium (EUSS) in Atlanta, Ga. Ismat Husain,
’90, Lita Dwight, ’89, and Charles Houck, ’89, were part of 30 students from across the nation whose works were
selected from an initial pool of several hundred sociology students. Husain’s paper, entitled “Black and Asian Immigrants in East and
Central Africa,” was written as part of an independent study in sociology. Dwight explored the subject of “College Females Performing
Dumb Roles,” while Houck discussed “Irving Goffman Meets Animal House: Team Behavior and the College Fraternity.”

In addition to student papers, addresses were delivered by Katrina Johnson of the School of Public Health and staff member
of the Centers for Disease Control. The papers will be published by EUSS in December and a copy will be
made available in the Davidsoniana Room. The Department of Sociology/Anthropology annually encourages its majors to submit papers to the symposium.

Environmental Week: April 5 - 8

The Davidson College Recycling Committee will sponsor Environmental Week April 5 - 8. The following events are scheduled: April 5
— A demonstration on Chambers Lawn and a movie in the 900 Room at 9:45; April 6 — The Sierra
Club and Duke Power will speak in Chambers Gallery at 11 a.m. and a lecture entitled “Environmental Issues in the
90s” will be delivered by a Greenpeace representative in Love Auditorium at 7:30; April 7 — “The Emerald Forest” and
“Never Cry Wolf” will be shown in the 900 Room at 7:15 and 9:45; April 8 — The Environmental Fair.

Knight Foundation awards $250,000 to Love of Learning

The Knight Foundation has awarded $250,000 to the Love of Learning program, implemented at a cost of nearly $4 million
over eight years. The program focuses on getting students on a college-bound track and supporting it through school, family, and
community. The funds were awarded to eight private liberal arts colleges through the new Excellence in Undergraduate Education program established
by the foundation. Ten grants, ranging from $100,000 to $250,000, will be awarded annually. All grants must be matched by
the recipient colleges.

Union Carbide physician discusses Indian chemical disaster

Media overshadowed good intentions of plant, he says

By GARY WHEELER

Bipin Avashia, company physician for Union Carbide and professor at the University of West Virginia Medical School, spoke on the
1984 chemical disaster in Bhopal, India in his March 28 lecture in the 900 Room. The disaster involved an explosion
of a tank containing MIC (methyl isocyanate). MIC causes swelling of the eyes. The gas also floods the lungs --
and in severe cases, can choke people to death. In Bhopal, a city of about 800,000, at least 390 people
were choked to death by the chemical and 20,000 more were injured in the accident.

Avashia was flown into Bhopal shortly after the disaster occurred. He and several other Union Carbide physicians served as consultants
to the doctors in Bhopal. Avashia said that the plant in Bhopal was losing money and planning to shut down.
However, while in operation the plant did not have the necessary safeguards that it should have had which would have
prevented the accident. Although the plant was a Union Carbide facility, it was being run solely by Indian management.personnel, stated
Avashia. To have paid American technicians would have meant to pay in American dollars—a venture far too expensive for an
underdeveloped country like India, he continued. Although MIC can be deadly, Avashia emphasized that, when reacted properly with other chemicals,
it can be very useful. This particular plant was using MIC to produce a pesticide, and Avashia disclosed that using
pesticides can increase crop yields “at least fifty percent.” Avashia stated that while the chemical business tries to make chemicals
useful to mankind, the media scares the public by “taking something that is bad and turning it into something that
is much worse.”

Phi Beta Kappa Elected to Membership February 1989
Ann Louise Allen
Edward Tae Kim
Arlene Joy Bach
Sebastian Koch
Elizabeth Long Bostik
Kyong Shin Lee
Daniel Glenn Bowman
April Dawn Loving
Renier Joseph Brentjens
Peter George Mangone
Harry Lee Broome, Jr.
Barbara Lynn Matheny
Justin John Gold Broughton
Julia Snead McCrorey
Harry Smoak Bryant, Jr.
Carolyn Meade Neale
Ronald Craig Carlock, Jr.
Susan Martin Park
Allison Anne Chapman
Drew George Peel
Philip Earle Clifford
Jeffrey Michael Petry
John Robert Coleman, Jr.
John Payne Scherer, II
Dixon Courson Cunningham
Mary Elisabeth Schwalbe
Christine Helen Curtin
Heather Jean Stewart
Samuel Thomas Cutting
Lisa Place Stewart
Elizabeth Ann Dolan
Stephanie Ann Thomas
Ann Elizabeth Edwards
Frederick George Wenzel, IV
Daniel Stephen Grau
Elizabeth Grimes Whitaker
Jeffrey Steele Gregory
Sarah Louise Whitesides
Raymond Jackson Harshbarger
Benjamin Allen Yarbrough
Caroline Gisela Hoffman
Julie Helene Zimmermann
Martha Coleman Johnson

Visiting humanities professor offered tenure
By MARIA DOUGLAS

Rosemarie Tong, visiting distinguished professor of humanities at Davidson, has been offered tenure status effective immediately. The Board of Trustees
approved Tong’s tenure at their February meeting. Tong, winner of the 1986 CASE award, will hold the John Thatcher professor
of medical humanities chair beginning in the fall of 1989. According to Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, the chair has
been unoccupied for three or four years. “We had a chair available to give and we had her here,” said
Williams. “We hired her because she is an absolutely outstanding teacher.”

Tong will be responsible for developing medical humanities. “My major responsibility will be to get a program going in the
next three years,” she said. “The idea of the program is not to serve just pre-med students, but to be
of interest to people concerned with dying and getting sick—the large-scale social and economic impact of medicine,” Tong stated. Medical
humanities is concerned with the problems of life and death—disease and sickness in biology and philosophy, sociology, anthropology, history, and
literature, Tong said. “You get the notion that medical humanities has a lot to do with humanizing the distress in
society,” she continued.

Tong’s first course will deal with ethical issues in modern medicine. She hopes the class will reach a wide range
of students from different disciplines. Topics discussed will include health care delivery, patient confidentiality, euthanasia, abortion, and reproductive and genetic
technology. “I’m not fully happy just doing disciplinary work, nor am I fully happy doing interdisciplinary work,” Tong said. Medical
humanities offer a “balance,” which she prefers. Tong, who holds a doctorate in philosophy, will teach other philosophy courses in
addition to humanities. She taught at Williams College for ten years before coming to Davidson.

“This is a wonderful thing for Davidson College,” said Williams. “We hope she will have an impact on the college
in the areas of medical humanities, women’s issues, and ethics.”

Visiting professor Rosemarie Tong, winner of the 1986 CASE Teacher of the Year Award, will become a permanent part of
Davidson’s faculty next year. Photo courtesy of College Relations.
