Davidson gets a pub! page 5

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 4

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, September 20, 1989

S.A.T.s optional for Davidson admission?

Advisory Council considers pros and cons

By GARY WHEELER
The Advisory Council for Admissions and Financial Aid is considering recommending that the Scholastic Aptitude Test (S.A.T.) be an optional part of the application process at Davidson College. The council met last week to discuss the matter.

Ruth Ault, chairman of the council, said that applicants that chose not to submit their S.A.T. scores would be required to submit Achievement Test scores instead. Making S.A.T.s optional would simply be a move that would substitute “one form of testing for another,” she said.

Ault added that the council has just begun to consider the matter. “We're not that far along in the process,” she said. If the council were to recommend optional S.A.T.s in a formal proposal, then the proposal would have to be presented to the college president and the Board of Trustees.

Some other liberal arts colleges have already decided to make the S.A.T. optional. Bowdoin has not required S.A.T. scores since 1969, Bates voted in optional S.A.T.s in 1984, and Middlebury made the shift in 1987.

William Hiss, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid at Bates College, is concerned that the S.A.T.’s importance has been exaggerated by both applicants and deans. Instead of serving as just one of many predictors of college success, the S.A.T. has become “a kind of shorthand or code word for the health and quality of an institution,” Hiss wrote in his article “Optional S.A.T.s: The First Two Years at Bates College.”

“Average scores,” Hiss said, “exert sometimes not-so-subtle pressure on college deans to deny students who they know can do good work at the institution.”

Hiss is confident that Bates’ admission staff can make good decisions without the S.A.T. scores.

See S.A.T., page 3

73 freshmen choose Davidson “plus” a little more

By SUSANNAH WELLFORD
This year’s crop of entering freshmen were given the opportunity to add a “plus” onto their Davidson experience. Seventy-three men and women from the freshmen class volunteered to enter an experimental new program called “Davidson Plus.” Will Terry, dean of students, conceived the idea.

The program is designed to help build confidence in the students and strengthen their moral values and community awareness. For four hours each week the students will attend seminars and workshops on topics such as time management, race relations, community building, stress management, sex roles, career planning, and personal goal setting.

The students live together on halls set aside for Davidson Plus, and will attend several retreats throughout the year. Each student will also participate in a service project.

Davidson Plus signed a contract stating that they would cooperate fully in the program and would commit to keeping a journal of their experiences and their reactions to Davidson Plus. The students will also choose a faculty mentor.

Terry felt there was a strong need for such a program on campus. Davidson Plus is an attempt to revitalize the moral atmosphere at Davidson, he said. Through the workshops and seminars, Terry hopes to make the students feel secure about themselves and confident about their values so that they can serve as role models for other Davidson students. Terry theorizes that Davidson Plus will have a “trickle down” effect and end up benefiting the entire Davidson Community. Terry told The Campus Chronicle, “We hope it will help students develop the personal security it takes to stand up to their values. That will help them speak out.”

See PLUS, page 3

Ramirez chosen N.C. Professor of the Year from 500 nominees

By TRINA JANIEC
Julio Ramirez, associate professor of psychology, was recently named North Carolina Professor of the Year by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE).

Ramirez was also named one of 11 distinguished gold medal winners in the country. Ramirez's award makes him the sixth Davidson professor in five years to be recognized by CASE.

“No other school in the country has a record comparing to Davidson,” said Ann Mosle, a public affairs assistant at CASE.

Davidson nominated Ramirez in May. Ramirez was required to submit his curriculum vitae to CASE along with letters of recommendation from students and colleagues. He was selected from a pool of over 500 nominees.

Ramirez’s selection reflects his commitment to his field.

“The future of the human race and of all the species we share this planet with will depend upon our commitment as scientists to improve the quality of life, all life,” said Ramirez.

Ramirez hopes the award will allow him to publicize his viewpoints.

“As a scientist, I have a certain set of concerns which generally involve the lack of scientists in the United States now," said Ramirez. "I think this seriously threatens our economic and scientific prominence in the future.”

Ramirez worries about the shortage of women and minorities being trained in the sciences, saying the situation is “absolutely abysmal.”

Ramirez graduated magna cum laude from Fairfield University in Connecticut, earned masters and doctoral degrees in biopsychology from Clark University in Massachusetts in 1983, and did post-doctoral work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

At Davidson, he is teaching an introductory psychology course and several upper-level courses in neuroscience.