10

Women’s soccer ends after a good first year

Leading scorer Lindsey Forsythe already chosen to lead next year's team

By SPIDER WORMUTH

The women’s varsity soccer program ended its season on a somewhat disappointing note on Saturday. For their final game, the
Lady Wildcats faced a talented squad from Virginia Tech, and they started out very sluggishly.

In the first nine minutes, Tech scored three goals on the tentative Wildcats. The first half continued in much the
same dismal fashion with Virginia Tech scoring three more times, and, when halftime mercifully arrived, the ‘Cats were down 6-0.

After the half, and apparently quite a halftime speech by Coach Boettcher, Davidson came roaring back. Though faced with a
seemingly insurmountable deficit, not unlike the federal government’s, the home team continuously pressured the Tech goal and finally scored on
some marvelous dribbling and finishing by Lindsey Forsythe.

Davidson continued to dominate and would score once more. Lindsey again beat her defender and fired a shot on goal.
The shot was deflected by the Tech goalkeeper, but Maria Tucker put away her eighth goal of the season. Despite
their control of the second half, the Lady Wildcats were unable to score more and they dropped the game, 6-2.

The women’s team is now looking forward to their second season, and Coach Boettcher is already preparing off-season workout schedules
in order to make the Davidson team a dominant one next year. In the team’s final meeting of the season,
Lindsey Forsythe, last year’s leading point scorer, was elected to be the 1990 captain.

[the sports front]

November 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Elizabeth McLaughlin, #23, edges the ball past a Virginia Tech player, but the 'Cats lost 2-6. The young team nevertheless
finished with a 4-7-1 record.

Courtesy of Sports Information

The field hockey team finished the season last weekend at the Deep South Tournament in High Point, NC, by winning
three games and losing two.

“It was unfortunate that we lost to the tournament winner, Wake Forest, in overtime,” said coach Betsy Pryor. “We played
three full games including three overtime periods, and in the end we were exhausted.”

In the first round the Wildcats defeated Salem, 4-0 on goals by Mary Russ, Simone Plaisance, and Monique Dockter (2).
In the second round Davidson was sent to the losers bracket on a 2-0 loss to Catawba. The Wildcats held
the Indians scoreless in the second half but couldn’t manage to score.

In the next round the Cats beat Appalachian State 2-1 in overtime. They then advanced to defeat High Point 3-0
for the third time this season. Gigi Cooke scored twice and Russ had one goal.

In the semifinal match against Wake Forest, the team lost in overtime 2-1. Dockter scored at 2:30. The Deacons tied
it up with 40 seconds remaining in regulation to send it into overtime. The exhausted Wildcats could not hold on
to the game, and Wake scored to advance into the final round. Six Davidson players were selected for the Deep
South All-Tournament team. Juniors Marjorie Havighurst and Cooke and freshman Jennifer Roos will play on the first team. The second
team will include Russ, and the third team will feature Beth Pharr and Elizabeth Dahm. The team plays in the
Southeast Tournament in Virginia Beach next weekend.

EMPRESS OF CHINA Restaurant
15% Dinner Discount For All Davidson Students With Valid Davidson I.D.
OFFER GOOD NOV 1 - JAN 31

Specializing in Mandarin, Hunan, Szechuan & Cantonese Cuisine (cooked without MSG upon request)

Norman Crossing 1-77/Exit 28 Cornelius Take-out Service

Sunday Lunch Buffet 11:30-2:30 Mon-Fri Lunch Buffet 11:30-3:00

892-9856

Fri: 11:30-11:00 Sat: 5:00-11:00
