Friday, November 17, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cars illegally parked in Belk parking lot will be towed on weekends

Beginning this weekend, all cars illegally parked in Belk parking lot will be towed. The SGA worked in conjunction with campus security to start this procedure in response to the problem of cars that park in the center of the rows, thus blocking in legally parked cars.

Abbott nominated for Pulitzer Prize

News Shorts

St. Andrew’s Press nominated English Department Chair Anthony Abbott's book, The Girl in the Yellow Raincoat, as its candidate for the 1990 Pulitzer Prize.

Craymer’s paper accepted for International Congress of Medieval Studies Conference

A paper written by Suzanne Craymer has recently been accepted for the International Congress of Medieval Studies in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The paper, "Religious Imagery Within the Madonna and Chancellor Rolin," was composed for the 8th Annual Conference.

Pew Grant

HOLLAND, from page 1

...the circumstances, with all the turmoil in the intercollegiate end of it, but also in our physical education and intramural programs, as well as our commitment to Title IX and the women’s programs. And, beyond that, I think obviously all the sports need expanded facilities and better facilities, with the exception of ones that are going to be able to use this particular facility. But the Baker Sports Complex only points out how some of the other sports do need facilities right away. Obviously, they are not going to be done immediately.

The Davidsonian: Would you like to elaborate upon any other long-term goals?

Holland: I think that in the long term the main thing we will have to be concerned about is that Davidson finds its niche in the athletic world. Certainly, there are a lot of pitfalls in competing in intercollegiate athletics, particularly at the Division I level, and we like to think that we can be a leader in that regard, as opposed to a follower.

The Davidsonian: Will football continue at Davidson?

Holland: Well, we are certainly expecting it to. I think Division II is the proper level for our football program at the present time. And it’s going to take a lot of hard work. I don’t think there is any question about that. I think what this year’s team and the coaching staff did is phenomenal under the circumstances, with all the turmoil both for Him & Her, and certainly the number of players who left the program last year and the small number of players who came back this year. But the student body response, people coming out for the team, as well as the students cheering them, certainly made a difference this year.

The Davidsonian: Can we compete in Division III in football and compete at other levels in other sports?

Holland: Yes. You are allowed to compete in Division III. And, I think again that is where Davidson should be, at this particular time in its history. We can compete at the Division I level in other sports. We are going to have to continue to improve, again, all our facilities and everything else to maintain that stance.

The Davidsonian: Now that we have the natatorium, will we soon have a swim team?

Holland: We do have the natatorium and it is certainly a first-class facility that was built mainly because we would like to have a swimming program here for both men...and women.

The Davidsonian: How do you feel about the Complex? Do you think it will increase enthusiasm among students and alumni?

Holland: I think it has to make everyone feel good about what Davidson is doing. And again, the key to it is that we continue to do it in the right way; in the efforts to make sure that everybody has a chance to use this facility.

The Davidsonian: What do you think about the ticket policy?

Holland: Well, you know the ticket policy right now is a tough one because we’re starting from scratch, trying to come up with a ticket policy. All we can do is look at other schools and try to determine what's been done at other places and what we think will work here. And I think Sterling (Sterling Martin, Interim Athletic Director) and the people in the athletic administration, as well as the college administration, have done a good job of listening to all parties and have tried to formulate a policy that is best for Davidson. But nobody’s going to know until we’ve had a chance to live with it for a few years.

The Davidsonian: Will you share thoughts and feelings about retiring to Davidson?

Holland: Well, you know, people ask me that quite often. But with a whole year of Virginia basketball ahead of me it’s hard to think much about it. I’ve got to focus on the task at hand there. Certainly, my feelings last summer when I took the job have not changed. We are looking forward to returning to Davidson and the people that we knew, as well as the college that we respect and love. So, I’d have to say we will be looking forward to it in the spring. Right now my main job is to coach the basketball team at Virginia.

New policy on campus fights

Dean of Students Will Terry is requesting henceforth that the Davidson College police arrest any student, alumnus, or visitor who is caught starting a fight with any other student, alumnus, or visitor. Also, he wishes to encourage any student, alumnus, or visitor to bring charges against the individual guilty of assaulting him/her. When the accused has been dealt with by the court, the college will take appropriate action.

UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES

Our Fall programs are exciting, extremely attractive, and very affordable. Come see our Dresswear, and Sportswear; great for Campus wear.

PICTURE PERFECT PROCESSING
In as little as One hour. 

REAL WORLD
Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues. Special fields: International relations, interamerican relations, international business, comparative development, strategic studies. Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, and the Middle East. Fellowships and other financial aid available. Apply by February 15.

For Davidson Students With Valid Davidson ID:
Free Second Prints (Limit two rolls with this ad)

20619 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Southlake Shopping Center
Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 892-5400

PICTURE PERFECT PHOTO INC.
128 North Main St.
Downtown Mooresville
Between Roses and Harris Teeter
A Little Bit Faster...A Whole Lot Better