N Wednesday, November 1, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN X News Shorts

October also included several demonstrations of specific pe like Computer Fest to become an annual event. Last Wednesday’s Computer Fest, a demonstration of some of the latest in computer technology and relevant software, was just one of the many events and presentations included in Computer Learning Month. Sue Varga-Ward, assistant director of academic computing, said that the Computer Fest was the first time that Davidson has presented all of its vendors at one time. She said that the Computer Fest will now be an annual event. “It is an opportunity for faculty, students, and staff to see the latest in technology, relevant software, and to ask the vendors questions,” Varga-Ward said. IBM’s ISAAC and Apple’s HyperCard.

First aid boxes installed in dorms

U.S. Aid installed first aid boxes in most dorm bathrooms last week. There were 38 boxes installed at the rate of $90 per box. The boxes contain such supplies as aspirin, butterfly bandages, and band-aids. Director of Residence Life Richard Terry arranged for the purchase of the first aid boxes on the advice of Dean of Students Will Terry and the recommendations of resident advisors.

“You Won't Die,” but Manley’s tales of living with an aboriginal tribe may make you laugh real hard

By JENNIFER SIECK

Imagine this: You are in a foreign country to observe a kind of people who remain isolated and relatively untouched by 20th-century global society. You do not speak their language and they speak little, if any, of yours. You remember movies like Tarzan and Hogan's Heroes and stories of other “noble savages” and cannibals and imagine that perhaps you will have a similar encounter with these people. You feel confident and maybe even a bit superior in your potential abilities to interact with these native people. These are some of the feelings Roger Manley experienced while photographing aborigines in Australia. Manley told of his adventures in a talk entitled “You Won’t Die: Life as a Member of an Aboriginal Tribe.”

Manley received a Watson Fellowship upon graduating from Davidson in 1975. He proposed to study the effects of industrial development in Australia simply because Australia was far away from Davidson. Manley’s adventures began when two aborigines stowed away in his land rover while he was visiting their reservation. He planned to take them ten miles out of the guarded area so they could return to their communities. However, the two rather wild-looking aborigines used facial expressions and body language to indicate that they wanted to continue driving. Manley drove through the night under the navigation of his two passengers. They traveled into the desert until the land rover broke down. While Roger Manley frantically tried to fix the vehicle, his passengers left to find a source of water. Manley discovered that two people were needed to repair the land rover. He tried talking to the aborigines in Tarzan-type language, such as “This is wrench,” “This is bolt,” “Put wrench on bolt.” Yet his companions failed to understand. It took several days to fix the transmission on the land rover. Even after that, it only ran in first gear.

Manley expected the villagers to receive him with reverence. Yet the aborigines remained unimpressed by his modern conventions. Their name for him was the same as that of an elderly man in the tribe. Manley thought they called him “wise one” or “chief.” Much to Manley’s chagrin, he found out that it meant “senile.” He got no special treatment.

Campus crime corner

Andy Schwab’s wallet was stolen from the locker room during the soccer game. A thief entered Hayler Osborn’s unlocked room in Belk last week and stole $3 from his wallet. The wallet was on top of a pile of clothes. Watch those wallets and lock your doors. Molly Yarbrough reported $200 worth of damage to her blue Volkswagen parked in the Fine Arts parking lot on Friday, October 26. The left back side of the car was damaged. If you have any information regarding this crime, please call campus security.from the aborigines. In fact, he described his place in their community as that of a stray dog—they fed him because he hung around and couldn’t hunt for himself. He was never involved in heavy conversations. Although he was able to pick up some vocabulary, he had considerable difficulty. There were eight male and eight female clans, each of which had its own unique vocabulary. Manley lived with this tribe for eight months before a plane flying overhead spotted his disabled land rover. Manley said the villagers felt bad when he left because he provided their source of entertainment. When he finally contacted his parents in the United States, Manley was not made a hero. When he called them by radiophone, his mother responded, “Oh, hi. Everything going okay?”

TICKETS, from page 1

Both Smith and O’Rourke expressed concern with students sitting in apparently empty seats which turn out to belong to a contributor. “We don’t want to anger the guy that gives a million dollars to the arena,” said Smith. “What happens if he gets mad and pulls his money?” Surprisingly, O’Rourke and Smith stated that they and coach Bob McKillop had to fight some members of the administration to get students on the bottom level at all. “Names and tales don’t mix,” said Smith. “But we really had to work to get some people to even give you this many seats.” The policy was conceived by O'Rourke, Smith, and McKillop. Several ideas were presented to a committee of ten “prominent” students for their reaction. “They gave us some ideas and made some requests that we followed, like the first come, first serve policy,” said O’Rourke. “This is a good, long-term policy.” O’Rourke wants students to realize that this policy can be changed if it doesn’t work out, “but I hope we can give it a chance. We're looking down the road to when every game is sold out and Davidson is winning its conference championship. Not many successful teams reserve seats for the entire student body.” O’Rourke said the success of the Wildcats will make the policy necessary. “We will sell this place out.”

Beyond Davidson

Soviet officials give Hungary option to leave Warsaw Pact

By CAROL GATEWOOD

SOVIET UNION: Western observers were confronted with a sweeping policy change in the Soviet Union on Sunday. Soviet officials indicated that Hungary could leave the Warsaw Pact by its own choice. Questions about Hungary’s membership in the alliance have come to light since the Hungarian Communist party voted to dissolve itself and reform under a democratic socialist organization. The group will be part of a multi-party system of government.

EAST GERMANY: Thousands of East Germans attended public meetings in three large cities and took part in an open dialogue with Communist leaders. The East German citizens complained to leaders about police abuses that have occurred in recent protests against the government. Egon Krenz, who replaced Erich Honecker as head of the East German government, established the dialogue. Public opposition to Honecker’s policies led to his removal.

SPAIN: Results from last weekend’s elections in Spain were announced on Sunday. Although not all votes were accounted for, it appears that the Socialist Worker's Party will remain in power under Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez. Socialists have been in power in Spain for seven years, but their voter support has been declining.

NICARAGUA: Last weekend at a peace conference held in Costa Rica, Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega announced a decision to renew military combat operations against the U.S.-backed contras. As The New York Times reported, Ortega expected a positive reception, however, his decision backfired when most participants criticized the plan.

A FREE GIFT JUST FOR CALLING PLUS, RAISE UP TO $1,700 IN ONLY TEN DAYS.

Student groups, fraternities, and women's eating houses needed for marketing project on campus. Student group officers call 1-800-950-8472 ext.0 for details and a FREE GIFT.