Do you love the outdoors? Enjoy working with people? Want to go on adventurous trips to beautiful places? Want to learn outdoor skills and situational leadership?

Are you a sophomore or junior and can make a commitment to lead at least 2 weekend trips a year?

Then apply for a position with us!

We're looking for energetic women and men to train for positions as Trip Leaders. Candidates need not be "experts," but some experience in the outdoors could be helpful. Basically, we need leaders with "people skills," good judgment, and a sincere interest in providing quality outdoor experiences for other people.

Trip Leader Training will consist of 8 three-hour sessions on Monday nights between now and Spring Break, two weekend Adventure Training Challenges, and successful completion of Red Cross CPR and Standard First-Aid classes.

If you are interested, then please submit a letter of interest and a vitae outlining:
1) Previous outdoor experience,
2) Leadership experiences,
3) Community-service experience.

All applicants will be considered.

DEADLINE: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19

Please Contact:

Gerald Hutchinson
Director, Davidson Outdoors Center
College Union

---

WAY BEYOND, from page 2

comes from the fact that many of the traffickers own legitimate businesses in Colombia, ranging from office buildings, radio stations, and discotheques. Since "narcodollars" are so entrenched in Colombian society, the crackdown and the elimination of coca cultivation will require new economic development throughout the country.

EAST GERMANY/HUNGARY: At midnight on Monday, the government of Hungary removed its frontier borders, allowing more than 7,000 East German refugees to seek free passage to the country of their choice. This one massive exodus has involved over 70,000 East Germans. The refugees are leaving their country dissatisfied with the East German authorities who "will never embrace the kind of political and economic reforms that are now liberalizing societies in Poland, Hungary, and the Soviet Union."

East Germans have been protesting weekly in Leipzig, donning buttons with portraits of Gorbachev and demanding that their government copy his new policies. East German authorities won’t change, maintaining that any step towards a pluralist democracy and free-market economy "would undermine justification for a second German state." This large exodus has had damaging effects upon the country’s economy and now it is threatened with a great shortage of skilled workers.

MANAGUA: Criticism has come from both the government and the opposition in Nicaragua towards a plan unveiled by the U.S. that may provide up to $3 million openly to the opposition’s election campaign to be held on February 25. The money would be channeled through the National Endowment for Democracy upon Congressional approval. Both sides in Nicaragua fear that such a move would lead to further U.S. involvement through the CIA and threaten the legitimacy of popular vote.

---

Wednesday, September 13, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON OUTDOORS CENTER IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR TRIP LEADERS