houses have

Homecoming photos! page 5-7

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 10

Friday, November 17, 1989

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

College as landlord falls below standards with low-income housing
He turned to Habitat for Humanity to help house employees

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Davidson Habitat for Humanity house; Elsa Meredith Hospital in Charlotte.

Davidson College owns and rents low-income houses on Eden Street which, over the last few years, have attracted the attention of the Mecklenburg County Building Standards Department. Two of the houses have been deemed uninhabitable, and their occupants have moved. One family moved to the first Davidson Habitat for Humanity house; the other occupant currently resides at Elsa Meredith Hospital in Charlotte.

Last spring an inspector from the Mecklenburg County Building Standards Department notified the college that house 211 failed to meet building standards. “It was not condemned,” said Business Office Assistant Gail Hoke. “If it had been, we would have been given 30-60 days to evict the tenant. The man turned his head and gave us some time to help the tenant out.”

Last spring the college received notice that major changes were needed to avoid condemnation. The house was fully renovated a few weeks ago, but the building debris still covers the yard. Termite damage rendered the porch unsafe. Both the kitchen and bathroom floors were rotted, and the whole house needed to be rewired and to have the plumbing redone.

“We were not aware that it was in such serious damage,” said Hoke. “The college is not a slum lord by any stretch.”

Herman Burton, a longtime college employee who rents the house for $35 a month, did not want to move from his home to a new location. When asked about the avenues explored after the college learned the house did not meet standards, Burton refused to comment.

Apparently, one of the first possibilities investigated for Burton was a home built by Habitat for Humanity. Hoke contacted both Executive Vice President Ken Wood and Service Coordinator Caroline Craig to inquire if it would be possible for Habitat to build Burton a home. “The Family Selection Committee...

See LANDLORD, page 3