Monday, April 24, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

YSSC News allowed on campus.

Kappa Sigma, Cashion’s and First Charter sponsor M.A.D.D. run

Kappa Sigma sponsored a run with Cashion’s and First Charter this past Saturday, April 22, to raise money for Mothers
Against Drunk Driving (M.A.D.D.) Charlotte chapter. Sixty runners collected sponsors and ran one mile each in a 46-mile relay. The
fraternity estimates $1,000 raised. First Charter provided t-shirts for the participants.

A 24-hour service hotline has been installed to enable students interested in service opportunities to receive information on weekly activities.
The number is 892-2032. A video describing service projects is also available in the Union. Here’s a list of what’s
going on now:

- Adult Literacy: Beth Duttera, -6294. Students tutor adults in the community.
- Big Brother: Tad Little, -6564. Students are paired with area boys. The whole group went to the circus, and
they are working on Campus Cards for Little Brothers to be legally -
- Big Sister: Debbie deSola, -6472; Mary Faith Mount, -6300. Students are paired with Cornelius Elementary girls.
- CROP: Angali Sharma, -6461; Molly Graver, -6079. CROP lunch is held every Sunday in the 900 room from 1-2
p.m. Plans are now being made for next fall’s CROP walk.
- Davidson Day Care: Meredith Gabel, -6030. Volunteers are needed to visit the Day Care Center in the afternoon and
play with the kids.
- Davidson Elementary Tutoring: Susan Wilson, -6338; Stephanie Wyatt, -6356. Volunteers tutor Mon.-Thurs. 3:15-5 p.m. Sign up for any day.
- Florence Crittenden: Louisa Weinrich, -8122. Volunteers visit the home for unwed mothers every Wednesday.
- Habitat for Humanity: Tindal Davis, -6597; Robbie McKay, -6629; Julia Boyd, -6589. The first house was finished last week
and work is being done on the second house. Volunteers are needed Sat. 8-5 and Sun. 2-5.
- North Meck YMCA: Brian Gatchel, -6514; John Patton, -6207. Contact if you are interested in coaching or refereeing some
kids’ games.
- Oxfam/Hunger Issues: Sandra Smith, -7104; March 6-10: Canned goods and a total of $150 were collected to restock the
Metrolina Food Bank. Volunteers are needed for the community hot lunch program - Convince your eating house to participate.
- Prison Visitation: Matt Terrell, -6507. Only guys can visit the Huntersville minimum-security prison on Fridays.
- Seigle Ave: Kathy Beach, -6302; Katy Reynolds, -6338. Students travel to Charlotte Wednesday evening to help with elementary school
kids.
- Senior Citizen: Julie Earle, -6219.

Computer virus destroys 636 psychology programs

By MUADI MUKENGE

A computer virus by the name of nVirA eradicated over 636 psychology programs and also appeared on computers at the
Computer Services Center and the Center for Special Studies before being destroyed Wednesday. The virus attacked only Apple computers. Associate
Professor of Biology John Brockway said that the virus first manifested itself on the 11th of April in computers located
in the sensory and perception laboratories in basement Chambers. He suspects that an infected 3 1/2" disk was inserted into
a computer, where it lodged itself and infected all disks inserted thereafter. Those disks in turn infected other computers on
campus. All programs, including those on hard disk, are infected.

nVirA lies dormant for 11 days, said Brockway, and during that period systems operate as normal. Once it attacks however,
nothing can be done as systems “crash” or commands receive slow response. According to Lee Norris, coordinator of academic PC
services at the Computer Services Center, the virus attacks a particular statement in a program, and disables its execution. Because
he had no backup files on the hard disk, Brockway was forced to reinstall each program from their original disks
(cleaned)--a process which took 18 hours.

“During those 18 hours I was unable to grade papers nor to prepare lectures,” he lamented. “I had no access
to my calendar, addresses and phone and FAX numbers.” Three students lost their projects because they had not saved their
works elsewhere.

The virus was finally destroyed using a program entitled Disinfectant which is effective only against that particular virus. There are
several types of viruses, each of which has its own anti-viral program. Brockway contacted the MacUser’s Group in Berkeley, Ca.
and was instructed to use the Disinfectant program against nVirA. Norris “downloaded” Disinfectant from CompuServe, a computer information facility in
Charlotte. Psychology computers are now clean. All computers at the Computer Services Center were disinfected before the virus manifested itself.
Norris is in the process of inspecting professors’ Apple computers and said that student Apple owners may request the same
service.

According to Norris, many pro-

HOLD UP, from page 1money and jewelry. The robbers pulled the manager out of the restaurant at that time, and
the four suspects were also seated at a table and had ordered food. The Charlotte Observer quoted the Dragon Inn
manager as saying the four suspects “were in their 20s, neatly dressed, with short haircuts” and “looked like regular customers.”
The owner was confident that the suspects were Vietnamese. According to Miller, one of the men walked up behind him
and grabbed his shoulder, pointing a gun to his head and ordering him and Bell into the kitchen. There the
other customers and employees were forced into a walk-in cooler. It was then that the assailants completed all of their
actions and called the police.

Several minutes later, they put her back in and locked the cooler door. A few minutes later, some of the
employees forced the door open. While the police were on the scene at the Dragon Inn, another robbery occurred down
the street at the House of Hunan. Charlotte police are now trying to locate the three suspects from a robbery
that occurred at a Chinese restaurant in October. The three became suspects following the shooting incident at a Veneer Place.
The police are still investigating Friday’s robberies and trying to form possible links between these robberies and the string of
others which have occurred.

Professors’ computers were destroyed last week from a virus at Western Carolina University. Brockway says that he is now forced
to check each student’s disk before saving programs onto psychology computers. He does not, however, suspect students of having created
the virus. “Creating a virus is very complicated and creating an antivirus is even more complicated,” he stated. Norris suspects
that a student innocently acquired a virus-containing game in a public computer center and played it on psychology lab computers,
which became infected. He recommends that the best way to avoid viruses is to not copy system software, a process
which is against the law. “It’s best to buy software or to use public software,” he said. However, public computers
are not always protected and it is a good idea to run a virus check on them. Norris maintained that
students and faculty should not panic, although the virus is “very frustrating -- it’s like an invasion of privacy.” Because
the college now has virus detection programs, “It’s not anything to panic about...it can be fixed,” he assured.

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Assistant Dean of Students Harriet Fulton, Director of Residence Life Tom Jennings, and his wife, Financial Aid Assistant Roni Jennings,
plan to leave Davidson in June. Fulton leaves to pursue studies at the University of Baltimore which will enable her
to become a family therapist. She will take courses for one year, then complete the requirements with an internship in
clinical services. Fulton decided to complete her education last year after she took a class in family therapy. “I took
a course to test it out and really enjoyed it,” she said.

Davidson first employed Fulton in the Development Office nine years ago. She later moved to the Careers Office so she
could interact with students. Her present position was obtained several years after. As Assistant Dean of Students, Fulton has trained
hall counselors, worked with transfer students, and helped form support groups. She also promoted student awareness of such issues as
alcohol and sexuality. Fulton found talking with students to be the best part of her job, but could not counsel
them as a full-time administrator. Obtaining her certificate will allow Fulton to become a full-time counselor. She will, however, miss
working with Davidson students. “I have enjoyed being here and knowing I will see my friends when they return for
reunions,” said Fulton. “I’ll just have to consider myself a part of the class of 1989 and return to visit.”

Tom Jennings also plans to further his education. He will work toward his doctorate degree in higher education at the
University of Virginia. After three years, Jennings hopes to find a job in business or administration. He received his bachelor’s
degree in 1983 from James Madison University and began his job in Davidson’s Residence Life office in 1986. Jennings has
“mixed” feelings about leaving as he has many good friends here. He hopes to continue working in admissions and financial
aid at the new school in Charlottesville.
