The Davidsonian

Huge Inside Art! pages 8-10

Volume LXXX, Number 21

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, March 31, 1989

Raney awarded prestigious Watson scholarship

Senior to compare occurrence of rape to sexual roles

By MARY RUSS
Senior Milbrey “Mibs” Raney was recently awarded the Thomas J. Watson Scholarship for her creative proposal for study abroad. As
a result, she will spend next year in France, Montreal, Quebec, and Martinique researching her interest in the correlation between
polarized sex roles (in the French culture) and the incidence of rape.

The scholarship was established by Thomas Watson, who, upon graduating from college, wandered Europe with hopes of figuring out what
to do with the rest of his life. He returned to America and founded IBM. Convinced of the benefits of
study and experience abroad, Watson established his scholarship for the sole purpose of providing worthy graduates with the opportunity to
study and learn abroad as he did, so that they might better focus their aims in life.

The scholarship tends to recognize those students with the most creative or “off-the-wall” proposals for research. The requirements of the
scholarship are that the selected student must study abroad for a period of nine to twelve months, and that the
research conducted may neither be in the United States nor in a country very similar to the United States.

Although several students from one college may be selected to enter the nationwide competition for the Watson honor, only 75
students are chosen from across the nation to receive the $13,000 scholarships.

Inside

Davidson hosts prominent South African activists

By KEVIN DUNN
Last Monday the college hosted three distinguished South African citizens for lunch. Through the work of the Dean Rusk Program
in International Studies, a number of students and faculty were able to engage the Rev. Mcebisi O. Xundu, the Rev.
Zwelinzima M. Mjekula, and Marie Burton in a conversation concerning topics relevant to southern Africa—investments, sanctions, and United States foreign
policy towards Africa.

Xundu and Mjekula, both Anglican priests, are active in the opposition movements against their country’s policy of racial segregation, called
apartheid. Burton is the president of Black Sash, the largest women’s movement in the Republic of South Africa. Composed primarily
of white South Africans sympathetic to the cause of the black majority, the organization was founded in the late 1950s
and has played significant roles in the struggle against apartheid and in the effort to aid its victims.

In addition to organizing peaceful demonstrations, sustaining contact with international observers, and otherwise exerting pressures for change, Black Sash has
provided assistance for the families of detainees and for victims of abuse. Despite continued harassment from government forces, Black Sash
has established itself as a constructive force for white liberals working for change in South Africa.

The topics of discussion centered primarily on the role of private institutions and the United States government in the Republic.
The debate became more intense as opinions clashed on the issue of sanctions and divestment. The three guests, however, presented
a balanced perspective as the somewhat radical Xundu and the moderate Mjekula presented their views on economic sanctions against South
Africa. Black Sash neither endorses nor opposes sanctions or divestment.

There was a consensus among the guests concerning the need for a greater understanding by Americans of the events in
Southern and South Africa. According to them, it is difficult for Americans to acquire accurate information about the South African
situation. The three also stressed the important roles being played by the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the African National
Congress (ANC) in South Africa. The guests encouraged the United States government and individual institutions such as Davidson College to
extend recognition to these two anti-apartheid movements.

The guests are visiting America under the auspices of the U.S. Information Agency. The Dean Rusk Program was able to
host their visit to the college due to the generosity of the Charlotte Inter-
