The Kwangju American Cultural Center

The vacant building of the American Cultural Center, now an abode of silence, reluctantly receives a visitor, unlocking two padlocks
and an iron-barred gate; a strip of empty air is hung at the flagpole where the Star-Spangled Banner had been
fluttering forty-two years. What then has America left here, 80 Hwangkum-dong, very near the 5.18 Square where the citizens in
the bloody whirlwind screamed for Democracy and Liberty?

The dust sitting mute on chairs in the reading room, the iron bars stark at attention in window frames, bricks,
closed doors, panes of bulletproof glass, and some questions unquenchable in everyone’s minds...

Ah, the land’s old cries several sparrows are scattering in the quadrangle of the American Cultural Center; I gaze up
into the deep blue heaven through the shadows falling to pieces, one heaven of five thousand years the Korean paulownia
branches support.

To where winds this road along now? Rise on wings the prophetic songs above the scars and separate land, breaking
the heavily-built white silence, turns the history its hidden dark face above the amicable hands that have been shaking forty-four
years. Yet you would say: Self-reliance doesn’t lie in blaming others for your own sores nor in isolating yourself. We'd
better learn from a tree how to be in touch with winds and how to grow without bending to a
seasonal wind. Then as we might open Korean Cultural Centers in any city of the U.S., why can’t the Americans
open theirs here?

The vacant building of the American Cultural Center in the heart of Kwangju City, drearier than ever, utters monosyllables in
metallic voice, hardly understood, closing its iron-barred gate and two padlocks as a visitor goes out.

-Chang Young-Gil

poet and graduate student Chonnam National University Kwangju, Korea

Ghost Words from a Peruvian Lover

You have been dismantled into segments A doll’s smile, ferret eyes, hair strewn in garlands and song as you floated
in night like fey Ophelia. Bits and broken pieces fill the blue interstices dividing sighs into invisible tragedy disappearing across
aeons and galaxies scattered; you have been flung like a rag to the winds.

—J.M. Gillikin, ‘89

Moving

Still I hang suspended, this (one of many memories) cathedral’s ancient stone warmed, and atmosphere of dusty sun dancing motes
through St. Francis’ stained glass eyes are still not dead, but dreaming in light as sunset scarlet streams alive and
dancing through his each a complement that thinly braided segmented glass (I am the dappled doe that licks his hand),
his benediction falls like curls upon my upturned face, attentive squinting bright, green stained grass kissed his toe for centuries
have stood, new morning dew each on each, pieces, hand cut light placed carefully in leaden outline making whole shines,
the purple breasted birds around his haloed head, the brown and scratching hairshirt on his skin, feeling each is each
is peace, pieces of the people we have on and past my window, orange shines through bright my soul, St.
Francis dreaming still and still remember each (certain broken colors, bits of bottle glass edges smoothed, upon the beach) that
wash

Peter Tavernise, ‘90
