6

Monday, February 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

It's been brought to my attention that some of you feel the Comics section should run fewer comics. We decided to take that fact into consideration.

What do you think this is? The New York Times?

ATTENTION READER:
ATTENTION BEAVER:

In order to avoid any confusion some may have with this comic strip and other strips involving carrots, we are proud to announce a change in our title.

Our title was "Bob the Carrot," for a broader and simpler name. After paying a low 5 franc sum, we are pleased to present our new name: "Bob."

We have dropped "the Carrot."

by Kevin

We begin our new comic strip: "Bob at a Party."

"You mean 'Call 'n' Suané' last year, whenever you were weak?"

THE "CARTOONIST RUNS OUT OF INK"

OTHER CHARACTERS SAVE IT.

THE REVERSED UNMEANT UPPER

THE "O" SIGNIFIES THE EMPHASIS ON THAT LETTER.

This is a great party, but too bad I won't remember anything tomorrow.

Some of you may recognize me. I've come to make a confession concerning my love affair with Bob the Carrot!

Some readers may remember a girl giving birth to a baby carrot. Well, that girl was me. My cartoonist and my pet dog, Elektra, live somewhere else. My story was sold to Penthouse, so you can read the rest there.

(including toes and lowlifes in Wonderland)

Suddenly—

Aye there, ladies! We're the heroes—

I can feel those nasty imperialists starting to swap. I feel awkward, like a left-handed hang.

The folk distribute, the aerial substance to the bored!

Take one, laddies!

103 [kD {4H 2 Feb 45 (apologies to all).

That's irrelevant! I say, do you conscript before I have the thrice Punjab, get out of here!

Shall we have potticokes, kidney scones, or crumpets?

Too bad he wasn't here to see this.

Dear, dear—must catch up with the sun—it never sets on me, you know. Cheerios.

Suddenly—

Because Nancy Reagan—

Sue E. Gherets

Lads! Don't let you. Just look like a wee giant hash brownie.

But don't worry kids, the change is only temporary.

LESSON #7

A bunch of fools

You know what, you know rear familiar like.

SON OF, from page 5

and possibly won’t like. You should jump at the chance to see a new side of yourself, a side others may have already seen.

You should also jump at the chance to change yourself if you feel the need. See, the stories I’ve told in this article show just how you react to the various situations that arise. You may be horrified, but you can only change if you know what to change. You may be delighted at what you find. If so, you can try and enhance that good point.

I know many people that are going abroad next year. I don’t know what your reasons are for going, maybe you’re going to Paris looking for answers to questions that bother you.

I hope that you will ask lots of questions as you experience other cultures. After all, one of the first steps toward discovery is questioning. Finally, no matter what happens and no matter how badly things go, just learn to laugh—it’s the miracle cure!