Friday, April 14, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

> tone six year

“class members to recall the US.

Memory can be improved

oink ‘coaiies ‘yourself for forgetting the capitals of East Asian countries, though most students protested, many found their numbers in line with, or at least proportional to, the actual statistics.

Brockway claims that memory is not a passive receptacle but rather a generative process. Rather than absorbing information through our senses, it is a thought process. Different associations are effective for different people.

Brockway has his seminar students put their memories to the test. For their first paper, students verified their earliest memories. Responses were varied.

Sophomores Ellen Ott (second from left) and Molly Graver (4th from left) walked a sixty-mile trek from Statesville to Greensboro in order to raise money for and awareness of Central America.

A pilgrimage for peace has begun  
Graver and Ott walk for awareness and funds for Central America

By LISA GERRARD

Molly Graver taped a favorite quote to her library carrel early this year. “Let us take the risks of peace upon our lives,” it says, “not impose the risks of war upon the world.” Graver and her roommate Ellen Ott recently acted on these words, taking steps toward peace in Central America.

The two sophomores walked from Statesville to Greensboro during Spring Break as part of an organized “Pilgrimage for Peace in Central America.” Goals for the 60-mile trek were to raise awareness about the plight of the Central American people and to collect funds for specific relief efforts. At Davidson alone they were able to raise $1100 of the group’s total $5000—a substantial achievement given the dollar’s value in Central America. The money will go for hurricane victims in Nicaragua, civil war damage in El Salvador, and regional agriculture reform. Five thousand dollars buys a great deal more in Central America than it would here, says political science professor Brian Shaw, who has visited the region on several occasions. “If you have people who have no money, any amount goes a long, long way.”

Graver and Ott feel that U.S. actions hinder rather than help Central America. “Instead of sending contra aid and $1.5 million a day to support the government in El Salvador, we could use the money to better the plight of the poor. The more I learn, the madder I get,” Graver said.

Graver and Ott learned about the role of the United States in Central American affairs as they listened to other walkers’ experiences. Witness for Peace, Carolina Interfaith Task Force (CITCA), and several churches sponsored the walk. Several of the Pilgrimage participants had been to Central America and spoke of the villagers’ suffering and courage.

Witness for Peace, an inter-denominational Christian organization, sends American delegations to the area three times a month. They talk to people from many different groups—government, the U.S. embassy, workers’ movements, guerrillas, contras, families. Beth Craddock, director of Davidson’s capital campaign, recently spent two weeks in Nicaragua with a group led by Witness for Peace. Craddock met villagers with horrifying stories of contra attacks in which babies had been murdered and schools had been burned. She also visited a government-constructed barrio for people who had lost their homes during the war. The temporary houses were made primarily of scrap lumber and had dirt floors. They had no windows, electricity, nor bathroom facilities.

Craddock said that Nicaragua spends most of its budget on defense in response to continuing attacks by the contras. Witness for Peace maintains that the recent congressional decision to send $45 million in humanitarian aid to the counter-revolutionaries contradicts the will of Central American presidents.

“The Central American presidents want the contras to be completely disbanded,” said Graver, “but U.S. aid will enable them to remain standing as an army.” It angers Graver and Ott that the U.S. government has portrayed a positive response to the aid.

They feel that organizations like Witness for Peace and CITCA are important because they secure direct reports rather than rely on hearsay. After volunteers visit the countries, they return and report to legislators. “These people realize that they’re just putting band-aids on the problem if they stay there,” Ott remarked.

The journey’s long miles were good for “thinking out loud” with other walkers, said Ott. Pilgrimage conversations inspired her to hope that policies can be changed and peace is possible in Central America. The people working for change have “an inner faith in what they're doing,” she said; they may become frustrated but they are not discouraged.

“Americans go down to Central America expecting to find a land without hope,” Graver said. “They find the opposite is true.” In El Salvador, where entire villages have been burned out, persevering hope and valuable organization skills have brought the peasants back to their land to rebuild.

Graver says a sense of community helps them survive. “Central Americans perhaps understand the true meaning of the Christian faith. They base it on the community and are concerned with worldly as well as spiritual plight.” Graver shared with family and friends in a recent letter, “I know that spirituality cannot be complete when injustice exists.”

As long as they have the capacity to work for change, Graver and Ott say they will feel responsible for people who suffer. Echoing the words of Martin Luther King, each believes that “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” They have begun a “pilgrimage for peace” to last a lifetime.