12

J.D. Heuer (#34) scrambles for the red team as Paul Denmond (#4), Sterling Freeman (#3), and Detlef Musch (#25) fight for position. The Wildcats played the annual Red-Black game on Saturday in Belk Arena in the Baker Complex. Photo by Tim Dancy

strict style of Bobby Hussey, Denmond also registered 20.

formance in a long while.

is December 1st against Virginia.

Davidson 87 - Venezuela Nationals 71

Belk Arena was christened with a victory Monday night as the Davidson basketball team began the Bob McKillop era with a win over a more experienced Venezuelan national team, 87-71. The team showcased a quicker, more running style than last year, a change McKillop says is permanent. Senior guard Alan Hunter referred to it as “refreshing.”

Guard Magic Gaines, one of the players who languished under the scored 20 points in the win. Sophomore Paul

The fans also got a look at 6-11 freshman Detlef Musch, who scored six points and played well defensively. Musch played in the place of Maurice Gray, who will be out six to eight weeks because of a stress fracture in his right foot. Senior Jay Schmitt went five-for-five for 17 points in his best performance in a long while.

The Wildcats play again Sunday at Cherry Point. The next home game is December 1st against Virginia.

Top tennis seed Ruth to play in Nationals

By Don Hastings

Davidson College’s tennis program will be represented by three of its women players at the qualifying round of the DuPont National Clay Court Championships in Hilton Head, South Carolina.

Davidson’s number one seed, Mary Beth Ruth, a junior history major, will return to her hometown as the Wildcats’ foremost representative. Two freshmen players, Sarah Melson and Leslie Goff, were selected as alternates. After two competitors fell ill, Melson and Goff were chosen to fill their spots.

We'll be back shortly...

The Davidsonian is taking a publishing break for the Thanksgiving holidays. Our next issue will be Wednesday, Dec. 6.

The qualifying round, which will involve 64 competitors, is for admission to the tournament field of 32 players. The top 28 seeds in the final round are selected from the top teams in the country. Davidson’s players will be competing for the final four slots in this elite field. The 64 seeded players were selected from an entry group of 150 from all over the country.

The DuPont Championships are the fifth leg of the Grand Prix for college players. The tournament will include players from Stanford, Miami, Duke, Texas, Clemson, and other top-ranked university teams.

Friday, November 17, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

In Good Health

By MARK D. PUCKETT

About one year ago today, I said to myself, “Now learn what and how great benefits a temperate diet will bring along with it. In the first place you will enjoy good health.” I find out a year later that some bozo named Horace said the same thing 20,000 years ago and the reason that it makes no sense is because the butterhead wrote it in LATIN. A Roman guy writes a couple of poems, earns a little fame for his work, and 50,000 years down the road we must say, “That’s rich and beautiful and full of mellifluous language. It affects me greatly even though I can hardly say it.”

What the hell is the main idea of the preceding paragraph? I think it is best summarized in the following quote by Horace’s sister, Dorace, who said in Latin: E Pluribus Carpe Alenda Lux Diem And Dontus Overeatum Overa Thanksgivin-gemus Breakus.

A translation may further elucidate Dorace’s main idea: “Never let ‘em see you sweat; never say ‘I’ll be right over’; and never play cards with a woman who has the same first name as an Eastern bloc country, perhaps a cute first cousin. Play backyard football. Climb a sights pie bs Relax, but do not stuff thyself.”

Mary Beth Ruth, the top-seeded player on the women's tennis team, will be competing against other college aces in the upcoming Dupont National Clay Court Tournament. Ruth is a junior from Hilton Head, S.C.

Photo courtesy of Sports Information

Fitness tips for the break: Do not stuff thyself

You must confront this food and eat what you need to eat and remember the following: DO NOT OVEREAT.

Have yourself a generous serving of white, lean turkey, but take it easy on the gravy, stuffing, mashed potatoes, and bread rolls. Load up on vegetables: lima beans, corn, green beans, black-eyed peas, broccoli, etc. Go right ahead and throw on some cranberry sauce. And have a dessert, not seven. Try to stay away from ham and beef, but if you must have it, keep the portions minimal.

Control snacking. Drink a lot of water. The key—DO NOT STUFF THYSELF.

Just like Socrates said, “Nothing in excess.” Socrates also said, “I think that I had better bathe before I drink the poison, and not give the women the trouble of washing my body.”

Set a goal for yourself. You need not exercise every day, but attempt some sort of physical activity at least once or twice during the holiday. Take a walk with a loved one—a great way to stay active and enjoy the holiday season.