‘Cats destroy Millsaps, page 9!

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 3

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, September 13, 1989

Different pay for different jobs

Work-study program divides jobs into three pay levels

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

A system for differentiating pay between student work-study jobs went into effect in August. The system, designed by Gordon Peck,
associate dean of Financial Aid, changes the standard $3.35 per hour wage and provides an incentive component.

“It seemed to be an equitable twentieth-century thing to do,” said Peck.

“Different levels in pay rates is only fair,” he continued. “We wanted to give an incentive to do a good
job and have students return [to the same assignment] from year to year.”

Peck also said that student discontent and higher pay rates at Vail Commons contributed to the decision to adopt a
new program.

The pay levels reflect the skill and experience required for a job. Grade I, for students needing direct supervision, begins
at $3.35/hr. A degree of specialized knowledge and skills is demanded for Grade II, which pays $3.65/hr.

The highest pay, $4/hr., is reserved for Grade III, where individuals must possess previous experience in the field. Only three
jobs are included in Grade III: Union weekend manager, 900 Room manager, and weekend library supervisor.

The program also incorporates a 20-cent annual raise as an incentive to students to return to their previous assignment.

A survey of work-study jobs conducted last spring helped Peck form the classifications. Supervisors submitted a description of current jobs
as well as an evaluation of work-study students. On the basis of these replies, pay grades were set and some
students were recommended for raises.

The financial aid office is thus not forced to ask for a budget increase.

According to Peck, however, the federal government currently funds 80 percent of Davidson work-study programs and plans to cut its
contribution to 75 percent. Over the next two years, the rate will fall to 60 percent. This decrease in government
funding, as well as a proposed increase of the minimum wage from $3.35 to $4.35, threatens to cause problems for
the new program.

“I’m concerned that the government will obligate us to pay more without giving us more,” said Peck. “Maybe they'll exempt
college work-study programs or put in a grandfather clause.”

Peck stressed that the program is still in its initial stages. “We'll solve the problems as they arise,” he said.
“The program is still developing, and we know we have some rough edges, but at least it’s a first step—unequal
pay for unequal work.”

Open forum discusses elections, condoms, minorities

By RAFAEL J. SANCHEZ-ABALLI

Upcoming Senate elections, the condom distribution process, and concerns related to the college’s minority population were the major topics discussed
last week at the Student Government Association’s first open Senate meeting. SGA President Tripp Helms presided. After briefly describing some
of the functions of SGA, Helms announced the schedule for freshman, independent, and house senator elections. Sign-ups ended this Monday,
and candidates have until Monday, September 18 to campaign. Elections will be held on Tuesday, September 19, and run-offs will
be held the subsequent two days if necessary.

Because of an unexpected vacancy in the Honor Council, elections will also be held on the same Tuesday for a
junior class representative.

Independent Senator Sidney Summers, chairperson for the Campus Services and Facilities Committee, reported that her committee was in the process
of formulating a survey for hall counselors designed to evaluate current procedures of condom distribution. Summers also reported that her
committee will draft a letter addressed to Dean Terry concerning embarrassing grammatical errors on the condom envelopes being distributed.

Michelle Blake, Black Student Coalition (BSC) Senator and Chairperson of the ad hoc Student Minority Situation Committee, expressed her committee’s
concern regarding minority students at Davidson. Stating that “all of us are a bit ignorant,” Blake began by emphasizing that
the BSC serves not as a “separating mechanism” but as a support group for minority students at Davidson.

Blake continued by identifying four main concerns for African-Americans at Davidson. First, there is a lack of African-American courses in
the curriculum. Presently, there is only one such course, Modern Black Literature. Blake also pointed out the shortage of African-Americans
in the student body—there are 64 African-Americans enrolled out of a total student population of 1397.

Although the numbers are slowly increasing, there remains a big disproportion of minority students at Davidson. This underrepresentation is also
evident in the faculty and staff. Lastly,

See FORUM, page 2
