Thursday, March 2, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

IMACtion
Insatiables, Caroline’s Dream, and Wolfpack emerge as champions
By LARRY SLEDGE

A great deal of publicity surrounded last Saturday’s basketball game with Central Florida, a game that was billed as “the
end of an era.” But another era came to an end two days prior to that game. As public address
announcer Carter Garrett introduced the officials for the A-league finals, the last of the games in the championship series, the
final game of IMAC basketball in Johnston Gym was set to begin, intent on determining the best team in the
league.

The women’s finals pitted the Insatiables against the Old Women. The Insatiables had won both prior meetings between the two
teams, but this encounter opened on a controversial note. Volleyball coach Rebecca Hawkins had scheduled an engagement for her team
and required all players, including the Insatiables’ LaVetta Dawkins, to attend. But mysteriously, as game time approached, the Insatiables squad
included Dawkins, leaving the Old Women without their top rebounder Coach Hawkins, and the Insatiables at full strength.

The Insatiables dominated every aspect of the game. This fact was clearly illustrated by the sight of Dawkins continuously rejecting
shots by Judy Krenzer without even jumping. Dawkins even managed to hit one from three-point land. Leslie Urban added to
the slaughter by pouring in 26 points. Salt was tossed into the wound by the clock operator, who inadvertently ran
20-minute halves instead of 18. When the smoke had cleared, the Insatiables had successfully defended their championship with a 59-26
drubbing of the Old Women.

Phi Delt’s (previously) Undefeated Champs attempted to accomplish the same feat in their series with third West’s Caroline’s Dream, a
match-up which featured a serious contrast of styles. Some people refer to the defending champs as the “wide-bodies,” as most
of them play for the football team. With three players over 250 pounds and an average weight of about 210,
the Undefeated Defending Champs play a very physical game, which usually succeeds in intimidating the opponents and even sometimes the
referees. Caroline’s Dream, on the other hand, played more of a finesse game, centered on the fast break. Even though
their offense rested almost entirely on the shoulders of their hall counselor Kevin Burns, they got steady performances from Kevin
Grooms, John Beyer, and Andy Hunt to aid them. IMAC’s decision to have three referees for the game may also
have helped them, for the extra man may well have allowed some fouls to be seen that otherwise wouldn’t have.

Although the offensive contributions of the freshman members of the team were minimal, Caroline’s Dream came away with two victories
over the Undefeated Defending Champs (39-35 and 50-38), will eventually be wearing the championship t-shirts, and dealt a crushing blow
to “wide-body” basketball.

The feature presentation of this extravaganza, though, was the A-league final, the best of the best. This year’s final showcased
two arch-rivals, SAE’s Wolfpack and KA’s Really Nice Guys. The two teams had met twice previously and the series was
tied at one each. At stake this time was theTitle of champion. The Wolfpack would have to win twice, for
they had been knocked into the loser’s bracket by KA earlier in the tournament. In the first game, Greg scored
22 points as the Wolfpack devoured the Really Nice Guys 59-42, setting the stage for a winner-take-all final game. The
presence of nearly 200 fans illustrated the importance of the game. The first half gave the fans exactly what they
came to see—IMAC excitement. The Wolfpack led through most of the first half, but by halftime, the Really Nice Guys
had evened the score to 22-22. The second half featured more of the same, but the difference in the game
may well have been the defensive performance of the Wolfpack’s Charles Bratton. He had the responsibility of guarding A.J. Morgan
throughout the game and held him to 14 points. Behind his stellar performance, the Wolfpack left with a 45-39 victory
and the A-league championship, closing out another year of IMACtion basketball and ending another era.

SAE Brant Oelchlager stuffs a KA in the IMAC championship game. Photo by Ben Yarbrough

BIG SOUTH, from page 10

In the CAA, Davidson would be in a conference in which it could hold its own in many sports such
as soccer, volleyball, basketball, baseball, and men’s and women’s tennis. This conference would also renew some old Southern Conference ties
with Richmond, East Carolina, William and Mary, and American. The CAA would also bring such schools as Navy and James
Madison with Lefty Belt. The Sun Belt appears to be tougher than the CAA and Davidson would have to raise
its athletics a level. This conference would bring a heated rivalry with UNCC which would be good for both schools.

There are two negative factors though with the Sun Belt. The first one is that none of the schools have
any academic reputation. All of the schools are basically a bunch of Marshalls and UTCs. Another problem is the distance
between the schools. The Sun Belt stretches all the way from Virginia to Florida and across to Alabama and Kentucky.
It would be a long drive for, say, the baseball team to go to South Alabama or South Florida for
a series. Another possibility is the formation of a new conference. With UTC wanting to join the Metro Conference, it
is conceivable that the Southern Conference could fall apart and Davidson could form a new conference with some of the
Southern Conference schools and some others, independents like UMBC.

A final possibility is getting a bunch of schools together, if UTC goes to the Metro Conference, and forming a
CAA North and South. This move would require at least 6 other schools such as some Southern Conference schools and
maybe University of Maryland Baltimore County. Although being an independent is far from ideal, Davidson should resist joining the Big
South unless nothing else is possible in, say, the year 2050.

Stop Submitting To Inside Art, and Resume Submitting to Authority. Then write it up.
