2 Anywhere from 300,000 to 600,000 protesters converge on capital

By TRENT STEVENS

Davidson students were among the hundreds of thousands of activists who demonstrated on the streets of the nation’s capital last
Sunday in the “March for Women’s Equality, Women’s Lives.” Organized by the National Organization for Women (NOW), the march brought
anywhere from 300,000 to over 600,000 marchers in support of both the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) and the right of
women to have a legal abortion.

Seven Davidson College students, six female and one male, joined 177 other pro-choice activists in four buses for a journey
which started shortly after midnight on Sunday from the Charlotte Planned Parenthood parking lot. Almost 11 hours later, the caravan
pulled into the parking lot of the Pentagon. The group soon reached Constitution Avenue, a focal point of the march.

“All the streets were filled from side to side with people marching up (to the Capitol Building),” said senior Camille
Cooper. “It felt as if a million people were there,” she added.

Junior Leigh Hall reported that approximately 40 anti-abortion demonstrators attempted to block the road near the Washington Monument, the starting
point of the march. It “was like trying to hold back a flood with a garbage can lid,” she commented.

The marchers were a diverse group, in both their backgrounds and their methods of expressing their views. “It was such
a cross-cut of the American public,” stated Hall, who also observed the banner of a woman who was a confessed
atheist: “Keep your church out of my crotch.” Other signs bore such slogans as “Keep Abortion Legal” and “Pregnant and
Pro-Choice,” in addition to symbols such as the coat hanger, an object used in performing abortions during the days before
they became legal.

Whoopi Goldberg, one of several celebrity activists who spoke to the crowd, was quoted as saying, “Hangers as an alternative
are wrong.”

“There was one woman on the bus who had been working towards a march like this for 25 years,” said
senior Mibs Raney. “There were groups that I have never even heard of before.”

Some of the marchers were men. “My main reason for going was to find out more about the movement,” said
senior Jeff Muir, the only male activist from Davidson to attend the march. “It is not just something that affects
just women,” he said of abortion, “it affects everyone.”

Political science professor Mary Thornberry also went to the site of the march. “A march is obviously designed to do
a number of things,” she said, citing the effect that such a march has on lawmakers and the reinforcing effect
it has on other supporters of a cause.

Despite the diversity of the pro-choice crowd, they were all marching for the same central causes. Of primary concern to
many was the upcoming Supreme Court trial involving a Missouri abortion law. It is possible that the Supreme Court’s decision
in this trial may lead to a reversal.

ROTC blood letting yields 163 pints

Red Cross staff discounts AIDS rumor

By DAVID SCOTT and MUADI MUKENGE

Davidson students and faculty contributed a total of 163 pints of blood last week during the semi-annual Red Cross blood
drive, surpassing the goal of 150 set by Davidson ROTC, the sponsoring organization.

ROTC cadets helped Red Cross staff set up a temporary donor station in the Union while students and volunteers manned
blood pressure machines, filled out forms, and passed out cookies. Members of the Davidson Emergency Rescue Service and volunteers from
the community aided the effort.

According to Red Cross nurse Patty Howell, people should not be apprehensive about giving blood. It does not cause extreme
pain and donors are replenished with orange juice and cookies, she said. “After you’ve given a few times, you can
hardly tell any difference when you’re finished.”

The Red Cross needs blood. The Carolina Region of the Red Cross, which is based in Charlotte, must take in
an average of 1,200 pints of blood per day. Eleven bloodmobiles are sent out every day to sites including colleges,
and the regional headquarters in Charlotte takes donations during all business hours.

Red Cross officials were asked about rumors circulating around campus which say that three Davidson students tested positive for the
AIDS HIV virus after tests of fall blood drive samples. Officials were confident that the rumors could not possibly be
true. Dick Larkins, lead volunteer for the blood drive, responded. “You will hear all kinds of wild stories like that.”
Larkins stressed that there is no way he, the nurses, nor the public could possess that data—whether or not it
is true.

About 5 percent of all blood received is destroyed, said Larkins. The causes are largely due to the presence of
diseases such as hepatitis and syphilis rather than the HIV virus, he added. All blood samples are sent to the
Charlotte lab for testing, said Larkins. Anyone whose sample repeatedly tests positive for the HIV virus is notified individually by
mail. According to Larkins, only the Charlotte lab’s chief operating officer, Jerry Squires, and medical director Paul Jenner could possibly
know who tests positive.

The organization is not authorized to release information as to whether or not anyone received a notification letter, says Red
Cross public relations director Debbie Slappey. “That is purely confidential information,” she stressed. “The important thing is that students need
to know for sure that it is still a fact that you cannot get AIDS from donating blood,” Slappey added.of
all or part of the 1973 Supreme Court decision in the Roe vs. Wade trial, which led to the legalization
of abortion in the United States. “I believe that the woman should have the right to choose,” said senior Sheri
Reynolds. “I won’t deny that I had a great time (at the march), but I think that it was asinine
that I had to march for my right to make decisions about my own body.” She added, “At this point,
pro-lifers are making a moral issue out of something that is a legal matter.”

Friday, April 14, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson pro-choice activists march on Washington

Raney added that the abortion issue is “an issue of control.” “I think they’re playing emotional hardball,” Raney said of
the pro-life activists. “I think the pro-lifers are trying to make it a good vs. evil decision and it’s not
as simple as that,” she said. Muir said that pro-lifers “have some valid points in the sense that abortion is
taking life.” However, he disagreed with what he feels are pro-lifers’ misconceptions that women use abortion as a kind of
birth control. “Whose life is more important: the woman or the child?” he asked. He referred to pro-lifer threats and
bombings of abortion clinics when he stated, “I don’t appreciate their imposing their views on others by using such criminal
and brutal tactics.”

Even if the Supreme Court overturns its earlier decision in the Roe vs. Wade case, the decision will not automatically
change the laws concerning abortion. “The immediate focus (of the new ruling) would return to states,” Thornberry stated. She referred
to the abortion issue as a “valence” issue, one that she said legislatures despise because members’ votes on the issue
have a direct impact upon the members’ popular support at election time. “I would consider going on the march to
be the single most important thing that I have done in my life thus far,” Cooper related. “I just wanted
to join the majority of people in the country who want to make sure that decisions about abortion remain personal
and not controlled by the law,” Hall echoed. “This is an intensely personal and intimate decision.” Hall also encouraged Davidson
students to look up the definition of self-determination, and she would urge people who believe in pro-choice to write to
their congressmen and representatives,” she added. She referred students to the 1988 Congressional Staff Directory, which is edited by Charles
D. and Anna L. Brownson, for the names and addresses of these persons. The book is available in the reference
section of the library. “Abortion, whether it’s legal or not, is going to continue,” Muir argued. “But if it’s legal,
it’s going to remain safe.”

DIONYSUS, from page 1

ated it very much.” Neither did Guest House manager Mattie Fletcher when she arrived early Wednesday morning. She found bags
full of beer cans and liquor bottles, fresh stains on the carpet and beer in the antique bowl and set
of goblets she had set out as living room decorations. “I think they fully intended to clean it up,” said
Fletcher, who has worked at the Guest House for 25 years and never had a similar experience. “When they realized
the magnitude of what had happened they were most cooperative about helping us carry out trash and straighten up their
rooms, and they were very apologetic.” While Lonsdale was concerned about their “excessively festive” behavior, he called the 15 Players
a “first rate acting group” and their performance a “tremendous success.” “You know, actors will be actors,” he said.

PLAYERS, from page 1

Freeman, when asked about his reaction to the decision, said, “To tell you the truth, I just found out myself.
I really haven’t had time to think about it.” Harris says Hussey was a “major factor” in his decision to
come to Davidson. He adds that his performance has improved partly due to Hussey’s encouragement. “He provided a lot of
motivation and inspiration for me. That’s very important, because despite drills you need motivation if you want to be the
best that you can.” Most players shared a wish of good luck in the future for Hussey and gave their
support for his decision. Junior Alan Hunter said, “The game of basketball, and coaching basketball, is like a business. There
are certain ways to conduct business, certain decisions have to be made. I can support anyone who has guts enough
to make a decision and I stand by him.”

Regarding a new coach, junior Maurice Gray commented that the team is “open to the change.” The Ohio native is
confident that the team has the potential to win more games next year. “I’m hoping they’ll bring someone in who
will motivate us,” said freshman Paul Drobnitch when asked about next year’s coach. “I’m still hopeful we’ll do well [next
year]. Practically everyone’s coming back. I’m definitely staying,” he added. Freeman also said that he plans to be playing at
Davidson again next year.

Hunter, looking ahead to next year, added, “As a rising senior, I can get along with almost anyone. My goals
haven’t changed. I have faith in the administration. I will try to make whoever they choose feel comfortable in a
new environment.”

Junior Jay Schmitt declined to comment until after Hussey’s press conference.
