Thursday, March 2, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Soviet CITIZENS CAST THEIR BALLOTS...

Davidson STUDENTS

Letters

Thank you

Dear friends, co-workers, and Davidson College family,

Some of you we know and some of you we do not know; but to all of you we say thank you for the many gifts of love, food, concern, and most of all, your prayers. On November 8, 1988, our son Mark and his good friend Kevin were in a terrible dirt bike accident. Both of them were hurt seriously, but for the grace of God, they are both recovering in Charlotte Memorial Rehabilitation Hospital.

To Davidson College, we say thank you for working with us during our time of having to be out of work with Mark. There is a light at the end of the tunnel, and we are beginning to see it now. Hopefully, in about four or five weeks, Mark will be home with us. Given time and with therapy and most of all, the help of our Lord, his prognosis for full recovery is good.

Again, let us say thank you for your support, and we love you all.

Love and prayers,
Ronald and Gayle Hager

P.S. Special thanks to Irvin Brawley and Mattie Fletcher for letting us work when we can and for their continued support.

Support

Dear Editor,

The Davidson Men’s Club Lacrosse team would like to publicly thank the Athletic Department and Dr. Brockway for their generous support of our program. Lacrosse is a contact sport. High-quality protective equipment is crucial in preventing injuries. A recent national study completed at the University of North Carolina recommended “securing the safest and best equipment available” as a way to prevent injuries. Previously, many players on the lacrosse team had been running around in Four Horsemen of Notre Dame style helmets. Needless to say, they were at unnecessary risk of sustaining an injury. What the team needed and received was modern protective helmets.

We would like to thank Dr. Brockway for helping us convince the Athletic Department of the danger of injury. We would like to thank Kit Morris for recognizing that danger and authorizing the extra money to purchase the helmets. We would like to especially thank Sterling Martin for his help in this specific matter, and for his loyal and continued support throughout the year.

Lastly, we would like to remind everyone that the lacrosse team has eight home games this Spring, including one this Sunday against Pfeiffer at 2. So come on out and see the fastest game on two feet.

Men’s Club Lacrosse

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Margaret Carroll, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Julie Zimmerman, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor
Special Projects Editor: Maria Douglas
Club: John Scranton Harris

How much do we gain?

Two commentaries in this issue deal with the question of condom machine installations, both of which come out against such a proposal. The obvious editorial this week then, is a strong piece favoring condom machines in Davidson’s dorms; after all, it sounds like the liberal, open-minded, newspaperly thing to do. The main purpose is to provoke everyone, both those who support and those who reject the proposal, to consider the consequences of both decisions in-depth.

Boyd Miller and Paul Renner’s commentaries raise some important questions. How much do we gain by having access to condoms in the dorms? And how much do we lose? Obviously, availability is not the issue when Cornwell Drugs and the college infirmary are both within walking distance. And yet these options are not always available at the times when condoms might be most sought after. Which leads to the main question Miller and Renner bring up of responsibility: shouldn’t a person who has decided to engage in sexual activity be responsible enough to plan ahead? Do easy-access condom machines encourage casual sex? This question, however, goes both ways. Will someone who is irresponsible enough to engage in casual sex in the first place be responsible enough to plan ahead to provide protection? The consequences areToo dangerous to consider the matter strictly from what “ought” to be the case. Especially when alcohol is involved, reasoning is not always the most sound. It is naive to believe that the absence of adequate protection and the reality of the dangers involved always sobers people to the point of abstaining. It is also unfair to place all of the responsibility on the men. As for women who say that their only “excuse” for saying no to sex is lack of protection, they must learn to hold their personal decision in higher regard and to trust the person with whom they are even considering being intimate to respect their choice. Davidson is a Presbyterian college which prides itself on its moral character. Even though “the real world” is not thought to be a very honest place, students here live under an honor code because Davidson hopes to attract honest people who can be trusted. And yet, the college also has an honor council because this ideal is not always realized. To stretch the comparison, Davidson can still hold to its beliefs concerning sexual behavior among students, and these beliefs can be stressed through education and the enforcement of existing rules. But Davidson cannot deny the reality that sexual intercourse among students does exist, and the consequences of AIDS, other sexually transmitted diseases, or pregnancy are too great to ignore. A completely hands-off policy by the college is not “moral courage,” but rather, a shirking of an obligation. The AIDS threat is not just the disease-of-the-month. It’s an incredibly complex virus that will probably take years to unravel and understand. We are going to have to live in a state of sexual red alert for the foreseeable future. It is a situation that the college cannot ignore if it truly has students’ best interests in mind.

Hey, we went for the obvious editorial after all! Oh, well. Goodness, gracious! It has come to our attention that not everything that has passed by this year in this newspaper has pleased Will Terry. Well, we’ve lost just a ton of sleep over this one, and believe us, we're taking steps to assure that everything we print from now on will pass muster with our illustrious Dean of Good Ol’ Boys. His approval means so much to us.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Unsigned editorials are the responsibility of the Editor, as is the rest of the paper, come to think of it. In an effort to raise the newspaper’s endowment, we're raising subscription costs from $25 per year to $25,000. Sorry. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College in that fabled kung-fu grip.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll.
Assistant Features Editor: Bethany Deptuch.
Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome.

News Staff: David Bearce, John Burns, Peter Bynum, Si Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Gates Grainger, Heath Hardage, Stan Humphries, Delia Johnson, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Mary Russ, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler, Molly Young.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Larry “Off the hook with Jen & IMAC” Sledge, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Reese Boyd, Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.

Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland Smith.

Spiritual Consultant From Afar and Immediate Past President of the Will Terry Fan Club.