Friday, March 31, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Aviation Features:

* Three super smoking areas
* Extended upper deck is non-pressurized for a flight experience reminiscent of aviation's "glory days."
* Engines are now mounted with 3 hot Z bolts, each engine equipped with a parachute for recovery after it falls off.
* In addition to floating cushions, each seat is now equipped with a parachute and automatic rifle.
* Optional "open-air" cabin great for tanning.

Letters

Message from the SGA President

Because of the dramatic rise of AIDS cases among college students, the availability of condoms on campus has become a very important health issue to Davidson students. The suggestion of the installation of condom machines or other dispensers in dormitories has sparked heated debate among the student body. Opponents say that condom machines or some similar measure will increase sexual promiscuity and give the College’s endorsement to premarital sexual activity. They argue that students who feel they are mature enough to take on the responsibilities that sexual activity involves should be responsible enough to be prepared in advance of an encounter. Those in favor of condom dispensers argue that health, not morality, is the issue. While it is important to be prepared to take responsibility for the consequences of one’s actions, students are going to make mistakes. Proponents of condom availability argue that it is the College’s duty to try to make sure that students do not have to pay for such mistakes with their lives. Part of the role of the SGA Senate is to identify issues important to student interests, gather student opinion on these issues, and then represent this opinion to the administration, faculty, and staff of the College. The availability of condoms on campus is such an issue. To determine the majority view of the student body, we will be conducting a survey.

See PRESIDENT, page 16

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor
John Wightman, Business Manager
Margaret Carroll, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Julie Zimmerman, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

Condoms

Dear Editor,

By now, all diligent readers know that condoms are effective (most of the time) in stopping the spread of AIDS. But what image would the presence of condom machines on campus give to the outside world? Perhaps a fictional scenario can help us to understand the machines’ impact more fully. Imagine, if you will, that you are a prospective student visiting Davidson for the first time. As your tour guide leads you through the corridors of a dorm (Belk, perhaps?) you are presented with quite an interesting sight—a condom machine. Unfortunately, your guide does not stop to allow you time to admire this ingenious contraption. But this brief sight has unquestionably made an impact on you. What would you think? Although this situation is purely hypothetical, I had the recent pleasure of chatting with some “SGA Weekenders” about this very topic. The students I spoke with felt that the sight of a condom machine would be shocking and potentially off-putting to prospective students and their parents.

See CONDOMS, page 16

Admissions

Dear Editor:

I apologize for taking so long to respond to the article expressing concern about the enrollment of minorities.on campus. — This is an incredibly busy time of year for us. While I am not pleased with the article because the author did not investigate to uncover the facts that might not support his thesis, I am pleased to see that students are engaged. Thank you, friends.

We would like to take this time to thank you for all your kindnesses given to our family during this trying time of our son Kevin’s tragic motorcycle accident. In The Davidsonian, I simply want to state that I am really willing to meet with any individual or group that would like to look into the matter. The record since I have been here is a good one, and I expect it to get even better. Let me also say that we need the assistance of all students in achieving our goals. Letters to the editor do not help us move forward, and assertions about the commitment, or lack of commitment, based on...

Kevin continues to improve daily and with several more weeks of therapy we will have him back home with us. Our love and prayers for you all.

See ADMISSIONS, page 16

Easter Monday

This point can be made quickly: Why, as a Christian school, did Davidson not give its students Easter Monday as a vacation day this year? Forcing students to travel on what is the holiest day of the year and a day traditionally reserved for family is not consistent with Davidson’s spiritual goals. Was it the mania of professors refusing to budge an inch on the number of hours Davidson students must spend in class? Was it sheer thoughtlessness? Has the Grinch shown up to make a move on Easter? Whatever the reason, the policy should be reconsidered in the future whenever Spring Break and Easter coincide.

WALT

Student broadcasting has had an interesting history here at Davidson. WALT promises to be just the latest chapter in the continuing saga. The last student broadcasting venture here was the now wildly successful WDAV-FM, “Your station for the arts.” WDAV was begun years ago much like WALT is today. A group of interested students took a lot of initiative to get the station off the ground and were successful with it. So successful, in fact, that the college stole it for its own use as a public relations tool. Someone, somewhere decided that the college really needed a first-class, professionally run classical station rather than a student effort. So, they took it. Boom. Oh, there were protests, and the whole staff quit, and the pages of The Davidsonian were filled with anger about the affair, but the remarkable staying power of the administration and trustees prevailed. The student body’s memory is at most four years long, and the outrage of the theft has long since faded on this campus, as was almost certainly planned by the administration at the time. WDAV-FM is now as much an arm of the college as Davidson Update is. We should not let the administration exercise that natural advantage it has. Students come and go, but Davidson and its administrators remain. The launching of WALT should serve us as a reminder of the WDAV crime and we should as a whole resolve not to let it happen again. What if the college needs a country & western station next?