Davidson Christmas, page 8

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 11

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, December 6, 1989

The college’s new ticket policy, which has come under criticism by students, faculty, and staff, is not likely to change
significantly any time this season.

Sterling Martin, Interim Director of Athletics, defended the policy by explaining that it was not formed hastily. “It is not
a thoughtless ticket policy,” he said. The existing policy was formed with the help of a ten-member student advisory committee.

Martin wants to give the policy some time before considering any changes. “We'll give it a shot,” he said, “if
it just doesn’t work we'll consider changing it.”

The $10 and $12 ticket prices for the public and the two-dollar parking fee are seen as measures that help
keep the athletic department more financially independent.

Martin explained that Davidson is committing itself to Division I athletics in all areas other than football, and that this
commitment is expensive. The athletic budget is currently about $2.2 million a year, a figure that amounts to a “fairly
high percentage” of the college’s total budget, Martin said.

While Martin recognizes that $2.2 million is a large figure for a school the size of Davidson, he also says
that it may not be enough, especially with the addition of women’s scholarships. “It’s easy for [University of North] Carolina
to put another million in its budget, but it’s not for Davidson,” he said. Selling tickets at a higher price
and selling the tickets that students do not pick up the day before the game “creates revenue,” Martin added.

Tripp Helms, president of the Student Government Association, said that the SGA will look into the possibility of setting up
a ticket table in Chambers on game days. Helms said that this would enable students who do not go to
Baker the day before the game to easily get a ticket until noon, and then remaining tickets could be sold
to the public at the complex.

Senior David Blalock dies

By TRIPP HELMS

David Jeter Blalock ’90, committed suicide on Sunday, December 3 at approximately 3:30 a.m. His body was found by campus
police at approximately 8 a.m. in his car, parked close to the soccer field.

Friends last saw Blalock about 2 a.m. Sunday, and recall him being in relatively good spirits when he left them
to go for a drive.

Funeral services were held at All Saints Episcopal Church, Waccamaw, in Pawley’s Island, S.C. Brian Asbill ’90, Tom Goodrum ’90,
Charles Jordan ’90, Frank Noojin ’90, Steve Nuckolls ’90, and John Reuter ’89 served as pallbearers. A memorial service was
held on Monday at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Chaplain Chuck Hasty presided. Asbill, Jordan, Professor of Economics Glenn Lindsay, and
Dean of Students Will Terry participated.

Blalock is remembered for his good sense of humor and his constant questioning. “He was so inquisitive, always looking for
answers. He was so interested in the way things worked,” said one friend.

Friends also recall the quality of Blalock’s friendship. “He was very loyal, and trustworthy. You could always count on Blalock.”

Blalock was an economics major and a member of the Kappa Alpha Order. He volunteered his time in the Cities
in Schools Program of Charlotte, where he tutored a middle school student in basic academic skills.

Blalock was a native of Georgetown, South Carolina and attended Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Virginia. He is survived by
his parents George and Essie, his brother George and his sister Elizabeth. His girlfriend was B’easy Helms, ’92. His roommates
were Jordan, Noojin, and Nuckolls.
