10 Wednesday, October 25, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

On the sports front
By JOHN BURNS

Before you read this column, please read the letter to the editor sent by Coach Boettcher. Now, if you're ready, I will let loose a tirade unrivaled in human history. Just kidding. But really, since this is the second letter sent to this paper dealing with this issue, I thought you would really just love to hear what I had to say about it.

First of all, what’s the big deal? I have always read and in some instances referred to women’s teams as The Lady Raiders or The Lady Wildcats. I was under the assumption that female athletes were glad not to be confused with their male counterparts. Go ahead, call one of them a guy and see what happens. Also, I’m proud that we are able to refer to our women athletes as ladies; go to Queens and see what I mean. This paper has made a conscious effort to be egalitarian in its headlines; last week’s soccer article said “men’s soccer stomps one then ties one,” rather than just plain “soccer,” as though only men play the real sport.

Second, and this is more in response to Lucia Kendall’s letter, is it really desirable for us to have a sexually homogeneous society? If so, then I take issue with Ms. Kendall's treatment of men as sex objects in her latest letter (see the opinions page). I would much rather live in a world where women and men knew that they were different and treated each other as such. PLEASE NOTE: I am in no way condoning sexual discrimination, I am merely saying that life is nicer in a world where people can be different and equal at the same time.

I see no correlation between calling a female a girl and referring to a black male as “boy.” To me, the attitude behind the language is what is important. The term “boy” reflected a hatred and a warped view of humanity which should be fought wherever it is found. Referring to women as “girls” is the modern equivalent of “guys.” I am sorry Lucia, but “gals” went out with poodle skirts and sock-hops. This is why children are referred to as little girls. Again, the intention of the speaker is what is important; if the guy who wrote the “Freshman girl’s Bible study” poster didn’t mean to insult females, why should any offense be taken?

Finally, with the possible exception of jousting, it is easy to run out of terms in an article. Especially one written by an amateur reporter like myself or a member of my staff. There is a cardinal rule in journalism: avoid redundancy. If attitudes such as Coach Boettcher’s prevent me from using a certain term in one of my articles, that article will become redundant. Try inserting the term “team” for every reference to that team, and see how the article flows, it just doesn’t. I know that I maynot survive the wreck, but that’s the breaks. Meanwhile, a few more thoughts.... Am I the only one who wonders why we build a gymnasium with 4,500 more seats than we can fill and then regulate how many students (the only fans that regularly come to games) can get good seats? I admire Coach McKillop’s desire for rabid fans, but that rabidity will be reduced if you have to stand in line for tickets the day before the game. If the ticket policy is a first come, first serve policy, why can’t they just give the good seats to those who show their ID first at the game? I hope that Davidson students get up in arms about this stupid decision. Come on, let’s make this the Football Controversy of 1990.

Cross-country performs well at N.C. meet
By CARTER PAYNE

The Davidson cross-country team ran in Wilmington last Thursday in The North Carolina Collegiate State Meet. All of the Wildcat runners turned in good performances, allowing Davidson to place sixth out of a total of 12 teams. Sophomore Chris Otrok led all Davidson runners in the five-mile race by placing 23rd out of more than 100 runners with a time of 27:04. Ian Stewart was second best for the Wildcats, coming in at 45th with a time of 28:01. Ted Richardson was third for Davidson, and he was followed by Jay Clugston.

The exceptional effort turned in by the entire team was good enough to overcome tough foes such as East Carolina and Wake Forest's B team, both opponents which the Wildcats had never beaten. Congratulations to all members of the team for a fantastic effort and a good showing against North Carolina’s best.

In Good Health: IMACtion
By MARK D. PUCKETT

Ahhh, criticism. You dish some out; you get some back. Don’t be bitter, though. And I’m not disgruntled enough to... My mother used to say, “Ahhh, criticism. You dish some out; you get some back. Don’t be bitter, though. And never get to the...

Just Average and Spencer are winners this week
By QUINN McCUTCHEN

Due to a plethora of rainouts and a bevy of people not remembering to turn in their scorecards, week 5 was a rather sparse week for intramural scores. However, there were several exciting games.

Flickerball: The Just Average Guys unleashed a scoring blitzkrieg of touchdowns and extra points to soundly defeat the Titties 62-0. Drop and Give mercilessly pounded KA Gold 33-0 while The Old Men doubled Wine Us, Dine Us’s score 28-14. Delta Force shut out the Tall Cool Ones 35-0 and 2nd West Belk stopped Those Meddling Kids 26-13 in a rain-plagued match. In women’s flickerball, 3rd Rich blanked Flighty Fourth 19-0 and then was edged by Spencer 6-0.

Indoor Soccer: Confusion beat The Invaders 11-2. Hammond Eggs scrambled an undermanned Captain Pike & The Weiners 7-2, and KA Gold edged Panic Shock 5-3.

That's all, folks.

R.O.T.C. Blood Drive

Take time next Tuesday, October 31, to stop by the Union and give blood. The Red Cross will be working from 9-3:30. Register to win door prizes while you’re there!