Wednesday, October 11, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

DOBER, from page 1

"That land for years," said Copeland. "They usually incorporate it in their plans without considering that they don’t own it.
The land isn’t for sale. Would you sell the Mona Lisa?"

In order to link the new campus with the current “historic campus,” Craig proposed the narrowing, if not total re-routing
of Main Street. He detailed plans for a brick and landscaped promenade which would force most traffic down Depot and
Jackson streets.

In a phone interview with The Davidsonian, Davidson Mayor Russell Knox said, “I personally think that the strip will never
be restricted. It’s a State road which requires joint approval from the state and town. The idea is excellent for
the college but we want to do what is good for the college and the town.”

When asked about the narrowing and landscaping of Main Street, Knox said, “There are a lot of factors concerning the
downtown area. We couldn’t move Main Street to Jackson Street because of the railroad, but we're listening.”

Science Row and the Union in the Gym

The Dober report also identified the need to renovate buildings to provide additional room for classrooms and administration.

Craig proposed building a new Life Sciences building to house psychology, thus relieving some of Chambers’ overcrowding. The new building
will be next to the library and will face Concord Road.

Kuykendall said that money for the building will also be provided by the present campaign. Construction will begin as soon
as funding is received.

Relocating life sciences to Concord Road would create a “science row.” To unify the sciences, the Union will be moved
from the Grey Building to Johnston Gym. The present Union will be renovated to house a computer center and administration
offices.

Program coordinator Ruth Pittard said, “I like the plan a lot."

"We love this building but the other location is so much better," she added. "Now we’re on the academic side
of the campus and we have to pull people to the Union. At the Johnston Gym, people could just pass
through.”

Money for renovating the gym is not included in the campaign budget, which would put the proposed move no sooner
than five years away.

Not enough room in Cunningham

The Cunningham Fine Arts Building will also be renovated under the new proposal. Currently, the art, music, and theater departments
share the building.

When the art department moves, it will leave some office space, as well as a single large room.

Both Rupert Barber, chairman of the theater and speech department, and music professor Lawing assert that even this space is
not enough to provide for their growing departments.

The music department needs space in every discipline. Only 15 stations are currently in the listening lab, but Lawing says
the lab needs space for 75.

“We have two large music appreciation classes each term,” he said. “Test taking situations are extremely hard to arrange."

Choir size is determined solely by the size of the practice room. Although 90 people auditioned for the choir this
year, only 60 people could be accommodated.

Photo by Ed Mattews

What’s to become of Johnston Gym?

Sports complex nears completion

By MARGARET CARROLL

The face of Davidson College is changing. On November 11, the Baker Sports Complex will be dedicated, and plans are
now underway to renovate Johnston Gym to house the college union.

According to Grover Meetze, director of facilities planning, construction of the complex is on schedule.

Basketball equipment, bleachers, and gymnasium should be ready for the first home basketball game November 29, he said.

Work will continue even after the complex is open.

During the year following the opening, maintenance crews will be testing the pool’s dehumidification equipment and balancing and testing the
air conditioning system.

Brick steps will also be built from Johnston Gym to the Baker complex and a concrete walkway will connect it
with the walk in front of the old gym.

The road leading to Baker will probably be blocked off until these final plans are completed, and may be blocked
off permanently.

As part of the dedication, the college has planned Homecoming receptions for the past five graduating classes to take place
that Saturday morning. The dedication ceremony will be held at 11:30 a.m. and lunch will follow on the two intramural
courts.

The complex will be open for viewing after the 1:30 football game against Salisbury State.

Demonstrations, including swimming, volleyball, tennis, and intramural games, will be featured. The night will conclude with an intra-squad basketball scrimmage
in the arena at 8:15 p.m.

The athletic department is also replacing seven clay tennis courts with resurfaced hard courts. Both intercollegiate men’s and women’s teams
play on hard courts, of which there are five.

According to Jeff Frank, men’s tennis coach, “Davidson desperately needed more hard courts.”

A total of 12 courts will allow the tennis team to conduct men’s and women’s matches simultaneously.

Five clay courts will remain open for faculty and student use.

The Union is currently considering moving into Johnston Gym if it is renovated.

Plans drawn up in the Dober report also include moving the Union into the renovated gym, but Meetze says that
such plans have not yet been finalized and no money has been allocated as of yet to finance the change.
