Senior Bill Sellars goes up, up and away! for a climactic dunk in the Wildcats’ final Johnston Gym game. The
crowd, needless to say, went wild. Photo by Chuck Crews

We’ll pass on the Big South, thank you very much...
By BRUCE NEWSOME

Last week, I read an article by Glenn Rollins of The Charlotte Observer that said that the Big South Conference
might be Davidson’s best bet for a conference. After momentary heart-failure, I recovered enough to pray that Davidson does not
join the Big South.

While the current athletes might support the move to the Big South Conference since they could win conference awards and
such, it would be hard to recruit good athletes in the future. Do you think that such recruits as basketball
player Bruce Elder, soccer player Rob Ukrop, baseball player Greg Wilcox, or women’s tennis’ number one player Mary Beth Ruth
would come to Davidson if they were promised a schedule full of Winthrops, Campbells, or UNC Asheville? I think not.

While it is true that the Big South receives an automatic bid to the NCAA basketball tournament in 1991, I
cannot see any of the current Big South teams getting past the first round. As a result of this, Davidson
would not get the respect that it needs to raise itself to, say, the level of the University of Richmond,
which beat Indiana and Georgia Tech in last year’s basketball tournament.

Though Campbell and Baptist did beat Davidson this year, I am assuming that is/was a very unusual year (at least
Coach Hussey better hope so) and Davidson would normally beat those schools rather easily. Davidson needs to be in a
conference where the basketball level of the other schools is good. I am not advocating moving to the ACC, but
a conference such as the Colonial Athletic Association would be perfect.

See BIG SOUTH, page 11

“Drago!”
By LARRY DAGENHART

The Davidson students were calling for “Drago!” late in the second half of Saturday’s 75-64 win over Central Florida. With
28 seconds left, Bill Sellars, the lone senior playing his final home game for the Wildcats, went in for the
last time and made it count. Bruce Elder made his third steal in two minutes and passed to Magic Gaines,
who hit Sellars for a monster jam to close out forty great years at cozy Johnston Gym. If only the
glass had shattered.

The final win in the gym almost wasn’t that easy. At the four-minute mark, Davidson led by only three but
soon capitalized on five Central Florida turnovers and six straight free throws to pull away late. Davidson had balanced scoring
with five men in double figures. Elder was the high man for the eleventh time this season with 18 points.
Head coach Bobby Hussey said after the game, “I’m happy for our students. This was the type of crowd we’ve
been accustomed to and hopefully we can carry this over to next season.”

Cats close Johnston Gym with a bang
Junior Jay Schmitt reflected on not being in Johnston Gym next year. “It was the type of gym that was
conducive to the ultimate home court advantage. It'll probably be awhile before the Baker Sports Complex compares.”

NOTES: Monday night Davidson lost the final game of the season to Miami (FL) 90-78. The Wildcats finish the season
at 7-24.... The final record for games atJohnston Gym 1949-1989 is 211-115 (.647).

* from the Final Four, Around the Horn

The old and the new
By HAP BRYANT

“Change is inevitable in a progressive country. Change is constant,” said British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli. Indeed, when the buzzer
in Johnston Gym sounded last Saturday night for the last time, we witnessed part of an inevitable change. But it
didn’t make the passing any easier. The old days are gone. We’ve lost the most tangible memory of Lefty and
Fred Hetzel and Mike Maloy and Terry Holland and the top ten. Like it or not, the new days are
upon us.

When Bill Sellers hit the last shot in a Johnston Gym game, a highly-symbolic senior dunk, he signified with graphic
force a new era. This new era, the era of the Belk Gymnasium and the Baker Sports Complex, may be
just as exciting and successful in its own right, but one can’t help but think that the end of Johnston
Gym has finished the time of national prominence.

The Johnston Gym days were a time when NCAA programs could have 2500-seat, barn-like homes. The Belk Gymnasium days are
a time when money plays the game more than the players themselves. The Johnston Gym days were a time when
little-old Davidson could sneak up on Duke, Wake Forest, and the like and take them to the limit on the
court. They were a time when tiny Davidson could reach the final eight of the NCAA tournament, only to miss
by a whisker a Final Four appearance. Think about that for a second—a heartbeat away THE FINAL FOUR. Davidson? No
way, you say. But yes, in the Johnston Gym days everything was possible.

But the Johnston Gym era is over, and with it go the reminders of greatness. We’re entering a new realm
now, a realm of sight and sound. The sight is always with you. Go to the library, you see it.
Walk to your room, you see it. In the Union TV Lounge you see it. We see the new sports
complex, granted, but we see more than that. We see “Big Monday” on ESPN. We see the poor Mid-America Conference
on TV at 11:00 local time. They wanted a television package that bad. Progress? Thoreau once said, “We do not
ride upon the railroad; it rides upon us.” I have to think that Thoreau would have loved cozy Johnston Gym,
a place of individuality and self-expression. I can almost see him there, sitting at midcourt, ruminating on that last call
by the official and screaming across the way at the industrialists from Marshall. But in the new Belk Gymnasium, Thoreau
would be lost among the crowd. And if the crowd were still small, he would be lost in a maze
of complexity. Simplify, simplify.

The simple life—the term conjures up images of a blond and bespectacled historian. But in a way, the simple life
describes what we had in Johnston Gym. Now, though, life is infinitely more complicated. We've spent millions on a new
arena. In this case, millions are probably not enough to take Davidson back to the final eight.

What can we do in the Belk Gymnasium era? Well, we can still hope, and we can still dream. Our
dreams may not become reality, but we can take ourselves better through the effort. Millions for dreams and effort may
seem like a lot of money, but that’s how it works in the era of the Belk Gymnasium.
