“Friday, April 14, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

College library prepares for computerized catalogue

System will include sophisticated cross-referencing

By MARGARET CARROLL
The Davidson College library plans to install an automated computerized system in the near future to help both librarians and
library users locate needed materials. The library staff is presently looking at two different companies, Innovative Interfaces Inc. and Data
Research Associates, to decide upon a system for the library.

Acting Assistant Cataloguer Edward Proctor said that the library staff will learn about both of these two companies through day-long
seminars and demonstrations and then will decide which, if either of the two, it wishes to purchase. If neither company
satisfies Davidson’s needs, the staff will further investigate other automated computer companies.

The most noticeable change in the library will be that a row of terminals will replace the existing card catalogue.
Through use of these terminals, library users will be able to type in subject, author, or title and find out
whether the library has the book, whether it is checked out or not, and whether another library has the needed
book.

Through one aspect of this computerized system, Boolean searching, one will be able to type in more specialized topics through
the use of “and, or, and not.” For instance, if one is looking for information on contemporary politics, namely between
the United States and the Soviet Union, one can type “Reagan and Gorbachev, not Star Wars” or just “Reagan and
Gorbachev.” The computer will then search through the periodicals and books relating to the specific subject.

The new system will be used for acquisitions to order books, cataloguing to process books, serials to check in periodicals,
circulation to lend materials, and reference for “card catalogue.”

Library users will be given a code for circulation purposes which will be located on the student identification card. At
the circulation desk, the librarian will use a light pen to copy the borrower’s code onto the computer.

The process of installing the new system could take anywhere from six months to two years. However, all of the
cards in the card catalogue have already been copied into computerized language and will simply need to be further modified.

Referendum reveals 75 percent agree with condom availability

By SUSANNAH WELFORD
Due to heated controversy surrounding the issue of condom distribution on campus, the Student Government Association presented the student body
with a referendum Tuesday to gauge student opinion. Seventy-two percent of students responding to the survey favored condom distribution on
campus.

Because of differing convictions as to the method of distribution, the SGA purposefully worded the referendum so that students merely
decided whether some method was necessary and left the more complicated issue of distribution to be decided at a later
time.

The SGA needed “tangible proof of student opinion to be able to fairly represent the campus on the condom issue,”
explained SGA president Tripp Helms. Because student response was so overwhelmingly in favor of condom distribution on campus, Helms said
that the SGA will proceed to bring the issue to the attention of the Committee on Campus and Religious Life.

That committee will be directly responsible for making a recommendation to Dean of Students Will Terry and President John Kuykendall.

The SGA has also established an ad hoc committee to deal with the questions that this issue has generated. Sophomore
Rusk senator Cecily Craighill, a member of the committee, said, “The committee will discuss how to present the condom issue
to the Board of Trustees and will evaluate alternatives to the idea of condom machines.”

The SGA Ad Hoc Committee on the AIDS issue is working in conjunction with the efforts of the AIDS Action
Committee, but they are not actively participating in the battle to bring condom machines to campus.

Junior Caroline Buxton, Warner Hall senator, stated that the job of the SGA is to “present to the administration an
accurate picture of what the student thought on the issue and provide the means to do this.”

The SGA is silent at this point about what method of condom distribution it will recommend to the administration.

Clip this ad! Recycle it, and then recycle the remainder.
