---

14

Friday, September 8, 1989, THE DAVIDSONIAN

CHALLENGE, from page 12

come out to play.”

Hawkins said that despite the fact that the competition was not of the caliber that her club will face during
the season, the matches were a good workout. “The teams we faced, because they are not as skilled as college
teams, are unpredictable,” said Hawkins. “This means that our players have to really concentrate. The teams don’t settle into a
bump, pass, spike routine; a ball can come over at any time.”

The challenges allowed Hawkins to see her team playing in match conditions. “Rachel Thompson (freshman) looked better than she has
in practices,” said Hawkins. “She made some tough digs and passes in the clutch.” The entire squad looked good in
defeating their opponents; they can only hope that the regular season will go as well.

SOCCER, from page 13

“Our goal is to get an NCAA bid,” said Poisson. “Only 28 teams in Division I make it and we
want to be one of them.”

Slagle echoes that sentiment.

“We want to play as well as we can. Soccer is a ‘break’ type of sport. You have to make
your own breaks. Sometimes they go your way, sometimes they don’t.”

“But I would be happy if we were still being considered for an NCAA bid on the last day of
the season,” he concluded. “In all, I am confident of a good season.”

PREVIEW, from page 12

...jected starters transferred.

Schiavi, along with junior Britt Hammett and sophomore Eric Moledor, will be asked to step in and handle the linebacking
chores.

The secondary is riddled with uncertainty since last year’s only returning starter, Milt Watson, will be out two to four
weeks with a leg injury. Senior Mike Carney, junior Mike Noonan, sophomores Andy Hunt and Linsey Mills, and senior Todd
Sautter are competing for the four slots and will likely see a great deal of playing time.

The Wildcat schedule for 1989 seems to always produce a peculiar reaction: “Millsaps? Who the hell is Millsaps?” One may
ask the same question about many of the Wildcat opponents. Although the teams are unfamiliar, the competition will be fierce.
Coach Gatto and his staff have put together one of the toughest Division III schedules in the nation. Ferrum was
11-1 last year with its only loss coming in the national championship game.

Wagner was 8-2 and competed in the Division III playoffs. Dayton has always been at the top of the Division
III standings, and was 7-3 last year. Fordham is currently making the transition to Division IAA in the Colonial League,
and VMI is a Division IAA member of the Southern Conference.

What does all this mean for the 1989 season? Will the division change put more wins on the board?

The Wildcats should start out strong. The starting 11 on both sides of the ball can compete with every team
on the schedule. If enthusiasm, drive and determination are good for a few touchdowns, this year’s Wildcat Club could climb
to above the .500 mark. However, given the lack of depth on both sides of the ball, come mid-October the
injury bug may hit and the final four weeks of the season could be a struggle.

This year’s edition of the football team should definitely fare better than its recent predecessors. The Wildcats should finish with
a respectable 5-5 record.

Signs such as this have been popping up around campus lately, calling basketball sensation Bruce Elder to leave the courts
of Vanderbilt and return home.

FREE DELIVERY!

892-9046

ONE (1) 12" PIZZA WITH TWO TOPPINGS! AND 2 16 OZ. DRINKS... ONLY $8.25 + TAX

TWO FOR ONE SPECIAL TWO (2) 12" CHEESE PIZZAS... ONLY $9.00 + TAX ($1.25 EA. ADDITIONAL TOPPING)

PARTY SPECIAL 25% OFF ANY THREE (3) OR MORE PIZZA ORDER FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS ONLY!

PIZZA ENGINEERS OFFERS EXCELLENT JOB OPPORTUNITIES FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS -- APPLY IN PERSON.

20832 CATAWBA AVE. CORNELIUS, NC HOURS: 4:30-11:00 EVERYDAY
