How to handle a bout with homesickness

“I can honestly say that I have felt no deep desire to return to Florida”

By DAVID COARSEY

For a month before I left for school, my mother told me how much I was going to miss home.
She told me that no matter what, I would get homesick. I would respond the same way every time by
saying: “Yes, and that’s going to be the worst five minutes of my life.”

To some extent, my joke has proven true. I can honestly say that I have felt no deep desire to
return to Florida. The simple fact is, regardless of everything our parents have told us, most of the freshmen have
not been extremely homesick.

There are a couple of possible explanations for this. One is that there is so much to do that no
one has had time to be homesick. There have been so many ways to get involved in Davidson life, that
it has been easy for most people to adjust to their new environment.

The second possibility is that we have not been here long enough to feel extremely separated from home. After only
three weeks, Davidson still seems a bit like summer camp.

Reality has begun to set in, study has started, but for the most part, Davidson is a very new and
exciting place. There are always people to meet and new things to do.

There is the possibility that homesickness will set in after we have been here for a while and Davidson is
not so much fun anymore.

The people that have felt homesickness strongly are usually the people who are either afraid to get involved in their
new college life or those who are still clinging to their lives at home.

The only way to really combat this is to dive headfirst into college life. By doing so, you not only
eliminate time to sulk about home, but you also become integrated into your new environment.

You find fun things to do, and you meet others that share common interests.

The one common sentiment shared among freshmen is that they miss their old friends. They miss the security found in
familiarity.

Those who have been or are homesick were often simply not prepared to part with someone they had to leave
behind. Often these are the individuals with boyfriends or girlfriends. Although the extent to which this emotion is felt varies,
it is usually understood by everyone.

The transition between the security of life at home and the excitement of life after you leave home is both
invigorating and frightening. However, it is one that everyone must go through.

Although in a strong sense of the word, most of the freshmen have not been homesick, in a weaker form
everyone has felt it. Any time someone stops and thinks about home, wonders how his friends are doing, and wishes
he could see them, we could call this homesickness.

There is no way to completely avoid this, but the sooner you become a part of Davidson, the sooner you
will view it as home.

---

International fest!

Davidson goes international, then heads for the big top

The International Festival will be held on the Davidson campus from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the College Union
on Saturday, September 16th. Exotic foods from 24 different countries will be prepared, and there will be numerous exhibits and
forms of entertainment. There is no charge for admission, but there will be a minimal charge for food items.

Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats and Magicians of Taipei

“...Good, old-fashioned, razzle-dazzle, Barnum-style circus...” is how the Artists Series “Playbill” describes the Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats and Magicians of
Taipei. On September 20th at 8:15 p.m., these acrobats will perform on the Love Auditorium stage. Series season tickets may
be purchased for $8 prior to the show. However, the tickets can be purchased separately as well.

---

A warm summer day...

Freddie sits in the sun. The universe seems to be at peace with itself. Birds chirp, and the world feels
calm. Hidden within his drum are some things unimaginable, unpredictable, waiting for the right moment...

---

Test and papers are weeks away.
