12 In Good Health Monday, January 23, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Forget dieting unless you are willing to exercise
By MARK PUCKETT

Over Christmas break, I went into a local drug store to buy a Hallmark card for my grandparents. When I walked inside, I asked the high school cashier for the location of the cards. “They’re right next to the diet pills at the end of Aisle 2A,” she said. I thanked her and walked down Aisle 2A, noticing every edible manifestation of Christmas spirit—chocolate-covered cherries, Whitman Sampler’s Candied Nougats, and fruitcakes—in a drug store. I passed an innumerable number of artery-hardening agents. At the end of the aisle, I saw the Christmas cards. And the diet pills.

I picked out a card. Then I looked over the available selection of these pills. Although there must have been twenty different brands, I remember one claim that they all made, “Lose weight fast without getting hungry.” They stated also that their methods were “clinically proven.”

I understand why these items are allowed on the market, but I don’t agree with the reason. The 1980s have become an era of convenience in which we look always for the easy way to accomplish our goals. We rely on nuked food made in the microwave; conventional cooking methods are too slow for our pace. And many people who wish they were fit will try anything. They will take diet pills for months. And of course, they will lose weight because WHEN YOU DON'T EAT, YOU DON’T GAIN WEIGHT.

It is paramount to eat if you want to live. Not eating is the worst way to stay fit. I don’t know all the scientific ramifications of using these pills, but I do know that a disruption of regular eating habits (regular daily caloric intake) can affect the body’s metabolism.

My advice, then, follows: if you want to stay fit and possibly add years to your life, I recommend a combination of proper eating habits plus exercise. The short- and long-term effects of this program are unmatched by any others. If you resolved to make yourself a physically better person in the new year, then find an exercise that you enjoy and adhere to it. If you become bored, find another. If you don’t enjoy exercising, then don’t do it; but at least eat properly. Read the labels on packages before buying them. Peel the skin off of chicken. Find out about what you are eating.

If you choose not to exercise or eat properly during the new year, this choice is yours. But do me a favor—stay away from the pills.

RASSLIN’, from page 11

pounder Andy Cooke. Cooke has not wrestled since his junior year in high school and is “working the rust out” of his body. He has no difficulty with the conditioning but plans to work on the moves until they become second nature to him. At 190 is a sophomore who has just come off shoulder injuries. Thomas Lane is recovering from a football injury. According to Binns, Lane wrestles by instincts, pulling moves out of a hat. Another sophomore football player is Eric “Flea” Farmer. Though very small for a heavyweight, Farmer is also very quick. He basically enjoys toying with his opponents until they make a mistake.

These Wildcats are dedicated wrestlers who face long odds; they fill nine out of ten weight classes and have no depth in the lineup. Early hopes of winning dual meets are now focused on individual performances. And yet, these wrestlers are team players as shown by Clark’s attitude. Despite the accomplishments and inspiration, Clark downplays his status; he wants to work with and be a part of the wrestling team. Junior Andy Cooke comments, “The team accepts me gracefully. I don’t have to prove myself like in high school.” For the moment, Oddo concentrates on training the freshmen and sophomores and exposing them to collegiate wrestling. Individual performances are now the focus of the program. With persistent dedication, this young team can be a competitive force in a few years.

BRYANT, from page 11

mistakes and learn from them on the court. These periodic benchings are counter-productive. An offshoot of this lack of confidence has been the lack of emotion on the court. It seems that the players are so worried about conforming to a system that they have lost their passion for the game. Only Alan Hunter and Bill Sellers exhibit any emotion while playing. Freshmen Bruce Elder and Sterling Freeman have wanted to let loose, but the bench looms for them when they make a mistake, so they must stay composed.

Magic Gaines said earlier in the season that a fine line exists between being a basketball player and being a robot. Despite Gaines’ rather astute observation, Wildcat fans still see too many machines and not enough people out on the court. The cause is obviously the attitude that Hussey has taken regarding this team. Unless this attitude changes, and unless Hussey catches on to the realities of the game, Wildcat players and fans alike will be in for a long season.

TOURNAMENT, from page 11

Davidson started strong against Harvard, holding a 38-27 halftime lead. After the Cats built the margin to 15, Harvard went on a run to take the lead.50-47 midway through the second half. The Cats clawed back, however, behind junior Mo Gray who finished with a team-high 21 points. Alan Hunter put Davidson ahead to stay with a jumper with 2:17 left and Gray followed with a three-point play for a 63-59 lead. In the first round game against Davidson, Air Force sharpshooter Ray Dudley hit a three-pointer with two seconds remaining to give Air Force the victory 48-45. The Wildcats were down by as many as nine in the second half but fought back behind the strength of junior Jay Schmitt who scored 13 of his team-high 17 points in the game’s last half. Davidson capped the comeback when Sterling Freeman rebounded a missed shot and scored to tie the game 45-45 with 40 seconds left. Davidson held Air Force, who was averaging 90 points per game, to under 50 for the first time this season. Dudley, averaging 27 points, was held to 20, hitting seven for 24 from the field.

The final shot came after an Air Force timeout with 12 seconds to go. Despite good Cat defense, Dudley sank his shot from the NBA three-point line which is four feet beyond the NCAA line. Schmitt, Davidson’s starting center, made the all-tournament team, averaging 14.5 points and seven rebounds per game for the Wildcats.

HOOPS, from page 11

Coach Bobby Hussey had a chance to smile a little during and after the contest. “Things came too easy earlier and we had a tendency to not make that extra pass later,” Hussey explained as to why Florida International came back towards the end. A week ago Wednesday, Davidson lost a tough one at home to Maryland-Baltimore County 72-69. It took nearly four minutes for the Wildcats to get their first basket, but soon they found their intensity and took a 34-32 lead at the half. The first half did, however, include a lot of sloppy ball handling by both teams. Midway through the second half, it looked as if the Cats might run away with the game after Hunter got two jumpers in a row and Paul Denmond got a steal and a layup to put Davidson up 57-50. Maryland-Baltimore County soon answered, however, with a 10-2 run and the game was nip and tuck until the final buzzer. With 1:47 to play, Elder, who led all scoring with 27, hit a shot to bring the Cats within two at 66-64. After Maryland’s Jeff Reynolds and Kenny Reynolds scored consecutive baskets to put the Retrievers up by six, Elder responded again by canning a 3-pointer with 38 seconds left to cut their lead to 70-67. Davidson immediately called time out to set up its press. Gaines fouled Jeff Reynolds, who missed the one-and-one. The Cats needed a quick 3-pointer to tie the game. Gaines shot but missed; Freeman rebounded but as he was trapped in the corner, put up a hurried shot that hit the side of the backboard, which the referee called out of bounds. After the ensuing foul, Larry Simmons made both ends of the one-and-one to ice the game. Elder made an uncontested layup with two seconds remaining and Davidson, for some odd reason, was denied its time out that it tried to call after the shot was made, an unusual circumstance for the home team. “I thought we would have two seconds to hopefully get the steal and put one up,” said a disgruntled Hussey. “We made too many mistakes and let up defensively and mentally down the stretch,” he added.

Last Wednesday night the Cats lost a close game to Appalachian State 75-65. Appalachian, the only Southern Conference team to play Davidson this year, broke open the game in the last two minutes to win a game that was much closer than the final score. When Jay Schmitt hit a jumper with two minutes left, Davidson pulled within four points. However, the Mountaineers scored four straight points to take an insurmountable lead with 1:10 left. Davidson was led in scoring by freshman Sterling Freeman with 12 points.

In Davidson’s first game ever with Northern Illinois Saturday night, the Cats fell in a hard-fought game 79-74. Davidson started out fast and built a nine-point advantage midway through the first half. However, the Huskies came back to tie the game at the half 35-35 despite Bruce Elder’s 17 points. In the second half, the Huskies built a 12-point lead. Davidson then got on track as Mo Gray had his best game of the season as he erupted for 16 points. However, the Cats were unable to stop the Huskies’ big men as NIU answered every Davidson run. The Cats pulled within four points with six minutes left, but they could get no closer as NIU went home with a hard-fought victory.

Davidson’s next home game is tonight at 7:30 in Johnston Gym as the Cats try to beat the Campbell Camels. Then the team travels to Florida for games with Florida International and Central Florida.

Imagine the thrill of flying a jet aircraft! Air Force ROTC offers you leadership training and an excellent start to a career as an Air Force pilot. If you have what it takes, check out Air Force ROTC today. Contact: CAPT CARL WILSON 547-4537.