*&&*& THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH Anniversary Issue & & & April 1989

21

Davidson in the seven- ties will be remembered most for its decision to admit women. In 1973 the trustees made the decision official, even though Davidson had hitherto admitted a number of upper-class female transfer students.

In fact, Marianna Woodward was the first woman to graduate from Davidson on June 3, 1973. But such an arrangement was, at best, a compromise with the inevitable.

What was the true impact of co-education at Davidson? Bill Giduz’s tongue-in-cheek opus "Invade Campus," which appeared in the November 1973 issue of The Davidsonian, managed to capture some of the electricity that transformed the campus. Returning from France after having spent 15 months abroad, he was "cruelly" exposed to various adjustment problems. “The sterile life of a Southern scholar” was very definitely a thing of the past. For the first time at Davidson, there were enough members of the opposite sex to make life interesting.

No longer were weekend imports from neighboring women’s schools a necessity. Students were dismayed to find favorite professors censoring their lectures of even the mildest tinge of blue. A basketball game culminated in a stampede for the shower lest a pretty girl happen to be waiting outside the locker room. The main route to the post office moved off course by about a hundred yards and the little patch of lawn in front of the girls’ dorm became a hot spot on campus. Pin-ups vanished off freshman walls and the art of social conversation became one of the core requirements. Professors, however, refused to acknowledge that there were other things to do besides studying.

That at least has not changed. To quote English professor Gail Gibson, we’ve enjoyed “fifteen years with the women on top at Davidson.”

By Prem Manjooran

The beginning of the 70’s found the Davidson football team all set to “build for a national bid.” A bulletin at the side of the article says, “The most successful team in the Davidson football history impressed the pro football scouts... as pro football teams conducted their annual draft of college talent.” Gordon Slade was second in the draft to the New York Jets. Receivers Mike Kelly and George Hannon were the first and second pick of the Dallas Cowboys. Ed Terry was the defensive lineman and Steve Butler the safety lineman. Woody Hayes, Ohio State’s head coach, commended the “fine things” that Homer Smith (Wildcat football coach) had “done with the limited resources.” The football team, suspended for two years in a ruling by the NCAA because of the “illegal recruiting practices” of the Davidson swimming team, were further inspired to churn out first-class players. The illegal recruiting consisted of wooing the prospectives with preferential treatment (going as far as providing dates for them) by the Davidson swimming coaches. The homecoming football match was held at Ohio, one of the 6 universities which agreed to play with the suspended team. In defense of the decision to do so, the head coach and Union Director C. Shaw Smith said that the team was sure to have a better time at Ohio “with all the co-eds and nite spots there.”

By Anjali Sharma

QUEENS CORRECTION

The number for Queens Dorm is 332-9656. The number was published in error in the “Wildcat Handbook” and the error was repeated in the DAVIDSONIAN directory. Students are urged to note the correction.

OCTOBER 9, 1970

Come to see the World of Tom Clark

OPEN 10 AM - 5 PM
MONDAY - SATURDAY
The Tom Clark Studio Shop
125 N. Main Street
Davidson, North Carolina

MASTERCARD AND VISA ACCEPTED