sports The Davidsonian Thursday, January 26, 1989 By LARRY SLEDGE

As the end of the IMAC basketball regular season approaches, divisional play has begun to heat up. In the Women’s Division, all teams qualify for the tournament, and everyone is jockeying for better tournament seedings. Brant’s Beauties came away with their first victory of the season by topping the Wild, Wild 4th 25-10. Elizabeth Byne led the Beauties with 11 points. Anya McDonald poured in 14 points in the second half to help the Insatiables crush the Wild Things 52-17. The Insatiables improved their record to 4-0 and await a showdown with the only other undefeated team, Judy Krenzer’s Old Women, in a battle for the number one seed and a first-round tournament bye.

Only two games appeared on this week’s slate in A-league action. The first match-up pitted KA’s Really Nice Guys against BSC’s Cool Breeze. Nice Guys A.J. Morgan (27 points) and Cal Shay (17 points) proved to be too much for the undermanned Cool Breeze, as KA raced away with a 65-34 victory. In the other game, 2nd Little’s powerhouse N.U.B.Z. narrowly escaped Pika’s Teabaggers, as the freshmen got a 50-44 win. Tim Kerns of N.U.B.Z led all scorers with 24.

B-league basketball has 39 teams this year. Soon that field will be trimmed to 16 for the tournament, making every game crucial. The B.M.F’s used a balanced scoring attack, led by Steve Niff’s 9 points, to edge the Erectors 35-34, and save their unblemished record (5-0), with one game remaining. Two of B.M.F.’s previous victims also came away with victories. The Swishing Gerbil Pack beat the Lewis Mattisons 59-35 behind 19 points from Mike Maggart, and Simple Columnar Hoops obliterated Fetal Attraction 74-41. The Gerbils and Hoops, both 3-1, meet Sunday, January 29, at 9:00 p.m. in the game of the week. Jerry’s Kids blasted Gladiator Once 55-18, behind Steve Child’s 21 points, rounding out the week’s action.

In Good Health Weekend alternatives for scromping/hookage By MARK PUCKETT

For the Rampant Midwinter Date: Perusing the magazine rack at a convenience store recently, I thumbed through a Playboy. I happened upon a page of data about scromping. Apparently, scromping with a person you know, i.e. someone you are involved with in a relationship, burns 120 calories. Scromping with a stranger, i.e. one-night renegade with somebody you don’t know, burns over 200 calories. Although these numbers vary from partner to partner, there is no doubt about the beneficial aerobic effects of scromping. It even builds endurance while toning stomach muscles and strengthening your lower back. If, however, you practice some unsafe mode of scromping, you cancel any positive bodily edification you might have achieved. You also risk acquiring a series of debilitating French diseases. Therefore, applaud (clap) your weekend odyssey of fornication, but wear a raincoat and rubbers if you value your existence.

For the Midwinter Safety Date: This weekend teems with options for the non-lecherous. Other than the usual Union activities (movies, SGG&L, midnight...

See SCROMP, page 7

Davidson loses “revenge game” against Campbell By LARRY DAGENHART

It was the same old thing. The stands at Johnston gym were only half full and Davidson lost its seventh game out of its last eight...to Campbell University, 63-50. The Wildcats were seeking to avenge their loss at Campbell earlier this month. In that game, the Camels took Davidson's lead right at the end. The Cats (5-14) led only one time during this rematch, 22-20, in the first half. Davidson lost any momentum it ever had in the final seconds of the first half as a missed shot by Campbell was followed by the Camels’ Brad Childress to give them a 27-22 lead at halftime. In the second half, Campbell stretched its lead to 10, and Davidson would get no closer than five as Jay Schmitt and Bruce Elder scored a driving layup and a three-pointer on consecutive possessions to make the score 52-47. The Wildcats, who shot a horrible 38 percent for the game, came up empty on their next seven possessions thanks to various turnovers and missed shots. They managed only one basket in the last three and a half minutes—a desperation 3-pointer by Elder, who led Davidson scoring with 14 points. Bill Sellers was the only other Cat in double figures with 10. In a late game tonight, the Wildcats play away at Florida International and will be at Central Florida this Saturday night.

Senior Bill Sellers towers over the defense and slams two for the Wildcats against Campbell. Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Don't Despair
This year’s isis will produce next year’s victories
By BRUCE NEWSOME

Magic Gaines and Dick Seideloff alone provided 50% of the offense last year. Of this year’s juniors, none averaged double figures last year even though Schmitt, Hunter, and Gray all started. Gray led the class with an eight point-per-game average. The juniors have, however, proven that they can score. Schmitt played well in the Connecticut Mutual Classic and was named to the all-tournament team. On Saturday against Northern Illinois, Gray found the range on his rifle shot and collected 16 points off the bench. Hunter has also been hot in several games and can hit the three-pointer. However, none of these three have been able to score well consistently like Rucker and Himes did last year. Hopefully, these three along with Seidel and Gaines, if Coach Hussey would ever play them more than a few minutes at a time, will learn to be dependable scorers.

This year’s freshmen were highly recruited and have tremendous potential. One recruiting expert ranked this class as the best in the Southern Conference. Elder and Denmond have both shown that they can score in the college game, as Elder got 24 points.

See HOPE, page 7