The facts on AIDS, page 4

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 14

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Monday, January 23, 1989

Huntersville man arrested after dramatic chase

Suspect allegedly stole stereos from cars on campus

By DELIA JOHNSON

Charges are pending against David Francis Maillie, 17, of Huntersville, for larceny as a result of a dramatic foot and car chase that began on the Davidson College campus.

According to police reports, at about 10 p.m. January 7, Maillie was discovered parked behind the football field in a yellow pickup truck.

As Officer Emory McLaurin of the Davidson College Police Department approached the truck, the suspect drove off. McLaurin followed and began the chase when the truck did not pull over when McLaurin flashed his blue lights.

McLaurin pursued the truck into Cornelius and tried to stop it by hitting it when it stopped suddenly in front of Cashion’s Food Mart.

The chase continued onto Highway 73. Maillie allegedly threw two car radios out of the passenger window of his truck. He then turned off onto Old Beatty Ford Road and stopped the truck on Belle Isle Drive, where it was hit again by the patrol car.

Maillie then allegedly jumped out of the truck and ran into the woods with college and Cornelius police officers in pursuit. Five to ten minutes later, McLaurin reported that a car came down the road, the suspect got out and was arrested for the traffic violations.

College police expect to add more charges to the traffic violations as the paperwork is completed. Maillie told McLaurin that the five radios, two depth finders, and 20 to 25 cassettes in the back of the pickup truck were stolen, but had been put there by a friend.

Meanwhile, back at Davidson, a basketball coach returned to his car after a game to find that someone had broken into his car. It was parked 30 to 40 feet from where Maillie’s truck was parked before the chase began. Cassette tapes and an AM/FM cassette receiver had been taken. Another nearby car had been broken into and the same items were stolen. Both cars had been locked and entrance gained by a “Slim Jim” tool.

Director of Public Safety Jackie Hughes believes that Maillie is a professional. “The truck was loaded with stuff,” says Hughes, “and it seems to me that he was bringing it around.” He urges students to report strangers on campus. Both Cornelius and surrounding towns are growing, says Hughes, and “we are getting the overflow.”

He encourages students to lock their cars, make sure they check their cars every 24 hours, and remove valuables from view or place them in the trunk. McLaurin repeated these warnings and reminds students that “the honor system works among students, but not among outsiders. They have no sense of honor.”

Community choirs sing at Davidson to celebrate King

By JAY CHAUDHURI

Approximately four hundred people attended the Third Annual Gospel Choir Celebration in honor of Martin Luther King, Jr., held in Love Auditorium last Sunday. Charlie Summers, former chaplain at Davidson College, was the guest speaker.

Summers praised King “as a scholar, not a politician” who sacrificed a secure career for his struggle in civil rights during the 1960s. “He was a drum major for justice,” said Summers, “but he must have died a thousand times.”

Summers discussed King’s uneasiness with the southern white liberal clergymen who requested him to “slow down” and “be patient” with his civil rights movement.

“Martin Luther King, Jr. said now is the time for civil rights and direct confrontation,” Summers said. “Time does not cure social ills. The time is always right for doing right.”

Following Summers’ sermon, seven gospel choirs from the area performed songs that hailed King.

Senior Melissa Givens emceed the choirs.

“These gospel songs are born of the same spirit that catapulted Dr. King into the forefront of history,” she said. “They are based on faith and grounded in belief in a better life for all.” The program was filled with frequent hand-clapping and foot-tapping.

“The primary purpose, besides honoring Dr. King,” said Brenda Tapia, Davidson’s acting chaplain, “is to provide an opportunity to bring town and gown together. Many black employees working here are members of these surrounding congregations.”

Attendance has increased in the last three years, especially from the Charlotte area, and this year’s gospel festival was attended by blacks and whites, young and old. However, Tapia was “very disappointed” with the non-blacks of the Davidson College community. She had hoped that more college community members would have taken time to show interest.

The event was sponsored jointly by the Chaplain’s Office, the Black Student Coalition, and the Chapel Committee.

Members of the Reeves Temple AME Zion Church Choir sing at the third Annual Gospel Choir Celebration.

Photo by Alex Hayden