12 Friday, April 14, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The tap story today

Due to student support, the Human Resources Committee has determined that a condom machine does not provide enough options to
students. Complete "Gas Stationization" of Davidson will include a greater choice.

Sandwiches | Bud? | Chocolate | Condoms | Cigarettes | Pregnancy Tests | Other Miscellaneous Items

New easy-to-open pouches may not use the station's fuel. Promoters of financial awareness week seemed to be a huge success.
Don't you know that Styrofoam is terrible for our environment?

The trustees, uncertain as to whether to keep the lamp or abolish it, are looking into alternative plans.

Come on, Cal, I don't hang with lamps! What he starts knitting our women? One suggested idea is to drop
him out of Freddie to a class. Here are the candidates:

How can I be sure you weren't sent to irradiate me?

Kinda lonely

QUEENERS, from page 6

Other students point to better food and more relaxed rules as benefits of coeducation. Sophomore Sarah Taylor said, “The food
has gotten better, the facilities are better and we’re getting more sports to get more boys and girls to the
college. We’re having more fun; there are more parties on campus. We don’t have to drive out to Davidson for
entertainment anymore.”

The first-semester freshman curfew requiring students to return to the dorms by 1 a.m. on weeknights and 2 a.m. on
weekends has been abolished. Visitation rules have been extended to midnight on weeknights and, according to several students, are not
enforced at all in the male dorms.

Several students lamented the passing of the concept of the all-female school. Howard said, “I’m glad I had the experience
of going to an all-girls’ school. It was just a neat thing. A lot of girls in high school would
hang out with only guys. When I got to Queens it was the first time I had girl friends. It
gives you more confidence in yourself—you can be you.”

Another student agreed. “No one goes to classes in pajamas anymore,” she said. Wood said, “The decision to go coed
was a hard one, it was met by tears, especially from alumni and some seniors, but it has gone extremely
smoothly.”

Woody O’Cain, assistant director of admissions, said that Wireman’s plan is to get the college to a 50-50 level over
the next eight years and to increase the size of each freshman class to 220 overall, a 37 percent increase.
A recent press release regarding a gift to the college characterized Queens as “fully coed.” O’Cain said it was “doubtful,”
although possible, that Queens would dip under 50 percent female.

Taylor said she was comfortable with the pace by which Queens is integrating. “If it took longer, there would be
more complaints. I never wanted to go to an all-girls’ school, anyway,” she added.

Wood said that recruiting males to attend Queens was “not as much of a problem as I thought it would
be. The mission of the college was always appropriate to both sexes.” She remarked that the male students seem to
enjoy the odds, the almost 15-1 ratio they find on campus.

O’Cain’s sole duty last year was to recruit male students to Queens. He said it was a matter of selling
Charlotte, the academics, and the reputation of the school to male applicants. Adams said, “I feel comfortable at a primarily
girls’ school.” Adams said that Queens' small size produced some discomfort, though. With the advent of males at Queens, the
college has decided to go heavily.into sports: it now has a tennis team, and basketball, club soccer, and possibly golf
are planned for next year, according to O’Cain. The new emphasis on sports has produced a very visible manifestation of
the change in the selection of a mascot. Administrators decided in February to make an apparently male lion Queen’s first
mascot, a choice that irritated many female students. Jenkins said, “I don’t think the name is female. I’m sorry, but
I don’t know many girls named Rex. It has no mane, which says to me it’s female, but it’s a
very male-looking lion.” While several students were unsure whether or not the mane was merely an oversight, they seemed willing
to give the college the benefit of the doubt on the mascot. But as sophomore Ann Taylor said, “We wouldn’t
have one at all if the guys weren’t here.”

IMACtion, from page 10

They certainly have the potential to win again, despite an earlier regular season loss to the Old Men. Picking a
winner from this field would be a challenge. Based on the regular season only, the two perennial powerhouses over the
past three years have been the Master-Batters and Coach’s Last Stand. Both have only one regular season loss over that
time span. However, both have also had difficulty at tournament time. IMAC softball is very much a game of streaks,
and more than likely this year’s champ will be one of the better-than-average teams who peak at tournament time. As
the season closes with the final sport, watch for the underdog, the Box Seekers, to take home the title.

LAX, from page 9

with their sidewalk driving and beer can-throwing tactics. Playing with only one extra line of middies is like riding into
battle with only the baggage train in reserve. Everybody plays more than they want to. Seth Force had a big
game anchoring the defense. The recent initiate into manhood, Phil Degnan, had a good game, while the melonball shooter, Huber,
was firing away with the night before determinedly forgotten. Brian Keller stepped into the defense for the first time and
did a great job. Ned Carroll turned his masseuse-like hands to good use handling the stick. In the end, it
was Tennessee 8, Davidson 5, with goals from Crystal and Tregoe. On Saturday, the team plays Greensboro, away, and then
on Sunday, we take on Duke here at 2 p.m.

GIFT, from page 11

due to lack of funds or low priority on Davidson’s list. The first vote on the gift narrowed the possibilities
to a faculty research grant and service scholarship. The faculty research grant was a good idea. As pointed out by
some faculty, however, they can get the money they need for research. If other gifts were important to you, did
you vote? If you did vote, did you encourage your friends to vote? The service scholarship will enable people to
become involved in their communities and to learn from their experiences in helping others. We should feel proud to leave
such a legacy. This gift shows that we care about the world around us and want to make a difference.
The experiences people gain from this scholarship will have a more profound effect and last longer than a statue ever
could.

Barbara Matheny

CHILLY, from page 11

Aids, condoms, and other health items; distribution at the beginning of the year; and condom machines. The committee, after investigating
these and other options and consulting students, will make a recommendation to the President of the college. He will make
the decision, and I think he will be receptive to student viewpoint on the issue. I encourage all of you
to contact your SGA senators or myself and let us know how you feel about this. We want to recommend
the option that best serves student needs, and we can only determine that through your input and discussion.

Tripp Helms, SGA President

MASCOT, from page 11

fondly dubbed the “Gnome Dome”; spirited fans from all over the area throng into the stands in their red pointed
hats. Down the court gaily skips the DAVIDSON Gnome in a bright blue suit, leading them in the swelling cheer,
“Pointed hats is where it’s at!” Gentlemen, this is unity.

Sincerely,
Sarah Robinson
John Sillars
