*&*&x#% THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH Anniversary Issue %&#&%& April 1989

Athletic issues grip campus in the thirties

Will joining the Southern Conference sacrifice Davidson's academic integrity?

YSSC, debate club, fraternities, chapel, classes, and athletics crowd the pages of Davidsonians from the 1930s. Ornate headlines list the
newest debate club officers. Interesting speakers for the mandatory chapel meetings expand their moralities once again. Emotional articles bring the
tremendous athletic victories of the 30s into the present.

The 1930s began with a bang as the June 7 commencement ceremonies saw both the dedication of the ‘new’ Chambers
building in addition to the inauguration of President Lingle. The men who attended Davidson during this time found their lives
wrapped up in such issues as whether freshmen were paying proper respect to upperclassmen and the formation of Sigma Phi
Epsilon from one of the many social clubs.

Clubs formed a large part of campus life. The international relations club, the music club, the drama club, and the
debate club heavily involved students. A club existed for every activity, every talent. The YSSC, a huge organization, had Davidson
men teaching Sunday School and helping out in the community.

Athletics also played a large part in Davidson life during the early 30s. In 1933, basketball had an exceedingly successful
year, coming out high in the big five ranking which included Wake, Duke, State, and Carolina. Victories over State ring
through Davidsonian pages, although beating Duke signified a special occasion. The freshmen were required to see Davidson sports through thin
and thick. College regulations ensured they would attend every game—armed with a megaphone and a freshman beanie.

In the latter half of the 1930s, athletic policy became an important issue. There was controversy over joining the Southern
Conference, which offered Davidson a bid in 1936. Students, faculty, and administration divided on whether the conference would harm Davidson’s
stance on the non-commercialization of athletes. Many felt that if Davidson joined the conference, academic integrity would be sacrificed for
a place in the winners’ circle. Equally opposed were those who insisted that the conference only held greater opportunity for
Davidson athletics. As a result of the widely publicized proposals circulated by Dr. Frank Grahams, Davidson eventually joined the conference.

On June 7, 1937, the college celebrated its 100th year. The Centennial pageant spanned three periods of the school’s past
history. It focused on the prehistoric era, the college’s past, and the future. When students returned in the fall, one
of the largest controversies erupted.

“Two of our students have been required to withdraw from our college for transporting intoxicating liquor and another large group
of students has been required to disband their organization,” wrote Dr. Sentelle in The Davidsonian. Due to this incident, the
faculty cut the number of general dances to four, allowed each fraternity only one party, and canceled the costume ball.
Students arose in anger. Finally, a compromise was reached with the formation of a committee of 21 members to enforce
Davidson’s laws concerning the illegality of alcohol consumption.

The 30s ended well for The Davidsonian. For the first time in 24 years, The Davidsonian, edited by Dick Vowles,
won All-American standing from the National Scholastic Press. Only 28 papers in the county received this honor. The Press commented
on The Davidsonian’s extraordinary news coverage as well as their use of cuts. Throughout the 1930s, The Davidsonian kept a
light finger on international events, gauging students' opinions and the political situation in Germany.

By Suzanne Craymer

Davidson Theatre

Mon. & Tues., February 2nd & 3rd
“LITTLE CAESAR”
—with—
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, JR.

Wednesday, February 4th
“GREAT MEADOW”
—with—
JOHN MACK BROWN & ELEANOR BOARDMAN

Thursday, February 5th
“GOING WILD”
—with—
JOE E. BROWN

Friday, February 6th
“SUSAN LENOX”
—with—
GRETA GARBO & ROBERT MONTGOMERY

Davidson Men Are Always Welcome

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

January 29, 1931

OCTOBER 16, 1930

FIRST CHARTER NATIONAL BANK

It’s Through Competition That The Quality Of Our Service Is Enhanced.

Member FDIC

Davidson Office: 892-4644 * Cornelius Office: 892-3933
Huntersville Office: 875-3400
Offices in Cabarrus & Rowan Counties: 786-3300
