6 JYA JOURNALS, from page 5

They narrated on American appearances, habits, and national politics. Apparently, we all tend to be loud, obnoxious, but friendly. A Scot could spot an American from miles away by the inevitable turtleneck. Many of these observations were also expressed in a pub. Usually, the pubs would fill up around lunch and empty at two, only to become crowded again shortly after dinner. Every subject under the sun received equal coverage by an equally diverse group of people. Old men in kilts drank drams while arguing the latest football game. Their accents verged on the point of creating a foreign language from English. “Dinna shougil noo, lassie!” one man warned me as I jogged his elbow, afraid I'd spill his drink.

Pubs acted as the great melting pot of University life; after or before classes, students would always be at the closest pub. With friends, stereotypes become as elusive as the Loch Ness Monster.

Crazy across the sea
-STEPHANIE WYATT and CATHY NELSON
Ambassadors to France and Germany

How often have you been in the situation where you are surrounded by people who have no idea what a fraternity or a sorority is? Have you ever eaten lunch on a park bench and discussed world politics with a bum? And did anyone ever tell you that “Americans don’t know how to live”? These are just a few of the experiences similar to our own, regardless of the country he or she visited. And while every person who has talked to an abroad returnee has heard how much fun it is (and it really is fun), it sometimes makes us question some things about ourselves. We never realized how much we are affected by American culture and ideas—even things as simple and “obvious” as women being able to vote, or how we take for granted the security of living in a big country separated by two oceans; Europeans are much more concerned about the possibilities of another war in their countries. We often felt the need to defend America, yet we couldn’t help but see another’s point of view.

We realized how lucky we are. Disregarding the obvious benefits of the “personal growth, bilinguality, and cultural and knowledge diversification” that we gained (the Study Abroad office promised you all those things), we’d have to say that some of the best parts of going abroad are the crazy things that happen to you. It wasn’t too surprising after a while to see people flashing you in true trenchcoat-and-bowler-hat style. It happened more than once! Once a man asked us to watch his running car while he went across the street to buy a stamp (he must have heard about the Honor Code!). The food there is a little different. At one dinner, the chicken head was sitting on the table as we were eating its body. That was a little eerie! Buying a beer in McDonald’s isn’t too strange either.

The Castle Urquhart at Loch Ness, Scotland.

Stephanie Wyatt visits Cahors, France, with Monsieur & Madame Toulmonde, her “French parents.”on a park bench and discussed world politics with a bum? And did anyone ever tell you that ‘Americans don’t know how to live’?” - Stephanie Wyatt & Cathy Nelson

Crazy, but buying one on Oktoberfest is; that must be the biggest, wildest party in the world! Likewise, the walls have heard countless student woes and conversations. After a while, as I became more and more comfortable with the easy Scottish way of life, I stopped searching for the stereotypical Scot. Perhaps they exist somewhere, but I believe that once random strangers grow into fast friends...

Hey Kids! Fill in the BLANKS

Hey You! What Fun! Fill in the blanks with words that you think fit best. You can use characters. Great way to begin.

...experiences that we had as students studying in Europe this past fall semester. We were both on non-Davidson programs, and while one of us was in Toulouse, France, and the other in Freiburg, West Germany, we are sure that every person who went abroad faced situations and...

The German Autobahn is the greatest road in the world. While one person remarked that “It’s still just a highway,” there is nothing quite like being able to go as fast as you want! Traveling itself is fantastic and definitely a challenge for those of us who aren’t quadlingual: Taking off with foreign currency and...

...that sometimes we didn’t even visit the “monuments”! Racing to get to your hotel before the curfew time (a common thing in a lot of European cities) was a big bummer—especially if you were totally lost, out of taxi fare, or most importantly, with that exciting foreign man or woman of your choice! (Italian men don’t have “that” reputation for nothing, which can be both fortunate or unfortunate, depending on your goals for the night.) Of course, the experience wasn’t all a party, and it really did...

...to live in a country as powerful as the USA when we got through customs in many countries a lot more easily than citizens from other places. It’s almost as if nobody wants to fool around with America.

...town of Heidelberg, West Germany. It would be easy to go on and on about other observations, but we can’t really describe them with any justice. It’s great to be back at Davidson, and while we don’t see things in quite the same way as we did before, we do realize how “fun” it is to be here, too! If you were abroad last term and have a story to tell, submit it to The Davidsonian by Monday night, preferably on disk.

Hey Boss! Hey, I’d think you’re walking down the park path, then hang on here! He’s in those guys we think, hey look, there’s (expletive). A disc (first name) a broken bunch of (adjective). I’d think you’re just fine. What a year, be thinking his looks like—oh, you think of George, well I do, well, I think he is a funny person. At least he doesn’t...

Jeepers! This is heavy. Hey, check out our boy. I’d sure like to buy two best. We’re obviously the top party. So you wanna small talk? Off to the boss’s toilet next. Moving to Commons is best. 

...as we... they met...