24 Oct 1914, from Page 9

As many as three girls per room. Fraternities were well established at Davidson by 1914 and were located in the rooms of Old Chambers. Freshmen were prohibited from rushing a fraternity until their second semester. The fraternities put on school-wide dances three times a year with the girls: Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics. These were held in Mooresville or Concord, but never on the religious grounds of Davidson. A typical student, according to Dr. Davidson, would have a hard time keeping up with his date. The men were required to switch dates for each activity over the weekend, culminating with the formal dance ending at midnight on Saturday. Dancing beyond twelve would be dancing on Sunday, which was utterly forbidden. Drinking and gambling were the primary illegal forms of entertainment, and both were prohibited by the college in order to promote a moral and Christian atmosphere. A typical 1914 student would furthermore find himself in Chapel every day. This was required and enforced. Athletics were secondary to education as they are today. Credit and grade guidelines restricted eligibility, and transfer student athletes had to study for a definite time period before they were permitted to play. The campus that the typical 1914 student attended was smaller. Most of the buildings existing in 1914 are gone, with the exception of the library—now the Carnegie Guest House. Old Chambers was in its last decade in 1914, for it would burn down from a seemingly harmless student trick in the 1920s. Dr. Davidson tells a story of how a piece of paper on fire dropped from the top of the building by a student, which was a common form of entertainment practiced by the students, caught the building on fire. The three main, although small, dormitories stood on the row where Watts, Little, Belk, Cannon, and Sentelle now stand: Georgia, Rumple, and Watts. Watts later burned and was rebuilt on the same site. Modern transportation, of course, was scarce, if even available in 1914, so students didn’t have the parking problems that we do today. Although 182 students were North Carolina natives, the 1914 student body had 335 students hailing from such faraway places as China, Persia, and Japan. The typical 1914 Davidson student attended a school similar in principle yet different in appearance, practice, and social atmosphere than a student does in 1989. But by glimpsing over student life, we can see remnants of life in 1914 that are still present in either physical or spiritual form today.

By Charles Marshall

LADSPEAK, from Page 8

Democratic form of self-government at Davidson.” The newspaper and annual depended on the hearty support and cooperation of every member of the student body. “Pep” was a subject of discussion, and Ulman Alexander brought ginger into his “short, snappy talk.” To conclude the reception, “Chief” Mullen introduced the faculty to the new students “in his usual happy manner,” and Coach stood on the row where Watts, Little, Belk, Cannon, and Sentelle now stand: Georgia, Rumple, and Watts. Watts later burned and was rebuilt on the same site. Modern transportation, of course, was scarce, if even available in 1914, so students didn’t have the parking problems that we do today. Although 182 students were North Carolina natives, the 1914 student body had 335 students hailing from such faraway places as China, Persia, and Japan. The typical 1914 Davidson student attended a school similar in principle yet different in appearance, practice, and social atmosphere than a student does in 1989. But by glimpsing over student life, we can see remnants of life in 1914 that are still present in either physical or spiritual form today.

By Charles Marshall

APPER, from Page 11

Mammals. This picture... is being used exclusively to present to college men the problems of life that confront them after they have completed their education and are out in the world.” Freshmen at Davidson in the Twenties were regarded as “unruly” and were known to all as “rats.” Hazing was voluntarily abolished around 1922. A “Court of Control” was then established to take on the task of “convincing them that they are freshmen” (September 17, 1925). Of course, a large majority of these “rats” ended up joining fraternities. An October 10, 1929 editorial expounded upon the virtues of this sacred society. “It is a beautiful and inspiring thought that Jesus himself chose the method of brotherhood to advance the greatest cause ever conceived... We believe that the fraternity which fails to uphold the same ideals of bodily and spiritual cleanliness is falling far short of its goal.” It is evident that Tudor Hall still retains these virtues of old! The workload at Davidson in the 1920s, according to the October 16, 1925 editorial, “Hard Work,” was just as much a concern to students then as it is now. The prevailing attitude then, to be sure, reflects the ideals of today’s students, and mirrors their approach. “Have you a high standard in life? If not, spend hours alone in meditation and prayer and get a vision of your task... matriculate in the University of Hard Work.” The administration also adopted this approach to academics at Davidson in this era. Therefore, cars were a chief concern at the time. These vehicles were considered to be “detrimental to the very purpose for which the students enroll in the college... in the possession of the college student... it would prove a distraction and a form of dissipation” (April 24, 1926). Sports in the twenties at the College often rated front page news.Fervor concerning football especially was almost religious. One of the greatest catastrophes of the age had occurred when The Davidsonian ran the headline, “Davidson Wildcats Lose Feline Mascot by Death.” This September 18, 1924 article was an elegy to the symbol of Our Team: “the ‘Red and Black’ mascot, the Davidson fighting wildcat, passed away last night and joined the great company of his forbears that moulder on mountainside... throughout America’s wide domains.”

Although we are all loyal to our chosen school, one must admit that all students throughout the ages have at some time exclaimed, “Gosh, wouldn't it be great if the school just burned down? Then I wouldn't have to do my physics lab for tomorrow!” Davidson students got this wish granted on November 28, 1921. In the most important news story of the decade, the original Chambers building burnt down, incurring $250,000 worth of damage. The physics department and lab, the museum, the old library, five classrooms, and dorms for 135 students (including Woodrow Wilson’s old room) were all lost in the blaze. The December 2, 1921 issue of The Davidsonian related this vivid description of the tragedy: “As the fire was dying down a bugler sounded assembly, and the students, coming from all directions, some clad only in pajamas and bathrobes, lined up in body. Dr. W. J. Martin made a ringing address, declaring... that an even greater Davidson would arise from the ashes of the old Chambers building.”

By Heath Hardage

Still managed to struggle through — Fetzer received a “continued applause” for his football pep-talk. Reflect it in their writing. Ladspeak or not, I know some of the war years with a fair amount of victory. August 23 marked the third commencement of 1945 and the last summer session of our demanding academic life. It’s a shame that although Davidson students are still very personal and amiable, they can’t somehow it seems to get lost in keeping up with traditions. 

By Carol Gatewood

March 31, 1945 brought the registration exceeding 450 (120 returning vets), the first postwar semester, and the return of spring break. By 1948 a dream of 25 years was in the process of coming true with the construction of Johnston Gym and the senior class finally outnumbering the freshmen again. The college also expected 250 aviation cadets to arrive in March for a five-month instruction in physics, math, American history, and English. The increase would bring the student body to a crowded total of 800 men. The Davidsonian of December 11, 1941, reprinted President Cunningham’s Monday morning chapel address in the editorial section. It is in part: “I wish to express a word of caution today against panic and hysteria at this time. It is possible that some few students may feel that they are called to turn aside from their preparation and hasten into the military service of the country. My prediction is that there is plenty of time yet for that service. The word which I wish to stress particularly to you today is that you are engaged in a fundamental defense task. You must beware that you do not throw away an opportunity which has been denied 97 percent of young men—those who do not get to college. We must be engaged in a fundamental defense task.”

Davidson students practiced blackout procedures. The basements of Chambers, the new library, the science building, and Rumple dorm were designated as safe areas. On October 9th, a parade was given to honor the parents and wives of Davidson men in the service and to inaugurate the scrap metal drive. The athletic department began a compulsory three-hour-a-week athletic program featuring the “Cretan Labyrinth” obstacle course (which, one reporter joked, greatly increased the mortuary business in the area). Spring break was canceled for 1943 for a variety of practical reasons. The week extra would...

By Katharine Armstrong

Finally, in May of 1945 came the victory. Though The Davidsonian staff was hit hard by the general exodus of students, it still managed to struggle through.