- Features The Davidsonian | Wednesday, September 13, 1989

Freshman 15: are those pounds “fat or fiction?”
By LIZ DAVIDSON

We’ve all heard the horror stories about freshman life at college: the hellish all-nighters, the roommate conflicts, the calls home
for money. However, the worst nightmare of all is the dreaded “Freshman 15.” This phenomenon has been widely debated, but
the truth concerning it lies somewhere between fat and fiction. The weight gain is not a prophecy for all, but
it is a concern for many.

What have Davidson freshmen been saying about the freshman 15? “I’ve gained five pounds since I’ve been here,” claimed one
female. “Freshman 15? It’s more like the freshman 50!” another quipped. Others, however, are less pessimistic. Terrica Gibson, another new
Davidson female, remains unworried, but careful. “I probably will gain weight, but not too much. I plan to exercise a
lot and eat good foods. The one thing that gets me, though, is the junk food.” Other freshmen listed chips,
candy bars, and cookie dough (2400 calories per package) among the most dangerous junk foods.

For the freshman males, the concern is different, but just as predominant. “The girls eat, and the boys drink...the beer
bellies in Belk are already growing,” one student commented. Several sophomores talked about their summer of starvation to lose weight
they gained freshman year. Some are even lifting weights in an effort to gain muscle and lose fat. “I don’t
know why I gained 20 pounds,” one sophomore commented. Obviously, last year’s freshmen ate too much, drank too much beer,
and didn’t exercise enough.

What causes freshmen to do this? The answers came from freshmen themselves. These answers ranged from “I can’t study when
I don’t eat,” to “the freshman 15 is predestined. It’s just a time, biologically, when your body needs to be
nourished.” Another freshman noted that “Mom is not here to tell me not to eat junk food.” The most creative
response was, “The candy machine looks sad when no one uses it.” But then, that isn’t too often.

The solution? Freshman Dair Brown offered some good suggestions. “I think the key is to get interested in something, so
you don’t sit around. It’s also good to eat meals in the Commons, rather than the dorm. Oh, and it
helps to exercise,” she said, clad in her runner’s gear, as the rest of the group sat around—you guessed it—eating.

Artwork by Suzanne Craymer

Rusk Scholar views Davidson as “intriguing and intense”
By ADAM SMITH

I arrived nervous and extremely apprehensive at an airport with a severe lack of signs. I felt that I was
little more than another “run of the mill” college boy with unlatched suitcases and a stereo whose speakers were collapsing.
Completely unaccustomed to my surroundings, I gritted my teeth and cooled my heels. Yet the next time that I glanced
at my watch, I became a passenger of the friendliest of Davidson sophomores, who had kindly agreed to assist in
the transportation of the arriving internationals to their new environment. It was Matt Gantt, who answered the array of questions
that I put forth, and not once in the short ride did he make me feel out of place—something which
I greatly feared. For that, I am very thankful.

It is true to say that the first people that one meets at the start of four months in a
different culture are very special. Although some names still elude me as I pass people I know I’ve already met,
most names have stuck, and if not, the amicable “all-American” smile certainly has. “Superficial” and “shallow” were the warnings given
to me about Americans—something that I passed off on my first day. A simple glance, a raising of the eyebrows
or even aHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

“How’s it going?” makes Davidson College a place that cares. With a campus as beautiful as the best the British
could offer, and the personal touch of a community-oriented college, Davidson is an almost ideal place to enjoy. While I
might not have the mysterious Mediterranean touch which the French, and most notably the smooth, sophisticated Spanish have, I have
become aware that many here are genuinely interested in having a “Brit” in the community. I feel that there is
always a place to be—where is of minor importance, just so long as I can mix with a wide variety
of you and enjoy four months of life in a society which few of us are fortunate enough to be
involved in. I hope and know that the remainder of my time at Davidson will prove to be as intriguing
and intense, with an open-minded president, a mixture of internationals and true home-bred Yanks. I am already dreading my day
of departure.

For now, though, it’s back to cooking bacon and eggs and finding the best English ale, of which I hope
you will all partake when the International Festival comes ‘round on September 16th. See you then!

Student Un-

Presidential profile

BY HILARY COMAN

To be sure, everyone here at Davidson has responsibilities. Such responsibilities often cause us much heartache at 4 a.m. as
we study for that important quiz or review. However, there are some people here who do just a little bit
more by giving up their time for Davidson students. One such person is William Brewer, president of the senior class.

Perhaps the mention of the word “president” conjures up images of a person who sits around all day and sends
memos. However, when applied to Brewer, this stereotype is far from true. Because Brewer is president of the senior class,
he is automatically a member of the Senate Executive Committee. This group consists of the Senior Class President and both
the SGA president and vice-president. Their focus comes from the direction of the Senate.

Brewer also works for the Alumni Office and Alumni Association. By working with these two groups, he feels he has
gained some insight in regard to his job as president. “Here [at Davidson], you tend to identify with a campus
group—not particularly your class,” he said. Brewer feels that this poses a potential problem because the Alumni Office views students
simply as members of their Davidson class.

To help alleviate the possible awkwardness of a situation like this, Brewer states, “I want to increase unity within the
senior class. Some suggestions we have are a senior reception at Homecoming, Senior Night at basketball games and possibly Senior
Night in the 900 Room. However, we’re open to any and all ideas for events for the senior class. There
is always more that can be done.”

Another responsibility that comes along with the office of presidency is the choice of a senior class gift. The process
is fairly involved. Brewer must choose two gift chairmen to aid him, and then the three choose a 12 to
15 person committee. The gift is a five-year commitment, chosen by class vote after the committee has sifted through all
possible ideas. As of now, Brewer has no idea of what gift this year’s class is considering giving.

Overall, Brewer is kept busy by his various responsibilities as well as the usual Davidson load. However, he sounds thoroughly
satisfied. “I really enjoy working with members of my class and with the faculty and administration on issues that affect
the students. I wouldn’t do it if I didn’t like being involved.”

Senior class president William Brewer: "I wouldn't do it if I didn't like being involved."
Photo by Carl Van Osdall

---
