Monday, April 24, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vogue fashion trends present at Davidson  
By HEATH HARDAGE

Vogue, the international fashion Bible of couture-watchers, has proclaimed SPRING ‘89 the season of the “fit body.” Other watchwords on trends in the garment industry include “bareness,” “emphasis on the leg,” and “athletic styling.” However, an anonymous Davidson man gave a simpler definition of what he had noticed in the new Spring looks: “low-cut dresses, skin, boobs!”

Other trends cited by Vogue were the dominance of Latin and Cuban themes in clothing, which are complemented by ethnic jewelry. Trench coats, from the classic khaki to shocking yellow silk, are a fashion staple for blustery April weather. Chiffon scarves, wrapped around the head ala Audrey Hepburn, are prevalent. Fake pearls are showing up on everything, due in part to Barbara Bush’s influence.

Bad news for those who acquired a savage tan on Spring Break: tans are out! Vogue declared in the April issue that “a tan has become recognized as a symptom of sun damage.” Most students at Davidson do not seem to subscribe to this theory, says the same anonymous Davidson sophomore: “everybody wears shorts now. It’s like sport your tan...people always wear white after vacation.” He also notes that Davidson in the spring is a “sneakers and t-shirt place.” Fashion is “probably not that important” at Davidson, he says.

Chris Fiore, a Davidson sophomore, has worked for the sportswear company, Adrienne Vittadini, as a market analyst. He has spotted the “Happy Days” look around campus: i.e. jeans, t-shirts, and white bucks. “Wide ties are back more this spring,” and “watches are the big thing,” he says. Based on his experience at Vittadini, he has noticed that “There’s a big move in fashion companies to do a franchise on accessories.”

Will Pender, a Davidson freshman, questioned this reporter as to why he had been approached about his opinion on spring fashions: “Why are you asking me about spring fashion? Look at how I’m dressed!” He finally deigned to offer his appraisal of the new trends: “Plaid is making a spring statement,” he proclaimed. “Personally, I think girls ought to wear bell-bottoms!”

Freshman Hilary Coman said, “I love the nautical looks this spring...they’re so cute and perky! They really get me in the mood for summer!” Elizabeth Howe, a resident of 4th Rich, noted that “on my hall, everyone wears a lot of Laura Ashley.” Lauren Follmer of 1st Rich has noticed that “There’s a group who always wears t-shirts and shorts, and a group that wears cotton dresses.” B’easy Helms, also of 1st Rich, said that “Sometimes I hate the spring because I always have to shave my legs.”

Freshwoman Jenny Usherwood has decided that “There is no spring fashion [at Davidson]. Everyone wears what they want.” An anonymous Richardson freshwoman expressed more concern about spring fashion: “I buy all my clothes in the boutiques in Charleston. I’d never buy anything in North Carolina!”

FUTURE DOCS, from page 5  
Although Williamson believed it was possible for those with under a 3.0 GPA to...get into a medical school, he said it would be “very unlikely and improbable.” “The number of people seeking to go to med school is dramatically down,” he also noted, saying that there are now only 1.7 applicants for each seat as opposed to earlier application statistics closer to 3.7 per seat. He added that Davidson premed acceptance rates have generally been between 75 and 80 percent for the past 20 years for first-time applicants to medical school. There are course requirements for the premed major which are weighed equally with overall grades and test scores. Appropriate courses in biology, chemistry, mathematics, and physics must be taken. “Historically, medical students have been science majors,” Williamson said. In fact, Davidson offered a premedical major until the current school year. A slim majority of senior Davidson premeds are nonscience majors. The classroom is not the only site of learning for premeds. “One thing that is critical is to obtain experience in a medical setting,” stated Williamson. With the high GPAs and other forms of achievement expected of premeds, a casual approach to school is not the rule. “It’s very important to map out your schedule,” warned Nagendren. “It’s cut into my social life,” Warlick noted, “especially this year because of the higher levels of classes required of premed students.” “You need to make sacrifices,” Gillespie said. “It’s very tough. You wouldn’t be a premed if you weren’t going to make the sacrifice.” But he added, “You don’t have to be stressful about it.” He suggested reading, exercising, and allocating personal time as useful techniques for combating mental fatigue. “You do need time to get away,” he stressed. “Everybody has to work hard at Davidson,” Srinivasan argued, citing those intending to go to law or management school as being under similar stresses. Besides the workload, another potential drawback to those considering medical school is money. “A premed student must consider long before acceptance into medical school how he or she will pay for it,” Williamson emphasized. For those uncertain about their own medical school plans, advice abounds at Davidson. “Number one, and most importantly: they should get medical experience—either in a hospital or in a clinic or with a physician, in his practice for example,” said biology professor Verna Case. “I think that they should familiarize themselves with the medical schools in their home state—visit the medical schools and talk to medical students.” “My best advice would be to take the premedical classes early so that if you’re unsure [about majors], you'll always have the option of medical school,” she concluded.