New staff announced! page 11

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 22

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, April 14, 1989

Basketball coach Hussey resigns

Cites “philosophical differences” with Athletics Director Morris

By THOMAS H. MOORE

Davidson College President John Kuykendall announced today that basketball head coach Bobby Hussey has resigned from employment with the college
effective immediately.

A press release announcing the resignation listed several reasons for Hussey’s resignation: “(i) philosophical differences between the Athletic Director of
the College and him concerning the direction of the athletic program of the College, (ii) the current lack of conference
affiliation, (iii) reclassification of the football program to the NCAA Division III level, and (iv) his fear that basketball might
be reclassified.”

Hussey coached the Wildcats to a 108-127 record over eight seasons, with back-to-back 20-win seasons in 1986 and 1987. The
1986 team won the Southern Conference tournament and went to the NCAA playoffs. Most recently, the 1989 team finished with
a 7-24 record.

Hussey issued the following statement: “I’m especially thankful and appreciative to the Davidson alumni and the many fans that have
supported me in my efforts at Davidson. It has been a real pleasure to be associated with the many honorable
people that represent a great institution. They are my friends, and I will always treasure those friendships.

“It would be remiss not to mention the great support given to our program by the Davidson student body. I
will always remember their enthusiasm in Johnston Gym.

“I also want to thank the area media for the fine job they have done in promoting our program.”

See HUSSEY, page 4

Head basketball coach Bobby Hussey.

By MUADI MUKENGE and JENNIFER HOFFMAN

Head basketball coach Bobby Hussey’s resignation today evoked a variety of opinions from members of the team. Most said they
were not surprised by the decision and felt that a major change in the program was imminent.

Junior Edward “Magic” Gaines feels that Hussey’s departure is something which “almost had to happen.” “He [Hussey] had established that
Davidson could compete against top competition,” he commented. “He’s picked up the program and it’s time for the program to
go to the next level. He did a good job while he was here.”

Junior Jeff Harris also felt that a change of some sort would occur. “There was too much speculation [for nothing
to happen],” he said.

Since Hussey’s replacement is yet undetermined, Harris is unsure as to whether or not the change will have a positive
effect on the team. “I can only hope that it’s going to be a positive change,” he commented.

For some, however, yesterday’s news of Hussey’s resignation came as something of a surprise. Freshman Sterling...

See PLAYERS, page 2

“Agamemnon” players garner rave reviews, cleaning costs

By LISA GERRARD

The spirit of Dionysus, the Greek god of wine, was in the air last Tuesday night as the Greek Players
from London’s University College completed a successful three-week tour with a performance on the Davidson stage. At a party after
the show, several Davidson students were delighted with Welsh drinking songs and lively dances by the merry crew, who were
celebrating their last night of touring in the United States.

The Greek Players performed at Yale, Rutgers, Columbia, and other universities before coming to Davidson, where their rendition of Agamemnon
was well-received. Close to 500 people attended the event, said classics professor Steven Lonsdale.

The classics department coordinated a “Festival of Dionysus” around the troupe’s visit. The festivities began Monday with a slide lecture,
a workshop performance of Euripides’ Medea, and a gourmet Roman banquet.

During the party at Carnegie Guest House after the Agamemnon performance, resident advisor Dave Rochford received a call about the
noise the group was making.

See DIONYSUS, page 2

WALT radio (580 AM) hit the air at 3 p.m. Wednesday with Dave Tiegh at the helm.

Photo by Alex...
