Wednesday, October 11, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

“It is beneficial for students to take advantage of the testing opportunities as early as freshman year,” says Carol Jordan, the new director of the careers office.  
Photo by Robert Marshall

Ease senior anxiety with a trip to the Careers Office  
BY ELIZABETH HOWE

Lurking in the back of most Davidson students’ minds is a troubling question—“What am I going to do when I finally graduate from this place?” The anxiety resulting from this question is perhaps most burdensome for seniors, but it affects freshmen, sophomores, and juniors as well. In the search to resolve this problem, a good place to start is the Careers Office, located on the lower level of the College Union.

According to Carol Jordan, director of the Careers Office, her staff focuses its efforts on three main areas to help students make vocational choices—testing, career planning, and placement. The written tests that the office administers include the Strong-Campbell and Myers-Briggs tests, which are designed to provide students with information about their personalities and their career interests. Testing is also the function of the computer program known as SIGI-Plus. Its purpose is to determine a student's “career interests based on his or her values,” Jordan explained. The results provide “hard evidence” of the role values will play in the selection of a career.

To further aid in career planning, the Careers Office has its own library consisting of books on such varied topics as resume writing, job and internship hunting, interviewing, and securing virtually any type of job, whether it be service-oriented or for profit, in America or abroad. In this library is also located what Jordan refers to as the “jewel” of the Careers Office—a print-out of the Alumni Network. This network is made up of over 500 Davidson graduates who have volunteered to help the Careers Office. Current students can look up their city and locate the names of alumni to whom they can write concerning employment opportunities.

For those Davidson students interested in attending graduate school...

STONES, from left page

...Always Get What You Want,” “Gimme Shelter” and “Sympathy for the Devil.” The choice of songs represented very well the different phases of the Stones' career. It included the psychedelically-influenced numbers like “Paint it Black” and “2000 Light Years From Home,” and paid tribute to their blues influences with “Midnight Rambler” and a cover of the blues standard “The Little Red Rooster.” There was even a nod to country with “Dead Flowers.”

The band played almost continuously for close to two-and-a-half hours, taking only one short break near the end, though Jagger left the stage for a while to let Richards sing on “Before They Make Me Run” and “Happy.” After the break, they came back to really get the crowd going with “Jumpin’ Jack Flash” and “Satisfaction.” A fireworks display followed, allowing the band to get out of the parking lot while everyone was staring at the sky. Throughout...the concert the band members seemed to be enjoying themselves and really putting their hearts into playing. Although this may not be the Stones’ finest hour, they proved they can still play and still are rock n’ roll.

It's a pretty powerful concept for a movie. As the plot twists, we are led to the lies that unfold and the lies that are revealed. My biggest complaint is that although it does very well with raising questions, it fares very poorly in answering them. It often chooses to answer questions simply, and at the expense of depth.

Imagine the thrill of flying a jet aircraft! Air Force ROTC offers you leadership training and an excellent start to a career as an Air Force pilot. If you have what it takes, check out Air Force ROTC today. CAPT CARL WILSON

For those considering graduate school (this applies to a majority of the student body), the Careers Office has a printout of alumni presently pursuing graduate study. These printouts are updated twice each semester. In addition, there is a library of books on graduate schools and sources of financial assistance. One of the main responsibilities of the Careers Office is to administer the LSAT, MCAT, GRE, and GMAT. Counseling for test-taking is also provided.

While much of the Careers Office staff's time is allotted to helping seniors, there are a multitude of activities targeted at freshmen, sophomores, and juniors. According to Jordan, “It is beneficial for students to take advantage of the testing opportunities as early as freshman year,” so as to help students attain a sense of direction for their college experience. Jordan recommends becoming involved in college activities “as soon as possible,” adding that not only will this help students develop themselves and their interests, but it will also begin to fortify their resumes, which becomes increasingly important as students approach graduation.

Sophomores are encouraged to explore the resources of the Careers Office in their quest to determine a major as well as to secure an internship if desired. In the junior year, the Careers Office becomes more “action-oriented,” stated Jordan, as its staff seeks to help juniors narrow down their career interests. Finally, for those about to graduate, senior seminars and workshops are offered, recruiters come to the campus, and seniors begin to see the proverbial light at the end of the tunnel. An appointment with the office staff will hopefully dispel some of that anxiety which all students experience as they realize that there is indeed life after Davidson.

BIG, from left page

While Patterson Court may hold a place for everyone, it can become a part of daily life for others. House members will become best friends and relationships will become long-lasting. It really appears as if it will be a great four years at Davidson with road trips, hurricane survival tactics, friends, and at the heartbeat of it all, Patterson Court.