Commentaries

Installing condom machines: Is it moral?

Bill Wilson

Upon reading the many articles over the past several weeks on the issue of condoms, I cannot help but add
an additional viewpoint. I feel that one of the key issues is the morality of installing condom machines in the
dormitory bathrooms (or anywhere for that matter). Looking at Davidson’s Statement of Purpose, I learn that “Davidson sees Jesus Christ
as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life.” Using this statement as a
point of departure, I feel that it is important for the college to come up with a “Christian” decision, which
of course could only be arrived at through examining what Jesus Christ Himself would say about the situation. Unfortunately, Christ
never tells us “Thou shalt/shalt not use condoms,” but we can infer from other statements what His response might be.
Could anybody honestly say upon reading the Bible that Christ would bid us make condoms available so that we can
safely engage in pre-marital sex? Remember, we are talking about a man who tells us that “anyone who looks at
a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart” (Matthew 5:28). If we read on, we discover
that it is “better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to go
into hell” (Matt. 5:30). So would Jesus encourage us to cover up a part of our body in order to
protect ourselves from the consequences of pre-marital sex? Quite the contrary! He obviously would rather us cut that part of
our body off. Perhaps Jesus does not mean this phrase literally, but I think that we get the gist of
His message. I am not urging every male on this campus to seek out castration, but I am pointing out
what I feel Christ would say to us today. I also believe that Christ cares deeply for us. He does
not intend to restrict us with rules, but offers us guidelines which will only make our lives better! But why
should we listen to Christ anyway? Well, I am looking at what Christ would say because of the Davidson Statement
of Purpose, which declares Him “as the source of all truth.” Please do not feel that I am condemning those
who engage in pre-marital sex, because I do not have any right to do so. But I am attempting to
form a logical argument based on the premise of Davidson’s Statement of Purpose. Therefore I conclude that either the college
should base its decision on what Christ Himself would say, or it should significantly alter its Statement of Purpose. I
can understand and accept whatever decision the college makes, but I find hypocrisy a much more difficult issue to tolerate.

Bill Wilson is a potential math major from Greenville, S.C.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to
the following guidelines:

- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.
- All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
- Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
- The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which
represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following
information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).

Pam Kelley made famous this week

Mon., Wed., Sat. 10-2

Tues. and Thurs. 10-4.

Call 892-7952

Hwy. 115

1.5 Miles North of Davidson
