“Monday, February 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rasslin’

Lack of depth hurts Davidson at tournaments

By HOLME OLTROGGE

Wrestling captain Joe Binns led the team in the Washington & Lee and the Mid-South tournaments over the past two
weekends. In the W&L Invitational January 20 and 21, sophomore Binns lost the first match but won the next three
handily to place third. But when asked about his accomplishments, he calmly waved off the question and simply stated that
he needed to lift and run a lot more.

Player profile: wrestler Joe Binns

By HOLME OLTROGGE

Joe Binns ’91

Wrestling

English or political science major
5' 10"
157 lbs (off season)

Binns started wrestling in ninth grade at Brookstone High School in Columbus, Ga. In four years he became a state
champion with a 25-1 overall record. Currently the captain of the Davidson team, he is the wrestler with the most
collegiate wrestling experience. At the January 20-21 Washington & Lee Invitational, Binns placed third, claiming credit to 14 of the
18 team takedowns at that meet.

What made you wrestle in high school?

I made varsity as a freshman (in high school) since I was the only one who could get down to
98 (pounds). I won the first match but was pounded in the rest. I was one (win) and ten (losses).
You just couldn’t quit after that.

You appear to be a natural wrestler.

No. I’m not that strong, so I have to lift. I also have to run a lot.

How has wrestling affected your academics?

It hasn’t. The daily practices and the weekend trips take time, but I make it up.

At the W&L tournament, you had 14 out of 18 takedowns.

I wrestle best on my feet. That’s just my style.

What is your favorite course at Davidson?

Music 101 with Swisher. He’s gotta be one of the best professors here.

What are your hobbies?

I like music. All music. I also like to waterski.

Whom do you most admire?

Robert E. Lee. No really, it’s gotta be John Updike. Also, I admire winners from schools like Davidson that don’t
give scholarships.

What is your favorite movie?

“Clockwork Orange.” I read the book, but the movie still beats it.

Who is your girlfriend?

I think I had better not say that...

How about a quote that you live by?

See JOE’S QUOTE, page 9

Peter Buss (142 pounds), Andy Cook (167), Thomas Lane (190), and Eric Farmer (Heavyweight) did not fare as well. All
lost both matches of the double elimination tournament. Buss was pinned by a York wrestler who eventually became the MVP
of the tournament.

The fourth Davidson victory was provided by freshman Chris Clark (167), who went 1-2 for the weekend.

Applications available now in the Residence Life Office; deadline for applications is March 9. Interviews are from March 13 -
17.

WE’RE LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD MEN

There are several Resident Advisor positions available next year. This is an excellent opportunity for you to serve your fellow
students and to develop skills in leadership, organization, interpersonal relations, crisis intervention, conflict management, programming, and administration. Ask your R.A.
for details.

The Mid-South Tournament on January 27 and 28 proved a bit more disheartening. The team returned from Jefferson City, Tenn.
with only one team win.

The win again came from Binns who wrestled two weight classes up from 134 pounds in the Washington and Lee
tournament to 150 at the Mid-South tournament. He also lost a 0-1 match in overtime.

The team took only four wrestlers to the Mid-South meet. In addition to Binns, the team consisted of junior Pete
Buss (142), freshman Chris Clark (167), and sophomore Eric Farmer (Heavyweight).

Freshman Craig Wall joined the Wildcats lineup last Tuesday for the first time since December 3. He had been out
due to a badly sprained ankle in the Davidson Invitational.

For the duration of the season, the Cats will focus on gaining experience. “We will concentrate on instructions and fun
for the rest of the meets,” said head coach Tom Oddo.

The dual last Saturday against Ferrum was cancelled, eliminating the squad’s last home match. The team will spend the rest
of the season on the road in dual matches against Wilkes Community College, Georgia Tech, Gardner-Webb, and Furman.

The team will conclude the season at the Eastern Regionals in March.

A Post-Olympic Event

TOOT, from page 11

changed.

ics.

its sense as a male-only institution, citing the football program’s relegation to Division III as his prime example.

I doubt seriously that Davidson is “going all female.” Davidson may be considerably different today than it was in the
1950s and 1960s. But, then again, so is the world.

Traditionalism is not always a bad thing, but when it causes such gross discrepancies in treatment of individuals, it must
be condemned and the situation must be changed.

Despite the belief that Davidson is “exceptional,” the college must shirk its traditional image in the case of women’s athletics.

Davidson’s continued policies could be disastrous for the college if the characteristic Davidson lethargy prevents the administration from acting quickly.

Why, you ask? It seems that silly old judicial system ruled that institutions must give proportionate amounts in their budgets
to women’s sports. That is, the amount of money spent per woman athlete must equal the amount of money spent
per male athlete.

This is the infamous Title IX of the US Civil Rights Act.

Now, if Davidson does not begin to act quickly on its athletic budget, an ugly lawsuit will probably arise.

After all, if I were a woman athlete or coach at Davidson, I would have thought long ago about suing
the college for discrimination. It looks like an open-and-shut case, but then again I guess I am not looking at
the “unique” nature of Davidson.

Of course, neither will the courts.
