Wednesday, September 13, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

I’m an alien from West Germany, not Mars  
Maja Berlin  

Hallo! My name is Maja and I am a legal alien. To all of you Star Wars fans out there, I have to admit shamefully that I do not come from Mars, but rather from a place which might seem equally strange and faraway to you -- West Germany. In this article, I’d like to share with you some of the experiences I have had here at Davidson.

When I learned that I had been accepted at Davidson College, I was very excited. I really looked forward to coming here and meeting many interesting and diverse people. The thought of studying subjects I had not had the opportunity to study before and of living “on my own” exhilarated me. But, on the other hand, I have to (embarrassedly) admit that the thought of going away from home, from the surroundings which I loved, and the people I felt comfortable with, did scare me. This feeling I am sure I shared with many of the freshmen. The thought of living in a foreign country, speaking and studying in a foreign language, and being in a culture somewhat different from my own, also presented major concerns for me.

I arrived in Davidson on August 16th, for an orientation for international students. I immediately felt at home by the friendly welcome of my host family and everyone I met at Davidson. As a part of this orientation, we watched a video on culture shock made by international students of Boston University called “Cold Water.” It told the “fates” of several poor international students who said that they had spent their first four months of college crying, sobbing, and feeling completely lonely. At the end of this 45-minute ordeal, I looked at my fellow international companions and for the first time felt truly worried about my happiness in the U.S. Judging by the stricken look on their faces, they felt the same. What was to become of us? Would we, too, have to face four long months of depression?

Writing this article now two weeks after watching that video, I think I can most definitely say “No!” During my stay at Davidson, I have never felt lonely, depressed, or like crying. On the contrary, I have been feeling very happy. In fact, I’m finding Davidson to be just about the friendliest place I have ever been to. (Maybe those other international students should have come to Davidson instead of B.U.). The people I have met, whether they are in my dorm, in my classes, or from a “hall mixer,” have been incredibly friendly and open. I know that the other international students feel the same way.

A lasting memory for me will be something Sonja, a one-year student from Germany, experienced and told me about. One day she was playing frisbee with some friends when the college president, John Kuykendall, walked by. He took the frisbee and they played together for a while. At a German University, this would be unthinkable but here it seems quite natural. This, to me, really exemplifies the friendly, open atmosphere of the Davidson campus. And for this, I would really like to thank you.

It has been as much fun for me to learn who the Brady Bunch is and what certain slang words mean as teaching several of my new friends German words and sharing gummibears. I have also learned many things about other countries such as Spain, France, India, and England from the other international students. If you want to talk to a person who comes from one of these countries, a great time to not only meet internationals but also try their foods and experience some of their customs firsthand is the upcoming International Festival on September 16! You've let us share your culture with us, so please let us try to give you a little feeling of ours! I hope I'll see you there!

Maja Berlin is an exchange student from West Germany.

---

It's Through Competition That The Quality of Our Service Is Enhanced.  
CHARTER NATIONAL  
Member FDIC  
Davidson Office: 892-4644  
Cornelius Office: 892-3233  
Huntersville Office: 875-3400  
Offices in Cabarrus & Rowan Counties: 786-330011 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Gary Wheeler, News Editor
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor

Work and study

For those Davidson students who participate in the college work-study program, the recent adoption of a pay scale based on skill and experience is a welcome change. The college is finally recognizing the fact that all jobs do not require equal skill, something other campuses did long ago. The purpose of work-study is for needy students to earn a portion of the money needed to pay educational expenses. The key word is earn. Since both the amount of labor and the intellectual demands of assignments vary, the practice of paying all students the same salary did not respect this concept. It is disheartening for those who truly labor to see others completing homework assignments during work hours. Everyone has a busy schedule, but those who are busier would surely appreciate study time.

The new system divides jobs into three categories: Grade I, beginning at $3.35/hour, requires neither a lot of skill nor supervision; Grade II, beginning at $3.65/hour, requires a certain level of knowledge and skill; Grade III jobs require prior experience and a large amount of responsibility. They pay $4/hour—only the Union weekend manager, the 900 Room manager, and the weekend library supervisor are included in this category. Also integral to the new system is an incentive component. Students will be paid an additional 20 cents per hour for every year they remain at a particular assignment.

One of the results of this new system will be greater competition for certain jobs. At the same time, less-paying jobs will have to be delegated to disgruntled students. One would automatically assume that a larger base salary means more money. The contrary is true because all students have an earnings ceiling. Someone needing $1500 will still earn that much in a given year regardless of job level. The change comes in the number of hours worked. As a result of this new system, work-study students will not have to work as many hours as previously needed to earn a certain salary. This year will serve as a testing period for the new work-study program, but it is guaranteed that this time students will truly be working and studying as well. Way to go Davidson!

—m.m.

Stephenson, Spider Wormuth.

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Unsigned editorials are the responsibility of the Editors. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Assistant News Editor: Suzanne Craymer.
Assistant Features Editor: Trent Stevens.
Assistant Opinions Editor: Ingrid Page.

News Staff: Beth Brown, Peter Bynum, Margaret Carroll, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Gates Grainger, Lisa Jackson, Delia Johnson, Tom Koonce, George Lafaye, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Joe Mavis, Walter Price, Mary Russ, Rafael Sanchez-Aballi, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Jennifer Sieck, Taylor Smith, William Urban, Susannah Wellford, Jennifer Whittington, Clay Wright, Molly Young.

Features Staff: Curt Bickers, Lee Bushkell, David Coarsey, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Liz Davidson, John Earles, Matt Goad, Elizabeth Howe, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Phil Prescott, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Jennifer Sieck, Anjali Sharma, Adam Smith, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Luise Weinrich, Jennifer Whittington.

Sports Staff: Bruce Balestier, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Jiggy Maxwell, Mary Faith Mount, Carter Payne, Tracy-Lynn Perez, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd.

Photography Staff: Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Nancy Green, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Jane Mount, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Reese Boyd, J.W. Mullis.

Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland Smith.