Monday, February 20, 1989. THE DAVIDSONIAN IMACtion 17

Basketball action rolls on

LARRY SLEDGE

Even though The Davidsonian opted to take last week off, IMACtion rolled on. Monday, February 6, marked the beginning of
the 1989 IMAC Basketball Tournament and based on the records of the qualifying teams, the level of play was sure
to be intense. Of the teams selected by the IMAC council for this year’s B-league tournament, only one team had
fewer than four victories (3). Third East’s Ragin’ Horsemen squared off against Simple Colated-Guts 39-26. P.D.T.’s Dave Dalrymple turned in
a 25-point game, but #2 Gladheator Often proved to be too much, advancing to the next round with a 50-43
win.

As round one started for the women, three games needed to be played. In the first, Kacey Cochran exploded with
18 second-half points to lead the Nice Girls to a 35-14 shellacking of the Wild, Wild 4th. The Old Women
flogged Brant’s Beauties 25-13 and in the final game, Perrin scored eight points as the Wild Thangs stamped out the
Roaches 22-17.

A-league action kicked off with the Inebriates bombing Hoss 52-32. Steve Lilly scored 22 for the victors. Stone Bynum also
had 22 as the Old Men sneaked past Goo 46-42. Matt O’Connor poured in 22 points as the Greek Wannabe’s
survived a late rally from Phi Delt’s Connie, and left with a 52-51 victory. In the final first-round game, Charlie
Slage scored 18 points to lead the Gym Rats past the Teabaggers 60-59. However, the Gym Rats were forced to
forfeit when the Teabaggers protested the use of an ineligible player, eliminating the Gym Rats from the tournament.

In second-round action, Mikio Aoki and Tim Weaver had eight points each as the Undefeated Defending Champs edged the Swishing
Gerbil Pack 35-34. The B.M.F.’s trounced the Bishops 51-35 behind Dave Trontz’s 34 points. Jerry’s Kids shelled Gladheator Often 52-38.
Ben Hooker had 18 points to pace Simple Columnar Hoops to a 56-45 victory over Caroline’s Dream. The Dream returned
the following night in losers bracket action, and barely stayed alive in the tournament, having to go to three overtime
periods to defeat the Swishing Gerbil Pack 64-58. Gladheator Often rebounded from their loss also, pounding the Bishops 63-46. In
the two remaining games, the winner’s bracket finale was set as the Undefeated Defending Champs beat Simple Columnar Hoops 24-20
and the B.M.F.’s got by Jerry’s Kids 38-36 in double overtime.

In Monday’s first match-up, Ben Hooker’s eight points were tops as he led the Hoops to a 30-24 upset victory
over the 4th ranked Horsemen. The #1 ranked Undefeated Defending Champs got 20 points from Chris Woods as they squeaked
by the M.U.T.S. 34-28. Mike Maggart scored 20 points as the Swishing Gerbil Pack edged the Moon Dogs 37-33. Caroline’s
Dream (#5) blasted the Mantools 57-35 behind Kevin Burn’s 22 points. The third-seeded B.M.F.’s came back from a halftime deficit
to beat Shoney’s Breakfast Bar 26-23.

Bert Giles Pre-Season champs, the Wolfpack, opened second-round A-league action.With a 54-48 drumming of the Old Men, Brant Oelschlager produced
13 points for the pack. Tim Kerns scored 35 points as N.U.B.Z. annihilated the Teabaggers 81-59. Delta Force drilled the
Greek-Wanna-be’s 59-47. The Really Nice Guys edged the Inebriates 54-51. The Nice Guys continued their winning ways as A.J. Morgan’s
28 points led them past the Wolfpack 53-48. In another tense game, N.U.B.Z. slipped by Delta Force and Steve Neff
led all scorers with eight each. The Bishops beat pre-season champs B.T.B. and T.T.W. 42-36. Jerry’s Kids muti- More from
Larry’s: World O’ IMAC Diese ieee Be ee 44-42. Delta Force came back, however, and topped the Inebriates 53-47. Mike
Friedlander scored 18 points as the Wolfpack 53-41, wrapping up action through Tuesday.

Team handball preview: you run, you jump, you throw
By LARRY SLEDGE

Spring-time is coming and the advent of a new phenomenon is upon us. Intramural Team Handball comes to Davidson. That’s
right! You've seen it in the Olympics, now play it here. Team Handball is an exciting fast-paced game which combines
the skills of running, jumping, and throwing. The sport is relatively new, dating back to the turn of the century.
During that short time, it has become the world’s second most popular sport, behind only soccer. The United States has
constantly been drubbed in the Olympic Team Handball competition, ever since its inclusion in the games in 1972. But according
to the U.S. Team Handball Federation, the growing popularity of the sport in the U.S. will soon change that.

Allied Health Professionals

The Air Force can make you an offer — out- pe ahh ahatt ion plus professional oclorr ink! ste! nl
Dae festa chalet practice and time Va your soothe ald ae, r country. n r Force offers. Call TSGT WILL
WILBURN 704-377-1812 STATION-TO-STATION COLLECT

The sport has been compared to a number of other team sports. It resembles basketball, water polo, ice hockey, and
indoor soccer. Many facets of each of the sports are incorporated in Team Handball. But the best way to understand
the game is to watch it being played. The first game of Team Handball at Davidson will be an exhibition.
Appalachian State University has played the sport at the intramural level for ten years. IMAC has made an agreement for
a home-and-away series with the Appalachian State Team Handball all-stars. Davidson’s team will include aspiring Olympic handballer Mike Friedlander, lacrosse
great Dave Becker, equipment manager Dangerous Dan Morphis, and many other top stars.

The team will be coached by Vic Gatto, who has hinted that he may suit up and try to make
a comeback (he was a prep-school team handball sensation). The game will take place immediately after a team handball clinic,
put on by the Appalachian State team. The festivities begin at 6:30 on Thursday, February 23 in Johnston Gym. Be
there, and catch the action!

Earn money, fame, and another item to add to your resume. Join The Davidsonian’s ADVERTISING: Contact Hutch “John” Hutchinson (-6110)
or Scooter “Bill” “P.O.” Scouten (-6078) for more information!
