Wednesday, November 8, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Criticism for Puckett

Dear Mark Puckett,

In good health reporter: I am extremely glad that you were able to find an appropriate medium to tell the entire campus how cool you are for running a marathon. My only question is, do you really think anyone cares? It is obvious that you work out not for personal satisfaction but for the attention of others, since you are so outspokenly arrogant about your accomplishments—pride takes on a touch of humility. Have you ever noticed that you are the only one in the weight room who never wears a shirt? All of this is unfortunate, since instead of everyone saying, “Hey, there’s Mark. Look what great shape he is in,” people are saying, “Hey, there’s Mark. What an #$%@.”

Have you ever been overweight? I can assure you from experience that your few words of sarcastic advice, tainted with the notion of overweight people’s inferiority, are no substitute for support and encouragement. Those who are attempting to lose weight and those who have lost the weight have gained a personal satisfaction much greater than being patted on the back by the entire campus for running a marathon. I wish you luck in your search for attention. It must be lonely at the top.

In shape with no intention of running a marathon

Puckett draws more punches

Dear Editors:

I have been following with some amusement over the last several weeks the continuing saga of fitness writer Mark Puckett’s battles with the “physically complacent” contingency he seems to find so prevalent among our classmates. Now he decides it is necessary to run a marathon in order to prove his point that exercise is essential to one’s physical and mental well-being. On this point I cannot disagree with Mr. Puckett; anyone who can run 26 miles has my admiration, for I certainly could not do so.

I strongly feel that Mr. Puckett needs to dramatically alter the course and content of his column “Health.” It is clear that he has decided to use this forum as a means by which to bolster his own ego while at the same time make snide remarks directed toward those who find his column, well, egotistical. Please don’t get me wrong, Mr. Puckett, for I feel that some of your past columns contained some useful information. But it is here that the present problem lies. There is a great need for an informative column about physical fitness for the general Davidson community. You do not need to take on such a condescending attitude toward your readers; I have found your last several articles to be insulting, to say the very least.

I urge you to approach your column with a more open attitude to the needs of those to whom the column is directed—namely, those of us who desire to make a conscious effort to improve their physical and mental well-being through regular exercise and proper diet. Just keep in mind that most of us run three or four miles every couple of days. Marathons are out of the reach of most enthusiasts, to be sure. So, in conclusion, what is needed is a genuine attempt by Mr. Puckett to assume a more modest stance, and along with his humility he may consequently discover he indeed has some informative advice which he can pass on to the reader.

Several topics of interest

Men's soccer says thanks

Dear Editors,

We (the Davidson men’s soccer team and Coach Slagle) would like to thank the campus community for its support during the fall season. Attendance and enthusiasm have been great. We got off to a tough start (losing six one-goal games, three of those in overtime) posting a 2-7-0 record. We then played Furman in Greenville, and behind the support of a group of students who had traveled to Washington during Fall Break. Because of a large group of Davidson students in D.C. for break and a good turnout for an alumni function, the Davidson contingent...n, “In Good” “est which come to mind include tips on stretching, warmup, running form, cross-training, weight-lifting techniques, and so on. Maybe he has some healthful recipes? Many of us have realized that the only way to eat truly healthfully is to “make it yourself.” I have found that moderate exercise and a common-sensical approach to eating work for me. Mr. Puckett needs to realize that what is good for Peter isn’t necessarily good for Paul. He should not pass unwarranted judgment on the Davidson student body, for it may be more healthy than he might think.

Sincerely,

University fans. Since being 2-7-0, the team's record has been 6-3-1 to improve our record to 8-10-1 with just the College of Charleston remaining on Sunday, November 5th. The support given us by the student body has helped the team turn its fortunes around.

Coach Charlie Slagle and the Davidson soccer team.

(The letter was signed by Charlie Slagle, Lance Long, Steve Ott, Thomas Hertel, Spider Wormuth, Rob Vest, Bruce Nofsinger, Philip Sprinkle, and Preston Yarborough)

More letters on page 16!

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

But what about the children?

The proposed ticket policy for basketball games at the new arena has already come under fire for numerous reasons. But one issue that has not yet been addressed concerns tickets for children. Many students have younger siblings who stay with them for a weekend to get an early taste of campus life. Will these students have to pay $10-12 to buy a full-priced ticket to bring their brother or sister to the games? Faculty, staff, and other parents will also face the same problem. And then there’s the question of where everyone will sit.

While much of the new complex still needs to be paid for, we also need to determine who should pay what and how much is too much, before letting the policy harden into the concrete final word. One instance in which the current ticket policy clearly presents too high a cost is its effect on students and children involved in the Big Brother/Little Brother and Big Sister/Little Sister programs. The key to these programs is forming friendships between students and less privileged children. Spending time with a child is the only way to show him or her that someone cares, and going to a Davidson basketball game had traditionally been an activity that involved many children in the community. But the current ticket policy leaves no room for such “exceptions.”

The ticket policy for the new arena, like any other good policy, needs to be flexible enough to fit the Davidson community it was designed to serve. As the Wildcat mascot can certainly confirm, children make up an important part of the Davidson basketball fan club. Families and students cannot afford to, and should not have to, pay $10-12 a piece for each child they wish to take to a game. Let's not forget some of our most loyal fans. All children under 12 need to have a special, affordable ticket price. In the case of children involved in the Big Brother/Little Brother and Big Sister/Little Sister programs, complimentary game passes in the upper-level student section should be available to them when they are accompanied by a student. Compromising the service aspect of the college is not an acceptable option for dealing with financial constraints. Davidson life. Let's not forget to incorporate this aspect of the college into the athletic arena.