16 April 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH ANNIVERSARY ISSUE

Weather Forecast
Fair and partly cloudy, high of 80 degrees, PAGE 2

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1958 No. 23

Kuykendall Plans Honor Council; Hell Week Completely Abolished

Broyles Elected To Presidency Of YMCA

Vernon Broyles defeated Melton Tankersley for president of the YMCA in an election held last Friday after both candidates had
presented their platforms to the members of the Y during the chapel period. The YMCA also elected Smitty Smith as
vice-president, Tom Colvin as secretary, and re-elected Bob Livingston as treasurer.

Broyles, a rising senior and a Union Carbide Scholar, is a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity and of Literary
Society. As chairman of the Committee on the Mission of the Church, Broyles took part in various YMCA activities this
year.

Smith, a rising junior, is also a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. During this past year he has served
as chairman of the Committee of Deputations. He is at the present serving as chairman of the Southern Region of
the YMCA. Smith is also a member of the swimming team.

Colvin, a rising sophomore, is a member of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity and of Philanthropic Literary Society. This past year
he has served the Y on the staff of the Student-Christian. Next year Colvin will be Assignments Editor of the
DAVIDSONIAN.

Livingston, a Baker Scholar, is a member of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity and of the Student Council. A rising junior,
he will serve as treasurer for the second year in succession.

Student Lawmakers Study Honor Council

At the meeting of the Student Council Monday night, discussion centered around the proposed Honor Council. The Honor Council Committee
recommended that there be 11 members on the Honor Council. This would mean that at every trial there would be
9 voting members, a prosecutor, and a defense.

This Honor Council would necessarily include some members with previous trial experience. The rising sophomore class would elect two permanent
members who would be on the council for three years. Next year the class would choose two additional men to
serve for two years. This would make a total of four men from the junior class. The following year one
additional member would be chosen for a total of five. Distribution of councilmen according to class would be sophomore class,
2; junior class, 4; and senior class, 5.

The Honor Council Committee recommended that the elections be held in the following order: student body officers, Student Council members,
and Honor Council. Whether the Student Council elections or the Honor Council elections should be held first still remains undecided.

Prompted by Recent Events, Says Jones

The Interfraternity Council this week announced passage of a resolution declaring traditional Hell Week activities at Davidson permanently abolished. IFC
President Bob Jones in explaining the council action remarked that the resolution was “precipitated by what happened to Hell Week
this year.”

Jones said that the IFC would promote “a more constructive program” for fraternity pre-initiation ceremonies next year. He expressed approval
of widely popular “Greek Week” festivities or a Help Week similar to that sponsored by Alpha Tau Omega fraternity at
Davidson.

The IFC resolution was passed in a meeting shortly before spring recess and was presented to the fraternity faculty committee
and the entire college faculty for approval. The faculty, while taking no formal legislative action, concurred with the IFC.

The Interfraternity president announced that another IFC meeting will be held to define what pre-initiation activities will be considered illegal
and to begin forming plans for the new program to be instituted next year. He remarked that money from fraternity
fines collected recently will be used to undertake a study of Greek Week festivals and to formulate plans for next
year's activities.

The Hell Week ruling, said Jones, is in keeping with the policies of national offices for (Continued On Page Four)

ROTC Cadet Officers Go To Wake Forest

Seven Davidson ROTC cadet officers were guests of honor of the Wake Forest College ROTC unit for a drill and
parade Tuesday, April 15. Cadets were greeted by Col. W. M. Peyton, PMS&T of the Wake Forest regiment, and by
the student Commander Rolan Thomas. After meeting cadet officers, the guests observed company drill and then reviewed a parade in
their honor.

Those cadets making the trip were: Col. Charles Stowe, Major Gary Maynard, Major Ken Forester, Lt. Col. Tim Teachey, Major
Graham McKinnon, Captain Bob Baker and Captain Dave McClain. Cadre Captain John Mitchell accompanied the students.

Prospects Visit College Campus

Fifty-five high school juniors and seniors participated in the first High School Weekend here last Friday and Saturday, April 11th
and 12th. The purpose of the weekend was to give high school students who are considering attending Davidson and who
had never visited the campus a chance to do so.

All of those who attended met entrance requirements and had been accepted by the college. While on the campus the
students visited classes and saw several Wildcat teams perform. The fraternities provided meals for the visitors. The participants had to
pay only for their transportation. The administration and the fraternities paid the visitors’ expenses while the students were on campus.
IFC, the administration, and the fraternities sponsored the weekend. There are plans to make this an annual event.

MEET THE PRESS

Must Establish Closer Student Relations

By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“Formation of the Honor Council, I am afraid, is impractical this year, but it will be instituted at the beginning
of next year.” These were the words of student body president John Kuykendall at a meeting with members of the
DAVIDSONIAN staff early this week. He went on to explain, “A committee appointed by this year's Council made several recommendations
to the Council last week. The main point of the report was that since the Honor Council is to be
a separate body from the Student Council itself, separate elections for positions on the Honor Council should be held.”

There was a question of whether the president of the Student Body should be on the Honor Council. The committee
decided that the Student Body President should be on the Honor Council in the capacity of a non-voting member. There,
then would be complete separation of the legislative and judicial branches of the Student Body. The President would act as
a liaison between the Student Council and the Honor Council, and he would be able to help iron out the
difficulties between the two bodies.

The members of this Honor Council would take the same oath as that taken by the Student Council members.the present
Student Council members. A quorum would require that out of the 11, 9 would have to be present. Honor Council
elections should be held.

BOB COLE (Continued On Page Four)
JOHN CALDWELL — LAURENS WALKER

Pictured above are the newly elected editors of Davidson's publications for 1958-59. Bob Cole will edit the “Scripts and Pranks,”
John Caldwell the “Quips and Cranks,” and Laurens Walker “The Davidsonian.”

Physical facilities and the extremely good relations between the ROTC Department and the administration. Garvin said that this was one
of the best physical plants that he had seen. His own command over 30 colleges in the southeast had nothing
comparable. The Honor Council should be held.” Kuykendall asserted that this spring’s elections had gone too far for an Honor
Council election to be held this year with the priority to which it is entitled.

Q. How did the Council arrive at its recommendation?
A. Mainly by writing other colleges such as UNC, Duke, and Elon, which already have Honor Councils in action.

Q. What would be the appeal procedure for a conviction by the Honor Council?
A. The procedure would be exactly as it is now. The student could appeal to the Faculty Committee on Appeals.
If the committee rejects the conviction, the trial would be brought before the faculty as a whole for further action.
If the committee upheld the Honor Council’s decision, the student would have the right to appeal the case directly to
the faculty. No appeal could be made to the Student Council.

Q. How is trial procedure determined?
A. In the past, the procedure has been based solely on past trials. I would like to see a written
procedure available to the Honor Council; and this is one thing I plan to do in the coming year.

Davidson Students At NSA Conference

Tommy Colvin, Ervin Duggan, and Bill Bondurant recently attended the Regional Conference of the National Student Association held at Randolph-Macon
College in Lynchburg, Virginia. As delegates to the conference, they took part in a number of discussion meetings concerning the
theme of the conference: student responsibilities in higher education. The discussions dealt with ways and means of developing student interest
in such areas of education as counseling services, honors courses, curriculum evaluation, and recruitment of future teachers. Delegates from schools
which do not have educational facilities such as our own were encouraged to set up student committees in their schools
to arouse student interest in the need for these facilities.

The inspectors were pleased with the large contribution of the ROTC to the college. Through payments to junior and senior
cadets, the government provides approximately $30,000 a year with a monthly payroll in excess of $3,000. This is the equivalent
of an endowment of about $750,000. The inspectors also discussed means for creating student interest in the intellectual potentials of
college life. The student council has appointed Tom Colvin to serve as chairman of a committee which is to investigate
the reasons for the deplorable Vespers conduct.

Q. Can you evaluate this year’s Student Council with the large amount of responsibility that has been placed on it?
A. I define deplorable Vespers conduct to be that conduct which hinders the worship of others. In the two main
offenses this year, the conduct was definitely deplorable. However, I would say that in the last month or so the
conduct has improved considerably. If it again becomes bad, I think that it is the Student Council’s responsibility to punish
offenders, although I don’t have a definite plan in mind. I shall say, though, that if the need arises again,
the Student Council will take action on it.

(Continued On Page Four)

Bermuda Story Ends At Davidson

Bermudas will be in vogue this weekend. It is therefore entirely fitting and proper that a summary of the history
of Bermudas be set down. After reading this summary, the sophisticated Davidsonian can thrill his date with his extensive knowledge.

The noted historian Chalmers Davidson, in his latest book, An Historian’s Approach to the Bermudas of the Pithecanthropi, says: “Bermudas
were first used by the Pithecanthropi because of the usefulness of the buckle for dangling from and swinging back and
forth on limbs. The Pithecanthropus also found the buckle useful for dragging home his mate after the annual spring frolic.
It is well to note, however, that prior to this time the Bermudas had been ROTC brown to blend with
unwashed skin. The Bermudas of this time consisted of only the buckle.”

But, as man progressed, so did Bermudas. There was great tumult in Rome the day Julius Caesar stood up in
a smoke-filled Senate and uttered those immortal words, “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas.” It seems that Julius was setting the
style by wearing the first of the skirt-type Bermudas. Cleopatra, in one of her revolutionary moods, suggested that Caesar wear
white skirt-type Bermudas. Julius, unlike the virile Davidsonian, bowed to her wishes and decreed that only the emperor could wear
them. It was for this reason that Brutus killed him. Caesar’s famous “Et tu Brute?” was said when he saw
Brutus approach him wearing white Bermudas.

The skirt-type Bermudas were worn until the time of Napoleon Bonaparte. When Napoleon reached Moscow in the 1812 campaign, he
decided that he should sew legs into his skirt, since the cold Russian wind created a very unpleasant draft. (The
reader should note that the Scottish kilts are descended from Caesar’s Bermudas. The wind of Scotland has not proved as
drafty as the Russian wind.) Peter Stewart Ney, “a mysterious Frenchman respected for his learning,” carried so many documents to
prove that he was Napoleon’s Marshal Ney that he had to sew containers onto his Bermudas before he reached Davidson.
These containers developed into the side-pockets of the present Bermudas. Slick John Cunningham, noted numismatist, added the rear pocket in
order to carry around endowment papers and other useful objects he acquired. Thus the Bermudas have developed to what they
are today. There will be a variety of colors, sizes, and shapes loose on the Davidson campus this weekend, some
of which may prove interesting to behold. But, if the Davidson weather is consistent, many legs will flee from the
discomfort of our local version of short-shorts.

Davidson was the scene of several burglaries on the night of Feb. 4, 1954. Davidson night watchman Ed N. Linker
helped capture a murderer. Over $350, and two students, Martin Foil and Joe Jenkins, were threatened at gunpoint after challenging
the burglar.
