The Davidsonian
Thursday, March 2, 1989

OVERCROWDING

People shroud my skeleton. A turbo sewing
machine at night, not a fortune. Sardines aren’t all;
it is worse sometimes; the searing bangs and
bellows. Either one without the other would
smell like a well-used locker room. Does Thom's
body always press up against mine? It’s

unbearable. But no. I double over as the drill presses
on for seconds, and counting. Me and Thom and
the space until the sonic boom accents our
smile, only wrinkled fossils of departed track
stars. Toenails are elbows, and breasts: buttons.
It hurts and stings my vision. At least I didn’t
weaken, but instinctively my fibrous shell
tightens, and a black Buddha

hits the far wall only to slide down into an empty
seat. I shout a bit, but I’m still struggling to drain off
the sweat. Not ready for them; they'll have to go away.
I reach for the light switch when Justin, Thom, and
Mark fall down on my chest, cannonball-style. We start
laughing. Mark can’t finish his story about Floralia,
our paradise. The heat is unforgiving, as flakes
of dehydration. It’s good to have the team
here. Not ideal, at least we're not back in the locker
room. We reach for the gas masks, but

then we stampede. He’s stupid: Wine coolers
wasting time. Where are the R.A.’s when you need them?
Thom paces ominously toward the platform.
Steam rises from the waffle iron-death trap.
He takes his place among the other lucky winners.
I refuse to relinquish his pen and notepad. Thom
says it is O.K. Mark steps forward. Looks like I’m

next. He takes a deep breath, seals his
nostrils, and fires at the T.V. screen. No more silliness.
Like a cold shower: I step forward boldly,

flop belly-down-spread-eagle on the frying
pan. The executioner flips the switch, then answers the
phone. It is. Tanning salon overdrive. Help! Help!
I wail, as fluids and organs bubble up through
the leather, and run toward the chair. My hands

are numb. Thom says, “Back to the locker room, pal.”

—Trevor M. Knox

Visions

The sun creates a golden pathway
Through the valley,

Painting its glorious colors across the sky
And in every copse and crevice.

As I sit on the sands of time
Beside the cool waters of the lake,

The reflections of trees, rocks, and myself
Waver with the rhythm
Of the flowing water.

It creates a beat of its own,
Memorized only by nature,
And its quiet lapping on the shore
Relaxes me into
Oblivion.

The water creates a silvery mist
Making the air
Moist and cool.

As I follow it across the water with my eyes,
It forms a delicate silver carriage
Drawn by silver horses
Their skin rippling with the strain
Of the muscles.

Sweet Diana’s raven tresses
Wave and flutter behind her,
And she calls to her beasts...
They bear their precious burden
With reverence.

As I watch, the carriage travels
Up the golden trail of sunlight
To a place hitherto unnoticed.

My majestic steeds of imagination
Fade into the sunset
Forsaking me...

But another day shall come
When I will rest on this very spot.
And I will allow myself
To remember...
To dream...
And my lonely visions
Will return to me.

Molly Yarbrough ‘92
