TALES, from page 3

whom I have met only hours previously in a rail station in Oostende, Belgium, while fifty drunks stare at us
and speak to us in slurred foreign languages. In Oostende, I met Chet who had on a Duke sweatshirt and
said he was going to Frankfurt. Since I wasn’t sure where to go, I tagged along. When we arrived in
Frankfurt late at night we frantically searched for food since we both were starving. We found Wendy’s open and met
a U.S. Army guy who told us that bums spend the night there all the time, so that’s what we
did, too. Two very drunk and crazy men, who were also fluent in several languages, talked to us all night.
For hours the one named Matthew told us over and over again about good women, a fight he’d been in,
how much the Danish drink, that the night wasn’t good for me, and that we'd be asleep in 10-25 minutes.
Oh what a night! My parents would be horrified.

20 Sept. 1988. Here I am in Queen Elizabeth Hall at King’s College with all the other Beaver College study
abroad students! In some ways it’s nice to be getting started with my program, but I really sort of miss
my freedom and independence and the flexibility of my recent unstructured European holiday (as the English would say).

3 Oct. 1988. My final destination--YORK! The campus landscaping is beautiful with plush grass and lots of trees plus a
lake with ducks and geese. BUT this is undoubtedly some of the ugliest architecture I have ever seen in my
life!! 60’s style. Unpacking was weird--only two suitcases and a backpack to unpack and no music. I’m gonna have to
get a radio or I simply won’t survive.

13 Oct. 1988. The British washing machines load from the side like dryers and only fill the bottom portion with
water, thus only some of the clothes are immersed at a time. Strange.

7 Nov. 1988. BROCCOLI!!! Oh, it was wonderful to have broccoli again. I’m dying for green, leafy vegetables. (I had
gone into a Chinese restaurant in York with a friend. We gave the waitress the order “Whatever you have with
broccoli in it.”) The British diet is not exactly balanced, and in fact when you are referred to as a
“healthy American,” you are not expected to regard it as a compliment.

12 Nov. 1988. Grassington, The Yorkshire Dales. (This is the place James Herriott writes about.) We embarked on a hike
in the countryside. Beautiful. Gorgeous. Magnificent. Peaceful. Green. Sheep. Cows. Hills. Trees. Waterfall into a stream. Acres and acres of
land. Miles and miles of uncemented stone walls dividing fields. We walked for hours on footpaths through mud and stones
and sheep and a graveyard. We went into an old church through a gate which instructed you to close and
lock it back after you to keep the sheep out!

13 Nov. 1988. There was a BLUE SKY today!! It felt like North Carolina with that clear blue sky. I’m
not homesick at all though. I want to stay here for the whole year so badly! I really do. I’ve
even thought of what I would have to go through to stay the rest of the year. BUT--I can’t. It’s
as simple as that. I cannot stay the whole year. The reasons why I’m here for only one term won’t
go away. Somehow all the reasons seem painfully inadequate right now when my heart and soul have become attached to
Yorkshire, to friends I’m making here, to England.

17 Nov. 1988. I’m back in the big city again--LONDON. It hasn’t changed much since I was here two months
ago, but I have. This time I feel like a University of York student coming to London for the weekend,
not like an American coming to Europe for a term.

18 Nov. 1988. Lunch was one of our more memorable experiences of the day. I got a “chicken salad” sandwich
which is more accurately described as cartilage, suffering from rigor mortis perhaps. Pretty bad, but it made for a good
joke for the rest of the day. (Note: When in London, do not eat at cheap restaurants.)

19 Nov. 1988. We survived. What did we survive? Oxford Street at 5:00 p.m. on a Saturday during Christmas shopping
season after several hours of struggling through Harrod’s with half of Britain and a few other countries. Kim and I
hit every floor in Harrod’s. We conquered! We only bought sweets. Kim and I agree that we're glad we come
together--neither of us has gotten upset the numerous times we’ve had to turn around and retrace our steps because we
went the wrong way. We should be map-reading experts by now. I hate to think how many times we’ve stopped,
pulled out the map, asked ourselves, “are we going the right way?” “well, where are we?” When we got the
tube (subway) to King’s Cross Station, we found swarms of bobbies with German Shepherds. It looked like they were preparing
for a big drug bust. We asked a bobby about what was going on. Two of them very kindly and
courteously (true to their reputation) explained that they were there to control the football (soccer) hooligans. They do this after
EVERY football game and there are 11 soccer teams in London!

24 Nov. 1988. Well, this was probably the only Thanksgiving I’ll ever spend sitting in a lecture. We Americans thought
of Thanksgiving songs after class. There was a handmade Happy Thanksgiving card for me under my door. It immediately made
me smile and I figured one of the Americans had done Thanksgiving cards for everyone. Well, even better than that--the
card was from my corridor mates--British friends who knew that it was an American holiday.

28 Nov. 1988. I went into York alone today--I walked in. I really was observant of little details. I noticed
the moulding on flat (as in house) doors, how the houses areAll lined up without yards between them, all the
Socialist Worker posters with big bold letters proclaiming “Margaret Thatcher Murders 14 People” or something similar. I paid more attention
to the street signs, British cars, all the bakeries and pubs and Fish & Chips shops. All the medieval remnants
around York—the big gold and blue and green clocks, emblems, the city wall, statues, the MINSTER—Ah!, the bookies, The Nut
Centre, Tesco’s, Marks & Spencer’s, C&A, bus stops, etc. I could go on forever talking about all the trivial things
that make York York, and Yorkshire Yorkshire and how I’ll treasure these little details and WHEN I return, I will
feel at home because of them.

The Minster is the huge, famous Gothic Cathedral located in York which contains the world’s largest stained-glass window (which is
the size of a tennis court). It is the primary tourist attraction of York and is truly awe-inspiring. The Nut
Centre and C&A are all store names of stores I frequented.

7 Dec. 1988. My corridor gave a dinner party with me as guest of honour tonight! Alistair and Anna cooked
a tender turkey, carrots, potatoes (of course), brussel sprouts, and plum pudding with brandy sauce or custard for dessert. We
had wine. Smart dress for everyone. I got tears in my eyes when I saw all they’d done for me—candlelight,
farewell sign, delicious food and great company! I’m going to miss this lot SO MUCH! (Note: Smart dress means roughly
semi-formal or dressed up at least. The word ‘lot’ is used in this way frequently by Brits, and by this
point I was sounding quite a bit like them.)

9 Dec. 1988. Last day at the University of York. Everybody left me today. The hall is completely dead tonight.
It’s probably better for me this way. I need this time alone at the end to unwind, pack, think, cry,
be quiet, remember, think ahead, listen to music, accept that this is it—it’s over—I’m leaving. I miss them (friends here)
already. I almost finished packing and at 7 a.m. have decided to sleep for an hour. Packing means leaving and
that’s tough—especially this time. Ouch.

13 Dec. 1988. Edinburgh, Scotland. The Scottish really do have their own accent—very sing-songy. They seem a proud people too.
Very proud of their heritage. SCOTLAND! I’m glad I made it here even though I’m only getting to see Edinburgh
and only for a few days. Definitely worth it.

14 Dec. 1988. Train from Edinburgh through York to London. I got a seat near the door as usual and
an Aussie sat across from me. The Aussie was really cool. We have the same birthday! Can you believe that?
06 May. I flipped. He didn’t believe me, so I produced ID proving it. I really enjoyed talking to him.
The people I’ve met on these trains! Great conversations, but this one may have topped them all. I could’ve easily
talked to this bloke for hours without boredom. He told me about Australia—heat, wet season, no unemployment, tons of empty
and some unexplored land. Crocodile Dundee definitely a stereotype—no one carries those knives. Found out that British drivers’ licenses are
good once you have them for YEARS and YEARS unless you’re in an accident or something. No picture on them
either.

17 Dec. 1988. Wurzburg, West Germany. It’s great to be with Sarah again. It will be strange not rooming with
her at Davidson next term. We have talked and talked about our study abroad experiences till the wee hours of
the morning since I arrived. I have just realized that I will probably feel culture shock when I return to
the States in a few days. How strange! I prepared to acclimate to a foreign culture when I came over
in August, but I never really thought about the fact that returning to the U.S. could be strange, but I
fear it will be. Oh, well. I adjusted once; I can adjust again. I need to lose this mutt accent
I’ve developed though. I keep being called Dutch, Swedish, or British everywhere I go. I’m sure I’ll lose it soon
enough once I’m back on home turf. I still wish I could stay, but I am looking forward to seeing
everyone at home and at Davidson and getting back into the swing of things. I’ll have to learn how to
study again. This has been an academic vacation compared to Davidson. I knew the British system was different—now I know
how. They don’t work. The British culture is much more relaxed in some ways, yet they take themselves more seriously
than we Americans do in others. One thing is for sure—there’s absolutely no substitute for living in another culture. It’s
an experience that simply cannot be gotten any other way. I have learned so much in such a relatively small
span of time. This is an experience which has permanently changed me—made me open-minded about things I formerly couldn’t be
open-minded about because I didn’t even know they existed.
