Monday, February 20, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Life as an independent: The search for conference continues

By ROBERT GRUBB

Davidson left the Southern Conference in 1987, when the College decided that it could not comply with the conference’s new rule that Davidson would have to play a full Southern Conference football schedule. Two years later, all of Davidson’s varsity teams are competing without a conference affiliation. Competing as an independent institution affects all of the teams (men’s basketball, soccer, and tennis and women’s tennis), but most visibly affected is the basketball team.

By not having a conference affiliation, the basketball team loses the possibility of an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament, the chance to compete in the conference tournament, and any shared revenue of the conference, from TV or tournament appearances by member schools. The team also loses many intangible benefits. Because a conference schedule is not guaranteed, the team has often traveled long distances to play unfamiliar teams.

“Many times this year we have traveled to places like Florida International University (in Miami) and Northern Illinois to play teams that have good players, but we really couldn’t relate to who they were,” said Head Basketball Coach Bobby Hussey. This unfamiliarity can lead to mental letdowns, and make it harder for the players to stay up. “When you have a young team in somewhat of a down year, like we do this year, and you don’t have a post-season tournament to look forward to, it makes it hard for the team during January and February,” said Hussey.

Junior Maurice Gray agrees with Hussey, “Playing unfamiliar teams adds the factor of uncertainty, but we still try to go out and win some games.” Another group hurt by the lack of a conference affiliation is the fans. “Fan enthusiasm is off this year, especially among the alumni,” said Hussey. “A big part of our success has always been fan support, and the students have continued to support us, although there have been reasons not to.”

Unfortunately, getting into an athletic conference is not an easy task. “Right now is a good time to be looking for a conference affiliation,” said Athletic Director Kit Morris. “There is a lot of activity. We are looking at a number of possible conferences. Any leads we have on a way to solve this concern are prosecuted fully.”

Morris indicated that not having a women’s basketball team might hurt the college’s chances for joining a conference. Hussey said that his personal preference is the Sun Belt Conference. “We approached the Colonial Athletic Association first, but it (the CAA) seems to have become a dead issue,” said Hussey. “The Sun Belt would be a big step forward. They are a competitive conference that usually places one or two teams in the NCAAs. They also are fairly close geographically, and have a good TV package.”

“Joining the Sun Belt would require an increased commitment and general upgrade from the college,” according to Hussey. But he believes that with resulting increased exposure, and revenue, Davidson could be competitive. “I think the higher levels of exposure and competition would be reflected in better recruiting,” said Hussey.

The effect of not being in a conference is of direct concern to recruiting. Since there is only one senior on the team this year, being independent was not a problem. Hussey has already signed someone to fill the slot. “Next year will be the telling year,” said Hussey. “It will be important to be able to show recruits that something is being done about joining a conference.”

Morris also recognizes the importance of acting as quickly as possible. These conferences all have eight or ten members, which means that they do not need to expand. It also means that Davidson will likely need to find another school to join with, to keep membership at an even number. These conferences are all Division I and encompass all of Davidson's current varsity sports, except football. This works out nicely, since the football team will compete in Division III.

The following list of phobias are cited from Useful Phobias in Panic:

- Thalassophobia—fear of the ocean
- Doritophobia—fear of Doritos
- Gephyrophobia—fear of crossing bridges
- Gynophobia—fear of women
- Ophidiophobia—fear of snakes
- Kakorraphiaphobia—fear of failure
- Gatophobia—fear of cats
- Agoraphobia—fear of open spaces
- Spermophobia—fear of germs
- Technophobia—fear of technology
- Cynophobia—fear of dogs
- Sciophobia—fear of shadows
- Ochlophobia—fear of crowds
- Nyctophobia—fear of night
- Aerophobia—fear of flyingDecidophobia—fear of making decisions  
Blennophobia—fear of slime  
Topophobia—fear of performing  
Katagelophobia—fear of ridicule  
Tropophobia—fear of moving  
Eremophobia—fear of aloneness  
Astrapophobia—fear of lightning  
Musophobia—fear of mice  
Pnigerophobia—fear of smothering  
Apiphobia—fear of bees  
Scholionophobia—fear of school  
Gamophobia—fear of marriage  

"If we identify a conference that will accept us, it is my strong sense that we will be prepared to move," said Morris. "But it is important that the conference be the right one for Davidson."

Wildcats look for 30 wins this season  
By JOE HOOVER

Just do it! That’s the 1989 Davidson baseball team motto. With the talent returning from last year’s record-setting 28 victories, plus some promising young freshmen, this year’s team holds the potential for 30 or more wins. A tough independent schedule will force the Wildcats to show what they’re made of, as they take on some of the best teams in the country, including Clemson, Georgia Tech, and North Carolina.

Leading the way will be senior captain Jeff Loser. A pitcher in the starting rotation, he is joined by juniors Greg Wilcox (11-5) and Jay Harris, and sophomore David Williams to form the nucleus of a deep staff. Freshmen Joe Azzolino and Derek Twombly will also see some duty as starters, with Azzolino also acting as the designated hitter. Senior Phil Magaldi, sophomore Bruce Koch, and freshman Bill Stanfill serve as the middle relievers, with stopper Brad Wanzenberg (11 saves last year) to close the door.

The regular lineup has undergone a few changes due to recent injuries. A hand injury will force junior third baseman Pete Hughes (.358, 7 HRs) out of action for 6-8 weeks. Junior Steve Livesey will move from first to third, with freshman Tim Kerns moving in at first. The double-play combination has also changed this year, with junior Mikio Aoki (.324, 13 HRs) moving from second to behind the plate, and senior Mike Holland (.328, 16 SBs) from shortstop to second. Freshman Mike Liebdzinski will take over for Holland at short. Freshman John Woodall and senior Pete Mangone will also see action in the infield, though Mangone is out for 4 weeks with a broken toe. Senior Mark Weir and three freshmen will back up Aoki at catcher.

Club lacrosse ready to go  
By BEN TREGOE

Like a proverbial mustard seed, Davidson lacrosse was sown in the fertile ground of the campus. It was carefully nurtured and has grown into a strong lax bush coursing with the virile life-blood of the college’s men. Coaches Tom Crystal and Dave Becker have built a strong program with over 40 players. Coming off two decisive victories over Furman in the fall season, the team is preparing for its 14-game spring schedule. The opening shot of this season will be fired here at Davidson against Pfeiffer on March 5.

The key to the team’s growth has been the huge influx of rookies. Dean Vanderwarker and Robbie Huber provide experience in the crucial midfield position. Dave Smyth, John Patton, Lee Canipe, and Brian Keller are just a few of the freshmen midfield corps. Seniors Steve “Sluggo” Godwin, Mark Piehl, and the middie of the future, Ed Powell, provide leadership for the midfielders. Two hard-hitting warriors, Gat Caperton and Ken Nazemetz, add beef to the already strong defense. Hardened veterans Seth Force, Tim Sparks, and John Gary Maynard have welcomed the recent defensive infusion to this pack of crazed meat-eating dogs. Should the opposition somehow get past this hard-hitting force, sophomore Stevie Bell and freshman Phil Degnan will stop the ball from going in the goal.

The attack, the scorers, will keep opposing teams busy with their explosive scoring potential. High school All-American Tom Crystal, penetrating machine Dave Becker, and the master of the touch Bryan Butler are an experienced trio of attackmen. “The future is now,” recently remarked last year’s captain Ed Powell. Not quite. Lacrosse at Davidson has grown, but its future, its destiny, is varsity status. This spring, come out in the sun and watch the Davidson lacrosse team.

The outfield has also been shuffled, with junior Ron Kmacik (.298, 17 SBs) moving to left field and sophomore Ralph Isernia (.358, 6 HRs, 12 SBs) to center. Senior George Halter will man right field. Sophomores Dan Cotton and Linn Williams are also expected to play an important role in the outfield. This season’s opener is Friday at 2:00 against Radford University here at Wildcat Park. Radford returns for a doubleheader on Saturday (12:00), while USC-Spartanburg comes to Davidson on Sunday (1:00). Come out and enjoy the sun while supporting the ‘Cats as they start their bid for a spot in the NCAA Regional playoffs and another record-breaking season.

Stop Submitting To Others And Start Submitting To Inside Art.