Thursday, March 2, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Structures for Peace Conference confronts partisanism

Davidson students attend international session

By JAY BARRON

A group of 21 Davidson students and faculty were part of over 1,200 people who attended the Structures for Peace Convocation in Washington, D.C. in an effort to propose measures for international peace. The sessions, even attended by several international delegates, brought together activists from many humanitarian and environmental groups and various political perspectives in an attempt to cut through some of the myths of war and militarism and to find some common ground.

“The big news of the day,” proclaimed William Sloane Coffin, a New York minister and a SANE/FREEZE activist, “is that the world must be managed as a whole, and not just its parts.” Davidson participants agreed that the conference as a whole presented a lot of good information. Associate professor of history Ralph Levering stated that he enjoyed the “intellectually stimulating” environment of the weekend. “I was very pleased when people discussed specifics, such as the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and certain environmental pollution issues. I didn’t like it when the speakers became rhetorical, and I also saw that people can become narrow-minded and self-serving [even with the best intentions].”

One message which emerged was that the words “peace movement,” which conjure negative images for many people—i.e. liberalism and the perception of anti-Americanism that dates from the Vietnam era—must be redefined as a non-partisan term. Many speakers extended the application of the term to nuclear disarmament, human rights, the environment crisis, and the “war mentality,” stressing that they are not simply Republican or Democratic issues, but are global, and should be confronted by every person on earth in a unified effort, regardless of his or her political opinions.

One of the groups represented was the World Federalists, an organization which works to strengthen international structures such as the United Nations and the World Court. Vasily S. Safronchuk, a high-ranking Soviet envoy to the United Nations, reminded the conference that U.N. General Assembly resolutions are not binding. Rather they are mere recommendations to which nations often do not adhere. The U.N. needs “teeth,” said Safronchuk. Terms such as “global,” “unified,” and “planethood” were common at the conference, as speaker after speaker reasserted the increasingly vital role that international organizations will need to play in order to stave off war and militarism.

Many felt that educating fellow students about the critical need for involvement is key, and that nurturing understanding and involvement is simply going to be a gradual process. Sophomore Gilbert Shaw pointed out that fighting the traditionally conservative elements on campus is not the way to involve more students. “If we are really going to lead, we should get involved with those groups, so we can discuss issues instead of fighting over them.”

Freshman John Howell said that, overall, he was very glad he went to Washington. “It was great to hear Norman Cousins, and some of the other speakers. It’s disappointing, because a lot of people are in it for the wrong reasons. It was too much patting ourselves on the back.” Alex Hayden reiterated what several of the speakers had said: people must be realistic about their goals and reduce them to a workable size. “If all you’re working on is the big picture, it’s like beating your head against a wall. Soon it’s going to start to hurt, and you’ll quit. You’ve got to work locally and recognize the successes, or people won’t stick with it,” said Hayden.

Many student conferees from all over the country complained about student apathy on social issues, environmental concerns, nuclear escalation—both its threats and its costs—and environmental destruction. Some of the Davidson participants returned with very positive feelings. Service Coordinator Caroline Craig said that she “came away feeling challenged to find my own way to build a bridge between the way the world is as I see it and my vision of how it could be.” Others saw the conference as an eye-opener. Kevin Dunn, a senior, stated that the conference was full of “self-righteousness.” “It was like we had all the answers, and that we have some sort of mission to educate,” he said. “It’s as though we can’t learn anything from the young Republicans or ROTC, which is absolute B.S.,” he continued. Clint Massengill agreed. “I can see why the peace movement doesn’t get anywhere.”the other noted authors that spoke. Many of the speakers Kaylor’s book centers on Paul’s community concept.

By SONYA STARNES

Religion professor R. David Kaylor recently published a new book entitled Paul’s Covenant Community: Jew & Gentile in Romans in which he proposes that “the fundamental conviction underlying all of Paul’s theological expression is that in Christ God is acting to bring all humankind, Gentile and Jew, into one community of the new covenant.” This interpretation carries a number of implications: it directs future study away from the concept of individual sin and salvation and towards that of the individual’s place in the community of faith, it puts forth Paul’s repeated use of the phrase “no distinction” as the key to understanding his letter, and it views the bringing together of Jew and Gentile by God as fundamental to Paul’s understanding of “God’s saving event.”

Kaylor said that the class “Paul and the Human Situation,” which he has taught for the past 24 years, has been a very influential factor in the writing of his book. His interest in Paul’s letter can be traced even further, however—to a seminar he took while doing graduate work at Duke University. Kaylor is currently researching the political aspect of Jesus’ life in relation to first-century Palestine.

In addition to his recently published book, Kaylor is also the author of God Near: An Interpretation of the Thought of Nammalvar. He tentatively plans to publish a book on this topic following his next sabbatical which he predicts will be in two or three years. Paul’s Covenant Community is available in the student store.

On the other hand, John agreed with those who felt that “peace had been portrayed at the conference as a partisan issue, which it’s not.” Possibly the most poignant critique of the conference came from an anonymous typist, who distributed a statement on the last day of the conference which he or she entitled A Message of Concern about the Peace Movement. It said: “The common pitch is simple. Like it or not, and more than ever before, we are all in the same boat. The boat is becoming more crowded, the weather is changing faster, and unless we can quickly learn to care, communicate and cooperate with each other, we may not reach our home port.” In spite of all the honest information and great intentions, the Structures for Peace Convocation reflected how far the peace movement must still advance. Conferees spoke of the invisible forces and attitudes that still hinder the search for justice, human rights, environmental responsibility, and nuclear sanity worldwide.

PEEVES, from page 4

a new album and say, “What d’ ya think of this great new song?” I don’t want to hear, “Um, it’s very... interesting.” Flat-out tell me that it stinks if you think so. If you don’t want to hurt my feelings, lie to me—albums aren’t life-threatening. Just please don’t insult my intelligence by saying one thing and meaning another.

When I lose a game of chess, do not say, “Gee, you’re such a good sport.” I know I’m not a good sport. I smile and act naturally because society frowns on people who turn over game boards and throw knights and pawns against the wall. I either have to let you in on my little secret or thank you for an embarrassing and inaccurate compliment.

And what about deciding on which movie to see? I turn to Entertainment in the newspaper, my friend and I narrow it down to Rain Man or Twins and then she says, “Either one is fine with me.” I dread that phrase. I always know it’s coming and it means that I will be responsible for the movie if it turns out to be a flop.

But my all-time hated phrase is one that is meant to look like a slip of the tongue, but I’m convinced it’s intentional. Whether it’s a friend’s kitchen, a care package or an Easter basket, someone always says, “Hey! Do you want some... oh, I forgot you’re dieting.”