Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Thursday, October 19, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Puckett’s critics come out swinging

Dear Editors,

Thank you for the amusement, but we’ve had enough. Please do all of your readers a favor and get rid of Mark Puckett.

Sincerely,  
36-25-36

To the Editors,

As a former Managing Editor of The Davidsonian, might I suggest a change in layout? Move Mark Puckett’s column to the comics page where it belongs.

Sincerely,  
Sarah Canadine Bayne

Football

Dear Editor,

My name is Anthony Foxx, and I am a freshman. I guess all freshmen make some adjustments in lifestyles. Some study longer, some party more, and some do neither. For me, many changes have come in the classroom, but my biggest shock has been observing our relationship with our football team.

As I visited Davidson last year, I heard about our football team. I’d heard that we hadn’t had a winning season in a long time. I heard that we weren't very competitive in our games anyway. Finally, it was decided that we’d be moved to Division III. I had not seen a Davidson football game until this season, and if what I heard was true last year, this team has made a remarkable improvement. The team has shown great effort in both home games and the one in Charlotte against J.C. Smith. The difference in the score of the home losses has been 5 points total.

Students, townspeople, and everyone else have been down on the guys for the longest time. Now they are showing signs of competitiveness, aggressiveness, and desire to win. We should support them fully. During the first game, I was amazed to see people booing and shouting—we were winning. Furthermore, when the game was over, everyone was smiling, jumping, and cheering as if they’d supported the team for years.

I can see the frustration in the eyes of some of the older players. They have battled on the field, in the classroom, and elsewhere to gain respect. I respect them. I know I couldn’t practice twice a day in the summer, three hours a day during the year, finish my schoolwork, and be the average socialite. Our football players are special. I guess what I’m trying to say is that our football team needs our consistent support. No athlete at this institution deserves to be booed or ridiculed by his or her own fans. It’s time Davidson extended its classy style to include support of all its student-athletes, including our football players.

Sincerely,  
Anthony Foxx

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors  
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors  
Heath Hardage, Features Editor  
Chris Kelly, Business Manager  
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor  
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor  
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers  
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor  
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager  
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor  
John Burns, Sports Editor  
Thomas Hampson Moore, Muckracker

Racism

Racism—that confused and ugly philosophy which seeks to destroy the soul of certain human beings—was the subject of a forum held last night in the 900 Room. Those absent missed hearing the frustration as well as the determination of Black, Hispanic, and white students in the face of racial intolerance.

I hope readers don't scan this editorial and conclude that, oh well, since Muadi is African here she goes addressing the “black problem.” First of all, racism is not a “black problem,” neither is it a “white problem.” It is a global disease which uses color—any color—as an excuse to oppress those from whom God’s blessings are to...be withheld. Racists deny themselves the opportunity to regard each man for himself. They are ignorant and threatened by others’ encroachment upon their immediate surroundings, as well as by the possibility of sharing resources. Racism’s victims have learned to persist despite adversity, and have even gathered strength from suffering. They have learned to have self-respect even if none is accorded to them. Although racism has the potential to make its victims an angry people, internalized anger only eats one’s insides. The triumph of the oppressed occurs when he does not allow outside hate to make him a hater as well.

Secondly, every human being deserves the chance to live his life to its fullest potential. Whose right is it to decide that one of a different complexion is inferior in intelligence and morality so as to not merit that given right? Although Europeans have historically made it their right throughout the world, the remnants of that attitude currently live through prejudice in persons of all color. Thus racism is not a “black problem”—it affects and concerns all. Present forms of racism, although more subtle than their past counterparts, have a powerful effect.

I hope no one is astonished to hear that racism is present on campus. Some may say that racism does not exist at Davidson—oh no!—not at that excellent Presbyterian college whose community is so open-minded. That is a false assumption. True, there are no racial epithets scrawled on dorm hallways (at least to my knowledge) and no gang of white students will dare beat up a student who is not white. But there are certainly prejudices here. Why is it that some Hispanic and Black students feel unwanted here? Could it be because campus police, and on one occasion, even visiting parents, ask for identification? Why is it some feel that they are under microscopes of disdain? Is it because when they walk past you, purses are tightly clutched and paces quickened? Why is it that one student is applying elsewhere (to a predominantly black institution) after only seven weeks of class? Is it because there he will not be looked upon as a curiosity or a threat but as a human being?

It may be difficult for whites to imagine experiencing these circumstances, as stated by one student last night. Yet they are very real.

What is the solution to racism? Without professing to be a sociologist, I can nevertheless say, as was also suggested last night, that education is a key factor in the opening of minds and the obliteration of preconceived notions. U.S. history lessons do not include study of the civilization and achievements of most non-white groups. Secondly, lack of contact with other races robs one of the opportunity to appreciate different cultures. Doesn’t cultural ignorance also breed prejudice? Is there cultural awareness and appreciation at Davidson?

Despite racism’s predominance in society, one does not have to tolerate its vindictiveness. As suggested by one student, the fight can be fought even on an individual level. Rather than tolerate racial slurs in casual conversation, express your disapproval. As a freshman stated, those who simply observe racism’s path are actually perpetuators of the problem. It is through tolerance that racism has been allowed to exist. It is only when we all realize that we all have something to learn from one another and that the world can be shared, that we can hope to alleviate some of the causes of racism. —m.m.