TRUMP INSTALLS INCREDIBLE NEW CONDOM MACHINES IN DORMS!!

“I like thinking big,” Trump says! “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.”

Women scramble for rooms in bloody battle!

By LEMON NEWSWOMAN

Many students returned from the mid-April room assignments with lacerated faces and claw marks covering their bodies. The painful lack
of dormitory space caused massive rioting and violence among students. Apparently, the freshmen girls were the most upset.

“A cluster of eight girls who wanted to cluster in Cannon were out of control,” said Tom Jennings, residence life
director.

Caroline Nelson, a rising sophomore, let out a wild yell when she heard that her cluster would have to be
split up. “She sounded like a she-devil from hell!” said Lesley Vauclain, a rising sophomore. Carrington Mangum, another rising sophomore,
displayed even more raucous behavior. Her roommate for next year, Hillary Bridgers, looked on as Carrington uttered profanities unknown to
most virginal Davidson ears. Carrington then proceeded to tell the cluster in front of her exactly how the El Salvadoran
death squad she had hired would dissect them if they took the room she wanted. (Bridgers is now advertising for
a new roommate.)

Housing for next year is so scarce that many are making down payments on insulated garbage cans as a precaution.
“It’ll be a new environmental experience,” said Hilary Coman, a rising sophomore. “I like to be close to nature; I'm
an earth mother at heart.” Blaine John, another rising sophomore, agreed with Hilary, revealing that he and Hilary plan to
buy or rent adjoining cans next year.

Many less earthy students plan to pursue a more “civilized” lifestyle in the condominiums at Davidson Landing. Richard McCoy, acting
manager of the condos, has lured many off-campus bound students to the exclusive Lake Norman settlement with promises of “Massive
orgies, free and abundant alcohol, and a nudist camp atmosphere.” Chris Clark, a freewheeling Kappa Sig, said, “I think the
kind of environment that the condos would provide could only enhance male-female relations at Davidson. Free love is definitely beneficial.”

SGA prez Tripp Helms was appalled by Clark’s statement. “That comment is not worthy of a true Kappa Sigma, or
of any Davidson student!” Helms suggested that a forum be held to discuss the “free love” condos. “I don’t think
the trustees will go for it either,” Helms predicted.

As desperate freshmen searched for nonexistent “up the hill” rooms during the last few minutes of room selection, Fran Fierro,
a rising sophomore, appraised the situation. “I say screw the freshmen! If Davidson wants to make the next year, then
let the little freshmen suffer! If we just put five freshmen in a room, then ALL the sophomores could be
up the hill!” Tom Jennings did promise one benefit for the homeless: “A free condom machine will be installed in
the residences of those who are forced to live off-campus.”

By CAPTAIN KANGAROO

Donald Trump made good this morning on his pledge to immediately install condom machines in all Trump University dorms. The
deluxe system installed is activated by slipping a Trump University I.D. card (a specially modified platinum American Express Card) into
a slot on the side of the machine. A condom is then dispensed and the transaction is recorded in the
main Computer Services Center (CSC) computer. Working on the new Trump “dollars for data” system, CSC divine being Lydia Lorenzin
released a printout of the heaviest users and locations. The David’s Onion will print a “Top Five” list of administrators,
faculty, and students each week.

Religion professor Trent Foley topped the list for administrators and faculty this week. “They installed one right outside my door,
and I was just trying to get the hang of it,” said Foley. “I passed all of them out in
class.” Puppet President John Kuykendall also made the list with 17: “I was walking home from the Commons one night
and tripped and scraped my forehead. Those were the worst damn band-aids I’ve ever used!” Political science professor Mary Thornberry
hit the charts with 15 condoms this week.“Just didn’t want men to sweep all the top spots!” she said. The
student list was somewhat skewed. Sources advised us to ignore John Hutchinson’s impressive 93 total: “He’s just showing off,” said
Leslie Urban. “That’s big thinking, though,” said Trump. “I like thinking big. If you're going to be thinking anyway, you
might as well think big.” Likewise, it was revealed that John Engel merely walked around with condoms on his fingers
and toes. “No, really, try it,” he urged. “It’s a really great feeling, I mean it!” Spencer House president M.K.
Myatt said at a press conference that the house’s card had been stolen by Hods and that they weren’t paying
for any of them.

1. Trent Foley............... 2nd Chambers
2. Poly Sci account ...... Boris... Baxter Davidson Room
3. John Kuykendall........ Richardson
4. Mary Thomberry ....... 3rd Chambers
5. Will Terry ............... Belk

Students:
1. John Hutchinson ....... 93 .......... varied
2. PiKA account ............ 70 .......... house dispenser
3. John Engel ............... 60 .......... Phi Hall
4. ATO account ............ 58 .......... Chambers elevator
5. Spencer account ....... 55 .......... varied off-campus

SHOCKING: David's plans to gut Chambers! Chambers into his private summer home! “I want the whole place gutted out,” said
Trump. “I see grand possibilities here. I’m not sure if I want to add a fourth and fifth floor yet
or not. I might feel a little cramped with a mere three stories.”

New college czar
By SAM MALONE

Yesterday, Donald Trump, the new owner of Davidson College, announced plans for the conversion of Chambers into his private summer
home. Soon after Trump acquired the college he began looking for a location for his own residence. “I had just
sold a mansion in Mexico City, and needed somewhere to spend the third week in June,” said Trump. The President’s
house was quickly thrown out of the running. “It was just too small,” commented Trump. “I like to think big.
If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.” Apparently, Belk came in a close second,
but, as Trump said, “I liked the idea of living in a replica of Thomas Jefferson’s famed Monticello. I especially
enjoy the fact that it is about three times bigger than the original. I like to think big.”

“I think the balcony off the third floor professors’ lounge was the clincher, though,” said Trump. He likes the idea
of standing out on the balcony and giving speeches while students, professors, and administrators watch from below, “sort of like
the Pope,” said Trump. “The Pope is big. Real big. I like thinking big. If you’re going to think at
all you might as well think big. Just thinking about standing up there while thousands of adoring fans watch from
below gives me a rush,” said Trump. He says he absolutely can’t wait to try it out. “I can’t believe
I never thought of this before,” he said.

Costs of this huge undertaking are as of yet unavailable. “It'll cost a hell of a lot,” said Trump, “a
hell of a lot.” Some of the plans for Chambers have already been discussed, and renovation will soon be underway.
Love Auditorium will be converted into a huge ballroom. “I’m not sure if I’ll ever use it,” said Trump, “but
I want it to look nice. I’m thinking about lining the walls with oriental rugs at the moment.” Perkins Auditorium
is going to be the location of Trump’s big personal suite. He commented, “It’s nice and big. I like big.”
Some modifications could include a removable ceiling for nighttime star gazing. Trump said that he wasn’t too much into “this
nature thing,” but he thought it sounded like a quaint idea.

One of the most controversial changes Trump has in mind is the removal of the Chambermaids. “They’re just not up
to date!” he said. He plans to replace them with dollar signs, the word “Trump” or new maids that would
be more scantily clad. “Nothing that is gratuitously pornographic, however,” he assured The David’s Onion. “A combination of the three
might not be a bad idea either,” he added.

THE DAVID’S ONION
May 3, 1989
