_ Features — Just can’t wait for Spring Break
By TOBY TRUOG

Hey! Over here! You’ve found it: the annual what’s-everybody-doing-for-Spring-Break article. Every year some bozo does this thing. We read about where and think about how much. All year long we live the definition of “student.” Most of us anyway. Up all night. Spend as little as possible. Work hard and party harder. Why are we so infatuated with a week in March? Why spend so much money and energy in the pursuit of an exciting Spring Break?

Vacations to Florida beaches and other semi-exotic locales might be a reflection of our desire to learn—you know, that adventuresome spirit that miraculously emerges as soon as notebooks and ballpoints are stashed in the desk. After all, everybody’s got a fascination with the fantastic, the unbelievable, the amazing, the beautiful. Where would Geraldo, Sally, and Phil be without such curiosity? Or maybe it’s just that we have more money than we know what to do with. That’s what sophomore David McKnight said, but the girl who slugged him one didn’t think so. McKnight will go home to Farmville, N.C. over break, to have his wisdom teeth pulled.

Sophomore Jenny McDonald said, “People might think that this will be their last chance to really take a good long vacation. They think that vacations don’t happen regularly in the real world.” McDonald will travel to Arizona to have a look at the Grand Canyon and make a tour of the desert. Fifty percent of the people I spoke with said that they would be traveling to Florida. “It’s just what we’re expected to do,” said sophomore Fernando Leyva. “All the movies like Spring Break led me to believe that’s what we were supposed to do.” Fernando is going to New Orleans as the percussionist for the Davidson Wind Ensemble.

Group trips to the sunshine state are extremely popular among Davidsonians. Students find that Spring Break can be an excellent opportunity to spend time with friends. Several folks are taking their friends to meet mom and dad and to do the “hometown thing.” They plan to pack their time away from school with movies, parties with high school friends, lots of sleep, good food, and visits to area attractions. Freshmen Mary Russ and Jackie Carberry are traveling via the Eastern Seaboard from Charlotte to Washington, D.C., to Hilton Head, S.C. During their thirty hours riding in the car, they will stop to visit family and friends. According to the responses I got, relatively few people have really thought about it.

See BREAK! page 7

Student artists prepare
By KATHERINE MALLORY

Two student artists will display their senior exhibitions this month in the college Union Gallery. Margot Mims and Michael D. Schill, studio art majors, will show etchings, acrylics, watercolors, crayon works, and collage. Mims’ show will run from March 5-17, and Schill’s from March 28-April 14.

Mims will show 15 pieces that she created this school year. She is looking forward to the public’s reaction to this, her first show ever. Some of her work is abstract, some figurative, and some neither. She is experimenting with different types of material right now, but says she enjoys crayon. “I like the line the crayon gives as opposed to something like oil pastels, but I’m interested mostly in colors and exploring the relationships between them,” she said.

Mims is interested in artists such as Wassili Kandinsky and Arshile Gorky, and in techniques such as Degas’ pastels and the energy of line in Matisse. Most significantly though, she has been influenced by the variety of line and the color relationships of the Mannerists. Mims is pleased with her show and plans in a year or two to work with a magazine or a museum. Although not sure how she wants to use her major in the future, she does want to stay in the art world.

Senior exhibits are curriculum requirements for studio art majors at Davidson. Mims believes Davidson asks a lot of its student artists. “Any liberal arts school is a hard place to do art because it’s demanding in so many other areas, and many people don’t take art that seriously,” she said.

Schill will display no more than ten paintings. All are acrylic, though some combine collage with acrylic. He describes his work as a combination of abstract and loose figurative, using bright colors and large-scale surfaces. His display, which gathers work from his four years at Davidson, shows Schill has been creative with his materials as well as with his brush. He has used unstretched and stretched canvas and has experimented with a burlap sack, two drop cloths, and two paper bags. “I like using stuff.

Sarah Pederson tries her hand with the new dryers in Watts. Photo by Alex Hayden

College graced with spankin’ new washers and dryers
By DAVID SCOTTDying washing machines of basement Watts have been put to rest. Of the four old washers, three have been replaced by new Maytag Commercials, and one new dryer has been added. One of the old washers remains. An SGA committee headed by Senior Chuck Crews and Sophomore Ingrid Love requested the new machines from head of student services Carleton Pritchard. Crews stated that the new washers should be a great improvement over the dinosaurs that were in use, but he also hopes that more facilities could be established in the Knox, Akers, and Irwin area or at the senior apartments. He further stated that the best of the old washers had been removed while the one that was left was in poor condition. A survey done in a class of professor of political science Tom Kazee revealed that one-third of the women on campus wash all their own clothes. Another third only uses the campus laundry part of the time. Ten percent of males were found to wash their own clothes. Considering such numbers, see WASHERS, page 7.

For senior shows, I find around me,” he said about his innovations. Schill is interested in the New Imagists of the 80s, such as Anselm Kiefer and what he refers to as the “crude style” of Jean Charles Blais. Two Davidson graduates, Tory Hyatt and Paul Kosmos, have also made an impression on him. Schill has always been interested in art and wants to “continue to explore visual problems.” This is Schill’s third show, and all have been this year. The first included works completed last year, when he was JYA in France. The second was “Arnold’s Erumpant Art Exhibit,” a student-organized exhibition held in the ATO house.

By RICHARD C. JONES

Senior Bill Hartman visited St. Augustine’s historic Spanish fort on a vacation in Florida. While touring the United States’ first fort he overheard someone question a cluster of hovering seagulls. His eavesdropping resulted in the title of his current art exhibit’s central piece, Jonathan, Is That You? Although the structure of the work’s central shape reminds one of a standard Jean Arp biomorphic figure, the texture of this oil pastel is a departure from Arp. Hartman, like many young artists, borrows from an established artist, in this case—Hans Hofmann. The reference to Arp is intentionally blatant. Jonathan, Is That You? parodies Arp’s repetition of trite forms in search of a new mythology—like the overheard tourist who, with a playful inquiry, searches for the most legendary seagull.

The exhibit’s major “message” piece is also its best, Conestoga Unsettling. A combination medium of acrylic and sakrete, Conestoga Unsettling addresses a fundamental aspect of American consciousness: manifest destiny. The painted sculpture offers a symbolic representation of early American land destruction in the push to the Pacific. Hartman constructs a visual metaphor for the connection between the land and the body. Just as early settlers stretched the canvas of their prairie ships at the cry of “Westward ho!” Hartman’s canvas swells to expose a festering underbelly of bloodied flesh and ripped muscle. The surface of the work is an inverted, silent landscape with a trademark tear. The tear resembles skin peeled from a seething wound. The piece carries a touch of poetic justice in the lower left-hand corner, as the organic land overcomes the settlers’ barbed wire. The work is kinetic and void of subtlety. Conestoga Unsettling’s major negative point is its escape from varied interpretation.

The show’s two weakest works are Untitled (1988) and Sprechstimme. Although Untitled explores the connection between landscape and body like Conestoga Unsettling, the work is problematic. Hartman’s landscape for Untitled is influenced by abstract expressionism and overlaid by cut-out figures. The foreground blocks the viewer’s experience with the background. The artist’s intent to lend representation to abstraction in a three-dimensional way fails. Although Hartman scores points for the attempt to combine two concepts in a creative way, the piece needs to be one or the other, abstract or representational.

The etching Sprechstimme, a German operatic term for speech-singing, presents a living room bombarded with sensory information from a television, a painting, and a lamp. The etching’s conventionality is its failure. When confronting the merits of art over mass media, the juxtaposition of a painting with a TV is a cliché.

The overall impression of Hartman’s exhibition is an entertaining success. Hartman pleases with a great deal of humor—the decision to include a 1972 crayon drawing, the lithograph Where Are You Rapunzel?, the label “In case of fire objet trouvé” (found object) next to the fire extinguisher. Hartman jabs at established art and refuses to take himself too seriously. Furthermore, his strength in several mediums from lithograph to acrylic prompts the visitor of Hartman’s exhibit to join with the artist in asking, “Bill, is me you?” Hartman’s work will be on display until Spring Break.