-aint-

profs pan

The three faculty members of the Advisory Council on College Issues have released a comprehensive report on Davidson College’s sale to Donald Trump. The report agrees with Davidson’s trustee committees in their decision to sell the college, but with an important condition. If Trump “promises to support the values of Davidson, it is a step in the right direction,” the report says. “But if the trustees intend to abandon Davidson’s traditional values, we believe this decision will have to be reconsidered.” Trump’s stress on financial goals at the cost of academic excellence contradicts Davidson’s purpose in a big way. “I like thinking big,” said Trump, “If you’re going to think, you might as well think big.”

The three faculty on the council authored the report: assistant professor of economics David Martin, assistant professor of religion Trent Foley, and associate professor of history Peter Krentz, who chaired the council. Reaction to the six-page report was favorable, according to faculty members. “I thought the committee report was a good one,” said associate professor of political science Tom Kazee. “It was carefully researched. It was as exhaustive a look at the issue as we've seen.” Assistant professor of economics Chris Bell found the numbers in the report to be “eye-opening.”

“I had never realized how much money Trump actually had on hand,” he said, referring to Trump’s $150 million cash purchase of the college. “But if he refuses to spend money on benefiting the college academically, then we should fight him. He can’t just waltz into this Mecklenburg County pig path and do what he wants.”

Reaction to the report was not entirely favorable. Trump characterized the committee members, particularly Martin, as “frustrated tycoons” and questioned the faculty’s authority to pass judgment on financial affairs. “What right does the faculty have to recommend anything concerning the college? They’re not qualified.”

Trump said through his lawyers that the faculty’s intrusion was “unfair, and I’m not even sure it’s legal. Nobody pushes me around, you understand? I don’t want to have to litigate, but nobody is going to push me around.”

David, the Friendly Ghost: Religion professor David Kaylor proudly displays a copy of Donald Trump’s newest book, which he “edited.” Kaylor’s fee from the book is estimated at a cool $3 million. The mild-mannered pedagogue is taking early retirement from Trump University to build a church in Central America. “I plan to pattern it after the Calvary Church in Charlotte,” he said.

“That’s a big place, isn’t it,” said Trump. “I like thinking big,” he said. “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big. Just be sure to put in some waterfalls.”

The Kaylors have been swift in preparing for this new vocation. Kaylor has been taking crying lessons downtown, and Mrs. Kaylor has been spotted shopping for air-conditioned doghouses.