“AAHHHH!”

Terrified UNCC students fall to their deaths in a testing accident on the new Trump Thriller Ride. The students were
paid a subminimum training wage to try the new ride out. “That’s a big mess,” said Don Trump. “I like
thinking big, but this is ridiculous!” he said. “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think
big, but this will take forever to clean up!”

TRUMP MOVES

By PRINCESS TAMMY

The lake campus facilities have been drastically expanded over the past few days under the new ownership.

The caretaker’s house has been destroyed and replaced by Lac de Norman, a new luxury hotel featuring scenic views, fabulous
decor, and fantastic dining facilities. Guests will fork over the modest sum of $1,000 per night for this exquisite experience.

While the guests may stay at the hotel at night, the fun of the newly relocated Heritage USA theme park
awaits them during the day. Water slides, made famous by Jerry Falwell in his fundraising drives, are accompanied by gorgeous
tree-lined park settings and Tammy Faye’s Beauty Shop, otherwise known as The Pancake House. New attractions include The Jessica Ride
and The Church Lady Meets the Bakkers. Donald Trump bought the park from Stephen Mernick, who sold it in order
to buy a bagel bakery in Toronto.

The “Trump Princess,” one of the world’s most luxurious private yachts, was recently brought by tractor-trailer caravan to Lake Norman.
The $29 million boat will serve as Trump’s personal office during his visits to Trump University. The entire energy of
the McGuire nuclear power plant is used to operate this boat, which is 282 feet long.

The present staff of the lake campus has been promoted to higher positions. According to John Freeman, current caretaker of
the lake campus, “Trump has personally assigned me to the task of anchoring the Princess whenever it comes in to
dock.”

As for the amusement park and hotel, former Davidson College faculty members have been enlisted in upper-level positions. “I get
to stamp the hands of visitors who plan on returning later in the day,” former Dean of Students Will Terry
said.

Former librarian Kelly Wood beamed, “I make reservations and check out guests.”

“I operate the lever that makes the merry-go-round go ‘round,” said former physics professor Wolfgang Christian.

Other former Davidson College staff members sold cotton candy, made beds, left mints on nightstands, and cleaned toilets. Some performed
all of these tasks at the same time.

The new complex is an integral part of Trump’s master plan for Trump University. When asked why, he responded, “I
like thinking big. If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big.”

THE DAVID’S ONION
May 3, 1989
