Rights for Pumpkins! page 3

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 8

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, November 1, 1989

Baker Arena brings new ticket policy

Students must get tickets in advance

By JOHN BURNS

The ticket policy for the 1989-90 basketball season and beyond was recently released, outlining the seats available to students, faculty,
and staff. Reactions to the policy have been mixed at best, and many people have harsh criticism for the plan.
Some students say they feel they are being shunted aside to make room for wealthy contributors who may not even
attend most of the games.

Shawn O’Rourke and Sandy Smith, managers in the ticket office, argued that this was not the case. “We're trying to
be fair to everyone involved,” said O’Rourke. “The students and the season ticket holders all need to be treated fairly.
There are going to be a lot of changes for everyone because of the new building.”

Smith, who is beginning his first year at Davidson after a stint at Virginia Tech, showed his frustration by saying,
“No matter how hard we try to appease people, you're going to piss someone off. Everyone wants a front row
seat.”

Under the new policy, students must pick up tickets at the ticket office the day before all home games between
7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Students are given seats on a first-come, first-serve basis in the designated student section.

The design of the seats in the new Baker Arena prevents open admission, the seating method used in Johnston Gym,
because every section is divided into individual seats.

“We have 1,324 lower level chairback seats and 2,200 ‘bum seats’ on each side in the bleachers,” said O’Rourke. “That
means we sell over 6,000 individual seats. We can’t have people sitting anywhere they want to.”

Students are seated in what amounts to half of the lower level side facing the home bench. This gives students
340 seats on the lower level. Smith pointed out that that is more than any other single group. “Remember,” he
said, “there are only as many seats on the bottom level as we had on one side of Johnston Gym,
and you guys get 340 of them.”

This lower level section is for Davidson students only. No non-Davidson guests will be allowed. “We thought that was only
fair,” he stated.

If students do not request all of the 1,100 upper level seats that are reserved by the deadline, the ticket
office will begin to sell them to the general public. “But we will never sell the bottom seats,” Smith said.

There are also large sections set aside for season ticket holders and corporate sponsors, as well as the visiting team’s
fans and the families of players and coaches (according to NCAA regulations). The public and faculty and staff are left
to split one side section and both ends behind the goals. Faculty and staff who wish to use their complementary
tickets can only sit in the upper level on the far left. They may purchase lower level seats for half
price.

Smith stressed that no one will be unhappy with the seats on the upper level. “Don’t use the term ‘nosebleed
seats.’ I hate that word! There are no bad seats in this arena. It is a beautiful building.”

When asked why students couldn’t just show their I.D.s at the gate and receive a ticket stub, O’Rourke pointed to
auditing procedures. “We have to know how many seats we fill with paying customers and how many we fill with
complementary tickets. When you get your seat, we scratch your name off the list until we fill the section. We
do this with football and with games at the Coliseum. It’s strictly an auditing problem.”

See TICKETS, page 2

Belk Arena
Faculty & Staff Students
Faculty & Staff
Pep Band
General Admission
General Admission
Students
General Admission
General Admission
Visitors Home
Handicapped Handicapped
Visiting Wildcat Club
Season Tickets Season Tickets

Davidson names Watson Fellowship finalists

These four students were chosen from a group of 37 applicants to represent Davidson College in the competition for Watson
Fellowships on the national level. Gates G., (left), plans to study golf in Japan, Australia, and Great Britain; Muadi Mukenge
hopes to research the integration of African music (soca, zouk, and Congolese) into Western musical styles; Jonathan Darsey wants to
trace the movement toward increased political and economic freedom in Spain, Mexico, and Nicaragua; Katherine MacDonald plans to investigate neuroscience
research in Europe and South America.

Photo by Gary Wheeler
