Friday, November 17, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Racism should be left out of athletics

To the Editors:

Sunday night, November 2, marked the beginning of the intramural basketball season. The first round of the pre-season tournament opened
this year's season with a great deal of excitement. It also marked the return of flaring tempers and aggressive play
inherent in the IMAC tradition. As usual, the referees were the brunt of the majority of the jeers expelled by
the crowd and the fans. However, there was one game in which the referee was the brunt of ridiculous accusations
and criticism that should never be allowed on the basketball floor: racism.

The teams were BSC, which consisted of both white students and black students, and a group of football affiliates, which
also consisted of blacks and whites. The referee made a call against one of the black BSC players, who proceeded
to complain to the referee. The referee told the player to "shut up." At this time, another BSC player tried
to defend his teammate by declaring to the referee, "you can't tell him to shut up." This declaration was followed
by another BSC player's declaration: "He thinks he can. He's white." It was after this remark that one of the
white BSC players, embarrassed and angered by the situation, left the gym.

This whole situation is ridiculously childish. I would hope that any frustrations concerning black interests that have arisen during the
past few months would not infect the only sincere form of competitive athletics that most students here have. In my
opinion, IMAC players should take heed to what Terry Holland said in his remarks at Saturday's Homecoming festivities and leave
racism out of athletics. It doesn't belong anywhere, but it especially doesn't belong in sports.

Philip J. Brooks, ‘90

Why we read Puckett

Being abroad in a foreign country, the only connection we have with our motherland is our institutional periodical, the beloved
Davidsonian. We await each enlightening issue with bated breath, especially the informed, heartfelt tips and anecdotes from one of your
stellar columnists, M. Damon Puckett.

Puckett’s articles are not “hooey.” Mark, contrary to your beliefs, you have “altered the flux of our existence,” and we
thank you, love you, and follow you for that. You are our good health guru. In closing, we would like
to applaud Mr. Puckett for his unfaltering desquamation of the archaic dinosaurs of health ignorance. Truly, he is the poet
laureate of the health world. Mark feels the pulse of Davidson, and is not afraid to let us know that
it’s

Mr. Puckett has kept us on the straight and narrow path of health consciousness, preventing us from tumbling headlong into
the abyss after valley of dietary delusion. He is the light of a health heaven. We, like Mr. Puckett, are
trying to “pump sunshine into [our] ears, in hopes that it reaches [our] brain[s].” Unfortunately, our endeavors are occasionally thwarted
by wax buildup.

It seems that throngs of our fellow indolent, Duckhead-clad Davidson students have reacted negatively to Mr. Puckett’s “sardonic castigations.” We,
in contrast, can sense the true import of this man’s mission. Undeniably, Mr. Puckett is the poet laureate of the
health world.a little too high. - Mark, we believe that in the end your innate sprightliness will triumph over the
lassitude of Davidson College. Hang in there buddy, we're pullin’ for you. As our mothers used to say, “I believe
that in the end your innate sprightliness will triumph over the lassitude of others. Hang in there, I’m for you.”

Even as we digest the first tidbits of each article, our eyes open and we begin to see, through the
parting clouds of our innate sprightliness. Occasionally thwarted by some, we continue to persevere.

“Have you read Puckett’s article?” “Yes.”

Bob, Eve, and Jantie—JYA, Würzburg, and classes—are a respite from Davidson's generally homogeneous population. Discovering what opinions these individuals hold
on certain issues is even more interesting.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Growing beyond Davidson

Have you ever had to pay your own housing bill? Ever been bewildered while in a foreign airport where loudspeakers
announce directions with a speed much quicker than your language lab tapes? Has anyone ever tried to pickpocket you? Ever
had to take a taxi home from an almost deserted train station at 3 a.m.? How about doing without a
car, television, hot water, or a hair dryer for several months? These things might happen eventually, but will the majority
of Davidson students be able to cope?

JYA. Davidson-in-Washington. The Philadelphia Center. The Kenya Connection. An internship in an unfamiliar town. Education beyond the confines of Davidson’s
small-town atmosphere. These are opportunities to experience the real world, because believe it or not, Davidson is not it. The
real world does not have an Honor Code or faculty advisors. Nor does everyone smile and say “hello.”

The main reason we students need to take advantage of off-campus experiences is to practice fending for ourselves and to
test our limits. The majority of students here come from comfortable families and perhaps have not had to worry about
obtaining housing, budgeting, paying bills, making travel arrangements, or protecting themselves in an urban setting such as Washington, D.C. Now
is the time.

Another primary reason for taking a break from Davidson is to see the world. More and more students are doing
that, as is evident in the sharp increase in JYA applications. Are students seeking an escape? Maybe, because the chance
to live in a new environment and to study an area of particular interest is appealing. And encountering a new
set of people—of all colors, occupations, religions, and classes—is a respite from Davidson's generally homogeneous population. Discovering what opinions these
individuals hold on certain issues is even more interesting.

Now is the time to make applications. Don’t miss out on a good chance.

13 weeks? 12 weeks? 15 weeks? A year? Start thinking now about how long you want to study abroad because...

WE WANT TO KNOW!

Wait by your phone for the official Davidsonian survey after Thanksgiving break.
