Wednesday, December 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Women's IMAC champs given inferior coverage compared to men

Dear Editors:

I am writing to ask that you please check your facts prior to having your articles published in The Davidsonian. I am speaking directly to the “IMACtion” article regarding the flickerball season finals.

This year the Insatiables was not a Rusk team but rather a team comprised of staff members, most of whom were alumni, and one student. Our alias was the Old Ladies, as the staff team has been known in the past; and anyone present at a single game would have recognized us by either name. Also, the claim that we outscored other teams 71-0 was an error; because I turned in many of our scores myself, I am not sure how IMAC records could support your claim. Even if that were the case, a simple phone call would have revealed a different picture, for in one game alone we outscored a team 54-0.

The incorrect facts in your “IMACtion” article lead me to my other concern, which is the space devoted to the women’s finals compared to that devoted to the men’s finals. In order for women’s sports at Davidson to achieve the level of acceptance and support that men’s sports receive (a goal to which Davidson claims to be committed), organizations such as The Davidsonian must accept the challenge of seeing this equality achieved. A reporter for The Davidsonian has the unique responsibility of communicating appropriately to the college community this message. The incorrect facts and disproportionate attention given to the women’s finals in the IMAC article serve to communicate the persistent lack of interest on the part of the college community in women’s sports, and furthermore, in the role of women at Davidson.

Sincerely,
Ann G. Porges, ‘85
Alumni Relations Assistant Director

You're smart

— tc

get your Geography, Entertainment and Sports & Leisure wedges all in one turn.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Semesters? Bah, humbug!

'Tis the season to do seven weeks of work in one. Stuff the stockings with two or three 10-15 page papers and throw in four or five exams. Feeling merry yet?

Seniors and juniors should still remember a schedule that put exams at Thanksgiving, followed by a whole week off, followed by two weeks of Christmas spirit and decorating and yes, even partying. The last week before break was devoted to tests and papers so that the break was still really a break without a large amount of schoolwork hanging overhead.

The semester system has effectively squelched the Christmas flame for students (and probably faculty as well). Most students will be so worn down by December 21 when exams end that they'll barely have time to get home and catch up on their sleep before the 25th.

Christmas spirit is certainly not the only reason for choosing a three-term program over a semester system for Davidson. But for a small, Presbyterian liberal arts college, it’s one that should be considered.

Still a nickel

It’s important to appreciate the small things in life, especially those that add up to very big things.

One such small blessing is the library's copying charge of a nickel, as opposed to the 10-15 cent charge found at most other libraries. One student who recently went to UNC-Chapel Hill to do research ended up spending $24 just in Xeroxing costs (at 15 cents a copy).

At the end of the term when money is tight and assignments are overwhelming, a nickel a page makes the work just a little more manageable. Good bargains are hard to find.

Survivors

In the days following David Blalock’s suicide, each of us in the Davidson College community struggles to reach some kind of understanding of how and why he or any individual would choose to take his or her own life.

In a sense, David’s death has made the rest of the campus suddenly aware of its status as survivors. We have been reminded that to some extent, living is a choice we have made rather than simply a given. As we reflect on the loss we have suffered by David's death, let us also pause to appreciate the things that make life something so sacred that we would not only choose it, but would use every ounce of strength to fight to preserve it.

During this period of grief, we must offer whatever comfort we can give to David’s family and close friends, his survivors who are faced with the task of carrying on. And we must also pray that God will provide what comfort we cannot.
—jlh