Friday, November 17, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

LANDLORD, from page 1

"The committee," said Wood, "found that Burton did not fit the criteria." He doesn’t have any children and Habitat homes are usually built for families. Yet Wood also said that Habitat offered to negotiate with the college to see what could be done about Burton’s housing situation. The college is not officially involved with Habitat.

Both Wood and Craig expressed frustration over the fact that Burton’s home had been condemned. "We don’t mind the college coming to us saying that they know of a person who is desperate for housing," said Wood. The problem was the fact that the college had allowed the house to reach a state of total dilapidation. "They don’t choose to use their finances to keep the housing up," said Craig. She speculated that the college might not have put the money into the house originally because it wanted to get out of low-income housing.

The decision was finally made to renovate the house to meet building standards. "Kicking Herman out was unacceptable," said Hoke. "The whole thing rested on what he wanted to do." Hoke said that the cost of repair was estimated at $30,000. "It should be somewhat cheaper than the estimate, since we’re doing the work ourselves," said Hoke. Director of Facilities Planning Grover Meetze refused to comment on the situation.

Asked about how much it will cost the college to renovate the house, Maintenance Supervisor Allan Thompson said, "We just went to work and are still buying materials, so I don’t know how much it will cost."

The college does not have a definite policy which details its role as a landlord, as Wood pointed out to the trustees in a speech a year ago. He spoke about the first family accepted by Davidson's Habitat program, former Eden Street tenants: "Brenda lives with two of her children and four others in a two-bedroom house. Brenda has had a stable work record at the college on the housekeeping staff for over 13 years. Last year during one month in the winter, her gas bill was $172. Brenda rents her home from Davidson College. You may want to look into that."

The trustees have started investigating Davidson’s housing policy. In the 1989 Financial Report, the market value of Davidson’s faculty and staff housing investments was $3,744,309. By gifts or purchase, Davidson owns property on Concord and Lorimer roads. President Kuykendall said that a task force has been appointed to study the entire question of Davidson’s role in providing housing for staff and faculty.

"We're not intentionally in low-income housing," said Kuykendall. "It’s pure happenstance since those lots were acquired through a gift. We don’t need to be involved." Kuykendall also mentioned, however, that the college treasures the idea of a residential college community.

K.C.

Davidson's Ideal Outdoors Store

CAMPING EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTALS
CASUAL AND TECHNICAL CLOTHING
HIKING BOOTS AND SANDALS
TRAVEL GEAR * CANOES * KAYAKS
SUNGLASSES * KNIVES
BOOKS * MAPS * ACCESSORIES

892-1848
I-77 TO EXIT 28 (HWY 73 WEST) ON TORRENCE CHAPEL ROAD IN SHOPS ON THE GREEN, CORNELIUS, NC
OPEN: MON-FRI 10-8 SAT 10-5

$$$

MEDICAL SCHOOL

WHO WILL PAY YOUR EXPENSES?

The Navy will, because the Navy has a medical school scholarship program for you. So you can devote full time to your studies and let the...Navy take care of the finances. The real benefit to you is that the program pays all of your tuition and fees, reimburses you for books and supplies, and gives you a stipend. If you have been accepted to or you are already attending medical school, you can start your application for a Navy scholarship now. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL NOW... NAVY OFFICER CHIEF NORM ROGERS IN RALEIGH AT 1-800-662-7419 TO FIND OUT MORE... TWO-, THREE-, AND FOUR-YEAR SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE You are Tomorrow. You are the Navy.

Beyond Davidson

East Germany tears down the wall
By CAROL GATEWOOD

BERLIN: Last week East Germany opened up its borders to West Germany, allowing its citizens free passage to the West without any restrictions. Germans gathered along the Berlin Wall and engaged in a massive celebration as they scaled one of the last symbols of the old Iron Curtain. Many East Germans spent the weekend shopping and enjoying Western luxuries to which they are unaccustomed; their government even opened up more passages along the wall to accommodate the traffic of citizens.

Egon Krenz, the new Communist Party leader in East Germany, stands behind this open action in the hope that free movement to the West will encourage East Germans to merely visit and not emigrate. Before the country lifted its borders last week, more than 200,000 East Germans had left permanently. The Communist Party in East Germany also announced that it will totally restructure its Council of Ministers and that a Party Congress will be held in December to rewrite political goals.

EL SALVADOR: On Sunday rebels in El Salvador launched a new offensive against the U.S.-backed government in the capital city of San Salvador and other points throughout the country. Several hundred people were missing or injured, and the New York Times reported on Monday that at least 78 had been killed. San Salvador was placed under a curfew. The rebels’ attack came after talks between the right-wing government and the FMLN broke down due to the Oct. 31 bombing of a leftist labor confederation. A rebel commander admitted that the offensive was partly an act of retaliation, and stated: “This government has shown it wants to escalate the dirty war and we will meet them head on.” Though the rebels lack military superiority through firepower and other supplies, as reported by the New York Times, they are considered to be one of the best mobilized armies in Latin America.

CHINA: Deng Xiaoping, the 85-year-old leader of Communist China, resigned from his last official post in the government. He stepped down from his chairmanship of the military body of the Communist party, and Jiang Zemin was named as his successor. Deng’s resignation came sooner than Western analysts had expected, but it was probably done in an effort to ensure a stable succession. Jiang was relatively unknown until he was selected to head the Communist party five months ago. It is expected that if Deng dies before more appointments are made, Jiang will not fare well in the transfer of power; Jiang lacks military experience and does not have internal allies to help him in a power struggle.

THE NATION’S NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED BY GANNETT ON SALE NOW! THE LOFT On the Commons East Balcony Tues. - 4 p.m. J: 10-7: 10 p.m.