Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

LINCOLN MINSTER

Lincoln floats fabled in the clouds
When seen or conceived
From city gates sagged with centuries:

Lindum it was when kings with armies
And jeweled smiles spun yarns
From the blue loom of myth.

Halberds sang praise to the One who smiled
At the crimes of his own children—
Their God: obese Don swathed in seal furs
Drenched in rank millennial ambergris.

Castle bells ring dusk and drown my flesh
In liquid gold.

To reach the cathedral I ride inside
The yellow spheres of sound.

The minster emerges,
And with it the kings and armies and halberds,
And those to whom Christ’s blood flowed like rain from the eaves.
The armies are memories in stone.

But as the hill bends below you, becoming a valley,
Becoming impossible,
Tears of martyrs will soak your shoes:
In May Christ comes heifer-like
To Perpetua, milk-plump and fresh from childbirth.
She fumbles for a pin to fix her hair, then
Finds the face of God red-limned in the arena dust.

—JMG

---

Mark soars toward the high-dive teeth first and to
get reacquainted. Connecticut is an excellent

Laundry Bag

We stop. My back creaks as the aftershock
machine sprints down my spine. Sleep cheap.
crumpled up. I should be so lucky. I don’t know
jolts, or the relentless pressure of my cotton-knit
be unbearable, I suspect. This lobster trap always
not wash his sleeping bag, or is it Mark, whose
not Justin’s fault. Oh well, let’s not point fingers.

I almost forgot. It’s time to water the palm
my abdomen surges unexpectedly. Zero minus.
Mark and Justin and countless others hurdle
freedom. My world of darkness spins elliptically
stars remain. Disorientation complicates my
buttocks. Snowy liquid from the minefield cascades
pack the seat belt this time. Seams and

squashes the tube underfoot. I go splat again
swimming pool. No lifeguards. I manage to stretch
excess water-weight. Skyscrapers move closer.
Skyscrapers sink back into the ground. I reach:

though, before we fly non-stop to a gyroscopic
of sweat are sucked off tangentially, and we
back together again; even if the circumstances
room. A horse manure front blows in from the
they’ve been trampled, shattered. Mark stands
for everybody. Reagan herds us into the corral. It
need them? Justin goes first. He refuses the blindfold.
The candlestick maker lowers his arm.
Justin emerges looking good as new.
Thom is next. Always the journalist, he
spins the barrel; the procedure repeats.
gonna be last. Mark asks
for a cigarette, but the filter sticks in
lips, puts his thumb over the right nostril.
Mark is forcibly removed and told
encouraged by Justin and Thom’s success.
pan, trigger-happy for rejuvenation.
phone. They didn’t tell me how hot this
melt, then evaporate. My
pours. The axeman slams down the
have melted into the armrests. He looks
Thate that ae