The Davidsonian
Wednesday, November 8, 1989

sports

Men’s soccer smashes Wofford
Avenges football's loss with an 8-0 victory; ends with 8-11-1 record
By CARTER PAYNE

Davidson 8 - Wofford 0

Playing at home last Tuesday, Davidson smashed a hapless Wofford team 8-0. The impressive aspect of the game is that
the Wildcats could easily have become complacent and reduced their play to the level of their lesser opponent, but they
did not. Instead, they kept up the intensity for the entire first half. That was more than enough time to
secure the win.

Rob Ukrop started off the rout when he blasted the ball past the Terriers’ goalkeeper for the first of his
two goals. Ukrop’s goal was followed by scores from freshman Lance Kinerk and senior Tracy Hankins. Both scores were head-ins.
The first half scoring festival continued with senior Rob Vest and freshman Glenn Smith scoring in succession to make it
5-0. Ukrop then added his second goal of the contest just before halftime.

In the second half, Vest was able to get his second goal of the game to give the Wildcats a
7-0 advantage. Later in the half, senior Robert Avinger snared his first goal of the season in a nicely aimed
penalty kick for the final Davidson score.

Because of the offensive onslaught, the Wildcat defense did not see much action. But when the ball somehow managed to
find its way into Wildcat territory, defenders Cliff Castelloe, Lance Long, and senior Ross Saldarini combined to quickly send it
in the other direction. Coach Charlie Slagle was able to substitute liberally throughout the latter part of the game, and
everyone on the team contributed to the victory.

Liberty 1 - Davidson 0

Thursday, the Wildcats played their second home game of the week. It was a cold, wet afternoon that caused inadequate
field conditions and a low-scoring game. For the first part of the game, Davidson managed to keep the ball at
the Liberty end of the field with rugged defensive play by Scott Poisson, Lance Long, and Ross Saldarini, while Tracy
Hankins and Pete Cobb played aggressively on the offensive end.

Numerous shots on goal by the ‘Cats were way off the mark due mainly to poor footing on the playing
field. At the 16:04 mark, as a result of a Davidson violation, Liberty was awarded a direct kick which rocketed
past a diving Scott Zucker for what was to be the lone score of the game.

The second half resembled a football game, with multiple collisions between players from both teams. Davidson had several opportunities to
poke the ball in on corner kicks but failed to capitalize. As the final minutes of the game ticked away,
Davidson managed to keep the ball at the Liberty end of the field, but they could not elude Liberty’s extremely
quick defense when the ball got in close. Liberty hung on to win with several excellent saves by the goalkeeper.

College of Charleston 3 - Davidson 0

The soccer team finished the season on a sour note Sunday afternoon, losing at Charleston 3-0. The Wildcats came out
flat and seemed to stay that way. Things started off poorly when Charleston scored their first goal on a questionable
violation which resulted in a penalty kick. The team would fight an uphill battle from that point on.

Charleston scored again a few minutes before halftime to increase their lead to 2-0. Davidson continued to play flat in
the second half, perhaps still weary from the seven-hour ride to Charleston. In any case, the Wildcats failed to score
and allowed Charleston one last goal toward the end of the game. The ‘Cats would have liked to have ended
the season on a higher note, but they were unable to get on track from the onset of the contest.
Davidson finishes the season with an 8-11-1 record.Large Step for Davidson: Trustees Approve Scholarships for Women’s Sports

Reprinted from The Campus Chronicle

Davidson’s Board of Trustees voted at the October meeting to begin providing athletic scholarships to women in proportion to those
offered to men. The equivalent of nine full scholarships for women will be phased in during the next three years.
The decision includes the possibility of spreading the money among several sports and offering partial scholarships to more than nine
women.

Sterling Martin, acting director of athletics, said that number was decided upon based on the fact that Davidson offers 15
scholarships to men (all are used for basketball) and that participation in intercollegiate athletics is 66 percent male and 34
percent female. Martin said the trustees took action based on the recommendation of its committee on athletic policy, which is
chaired by W. Olin Nisbett II, president of Sterling Capital Management in Charlotte. Martin said the move was made to
help Davidson come into compliance with federal Title IX requirements, which state that men’s and women’s sports must receive proportional
resources in college budgets.

Though the scholarships have now been approved, no decision has been made on how they will be allocated among Davidson’s
seven women’s teams—cross country, field hockey, indoor track, outdoor track, soccer, tennis, and volleyball. Martin said the decision would be
made in consultation with women’s sports coaches, the presidential advisory council on athletics, and trustees.

Martin said division of the scholarships hinges on several considerations—possible conference affiliation, the impact scholarships may have on any single
sport, and the wishes of the coaches. He added that “there is not unanimity among the coaches on the best
way to do this.”

Betsy Pryor, field hockey coach, said the matter of conference affiliation is the driving factor. “If we get in a
conference that requires us to play women’s basketball, it would make sense to showcase it and put all our scholarships
there,” she said. But Martin admitted no decision on conference affiliation seems imminent. Pryor said that fact forces another decision.
She said, “Then the administration has to decide whether to showcase one sport or split up scholarships between several, and
that’s not a coaches’ decision.” She said she would like to have some scholarships for field hockey to attract top-quality
specialty players, such as a goalkeeper, who could be a significant asset to the team. But even all nine scholarships
in field hockey would not create a nationally competitive team, she cautioned, because of Davidson's stiff admissions requirements. As with
men’s basketball, some of the top players in the sport could not make it as Davidson students.

Diane Boettcher, soccer coach, said scholarships would be of little value to her program. “In a sport as large as
soccer, with 21 team members, one or two scholarships are not going to be a great benefit. We're competing against
the top Division I teams in the country for players, and they're full scholarship teams. I’d need more than just
a few scholarships to compete effectively.” Boettcher thinks it wiser for the college to concentrate women’s scholarships in one showcase
sport, as is done with men’s basketball. But she cautioned that scholarships in a showcase sport must be supplemented with
extra support staff and resources for that team to make it a winner.

On the other hand, track and cross-country coach Gary Andrew said he would welcome scholarships for those teams. “It would
greatly improve our program, particularly with cross-country where you only need five runners,” he said. Andrew said students who were
academically qualified and athletically gifted had been enticed by scholarships to enroll elsewhere when he could not make a similar
offer. “I would welcome the opportunity to have scholarships to offer to an athlete,” he said.

Caroline Price, women’s tennis coach, expressed mixed emotions about the decision, but says she’s leaning toward distribution of scholarships among
several teams if they are not needed for a new women’s basketball team. “Certainly even two scholarships would make a
difference in women’s tennis,” she said. Price noted that Davidson's team played even with Furman from 1981 until 1986, when
Furman began giving scholarships.

See TRUSTEES, page 111
