2 Thursday, October 19, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Duke professor of economics examines Soviet reform

By CAROL GATEWOOD

A main feature of the Dean Rusk conference on the Soviet Union last week was the address by Thomas Naylor, professor of economics at Duke University. Naylor discussed the economic reforms which President Mikhail Gorbachev has initiated through the program of perestroika. Naylor’s overall analysis suggested that Gorbachev's restructuring of the Soviet Union is only part of a long process that began before his ascent into the political light. The current changes are merely reform as opposed to a new revolution.

Great problems exist within the Soviet Union. Naylor’s comparison between those challenges and those in the United States served as a warning to U.S. policy-makers that there is something to be learned from Gorbachev's actions in the Soviet Union. Naylor initially pointed out that ideas of reform and restructuring began before former leader Brezhnev even died. When Naylor traveled to the Soviet Union in 1982, experts were studying the effects of introducing a more decentralized economic system. The standard of living in the Soviet Union had come to the point where something had to be done. With respect to Gorbachev’s new reforms, stated Naylor, opening up foreign trade is the most radical idea.

Naylor stressed the importance of mutual cooperation that both the superpowers must achieve in order for trade relations to grow. On the lack of cooperation by the U.S., Naylor said, “No one has told Congress that the Cold War is over.” He added that American sovietologists “who are still living in the 1950s” are to blame.

Overall, Gorbachev will have a lot of obstacles to overcome with his economic reforms. As Naylor pointed out, the Soviet leader is turning around a “risk-free” society that will encounter some problems when the state decentralizes and gives more power to each republic. This unraveling of supreme Soviet control has, and will, cause tensions to grow—as demonstrated by the mine strikers and unrest in the Baltic states. In response to this, Gorbachev has had to take a “non-adversarial approach,” and Naylor implied through his speech that Gorbachev is off to a good start on the road to reform.

In conclusion, Naylor outlined parallel problems which both the U.S. and Soviet Union have today, though each country operates under different ideological structures and policies. These included alienation within large companies that have developed authoritarian organization structures, injustice for the poverty-stricken, excessive militarism, economic malaise, a lack of economic competitiveness, declining international influence, war and terrorism, and aiding global development in Third World countries.

USA Today is searching for the USA’s best college students to be named to its ALL-USA Academic Team. Students selected to the first, second, and third teams will be featured in a USA Today special section in mid-January. Members of the first place team will be invited to receive their awards at a ceremony in Washington, D.C. Those interested may pick up nomination forms in the dean of students office. Nominees will be judged for outstanding individual academic endeavor; community/campus activities and leadership roles; awards, honors, and achievements.

REFORM, from page 1

John Evans, a conference participant on leave from the State Department, spoke on changing U.S./Soviet relations. He emphasized the economic importance of talking with the Soviet Union. Both countries need to apply military funds to rebuilding their economies. Only a firm relationship between the U.S. and the Soviet Union could make this possible. Citizens within the Soviet Union are intensely curious about the growing relationship with the U.S.Tass correspondent Yuri Kirilchenko has been covering stories in the U.S. for two years. He stressed the importance that Soviets put on knowing the details of U.S. life. “Our people are very anxious to read what makes this country tick,” said Kirilchenko. Other speakers at the conference included Duke University economics professor Thomas Naylor, Soviet emigre Tatyana Momonova, and Martin Shulman, chief Soviet adviser in President Jimmy Carter’s State Department.

It's Through Competition That The Quality of Our Service Is Enhanced.

FIRST CHARTER NATIONAL BANK
Davidson Office: 892-4644
Cornelius Office: 892-3233
Huntersville Office: 875-3400
Offices in Cabarrus & Rowan Counties: 786-3300
Member FDIC

USSR, from page 1

According to Williams, the reforms have a possible drawback in that “they represent reform from above by the state, not a revolution from below, and could in fact be withdrawn by a strong leader facing conservative political opposition in Moscow and rebellion in the borderlands.” With glasnost, “the Soviet Union has changed dramatically from a closed to an open society in terms of information,” said Williams. However, glasnost’s economic counterpart, perestroika, is not necessarily helped by freedom of opinion and speech. “Short-term freedoms have resulted in a worsened economic situation, complete with shortages, strikes, and rationing,” Williams stated.

Economic problems weaken Gorbachev’s efforts to pursue open trade with the West. “He appears to be willing to move from the bipolar world of Cold War Soviet-American rivalry to the multipolar world of Japanese banking, European common markets, and Chinese reconciliation,” said Williams. “But what do the Russians have to sell that we would want to buy?” Despite the fact that Gorbachev still faces some large obstacles, Williams is astounded by the leader’s accomplishments thus far. “Gorbachev the individual has accomplished far more than any of us could have guessed, or that Russian and Soviet history should have permitted,” he said.

LONELY? NEED A DATE? MEET THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE TODAY! Call DATETIME!

FREE DIET QUESTIONS???
HAPPY McCRARY
Registered Dietician
HELP WITH:
Special Health Concerns
Weight Loss or Gain
Sports Nutrition
APPOINTMENT CALL EXT. 2451
Sponsored by The Student Counseling Center
(405) 366-6335

PARIS SAILING BAHAMAS
45ft Captained Yachts
Groups of Eight
Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas
$455.00 pp. All Accommodations & Meals
SPRING BREAK HOTLINE
1-800-999-7245
CALL ANYTIME!

SPRING BREAK
Boston University International Programs
725 Commonwealth Avenue B2
Boston, MA 02215
617/353-9888

Jobs in Alaska
HIRING Men - Women
Summer/Year Round.
CANNERIES, FISHING, LOGGING, TOURISM, CONSTRUCTION
up to $600 weekly, plus FREE room and board.
CALL NOW! Call refundable.
1-206-736-0775, Ext. 1726H

LONDON WASHINGTON BOSTON UNIVERSITY
A representative from Boston University will be on campus:
INFORMATION MEETING
OCTOBER 26, 3:30 - 4:30 P.M.
CHAMBERS 212

Cruise Ship Jobs
HIRING Men - Women.
Summer/Year Round.
PHOTOGRAPHERS, TOUR GUIDES, RECREATION PERSONNEL
Excellent pay, plus FREE travel.
Caribbean, Hawaii, Bahamas, South Pacific, Mexico.
CALL NOW! Call refundable.
1-206-736-0775, Ext. 1726

The Arts + Finance/Economic Research/Management
* Human/Health Services
* Politics + Advertising/PR/Marketing
* Journalism/Broadcast/Film Media + Public Relations + Business
* Tourism * Fashion * The Arts * Government
* Politics * Business/Economics * Pre-Law
* International Relations * Journalism/Communications
* Health Fields * The Arts

Each 14-week internship program includes: 16 Boston University semester-hour credits, full-time internships, course work taught by local faculty, centrally located housing, and individualized placements for virtually every academic interest. Programs in London and Paris are offered during the spring, fall, and summer. The Washington program is offered during the fall and spring. An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution.