Features The Davidsonian Wednesday, November 8, 1989

Advice for making the most of a “complex” weekend

By JEFF REVIS

With the arrival of fall, the students of Davidson start thinking about Homecoming. For the upperclassmen, Homecoming brings memories of the great, or not so great, time they had last year. These veterans know what to expect, unlike some freshmen I talked to. To them, Homecoming is yet another new and hopefully exciting experience to have to deal with. Ignorance characterized the response I got to the question “What do you think Homecoming will be like?” Most freshmen realized that college Homecoming would be different from that of high school. However, they had no idea at all of how it would differ. One extremely knowledgeable freshman, who wisely wishes to remain anonymous, didn’t even know the day on which Homecoming would be held.

It was generally agreed upon that a date for Homecoming might be important, and yet very few even had the slightest idea who they wanted to go with. A surprisingly large number of freshmen were under the impression that the college would have a large dance. I overheard one freshman say, “If I have to rent a tux, I’m not going!” Obviously, being misinformed could be hazardous to freshman social lives.

The real information on Homecoming weekend should alleviate most freshmen fears. First and foremost, Homecoming will be the weekend of November 10-12. Davidson’s attitude towards the big weekend is pretty casual. The upperclassmen I talked to gave me the impression that Homecoming is basically a big party weekend. Their advice was to definitely get a date, take her out to a nice restaurant, and then go down to a fraternity party. Patterson Court will be filled with semi-formals and band parties. Some of the semi-formals will be “invitation only” until 11:00 p.m., when they open the parties to the rest of the campus. So bite the bullet, freshmen, and ask one of the hundreds of available females on campus. I know they’re waiting breathlessly for your call.

The Court is not the only place where things are happening Homecoming weekend. For the college, this is a monumental occasion. The long-awaited Baker Sports Complex will be dedicated at 11:45 a.m. on Saturday. The new basketball arena, natatorium, and indoor racquetball and tennis courts will officially open Saturday night with an open house and the traditional intrasquad red and black basketball scrimmage at 7 p.m. The college will also kick off its $150 million fund drive this same weekend with a black-tie dinner on Friday night.

Speaking of kickoff, the football team will play Maryland's Salisbury State University in the Homecoming game on Saturday at 2:00 p.m. The tradition is to dress up and go root for the ‘Cats. At halftime, the Homecoming Queen and her court will be chosen. The game will be an event in itself. So dressed up or not, plan on going.

The College Union will be planning some activities Homecoming weekend also. The “Weekend with a Complex” will center mostly around the Baker Sports Complex dedication. On Friday, however, the Union is sponsoring an afternoon FAC featuring food and a student band called “Pavlov’s Dogs” in the 900 Room from 3-5. Friday night, Bobby Houck, George Guise, Frank Whitaker, and Andy Ball, a group of talented alumni musicians, will play from 9-12 p.m. in the 900 Room. Also, on Saturday night, for a charge of $3 which will be donated to the Red Cross Hugo relief fund, the Union will have an all-you-can-eat dessert bar accompanying the movie Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, in the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m.

This Homecoming weekend is going to be filled with things to do. The relaxed atmosphere should help make it very enjoyable. Many alumni will return and parents and friends will visit. As one upperclassman put it, “there willbe a nice influx of people.” Hopefully, the fear of Homecoming has been put aside, replaced by that carefree partying spirit. The best advice I had was to just relax and have fun. Also, you don’t need a tux. “Red Ernie,” faculty black sheep, made others think.

By MUADI MUKENGE

While studying or socializing in the library during the past month, you may have noticed the exhibit on a certain “Red Ernie.” The man who wore a peace button tie tack is a stranger to current students, but not to faculty members. The college’s first and only Marxist professor, Ernest Patterson, retired from teaching economics in 1979, but not before he made an impact on the campus and the outside world.

“It was impossible not to know who Patterson was,” says Joe Howell, ‘64, now a real estate consultant in Washington, D.C. “He always presented the alternative argument to the status quo, challenging others to think.”

Patterson arrived in Davidson in 1957, bringing along with him ideas which were alien and unacceptable to the majority. He was an avowed Marxist, pro-civil rights, and opposed to U.S. involvement in Latin America and Vietnam. He wrote so many letters to the editor of The Charlotte Observer that he was eventually limited to one letter per month. Even those who didn’t know him personally had heard of the professor who wore a black tie with a peace symbol. He wore it during 14 years of his 22-year tenure at the college. In fact, until he retired in 1979, Patterson stuck out like a sore thumb against Davidson’s tradition-conscious and conservative ideals.

Patterson expected his views to cause controversy when he came to Davidson from the University of Alabama. “Having read about other professors [not particularly at Davidson] who took strong political and economic views, I expected this to happen,” he said recently, looking back on his professorship.

The Texas native describes himself as a Jeffersonian populist and a Marxist socialist. He believes deeply in the merits of socialism, saying, “The ideals that socialism aims to establish are also sought by the best political movements, such as democracy, communism, populism, and anarchism.” China and the Soviet Union are two countries whose governments he admires. The distaste Americans have for socialism and Marxism, he says, is caused in part by false media portrayals. Socialism is not a perfect form of government, admits Patterson, adding that all movements have stages which precede the attainment of the ideal form. Thus the use of force, such as recently occurred in China, although displeasing to him, is not surprising. “Even the United States has done it,” he stated.

Whatever his opinion, Patterson does not set out to impose his beliefs upon others. Both faculty and alumni remember Patterson for his ability to provoke thought in a humorous and non-accusatory manner. “Conservative people would read Patterson’s letters in The Charlotte Observer and get all hot and bothered, not realizing the kind and gentle person he was,” said Anthony Abbott, chairman of the English department. The same people thought it scandalous the college permitted Patterson to “tarnish” its image through his activities.

Patterson demonstrated on several occasions. Once he gathered with students in front of the town post office to protest U.S. action in Cambodia. In March 1964, Patterson was the chief speaker at a civil rights rally organized by 500 students from Charlotte-area colleges, most of them black. Approximately 100 Davidson students also participated. Howell, then a senior, organized the march and received “a stack” of hate mail for it. Patterson remembers the taunts from bystanders as the group marched through Charlotte. “I was doing something that was right,” he explains, “and had participated in such demonstrations before.”

Despite cold reception

See PATTERSON, next page