> Thursday, February 23, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  

Brenda Tapia: guiding hand behind the scenes  
By JESSICA THURBEE  

Brenda Tapia, Davidson’s assistant chaplain, is the guiding hand behind a number of campus services and programs. She is the director of the Love of Learning program for black secondary school students, a minority students counselor, and the unofficial director of minority affairs. Since former chaplain Charlie Summers became the minister of a Presbyterian church in Charlotte a year and a half ago, Tapia has juggled a host of responsibilities in the chaplain’s office as the college continues its search for a new chaplain.

Tapia has worked in counseling or administrative capacities at a state-operated institution for adolescents with emotional and behavioral problems, a program for first-offender adolescent shoplifters and their parents, a women’s hospital dealing with problem pregnancies, a private group home, and a junior business college. A Davidson native, Tapia earned a psychology degree from Howard University in Washington, D.C. She received a masters of divinity with a concentration in pastoral counseling from Johnson C. Smith Seminary at the Interdenominational Theological Center in Atlanta, Georgia.

Q. I’ve noticed the Martin Luther King posters you have up in your office. Were you active in the civil rights movement in the sixties, while you were in college?  
A. When I attended Howard...

---

Patricia's Peeves  
Photo by Alex Hayden  

Losing your cool at school  

You psych yourself up: “I’m going to talk today. No problem. All I have to do is make sure that he likes my first draft and then I’m home free. He’s bound to like this paper. He can’t hate everything I write.” You’ve been a little scared of this professor since the beginning of the semester—you’re not sure why. Maybe it’s his pointy little beard that twitches just before he demolishes your argument, or maybe it’s those awful beady eyes, or the way he whistles his words when he gets excited. Yes, it’s all those things and more. Professors can be a scary breed.

Pushing the cyclops vision from your mind, you trudge through the wet snow, climb mucky Chambers steps, and reward yourself by riding the elevator to his floor. His office is easy to find and you’re standing in front of it in no time. Sweaty palms, heart palpitations, you’re feeling the works. You inhale deeply and knock. No answer. You think, “Thank God! He’s not here. I did my best to see The Doctor but he’s not here.” Just before you turn around to celebrate the occasion with a nap, you hear a deep, gruff, “Come in.” The cyclops lives.

If you turn around now, he’ll answer the door and see you running down the hallway. You’d never be able to explain. Meekly, you turn the knob and poke your head in, “I wanted to talk to you about my....” Suddenly you realize that you are going to be upset—there’s no way you can do about it. Flame pours into your stomach and cotton catches in your throat. You can’t speak so you just stand there looking like a lost child. The old cyclops is confused. Tilting his head, he looks at you with eyes of compassion. No longer scary, he looks rather like a puppy dog.

Hot tears sneak down your face. Your professor is horrified; he thinks your sister just died. He is convinced you need counseling. You’ll never be able to explain your reaction because you don’t understand it yourself. You were perfectly fine and now your life is in a shambles. Wiping the tears with your sleeve, something inside finally breaks and you burst out, “Could you please read my paper?”Students have fallen apart in the presence of a teacher, but my guess is that a lot more of you have "gotten emotional" than you'd like to admit. It seems like I have gone through entire years when I couldn’t look a teacher in the face without weeping uncontrollably. Two things bug me. First, I hate it that I can’t always control my emotions when I think it is important to do so. I endured a situation very much like the one above. The last thing I wanted to do was lose my control in front of a figurehead. If I can’t control myself, who can? But more importantly, I hate it that my first complaint is even an issue. It should be okay to let others know how you really feel. But strange forces in society teach us that we should be able to turn our emotions on and off like a switch. “On” to write Humes papers, “Off” to talk about them with our professors. Fortunately, there have been mostly "puppy dogs" in my emotional history. If nothing else, they have tried to convince me that it’s okay to be me in front of a teacher. Too much caffeine? Stayed up too late? One paper too many? It’s okay. You're at a highly competitive school—stress comes with your tuition. Maybe you have no idea why you cried. The reason isn’t important. You never need an excuse to be yourself.

At Howard University, during the height of the civil rights movement, it was located in a poor black neighborhood of D.C. Many of the black people living near our campus were poor and struggling to exist because they did not have the opportunity to receive a decent education. As students, caught up in the fever of the movement, we wanted Howard to make its educational resources more available to the surrounding community. The administration and many of the faculty members at that time were not supportive of this as they were more invested in encouraging us to forget our less fortunate brothers and sisters and to focus on becoming a part of the white mainstream. As a result of this issue and several others, I joined a group of freshmen and upperclassmen in staging a walkout while our trustees were on campus for a major convocation. We had hoped to embarrass the administration and to get their attention in responding to our demands. Our demonstration resulted in our group receiving letters informing us that we were to be expelled. We rallied support from other students throughout the University to close the individual schools and colleges comprising Howard. We finally closed the entire University for a two-week period. Our suspensions were revoked and many of our demands were met.

Q. What made you pursue a degree in theology and then become a minister?
A. After my experiences at college and various jobs, I came to the realization that the majority of people suffer not from psychological problems but from a lack of spiritual awareness, which manifests itself as psychological and physical problems. I feel that I needed a background in theology in order to really help the people I was dealing with.

Q. How did you become Davidson’s assistant chaplain?
A. After completing my internship for a theological degree, I came home to Davidson for a two-week visit after which I intended to look for a job. A Presbyterian church in Mooresville asked me if I would like to preach one Sunday.

See TAPIA, page 7

SHOW A DAVIDSON COLLEGE I.D. AND GET 40% off Shampoo, Cut, and Style for students
Women: Regular $18.00 Special $11.00
Men: Regular $15.00 Special $9.00
Tanning Booth $50.00 a month: unlimited visits
TONSURE
20808 N. Main Street
892-1933