Monday, February 20, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Work-study
Ask not what your college can do for you, but what you can do for your college

By JULIE ZIMMERMANN

Work-study plays a prominent role in the lives of many Davidson students. Some give as many as 15 hours a week to various aspects of the college. The Davidsonian interviewed several work-study employees to get the inside scoop on their jobs.

Computer Services Center:
Contrary to popular belief, these people do not know everything there is to know about computers. As junior Susan Swift stated, “We're not experts, but we try to know a little about everything.” Students who work at the CSC undergo training workshops for which they are paid. In the course of their training and subsequent experiences, these students learn a lot about computers, probably more than they ever would had they not had the job. The skills learned prove to be very beneficial. “This job looks really good on a resume,” said junior Ellen Morissey, “I’m applying for a job as a computer operator this summer, making a lot more money than I am now.”

Students love working at the CSC because it is a place where all members of the Davidson community come at one time or another. Sophomore Lynnette Suawanasri said, “This is a place where I’ve met a lot of people that I normally never would have come into contact with at all.” Working at the CSC is not all work. There apparently are only certain times when the center is very busy, enabling work-study students to do their own studying. One thing that many people do not realize, however, is that at busy times, the work-study students do not have priority. When Humes papers or term papers are due, a waiting list for the computers ensues, and the work-study student must give up the computer that he/she is working on for another student. Suawanasri commented that one negative factor does come with the job. Many math classes are required to write programs. She has been bombarded with the question, “Why doesn’t my program run?” Her reply, “You figure it out. I’m not here to learn your homework.” A word to the wise, be careful what you ask the work-study students to do; there is an Honor Code.

The Union:
Sophomore Dibrelle Howard works as a Union house manager. Her duties include supplementing staff help, watering plants, helping with the recycling efforts, acting as a liaison between the Union and Chambers, setting up meetings, starting the movies, and being in charge of money and keys to the various rooms. It’s a job filled with opportunities to learn. “This job has helped me when applying for the Truman Scholarship,” said Howard, “It’s a big responsibility. You have to learn to really think on your feet.”

Every Davidson student has encountered in one way or another the person working behind the Union information desk. Freshman Anjali Sharma is one of those students who keeps the Union running smoothly.Katherine works as a student photographer at College Relations. She helps keep the desk running smoothly. Sharma said she loves her job. “It is the right distance from everything. The Union is always bustling,” she said. Some of her responsibilities include: answering the four phone lines, which are constantly ringing, keeping track of the Union supervisor and director, knowing about all the upcoming events, taking lamination orders, giving change, calling people about their packages, selling cinema tickets (For those who do not know, the Union sells tickets to most movie theaters for $3.50, a big savings from the usual $5.00 ticket price!), selling The Charlotte Observer, forwarding long-distance calls, and giving out information to prospective students. The Union can be busy, but Sharma said that she can generally find a half hour to study. One of the drawbacks of working in the Union, however, is that someone must always be there until 1:00 a.m. even on weekends. The work-study students have devised a rotational system for the weekend shifts. Sharma voiced one major complaint. “Everyone on campus was given a directory. Why don’t they use it instead of constantly calling the desk?” she asked. Sharma said that people will come up to her at the desk and start a conversation with her. Working at the desk has allowed her to meet a diverse group of Davidsonians, and being an international student, she has found this a great way to learn about our country.

Photo by Alex Hayden
Junior Ian Prime’s love of sailing landed him a work-study job at the lake campus.

Photo by Ben Yarbrough
College Relations: This office is responsible for all the publications that come out to the college, such as the directory and course descriptions guide. Junior Lisa Jackson finds her job there to be a vital part of her “Davidson Experience.” “I’m getting real-life experience which I think employers are going to look for more, instead of somebody who gets out with just a degree,” said Jackson. “It’s exciting, it’s alive.” Jackson summed up an important aspect of the program by stressing the benefits of her job beyond payment. “I think I have learned more at work than in all the rest of my college career because here I’ve learned how to work with other people better. It’s definitely helped my writing and speaking abilities,” she said.

Admissions office: Senior April Loving believes working in this office is “one of the more interesting jobs.” In the course of her job, she has learned the true nature of the admissions process. “It is more than GPA, SATs, and recommendations,” she said. One of the aspects that she loves is that she gets a feel for the entering class before the new students even arrive. In addition, the job has taught her responsibility and time management. Loving works first-hand with the admissions procedure. She deals with the incoming applications, enters them into the computers, sends them to the various counselors to be rated, and sends out letters.

See IT’S A JOB, next page