~~ Friday, March 31, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN International International News ~~

U.S. recommits aid to contras; Soviets elect new congress

By BETH DRUMMOND and CAROL GATEWOOD

NICARAGUAN AID: Congress passed a bi-partisan accord last week establishing a $4.5 million dollar a month aid package for the Nicaraguan contras. The agreement provides for shipments of food, clothing, and medical supplies -- generally termed humanitarian aid -- to be sent to the Nicaraguan rebels in support of their struggle against the country’s leftist Sandinista government. The accord was negotiated by Secretary of State James Baker and represents the highest priority achievement in his first eight weeks in office. However, challenges by White House Counsel C. Borden Gray have clouded this successful climate. Because the agreement calls for monetary aid beyond November 1989 to be subject to congressional review and veto, Borden argues that it permits a legislative encroachment on the constitutional powers of the President.

USSR: District elections were held March 26 in the Soviet Union to select a new national Congress of People’s Deputies. The elections symbolized one more success for General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev’s “democratization” plans. In two months the new Congress will select a “standing legislature” as well as a president with “enhanced powers.” The new president will probably be Gorbachev. While this may illustrate an effort by the General Secretary to solidify his power as leader of the Soviet Union, there is potential for these open elections to act to his disadvantage. Although one fourth of the districts had unopposed candidates belonging to the Communist Party, popular fronts in the Baltic states posted great victories, often defeating senior party officials. These nationalist groups may support perestroika, but their presence in parliament may call for policy changes that are too radical for Gorbachev. The Soviet elections also marked a huge comeback for Boris Yeltsin, the former leader of the Moscow Communist Party who was ousted from the Politburo just over a year ago. Deposed for “radical” ideas, Yeltsin’s campaign drew large public support as people marched in the streets on his behalf. Yeltsin swept the district encompassing Moscow with 89 percent of the vote.

INTERNATIONAL TRADE: A recent article in The New York Times reported that American companies are using a new

SGA elections 1989

Davidson’s Student Government Association will hold its elections for class senators this Tuesday, April 4, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Three senators each from the sophomore, junior, and senior classes for next year will be elected, and the senator with the most votes will be class president. The Davidsonian has invited candidates to submit short pieces explaining their candidacies.

Will Montgomery

My name is Will Montgomery and I am running for senator for the class of 1992. I would like to briefly describe my past experience and hopefully give you some idea of who I am and what I can accomplish as senator. That act of my high school experience fed tape. We were a junior class, and as Davidson students were president or some other high office in high school and you may not be impressed, I will tell you what I did with that job. I organized two benefit concerts for a night shelter at a downtown Atlanta church involving bands from our school. I co-founded “Open Mind,” a discussion group that met bi-weekly to discuss current political and social events. As a senior I was the co-head of the organization which coordinated service projects at our school including blood drives, tutoring, and canned food drives. I also worked all year with a retarded teen, meeting once a week to help him learn to handle money and other social skills.

At Davidson, I have been interested in several areas. I was “Brother” in the Fall drama production of “1918.” (Actors, everyone knows, make the best politicians.) I enjoy rock climbing, water skiing, intramural sports, and being in the outdoors. I have a keen interest in environmental awareness and am currently organizing an Adopt-A-Highway march next week for the recycling committee. In January, my concern for awareness of race relations led me to march for Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday with a group of Davidson students. I have also written letters for Amnesty International. This will make an effective and responsible senator because of my experience as a leader. By combining perceptive analysis, energetic idealism, willingness to communicate, and persistence, I will define this role as a vital one.

Tom Moore

Hi there, My name is Tom Moore. I have been the Editor of The Davidsonian for the past year and am now putting myself on the was president of my year.I hope this is evident in my experience with creative and dynamic projects. I am running as a senior candidate for the SGA Senate. I have had a challenging year as Editor and have had unusual opportunities to involve the newspaper in the lives of Davidson students. If any one thing could be said to mark my term as Editor of this newspaper, I would hope that it would be that I have not been timid in taking strong stands on issues. I do not want my involvement in campus issues to end when I hand the newspaper over to the new editors at the end of this year. I can make a valuable contribution in student government as one who has spent his career here keeping an eye on authority figures, not kissing up to them. I’ve had my finger on the hot issues all year long and can use my contacts throughout the school for the benefit of students. I believe that my qualities and strengths are what Davidson needs in the SGA. Vote early and vote often and vote for Tom Moore for senior SGA Senator.

Carey Pickard

Davidson is now facing a wide range of important issues which will affect the campus for many years to come. It is important for the college community to know how the student body feels about these issues and how we want them handled. I believe that the best way to ensure that this happens is to maintain a strong, active, and open-minded SGA. The SGA is a vital part of campus life here at Davidson. It has a strong tradition of serving as a liaison between the students and the administration. I hope we can continue this tradition during the upcoming school year. If I am elected to the SGA, I will do my best to serve as a channel for student opinion. I’ll try and be open to ideas different from my own. And when the time comes to vote—especially on controversial issues—I will try to vote as a representative of the Senior Class as a whole. I realize that I don’t have the experience of some of the other candidates. However, I am committed to making Davidson a better place. I am enthusiastic and excited about the possibility of serving you as a Senior Class Senator. Therefore, I hope that you will elect me to voice your opinions on the issues that matter to you.

A method to compete more effectively with foreign corporations. Rather than trying to win the battle in exporting, American companies are now manufacturing abroad. This move is not only more efficient than exporting, it is more profitable. Producing abroad signals that more companies see a need to be globally competitive and as a result may place less value on U.S. national interests. At the same time, it may be in the United States’ interests in regards to Europe to encourage production abroad. In 1992 the 12-member European Community will complete its plans to eliminate all internal trade barriers and introduce a single European currency. Both politicians and economists fear this move will cut off most imports from outside Europe. U.S. production abroad may lead to better relations with our trading partners in the business community and diplomatic arena, and may ultimately prevent an increase in trade barriers.

MIDDLE EAST PEACE PLANS: In a summit meeting last week, leaders of Egypt, Jordan, and the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) agreed that a Middle East peace plan would require an international conference. Such a move appears to be a repudiation of recent statements by the PLO that they would consider bilateral talks with Israel under the auspices of the U.S. and the USSR. Although a move for an international conference is not supported by the Bush administration, Foreign Ministry officials in Cairo asserted that the summit’s main goal was to reach a unified stance on a Middle Eastern peace program before Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak meets with President Bush. The Arab leaders’ decision is especially significant as it comes close to the 10th anniversary of the historic Camp David Accord. Mediated by President Jimmy Carter, it was signed in March 1979 by Egyptian President Anwar el-Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin. The accord provides for the return of the Israeli-occupied Sinai Peninsula to Egypt. In exchange, Egypt agreed to the demilitarization of its relations with Israel. In an interview with The New York Times, Carter pointed to the Camp David Accord as a shining example of the successful record of U.S.-sponsored bilateral Arab/Israeli peace talks. The former President’s comments echo the Bush Administration’s lack of confidence in an international conference to solve the problems of the Middle East.