Thursday, March 2, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson: International news

By BETH DRUMMOND And CAROL GATEWOOD

POLAND: Police force increased last weekend to control demonstrations by independent groups supporting Solidarity in Cracow and other cities. Since February 6th, the day that talks began between the government and Poland’s banned trade union, “anti-communist” groups have protested. Lech Walesa has been encouraging supporters of Solidarity to abandon violent gatherings so that the union may accomplish its goals peacefully at the negotiating table.

SOUTH AFRICA: 14-year-old activist Stompie Moeketsi was buried February 25. His body was found near Soweto. Two of Winnie Mandela’s bodyguards have been blamed for Moeketsi’s murder. There is some dissension within the anti-apartheid movement as to the circumstances of the death. The imprisoned Nelson Mandela met with his wife on Monday and urged her to make no more public statements concerning the incident.

EL SALVADOR: President Napoleon Duarte submitted a proposal to El Salvador’s legislature that would have postponed the presidential elections scheduled for next month. Duarte pushed for a six-week delay in an effort to obtain a cease-fire between the military and rebels so that direct negotiations may resume. The proposal would have finalized the FDR/FMLN’s efforts to seek change through political channels instead of military struggle. It was rejected by the legislature.

EGYPT: During a five-country tour of the Middle East, Soviet Minister Eduard Shevardnadze restated his proposal that the United States and the Soviet Union mutually withdraw their naval ships from the Persian Gulf. Shevardnadze accused President Bush of “promoting superpower rivalry” in the Middle East and suggested that the administration follow a path of “cooperative diplomacy.”

PARAGUAY: General Alfredo Stroessner left the country February 5th after a coup ended his 35-year reign, but enthusiasm over prospects for democracy has dwindled among citizens. President Andres Rodriguez, the leader of the coup that overthrew Stroessner, has vowed “to shepherd the nation toward democracy.”

SGA Elections

Student Government officers were chosen in campus-wide elections Tuesday and Wednesday. Tripp Helms won what was, according to college archivist Chalmers Davidson, the first uncontested race for SGA president. Other winners are:

Vice President - Tim Sparks
Review Board - Bill Smith
Student Conduct Council - Ann Hicks, Matt Terrell
CCRL - Mary Faith Mount, Clay Adams
Honor Council - (1990) Lisa Howe, Jay Schmitt, Andy Tysinger; (1991) Helen Bell, Peter Bynum, Robert Marshall; John Howell, John Patton, Mary Russ

Trustees meet, cover range of topics

By PETE MANGONE

This past weekend Davidson’s board of trustees met on the Davidson campus for their annual winter gathering. Although their presence was much less publicized than their last visit which dealt with the football controversy, they made some important decisions concerning the budget, tuition, fundraising, athletics, and new members.

Most importantly, the trustees approved next year’s budget of $32.179 million, almost a 9% increase over last year’s budget of $29.581 million. According to Jerry Stockdale, director of College Relations, the increased costs are due to a “compensation adjustment pool” for all college employees, increased financial aid for students, and start-up costs for new programs and buildings (such as the Baker Sports Complex).

Unfortunately for students, the budget also contains an 11% increase in tuition for next year, thus driving the tuition up from this year’s total of $9,790 to $10,867 for next year.

Concerning athletics, the trustees approved a resolution making Davidson women’s soccer a varsity sport next year. The team’s schedule has not been entirely determined yet. The money for the team, which has garnered a large amount of support this past year, was approved in next year’s budget. In addition, the trustees are expecting to hear a report in the spring on Davidson’s status concerning Title IX regulations.

Finally, the trustees held elections for new members.faces a poor country that under Stroessner existed on smuggling, counterfeit goods, and drug trafficking. Violence, however, is minimal. Although Rodriguez is a member of the Colorado Party, Stroessner’s own political regime, his ministers are interested in reforming electoral laws that give the opposition more opportunities in the election. Opposition leaders have asked the government to postpone elections and may nominate their own candidate.

WESTERN EUROPE: Secretary of State James Baker toured NATO-allied countries last month expressing the United States’ desire to modernize the short-range nuclear Lance missile. While Prime Minister Thatcher approved of the plan to replace the Lance with a 450 km range missile, West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl expressed reluctance for modernization. There is strong public opposition which is calling for additional talks with the Soviet Union for the removal of short-range weapons. On the other hand, France expressed interest in cooperative efforts in military practices and the procuring of alternative weapons to the Lance.

By MARY RUSS

Campus illnesses have caused definite concern at Davidson over the course of the past month. Rapid fluctuations in weather conditions have caused more and more people to become sick, leaving them incapacitated for a period of time. 

Students crowd infirmary

Weather fluctuations contribute to the problem

“Of all the cases we’ve seen lately, most are viral infections with flu-like symptoms,” said the college infirmary. “And lots of colds,” she added.

“Most cases of the flu occur around late January to early February,” said Eaton. She warned, however, that the fact that the prescribed peak season has now officially ended is no reason to let guards down. Common symptoms of the flu, according to Eaton, are a fever of 101 degrees or greater, fatigue, and a cough. Although many people believe that nausea and vomiting commonly associated with influenza are actually symptoms of another type of illness called viral gastroenteritis. “Once you contract the flu,” added Eaton, “there is no specific treatment.” Symptomatic and supportive measures including bed rest, Tylenol, and an anti-tussin such as Robitussin are strongly recommended to facilitate recovery. According to Eaton, other than good handwashing and a flu shot in October, there are no real precautions against contracting the flu. Shots are normally recommended only for sources at high risk.

April 1, 1989: Think 75!

The Davidson College Board of Trustees met on February 24 to discuss nominations for new officers as well as welcoming new members. According to Sally Robinson, assistant to the president, E. Craig Wall Jr., former vice chair under the late Ben Craig, was chosen as the new trustee chairman. To fill his position, Jane Armfield, who is beginning her final year as a trustee, was named vice chair. In addition, the following were elected to membership: John Ariail Jr. (’64), Katherine Belk, James P. Hendrix (’63), H. Edwin Pickard (’44), Stuart Vaughn (’57), Edward (Ted) Baker (’57), and Carol C. Willingham (’77). Of these new members, it is significant to note that Willingham becomes the first Davidson alumna to serve as a voting member of the trustees.

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. A special summer session is directed by WISC.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media, and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses taught by senior government officials, who are also scholars, and public policy internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall, Spring, and Summer).