Women’s soccer goes varsity! p. 10

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXX, Number 19
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Thursday, March 2, 1989

Trustees announce $150 million campaign
Despite Davidson’s size, amount is largest ever attempted by a liberal arts college

By THOMAS H. MOORE

Davidson’s board of trustees announced Wednesday an ambitious campaign to raise $150 million for the college by the end of
1994. The amount marks the largest ever attempted by a liberal arts college.

In the press release announcing the campaign, Craig Wall Jr., chairman of the board of trustees, said, “The campaign marks
a significant point in the history of Davidson College. It is essential to Davidson’s ability to retain its position as
one of the premier liberal arts colleges in the country and to implement the college’s long-term strategic plan.”

John Griffith, Davidson’s vice-president for institutional advancement, estimated that 75% of the money raised will come from alumni. “What you’ll
see is that most of the gifts will come from alumni, but foundations across the country will do a great
deal, as will corporations, primarily in the South. Also, parents of students and friends of private higher education will make
significant contributions,” he explained.

Although there will be an effort made to secure donations of all shapes and sizes, Griffith said, “A campaign this
size will depend on a small number of very large gifts.”

The trustees in May 1986 were given a “strategic plan” that discussed the priorities of the college for “the foreseeable
future.” “My area, institutional advancement, was asked to undertake the process of analyzing the plan to come up with cost
estimates,” Griffith said.

“The priority in this campaign to raise endowment funds,” Griffith said, “is an effort to secure the position of Davidson
as one of the top handful of American liberal arts colleges. From that standpoint, it is part of the strategic
plan.”

Smith College, a women’s institution in Massachusetts, boasts what is currently the largest liberal arts college effort, $125 million. Jacquie
Suitor, associate director of development at Smith, said they are on track to finish by the end of 1989. “We’re
at $118 million, and we foresee no problem at getting $125 million by the end of the year.”

See CAMPAIGN, page 2

Vandals destroy artwork

By MARGARET CARROLL

Five large canvasses and two finished paintings were destroyed this weekend in Lingle Manor, a college-owned building which houses the
art studio of visiting art professor Billy Hassell and three advanced painting studios which are shared by six of his
students.

Two incidents occurred during the weekend: on Friday night graffiti was painted all over the building, and on Saturday night
the canvasses along with furniture and windows were destroyed. The graffiti was discovered Saturday afternoon inside the studios and all
around the building. The building itself and the student studios had not been locked, though Hassell’s studio was locked as
usual with a deadbolt lock.

The vandals used acrylic paint and brushes from the student studios, ruining several students’ brushes and squeezing out much of
the paint. Because Hassell thought that the incident was an isolated one, he did not takeMeasures to lock Lingle Manor
were taken after the incident on Friday night. However, on Saturday night, more culprits entered Lingle Manor and kicked and
punched in canvasses. This damage was discovered on Sunday afternoon. Although Hassell’s studio was locked with a deadbolt lock, the
culprits knocked the studio door down and tore off one of the door panels. Inside the studio, they destroyed five
canvasses that were ready for painting, one of which was the beginning of a painting. Muddy footprints and handprints were
found on the vandalized items. Hassell estimates the damage to his studio to be around $300, for which the college
is reimbursing him. A mirror was also stolen from Hassell’s studio, and paint was squirted all over the walls and
windows. The criminals broke a bathroom window, destroyed furniture and threw it onto the front porch, and broke several rungs
in the porch as well. Other items were taken and dropped in the front.

See VANDALS, page 13

AIDS Action Committee proposes campus measures
By SUSANNAH WELLFORD

The AIDS Action Committee is petitioning to install condom machines in all dormitory bathrooms as a protective measure against AIDS.
Petitions have been placed throughout the college campus asking for support for a health measure which has received much controversy,
yet has already been adopted at some campuses. At Davidson, student support may determine the success or defeat of the
proposition. The college administration, as may be expected, does not embrace the idea with open arms. President John Kuykendall and
Dean of Students Will Terry are both uncomfortable with the proposition.

“This is an extremely complicated issue that cannot possibly be decided without much consideration,” said Terry. On the other hand,
he stipulates that “the proposition is not a frivolous one. We are dealing with a life or death issue and
something must be done.” Terry’s greatest concern is to find a way to address the problem without offending some of
the more morally conservative factions in the Davidson College community. Kuykendall agrees and says that a more “creative solution” ought
to be considered.

One of the solutions suggested by Kuykendall is the placement of first aid boxes containing condoms on the dormitory floors.
This would not only eliminate the public nature of the condom machines, he said, but it would also help to
emphasize the health aspect of the solution. Terry and Kuykendall agree that the most important step the college can take
against AIDS is education. “You can put a condom machine in every room,” said Terry, “but it is not going
to do any good unless you teach the students the importance of using them.” Kuykendall believes that the difficulty of
the condom machine idea is that it will be hard for the college to accept this proposal without appearing to
encourage sexual activity or to adopt a laissez-faire attitude. Neither Terry nor Kuykendall are going to offer any tangible support
to the proposition, but both appear to realize a need for some form of action.

Tom Jennings, Director of Residence

See CONDOMS, page 2
