Wednesday, November 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN:

PATTERSON, from page 6

From some individuals, there were others who appreciated Patterson’s outspokenness. “It was refreshing to have a member of the Davidson
‘establishment’ who stood by his views,” said one alumnus.

“He energized the campus. Although you may not have agreed with him, he stimulated thought — he’s really one of
a kind.”

Davidson no longer enjoys the luxury of having such an outspoken professor on staff, says Abbott. “There isn’t an eccentricity,
there aren’t the same characters,” he said. “People are more into scholarly research and less into public issues.”

What did the college lose when Patterson retired?

“Davidson lost someone who helped to keep us honest,” said Abbott. “It’s easy for us to be selfish and to
forget about the way things really are in the world. We need to have people to make us feel uncomfortable.
Pat could do it without making it seem that he was vindictive.”

Patterson, now in his 70s, lives in Davidson and although he is still very alert, physically he is limited by
Parkinson’s Disease. He is confident that he had a positive impact on the college.

“I hope my legacy to the college has been to develop within others a desire to investigate social and economic
problems that are further removed from one’s immediate surroundings,” he said, smiling.

Somehow, that doesn’t seem like a “red” idea at all.

Relax...

You still have 3 days to find a date to Homecoming (so just ask him!)

Brian Michaels, Ltd.

Traditional Clothiers for Men and Women
Corbin, Ltd * Gitman Bros *
British Khaki * Cambridge Dry Goods
and More

Shops on the Green — Mon-Wed 10-6
I-77 / Exit 28 | - Thurs-Fri 10-8
Torrence Chapel Rd. Saturday 10-5

Open Daily for Lunch From 11:30
Sunday Brunch From 10:30 am.

Just Across 17

In Davidson Landing
On Lake Norman

397-3885

Davidsonian

BE A PART OF THE TEAM

CALL WILLIAM "SCOOTER" SCOUTEN FOR MORE INFO.
AT 896-6350 (HOME) OR 892-2148 (OFFICE)
OR STOP BY DUKE 316 ANYTIME!
