10 By MARK PUCKETT

Spring Frolics is this weekend, and the fourteen people who are going have asked In Good Health, “What can I do with my date that is creative, yet physically challenging to my stamina, strength, and aerobic energy?” The following possibilities come to mind:

1) Dr. Leland “Get That Food Out of Here or You Die” Park needs several monitors to capture and interrogate anyone bringing edibles or beverages into the library. He guarantees a good aerobic workout, plus the opportunity to work with some really state-of-the-art ballistics. “You’re always moving around,” Dr. Park says. “If you aren’t nailing someone in the 24-hour study room with a cup of coffee, then you’re looking for fingerprints or cleaning your Uzi.” (6 p.m.) or Saturday afternoon.

2) Volunteers will meet Saturday morning and work through the night. Food will be provided. Those who are interested should show up at the library early Friday night. “We are thinking seriously about the Ribbed-Edge Sheik Elites,” said one trustee, “but there also has been much talk about installing the Hindu Sensitizer which is reinforced with steel and polyurethane linkages. Anyway, we need young, energetic people.” (Note: scrumping can burn 120 to 200 calories.)

3) Patterson Court will outdo itself with the standard PARTIES! If you attend one of these bashes, you will find a potpourri of activity oriented toward your physical betterment:
   a) For Endurance: See how long you can stand the second-hand smoke in your eyes and throat. Also, see how many plastic beer cups you can stack in your hand. It doesn’t cost any choices.

Friday, April 14, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN — In-Goooooood Health!
The cheap, aerobic Spring Frolics date

THE EXTINCTION OF THE ABSENT MINDED PROFESSOR: "Tenure decisions are tomorrow night and I haven’t even started researching for my book."

IMACtion

Team handball, volleyball, and softball

By LARRY SLEDGE

Spring is here; seniors are getting ready to graduate; and everyone else is making plans for the summer. Along with all of the characteristics of springtime goes the approaching end of another IMAC season. As the tournaments begin, the IMAC fields are occupied by softball enthusiasts and the gym is populated by volleyball and team handball players. The IMAC Council has produced its rankings for each of the tournaments, and all three promise to be thrilling.

Team Handball

The new phenomenon this season for intramurals has been Team Handball. Thus far, the inaugural season has gone well, and slowly the players have learned the rules of the game. As the tournament opens, there are four teams whose level of play has exceeded the rest. The first seed is SAE’s Friedlander’s Team, who on paper has the most impressive team. Their starting team includes two lefthanders, Mike Friedlander at wing and Greg Jones at shooter, which gives them added scoring potential from the right side of the court. KA’s Put It In is the other undefeated team at 5-0, and they have an explosive offense as well, led by shooters A.J. Morgan and Robby Moore and the league’s top circle runner, Dave Becker. But their defense has been incredibly porous, having nearly lost to the Young Guns, who played short a man. Sig Ep’s Young Guns enter as the third seed (4-1) and are led by the offensive prowess of Chris Sward and the defensive play of goalie Jim Walker. KS’s Delta Force (#4) lost only one game to forfeiture. Wingman Mark Barrow and shooter Matt Terrell are among this team’s abundance of talent.

There are other teams with bright spots as well. The Bottom Line is led by sophomore Geoff Lewis, who is from Colorado Springs (home of the U.S. Team Handball Federation) and has much exposure to the game. Radio Alarm Clock’s roster includes Sasha Konukh, a Soviet student with prior experience in the game. But the top four are far superior to the rest of the field. And among these teams, look for Friedlander’s Team, certainly the top offensive squad, to take IMAC’s inaugural title.Handball Title

Volleyball

IMAC volleyball has long been dominated by the faculty team, John Mack & Son. When was the last time you saw a student wearing a volleyball championship t-shirt? Krentz, Kazee, and company have quite a collection of the shirts, for they have rarely been threatened, until now. Last year, David Foote put together an entry of all-stars who were the only team to take a game from the faculty champs. This year they have returned with a few new faces and have scored at least a moral victory. They captured the tournament’s #1 seeding, having demolished all of their opponents to date. John Mack enters as the third seed, having an unblemished record as well, but their victories have not been as impressive as the California Dreamers. Some say they lost their concentration when the USA’s women’s volleyball team came to town. 

Oh, there are other quality teams as well. KA’s Beeves, SAE’s Forces Team, the Internationals, and the Old Men have all played well. Beat John Mack was also impressive and was rewarded with the #2 seed. However, Molly, your team (BJM) as well as the others pose little threat to the two big guns. You and I both will be watching from the sidelines when the California Dreamers square off against John Mack & Son in the finals. Who will win? It should be a close one, but go Dreamers!

Softball

IMAC’s softball season got off to a slow start this season due to weather problems; there was snow on the ground on opening day. As a result, few teams had more than three games in the regular season. This year’s tournament was slated to start on Monday. Four teams entered with an undefeated record. The first seed is Sig Ep’s Coach’s Last Stand, who over four games averaged 20 runs per game. The second seed belongs to SAE’s MasterBatters, who finished off the season with a 20-2 thrashing of KS’s Hardballers. The Old Men enter as the third seed with a 3-0 record. First East’s Gladheater Out-fielders round out the unbeaten teams, with a 3-0 record and the fifth seed. 

Fre Semone soe include PiKA’s Box Seekers (#4, 3-1), whose pitcher, Bruce Bacon, threw five innings of no-hit balls, leading his team to a 12-4 drubbing of KS’s Tang Poons. KA’s Rough in the Diamonds are the defending champs, but played only one game (2 forfeits). Look for Manager Hugh Campbell to have his squad ready to make a run. The 4th H2O Artillery Division (#6) has two players, John Wightman and Dan Rikard, from the 1986 championship team.

See IMACtion, page 12

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines:
- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
- All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.
- All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
- Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
- The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same subject.
- All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).