Friday, September 8, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE BEST PART OF THE COLLEGE EXPERIENCE IS - KNOWING THAT ONE DAY YOU WILL BE OUT ON YOUR OWN SATURDAY MORNING

Sex, the sexes, Carleton Vaughn

This commentary was originally written as a response to the survey used to collect information for last year’s date rape symposium. But the topic is still one that should be addressed by the entire student body. Human sexuality, being the most universal human interaction, is also the most personal. Rape, being a more or less sexual act, is a violation of what makes us human, on both a personal and universal level.

I've never been able to answer questionnaires very well, and the “date rape survey” was difficult, not only because it was a very poorly designed questionnaire (it doesn’t even ask what gender I am), but also because the questions were ambiguous. A couple of times I’ve been with a girl and, though she didn’t want anything to happen, I would nibble on her ear or in some other way turn her on to the point that she did. Does that make me a rapist? In the somewhat bitter atmosphere surrounding this topic, it may seem so. Or was I merely making her aware of her own desires for me? That seems like a viable explanation, too. And if a girlfriend comes into my room and starts pulling my clothes off, was I raped if I wasn’t in the mood when she walked in the door? Anybody can identify out and out rape, but ambiguous cases are hard to define. If a woman succumbs to a man’s advances, or vice-versa, and feels guilty afterwards, was it rape?

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Gary Wheeler, News Editor
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor

Formidable tasks

Terry Holland is coming home. Our lead story this week is confirmation of the prescient story The Davidsonian ran at the end of last year in its special Onion issue, printed two months prior to the announcement of Holland’s decision. Holland now faces the task, or opportunity, to fill many more expectations, including finding solutions to the numerous problems currently plaguing Davidson’s sports program. Revitalizing the athletic program after the beating it took during last year’s controversies over football divisions, athletes’ S.A.T. scores, and Coach Bobby Hussey’s resignation is one area that Holland can assist simply by being Terry Holland: former Davidson student, player, and coach. Holland admits that he was hired for his image, in an effort to renew and unite support for Davidson athletics and the new Baker Sports Complex. Those who remember Davidson's “Glory Days” and who anxiously await their return see Holland as a powerful link to those past successes. And hiring the University of Virginia’s basketball coach won’t hurt Davidson's recognition any either. Holland is also able to appease those who share the faculty’s concern, expressed in a report last year, that sports are being given too much emphasis within the framework of the college’s philosophical goals. Even those who are not big fans of big sports can draw comfort in the fact that Holland is a Davidson graduate.the seducer a rapist and the acquiescent raped? If so, then, I’ve raped and been raped. Something that frightens me very much is that, as a human, and more particularly as a male, I have the ability to commit the act of rape. There is nothing in me that would ever cause me to realize that potential, but when I learn that a rape has happened, whether it be forced with a knife in a back alley or with alcohol and plying hands in a dorm room, I become aware that I, too, am able to do that. And it scares the hell out of me.

A girl I know at Davidson was date-raped. She was drunk at a Patterson Court party and was suckered in by an offer for a "ride back to her dorm." The piece of shit drove her to some remote spot and raped her. I don’t even know if “date-rape” is the appropriate term, since they knew little more than each other’s names. It shocks me.

The goals of many male-female relationships is the escalation of intimacy. While the “why” of this is not within the scope of my reasoning, it is a relatively new and frequent one. This pressure ranges anywhere from sweet talk to seduction to outright rape. Although the “first time” between a couple is sometimes a simultaneous and mutual decision, the idea had to come from somebody to start with.

Few people who are socially active know that I am taking a risk in affixing my name to this. But if I didn’t, I couldn’t express my views. I am proud of what I believe, but don’t wish to be misunderstood, either personally or as a representative of what I see as truth. My maleness makes me no more a rapist than knowing how to fire a pistol makes me a murderer.

My appeal is this: don’t ever force yourself on someone else for your own sexual gratification. Sex is a music that must be played in harmony. It is beautiful when it is sharing. When it isn’t sharing, it’s the same act on the physical level, but it is not the same thing.

Carleton Baccin is a junior on leave in Augusta, Georgia, who says he’s currently majoring in procrastination.

Holland knows what Davidson is all about; he’s one of us, and he is not willing to do whatever it takes to win. Holland will do a lot for Davidson’s recognition, and his support can help the program finally secure a spot in a conference, maybe even the Southern Conference.

But image is only the beginning of the problems. Complying with Title IX and recruiting enough athletes who are students first to support existing sports are among the issues that demand solutions. Kit Morris had the misfortune of being athletic director during the year when all of these problems suddenly came to a head. Holland enters the job as a well-respected hero, and as such, he will also have the power to make the decisions needed to tackle these issues. The problems are formidable, but perhaps no more formidable than the task of finding Holland must have seemed at one time.