Talk to Bis: Wednesday afternoon of each month. Campus) if you have any questions. Sign up for a Union committee.
Sign-ups for Union committees are available. If you have concerns about weight gain, special diets, or sports nutrition, call extension
2-xxxx to make an appointment with Happy Mary.

Volunteer for Davidson hot lunch program — Volunteer to help serve meals in the Davidson Community Center any Monday through
Friday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. It's easy, and they need your help. Sign up at your eating house
where directions to the Center will be posted.

Thursday, March 2, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

President 1989-90 UNION BOARD MEMBERS
Ward Bradley
Kelly Crews
Tinsley Bates
Sharon L. Schwartz
Stan Humphries

Co-Curricular VP
Social VP
Campus Forum
Chamber Music
Tom Haddock
Cinema Classics
Jennifer Longest
Concert
Matt Terrell
Cultural Events
Kellett Letson
Melissa Carr
Davidson Outdoors
Ford Shippey
Gallery
Jennifer Payne
Games
Christopher Hardin
Int'l Committee
Arindam Bhattacharjee
IPC
Bryan Kirlley
John Kang
Jennifer Bean
Literary Arts
900 Room
Mary Freed
Stacy Smith
Pop Films
Jennifer McGrady
Publicity
Christy Knight
Kristi Mitchem
Publicity Artist
Kim Cartron
Secretary/Treas.
Catherine Chang
Speakers
Susan Ott
Mollie Harrington
Video
Lisa LeNard
Women’s Concerns
Leigh Hall
Jennifer Bangley
Members-At-Large
Dru Carr
Minnie Iwamoto
Mark Puckett
Ned Carroll

CAMPAIGN, from page 1
Smith enrolls 3,000 undergraduates and has 40,000 living alumnae. Davidson currently enrolls approximately 1,400 students, and Nancy Blackwell, associate director
of alumni relations, estimated that Davidson has 15,300 living alumni.

"Our alumni body is smaller than most of the schools attempting such large campaigns," Griffith admitted, but he called the
success of a campaign "a tribute to the success of our alumni and a tribute to their loyalty to Davidson."

George A. Brakeley III, president of Brakeley, John Price Jones, Inc. of Stamford, Conn., and a friend of Griffith’s, was
consulted on an informal basis in the planning of the project. Brakeley’s firm monitors campaigns across the country. He said
that a correct description of the project would be "ambitious." "Very. Very," he said. "But you arrive at a goal
like this usually as a result of a very careful evaluation of your constituency, the willingness and capacity of the
board of trustees to lead the way, and early indications from your nearest and dearest friends."

Brakeley said that two other schools are considering $100 million and $150 million campaigns, but that Davidson is the first
to go public with its plans. He also said that if the school stays on track, it will be the
first to complete such a goal. "As a group, the trustees have established an ambitious goal of $25 million for
themselves," Brakeley said. "I believe this is a great indicator of the vision and convictions of Davidson’s supporters."

R. Stuart Dickson II, Ruddick Corp. chairman and chairman of the trustee institutional advancement committee, said in the release, "Early
fund-raising efforts have yielded gifts and pledges of over $50 million, and trustee and college leadership are currently recruiting the
campaign leaders."

Griffith rated highly the project’s prospects for success. "The fact that we have a third committed, that the trustees have
committed to raising $25 million, puts us in a very favorable position." Griffith said that current trustees have already committed
over $10 million, and that the remainder of the $25 million will come from current trustees and trustees to be
recruited over the next five years.

Brakeley praised the early returns. "One-third of the goal... the point of that, of saying you have $50 million in
hand is to say, ‘Hey guys, this is not a dream, it’s real.’"

The campaign has 3 components: the largest, approximately $100 million, is to go to the endowment. $15 million will go
to the annual operating budget, and $3 million is pegged for the annual fund. The rest will go for capital
construction, such as the sports complex, new dorms, a new arts center, and a new life sciences building. Davidson’s current
endowment is just past the $70 million mark.

A question mark in the campaign at this point is how the departures of three key institutional advancement people will
affect the project. Griffith leaves in July to assume the presidency of Arkansas College. Beth Craddock, director of the campaign,
is leaving and Marilyn Gilmore, director of corporation and foundation relations, said goodbye on Tuesday.

Griffith dismissed personnel concerns. "I feel that our departure comes at a time when an important chapter in the preparation...For
this campaign is concluded. It’s an appropriate time for someone to take the institutional advancement reins of the college and
bring the campaign to a successful conclusion.” Organizers have made the somewhat unusual move of publicly announcing the campaign before
the volunteer leadership has been named. “Those individuals will be recruited this spring,” Griffith said, and will be in place
for “gala festivities” launching the campaign this coming fall.

The October death of trustee chairman Ben Craig has also complicated efforts to get the campaign off the ground, but
Griffith says there has been a good transition. “Ben was central in leadership on the strategic plan, in the preliminary
phases of the campaign. Mr. Craig was front and center in helping to pull together the leadership gifts. Mr. Wall
was also front and center during this process. The transfer to Mr. Wall has been a smooth and effective one
such that we have been able to keep our momentum,” Griffith said. “Mr. Craig deserves remarkable credit in getting us
to this point.”

CONDOMS, from page 1

Life at Davidson, feels that the proposition is definitely worth considering. He believes that the idea would only succeed, though,
if done discreetly. He suggests that each dormitory contain one condom machine, located in the basement of the building where
it would not be as noticeable as a hall bathroom.

According to Jennings, a recent Board of Trustees meeting with the Residence Life Office produced adamant opposition to the proposal,
although not all of the members present expressed an opinion. Student response is divided. Many students interviewed said that they
would sign the petition without any reservation. Reasons given were: “We have done enough talking about AIDS, now let’s take
some action!”; “Davidson will look more aware by getting condom machines, and it will show we take the problem seriously
enough to take bold action”; and “Making condoms readily available will protect students against three serious problems—AIDS, other sexually transmitted
diseases, and pregnancy.”

Some supporters, however, signed the petition for different reasons. Among these are thoughts that “I have no problem with it,
but I don’t really see the need for AIDS prevention on the Davidson campus,” or “people will decide for themselves
anyway [whether or not to have sex], so it is our duty to offer protection to them.” One student who
supports the proposal holds an opinion many share: “It doesn’t say a lot about the school, but we are better
safe than sorry.”

Such a “realistic” approach is opposed by negative responses to the petitions, responses of two kinds. On the one hand,
the majority of interviewees neglecting to sign say they find the measure unsuitable for Davidson. Several freshmen girls said that
having condom machines on campus would make it harder to say “no” to sex. Another opinion is that Davidson is
considering the idea “just to make a statement.” Others argued that the primary focus ought to be placed upon education.
One junior suggested that the school encourage all students to go to Commwell Drugs to buy several condoms—"just in case”—even
if not sexually active.

Another suggestion—similar to Kuykendall’s idea—is to place three condoms in the “Good Stuff” boxes students receive at the beginning of
the year. Condoms would thus be readily available. The idea of first aid boxes is popular with both sides of
the condom issue, and one student suggested making it part of the Honor Code to leave 25 cents in the
box upon the taking of a condom in order to cut down on the expense of this endeavor.

Many students, however, did not sign the petition because they did not want their names on such a list. A
freshman said that she would be “mortified” if her parents saw her name on the list. Others cited political ambitions
and said that their signature may one day come back to haunt them. Although they would like to see condom
machines on campus, they were not going to make any personal effort to accomplish this goal. According to many students
interviewed, AIDS is not their “problem,” therefore there is no reason to sign the list.

There was a large concern among the students that no one would take the machines seriously. Visions of condom water
balloons sprung to their minds, and all agreed that the idea would take some getting used to. The AIDS Action
Committee, which is composed of students and faculty, reminds students that the petition is not specifically lobbying for machines on
campus. The petition is to gauge student support of whether or not protective measures against AIDS are felt to be
needed on campus, says junior Cackie Walters. The committee will consider any other “creative” solutions to the problem, including first
aid boxes and the “Good Stuff” idea.

According to Terry, “We aren’t going to see condom machines up this year.” He added, however, that if the proposition
is still active next year, the school may concede to student opinion.
