16 = Wednesday, October 11, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Men’s soccer loses in third overtime this season

By PAUL PRITCHETT

Davidson men’s soccer team endured two difficult losses a few weeks ago to a pair of intrastate rivals. Amidst the
rubble of Hurricane Hugo Sunday the 24th, the ‘Cats suffered a hard-fought defeat in overtime to UNC-Charlotte, 2-3. Wednesday they
lost to Division II powerhouse UNC-Greensboro, 5-3. The two setbacks dropped Davidson’s record to 2-7 in the season, and their
as yet most difficult schedule continues.

Leading scorer Tracy Hankins found the net twice against UNCC in a valiant comeback attempt. It took a 49er goal
in OT off of a free-kick to finally beat the Wildcats. “We played well in the game,” stated coach Charlie
Slagle. “After coming out tentatively and dropping behind 2-0, we came back and fought hard. It was tough losing our
third overtime match.”

Wednesday against the Spartans, Davidson also had to play catch-up soccer, with Rob Ukrop, Hankins, and Phelps Sprinkle scoring goals.
But UNC-G, led by a hat trick from Jason Hault, proved to be too much for the Wildcats.

The team’s schedule has pitted the ‘Cats against some of the premier soccer competition in the South. Matches have been
close and exciting but Davidson cannot seem to get many breaks. According to Slagle, “We’re getting better and better and
I’m generally pleased with our play so far, just not with the results.”

“We need to get on a roll to get the players’ confidence levels up again,” he added. As far as
objectives for the rest of 1989, Slagle said, “Our goal now is to come back and get above .500, which
with our schedule, will still put us among the top teams in the region. We can play with anyone and
with continued hard play and a few breaks, the big wins will come.” The team has the talent to win
and with a few breaks, should enjoy future success.

In Good Health

By MARK PUCKETT

Several weeks ago I may have misstepped in my sardonic castigation of all unfit people. However, I would rather have
you angry with me and exercising as a possible result of my vehemence, arrogance, etc., than lying sedentary in an
alley with a physics textbook. Again, I am not a Shakespearean artistry figure who intentionally alters the flux of your
existence. I cannot make you exercise. But, I can be a voice--an annoying reminder--that kicks your butt into gear. I
am not your conscience, though. Just a voice.

To punctuate my point:

Angry and healthy

Her: “Mark, you just write that article to let everybody know that you exercise a lot and are proud of
your body.”
Me: “Right.”
Her: “Jerk.”

Yeah, I write because I am proud of my gains, and I write to pump sunshine into my ears in
hopes that it will reach my brain. I want you to exercise. I want you to know what substances enter
your body. It is not a particularly onerous task. It takes some prudence and some time and some common sense.
Don’t be stubborn--exercise and eat well.

After this week, I will limit the initiation of any fitness regimen is within you. You may say that you
simply have no penchant for exercise. Fine. But the fact is that if you exercise and eat well, youwill feel
better and live longer. This information is not hooey. It is precept. And you are ignorant if you disregard it.
A few days after last week's article came out, I will provide my qualifying commentary and focus on basic tips.
Until then, remember: 1) exercise aerobically three times a week for at least 20 minutes at a time—walking, jogging, and
swimming are good choices; and 2) cut down on fatty meats and oily foods and eat more fruits, vegetables, whole-grain
breads, and cereals. Cut down on sodium, cholesterol, and saturated fats. Good health will undoubtedly ensue.

Jobs in Alaska
HIRING Men - Women
Summer/Year Round. CANNERIES, FISHING, LOGGING, TOURISM, CONSTRUCTION up to $600 weekly, plus FREE room and board. CALL NOW! Call refundable.
1-206-736-0775, Ext. 1726H

Cruise Ship Jobs
HIRING Men - Women. Summer/Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS, TOUR GUIDES, RECREATION PERSONNEL. Excellent pay plus FREE travel. Caribbean, Hawaii, Bahamas, South
Pacific, Mexico. CALL NOW! Call refundable. 1-206-736-0775, Ext. 1726

LAW SCHOOL?
Consider this. Just 4 months of graduate-level study at The Philadelphia Institute’s nationally acclaimed ABA-approved program will prepare you for
a successful career in one of many new and emerging specialties of the law:
- Administrative and Public Law
- International Trade Law
- Corporate Finance and Business Law
- Employee Benefit Plans
- Fiduciary Management
- Financial Planning and Tax Law
- General Practice
- Litigation Management
- Real Estate Law
- The Law School Transition Program

Housing, Financial Aid, Merit Scholarships available. Nationwide Job Placement. Send for a free booklet. Or call 1-800-289-6321.

ATTENTION ALL ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
The Air Force can make you an attractive offer—outstanding compensation plus opportunities for professional development. You can have a challenging
practice and time to spend with your family while you serve your country. Find out what the Air Force offers.
Call TSGT WILL WILBURN STATION-TO-STATION COLLECT 1-800-999-7245 Anytime

SPRING BREAK
SAILING BAHAMAS
Groups of Eight
Seven days Barefoot In the Bahamas
$455.00 pp All Accommodations & Meals
Phone College (Yr. of Grad)
Mail to: The Philadelphia Institute
1926 Arch St., Philadelphia, PA 19103
