Monday, January 23, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

UNION DESK

7 o'clock and all is well...

Now I Have to Give This Back!

The Changing of the Guard

Letters

Choir - To the Music Faculty and the Vice President for Academic Affairs:

The members of the Davidson College Union Board would like to express our appreciation to the Davidson College choir and their director, Dr. Mary Nell Saunders, for their fine performances this year. The musical precision and choice of choral works at both Convocation and Christmas Vespers, combined with a very professional presentation, truly reflect the talent of the students involved without sacrificing the intimate mood of musical performance. We hope that these positive changes will continue and we look forward to the choir’s future performances.

Sincerely,  
The Davidson College Union Board

Football

To the Editor:

As a member of the football team, I am concerned about the misrepresentation of the facts in your most recent article. Did you even look at the proposal or consult The Observer article about “the plan?” If you had, I think you would have found that several of the figures you gave in your editorial were off base, if not completely wrong.

1. Assistant coaches would work for $4,000 next season, not next year. Note the eight-month difference.
2. Money taken from the Class of 1993 consists of 15 F.A. Grants. You make it sound like the whole class would be affected.
3. Players are contributing their grants and summer money, so it is not just non-financial aid players.

Sincerely,  
Lenna Brubaker

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor  
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor  
Tripp Helms, News Editor  
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor  
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor  
John Wightman, Business Manager  
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors  
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor  
Alex Hayden, Photography Editor  
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers  
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager  
Cristin Williams, Production Editor

Football (The Final Chapter?)

It seems that football season is finally over. The scoreboard has been turned off, the bleachers are quiet, and Kit Morris is no longer being cussed at on television. The semester break came at an excellent time in the controversy; players and non-players have had time to digest the final decision of the Trustees and are better prepared to discuss it rationally. Happily, no roving groups of freshman football players have further evidenced a need to discuss their dissatisfaction with the current situation with a sleeping editor.

The Trustee decision to phase in Division III over a period of years is the best way to get to Division III; it evades most of the problems that had been forecasted. It eliminates the need for players to choose between Wildcat Club subsidies and playing. It seems to have averted a massive exodus of football players to other schools. But the decision does not rectify completely the matter of the underwhelming proportion of funds spent on women’s sports. Title IX is one big mystery it seems, even to college counsel, but it is one rapidly being solved as lawsuits testing its limits pile up. Davidson is a prime target for such a suit because our budget is so tilted.Legal aspects aside, however, there is an underlying issue of fairness. Is it fair and right for Davidson to fulfill the barest minimum requirement set out by law? Or should this institution make as its goal true equity between the sexes? A move to Division III without a substantial reorganization of funds towards women’s sports represents a failure to recognize the legal and ethical realities of the matter. Davidson should and, to be true to itself, must go above and beyond the letter of the law. A move to Division III unaccompanied by other actions will not do it.

Theft

Larceny has reared its acquisitive head in the offices of everyone’s favorite newspaper. This accounts for the delay in this rag hitting the presses. We are running a somewhat crippled organization until we can get the equipment replaced; please bear with us. If your roommate has for no good reason arrived in your room with an IBM Model 50 computer, please let us know. Thank you.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Queens College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Mail correspondence to the same address, but only after licking and attaching a stamp to the letter. Our phone number is (704) 892-2148 and -2149 (We’re special). Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union sieve, although we're sort of a government in exile until we resolve security considerations and move our stuff back in. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries always reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian; we're very confused and easily persuaded. Subscriptions cost $25 per year.

Mrs. Harrell: Sorry we worried you by saying Trey is emaciated. Honestly, he’s the stockiest anorexic we know.

Advertising rates available on request, and true to our word, we’ve doubled ’em! Copyright and full legal responsibility for any libel in this paper is held by them law degree totin’ Trustees of Davidson College, so don’t even think of suing us! Rest assured that even in our brand new kinder, gentler nation, this mean, nasty corner of the old nation will remain.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll.
Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome.
News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Pete Marigone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Larry “Pledge” Sledge, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.
Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.
Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John “Li’l Bro” Mullis, Moreland Smith.
Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.