By KIM MUNSTERMAN

Those who wander into the wilderness of Davidson College beyond Patterson Court and all other signs of civilization may be
surprised to discover a new type of wildlife besides the birds and insects. This wildlife can be seen in the
form of dorm cookouts, “silly girl parties,” carpools to Chambers, and mixers with freshmen halls. It is the wildlife of
nearly 90 sophomores and their resident advisers who inhabit Akers, Irwin, and Knox dorms.

Those students who are participating in the infamous “sophomore year abroad” describe their dorm location as both a blessing and
a curse. While some claim that their residence here is simply a reflection of “awful lottery numbers,” others state that
they specifically chose these dorms.

“We chose to be down here to live with a fun group of sophomores and to get to know different
people in our class,” said Lesley Vauclain.

Mary Russ cites “the overall bonding experience of sophomore year abroad” as the reason she and her friends chose to
live down-campus. “I’m glad we did it, even if we do end up driving to our classes,” she adds.

Residents have found reasons other than just camaraderie and new friendships to enjoy life down-campus. “It is definitely a more
relaxed, quiet environment down here,” stated Paul Pritchett. An added bonus, according to Missy Anderson, is the fact that “you
can leave your room messy because you know very few people will make the journey to visit you!”

Most male residents say they have few complaints, as they reside in the only place on campus with a five-to-one
female-to-male ratio. Unlike previous years, all but the bottom floor of Akers houses women. The men of first Akers hope
that this will help their social lives a lot.

John Turner finds the situation advantageous in other ways: “It makes it a lot easier to get the chicks to
do your laundry,” he asserts.

Some tips and words of wisdom for surviving life in the “wilderness” of Davidson College? “An answering machine is key,”
offers Glenn Kinken, as a solution to the problem of never being in his inconveniently-located room.

Students have also found alternatives to the long hike up-campus primarily through carpools, bikes, and occasionally the dubious piggy-back ride.
Most would agree with Michelle Carswell that “it will be a long, cold winter without a good carpool system!”

As a junior survivor of SYA, Carey Murrey reflected on her days of down-campus life: “I enjoyed it while I
was there, but I can definitely say that once is enough!”

This sentiment will no doubt be echoed next year when the 90 residents return to central campus, with a new
appreciation for proximal locations, stronger legs, and, for the men, maybe even clean laundry.

---

Coke and Diet Coke Six-Packs!

This Wednesday and Thursday

The Loft

On the Commons East Balcony
11 am-2 pm
9:15-10 pm
