| Professor Ayson, of Princeton, who was . *&&& THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75th Anniversary Issue %&%& %& April 1989 The DAVIDSONIAN. VOL. 1 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 1, 1914. NO. 1 Woodrow Wilson Receives President Martin Pleasant Recollections of College Days at Davidson MANY OTHER NOTABLES SEEN College Matters Discussed With Educational Experts . Despite the fact that President Wilson is exceedingly busy at this time, owing to the critical situation in Mexico and the question of the repeal of the Canal Tolls, which among many other important matters, are requiring his close attention just now, President Martin, through the kindness of Senator Overman, succeeded in securing a short interview with the President on last Thursday, March 26. After waiting for about thirty minutes, President Martin was cordially greeted by Mr. Wilson, who laid aside heavier matters of State to recall pleasantly for a few moments his college days at Davidson and to enquire about the institution as it is at present. He spoke of President Martin’s father, whom he familiarly called “Colonel” Martin and of his two sons, showing that he still intimately recalled even the small matters of his college days. He also expressed regret that ill health had compelled his withdrawal from Davidson at the end of his freshman year. This is a clear explanation of the facts connected with his leaving, which is a matter that has not been fully understood by everyone before. After a word about Mrs. Wilson’s brother, Professor Ayson, also a Davidson Freshman and a classmate of President Martin, a hearty handshake and a mutual expression of good wishes, the visit was over. It was only a short interview, but characterized by directness, simplicity, and cordiality. President Martin, in speaking of Mr. Wilson, said: “Mr. Wilson is to me better looking than his pictures, though they are exceedingly like him. He gives you the impression of strength, with much of it held in reserve.”

Interview With Vice-President Marshall

By invitation, President Martin joined the Charlotte delegation which called upon Vice-President Marshall, and invited him to speak at the celebration of the one hundred and thirty-ninth anniversary of the signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, on May 20. Among those in the party were United States Senator Overman, Secretary of Navy Pech, and Congressman Webb. Mr. Marshall met the delegation in the Vice-President’s room in the Capitol, where in an informal way the invitation was extended, first by Secretary Daniels, who stood up for the Mecklenburg Declaration and the 20th of May in great shape, then by each of the party in turn, as it was only by their combined efforts that his acceptance was secured. But the matter was finally clinched by the arguments used by President Martin. One of the arguments used by President Martin was that the Commencement Exercises of Davidson would close on the night of May 19 and that the student body and commencement visitors would be present in Charlotte in large numbers to greet and hear him. After the interview with the Vice-President, the party accepted the invitation of Secretary Daniels to lunch at the Army and Navy Club, where they had both a fine repast and a good time. (Continued on Page 4.)

Civic Improvements

Many Improvements and Other News of Interest About the Town

Mrs. L. Brady............. President
Mrs. J. M. Douglas........ Secretary

The Civic League was organized three years ago, and has thirty members, with a membership fee of $1. Very briefly some of the things accomplished are: Metal trash cans have been placed on the business street. Some sanitary ordinances asked for have been passed by the Board of Aldermen. An unsightly ditch drain on Main street was filled, at a cost of about $150. Literature about the care of outhouses has been furnished to each family. Each family receives the health bulletins sent out from Raleigh. A junior club has been organized. A club of twenty-eight members formed by the negro mothers. One health and two travel lectures have been given through the club. Cleaning day has been observed each year, and for one year the club has had the main street cleaned once a week; the town then relieved it of that care, and has done it since. One educational meeting has been held, to which all patrons of the school were invited, and matters vital to the school were spoken about. The league has employed a school playground director. He is a fine young athlete and gives the children a splendid physical drill out in the open at recess, followed by games for the little ones and special exercises for the older ones. Teachers and parents are delighted with the results and the children are enthusiastic. On Thursday night, the 9th inst., at its rooms on Main street, the Civic Club was at home to the town council, the health officers, the school board and a few other guests, to confer about launching a thorough fly and mosquito campaign. A number of interesting talks were made by the visitors, committees appointed and steps taken to bring the matter officially before the town board. Coffee and sandwiches were served. Dr. C. M. Richards presided over the business meeting. On next Tuesday the Davidson Civic Club will meet in the Civic Club rooms. The Civic Club has accomplished great things in beautifying the town, and the students of the College are heartily in sympathy with their movement. A general campaign will be held shortly to confer about ridding the town of flies and mosquitoes. Committees have been appointed, and steps have been taken to bring the matter officially before the town board. Any news and items for the town column will be appreciated. The Davidsonian hopes to make this department full every week and interesting to all. The last Lyceum number in this year’s course will be given in Shearer Hall, Monday night, April 6, at 7:45. Dana Walden, the magician, will entertain, and a highly interesting and amusingEvening is promised. Admission 25 cents. Date 4. Work on the Annual is progressing rapidly. It is expected to appear about the 15th or 20th of April.

Societies Elect Officers

MAGAZINE STAFF ELECTED

At the regular meetings of the literary societies Monday morning, March 30, the following men were elected to the Davidson College Magazine staff. From the rising Senior class: Norman Johnson (Eu.), F. L. Harkey (Phi.). From the rising Junior class: F. H. Smith and J. P. Williams (Eu.), J. M. McBryde and J. L. Payne (Phi.). J. G. Patton, Jr. (Eu.), was elected Assistant Business Manager of the Magazine.

In the Eumenean Society, the following officers were elected for the first term of the ensuing year: President, Norman Johnson; Vice-President, Roy Berry; Treasurer, J. P. Williams; Secretary, P. B. Price; Reviewer, W. A. McIlwaine; Junior member of the Debating Council, J. G. Patton, Jr.; Junior member of the Library Committee, J. P. Williams.

In the Philanthropic Society, the following officers were installed for the last term of this year: President, J. B. C. Siske; Vice-President, J. W. S. Gilchrist; Secretary, W. T. Witt; First Supervisor, L. G. Hicks; Second Supervisor, T. D. Sparrow; First Critic, H. H. McEwen; Second Critic, H. B. Overcash.

Much interest was aroused over the election in the Eumenean Society, especially over the place of Secretary, to which almost every freshman in the Society was found eligible and nominated. Two men, who figured often for each position, were finally nominated for the track team, as they proved such excellent “runners.”

PRIM WINS $50 PRIZE

B. F. Prim, Jr., won the second prize of $50 in the State Peace Contest held at the Normal, in Greensboro, March 20. The first prize of $75 was won by W. J. B. Truitt, of Elon. The other colleges represented were Wake Forest, Atlantic Christian College, Trinity, University of North Carolina, and Guilford.

Dr. J. J. Hall, of Atlanta, presided, assisted by Prof. F. S. Blair. It might be of interest to note that two years ago (the first year of the contest) Guilford won second place, and first last year. Elon won second place last year and first this year. According to logical sequence, Davidson should have first place next year.

ORCHESTRA GIVES CONCERT IN STATESVILLE

Tuesday evening, March 24, the Orchestra and Glee Club gave a concert in the auditorium of Statesville Female College. The whole college attended and proved a very appreciative audience. After the concert, the performers were given a delightful reception by the Senior class, scattering at a late hour to the homes in which they were entertained. Nothing could exceed the hospitality with which every member of the organization was received and entertained. Special mention should be made of the excellent solo work done by J. K. Morrison in his hometown.

Mr. H. W. Glasgow was here Monday to attend the funeral services of his father, Mr. L. K. Glasgow.

Ber Powell has been sick at home in Charlotte for two weeks with pneumonia.

Baseball Season Launched

Fine Prospects for a Good Season

The following games have been played:
March 22—Concord Cinco’s 0, Davidson 1.
March 23—Catawba 1, Davidson 8.
March 26—Oak Ridge 2, Davidson 0.
March 30—Buffalo-Davidson (rain).
March 31—Trinity at Gastonia (rain).

Games for Coming Week:
April 1—Guilford at Davidson.
April 3—Trinity at Davidson.
April 8—Trinity at Durham.

Hak-a-rak-a-boom-a-lack! The baseball season has been ushered in, and during the past few days, the Varsity has been daily getting in better shape, and Coach Cook is satisfied that the Red and Black Machine will come out on top ere the season has closed. The games so far have shown that the only thing lacking is good, consistent, timely hitting, and Coach has been devoting more time to this part of practice than previously. The fielding has been above par, particularly that of the infield. In the Oak Ridge game, Davidson outplayed them at every stage of the game, but simply had no luck. Several risky chances were taken on bases that would have been safe if the field had not been wet. It is true that Mayberry certainly had a good bunch of players, and they all had good wings. The Buffalo Leaguers did not come up because of inclement weather. Too bad we didn’t get a chance to defeat them. The same is true of the Gastonia game.

Trinity Series

By next Wednesday, Davidson will have played three games with the strong Methodist team from the “Bull” City. From the games they have already played and the “dope” that can be gathered, they have a far better team than they had last year. They have a fast fielding and good hitting team. On March 25, in their games with William and Mary, they simply walked over this strong team to the tune of 10 to 0. On the day following, the University of North Carolina only defeated this same team 1 to 0. On the next day, March 26, Trinity lost to the University of Vermont 2 to 0, on poor base running, although outplaying that team. On March 28, Trinity walloped the Baptist 14 to 2. Now the team will have to go some to beat this strong bunch of players. But Davidson can do it. Plenty of pep is the word! When playing them on the Hill, let every student come out and back up the Red and Black Machine; yes, “root, root, root, for the home team!” and they can’t help but win.

The following men were taken to Gastonia to play Trinity: Stough, Crayton, Watkins, Witherington, Somerville, Osteen, Currie, Anderson, Pannella, Kluttz, Keesler, Walker, Christenbury, Manager Roberson, Assistant Manager Malloy, and Coach Cook.

CAROLINA CANCELS

The University of North Carolina manager has just wired Manager Roberson that the game that was to be played in Charlotte on April 21 will have to be canceled, as they have too many games off their Hill already. The Davidson manager says that he is almost certain that he can arrange another game with them for some day in April.