14 Wednesday, November 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

One night last week, I fell asleep reading the lead article of The Davidsonian. I awoke with a start, and,
in that jumbled state of mind one sometimes awakes in, I couldn’t remember what school I attended. All I could
remember was what my school’s basketball ticket policy was:

1. Students must show up the day before a game to pick up tickets. If you miss this time, you
get no ticket.
2. Faculty and staff are relegated to the stratosphere. To get a seat in the same county as the game,
they must shell out for it.
3. If my parents want to go to the games, they must each pay $10.00 or $12.00.
4. I can’t easily sit with my parents, my visitors, or my professors. I have to plan it out far
in advance of the game.

All this information conflicted with what little I could remember about the college I chose. I vaguely remembered a sense
of community, and I recalled a perception that students and faculty were important, valued members of that community. But I
also remembered that I had class to go to, so I set about finding out which college I matriculated at.

Since two paragraphs ago I was able to count to four, I ruled out Clemson and N.C. State. I dimly
remembered that I went to a small, prestigious school, so I called Williams College. The assistant to the athletic director
answered my questions. Yes, they have a brand new athletic facility, which has cost them about $15 million. Yes, they
were a small liberal arts school. However, she said, Williams has general admission at its games. Anyone with a college
I.D. is admitted free (faculty, staff, or student), and those who want to accompany them must fork over only $3.00.

“Well,” I thought. “This doesn’t sound like the school I go to.” I bumped into a wall pondering this and
suddenly remembered that I went to school in North Carolina. “Well, that certainly narrows it down,” I said to myself.
So I called the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Jane Carter, the assistant ticket manager, answered. She told
me that Carolina students have three opportunities before the game to get tickets. Each Sunday during the season, they have
a lottery for tickets. If you miss that, you can try again on Monday. If you miss that, you can
try again on Tuesday. “As long as we have tickets, we give them to students, even when we are selling
them to the public,” she added. All tickets are $13.00, which is not a bad price to see a team
that perennially has an excellent chance at the NCAA title.

“Whoa! Wait a minute!” I thought. “The team at my school is not that good. They’re not bad by a
long shot, but saying they’re in the nation’s top ten would be a wild exaggeration.” Are the tickets then worth
almost as much as those to a Carolina game? But there was no time to think about that; Carolina was
clearly not my school. They obviously have a basketball program in the big leagues, with a ticket policy to match,
yet even so, they seemed to have student interests in mind more than my own school.

I picked up the phone and ran my forehead across the Touch-Tone pad. There was a ring at the other
end. “Duke University,” a voice said. I got in touch with Mike Cragg, the assistant sports information director. “Do students
need to get their tickets before the games?” I asked him. No, he said. “They just line up and go
in. Students are along the lower concourse on all four sides.” Do they have special seats for donors? Yes, he
said. “They have some kind of temporary seating... folding chairs along the sidelines or something.” Duke's seating plan works well
for the team, too, said Mr. Cragg. “It was started a long time ago and they keep going... we obviously
have a home court advantage when the place gets a little loud.”

I said that the arrangements seemed quite attentive to student concerns. Mr. Cragg seemed surprised. “Well, they are the ones
in school. If it wasn’t for them, we wouldn’t be doing all this,” he said. “Well, thank you,” I said.
“Obviously, I can rule out Duke.”

Perhaps I had called the wrong UNC campus. I rang up Barry Jacobs at UNC-Charlotte. He told me that students
there have to pick up their tickets in advance, but they are free. Faculty and staff have to pay, but
it’s a nominal fee. Parents and other visitors pay a bit more, but it’s still reasonable. “Well, that doesn’t sound
like my school either,” I thought.

Money may talk, but it doesn’t cheer.distribute tickets for two or so games. They are randomly assigned, meaning that the
first person in line may only get a mediocre ticket. This keeps students from camping out for weeks to get
good tickets. The tickets are then distributed for two more days before they are sold to the public. Even then,
the students’ chances for a ticket are not exhausted, Ms. Lotte’s assistant ticket manager. UNCC plays its home games at
the Charlotte Coliseum, Mr. Draughon said. Students start picking up their tickets two days in advance. They can get tickets
on campus until 3:00 p.m. on game day, at which point they can pick them up at the Coliseum itself.
A parent or non-student friend can use one of the eight $2.00 guest passes UNCC issues to each student. They
can then sit in the student section with their host. Regular tickets are $6.00, $8.00, or $9.00, said Mr. Draughon.
UNCC has been forced into assigning seats at all by the powers that be at the Charlotte Coliseum. “We would
love to have general admission, but the Coliseum tells us what we can and can’t do,” Mr. Draughon said. “They
have a strict policy of one person, one seat. If we had a facility on campus, where we could control
it, we would have general admission.”

I thanked Mr. Draughon and hung up. Suddenly, the Column-Is-Getting-Too-Long Fairy swooped in and whispered “Davidson!” in my ear. “Davidson!
Of course!” I exclaimed. A flood of memories swept across my mind. All kinds of domes swept through, actually: Chambers’
Dome, Terry’s Dome, and Kuykendall’s Dome. I called Shawn O'Rourke, Davidson’s ticket manager. He explained that the rules were needed
in the new Belk Arena since those who bought season tickets need to sit in the same seats every game
in the new gym. Why? Because the seats were sold to them by the development office to pay for the
complex. It seems that Davidson is entering a new era with the Baker Sports Complex, an era in which the
students and faculty are swept aside so the development office can lick the toes of wealthy contributors who mistakenly think
they went to Chapel Hill or Duke. It seems that we need a ticket policy worthy of the Charlotte Hornets
to pay the rent on the Arena. We have to run away from the intimacy and social atmosphere that we
have had in the past. Coach Bob McKillop wants us to support the team as if we were Duke fans,
but if all us students are crammed into one end of the arena, all we’re going to succeed in is
making everyone deaf in one ear.

Welcome to Davidson’s brave new world. Sixty years of basketball teams were inspired toward excellence by the cheers of their
fellow students, but it seems that what we now need on the sidelines is empty seats that are kept warm
only by corporate sponsorships or large donations. Money may talk, but it doesn’t cheer. The development office has sold the
soul of our basketball program. It’s no longer said about students here that: “Well, they are the ones in school.
If it wasn’t for them, we wouldn’t be doing all this,” as it is at Duke; instead, we are referred
to as “complimentary tickets,” an annoying line item that will mess up the books if left unchecked. If all this
is needed to pay for the Baker Sports Complex, then this college doesn’t need the Baker Sports Complex. Do we
have to destroy the game to save it?

In as little as one hour.

Few of our 20619 Torrence Chapel Rd. Lake 1 hr. Photo Inc. Cornelius, NC

HOURS: M-F 10-8

PICTURE PERFECT PROCESSING

Portraits, Black & White, Slides, Copying Old Prints, Enlargements

We offer a 24-hour drop box and welcome commercial accounts.

Free Second Prints (Limit two rolls with this ad) Only For Davidson Students With Valid Davidson I.D.

Southlake Shopping Center Between Roses and Harris Teeter (704) 892-5400

A Little Bit Faster...A Whole Lot Better

MEANS STYLE, High Quality FASHION Developing, FLAIR, QUALITY. SERVICE.

services.

accounts.

Chapel Rd. Cornelius, NC 28031

Clothiers Spore 8 the Green 1-77/Exit 28 Sat. 10-5 For Cornelius, NC Right at McDonald's

Women 704.892.9881 Torrence Chapel Road
