Thursday, March 9, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson: International News

By BETH DRUMMOND and CAROL GATEWOOD

VENEZUELA: More than 300 people are dead after nearly a week of rioting in the streets of Caracas and other
Venezuelan cities. The nationwide backlash occurred after newly elected President Carlos Andres Perez imposed the first steps of an austerity
program to stabilize the country’s sagging economy. Among other measures, the plan raised prices before an agreement could be reached
on private sector wage increases to offset them. Perez has been quick to blame Venezuela’s economic ills on its $33
billion foreign debt—a figure which has increased dramatically since the world fall in oil prices in the late 70’s.

MIDDLE EAST PEACE: In Vienna, where East/West conventional arms talks are scheduled to begin this week, Secretary of State James
Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze are expected to discuss plans for a new approach to Middle East peacemaking.
Baker is reportedly developing a three-track proposal dedicated to Israel, the PLO, and the Soviet Union. Under this plan, Israel
would begin by negotiating with Palestinians from the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and then branch out to include
other Arab states and the PLO. Baker will encourage Moscow to abandon its idea of an international conference and to
join the United States in its step-by-step approach.

Tripp Helms: First unopposed SGA

By MARGARET CARROLL

Last week the SGA announced final category III election results, which signify a first in Davidson’s history: an unopposed SGA
presidential race. Junior Tripp Helms, new SGA president, said, “Although I was unopposed in the race, I feel qualified for
the job and am excited about the upcoming year.” Chalmers Davidson, college archivist and professor emeritus of history, said that
he “cannot find a record of anyone unopposed in the past” and that he “thinks it is wonderful that there
is so much agreement among the students” to find someone for such an important job.

The former SGA president, senior Harrison Murray, reports that he knew of at least one person who was seriously considering
running against Helms but did not, “knowing that it would be tough to beat Helms.” Murray added that Helms is
the best qualified for the job, which is why there was no opposition from anyone in the Senate. “Tripp has
made a name for himself on this campus, being highly respected among faculty, administration, students, and the community as a
whole,” Murray said. Murray hopes that Helms’ election will add continuity to the SGA. Since Helms has served on the
Senate as an independent senator and as junior class president, he is familiar with past SGA projects and concerns. Murray
said that he would be willing to help Helms in any way, but that “it’s his show now.” Helms was
sworn in on Tuesday night.

Helms does hope to continue many of the SGA’s projects from this past year. He also “looks forward to working
with newly-elected vice president junior Tim Sparks, who brings experience to the job, as he has served as chairman of
the Ad Hoc phone committee and as independent senator.” One of the issues that Helms hopes to continue is the
investigation into the semester system and the amount of breaks. Helms hopes to look into the possibility of a 13
or 14 week semester. The new SGA will also continue to improve campus lighting for the students’ safety, and it
will continue to investigate the new phone system, making sure that it is best serving the students.

A main area of concern for Helms is the athletic situation. Helms is especially concerned with federal statute Title IX
concerning equal emphasis on women’s and men’s sports. “A great stride has been taken in the creation of a women’s
varsity soccer team, and I hope to see more new women’s sports added in the upcoming years, along with swimming
and diving teams for both men and women,” said Helms. Helms also says that the SGA...Baker is expected to challenge
the Soviets to further prove their good intentions by pushing to convince PLO leader Yasir Arafat to allow West Bankers
and Gazans to take the lead in negotiations.

TIBET: Ten pro-Tibetan independence rioters were killed Monday when Chinese police opened fire on a crowd of some 600 persons.
The incident was the fourth violent protest in Tibet in the last 18 months and points to the growing strains
between Tibetans who favor independence and Beijing authorities who are adamant that the province remain Chinese. The clash came on
the first anniversary of the killing of up to 24 pro-independence demonstrators during the Tibetan New Year celebration. Official reports
of this confrontation are sketchy as foreign journalists have been denied access to Tibet.

CONVENTIONAL REDUCTIONS: The Conventional Forces in Europe talks which began this week in Vienna have been billed by East and
West as the best chance ever to reduce the armies that have faced each other across the Iron Curtain since
World War II. For budgetary as well as strategic reasons, both sides are eager to cut back the number of
troops, tanks, artillery, and other weapons in Europe. After 15 years of failure in previous negotiations, representatives of 16 NATO
countries and seven Warsaw Pact countries will begin discussions on the much hoped-for reductions. U.S. sources said NATO negotiators were
close to an agreement on the final details of a proposal to reduce the number of plain battle tanks in
Europe to equal levels of about 20,000 per side, to cut back on other armored troop carriers to about 27,500
on each side, and to reduce artillery weapons to about 16,500 on each side. Such ceilings would require cutbacks in
NATO forces of five to ten percent, but would require massive cutbacks in Warsaw Pact forces of over 50 percent.
U.S. officials are unsure as to how the Soviets will respond to these proposals. However, they are confident that some
form of agreement can be reached.

Helms will be closely watching the football transition to Division III and making sure that the college maintains its commitment
to Division I in the other areas. Overall, Helms wants to try to re-emphasize Davidson’s commitment to athletics in all
sports. Concerning the AIDS issue, Helms said, “Although the SGA has passed a resolution that supports the investigation of installing
condom machines, we intend to receive more student feedback on the issue before deciding the best way to deal with
the AIDS issue on campus.” The SGA will continue to investigate the availability of computers and to fight the problem
of noise and food in the library. Two broad issues that Helms hopes to tackle are the minority situation on
campus and the direction that Davidson is headed as a first-rate institution. Helms hopes to create a new committee expressly
for the purpose of examining the minority situation. This committee will be made up of some SGA senators but mostly
a wide cross-section of students, and it will seek to better the situation for minorities. Concerning Davidson’s future, Helms noted
that the college is going through many changes right now with the addition of new facilities, the fund drive, the
investigation into the size of the college, and the athletic changes. “It is important that the SGA has input into
the direction of the college,” says Helms. Overall, Helms sees his role as SGA president as actively involving all students
in every possible way to make Davidson a better place. “The students have a real potential to affect the future
of Davidson,” says Helms.

Tripp Helms: To some, he’s “Mr. President,” but to us at The Davidsonian, our former News Editor is still “Chilly
Willy.” Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Inside Art, Stop Submitting to authority... know the rest...

HAIR DESIGNERS
CHAZ UP YOUR HAIR, CHAZ UP YOUR LIFE!
CALL (704) 892-9843
NORMAN CROSSING
HAY HOG CENTER
20430-3 NC HWY. 73
CORNELIUS, NC 28031
Tanning Special in February!
