Friday, November 17, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hobo in a mink? Wrestling has large outfit but small team

By DAVID COARSEY

The Davidson wrestling team is at it again this season. This year, however, marks the beginning of a new era. The opening of the Baker Sports Complex gives the wrestling team new facilities and equipment provided by a generous donation from Lowell Bryon. The new wrestling room is comparable to that of any in the country, even rivaling those of the traditional wrestling strongholds such as Iowa and Arizona. The equipment demonstrates a financial shot in the arm which bolsters Davidson’s status. In short, the Davidson wrestling team looks good. However, it lacks one key ingredient: wrestlers.

Six weeks into the season, the team still only consists of eight members. It takes 13 to fill a team. Insufficient recruiting is partly to blame for the shortage of wrestlers. This year, five freshmen went out for the team, none of which were seriously recruited. Three have already quit, obviously leaving an inadequate number to support the team in the future. There is a serious lack of advertisement for the program. The facilities along with the excellence of the college should help to draw some serious wrestlers. However, no one knows of the program’s existence. Davidson’s recruiting policies are simply inadequate, and incomparable to those of comparable schools such as Washington and Lee, Furman, and Georgia Tech.

As a high school senior, I was totally unaware that Davidson had a wrestling team until during a phone conversation with Georgia Tech’s wrestling coach. He happened to mention that Davidson was on his schedule. It is somewhat ridiculous and very unfortunate that the priorities of the athletic department lie first in making the wrestling team look good, and only secondly in recruiting more quality wrestlers. It might be helpful to use some of the money allocated to the team for scholarships in order to attract more high-quality wrestlers to fill the uniforms and the wrestling room.

As of now, the wrestling team as a whole can be compared to a hobo in a mink. This is not meant to say we do not have good wrestlers, but that we have so few of them. Fortunately, although few in numbers, Davidson has some good wrestlers. Much-needed experience is given to the team by juniors Joe Binns and Eric Farmer and sophomore Chris Clark. So far this season, the team has competed in one tournament, the Greensboro Open. Both Chris and Joe were outstanding, each taking third place. Their records are a strong 4-1 so far this season.

So what does the season hold for the Wildcats? Due to the fact that every time we have a dual meet (when only two teams compete against each other) we must forfeit five weight classes, it is highly unlikely that we will have a successful team record. However, on the tournament level, where forfeits do not count directly against you, we should do fairly well. The few wrestlers we have can win. But injury poses a big danger because the team will need every member. As for the future, the athletic department needs to realize that glitter and glamour are great, but only suiting half of a wrestling team does little to enhance our prestige.

Volleyball, C.C. end; two of South’s top 10 in soccer

From Sports Information

Volleyball beats Queens, falls to UNCG

The Wildcats volleyball team finished its 1989 season last week with a pair of away matches. The team defeated Queens College, 15-5, 15-11, 15-10, and later lost to UNC-Greensboro in a tough match, 15-11, 6-15, 7-15, 7-15.

“Queens is a much improved team, so it was nice to be able to beat them in three games and be able to have everyone on the team play,” said freshman Janet Delery. Delery played well on defense and had a good passing game. “Janet is coming along as an effective hitter and should contribute greatly to next year’s team,”said coach Rebecca Hawkins. Sophomore Catherine Robb had her best game of the season and collected five kills as well as several point-saving digs. The ‘Cats began the last match of the season against Greensboro playing very well, winning the first game 15-11. “We took advantage of their slow start, and we played well defensively, but we didn’t have the attack ability that they had,” said Hawkins. The team finished the season with a final record of 12-20 against tougher competition than last season. “We kept improving throughout the season and you only get better, in any sport, by playing better teams. We'll be older and wiser next year,” said Hawkins.

Cross Country finishes with District II

The Davidson cross country team wrapped up its season last weekend at the NCAA Region III meet at Furman University. Both the men and women competed against much stronger schools, including Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, NC State, Clemson, and Wake Forest. Wake Forest won the overall meet in the men’s division and Kentucky won the women’s race. The Davidson men finished 29th out of 33 teams and the women finished 32 out of 34.

In the men’s 10K race, Davidson's top finishers included freshman David Kearns, senior David Murray, sophomore Tad Richardson, senior Jay Clugston, and freshman Pete Hurtado. In the women’s 5K race, sophomore Kathy Beach led the way for the ‘Cats, setting a personal record with a time of 19:43. Other finishers included Heather Tarpley, junior Katie Reynolds, freshman Sarah Sadowski, and sophomore Cherry Rhyne. “Both the men’s and women’s teams improved more on their finishes this year than we had projected,” said track coach Gary Andrew. “The season was an overall success despite our inexperience.”

Ukrop and Hankins lead South soccer

Rob Ukrop and Tracy Hankins have been ranked among the top ten scoring leaders and also recognized for most goals scored in the final regular-season South Region rankings released this week. Ukrop, with 16 goals and seven assists, finished seventh in scoring, while Hankins, who had 14 goals and ten assists, finished ninth. For goals scored, Ukrop’s 16 placed him fifth in the region. Hankins concluded the year in eighth position in the category. Hankins also placed tenth in assists.

Davidson baseball team says aloha to Hawaii Break invite

Davidson baseball coach Jim Stoeckel announced last week that the 1991 Wildcat baseball team will be traveling to Hawaii over Spring Break in order to participate in the University of Hawaii’s Rainbow Tournament. “To be able to compete against the likes of Wichita State (last year’s NCAA Division champion), Indiana State, and the other schools involved is a great honor,” said Stoeckel, “and we're thankful that the University of Hawaii saw fit to include us in their plans for 1991.” Other teams competing in the eight-team round-robin tournament will include Washington State, Lewis and Clark, and Portland State.

Wildcat injury report

Stress fracture puts Gray out for 6-8 weeks

By CARTER PAYNE

The Davidson basketball team has already been hit with a staggering blow. Two weeks ago, senior forward and sure starter Maurice Gray fractured the fifth metatarsal bone in his right foot. The injury was immediately diagnosed as a stress fracture, and Gray was placed in a cast for eight weeks. Gray hopes to start rehabilitation in mid-January and to return to action by early February in time for the final third of the season. Gray described the cause of the injury as simply “something that happened over a period of time.” The continuous, rigorous pounding which his foot took eventually resulted in a break. It was “one of those inevitable things,” remarked Gray. Inevitable perhaps, but tremendously unfortunate for the basketball team. In Gray, the Wildcats lose a powerful force inside, who last year produced 9.3 points and 4.2 rebounds a game. But perhaps worst of all, they lose an element of senior leadership for which the other seniors will have to compensate. In the meantime, we wish Gray a rapid recovery.