Photo by Matt Brentjens

Women’s soccer sets Davidson records

Wildcats maim Presbyterian 9-0 at first home game

You couldn’t ask for a better way to start women’s soccer at Davidson. Fans who crowded the bleachers to see the first home game were not disappointed when the Wildcats butchered Presbyterian in a merciless 9-0 victory.

Sophomore Liz Clarke led the crusade with 3 goals and 1 assist. Freshman Ann Todd was chosen Athlete of the Week after scoring the first goal in Davidson’s short history of women’s soccer against Erskine last week. Todd played a strong game against Presbyterian with 2 goals and 1 assist. Sophomore Lindsey Forsythe also scored 2 goals in the game.

In Good Health

By MARK PUCKETT

Last year, when I began writing this column, a person of no real importance said to me, “Who the heck do you think you are telling everybody how to eat and exercise?”

True, I am no more qualified to write this article than are the fat, pork-bellied, beer drinkers who wear their cut-off Duckhead shorts down to their ankles. And I am no more qualified to write this article than are the 90 percent of females who wear tee-shirts (also down to the ankles) in attempts to cover their oleaginous fundaments (whatever happened to the mini-skirt?). Given the chance, anybody could write a similar weekly article.

Why, then, am I doing this? What qualifies me to write this column?

I read magazines and books about fitness and I exercise incessantly. These are my qualifications. I apply what I learn about food and exercise to my own regimen, and if it works well, I share it.

Finally, I exercise and eat well for myself. I am no paragon of health nor am I your superego or personal trainer. I’m a person who exercises a lot and writes about it. If you get something out of it—good.

My point is self-sufficiency. Don’t exercise for others, do it for yourself. When you are happy with yourself, others’ opinions don’t really matter.

Tip O’ the Week

There are two basic tenets paramount to good health:

1) Exercise regularly (aerobically 3 times a week); 2) and eat the right foods (more grains, more fresh fruits and vegetables, more cereals; less saturated fats, less sauce embellishments—dressings, butter, and mayonnaise—less sugar and cholesterol).

Scrutinize labels of products. Ask about foods. Read. It will behoove you to do so. Your capillaries will stop withering and your arteries will start unclogging.

Field hockey defeats High Point, then falls to Duke

By TRACEY-LYNN PEREZ

The Lady Wildcats opened the field hockey season with a 3-0 victory over High Point last week. The victory marked the first time in over five years that Davidson was able to defeat the Purple Panthers in High Point.

Monique Dockter registered the first score of the game on a penalty corner; she was assisted by Laura Follmer. Gigi Cooke was the game’s high scorer with two goals in the second half, one on an assist by Mary Russ.

After that strong start, the team spent a weekend in Catawba at the Fall Umpiring Clinic. The clinic, which featured short games, gave the ‘Cats and their opponents an opportunity to play together for the first time. Davidson was very competitive, finishing with four wins and one tie.

Next, the team faced Duke on the astroturf in Durham and fell 0-4. The loss was attributed to the Wildcats’ unfamiliarity with the different playing skills needed on turf. Luckily for Davidson, the game does not count against the team’s seeding in the Deep South Tournament.

Francesca Fierro once again proved to be a strong, aggressive, and reliable sweeper. Her outstanding defensive play was aided by goalie Elizabeth Dahm, who performed sensationally under pressure. Dahm made 20 saves in the first half.

Coach Betsy Pryor and the rest of the team look forward to meeting the Blue Devils once again, when the Wildcats can play on the grass at Davidson.

New Age

Men's and Women's Hair Designers

Perm Special!
$10.00 OFF Perms

Before Noon, Monday thru Friday

OFFER GOOD ONLY WITH COUPON
EXPIRATION DATE: 10/31/89

New Age Hair Designers

Southlake Shopping Center
20601 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Davidson, NC 28036
892-3067

Wolfe Tanning Bed
One Month Unlimited!
Only $38.50