sports By GIGGY MAXWELL

Last Thursday afternoon, Davidson’s head football coach, Vic Gatto, announced his resignation effective immediately. Replacing him will be the friend
of A.D.-elect Terry Holland, Dave Fagg (Davidson ’58), currently the associate head coach at the University of Arizona.

There had been speculation around the athletic department since the end of the 1989 football season that Gatto’s days at
Davidson were numbered. Gatto himself did not think he would be asked back. Rather than see the administration stumble through
another public relations fiasco, similar to last year’s with Bobby Hussey, he did the best thing possible for all involved.

Gatto has coached Davidson football for five years. Had Gatto chosen to stay, who knows how much time the administration
would have taken before getting the guts to fire him. Any longer delay probably would have meant the end of
football at Davidson College, as another recruiting class would have been shot.

Fagg will have his work cut out for him. With only about 25 players set to return, it will be
Fagg’s job to convince the administration and admissions office to give him 40 or so football players in next year's
freshman class. If that number ends up being more like 20, it is doubtful that the program can survive.

In accepting the head football job, Fagg becomes the first two-time football coach in Davidson history. He also led the
team from 1970-1973. During his first stint as head football coach, Fagg took a team that was coming off a
7-4 season and an appearance in the Tangerine Bowl and compiled a won-loss-tie record of 8-32-1 over four years—the second
worst winning percentage in Davidson football history. This was when we were still giving scholarships. What will Fagg do with
a 2-8 team that has no scholarships to offer?

To his credit, Fagg must have learned something over the last 17 years; otherwise, his Arizona Wildcats wouldn’t be playing
in the Copper Bowl on December 1st against North Carolina State University. After that game, Fagg will come to Davidson
to officially begin coaching. Here’s wishing him all the luck in the world. Davidson's football coaches in the past have
needed as much luck as they could get.

‘Cats hoop a close one against Erskine, 70-69; Gaines makes winning shot

Magic Gaines led the Wildcats with 16 points, 14 in the second half, including the game winner. By JOHN BURNS

Davidson got lucky Monday night and pulled out a 70-69 win in the last five seconds over Erskine College. The
brand new Belk Arena was nearly empty at game time, but that didn’t stop Bob McKillop from claiming his first
victory as the Wildcat head coach over former Davidson assistant coach Robbie Hicklin’s Flying Fleet.

Erskine’s tiny guard Joey Rice terrorized Davidson’s defense for 26 points (24 scored in the second half) as the Flying
Fleet outhustled the Wildcats for much of the game.

The crowd of 815 was treated to an electrifying finish to an otherwise boring game, as the Wildcats, with about
four minutes left, finally remembered that they should have been beating the smaller Flying Fleet. The ‘Cats scrapped back without
the help of hot-shooting Paul Denmond, who was knocked out of the game early in the second half with a
bruised vertebra in his neck. Davidson fought to within two points several times, only to turn the ball over and
have Erskine stretch the lead again. The final push came with under two minutes to play: Davidsonstole the ball from
an Erskine player on the inbounds play, and A.J. Morgan was wide open for an easy layup to tie the
game at 68. Rice answered with a foul shot at the other end for Erskine, putting his team up by
one with half a minute left. The Wildcats took the ball down court and got it in the hands of
their ace, Magic Gaines, with under ten seconds to play. Magic drove, pulled up, and shot an off-balance 10-footer with
three Fleet players (characteristically, the referees did not call the obvious foul). The ball sank through with three seconds on
the clock. Erskine’s last-ditch play was broken up at midcourt by Jay Schmitt as time ran out. The Wildcats face
UNCC in the battle for the Hornet’s Nest trophy at the Charlotte Coliseum on Friday at 7:30 p.m. They will
be playing without the services of guard Alan Hunter, who has injured his knee. Hunter said he doesn't know when
he will be able to return. The Cats dropped the game against Virginia 57-71, but came back last Monday to
beat Erskine 70-69.

Photo by Ted Richardson

Basketball drops first three games, has one close call
By DON HASTINGS

UVA 71-Davidson 57
The ACC’s Virginia Cavaliers visited Belk Arena on Friday night and returned to Charlottesville with a 71-57 win. The Wildcats
scrapped and fought but could not overcome the more powerful Cavaliers. Things looked good for Davidson just before halftime. Virginia
had no offensive rebounds in the first half, Davidson had five more total rebounds, and the Wildcats had cut the
Cavaliers’ lead to eight. It could have been even closer if the ‘Cats had hit their foul shots in the
first half.

The crowd of 4100 had illusions of grandeur as the second half started, but they turned out to be just
that, as 35 percent shooting crippled the Wildcats for the rest of the game. One bright spot was the contribution
of senior walk-on A.J. Morgan who came in late in the game and canned a three-pointer and drew a charge,
then left the court. Bryant Stith led Virginia with 19 points. Paul Denmond had 17 for the Wildcats.

William and Mary 80-Davidson 79
Davidson lost a last-second heartbreaker to William and Mary last week. After leading for most of the game, the Wildcats
couldn't hang on and dropped a one-point loss. Foul trouble in the front court was what hurt the ‘Cats this
night as starting big men Detlef Musch and Jay Schmitt each fouled out with limited playing time. Stellar 22-point performances
by Paul Denmond and Magic Gaines weren't enough to secure the win.

Wake Forest 84-Davidson 65
The most improved team in the ACC nearly opened Lawrence Joel Coliseum with a loss as the Deacons of Wake
Forest let Davidson whittle a big lead down to nine points before putting the Wildcats away. McKillop must have given
the ‘Cats a nice halftime speech. They looked like a completely different team in the second half. The quick Demon
Deacons jumped all over the Wildcats early in the game, and held the big lead until halftime. The Wildcats then
came out after the break and stuck it to Wake. The final score shows a 19-point blowout, but a closer
look will show you that the ‘Cats were dead even with the Deacons in the second half to make it
a good game. Davidson was hot until about six minutes to go, when Wake ran off a string of unanswered
baskets to put the game away. Denmond and Gaines led the team with 14 points each. Musch and Schmitt battled
hard against Wake’s scary duo of Derrick McQueen and Sam Ivy.
