Wednesday, October 11, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

HUGO, from page 4

vandalism in town and on campus. Terry praised Vail Commons staff for their swift and kind response to the crisis. All students and workmen were served free meals, said Carl Pritchard, director of auxiliary services. “More people drank milk than at any other time.” Although the Commons’ electricity was not restored until Saturday afternoon, refrigerated food had been prepared Friday before it had time to spoil. Frozen foods were not threatened because freezers did not have time to thaw, said Pritchard. “As a result, only about $500 worth of food was lost due to spoilage,” he added. Pritchard recognized the contribution of cooks and sanitation staff who worked overtime throughout the weekend. “The people in the back came through with flying colors,” he said.

Friday morning students were helping ground crews clear the debris. A few unfortunate students woke to discover that their cars had been crushed by trees. Senior Suzanne Craymer discovered that a tree had fallen on her 1985 Honda Accord, causing damages worth $3,000. Students feel that the college community handled the crisis well. “I thought they reacted the best they could,” said one senior. “The Commons serving us food was wonderful and I thought it was so neat that students were out helping.” Meetze said that every tree felled will be replaced so that the total number will return to 2000. Jim Leach, a sophomore from Savannah, Georgia, shares the sentiments of many Davidsonians. “I was really happy that I have a home to go to for fall break,” he said. “I feel sorry for the people in Charleston.”

Where were you when Hugo hit Davidson?
1. In bed, shivering in fright.
2. On Chambers’ lawn, trying to save homeless squirrels.
3. Outside, screaming like a banshee, and disturbing those who were sleeping.
4. You didn't hear a thing--“What hurricane?”
5. Running to remove your car from where you parked it near a tree.

Hugo to appear in court
By DOUG HICKS

The Honor Council was outraged three weeks ago by the reckless behavior of Hugo, an unwelcome visitor from South Carolina. Council Chairman D.J. Snell reportedly issued a warrant for Hugo’s arrest, but the Davidson College Police Department, believing Hugo escaped to the north through West Virginia, has called its Cushman force off of the case. Wasting little time in completing its own forms of vandalism, such as knocking over lampposts, Hugo then proceeded to pull out 200-year-old trees by their roots. Dean of Students Will Terry reportedly said that not even the wildest fraternity actions had resulted in uprooted trees, though on occasion some had tried to do so. Various freshmen were less concerned than the Honor Council. While the Honor Council was plotting an Honor Trial, some freshmen drunkenly screamed, “Go Hugo!” It remains to be seen whether the Honor Council will bring these frosh to trial as accomplices.

In an unprecedented effort to apprehend a hurricane, the Davidson College security force patrolled all of Thursday night in their fleet of top-of-the-line Cushman anti-hurricane vehicles. But Hugo got away. The visiting vandal from South Carolina appeared to attack with specific victims in mind: was it just coincidence that the Rusk House, Terry’s house, and college president Kuykendall’s house all suffered significant damage from fallen trees? Some students speculated the following as the hurricane’s motivation: Hugo had earlier been rejected by a Ruskie for being “too forceful”; that he had held a grudge against the Dean of Students for previous disciplinary action. Students also guessed that Hugo had been angry at Kuykendall for our 15-week (marathon) semester system. These speculations, however, remained unconfirmed. Hugo’s presence managed to stir up the campus even more than the condom controversy of this past spring. His destructive dexterity dwarfed even the recent performance of the Chinese Golden Acrobats of Taipei. The question remains of how to discipline a storm the size of South Carolina. Snell and company must face this ever-controversial issue.

Two students ventured outside as Hugo made its retreat early Friday, September 22. Photo by Bill Giduz, College Relations

Charleston is home for some students
By HEATH HARDAGE and TRENT STEVENS

Davidson may seem far away from Charleston, S.C., which Hurricane Hugo totalled three weeks ago, but for some students Charleston is very close to the heart. “It’s really devastating because that’s my homeland,” lamented freshman Jennifer Holladay. “It took so much of the history away,” she said. “It’s hard to let go of.” Former Charlestonian McNair Hughes was extremely happy that she moved to Knoxville, Tennessee this past July. Her old house, built in 1816, did suffer some damage due to Hurricane Hugo. “My room fell off the house!” she said. “It’s sitting in my (former) neighbor’s front yard.” The house’s roof was also blown away. Sophomore KristineBooker’s father has business interests in Charleston. “All the doors were blown off his building and a fleet of 33 trucks were completely submerged,” she said. According to Holladay, many Charlestonians are deeply linked to the city by family ties and are saddened to witness the damage to houses that once belonged to relatives and are part of one’s history and roots. Holladay hails from West Ashley, ten minutes from hard-hit downtown Charleston. Her mother and younger sister left for Chattanooga, Tennessee before the storm arrived. Fortunately, her house was largely unharmed, but the family’s beach house on the Isle of Palms was swept away. Unlike the many Charleston area students who decided to stay at Davidson after Hugo’s punch, Holladay went home the Saturday after the storm and returned the next evening. “All of the trees fell down,” she said of her yard. “There was about two feet of water in my car. I didn’t open the door.”

Holladay’s best friend lives near the battered Charleston Battery. “It’s really scary,” she said, of her voyage into the heart of Charleston. “It gives you a really creepy feeling knowing that there are people patrolling the streets at night.” National Guardsmen have been stationed in the city to help prevent looting and to enforce an emergency curfew. Violators of the curfew are given one warning shot and are apprehended if they don’t go home. “Everybody in the city is afraid of looting,” stated Holladay. However, the city has been able to start recovering with the help of many volunteers. “It was amazing how much help Charleston received from the outlying areas,” Holladay said. “Everybody’s just a big family, especially in the historical district.” However, restoring Charleston’s face to what it was before the storm will take “forever.” “There's nothing you can do to replace a tree that’s been there 200 years or a house that’s been there 150. Hopefully, now people will stop, look around and feel the beauty that’s around them instead of taking it for granted.”

Had Charleston taken Hugo’s threat seriously? Hughes’s brother, a student at the College of Charleston, informed her that “hurricane parties” were held at the college. Apparently, no one had anticipated the force of Hugo. The attitude of the students, according to Hughes, was somewhat skeptical: “Hugo, yeah right!... They never really thought it was going to hit.” Hughes's father, a minister, lost his parish—the First Presbyterian Church in Charleston. The church had just been renovated, but the hurricane caused the roof to cave in and the steeple to fall off.

Sophomore Andrew Peery, also of Charleston, reported that his house on the Charleston Battery escaped severe damage. “The roof is intact, and the house didn’t leak.” However, as of Tuesday, Peery still did not know what had become of his family’s beach house on Sullivan’s Island. “National Guardsmen are kicking everyone off right now,” he said. Yet another unpleasant side effect of the hurricane, according to Peery, is that “all the snakes are coming out, so no one can come in!”

Junior Ford Shippey lives in Mount Pleasant, a city near Charleston. His family evacuated safely to Columbia, but Shippey stayed at Davidson during the storm. “I’m not going to go home,” he said, “it would be crazy to go right now because of the chaos.” “I don’t want to see it [Charleston] until it’s all fixed up,” he added. “I don’t want to add to the spectacle.” Although Shippey’s house survived, he said that his neighborhood “looked like a bomb hit it.” “It probably won’t hit me until I actually go down there,” he said of the storm’s personal impact.

Freshman Julia Lake, also of Mount Pleasant, was fortunate in that nothing happened to her house. However, she added that “Everybody’s dock is gone—shrimp, crabs, and mud are in everyone’s houses.” Mount Pleasant has set a 7 p.m. curfew, and according to Lake, “Everyone obeys it.” However, there is some evidence of lawlessness in the city. “People are selling generators for $700.00,” stated Lake.

Sophomore David Smythe lives on Seabrook Island. His family was evacuated to Santee, which is 70 miles inland. “My house didn’t get a drop of water; I was psyched!” Smythe declared. Nevertheless, of Kiawah, a neighboring island, he said “Kiawah is going to totally change. Ninety percent of the pine trees on Kiawah were destroyed.”

Sophomore Derek Counts lives on James Island, to the south of Charleston. His father, a minister, stayed in a Charleston church during the storm, but the rest of his family evacuated. Like the houses of many Charleston area students, his house was largely unscathed, except for ruined carpets. “I expected it to be worse than it was,” he related, noting that the outer barrier islands blocked some of the worst of the storm’s impact. When asked if any good came out of the storm, he said, “We got a free weekend. We didn’t have classes on Friday. Other than that, nothing I can think of.”