12

Wednesday, October 11, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ambassadors reach out to 50 states for prospectives

By TOM KOONCE

In an effort to bring all aspects of student involvement together in the admissions process, a group entitled the Davidson
Ambassadors has been formed. The new effort, supervised by the admissions office, will combine campus tours, letter writing, high school
visits, hosting prospective students, and planning SGA weekend into a comprehensive and more organized program.

The ambassadors are student volunteers selected from an initial pool of approximately 100 students. Junior Kristi Kessler was selected president
of the group. She emerged as the most qualified choice because of her past work with the admissions office, the
Student Senate, and SGA Weekend. SGA President Tripp Helms said of Kessler, “There’s no doubt in anyone’s mind that she'll
do a good job.” Specifically, the ambassadors will be headed by four area coordinators who oversee activities in particular geographical
regions and a senator who oversees SGA Weekend. Volunteers can participate in as many areas as they wish. Kessler hopes
that the Davidson ambassadors will be able to find other ways to use student volunteers in the admissions process.

Helms believes that the SGA’s involvement in this new program is only appropriate. He says it is the most appropriate
student organization to represent Davidson outside of campus, since the SGA is represented by all facets of Davidson campus life.
It is important that the SGA and Davidson Ambassadors have the same goals, stated Helms. Both groups are particularly interested
in recruiting prospective students.

According to Kessler, the ambassadors program is vital to the admissions process because it is the students that make a
college what it is. Helms also conveyed this feeling, saying that student involvement in admissions, “sends a very positive message
to prospective students that representatives of the student body care enough about Davidson to take part in the recruiting process.”

Beyond Davidson

Gorbachev shakes up Politburo

By CAROL GATEWOOD

UNITED NATIONS: In his first presidential speech to the United Nations, President Bush introduced a proposal to decrease the number
of U.S. chemical weapons. Bush suggested that the U.S. eliminate 80 percent of its chemical weapons upon the Soviet Union’s
agreement to cut its stockpile to the “American level.” Bush also promised to “eliminate all American chemical arms within a
decade if a treaty banning such weapons all over the world was signed.” The New York Times reported that Bush’s
advisers hoped that this speech would outdo Mikhail Gorbachev's appearance at the United Nations last year, where the leader of
the Soviet Union announced unilateral cuts in conventional forces. Secretary of State James Baker later commented that if the two
superpowers agree to cut chemical weapons it will set an example to Third World nations that are producing, and in
some cases, using chemical weapons.

HO CHI MINH CITY: On Tuesday Vietnam officially ended its 11-year occupation of Cambodia. Despite Vietnamese efforts to establish a
“client regime,” the Khmer Rouge (in Cambodia) still threaten the legitimate Cambodian Government that was installed in December 1978. Vietnam
soldiers returning home do not seem to be celebrated. Rather the country seems to be preoccupied by a range of
problems—from overpopulation and unemployment to political corruption and hunger.

MOSCOW: President Mikhail Gorbachev announced some changes in the Communist Party’s Politburo and Secretariat. This move came in response to
a loss of party power amidst ethnic unrest. It is the largest purge to occur in Gorbachev’s four and a
half years of power, and it involved the dismissal of hard-liners in the party leadership. Gorbachev said in a speech
following the changes that the Communist Party must “resolutely move forward without giving in to those who would like to
keep us in the past and on the road of retreat.”

He’s performed with Paul Simon, Johnny Cash, Arlo Guthrie, and he is the most famous hammered dulcimer player in the
world. His name is John McCutcheon and he'll be performing in the 900 Room at 8 p.m. on Friday the
13th. For $3 (faculty and students) you can ward off bad luck and enjoy old mountain stories and music.

Advertising
BE A PART OF THE TEAM

Davidsonian

Traditional Clothiers for Men and Women

Corbin, Ltd. - Gitman Bros - British Khaki - Cambridge Dry Goods - and More

Shops On The Green
I-77 / Exit 28
Torrence Chapel Road
892-4046

Mon-Wed 10-6
Thurs-Fri 10-8
Saturday 10-5

CALL WILLIAM "SCOOTER" SCOUTEN FOR MORE INFO. AT 896-6350 (HOME) OR 892-2148 (OFFICE) OR STOP BY DUKE 316 ANYTIME!

10% Discount with Valid Student ID
