Friday, September 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

_By JOHN BURNS

Even more changes. Last spring, questions clouded the future of Davidson athletics. “Great,” I thought as I rode home, “of all the editors, I had to be the one.”

Good forecast for D.C.

If there was a man for the difficult job of A.D., it is Terry Holland. Two men with connections to the institution and its athletic history were sorely needed. McKillop somewhat meets those requirements—Holland eclipses them completely.

Holland inherits an athletic program with a growing commitment.

Home Works

Home work shouldn't have to be guesswork. We've gathered the latest, most economically priced school supplies to simplify your choices.

LAKE NORMAN STATIONERS

SHOPS ON THE GREEN
I-77, Exit 28, Torrence Chapel Rd., Cornelius

All Major Credit Cards

Mon.-Fri. 9-8
Sat. 10-5

The women’s soccer team has been putting in long hours of practice to prepare for its inaugural season.

Photo by Ed Matthews

DATE

9/8
9/9
9/13
9/20
9/23
*10/6
10/10
10/13
10/21

*Tentative

Women’s soccer schedule

OPPONENT

Erskine
Mercer
Presbyterian
UNC-G
Coker
Randolph-Macon
Elon
Catawba
Queens

HOME/AWAY

Away
Away
Home
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Home

By LEE CANIPE

From his position on the sidelines, Davidson men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle is pleased with what he sees as his team engages in pre-practice warm-ups and drills.

“These guys really worked hard during the summer and started practice in better shape than any team I’ve coached at Davidson,” he commented with a smile.

Slagle is hoping that this good conditioning will translate into a winning season for the Wildcats, who are coming off an 8-12-2 1988 campaign.

The task will not be an easy one. The Wildcats’ schedule is a killer — including six teams with legitimate Top 20 potential and a host of very competitive squads.

The grueling schedule will be a test of the Wildcats’ mettle, but Davidson is blessed with strong senior leadership, especially captains Tracy Hankins, Scott Poisson, Ross Saldarini, and Rob Vest.

This quality plus a wealth of other experienced players gives reason for optimism in the Wildcat ranks.

“This team will be much better than last year’s and has a chance to be one of the best ever at Davidson,” stated Poisson. “We are very upper-class oriented and that gives us a lot of leadership. We also have at least 15 players with experience in game situations.”

Along with these characteristics is a factor that was missing in 1988—depth. Hankins and fullback Bruce Noffsinger were out of action for nearly all of last season, while injuries to other players kept Slagle shuffling his lineup. A talented crop of freshmen, including starter Matt Spear, will help allay those problems this fall.

“Last year, we were thin at several positions. But I think we are strong enough this season that we can withstand an injury or two if we have to,” said Slagle.

Much of the starting lineup appears to be set, but there are three spots still up in the air.

Rob Ukrop, who led the Wildcats in scoring last year as a freshman, returns at center forward and Peter Cobb is back at one wing. At the other wing position, Lance Kinerk, Rob Hawkins, and Jim Walker are battling for the starting berth. Hawkins, Vest, and Spear comprise the midfield, with Saldarini at stopper and Hankins and Noffsinger filling the fullback slots. Lance Long and Spider Wormuth are in contention for the sweeper position while Doug Long and Scott Zucker are the potential goalkeepers.

The backbone of the team, according to Slagle, is its talent up the middle, particularly Ukrop and the midfielders. However, team speed, while improved from 1988, remains a key weakness in the Davidson attack.

“Speed won't be as noticeable as it was last year, but we still aren’t as quick as some of the teams that we play,” commented Slagle. “We don’t give scholarships and, well, speed is a scholarship trait.”

Although Davidson dropped its opening game of the season 2-1 to Belmont-Abbey on September 2, the optimism remains among the team.

See SOCCER, page 14

Field hockey focus

By Tracey-Lynn Pérez

The Davidson field hockey team shut out three opponents on Saturday’s “Club Play Day.” The day’s action featured victories over the Charlotte Club (3-0), the Durham Club (5-0), and Tobacco Road (1-0). No individual stats were kept for the scrimmage matches, although all of the players saw action. A match against a touring English team, originally scheduled for Thursday, September 7, has been cancelled. The Wildcats open the regular season Wednesday in a match at High Point College.