Monday, January 23, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

International Journal

Returning JYA’ers unpack adventures from abroad

Each year begins with several familiar faces missing from the Davidson campus, as juniors take leave of the North Carolina countryside to experience firsthand the romance of travel, to explore the faces, words, and places of foreign lands, and to attend universities whose ivy is older than the Declaration of Independence. This week and next week students returning from fall term programs abroad have the opportunity to share their adventures in The Davidsonian. Look for more entries in the International Journal in the next issue.

I wouldn’t have traded the experience for anything else.  
—MUADI MUKENGE  
Ambassador to France

“How does it feel to be back?” Since returning to Davidson after a semester in France I have answered this question several times a day. It’s nice to be greeted by people who are glad to see me again. And I’m glad to see them after a long absence. Meeting people was a joyous adventure. I had classes with students from various countries—Colombia, Italy, Zimbabwe, Belgium, England, Mexico, Finland, and Japan—to name a few. The majority were graduate students or recent high school graduates. It was stimulating to talk with them about their thoughts on certain issues, life in their countries, and their career goals. Young people as a whole were very easy to talk to.

In my opinion, all students, regardless of major, should try to go somewhere during the college years. Expand your horizons a little, meet new people, and see places you’ve only read about.  
—Muadi Mukenge

Actually, I’m thankful to be with family and friends once again. Some of those who went abroad didn’t return. I also love the warmer weather here, the people who smile a little, and living in a stable environment. The terrible thing is that I’ve forgotten some people’s names (now you know why I simply didn’t say your name when we chatted). But I do remember faces and the fact that one is a friend or a former classmate, etc. On the other hand, Davidson seems even slower than ever, after returning from the hubbub of Paris and Tours, France. No shops and old streets to explore. No crazy traffic and musicians in the street or metro. I must admit that the aura of slow motion in Davidson is slowly fading as I become reinvolved in extracurricular activities.

Going to France was the best experience I could have had. First of all, it was a chance to improve my speaking ability and to immerse myself in French culture. Secondly, it was a time to have a change of pace and a change of scene. In my opinion, all students, regardless of major, should try to go somewhere during the college years. Expand your horizons a little, meet new people, and see places you’ve only read about. France has so much history and beauty in it. I visited 700-year-old chateaus and descended into the dark dungeons. I went to the gold-, velvet-, and glass-filled Versailles, the Louvre museum, and the beaches of Normandy where the Allied forces landed in 1944. I also love the ethnic diversity of Paris. It is refreshing and makes life interesting. The radio regularly plays music from the Caribbean, England, Africa, Spain, and the United States. I loved it!

Contrary to many students who have gone abroad, my academic experience was not easy, but it all depends on the program one chooses. I found the French professors very strict—they expected one interpretation or expression and didn’t accept anything which varied from that standard. In a way that was good because I worked harder, but some students (including the French) became frustrated. The work in the advanced writing classes was very rigorous and there were several students who left school before finals.

I found myself explaining over and over again that no, everyone is not rich, very few people drive Cadillacs, everyone doesn’t live and act as the people in Dallas do, and we eat other things besides hamburgers. When I asked my hostess what she thought of former President Reagan, she responded that the French don’t trust any former actors in political office. Well, well, well! Many people held the belief that the U.S. was a capitalist monster. Younger people are more enthusiastic and want to visit. Many blacks, on the other hand, have no desire to come here. The U.S. has a terrible reputation as far as racism is concerned. Even though the perception of racism is more of the past and not of the present, the splatter of recent racist events is what is portrayed in the French media and thus taken as the norm. Having enjoyed for the most part non-discriminatory treatment in Europe, the American image evokes no desire to emigrate. The problem of racial harassment in France is more acute for Arabs, millions of whom have made France their home.Since the 1960s, unemployment is blamed on the fact that Arabs take jobs away from the French—never mind that Arabs often accept jobs the French don’t want. Arabs are relentlessly harassed. The recent growth of Skinheads—a neo-Nazi group—is in reaction to the presence of Arabs, communists, and blacks. On two occasions there were Skinheads a few yards from me. I was a little apprehensive but nothing happened. My stay was made a little less enjoyable due to strikes by several sectors of the workforce, including the postal service. Certain postal personnel refused to work for approximately six weeks. It took mail three weeks to be sent between the United States and France—which is agonizing for visiting students! Most of the demonstrations were being carried out in Paris and fortunately my group had moved to Tours when they began. With the exception of postal inconveniences, our lives were not greatly affected. Nurses were the first to go on strike. The instability was compounded by the transport strike—several train and metro services were suspended. Kids stayed home as some teachers went on strike. The entire country was forced into a situation of uncertainty and instability—a situation which could not be easily remedied because the French budget has inadequate funds to increase the salaries of even one group of workers. When I left in December, the problems had not been completely resolved. 

Ever since I left Zaire, there are multitudes of Zaireans who have moved to Belgium. I was astounded to see so much of my culture at one time. In Atlanta, where I make my home, I would guess that there are less than 50 Zaireans; in the entire United States there are not many, thus the culture is not apparent. On the contrary, in Brussels I saw Zairean clothing and record stores, jewelry and art shops—an entire mall! There were Zairean restaurants and clubs. I didn’t have time to see everything so I definitely have to go back. Of course, my friends thought I was an alien and we talked and talked—exchanging stories of life in the States and life in Zaire. I watched videos of Zairean performers and taped a lot of music. 

On another occasion, I flew to London to visit my pen pal. We’ve been writing for eight years! I had a wonderful time talking with her and her family. That Saturday we did a power tour of London—Big Ben, Buckingham Palace, the Tower of London, Madame Tussaud’s Wax Museum, Garfunkel’s Restaurant, and Leicester Square. I saw the beautiful countryside as well. Otherwise, I enjoyed the marvelous French cuisine and its quaint cafes. I spent a lot of money, but hey, you only live once and I don’t know when I’ll go back. I became rather close to our hostess and her cat, Camel. My French definitely improved and I believe I have a wider perspective of things than before I embarked on my trip. I have an address book full of the names of friends which I may see again one day.

In Search of Scotland
—SUZANNE CRAYMER

Ambassador to Scotland

Riding Scot-rail from London to the University of Aberdeen, I peered out the window. The North Sea flashed by, spotted with oil rigs, but as of yet no sign of anything stereotypically Scottish, no lochs, kilts, or even castle ruins. When the train arrived in Aberdeen, the northern-most Scottish city at Siberian latitudes, only severe gray granite buildings greeted us. Cold wind whistled in back streets as I, clad only in a light jacket, hurried to my dorm. As I soon learned, the city’s hard exterior provided shelter for perhaps the most friendly, open people in all of Europe. The Scots proved easy to meet and fun to know. A ceilidh (pronounced keelie) could arise spontaneously in the midst of any social gathering, from private parties to trendy discos. Ceilidhs required only two things: whiskey and music. When the music started, people set their glasses down, grabbed partners, and hastened to the dance floor. Everyone participated as the band began the first reels. With raucous whoops and hollers, dancers whirled around the floor, often stepping on, stomping, or elbowing other participants in the wild confusion. Inevitably, it all ended with the immortal Highland Fling. Apart from the dancing, ceilidhs often provoked long conversations. Scots greeted me with the glad recognition “Oh, an American!” before offering their sad condolences on the state of the U.S.

See JYA JOURNALS, page 6