Welcome parents!

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 6

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, October 19, 1989

Reform or revolution?

By Suzanne Craymer

Davidson students and faculty explored the changes in Gorbachev’s Soviet Union on October 10 through 12. The speakers stressed economic issues and military concerns. In addition, the conference evaluated the growing tensions within the Soviet Union as Gorbachev's reforms take hold.

Stanford University professor Alexander Dallin gave the opening address on Tuesday, October 10 at 11 a.m. He identified Gorbachev's reforms, which started in 1985, as a “slow unravelling of the system.” Under Gorbachev, the Soviet Union began a shift from centralized Stalinist communism to a more pluralistic society. This change provides Soviet citizens with more individual rights. Dallin, however, identified violent riots as a possible negative outgrowth of the new freedoms given to citizens. “The biggest failure is the economy,” he said. “It isn’t working.”

The conference continued on Wednesday with Igor Khripunov, first secretary in the Soviet Embassy in Washington. Khripunov shocked the audience with his viewpoint on Soviet foreign affairs. “We are damn serious about reshaping our foreign policy,” he said, “We have done many things in the past that we regard as mistakes.” One event which Khripunov highlighted as harmful to the Soviet Union was the continued manufacture of chemical weapons after a ban in 1960. He also condemned the Soviet Union’s conduct during the 1983 peace talks with President Reagan. Khripunov regretted that the talks had not lasted longer. Compared with past events, Khripunov called Gorbachev's policies “a revolution.”

See REFORM, page 2

By GARY WHEELER

Concluding the three-day-long conference, “Gorbachev's Soviet Union: Reform or Revolution?” last Thursday, Robert Williams, dean of faculty, stressed the need for humility in attempting to understand the “dramatic and far-reaching developments in the Soviet Union under Gorbachev.” Williams stated that the extent of the reforms in the Soviet Union alone have taken the world by surprise. Thus trying to predict where the reforms will lead the Soviet Union is an extraordinarily difficult task.

“If we could not forecast the reforms, how can we forecast their fate?” he challenged.

He suggests that developments in the Soviet Union are best viewed with an open mind. “A liberal arts education should teach students to apply a breadth of knowledge to new and unforeseen situations,” he said. “Let us admit our humility and try to understand.”

“This conference helps us understand that Gorbachev’s reforms are wide-reaching and significant, often unexpected, breathtaking in their openness and yet often ineffective in their attempts to move the U.S.S.R. toward greater freedom.”

See USSR, page 2

“If we could not forecast the reforms, how can we forecast their fate?” asked vice president of faculty Bob Williams in his concluding remarks at this year’s NCNB sponsored conference on the recent changes in the Soviet Union.

Photo by Robert Marshall

Wildcats wallop Methodist 52-0!

Football team revels in the feeling of winning, and winning big

By GIGGY MAXWELL

The Packers of the 60’s. The Steelers of the 70’s. The Bears, Forty-Niners and Redskins of the 80’s. The Wildcats of 1989.

The Wildcats of 1989?

You'll have to excuse the visions of grandeur, but as a faithful four-year follower of Davidson's gridiron exploits, Saturday’s 52-0 thrashing of the Methodist Monarchs was a win of dynastic proportions.

William the Conqueror never won by 52 points.

Ok, so no one is going to confuse Methodist’s football program with Clemson’s. In this, their inaugural season, the Monarchs have been shut out in five of six games. Their roster is almost completely made up of freshmen and sophomores, much like Davidson’s roster four years ago.

But for this week none of that matters to the Wildcats, who finally have the opportunity to enjoy winning, and winning big.

The Wildcat offense, which had been battling a scoring drought all season, erupted in a deluge of points that made the scoreboard resemble Jose Canseco’s odometer. It might have been worse had a slick clock operator not managed to transform 12:52 remaining in the fourth quarter into 5:25 in the blink of an eye.

As has become the Wildcats' trademark, offensive yardage was again chalked up primarily on the ground as TB Ralph Isernia (14 carries, 73 yards) and FB Brian Kelly (9 carries, 60 yards) led an attack that accumulated 246 yards rushing.

The attack was so balanced that three different Davidson running backs scored, with Isernia and TB Bryn Robinson netting two apiece. A fourth back, Travis Hinson, scampered in for his own score on a 27-yard interception return while playing in the secondary.

TE Tony Lambert caught two passes for 70 yards which accounted for the majority of QB Peter Hughes’s 120 yards in passing.

The defense also played well for the third straight week, as it recorded seven turnovers and notched its second shutout of the season. In fact, Methodist was having so many problems moving the ball, that, at the half, Davidson had actually been penalized for more yards (72) than the Monarchs could manage in total offense (71).

In the second quarter, when the game was actually still in the balance, one key play stands out that put the ‘Cats into overdrive--and it wasn’t even a play on the field. As the yellow flag (signifying a late hit by DB Mike Carney) descended on the Methodist sideline, the entire Methodist bench descended onto Mike Carney. At the time, Methodist was driving in Wildcat territory and a score would have reduced the Wildcat lead.

See WALLOP, page 7