Wednesday, December 6, 1989  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Congratulations!

Bill Giduz, news director of College Relations, has recently had one of his photographs chosen from a group of 172,000 entries received from across the country to appear in Parade magazine. Giduz's photograph, above, captures his 2-year-old nephew, Baker Giduz, making the funny face his grandfather Roland Giduz taught him how to make. It will be one of 100 photographs featured in this Sunday’s issue as winners of the "Young America" photo contest.

COUNSELORS, from page 5

Puckett: I gave 15 packets to an SAE and a friend who were going as the Condom Twins. I gave it to him, another guy on the hall, and some guys off the hall.

Williams: I did give one out but it was for a water balloon.

The Davidsonian: How have your outside interests: fraternities, sports, artistic endeavors, etc. been affected by your duties as a hall counselor?

Puckett: I am just as active as I ever was. I am president of the waterskiing club, taught two waterskiing classes, managed the women’s volleyball team, and now I am wrestling.

Williams: Yeah, my extracurricular things haven’t suffered too much. I might say it is the other way around—my time spent with baseball, I have to do that, has decreased my time on the hall but it hasn’t been too bad.

The Davidsonian: Have you continued to have the same relationships with your class, old friends, and others or have you stayed mostly with your hallmates?

Puckett: They all went away. The people I have been closest to this year are the freshmen. I’ve kept in touch with who I can, but most of my friends are gone, they’re not here.

Williams: I guess I fall into that “other” category. I have a girlfriend but being a hall counselor hasn’t threatened my relationship with her.

The Davidsonian: If you can, give some strange, weird, or funny experience with your hall.

Puckett: The raft...for the Freshman Regatta everyone else had kegs with wood on them or inflatable rafts. We had just a big two by four and tied four ropes to it...we were winning most of the time, four guys swimming across. There are a lot of zany things.

Williams: Well as far as delinquency goes, the guys on my hall thought it was really funny to drop trashcans of water on people as they entered. But we got a little bit of a visit from the campus police asking us not to do that. Then we have Late Night with Ed Rizzo, (a guy on our hall), and about 15 guys tell zany stories and jokes at 1:30 a.m.

The Davidsonian: Has your role towards your freshmen been as a disciplinarian, older brother, or a fellow student? Have there been any serious infractions, possibly illegal, by your hallmates? If so, did you handle the problems yourself or did you seek some outside agency?

Puckett: I think I’ve been a bit of them all as disciplinarian, older brother...I’ve told people to turn down radios hundreds of times; eventually they usually get the point.

Williams: I’d say I’ve been more of the brother side. I eat in the Commons with them and that helps. They got comfortable with me with the fact they could pick on me about my love life... They come to me with their problems—

Puckett: Sometimes people just get unruly. Maybe someone will get mad because he has broken up with his girlfriend. That happened just the other day.

The Davidsonian: At the midpoint of the year, has being a hall counselor been worth it? If so, how and in what ways? If not, why not?

Puckett: It sounds kind of dumb, but it does put you in a position where you're known. I have no regrets. The only thing is my grades aren’t as good, I mean they’re good, but not as good as the past. I’ve learned a lot about myself, people have helped a lot. It makes you look outside yourself and see how others see you.

Williams: Pretty much what I expected. I mean you expect it sometimes to be time-consuming and unpleasant. In the long run it’s almost a father trial... These guys are just out of high school, some want to be independent, but others are homesick.

The Davidsonian: From your experience, what advice would you give to someone who is hoping to be a hall counselor next year?

Puckett: Expect anything. If you get hall counselor, you have to expect on putting in a lot of work. You may think you can just float by, but you have to be on the hall, and become one with them. I myself am reliving my freshman experience. I had good hall counselors but the hall, well, it was just one of those things where nobody got along.

Williams: When you're rewarded by being a hall counselor there is a degree of pride in it and there is a tendency to abuse your privileges. Be yourself. Don’t expect to have all the answers, a lot of times the freshmen will figure out a solution.

Puckett: A lot of times you have to be like one of those plastic dummies that bounce right back up. They’re just going to throw things at you and you as a concerned listener are going to say things like “yeah, that’s right.” They know pretty much what they want to do, and just need to articulate to someone that agrees with them.

UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI  
EDUCATION FOR THE REAL WORLD

Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues.

Special fields: International relations, Interamerican relations, international business, comparative development, strategic studies.

Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, and the Middle East.

Fellowships and other financial aid available. Apply by February 15.

GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES  
UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI  
P.O. BOX 248123  
CORAL GABLES, FL 33124-3010  
(305) 284-4173