Wednesday, September 20, 1989

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Reform or revolution in the Soviet Union today?

Dean Rusk Program invites scholars to discuss changes in the U.S.S.R. under Gorbachev

By GEORGE LAFAYE

The Dean Rusk Program in International Studies will sponsor a conference entitled "Gorbachev's Soviet Union: Reform or Revolution" on October
10-12. Representatives from three American administrations and several colleges and universities will discuss the extent of the current wave of
change in the political, economic, and social systems of the Soviet Union.

October 10 and 11 will each feature two panel discussions with topics ranging from “Soviet Foreign Policy” to “Glasnost: The
Impact on Society.” Panelists include Tatyana Mamonova, a Soviet expatriate from the Women’s Research Institute at the Hartford College for
Women.

As the title suggests, the conference aims to determine how radical a departure from past Soviet policies glasnost and perestroika
represent. In addition, panelists will examine the role of the West in a more open Soviet society by examining prospects
for increased East-West trade.

Sessions run from a mid-morning presentation on Soviet culture, afternoon panel discussions, and evening speeches concerning different aspects of changing
Soviet society. These sessions will be held mainly in Chambers building with some panel discussions in the Student Union. Davidson
students and the general public may attend any of the presentations. A complete list of activities and times is available
from the Dean Rusk program.

For those wishing to learn more about events in the Soviet Union before the conference starts, the Dean Rusk program
will be hosting an open luncheon on September 27 featuring four members of the Davidson community who have recently visited
the Soviet Union. Jack Perry, director of the Dean Rusk program, Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, professor of Russian Bonnie
Marshall, and students Ramona Oliver and Diedra Montague will share their experiences with those interested.

The future for protesting Chinese students is unsure

By MUADI MUKENGE

While in Washington, D.C. this past summer, I met with four Chinese students who expressed anger and disillusionment with the
turmoil in Tiananmen Square. They have formed a protest organization and thus have endangered their lives. The following is their
story.

Ping Li says that he and his father often argue about politics—China’s politics. His father is a member of China’s
Communist Party. Li is presently in the United States protesting the government which ordered the June military crackdown in Tiananmen
Square.

“We have a different ideology,” stated Li, a Ph.D. candidate at George Washington University (GWU). “He doesn’t want to see
the crackdown as a fact because he’s been fighting for so many years... fighting for an ideal government.”

It is a conflict of ideology between the old and the young, and Li is not alone in expressing anger
with his homeland. He is a member of the Alliance of Chinese Patriots, an organization of Chinese students enrolled in
American colleges and universities. The group was formed following the June 4 military crackdown in Tiananmen Square which claimed the
lives of an estimated 5,000 students and civilians.

According to their charter, the Alliance seeks not to reject communism, but to form a more “democratic China,” one that
tolerates freedom of expression and of the press. Through demonstrations, seminars, and conferences, the Alliance also seeks to educate the
American public about the history being made in their homeland.

Yet “home” is dangerous for them now. Li and others interviewed are afraid to return to China for fear of
imprisonment or even death. Their protest activities in the United States are being closely monitored. Since June 4, a total
of 31 “counterrevolutionaries”—those who played major roles in the student protests—have been executed by government order. Hundreds more have been
detained for supporting the pro-democracy movement.

Said Gang Ke, “It’s almost impossible for me to go back. I have to stay here—I don’t want to risk
my personal life.” Ke, a doctoral candidate at the University of Maryland, is married. He is trying to obtain visas
for his wife and son, who are still in China.

Yaqin Zhang has a similar dilemma. Also a student at GWU, he was an associate professor at the China University
of Science and Technology. One of his friends is on China’s “Most Wanted” list and there is no word on
his present status. Li feels that there is no doubt he will be “wanted” as well in the event that
he returns home.

“If I go back,” he said, “I doubt if I’ll be able to stay in hiding. There are police everywhere.
Friends might even turn their backs on me.” According to Li, fear has even prompted some to turn in family
members to the police. By the same token, people are extremely reluctant to...divulge information to the press or to family
members abroad, says Ke. When he called his parents in Beijing, they hardly talked to him, although he knew from
friends that they had witnessed the massacre. The Alliance managed to obtain pictures of the massacre which were smuggled out
by friends. To avoid China’s mail censorship, they invested in a fax machine to send reports of the crackdown to
contacts in Beijing. Says Li, “Chinese papers don’t tell you anything. You don’t see the tanks moving in on people
on television over there. Some people outside of Beijing don’t even know exactly what's going on.”

What is going on in China? Why did the June 4 military crackdown take place? Zhang, Ke, and Li conclude
that Deng Xiaoping, China’s senior leader, is exercising his power to reemphasize that the economic freedom he initiated in 1976
was not a precedent to political freedom. He made that point very strongly by using tanks on “ordinary people” for
the first time in modern Chinese history, stated Li. “Deng is the only controller [of China],” said Ke, “and he
wants to keep it [that way].” The Communist Party, prime minister, and commander of the army are all subordinate to
Deng’s wishes, he added.

According to Zhang, Deng has not always exhibited the narrow-minded and ruthless qualities which resulted in the Tiananmen Square deaths.
In fact, as successor to Mao Zedong in 1976, he initiated the free enterprise system and dissolved communes. He also
abolished a decree which had forced one student's father, a native Taiwanese, to do hard labor because he was regarded
as a potential traitor to China. Zhang and Li thank Deng for widening opportunities—such as university admittance—to all citizens, regardless
of social status. “Deng was highly respected then,” says Li. “He was called the ‘Savior.’”

However, Deng is unwilling to widen the political arena beyond the gerontocracy of the Communist Party. He has furthermore ridden
the party of pro-reformists. Those who watched with hope as Deng made no move during months of protest were shocked
into the reality of his resolve to refuse demands for greater political freedom. But while Deng wields an iron hand,
the future of about 75,000 Chinese students in the United States is unclear. The Bush Administration has extended their visas
for one year—a year during which Deng can be watched from afar. But what will happen when that time runs
out? Li, Ke, and Zhang are afraid but will nevertheless persist in their work.

Until the last decade, it was an “honor” to join the Communist Party, acknowledged Li. “Now it is a disgrace.”

S.A.T., from page 1.

Without the use of the S.A.T., “We conclude that we do not make better decisions without both S.A.T.s and Achievement
Tests, but given the multiple lenses of a highly selective college and the restriction of range,” he wrote. In its
1987 article “Some Colleges Rethinking Value of S.A.T.s,” the Washington Post reported that College Board officials acknowledge that grades are
a better predictor of academic success than S.A.T.s. But they argue that grades and S.A.T.s combined are the best predictors.

Bates’ optional S.A.T. policy has not had a negative impact on the quality of its applicant pool, said Hiss. “They
[those students who did not submit S.A.T. scores] have performed almost as well as submitting students with higher scores, and
have caused the entire class grade-point average to rise markedly,” he said. Hiss also noted that Bates’ optional S.A.T. policy
has attracted a larger and more diverse applicant pool. “The pool has increased 17.3 percent in the two years since
the decision, with significant geographic diversity, minority applications, and as many honors students as before.”

PLUS, from page 1

“Many times, all it takes is moral courage on the part of one person to prevent a situation from getting
out of hand,” he added. The student reaction to the program is mixed. Those participating in Davidson Plus seem less
than enthusiastic, mainly because they feel overwhelmed by the time commitment. Several students also complained of a lack of organization
and spoke of never knowing when their next session would meet. To the other freshmen on campus, Davidson Plus is
thought of as an elite group and the purpose of the program is not clear to them. The administration is
confident, however, that once the program settles down into a routine, Davidson Plus will be a positive experience for all.

Registered DIET QUESTIONS??? MEET HAPPY McCRARY HELP WITH: Special Health Concerns, Weight Loss or Gain, Sports Nutrition. FOR A FREE
APPOINTMENT CALL: EXT. 2451. Sponsored by The Student Counseling Center Dietician.
