Features ~The Davidsonian eo Ge pra 1989

Roommate blues: all is not always peachy

By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

Many strange rituals, fetishes, and somewhat unsanitary practices are carried out by almost all the students on the Davidson campus.
These individuals are not satanic worshippers or voodoo priests; they are your own dear roommates. The following is a list
of 11 funny, bizarre, and somewhat disgusting practices often indulged in by Davidson roommates.

1. Particularly annoying to the fastidious roommate is any extremely weird or disgusting habit, for hygienic or other purposes, which
your roommate has. For example, one roommate (he would not disclose his name) would gargle his mouth with salt water
to clear his throat. As a rule, a person should not make this gargler laugh as the water and mucus
in his mouth will be spit onto the mirror to harden.

2. You return from a weekend trip to find that your bed has been used. Most irritatingly, by word of
mouth, you discover your bed was used for intimate purposes.

3. You and your roommate's first class is at the same time. Central to this conflict is the fight over
the sink, with the loser in the sink battle almost invariably being late to class.

4. Beware of the roommate that speaks of “your space” and “my space”! While one should respect another’s privacy, a
roommate that unceasingly complains that your “little” slippers kept next to your closet (where they are easily accessible for the
bathroom or shower) are cluttering up the room, is a bit picky.

5. Beware of the slow awakening roommate. This person sets his watch alarm for 6 a.m. (that usually awakens you,
not him), then his alarm clock goes off at 7:30 a.m. He then proceeds to press the snooze button several
times and finally awakens at 8 a.m.

6. The roommate that constantly locks you out of your room can also be a major problem. You continuously tell
your roommate that you are taking a shower without your key and “Please don’t lock the door!” Sure enough, when
you return dripping wet, your roommate has left and locked the door. Protected only by a flimsy towel, you walk
up several flights of stairs until you eventually find an available RA. You tell the RA discreetly that you are
locked out of your room. This could be particularly disturbing if the RA is of the opposite sex.

7. Being kept awake by your “helpful” roommate and your roommate’s friends until 4 or other ghastly hour in the
morning, when you need your rest for a big exam at 8 a.m.

8. Your roommate, an aspiring Adonis, wears the same workout clothes for a whole week because he figures, “They're going
to get sweaty anyway.” You start to get disturbed when flies start congregating around his closet where he keeps his
odious workout clothes.

9. Your roommate, irritated by how long it takes you to get up and turn off your alarm, turns it
off for you. This habit of your roommate can be very annoying, causing you to miss classes and possibly a
major test.

10. Getting locked out of your room for the night, forced to sleep uncomfortably on the couch in a friend’s
room, because...Your roommate must have “fun” with his girlfriend/her boyfriend.

11. Coming into the room late one night, you discover that your roommate has an unannounced beer party. Your heart
pounds as you watch people drinking beer precariously close to your precious computer, fearing with good reason that your parents
will inflict serious pain on you if the computer is damaged.

Creative seniors furnish apartments with style
By VIRGINIA MISCHEN

The senior apartments are a hive of activity away from the hustle and bustle of campus. The administration cursed them.
Seniors desired them. People slept in lounges to obtain them.

No one else can figure out what NBB 101-B really means. What really goes on down there when the rest
of us aren’t looking? Devil worship? Study? Parties to which even the freshmen aren’t invited? I wanted the truth, but
I got Tripp Helms, Jay Schmitt, and Matt Terrell instead. Stewart Rawson was mysteriously absent, but his helpful roommates assured
me that if he had been there, he would’ve said that the best thing about the apartments was their close
proximity to the sophomore dorms.

These fine fellows are the proud occupants of what they describe as the best apartment on campus. (That’s NBC 301-C
for any freshmen girls wishing to bake them cookies or serve as their maid: two services for which they have
a dire need). The guys say that this location gives them the best view of the golf course. Living in
the apartments has given them an opportunity to brush up on their game, especially that of the midnight variety, when,
as Terrell puts it, “you can tell where your ball is by the sound it makes as it falls through
the trees.” In fact, one of their plans for improving upon the design of their dwelling place is to remove
the side railing on their balcony, so as to give them a unique angle on hole #4.

The best thing about living in the apartments? “Having your own room,” they chimed unanimously. “It's also nice having more
than one roommate,” added Terrell. However, Helms, sighing bitterly, pointed out that living “with two people who are stuck at
age 12 is a challenge, especially when one of them is a New Kids On The Block fan.”

The worst thing about living in the apartments? “The beds squeak and the walls are thin,” Jay and Tripp stated
gravely. A quick tour revealed the apartment to be spacious, with a cozy yet classy decor. Original artworks adorn the
walls, and an empty aquarium awaits the arrival of some catfish: “the only fish we can’t kill,” says Terrell.

By far, the crowning glory of the apartment is Fifi, a serving table shaped like a buxom French maid, inherited
by Helms from his cousin. Fifi is rumored to be the Homecoming date of one of the inhabitants. (We’ll let
you guess which one). Other than her date possibilities, Fifi has great significance. In a way, she symbolizes life in
Terrell, Helms, Schmidt, and Rawson's apartment, and, perhaps on a higher level, life in the senior apartments in general. Why?
Tripp, in a profound burst of wisdom, provided the answer. “I find it highly appropriate that we have in our
apartment something which someone’s wife wouldn’t let them keep in the house.”

The mystique is over! Fifi makes the senior apartment of Matt Terrell, Tripp Helms, Jay Schmidt, and Stewart Rawson unique.
Photo by Tim Dancy.
