Wofford Terriers prove a
new breed of dog this year

Davidson ends up on losing side of 51-0 score

By GIGGY MAXWELL

This past Saturday’s game, to the uninformed, might have seemed like another opportunity for a Davidson football victory. After all,
hadn’t the Wildcats split their previous four meetings with the Terriers? Wasn't that the only team Coach Gatto had beaten
prior to this year? We had the Terriers’ number. Our chances were, at worst, those of a coin flip.

You could have flipped that coin forever and it never would have come up ‘Cats as Wofford defeated Davidson 51-0.

A lot has happened over the past year and the teams that met on Saturday were two teams going in
completely opposite directions. Davidson's football program has been decimated by trustees and injuries. Only 39 players suited up for Saturday’s
game and several are now being forced to play both offense and defense.

The Terriers, on the other hand, moved to Division II from NAIA last season. That means that they can give
out even more scholarships than before. They have one of the top freshman quarterbacks in the country, regardless of Division.

When you give out scholarships you get those kind of players.

The Wildcats didn’t help themselves any by not being mentally ready for the game. On their second play from scrimmage
they were forced to use a timeout because players didn’t know where they were supposed to be. Several motion penalties
also stalled this initial drive.

When the Wildcats tried to line up for a field goal, holder Matt Matheney didn’t need much help in noticing
that there were only eight people on the field for Davidson. Their second timeout was wasted and the game wasn’t
even halfway through the first quarter of play.

When the Wildcats finally did get down to playing, they couldn’t stop any of Wofford’s backs.

At the end of the half, with the score 37-0, Wofford had already accumulated 390 yards on the ground on
their way to a 528-yard offensive effort on the day.

There were no bright spots for the Wildcats. They just picked up the pieces and drove home.

This week’s opponent, Southern Conference affiliate VMI, offers little consolation as they have been doormats for their opponents this year
and will be looking to take out a little frustration on the Davidson Wildcats.

Wednesday, November 1, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

In Good Health
What running a marathon can do?

By MARK D. PUCKETT

What I learned from running 26 miles at one time:

1) That if you walk around like you are in pain and people ask, “What's the matter?” it is cool
to say, “I ran a marathon this weekend.”

2) That the first five miles are a cake walk.

3) That the next four miles suck.

4) That the next four miles also suck.

5) That the last 13 miles suck worse than the first 13.

6) That Chris Leach will be mad if I don’t mention he ran with me.

7) That it hurts.

8) That it hurts.

9) That people will try to run you off the road if you are wearing red and black bicycle tights
and that it is not a good idea to moon them if they have a gun rack on their rear
window.

10) That I’m never doing it again.

11) That when I’m telling my grandchildren about it, and they ask, “How’d you do it, Gramps?” I will tell
them, “It was my mind. My mind, replete with temerity and tenacity, that enabled me to finish under such adverse
circumstances."

Opportunity: "a good chance for advancement or progress...a favorable juncture of circumstances." - Webster

Take this opportunity to become a Davidson College chapter member! Phi Gamma Delta: one of the most prestigious fraternities in
North America.

PHI GAMMA DELTA/FIJI

Attend our information meetings in the Grey Union, Second Floor November 6th thru 10th, 7-9 PM nightly.

Or call 896-6342 or 393-7601.

DIET QUESTIONS???
MEET

HAPPY McCRARY
Registered Dietician

HELP WITH: Special Health Concerns
Weight Loss or Gain
Sports Nutrition

FOR A FREE APPOINTMENT

CALL EXT. 2451

Sponsored by The Student Counseling Center

LONELY?
NEED A DATE?

MEET THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE TODAY!

NOT FOR COLLEGE DAYS ALONE

When you join a fraternity you join for life. The friends you make in the Fraternity will be your friends
for life.

PHI GAMMA DELTA CAN OFFER A LIFE LONG ADVENTURE.

Come meet many Fiji Graduate Brothers

November 6th thru 10th, 7-9 PM

Second floor, Grey College Union
Davidson College

Questions: 896-6342 or 393-7601

Call DATETIME!
(405) 366-6335

Can We Help?
Study skills
Time management
Stress management
Sexuality
Family issues
Relationships
Cross cultural counseling
Weight control
Career counseling
Alcohol & drug abuse

Student Counseling Center
08 Union Basement Ext. 2451
Amelia Dockery, Ph.D. Campbell Peery, M.A.
Tom Plott, Ph.D. David Staton, Ph.D.
Virginia Sykes, M.Ed. DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.

Cruise Ship Jobs Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS. TOUR GUIDES, RECREATION PERSONNEL Excellent plus FREE travel. Caribbean, Hawaii, Bahamas, South Pacific, Mexico.
CALL NOW! Call refundable.

1-206-736-0775, Ext. 1726

Jobs in Alaska LOGGING, TOURISM, CONSTRUCTION up to $600 weekly, plus FREE room and board. CALL NOW! Call refundable.

1-206-736-0775, Ext. 1726H
