12

Morris, players react to recent basketball decisions
By JOHN BURNS and JAY CHAUDHURI

Reactions to the news of Bruce Elder’s probable departure were mixed this week. Two players and Athletic Director Christopher B.
“Kit” Morris talked to The Davidsonian.

Davidson’s freshman big man Paul Drobnitch said that he “was disappointed” when he first heard of Elder’s likely transfer. “He
and I had become pretty good friends,” said Drobnitch. “I think most of the players on the team would say
that they were disappointed to see him go... he got along well with the rest of the team.” Paul Drobnitch,
#35.

Drobnitch said that he sensed no resentment on the team. “We wish him well,” he affirmed. Drobnitch also pointed out
that although Elder led the team in scoring “we still have a lot of talent, without him we’re not lost,
we’re not going to be pitiful.”

Surprisingly, we were able to reach Morris on a nice, sunny day like Wednesday. “We have left this up to
Bruce,” he commented. “It’s the same kind of thing about anyone making this kind of decision, and out of necessity,
a selfish one.” Morris went on to state that Elder’s best self-interest is the most important factor. “Obviously, we would
hope that that would be to stay at Davidson,” he added.

Junior Maurice Gray was quiet and reserved but commented, “I think that his decision to leave was one of his
choice... how it will affect the team, that remains to be seen. I don’t think we’ll have any problems, we
have a lot of talent.” Magic Gaines refused to comment.

According to Morris, the search committee had made some progress on finding a new coach, but he declined to give
any names. He claimed that it is “in our best interest” to name a new coach by the end of
the school year. He also anticipates “many more long nights at the office before this thing is over.”

Gray gave no specifics on his idea of a good coach. “I just want to play basketball,” he said. One
thing is for sure: in this, the final issue of the 88-89 Davidsonian, we can safely predict that there are
few sports.

In Good Health
Monday, April 24, 1989
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Don’t wind-up a lobster gargoyle
By MARK PUCKETT

Scene: E.H. Little Library, 1st Floor

A large, white textbook sat in her lap. She underlined it diligently with a pink highlighter. Her face looked different,
inhuman. I moved nearer with interest. At her carrel, she looked at me and smiled. The whiteness of her teeth
contrasted warmly with the fiery, unnatural redness of the face. She resembled a lobster gargoyle. I stared rudely.

“What happened to you?” I asked. “What happened to your face?”

“I sunbathed today at the lake,” she replied.

“For how long?”

“Well, we left around 1:00 and stayed until 3:00 or so. I guess we were in the sun for a
couple of hours. But since I’m not gonna get the chance to sit out anymore this week, I squeezed as
much as I could into today.”

“I thought that you were supposed to tan gradually...”

“If you use baby oil, you can tan pretty quickly,” she retorted.

“Why don’t you use sunscreen?” I asked.

“I’m not a kid anymore.”

“Don’t you know when you tan between12 and 3 o’clock in the afternoon—doused in baby oil—you are inviting the most
intense ultraviolet rays of the day?” The girl leered at me. If she was embarrassed, I couldn’t tell. Her face
had been consistently red throughout the conversation. “Leave me alone,” she said. “I have to study.” She buried her nose
back into her large, white textbook. I left the library after gathering my books. While I walked outside, I thought
of her getting skin cancer. And dying. I don’t suppose she cared, though. She believed that the sun gods had
embellished not only her meager looks with their gift of light, but her personality as well. At age 30, however,
her skin would suffer. “Right now,” I said to myself, “she must concentrate on her new sunburn, for eventually it
will evolve into a temporary tan.”

GOLF, from page 10

77 on a rather windy day. The 313 score by Davidson is one of the lowest point totals for the
golf team in the past years and is indicative of the potential for the golf team’s improvement. Weather on the
third day was beautiful, and this would be the only tournament the Cats would play under good conditions. Grainger followed
his first two rounds of 78 and 79 with a solid 75 earning himself a top 20 finish individually. He
completed the round with ten straight pars after a string of three bogies. The fine team score, a three-day total
averaging under 80 shots per round, put the Cats eighth out of 15 teams. Given the quality of competition, it
was an excellent finish. The final tournament was at Campbell University. The team was hurt by the absence of Fiore,
Leonard, Maggart, and Prince although Sean O’Neill, Curtis Ott, and Ed Powell courageously substituted. Carlock, in his last tournament for
Davidson, shot 79-78-84, a solid performance typical of his four good years in the starting lineup. Grainger also played well,
shooting 79-74-75 and finishing 13th in the tournament. Despite the sour finish, the golf team fared well this spring. They
were competitive against Navy, Appalachian State, and USC-Spartanburg. At the Richmond tournament, Grainger beat the entire Duke team in the
first round. The losses of seniors Carlock and Prince will hurt the Cats next year. Carlock gave Davidson four good
years of golf, serving as captain for a year and playing number one man often. Prince grew as a golfer
at Davidson, developing an uncanny “pipeline” accuracy to improve his game. Returning for Davidson, however, are four players—Grainger, Fiore, Leonard,
and Maggart. Grainger had his best year at Davidson, averaging about 76 and not shooting over 80 in any of
his last 10 rounds. Fiore, Leonard, and Maggart also played well this spring. The golf team has gradually become competitive.
Newly-appointed coach Slagle has helped foster the players’ potential by intensifying practices, and a positive golfing infrastructure is being established
with the support of Tom Rogers, golf pro at the Charlotte Country Club. If the team stays dedicated, continues on
its current path, and is given increased support from the athletic department, it should become a strong intercollegiate team.

Forget Chews! Go to the Beach! The Ole Five Ounce, And Freddie's Famke class in pretty badd.
