"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXII NUMBER 3

Scores Down on 1990 Freshman International Geography Test

By CHARLES GRIER

The results of the International Awareness test that freshmen took during orientation are back. The mean score for the group
of 393 was 50.4, down from 56.5 last year. Although the scores are down from last year, German and Humanities
professor Hansford Epes believes the results do not necessarily reflect a decrease in awareness.

“I don’t think that the lower average means a whole lot,” said Epes. "The test is different and may have
been a little bit harder. I was kind of appalled that two incoming freshmen managed to make a 4, which
is the lowest score I have seen in 9 years. There is no excuse for freshmen to make below a
12. The high score was 92."

Students performed better on the geographical awareness section of the test, compared to previous years, according to Epes. “On the
map part, relative to 8 and 9 years ago, there is some evidence that people are coming in with better
knowledge of geography. There has been so much screaming over geography that it has affected high schools,” Epes said.

Even though scores are above average, the International Awareness Committee will be visiting with the freshman halls to promote awareness.
“The International Awareness Committee will have teams of visitors going to freshman halls explaining why international awareness is important. The
visits are more important than the test,” Epes said.

Freshman Chris Cobb believes that involvement in groups such as the International Committee will help increase awareness. “I’m a member
of the International Committee," said Cobb, "so maybe through that I will get more people interested in general."

Epes believes that another way for students to become more aware is by reading newspapers. “The only thing we have
found to improve awareness is the habit of reading good newspapers. It should be part of what you do every
day,” Epes said. "Every day."

Fraternities Violate Rush Policy

By LISA GERRARD

The month-long wait is over for freshmen—this weekend they party on the Court for the first time, and Davidson’s seven
fraternities begin rushing new members. Students at most other colleges and universities have already begun the rush season, but at
Davidson the process is a little different. Or is it?

Officially, rush begins this weekend, but in the past month the dean’s office has blown the whistle on what many
are calling “pre-rush” fraternity parties. “Basically it’s subversive activity,” said Dean Will Terry. “It all comes from the unwillingness to
just leave freshmen alone for four weeks, and from the fear of somebody getting the jump on them.”

Rush parties during the first month of school are violations of Patterson Court policy, but reports indicate that every fraternity
is breaking the rule in some way. The parties first attracted the administration’s attention a few days after classes began,
when a so-called pre-rush party in basement Belk got out of hand and the fire alarm was pulled.

See VIOLATION? Page 2

Inside The Davidsonian
News 2 | Opinions 5
Medical Rachel Starmer Humanities Rebuts Ormand
Campus Living 7 | Sports 10
A Guide to Men's Soccer Defeats Duke. Yeah. Patterson Court

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990

Photo by Beth Pharr
Rob Ukrop gives Ross Saldarini an elated high five after scoring against South Alabama on Saturday. The Cats won 4-1
and also defeated Duke on Wednesday. They are ranked 7th in the South with a 7-1 record. See SPORTS.

Magazines Praise the College

By TRENT STEVENS

As if the numerous existing rankings were not enough, two more publications have...reaffirmed Davidson’s lofty standing among the nation’s academic
powerhouses. This past June, Fortune magazine conducted a survey of 1,891 CEOs of Fortune 500 and Service 500 companies, asking
them where they went to college and what they studied. Out of 1,500 replies, three were from Davidson alumni. When
the magazine compared the number of replies received to the average size of the graduating class in the 1950s, when
the majority of the present CEOs are believed to have graduated, Davidson’s resulting “Power Factor” was the seventh highest of
any American school, behind only those of Yale, Princeton, Washington & Lee, Harvard, Dartmouth, and Northwestern.

The Money Guide, which is a special fall issue of Money magazine, took a different tack. The authors determined how
much each school would be expected to cost, based on 17 academic performance measures, and then compared that figure to
its actual cost, disregarding possibilities for in-state tuition breaks and scholarships. The Money Guide rankings, which divided the 100 top-ranked
public schools from the 100 highest-ranked private schools, placed Davidson in 41st place. According to their analysis, the highest-ranked public
school is the New College of the University of South Florida and Cooper Union is the top-ranked private school. Some
of the other schools that ranked higher than Davidson included Bellarmine (10th), Duke (29th), Fisk (6th), Wake Forest (25th), and
Meredith (19th). Some of the schools that ranked lower included Stanford, Harvard (50th), Swarthmore (76th), and Pomona (69th). However, the
authors emphasized that the college shopper should consider many other criteria before making a final choice.

Other ratings, such as those by Edward B. Fiske and U.S. News and World Report, also cater to the college-bound
student. But as John Kelton, who is director of Institutional Research and a Psychology professor, notes, “My guess is that
very few decisions to attend college are based on these surveys.” He adds, “It (a survey) may bring Davidson to
the attention of some who might not otherwise know it, but decisions that students make about attending are made on
the basis of more personal, first-hand information.” But this view is not totally unanimous. “People who have been here have
their own opinions,” says Bill Giduz, director of College Relations. “To people who have not been here, it (a survey)
leaves a certain impression.”

Despite their inherent drawbacks, these rankings may have become a factor in prospective students’ decisions to apply to schools. According
to dean of admissions Eleanor Payne, such surveys have a definite impact on the number of applications for admission. “Positive
articles about the college always generate additional inquiries and interest, which often are then turned into applications,” she affirms.

Campus Crime Report

Three bicycles were reported stolen in the month of August. One was stolen from its rack near Belk West, even
though the owner was using a bicycle lock. Two unsecured bicycles were also stolen, one from Cannon South and one
from PAX. Four break-ins or larcenies also occurred in August. The Union, which was locked at the time, was broken
into by intruders who entered the Book Store and the Cafe in an incident that is still under investigation. Two
rooms on the second floor of Sentelle were also illegally entered. Also, one room on Mary Irwin Belk’s first floor
was broken into. Two locked cars in Lingle Manor’s parking lot were broken into in August. An attempted break-in at
the Baker Sports Complex was unsuccessful, but the would-be intruder broke a window in the process. In recent weeks numerous
prank calls have pervaded the campus.

See PRANK CALL Page 2

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
