THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

Living

Photo by Pun Kin

Dr. John Williamson of the Biology department reveals a little-known aspect of his personality, his green thumb.

Williamson Disproves His Tough Image

By BENNETT WATERS:

“Big, intimidating, mean and tough” is how Dr. John Williamson thinks he is viewed by others. However, many fail to see the real person underneath the brazen exterior. In reality, he is about as far from big and mean as he can be. The intimidation students feel in his presence probably comes from the talk of others. His toughness, however, is genuine.

Williamson grew up in Clarkton, N.C., and at age thirteen worked as a sharecropper on a tenant farm to help pay the bills. After high school, he received a Bachelor of Science in Agriculture from North Carolina State University. After college, he earned his Master's degree at Cornell, and later a Doctorate in Zoology at Georgia. He has since done post-doctoral work at Oak Ridge and the University of California at Riverside.

Williamson joined the Davidson biology department in 1981 after twelve years at the University of Calgary. Williamson says he “always had an interest in a small college with some quality and more importantly, good students.” In the back of his mind was a desire to return to North Carolina, and Davidson offered the opportunity for all of these.

Williamson’s field of specialty is genetics, and he has worked extensively with Drosophila fruit flies. His research time at Davidson is limited, but he uses his summers to continue his experiments.

If there is one problem Williamson has, it’s his image. Most students only see or hear of him, and he thinks that the students who talk about his “meanness” are either people who have never had him, or people that haven’t bothered to get to know him. When asked if he was really big, intimidating, mean and tough, Williamson laughed and replied: “Not at all. I really don’t understand it. I’m the most helpful guy on campus. I think if I were 5’8" I wouldn’t have that reputation.” He was told recently that a large group of people were debating what God would look like if He appeared. Williamson laughed, and said, “I won!”

Perhaps the most unknown side of Williamson is his green thumb. He says it’s “a hobby that’s gotten out of hand.” Williamson raises over 650 different varieties of azaleas alone. He says that the “physical, mental and social therapy” is what he enjoys most. “After working from 7:45 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. at night every day, I need some time away from people.”

I asked Williamson to pick three words that describe him clearly. He replied, “industrious, positive and demanding.” When asked to describe himself as a breakfast cereal, Williamson chose 40% Bran Flakes. “I’ve been eating them for years, and they’ve been the same all the time. They have a strength of character and a consistency that I like.”

Davidson was apparently the right career choice for Williamson. “When I sit down at night, and I’m tired, I think...and I’m happy. It’s almost scary to be this comfortable. I’ve never been happier.”

See Page 11.

Davidson Students Bike Cross-Country for a Cause

By ELIZABETH HOWE

Two Davidson students, junior Carol Hancock and sophomore Carlton Craig, “saw America” this summer. However, they didn’t exactly do this in a slow, relaxed manner. Instead, Hancock and Craig biked approximately 3,600 miles across the country, and they did it within the space of nine weeks.

These two Davidson students participated in Bike Aid, a fundraiser sponsored by the Overseas Development Network (ODN), which is a student-run organization based in San Francisco, California. The ODN accepts proposals for small, self-help development projects to be implemented at the grass-roots level both in the United States and in nations of the Third World. These proposals are submitted by people who actually reside in the areas needing assistance. As Craig commented, “the community knows what it needs best.”

The ODN does not provide relief in the form of food or monetary aid to these communities; instead, it sends personnel and materials to the areas in need so that the people living there can learn skills that will help them become more actively involved inpromoting the development of their community. Hancock and Craig first heard of Bike Aid through Craig’s brother, David, who attends Wake Forest University. They joined with 117 other people who were interested in this program; and on June 20, they set off from Portland, Oregon, the starting point on their cross-country route. They averaged riding 75 miles per day on their trek, with Hancock going as far as 113 miles and Craig going as far as 130 miles in one day. Their group stopped at almost every town it reached, even ones with populations as small as ten.

INDIANA STATE LINE
Photo Courtesy of Carol Hancock
Junior Carol Hancock and sophomore Carlton Craig take a break during their 63-day, cross-country bike trip to help others.

Along the way from Portland to Washington, D.C., their final destination, Hancock and Craig’s group of 22 bikers stopped once a week for a “rest day.” On these days, the group would work all day on one or more service projects. For example, they painted a gray schoolhouse in Boise, Idaho, for sexually and physically abused children. They also worked with the U.S. Forestry Service in Jackson, Wyoming, to rebuild mountain bike trails. This helped the Forestry Service obtain a federal grant. In addition, the group stayed on a Sioux Indian reservation in South Dakota, which is plagued with 80 percent unemployment. This community is considered the most violent Indian reservation in the United States.

Though the ride across the nation was often grueling for the bikers, Carol asserted that “the first week of biking was the toughest.” They biked across both the Rocky and Appalachian Mountains, and they rode for six miles on a stretch that was a 10 percent grade, which Hancock and Craig both agreed was extremely difficult. They also agreed that the downhill portions of the trip were exhilarating. While riding down the Teton Pass, for example, Craig attained a speed of 51.5 miles per hour.

On August 21, when other Davidson students were attending their first classes of the fall term, Hancock and Craig and the rest of their group reached Washington, D.C. after having ridden for 63 straight days. While they admitted that there were a few minor problems along the way, both Hancock and Craig found their involvement to be extremely rewarding. “You learn a whole lot about yourself” while working with a diverse group of people devoted to a “common cause,” said Craig. Hancock added that she discovered that she could “really do something significant for other people” and “help a lot of people in the long run” through Bike Aid. Individuals interested in Bike Aid should contact Hancock at -6257 or Craig at -6159.

New Vagabonds Student Group Boosts Theater Awareness
By KATE DUNLOP

Founded by Professor of Theater Rupert Barber to “bolster and support additional opportunities for theater participation and experience on the campus,” the New Vagabonds is a new theater group on campus this year. For the past month, thirteen interested students have been meeting once a week with Barber to organize the basic plan for membership, officers, and committee structure. After Fall Break, the group will have a general meeting for all interested students. Soon after, on October 15 and 16, auditions will be held for “Loot,” the British dark comedy that the New Vagabonds is sponsoring. Auditions are open to all students, and a copy of the script is on reserve in the library for those interested.

“The core of the organization will basically be in the community structure,” said Barber. “Hopefully in the near future, the New Vagabonds will be almost all student-run and produced.” The theater group plans to offer opportunities for students to participate in all aspects of the theater, including acting, directing, writing plays, and theater management. To encourage busy students to become involved, most studio theater productions will be short-term, spanning no more than three weeks. Students will be required to commit to a certain job for only one project at a time.

Because of the limited facilities for theater at Davidson, the New Vagabonds was also founded with the intention of doing theater that could be produced in innovative spaces. “We want to experiment with space and different locations. Right now, ‘Loot’ is... See Page 11.