6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1990

Sara Carlson
Hairy Legs, California and Proud of It

I love not shaving my legs at Davidson. The stereotypes surrounding the “hairy mentality” are fun to disprove. It is similar to being a Californian on a campus full of people whose only exposure to the state is through movies and television. Those of us who are neither Yankees nor Southerners, don’t know exactly what the Confederate flag looks like, much less what it means, and have enjoyed avocados since teething, have been spoon-fed misconceptions about the South rivaled only by the misconceptions dished out regarding our own state.

Usually, when people think of California they come up with one of two pictures. Either an enormous neon and pavement strip full of confused plastic people crawling the malls in search of the perfect ensemble to wear to their next therapy or studio meeting caps to mind, or a tan, blonde, granola-munching surfer dude lighting up a joint in a redwood hot tub floats before the eyes. Somehow, all of the images are on roller skates. Usually, we’re freaked out (or, like, totally chilled) about the latest earthquake, which we discuss in detail while lying out cultivating the kind of tan to make The Beach Boys swoon.

I get even more confused glances because I grew up near San Francisco. I’m a dyke, right? Aren’t all Those Kind of People activists, on one-person Crusades to change the world (like me)? Aren’t all assertive women who refuse to be embarrassed by locker room humor and pinch back when grabbed by drunk men man-hating lesbians who took a wrong turn on their way to Smith College and accidentally landed down at a party on Patterson Court?

Fuzzy legs, my statehood, and the fact that I refuse to eat the flesh of animals raised in the confines of agribusiness interests make me a little less than average around here. I am definitely not complaining. What most people don’t realize is that I enjoy constantly having my regional prejudices proved wrong. And I enjoy even more changing other people’s perceptions.

My not shaving has very little to do with High Ideals and a lot to do with Laziness. I do believe that a woman has the right to look how she pleases without the need for outside, male confirmation of beauty, but I also believe that using not shaving as an instrument of intense self-assertion is a bit of a cop-out. When I start asserting people will know, whether my legs are hairy or not. But I kind of like hairy legs. So I don’t shave. I know some women who find them totally gross. So they shave. Big deal. They feel good about themselves, I feel good about myself, and everybody is happy.

The California thing is equally casual. Other than being spoiled by a ready supply of garlic and artichokes every summer (they are the main agricultural products of the farms in the areas surrounding my hometown), I grew up similarly to most of my East Coast friends. Granted, we have a lot more traffic, immigration, smog, political parties, and successful baseball teams than our national counterparts, but I didn’t try tofu until I went to college, either.

If anybody had mentioned “The South” to me two years ago I would have pictured muscular rednecks cruising around in jacked-up pickups chewing tobacco and wearing overalls. What a pleasant surprise to be surrounded by well-educated, open-minded people in Duck pants who consistently use the multi-purpose word “y’all” outside of Latin class (as in, “Y’all will conquer Gaul”), without being self-conscious. Sure, I’ve met some rednecks, and plastic people and surfer dudes went to my high school, but my “out-of-state experience” has allowed me to value the complexities inherent in a nation populated with so many different kinds of people, holding lots of wrong ideas about everyone else’s lifestyle.

3) Flattery works.
4) The English department has, without question, the coolest professors. (See number 3)
5) Cheesy pickup lines actually work at court parties, as anyone who’s ever said “Golly, this warm Busch beer is really lousy, I’ve got some longnecks up in my room” will tell you.
6) Dirty jokes, however, don’t. (i.e. Spare yourself the embarrassment by holding back the rather obvious lines about warm Busch and longnecks.)
7) Popping ‘round Dr. Kuykendall’s house for cocktails at 3 a.m. on a weeknight will get you a great reputation with the Davidson administration, especially if it’s right before the Trustee’s Weekend.
8) It is perfectly acceptable for students to “borrow” a Cushman from the public safety office when you need to make a late-night run to the Union for smokes. (Trust me, the police don’t mind a bit.)
9) Nothing impresses senior women at Davidson more than when drunk freshmen guys turn up—uninvited attheir apartment in search of play. 10) Never call your female professors “honey.”

The Middle East
Continued from Page 5

extraneous element in the present crisis. In fact, these conflicts lie, as I see it, at the heart of all the developments in the Middle East. The West has been drawn into yet another dilemma as a result of ethnocentricity and ignorance. People have never felt the need to learn about the Middle East because the pro-Israeli groups in the US have taken care of that: Arabs are “barbarians,” “fanatics,” and “terrorists,” and Israel, with the help of the US, is working to teach us how to be “civilized” and democratic people. Of course, it is not uncivilized and undemocratic to intervene in the affairs of South and Central America and prop up dictators like Chile’s Pinochet and use force to remove others like Noriega. Or to support apartheid in South Africa by selling the “democratic” government arms, or to back, economically and militarily, the Marxist regime of Lieutenant Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam in Ethiopia. But at least in these cases, the American people sympathize with and support the common people in their struggle against injustice. This is not the case with the common people in the Middle East; they are victims, blamed by the entire world for the actions and words of a few power-hungry leaders like Saddam Hussein.

Saddam Hussein does not care that his actions are going to lead to more suffering by Arab people all over the world. He could care less about the evils being committed against Arab-Americans in the United States. These Arabs left their countries only to have their lives threatened, their houses damaged, their car tires slashed, and worst of all, their children alienated in school. But that is alright because their brothers and sisters at home have had to live through worse economic and social injustices. Now they might have to live through yet another war so that Americans can continue to prosper on their behalf. The Arab people would not want that. It would mean Americans would have to live more like they do. It would also mean that the United States would not be able to give Israel enough money to commit more violence against us.

Big Brother (Uncle Sam), who has always prided himself on listening to the people, did not give the Arabs a chance to come up with a diplomatic solution, and entered a region where He is not well liked (I wonder why) and where the form of government is one which He has always denounced. Somehow all those cherished democratic values seem to disappear when His economic interests are at stake. Thomas Friedman put it so well when he said, “In the last 50 years the United States, whatever its oratory, has tended to support democracy when it serves the interests of stability and to back away from insisting on it when it could destabilize an area of national interest... To expect the United States to begin promoting democracy in the Arab world may be a bit too much to ask.” (New York Times, “Curiously, a Dictator...”, September 2, 1990)

I feel the Arab leaders could have resolved this problem amongst each other, and it could have possibly led to some real reforms in the Arab world. But when the United States decided to move a quarter of a million troops into the area, Saddam Hussein knew that this would be just the thing to mobilize the masses behind him. If you were one of those farmers in Shaqra, what would you do if you had a choice between Saddam Hussein, who is telling you that he is willing to rid you of Israel’s belligerence, or the United States, who has, for as long as you can remember, supported Israel economically and militarily? I think the answer is obvious.

The point is that America, by reverting to military action, has destroyed the possibility of a diplomatic solution. Once those troops landed in Saudi Arabia, the common Arab citizens took a position which opposed the position their respective governments had taken. So in the ensuing weeks of this crisis, put yourself in the place of that farmer and see and hear things as he would. Put yourself in the place of Mohammed El Amine, an Arab-American who is there to support the United States in a war against his brothers and sisters. Most importantly, I urge you to learn about the effects of colonialism. Learn about our literature, art, and music, our flowery language where when you greet one another you say “al salamu alaikum” (may peace be upon you) and the other replies “wa alaikum al salam” (and also upon you). I hope someone can convince the American government to listen to the common people so that such a greeting becomes a reality.

Rami El-Amine is a junior political science major.