THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990

Sports

Basketball

Photo by Beth Pharr

Paul Rybiski seems suspended as others stare stupefied in Saturday's Red-White game.

Chapin And Heuer Standout in Red-White Scrimmage

By BRUCE BALESTIER

Freshman guard Jason Zimmerman's game-winning basket gave the White team a 60-58 triumph over the Red team in the annual
intra-squad scrimmage Saturday night, the viewing public's initial look at this year’s much-improved Davidson basketball team.

Junior college transfer Jeff Chapin extended a warm welcome to the Parents’ Weekend crowd in his first appearance as a
Wildcat. The 6’9" forward buried one baseline jump shot after another for the White team, en route to 16 points
on 8-10 shooting from the field. Sophomore forward J.D. Heuer continued his bid for a spot in the starting lineup,
contributing 15 points and 7 rebounds in an impressive performance for the White squad.

On the Red side, junior rebar Paul Denmond announced to all in attendance that his steady shot is back to
normal; his 14-point effort included 3-4 accuracy from three-point range. Freshman Ron Horton demonstrated his versatility at the small forward
slot. He handed out 5 assists to go along with his 8 points, one of the assists a beautiful pass
to center Detlef Musch, who cashed it in with a thunderous dunk.

Coach Bob McKillop made clear that a freshman may possess the starting point guard slot on this year’s team, bestowing
time at the point mainly upon freshmen Pat Holloway and Jason Zimmerman for their respective Red and White teams. The
two freshmen showed both their inexperience and their bountiful talent; Holloway finished with 8 points and three assists, while Zimmerman
overcame a rocky start to dish out five assists and score five points, including the winning hoop as time expired.

The best news of the evening was that the two teams combined shot over 50% from the floor, a trick
that last year’s Wildcats never could learn. Continued success in this area should translate into marked improvement for the 1990-1991
Wildcats.

Men's Tennis

Men's Tennis Defeats UNC-C

By ROBERT GRUBB

The men’s tennis team put on an impressive performance for parents’ weekend, winning what Coach Jeff Frank called the Wildcats'
most important match of the fall season. UNC-C had beaten Davidson last spring and came into the match with few
changes in their lineup.

“We knew how tough UNC-C was, so this victory is a good indication that we are a stronger team,” said
Frank.

Led by Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer in the number one slot, the Cats responded to Frank’s concerns about their
doubles play earlier this season, winning four of the five doubles matches. Frank called the team’s performance its best of
the season. Zabell and Beyer defeated UNC-C’s number one player, Stan Cocke, and his partner, John Meyer, 6-3, 6-1.

Davidson suffered its only loss at the number 2 position with Albie Varoski and Dale Voeks falling to David Maxwell
and Stephen Murdock after winning the first set. “I think Maxwell and Murdock were their best doubles team, partially because
they’ve played together for three years,” said Frank.

Frank also praised the play of freshmen Russell Briggs and Ryan Harper. Briggs and Harper won their match at third
doubles in three sets. They lost the second set 6-2, after dominating the first set 6-1. “They [Harper and Briggs]
suffered a letdown...In the second set,” said Frank. “I told them to close down the net and play aggressively, as
they had in the first set.” The singles play was not as strong as the doubles. The Wildcats emerged from
the singles portion of the match with a 6-4 lead, with four of the victories coming from the bottom four
positions of the lineup. The four losses in the top six positions, which are normally scored in a match, concerned
Zabell. “If you only count the top six singles and first three doubles, we would have lost the match,” said
Zabell. “We’re happy with the win, but we need to look forward to the spring (where only nine matches will
be played).” Frank echoed this concern, noting that the rest of the fall season will consist mainly of playing round-robin
matches to determine the final lineup. “I want to make sure I have people playing where they should be,” said
Frank. Overall Frank was pleased with the match, and especially with the play of Zabell. “Kurtis is playing the best
tennis I’ve seen him play,” said Frank. “He has a confidence and poise on the court that make him seem
totally in control.” The team has one remaining match this fall, 2:00 p.m. Nov. 8 at Queens College.

Big South Conference Standings

M. SOCCER
Augusta 3-3-0
Radford 4-3 12-6-0
Campbell 5-1-0
Winthrop 1-5-0
Coastal Caro. 4-3 10-8-0
UNC-Ashe. 4-2-0
Baptist 0-6-0

VOLLEYBALL
Winthrop 3-4 16-3-1
UNC-Ashe. 4-2-0
Baptist 3-4 8-8-1
Radford 4-2-0
DAVIDSON 4-2-0
Augusta 0-6 12-6-2

Field Hockey

Hockey Heads To Deep South Tournament: Seeded First
By LARRY DAGENHART

Last Friday the Davidson field hockey team closed out its regular season with an outstanding record of 11-1-2 by posting
a 3-1 win over Davis and Elkins College. A flurry of scoring opened the contest; two goals were scored in
the first five minutes of play. Wildcat freshman Erin Lang knocked in the first goal from the top of the
circle on a nicely turned penalty corner. Davis and Elkins answered immediately to tie it up; the 1-1 deadlock lasted
until the half. In the second half, Davidson got goals from Gigi Cooke and Mary Russ, the latter coming in
the final two minutes of play, to finish the scoring. Davidson moves on this weekend to the Deep South Tournament
in Winston Salem. The Wildcats have a bye in the first round of the double-elimination tournament; they earned it by
previously defeating each team in the Deep South division.

Women's Soccer

Women's Soccer Finishes Season
By BRUCE BALESTIER

With wins last week at Queens and Liberty, the women’s soccer team elevated its record to 6-12-1, and continued to
show promise during a difficult September schedule. The Wildcats concluded their campaign yesterday at Gardner-Webb. Once again, senior captain Lindsey
Forsythe led the way for the Wildcats. Forsythe scored twice in a 6-1 thrashing of Queens, and twice more in
Davidson’s 3-1 snuffing of the Flames. Forsythe drew the praise of coach Diane Boettcher, who attributed the team’s turnaround to
her heady play. “Her confidence is contagious, and her leadership has given our program the boost it has needed in
our late season surge," said Boettcher.
