By ED MATTHEWS

Sophomore Kathy Beach broke her own school 3,000-meter record of 11:13.9 (set just three weeks ago) by 31 seconds, running
a 10:42.9 at Saturday’s Virginia Tech All Comers Indoor Track Meet in Blacksburg, Va.

Beach pushed the pace early in the race, reaching the 1,600-meter mark in 5:36, and held on to place second
overall.

Other exceptional performances for the women were by senior Susan Swift, putting the shot 31’4", and freshman Jennifer Brown, running
her first collegiate 800 meters in 2:33.9. The men’s team was paced by sophomore Ted Richardson’s 4:39.3 mile, freshman Ben
Wiley’s 2:44.2 1,000 meters, and senior Jay Clugston’s 9:09.5 3,000 meters.

Both the men’s and women’s teams will compete this Saturday at the Lynchburg Relays in Lynchburg, Va.

SPRING/SUMMER BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY SYMPOSIUM

Presented by International Marketing Group

STUDENTS for the ENVIRONMENT

TOPICS
* Our deteriorating environment: AIR, WATER, WASTE.
* Necessary water, air & waste management products to combat and secure our safety.
* How students fit into this leading industry in the ’90s, modest investment required.
* How you can positively affect and profit from this emerging industry during the summer.

IMACtion

Wednesday, February 14, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

First round basketball results

By QUINN McCUTCHEN
The post-season basketball tournament is underway.

Eight teams have survived the single-elimination first round with six more first-round games to be played sometime this week.

In the women’s tournament, the Sea Hags defeated B.O.Y.C. 39 to 14 and the Third Rich PO’s won the hard
way (by forfeit) over Brant’s Beauties.

The B League tournament, the largest, with 16 teams playing, saw eight games played Sunday night.

The King Cobras splattered Smegma 57 to 19, Iming moved into double-elimination play by accepting a forfeit from Los Neros,
the Moon Dogs overcame Wheatpie 38 to 35, and in an intrahall rivalry, 2nd West Ham scrambled 2nd West Eggs
77 to 24.

In Men’s A League play, Mike’s Back doubled D.F.W.B. 64 to 32 and the All Stars devastated the Docs o’
Dunk 34 to 31.

Other first-round matchups will be played this week. The Nice Guys square off against Prime Times, the Old Men face
B.O.B., Morning Dru confronts White Man’s Disease, 2nd East Belk meets Third Beast, Jerry Curl and the Activators have an
appointment with the Rimmers, and We Hope We Win will compete against the Cousins.

Rosters for spring sports can be picked up at the IMAC Bulletin Board in Chambers.

In Good Health

By MARK D. PUCKETT

In the past, any hortatory pronunciamento in In Good Health concerning women’s health has been exiguous. I suppose that I
am to blame since I write the column; and for this very reason, I’m doing everything I can to make
this week’s column replete with stuff about women, stuff like eating disorders and fashion tips—the kind of stuff that needs
attention around our institution and, if I have my way, will get it.

How you can earn $5,000 to $15,000 this summer and gain continuous residual income

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
TUESDAY, February 20th
4:30 pm
Conference Room, College Union Building

Southern Culture on the Skids

Saturday, February 17

7 p.m.—tune into WALT for a live interview and performance with the band characterized in Creative Loafing as “...a sound
that reeks of swamp gas and watermelon seeds.”

9:30—til the party dies down or 1 a.m.
