THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990 9

Marlo Cobb | The Incredible Ease of Well-Being

Nomad's Horoscopes

Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov 21): and spilling tuna-fish juice on

New Diet Pills: Wonder Drugs?

“I lost 20 pounds in 5 days! You can, too -- with new Curba-loss ...” Yeah, right. Don’t believe anything
you read about weight loss methods in the back of magazines. There are a few prescribed drugs available now which
can induce weight loss, though not quite as fast as their magazine counterparts claim to do. I believe that these
drugs are only prescribed for the morbidly obese, however, so if you’re hoping to miraculously drop your extra 10-20 pounds
with them, dream on. However, here are some of the new “wonder drugs” for the nineties:

Dead Continued from Page 7

Jerry’s delicate, fret-tickling rain imitation. On Without a Net, we give it a check plus. The second criterion is the
emotion and number of voice crackings in Bob’s screaming fit. Bob gets a flat “B”. Lastly, you count the gallons
of tears you spilt. I counted three. The only problem with this beautiful version is that it is too short
(about eight minutes) for serious torrential sobbing. The highlight of the disks is, the disk does not sound the same
as the show’s bootleg. It’s worse in that the tumultuous crowd response to Marsalis joining in and for his jam
in the song’s mid-section is filtered out but in return you get to hear everything that Branford is doing. This
includes Jerry’s cutting him off with the “Redeemer” verse. If you want to hear some astounding music get a copy
of the entire Nassau show with Branford Marsalis (Nassau Coliseum, 3/29/90).

Boring as ever, sir, only this time you hear it, the sound quality is a lot better. “Help>Slip>Franklin’s” sounds really
close to the one half of you who have read this far heard in Hampton last year (10/8/89). There are
no real highlights save its tightness through the sometimes frustrating “Slipknot.” Brent adds excellent background vocals to “Franklin’s” making me
regret a little bit what I said about him earlier. But then to shove it all the way down my
throat he sings (and plays) a nice “Dear Mr. Fantasy” right up until the end of the song when he
gets a little happy with the buttons on his boards. “Fantasy” ends the set, the two disks, and an excellent
and successful effort by the Grateful Dead. If you’re interested in hearing more music by the Grateful Dead, I suggest
the Doober’s Boot O’ the Week: Hartford, Conn. 10/14/84. Set 2.

SHORT SHOW

Widespread Panic, Colonel Hampton and the Aquarium Rescue Unit, Hot Wax 1313, 10/28/90.

“This place is packed,” said the drummer of Hot Wax to the bassist as they went to get a beer
after their last set. “Yeah,” he replied, “We packed the house.” “Let me give you a hint,” I said to
them, having just gotten a beer and heading back to my spot, “They didn’t come to see you!” Hot Wax
is not worthy of stepping on a stage where Widespread has set up. Yes, they were an opening band but
they recycled the same

Dexfenfluramine increases the body’s amount of serotonin, which is the neurotransmitter that plays a key role in appetite control. It
is available in Europe, but has not been FDA-approved yet, and probably won’t be for another 3 years. Bromocriptine had
originally been FDA-approved to treat Parkinson’s disease. This drug apparently shuts down the body’s production of fat as well. Researchers
didn’t think that this was such a bad side effect for a drug to have, and a bromocriptine pill has
been developed for use with a five-month program including blood chemistry monitoring, which costs the consumer $2000 to $3000.

Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a hormone which reduces appetite. Abnormally low levels of CCK may be one cause of anorexia; high
levels may trigger bulimia. The drug causes a temporary loss of appetite when injected into the bloodstream. The problem with
appetite-suppressing drugs, including over-the-counter ones like Acutrim which are available now, is that people usually do not overeat simply because
they are hungry. Psychological needs to eat for comfort or reward (or just because food is within sight and tastes
good) are not going to be affected byan appetite suppressant. They dazzled the house that Hot Wax thought they had
packed for an intense forty minutes. Way too short. The Unit was airtight and let fly a variety of songs
in a variety of styles. I heard heavy country and western influences mingling with progressive beats and rhythms, giving the
band an eccentricity matched only by “The Camper,” Camper Van Beethoven. Instrumentation was also as odd as the Camper’s; a
dude named Matt plucked an electric mandolin with precision and soul. The bassist deserves commendation for a) keeping bassist Chip
Petree’s mouth agape their whole show, and b) for not beating me into the speaker cabinet after I bumped into
him for the forty-third time during Widespread’s set. Widespread Panic, if they had ever been in a slump, is out
of it now. Throughout the night they jammed on and off with members of the Aquarium Rescue Unit. The show
was short thanks to Hot Wax taking up valuable time, but while it lasted it was excellent. “Space Wrangler” was
the only weak tune of the night besides a long, boring jam with the aforesaid mandoliner, Matt, but even it
buried the needle on the get-off meter. “Porch Song” emphasized transferring to another school. Love relationship is worthless. Family member
will say, “You’re adopted and we never loved you.” Spotlight on treating acne.

Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be ready for hate, war, inflation, suffering, deficit, total annihilation of the cosmos. What seems like
a good thing is actually not. Taurus involved, but only briefly enough to steal some of your money.

Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can do anything, though it is doubtful. Nobody likes you except your stuffed animals. Become
autonomous and reject completely and wholeheartedly any need for humanity.

Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Attention circles around your computer keyboard.

Gemini (May 21-June 20): You are much too cool for this world. Wisdom, beauty, excellence, triumph, and fame are in
your future. Just kidding.

Cancer (June 21-July 22): Concentrate on sense of humor. Really concentrate because you don’t have one. Change your underwear. Eat
red meat. Melt butter and drink it while it’s scorching hot.

Leo (July 23-Aug. 22): Doors previously closed are now bolted shut. Rejection is highlighted. Reputation is shot. Love relationship is
based only on a need contrived by a humanity which deems, albeit erroneously, that companionship and community are a paramount
component in bridging the unbridgeable gorge between boys and girls. Focus on nothing. Nobody is in your picture.

Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Watch out for stray bullets
and fire-arrows. Don’t treat your puppy like a dog: give him Puppy Chow.

Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You’ll trip over your shoelaces, you’ll miss the starting gun, you’ll forget to bring the macaroni
to the family reunion. Short-term goals are unreachable. Long-term goals are nowhere near.

Aries (March 21-April 19): Give up now. Scenario features nothing. As far as anyone is concerned, you never existed.

Taurus (April 20-May 20): Individual will say, “I love you.” You will punch individual. Capricorn plays major role by turning
you in for an honor violation.

Libra (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Generally lazy. The world is your oyster. Emotionally squid-like. Vapid, spineless, airheaded. Don’t let the world
get you down! Thorough waste of flesh. You’re the best. Sell your soul and buy a new one.

CATCH: twelve-bar blues over and over and called it “original.” They did the late Stevie Ray Vaughan a great disservice
by covering “Cold Shot” and “Werewolves of London” was supposed to be a sing-a-long led by their dork keyboardist but,
Praise Allah! nobody cooperated. Their show prompts one to ask, “On what day did the Lord create [Hot Wax] and
couldn’t He have rested on that day too?”

The Colonel (Bruce Hampton) and his Aquarium Rescue Unit and the song about measuring one’s height by immersing oneself in
a river (I forgot its name) were warm-ups for a “Pigeons” like I’ve never heard and the song of the
night, “Love Tractor,” that went on a good fifteen minutes. The closing tune was a breathtaking “Chilly Water,” that left
all the Wildcats in attendance screaming back to their parents.

Slightly salted (from the Rockumentary Spinal Tap). It’s the Monday Night Football Meal Deal. Only from Domino’s Pizza! CALL US!
896-8007
