me ignoring James in the family room wouldn’t hear. He just smiled. “Well, I thought I wanted to bleach my hair, but I really didn’t know what I was doing. I just filled a sink up with water, poured in a bunch of bleach, and stuck my head in. When I pulled my head back out all my hair was still in the sink—it fell out!”

“You wanted to bleach your hair?” I paused for a second. “Jesus, man, I can’t believe you’re laughing about it. Now I know why you stayed home from school today.”

He explained that he missed school not because of his lack of hair, but because they didn’t get back until late that afternoon.

“Oh, well,” I said, “you’d better come on in and show my parents.”

We turned and walked past the stairs and through the swinging double doors into the family room where my parents were watching “Jeopardy!”.

“Look what James has gone and done,” I announced.

My mom was able to hide her astonishment pretty well, but not dad. He’d been lying all the way back in the Lay-Z-Boy recliner. When James walked into the room, he pulled the lever on the side of the chair and sat up with a “doingggg!” Once upright, he just kind of stared until mom said, “Pray, James, what possessed you?”

“Well, I felt I was in need of a change. Baldness wasn’t really what I had in mind—I was trying to bleach it—but under the circumstances, I think it’ll do nicely.”

“And how do you plan to wear it?” my mother asked. Like you could “wear” a bald head the same way you wore a hairstyle. “What I mean is, will you get a hat or anything?” She was just making conversation to ease the tension my dad generated by sitting there, staring.

“Yeah, suppose I could get some hats... hey, come to think of it, I could get some wigs, too! Y'know, this could be a lot of fun, actually.”

Then my father got up and went upstairs. Kind of an awkward moment. My mom did her best to smooth things out. “Well,” she said as she stood up, “I guess we’ll let you guys watch some T.V. now. Goodnight, James.” Then she followed my dad upstairs.

I didn’t hang out with James at school as much after that. I mean, I really hated being seen with him—I’m sure you can understand that. Especially when he wore one of his wigs. He really did buy some wigs, you know. They were pretty funny, I must admit—most of them were made in the seventies and some were obviously for women—but I just couldn’t really hang out with him when he was wearing them.

Anyway, James’ hair had all grown back now. In fact, it had gone from being nonexistent to being pretty long. He had a handful of really long strands in the front done up in a thin braid that nearly reached the pages of my “Winged Words” magazine as he glanced through it. Just then my mom came down from upstairs. She was wearing one of her sweat suits. She wore nothing but sweat suits around the house since my dad died. She had three or four different ones now. James greeted her with, “Hey, excellent sweat suit!”

“Oh, thank you, James. And I like your vest. You know, not everyone can wear a vest like that.”

“Damn right,” I thought and chuckled to myself. His vest was pretty loud. The front was made from a fuzzy sort of paisley fabric that had a lot of pink and purple in it, among other colors. He wore this over a finely woven black button-down shirt with the top button fastened, according to trendy European standards. Other than that, his outfit was pretty tame for James: tattered jeans and a pair of those black work boots that the skinheads always wear in magazine pictures.

“Oh, I’m glad you like it,” he said in response to mom’s compliment. “I made it just the other night out of this stuff I found somewhere.”

“Well, it looks nice.” That was mom’s problem. She really tried a little too hard to be nice to James, to accept him. Sometimes I think maybe that’s why James is the way he is. He knows that people feel a little uncomfortable around him and then go out of their way to accommodate him. And maybe it’s because we’re next-door neighbors that she feels obligated to keep paying attention to him, I don’t know. But anyway, she was always doing stuff like inviting him over for dinner tonight. Case in point: it was mom’s idea for me and James to double date to the Senior prom. She went with us to the mall when we rented our tuxedos, too. She said she had some stuff to do out at the mall, but I think she just wanted to be there when we picked out our tuxes. Of course, James had to opt for something unusual. We walked into the formal wear shop and—well, I think it was the first time he’d ever been to rent a tux, because when the lady asked him if he was looking for anything in particular, he said, “Do you have anything from the Victorian period?” Me and my mom caught each other’s eye and smiled to ourselves. The lady said he’d have to go to a costume shop for something like that, so he was forced to settle for a regular tux. But he fixed that as soon as we got:home. He took this big, velvet picture of Elvis’ head that he got at some garage sale and sewed it on the back of his coat. Mom thought that was pretty funny. In fact, she even made some joke about us both going in matching “Elvis the Pelvis” tuxedos. I should have taken her up on it -- that would have surprised the hell out of her. She positively couldn’t stand to see me go to the prom wearing something like that. The prom itself went pretty well—we had a great time. James’ girlfriend was surprisingly normal. Or at least she acted that way.

“Hey James, are you still going out with that girl you took to the prom?”

“Stace? No, we’re not really happening anymore.” He glanced down at the magazine in his hands, “I used her for a character in my story, though, so it’s kind of a good thing we’re not still going out. You should never write stories about people you have to talk to every day.”

“Oh James—your story.” My mom broke in, “I read it this afternoon. It’s wonderful! And congratulations on winning the contest. You should really be proud of that.”

“Well, I didn’t really win, I got second place.”

“Sure; you won second place... And I think that’s quite an accomplishment.” There she went again. Sometimes I wondered if he knew she wasn’t being completely sincere with him. I doubt it. And it could be sort of amusing to watch the two of them talk.

“While you two are on the subject of great creative works, you should take James up to see the painting.”

“Oh, of course. Would you like to see it, James?” They were walking out of the room as she explained how she’d always wanted to buy a painting. “But Carl was never very big on the idea,” she said as they were climbing the stairs. “But then, after he died, I thought maybe I should go ahead and get one. So a few weeks ago Marshall and I went . . .” At that point they went into her bedroom and I couldn’t hear them anymore, but she was telling him how we went to Charlotte to buy the painting. There’s a painter near Charlotte named Arthur Curtis who my mom had always liked. He’s pretty famous now and a few galleries in Charlotte have a lot of his stuff. It's really a bummer that she didn’t get one of his paintings a long time ago while he was still alive, because he wasn’t very well known then.

Recess

A two beer lunch at a greasy spoon and I am slightly drunk
Surprised as she climbs up to perch on the barstool beside me
I smell the yellow playground dust still hanging on her skin, she
Singing, clutching dollar bills, and I wondering if the two loud
Bastards at the end of the bar always start drinking at noon
And where she got the money.
“I’ll be dead.” she said, and confused I look not at her eyes
But hard at the red and blue barrettes that hold her hair
As she says “I'll be dead and gone before they bring
Gone before they bring my grilled cheese sandwich.” and I notice
The barmaid looking close to see if I’m that kind and what this little
Black girl is doing in a bar.
“I’m already dead, in second grade dead is gone and dead.
They gon’ bring that sandwich to my grave.” and when it arrives
I am drunk enough to be surprised as she looks up to me
Slides off her seat
And wanders back to school cheese already making
Little stains between the napkins skipping
“Dead and gone, dead and gone
Before they bring my sandwich.”
—Peter Tavernise, ‘90

and we wouldn’t have had to pay near as much. But anyway, we went to Charlotte a few weeks ago and she picked one out and got it. I guess you would call it abstract. Imagine about five torn-edged strips of construction paper, each a different color of beige, stacked on top of each other so that each one overlapped the one below it by about two inches. That’s what it looked like. It was pretty big: about a foot and a half by two feet. Mom had it hanging over her bed. Before we bought it I made the lady in the gallery explain to me what it was all about. She told me when it was painted and by who and then described it using a lot of big art terms—I still remember a few of them. I sat on the couch for a few minutes till I guess I got curious about what they were talking about up there. I yelled, “Hey, exactly what’s going on up there!?” but I wasn’t sure if they heard me. So I got up, walked to the foot of the stairs, and started climbing the carpeted steps. But when I got about halfway up, I heard their voices from mom’s open room and stopped to listen.

“Yeah, I can see that,” James was saying. “Also in some ways it reminds me of cloudbanks stretching out into a horizon. But if it’s that, I wonder what the significance is of him using such unhealthy looking colors?” The lady in the gallery hadn’t mentioned anything remotely close to that interpretation, so I was a little surprised to hear mom’s excited response.

“Oh, that’s neat! I hadn’t thought about it that way. Perhaps with those colors he wanted to emphasize just what a...” I laughed to myself and started up the second half of the stairs. Mom was humoring James again.
—Randy Lewis, ‘91