THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990

11

New Recruits

Continued from Page 10

ago, and seems headed toward rapid improvement in its second season of varsity play. With a convincing victory over Lenoir-Rhyne Wednesday, the Davidson baseball team improved its record to 24-21-1, and remains in quest of its fourth winning season in the last five years. With the win in that game, senior ace Greg Wilcox moved his sparkling record to 11-2. A win by Wilcox over the weekend against UNCC would set a new school record for victories in a season by a pitcher. Much of the Wildcats’ success this season is due to solid defense; Davidson presently ranks 11th in the nation with a fielding percentage of .968. Senior second-baseman Mikio Aoki was recently named ECAC Player of the Week; he leads the team with a batting average of .372.

Athletic director-elect Terry Holland was in town Sunday, serving as the keynote speaker at the all-sports awards banquet. He offered some fresh thought on the future of the Wildcat athletic program: “We want to be the best we can be. But we want to do it right. By that, I mean we want to do it with dignity and integrity.” Mrs. Holland has hinted that the Hollands’ stay in Davidson may be a brief one. I’d like to offer a personal plea to Mr. Holland: say it ain’t so.

Rugby Wins Tournament

Continued from Page 10

pola joined the team as a faculty advisor/player. His contributions both on and off the field have helped the team to grow considerably. Unfortunately, he was forced to limit his fervor to the sideline when he was reminded of his age by a torn pectoral muscle.

The progress which has taken place over the course of the spring season alone has been remarkable. The self-proclaimed S+M Crew emerged from a field of 28 teams and walked away as the Bowl Champions of the Steinlager North Carolina State Rugby Tournament with a convincing 14-0 pounding of St. Andrews. UNCC handed the ‘Cats a narrow early season loss, but were, nonetheless, impressed by the team’s talent. Duke, too, proved to be an insurmountable foe; they won 17-9 at a crowded Spring Frolics game. But the Crew was again victorious against St. Andrews, winning 9-6 in a mid-week home game.

With enthusiasm so high, and close games a constant, the team looks forward to an even stronger season next year. New players have quickly become addicted to the game, and returning players are as devoted as ever. New players have discovered that the fun comes not only from the game, but from the post-game celebrations as well (regardless of the score). Injuries have remained remarkably low this year; no player has been injured for more than a one or two week period. The team thanks all of our faithful supporters (over 100 at the Duke game) and encourages all that are interested to come out next year either to play or watch. If you have any questions about playing next year, please contact Tim Harris at -6194.

Read Balestier

Most Improved: John Moss

Tommy Peters Award: Greg Wilcox
Thomas D. Sparrow: Jay Clugston
Susan K. Roberts Award: Peggy Tietgen
David Parrott Memorial: Josh Wheliss

MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
Most Valuable Runner: Chris Otrok
Thomas D. Sparrow Award: Jay Clugston

FIELD HOCKEY
Most Valuable Player Offense: Gigi Cooke
Most Valuable Player Defense: Jennifer Roos

1989-90 Athletic Awards

Douglas J. Neil Courage Award: Lee Wagner
Top Newcomer: John Bodkin

MEN'S SOCCER
Most Valuable Player: Tracy Hankins
Coach's Award: Scott Poisson
Academic All American (3rd Team): Tracy Hankins

WRESTLING
Charles W. Parker Award: Joe Binns
Most Outstanding: Chris Clark

WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY
Most Valuable Runner: Kathy Beach
John F. Patterson Award: Kathy Beach
Most Improved: Sarah Sadowski

BASEBALL
Fielding Clark MVP: Greg Wilcox
Rick Smyre Hustle Award: Mikio Aoki
George Weicker Rookie Award: Robert Eenhoorn

MEN'S BASKETBALL
Harry Fogleman Coach's Award: Tim Hagood
Dr. Mike Derian Attitude Award: Charles Jordan

WOMEN'S TENNIS
Most Valuable Player: Mary Beth Ruth
Most Improved Player: Susan Criscione
Vinson's Coach Award: Tina Laidlow

MEN'S TRACK
William A. Merchant III High Point Trophy: David Murray
Robert A. Fetzer Most Valuable: Jay Clugston
Most Improved: Chris Otrok

WOMEN'S TRACK
High Point Award: Heather Tarpley
Most Valuable: Kathy Beach
Coach's Award: Marjorie Havighurst

FOOTBALL
John M. Belk MVP: Alan Hunter
Robert McLeod Defensive Award: Darry Strickland
Most Improved: Jennifer Brown
Wildcat Award: Catherine Turner
W. Lewis McColgan MVP Defense: Michael Rogers
W. Lewis McColgan MVP Offense: Ralph Isneria
G.M. King Academic Award: Harry Schiavi
Fuller Memorial Award: Harry Schiavi
D.G. Martin Hustle Award: Jay Schmitt
Most Outstanding Freshman: Detlef Musch
Basketball Academic Award: A.J. Morgan

MEN'S TENNIS
Rob Palmer MVP: Albie Varoski

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Most Valuable: Mimi Plauche
Most Improved: Jennie Wagner

GOLF
Elgin White MVP: Gates Grainger

Discover a challenging future with opportunities for professional growth. Serve your country while you serve your career with:

- great pay and benefits
- normal working hours
- complete medical and dental care
- 30 days vacation with pay per year

Find out how to qualify for today’s Air Force.

Call

Allied Health Professionals

STEP UP TO TODAY’S AIR FORCE.

SGT JIMMY SUMMERVILLE

Station-To-Station Collect

704-377-1812