A farewell to b-ball seniors, p. 8

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 19

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, March 7, 1990

Raffle to raise money for local day care center

Prizes include Herb Jackson original, books

By JAY J. CHADHURI

An Endowment Benefit for the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center will be held on March 24 from 8 to 11 p.m.
at the Vail Commons. The Endowment Fund will help guarantee “the future of Mecklenburg County’s only entirely community-supported, non-profit day
care center.”

Money will be raised by selling raffle tickets that will feature the following 15 prizes contributed by Davidson professors, coaches,
and other members of the community:

- Art Professor Herb Jackson has contributed Ice Cap, an original framed etching.
- Leo Driehuys, conductor of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, will invite the winners and a few of their friends for
an evening of music, discussions, and cocktails.
- Betty Casey, former owner of La Toque Blanche/The Chef’s Cap, will cook a French-styled dinner for four people.
- Irvin and Annette Brawley will teach shag lessons in preparation for either an April or May weekend at a
beach house in Holden Beach.
- Ron Chapple, well-known fashion photographer, will have a photographic portrait session.
- Coach Jeff Frank of the Men’s tennis team has offered a free week, from June 3-8, at the Wildcat
Adult Tennis Camp. This includes twenty-three hours of tennis instruction.
- Laura Grosch has contributed Parrot Tulips, a framed hand-pulled lithograph.
- Phyllis Herring of Studio Herring will design a personalized landscape for your home.
- Elizabeth Millsap has donated the Blue Ridge Garden, a framed 4-color lithograph.
- English Professor Randy Nelson will give instructions in the art of bonsai.
- Pat McCall of Fresh Innovations will assist in decorating the winner’s house with her advice and expertise.
- Art Professor Russ Warren has donated a framed suite of three small prints: Bulldog, Steer, and Judas Bull.
- A Saturday morning soccer clinic for eight children will be taught by Men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle.
- Music Professor James Swisher, accompanied by members of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, will perform a chamber music concert.
- Twenty-five autographed books by Davidson authors.

Tickets can be purchased at the Christa Faut Gallery on Main Street, Davidson or can be ordered by mail by
sending $10.00 for each ticket to:
Day Care Endowment Benefit
P.O. Box 27
Davidson, N.C. 28036

Tony Abbott, Herb Jackson, Laura Grosch, Phyllis Herring, and Betty Casey have all joined forces and contributed prizes to raise
money for the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center.

Photo courtesy of College Relations

Ads stress women as sex objects, powerless

Kilbourne says such campaigns are Killing Us Softly

By SANDRA SMITH

Killing Us Softly, a film addressing the portrayal of women and sexuality in advertising, and Calling the Shots, a film
focused primarily on the alcohol industry and its ad campaign, were two films by Jean Kilbourne discussed last night in
the 900 Room. The event, sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee, enjoyed a large audience and earnest discussion led by
Davidson professors Rosemarie Tong of the Philosophy Department and Ed Palmer of the Psychology Department.

The films were both humorous and yet serious in revealing the need to understand propaganda and subtle cultural messages that
we as a society of consumers encounter. Perhaps one of the most horrible and myth-producing media advertisements shown was one
that proclaimed, “Feminine odor is everybody’s problem.”

In Killing Us Softly Kilbourne makes the claim that there is a relationship between advertising and a pornographic attitude that
exists in our society. Moreover, she suggests that the attitude toward women’s bodies portrayed in ads is damaging to both
sexes—that is, the relationship between the unrealistic notion that ideal perfection is necessary and possible, and that this perfection is
110 lbs. of soft curves and supple rosy hips.

Kilbourne states that advertisements tend to encourage the roles of submission and passivity for women, and a role of domineering
machismo for men. She says ads present people as objects and that they replace human bodies with the products. So
many ads disassemble the total body and only show parts of a chest or a hip, suggesting only the function
of the parts, thereby dehumanizing the person belonging to the chest or hips.

Kilbourne says this relates to us because this dehumanizing agent encourages the myth that women are permissive and always sexually
available, a myth she finds insulting to both genders. These ads are not so obviously harmful shown independently, but are
dangerous in an accumulative and unconscious manner.

According to Kilbourne, these ads create a powerful sexual image of women as passive, powerless, and dependent, particularly when child
models are used. They affect our culture as a whole by creating desire for a certain type of woman who
is more willing to please and made up of zero percent body fat. More tangibly, it trivializes the epic of

See ADS, page 3
