THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1990 Sports 10

Basketball
Photo By Tim Dancy
J.D. Heuer crashes boards for a rebound in the annual Red-Black game.

Fountain Optical
Largest collection of Classics and Traditionals in the Charlotte area
Fountain Plaza, Hwy 73 W., Cornelius
HOURS: M,W,Th,F 9-5:30; Tues. 9-8; Sat. 9-Noon
Affiliated with Lake Norman Eye Clinic
892-9117
COMPLETE ON-PREMISE LABORATORY
Edward R. Stukbauer, F.N.A.O. Licensed Optician
-Dr. Steven D. Friedman, O.D.

By BRUCE BALESTIER

The Wildcats came up with another solid performance in Tuesday night’s home opener against William and Mary, but simply turned
the ball over too many times (23) to expect to win the game. On a couple of occasions, Davidson threatened
to put the game away, but lackadaisical play each time allowed the Tribe to stay in the game. A late
basket gave William and Mary a 59-58 win.

The ‘Cats once again stormed out of the gate quickly, led by freshman forward James Marsh, who exerted his dominance
inside. Juco transfer Jeff Chapin’s jumper gave them a commanding 20-10 lead with 9:59 remaining in the first half. But
a 13-2 run, aided by some sloppy play by the ‘Cats, brought the Tribe back, and Davidson settled for a
28-27 halftime edge.

Davidson’s fine offensive play resumed at the commencement of the second stanza. Two three-point goals by Paul Denmond and four
straight points by Jason Zimmerman spurred the ‘Cats to a 46-40 lead, and it seemed they might put the game
out of reach. But the Tribe crept back into the game, and held a 57-56 edge with 41 seconds left.
When James Marsh made two shots from the free throw line with 32 seconds left, though, it seemed Davidson might
capture the victory anyway. But William and Mary’s Thomas Burroughs, who finished with 28 points, had other ideas. His running
shot in the lane with 17 seconds left gave W&M a 59-58 lead. Coach McKillop elected not to call timeout,
and the ‘Cats ran the offense. Detlef Musch got the ball in the low post, but was triple-teamed; he found
Jason Zimmerman for an open three-pointer. Unfortunately, Zimmerman’s shot glanced off the rim, and Darry Strickland’s follow attempt scooted long,
and the Wildcats fell short.

The painful final result obscured a fine defensive effort by the ‘Cats, who hawked the ball incessantly, and helped out
well. The Tribe shot just 43.8% for the game. Offensively, the team responded to every William and Mary challenge, and
proved it can score from the perimeter and off penetration. Marsh, a starter at the forward spot in McKillop’s three-guard
alignment, led the way with 15 points, and pulled down 9 boards. The ‘Cats return to action in search of
their first win Saturday night at 7:30 in Belk Arena against Erskine.

Cats Denied By Monmouth
By BRUCE BALESTIER

Saturday night’s consolation matchup with Monmouth College provided a startling contrast for the Wildcats. In polar opposition to the reckless
playground style which CCSU used, the Hawks played a disciplined, methodical game, taking the “air out of the ball,” as
Davidson coach Bob McKillop put it. Monmouth simply outlasted the tired ‘Cats, scoring the final eight points of the game
to emerge with a 64-55 victory.

The contest was a close one throughout. Monmouth possessed small leads during most of the opening half, moving to a
23-13 cushion with 6:14 left. But Davidson responded to the challenge, receiving key baskets from freshmen Jason Zimmerman and James
Marsh, and trailed just 31-25 at the half.

The second half was much the same story. Paul Denmond was not the force he was against Central Connecticut, but
freshmen Scott Alford, James Marsh, and Jason Zimmerman provided the scoring punch needed to keep the game close. Alford’s 19-foot
jumper brought the Wildcats within 1 at 56-55 with 2:21 remaining. Unfortunately, that basket closed out the Davidson scoring. Two
Monmouth possessions converted for baskets and a pair of missed opportunities on the Wildcats’ offensive end decided the game’s outcome.

James Marsh and Jason Zimmerman led the scoring with 11 points each, and Scott Alford pitched in with 10, but
the ‘Cats sorely missed the offensive presence of Denmond, who finished with just 7 points. Nonetheless, it was an encouraging
effort by Davidson against a Monmouth team that nearly made it to the NCAA tournament last year.the NCAA Tournament a
year ago.

Marrow Continued from Page 3

So incredible that I was unable to eat for about a month-and-a-half. These sores “leaked” and all the excess phlegm
would often gag me. They installed a suction tube by my bed so I could constantly suck this leakage out.
For pain management, I was taught self-hypnosis and began receiving a constant flow of morphine, which I became addicted to,
after getting twenty cc’s an hour, 24 hours a day. I also began to experience minor infections, accompanied by high
fevers, vomiting, and diarrhea. I felt weak and frustrated a lot of the time. Fortunately, I was surrounded by the
support of my family and friends during tough times. Then after a couple of weeks, my “counts” reappeared, signifying the
first sign of a successful transplant. As my body underwent an inner tug-of-war trying naturally to fight the “foreign” marrow
of Lee’s, I was in constant threat of rejection or of a serious infection such as graft vs. host disease
in which the body literally consumes the new marrow. I often received red cells and platelets through transfusions to maintain
good blood levels.

One terrifying night, I had a bad reaction to some blood product, and basically “freaked” out as my body signaled
the adverse recognition through violent chills and shaking. Another time, I had a “drug trip” due to the combination of
too many drugs. I don’t recall this episode, but my mother assures me that for a fifteen-hour period I was
literally out of my mind. I made overtly “cheesy” remarks to the nurses and female doctors and basically had a
complete reversal of personality. In this drunken stupor, I even phoned my mom threatening to, “call a cab to get
the hell out of here.” Finally, the next day, I snapped out of this weird experience. Other unpleasantries were the
high blood pressure I developed and the insomnia that I experienced. Though, for a while, my life seemed to hang
in the balance, I gradually saw improvements. My blood counts slowly climbed to tolerable levels and I was “freed” from
isolation. I got the biggest thrill from being allowed to walk laps around the nurse’s station while lugging my I.V.
pole and monitors behind me... talk about simple pleasures...

My doctor explained that a transplant was equivalent to an atomic bomb being set off in my body, so he
warned that over the next few months my body would be in constant limbo. Being let out of isolation also
allowed me to become aware of those around me on the transplant unit. I realized, by comparison, how fortunate I
was. Some of the patients were not strong enough to live through the transplant experience, others developed serious infections (one
little boy, Tyler, had to have a hole cut in his throat to help him breathe) and still others’ bodies
never fully accepted the transplant. Fortunately, more people have successful transplants than those who don’t. It just is so heartbreaking
to see so many people in a fierce struggle for their life. Finally, I was released to the Radisson hotel
where my family was staying until I regained my strength. At one point, I had to re-enter the hospital due
to a virus, which was another disheartening experience.

When the glorious day arrived in mid-April that I was finally allowed to go home, I don’t think I’ve ever
felt so aware of the magnificence of my gift of restored life. The doctors tested my marrow and found it
to be healthy and one-hundred percent Lee’s. The year-and-a-half of medicine upon medicine, doctor visit after doctor visit were finally
coming to the end. I was allowed to try and begin my life where I had left off the previous
year. Obviously, words thrown on paper cannot fully convey the magnitude of a transplant, but I hope I’ve given a
basic impression. Throughout this whole time, I had periods of fear and depression—I wondered why I was having to endure
this “living hell.”

My sister Lee is truly, “the wind beneath my wings.” Please consider the incredible gift that I have been given
and hopefully you might be willing to give that gift to someone else. I sure hope so...

Editors’ Note: A fund has been established. If you wish to sponsor a student or make a donation, contact Beth
Duttera, Service Coordinator, Davidson College: P.O. Box 1719 (892-2460) in care of “Project: Life.”
