THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING

Thursday, September 27, 1990

Photo Courtesy of College Relations

Senior Russ Matthews embarked on a historic quest for Amelia Earhart's airplane.

Mystery Calls Student to Track Amelia Earhart

By LISA GERRARD

Last year at this time, Davidson College senior Russ Matthews was fighting through tropical underbrush on a South Pacific island,
on the trail of the Amelia Earhart mystery. Video camera in hand, Matthews joined an expedition last September to search
for clues to the disappearance of the famed U.S. aviator during her 1937 globe-circling flight.

“It was a chance to make history instead of just studying about it,” says Matthews, a Princeton, New Jersey, senior
at Davidson who filmed the trip for The International Group for Historical Aircraft Recovery (TIGHAR) of Wilmington, Delaware.

The 28-member research team and crew brought back no aircraft or human remains to positively solve the Earhart mystery. But
in the village rubble on the tiny island of Nikumaroro, they did discover a possible clue.

“We brought back a navigator’s bookcase that appears to have been mounted in Earhart’s Electra airplane,” said Matthews. “At first
we thought it was made to go in a World War II navy plane, but by the way it was
installed and because of some other, non-standard features, we knew it was never mounted in a war-time aircraft. What we
would have, then, is a pre-war American aircraft part on a backwater island in the Pacific Ocean.”

Shortly after TIGHAR’s September expedition, Earhart project director Ric Gillespie received word of a makeshift water-collection device found on the
island. The two pieces of evidence may indicate Earhart and her navigator, Fred Noonan, survived a landing on Nikumaroro in
July 1937 and waited in vain for rescue.

Matthews said the 1989 expedition was the first scientific effort to explain Earhart’s disappearance. “Two members of TIGHAR came up
with a navigation theory in 1988 and evidence pointed to the fact that no one had searched the most likely
place the plane would be,” he said.

Earhart was on course to fly to Howland Island when her plane went down. She may have landed in distress
or simply by mistake on the coral reef of the then-uninhabited Gardner Island, now called Nikumaroro.

“With no computers and no satellites, flying from town to town in the U.S. was even a problem at that
time,” Matthews said. “An island in the vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean might as well have been a speck
of dust.”

TIGHAR investigators theorize that Earhart and Noonan landed at low tide on the island’s coral reef flat, but that waves
and tides dragged the plane off the side of the reef to depths of more than 2,000 feet. The island
was not populated until at least a year after Earhart and Noonan disappeared, when Great Britain moved settlers there to
raise coconuts. The island is now deserted. Only piles of rubble from previous settlements and the * See Page 12

By DAVID SCOTT

Sometimes the best stories are right in front of your face, or perhaps up the road a ways on Highway
150 just outside of Mooresville. That’s where Kemp Sherrill has spent a lifetime in our little corner of Carolina.

This is Mr. Sherrill’s fourteenth year at Davidson. Officially retired, he now works part-time, five hours, five nights a week.
If you ever lock your keys in your car, look Kemp up. He’ll take care of you and spin you
some mighty interesting tales if you’re willing to stick around.

Born in 1916, Kemp remembers growing up on a farm his daddy rented near Mooresville. He always heard of Davidson
and knew “big things” were happening a few miles south. “They said you had to haveReal high scores to get
in there.” He remembers he and his father once selling a load of cut firewood to Davidson for heating fuel.
“They didn’t have so much electricity back then.” In 1932 Kemp’s dad died. To support his five younger brothers and
sisters, Kemp’s mom told him he would have to leave school to run the farm and make ends meet. He
was in the fifth grade. Kemp had no great love for farming. Cotton picking and corn shucking thrilled him not,
and he was once dragged a mile when his foot caught in the trace of a spooked mule’s harness. He
woke up the next morning with 135 stitches between him and any plow. Like many rural southerners of that time,
he looked for work at the local textile mill. “The boss down there knew my dad had died, and he
wanted to help me out.” Kemp and his mother both found work at Mooresville Mills. All his brothers and sisters
finished school and the family saved up enough money to buy a house. In 1942, World War II called Kemp
away from Carolina to the battlefields of Europe. “I got put in a trucking regiment. They gave that whole regiment
a written test. And you know how many guys passed out of all of ‘em... five. I was one of
‘em.” Kemp made corporal and got to drive a jeep. A certain Colonel Williams, an assistant to General Omar Bradley,
noticed Kemp and took him as his personal driver. “I got to live in the same house with them Generals.
Slept in a bed.” Better than a foxhole in France by a long shot. But it wasn’t all so easy.
Kemp remembers turning around at a blown-out bridge during the Battle of the Bulge. The trucks crept along packed close
together “and then they threw those buzz bombs in at us and hit an MP truck with twenty-one men on
it. Killed ‘em all. We couldn’t find no more than little pieces of bodies when they were done.” To avoid
the bombs, Kemp and the remaining men climbed to the top of a nearby hill and hid in the trees.
“I remember there was this American Red Cross tent on the other side of that mountain. They had the wounded
layin’ upon the ground in there.”

Retired Security Guard Patton Kemp Sherrill and companion "Jule a Bul" stand in front of Chambers. Photo Courtesy of College
Relations.

See Page 12

Williamson is Mean and Tough
Continued from Page 8

than I am at Davidson. I wouldn’t trade my place right now with any place I’ve ever been, or been
offered.” Going in to meet with him, I myself saw Williamson as the intimidating Biology Chairman. However, I discovered my
best clue that Williamson isn’t so “big intimidating, mean and tough,” but rather truly enjoys helping and being nice to
others on my way out. On his secretary’s desk was a freshly cut azalea.

New Theater Group on Campus
Continued from Page 8

scheduled to open in Hodson Hall. “We’re thinking of having the audience on stage with the actors,” said Barber. Through
direct student participation and planning in the New Vagabonds, students will not be limited by the offerings of the small
theater staff. Its structure allows for students to create their own theater experience. Whether the New Vagabonds becomes one’s top
priority at Davidson, or whether it is only participated in as a passing interest, the group provides an easy way
to get involved. According to Barber, “Students can have fun as well as feeling the satisfaction of creativity.”
