THURSDAY, November 29, 1990

Campus Living

Photo By Jay Wylie | Davidson students (left to right) Kyle Garner, Mark Little, and Todd Bowman are caught up in the tale of "Loot."

College Dramatists Present Orton's Satirical Play, "Loot"

By CARLA WALKER

The Davidson College Theatre Department and the New Vagabonds will present “Loot” at 8:00 p.m. on Thursday and Friday, November 29-30 in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. The biting satire will be directed by Rupert Barber, professor of theater and speech, and performed by the members of the New Vagabonds, an organization which gives Davidson students greater opportunities to participate in drama productions.

“Loot,” by British playwright Joe Orton, is an attack on greed, the police, and many of our most sacred institutions. The plot involves bungling bank robbers, a mysterious death, and a secretive inspector trying to recover the stolen loot. One review called it “a modern Oscar Wilde drawing-room comedy, but done in very dark overtones,” Barber said. “Although the characters are very complex, the cast and I have had a great time rehearsing. I hope the audience enjoys the play as much as we have.”

The cast of characters includes sophomore Kyle Garner as Inspector Truscott, sophomore Glen Laird as Hal, and freshmen Todd Bowman as Meadows, Mike Crowley as Dennis, Mark Little as McLeavy, and Katy McDaniel as Fay. Barber said that the audience will be in for a surprise when they see the seating arrangement in Hodson Hall. The novel configuration, which will create an intimate setting, means that limited seating is available. General admission tickets are $3 and the box office opens on Monday, November 26. For more information, contact the College Union at 892-2361.

Review / Movie

Reversal Of Fortune — Revives Citizen Kane Experience

By JOE MARIS

Citizen Kane experiences a new revival in the film industry with Hollywood’s latest film mystery, Reversal of Fortune. Based on the Claus von Bülow trials of the early eighties, Reversal of Fortune delves into this famous case of aristocracy and murder by paradoxically expressing the film’s ability to explain “what really happened” when Sunny von Bülow lapsed into an apparently irreversible coma.

The film’s title and content emerge from Alan Dershowitz’s book with the same name. Dershowitz, a Jewish lawyer played by Ron Silver, accepted von Bülow’s case after von Bülow was convicted of the attempted murder of his wife, Sunny von Bülow. Dershowitz was successful in overturning von Bülow’s conviction. When von Bülow was acquitted on both counts of attempted murder, Dershowitz wrote Reversal of Fortune, conveying the ins and outs of handling a big-name, big-money case in which public opinion is heavily biased.

Jeremy Irons, the world’s most underrated actor, plays the high-browed, warped Claus von Bülow complete with incessantly burning cigarettes and accent-slurred “I am innocent”s. Glenn Close narrates the film as the comatose Sunny von Bülow. This different form of narration provides this film with a deep sense of biting irony and condescending superiority. Sunny von Bülow challenges the audience to concentrate on the film and to come up with the real answer to the von Bülow mystery. Her inherent sarcasm contrasts sharply with the view of Sunny lying in a tangle of hospital tubes while nurses wash her flaccid, pale body.

A great source of Sunny’s comatose amusement derives from America’s judicial system. Sunny posits that if man could go back in time, courts of law would become obsolete. As a camera pans across the court scene in which Dershowitz will defend his client, Sunny’s voice-over quips that despite the courtroom’s inadequacies in conveying the truth, we like a good mystery.

Despite the state of the film’s narrator, Reversal of Fortune follows a format resembling Orson Welles’ Citizen Kane. Flashbacks sprout from the minds of various characters, and after a while one is not certain what to believe. Towards the end of the film, Dershowitz and his law students expand on the idea of narrative perspective.

Pianist Simon To Perform At Davidson

By CARLA WALKER

Pianist Abbey Simon, one of the most recorded classical artists of all time, will perform at Davidson College on Monday, December 3. The performance begins at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets for the event, which is part of the college’s Concert Series, are $4. Music lovers and professional musicians alike anticipate performances by Simon, whom The New York Times labels a “super-virtuoso,” and calls “One of the most important, exciting and musically satisfying pianists of his generation.” Simon has also been deemed “A spellbinder! An extraordinarily gifted one!” by The New Yorker, and lauded as possessing “marvelous, relaxed eloquence and command” by The Times of London. Following his graduation from the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia and his debut in Europe, Simon began a career that has spanned more than four decades and has rewarded him with various national awards. Simon has recorded all the concerti of Rachmaninoff, the complete works of Ravel, and Schumann’s Carnaval and Fantasy. He is currently in the process of recording the complete repertoire of the artist he is most closely associated with, Chopin. Simon is convinced that the solo performance remains the ultimate test of any artist. “I think it is the most illuminating thing an artist can do. I was brought up in the great tradition of the piano recital. It’s his [an artist’s] opportunity to show himself as whatever he is. How else can you judge an artist, or better yet, how can an artist reveal himself more fully, than by playing for an hour and a half up there? It’s the most exhilarating experience I know. It’s my reason for being alive.” Simon’s enthusiasm for his music is shared by Adelaide McKelway, director of the Friends of the Arts at Davidson and a member of the Union Concert Committee, which is sponsoring Simon’s performance. She said, “Abbey Simon is a mature artist with a very fine, long reputation. It is wonderful to be able to bring in someone with his particular views and mature artistry in contrast to young competition winners.” For more information on the concert, contact the College Union at 896-2140.

The Incredible Ease Of Well Being

49 Food Items That Are "Good For You"

I am a firm unbeliever in diets, unless they are doctor prescribed. Mainly, this is because the poor soul who wakes up one morning planning to cut calories and eat “right” in order to lose weight had better be planning to make this calorie cut a permanent part of his or her life. If a dieter fails to stick with a diet for life, weight is gained, not lost, because the body resets its metabolism to account for a calorie reduction. Like a smoking habit, certain foods are hard to give up. Your best bet is to try and consciously limit these foods, but not to do away with them altogether. Here are some of the foods to which I am referring:

Foods high in fat (more than 4 grams per ounce), because of increased risk of heart disease associated with high cholesterol caused by a high-fat diet. Foods high in salt, because of increased risk of high-blood pressure. Processed sugar, because foods with a high percentage of sugar are usually high in fat as well, and sugar cannot even compare to carbohydrates as a source of energy.

Here are 49 foods which are “good for you,” in that they are high in vitamins and minerals. Foods in boldface type are the best of the list, supplying the RDA of 5 or more vitamins and minerals: 1% milk, low-fat yogurt, cottage cheese, eggs, Swiss cheese, American cheese, strawberries, bananas, oranges, melons, apples/applesauce, pears, peaches, grapes, 100% pure fruit juice (not fruit-flavored drinks), raisins and other dried fruit, grapefruit, turkey, chicken liver*, legumes, lean beef, shrimp, flounder, salmon, tuna, peanut butter, lean lamb, veal, asparagus, broccoli, carrots, squash, peas, corn, green beans, spinach, tomatoes, potatoes, whole-grain bread, rice, pasta, oatmeal, Cream of Wheat, bran flakes, whole-wheat crackers, pizza, non-cream based soups, lasagna, chili.

*Although liver is a source of iron, copper, zinc, phosphorus, and vitamins A, C, and the Bs, it’s also very high in cholesterol, so don’t eat it more than twice per month.

Surprised? So was I. Enjoy that pizza with a clearer conscience, but remember that unfortunately, a client died and each expansion is continued on Page 8.