Commentaries

Rambling roadside ruminations

David C. Grant

While engaged in routine tasks, related insights come to mind. Ones that crossed my mind one recent Saturday morning as some of the Davidson Environmental Action Committee harvested trash along mile 18 of I-77 may be worth passing on.

Initial shock dulled to routine picking up of anything that looked even a little out of place and I found I was often picking up bits of “white” stuff to put in the bag for non-recyclable trash only to discover a perfectly natural, biodegradable bird’s feather. I felt better leaving them to be “recycled” directly by Mother Nature.

Two trips to this area have shown me that entrance ramps have a denser “population” of trash species than a comparable area of interstate roadside and that “drink container” species also show an interesting shift in proportions. Along the ramp, beer and liquor bottles are a higher percentage and are present in greater absolute numbers than along the highway in general. A mind not quite intelligent enough to abstain from drinking while driving, may still have enough wit to try to dispose of the evidence in case of being stopped on the more patrolled interstate.

Speaking of alcoholic beverage packaging, most manufacturers are now trying to cover their proverbial posteriors by printing government warnings that operating machinery or driving in conjunction with use of the contained product may be hazardous to your health (not to mention that of anyone else in your path). Some even add the environmentally responsible request to “dispose of the container properly.” Note that even the moderate use of the product reduces the user’s ability to remember the warnings or care about the possible consequences of ignoring them.

Another facet of packaging came to mind last Saturday. It’s a fact that virtually all fast food chains print on everything from meal-sized boxes to seasoning and condiment “portion” packages, a request for proper disposal and yet these items continue to be very well represented in the “trash community.” It’s also a fact that if bulk dispensers were provided and individual packages eliminated, there would be no opportunity for them to turn up on the roadside. This would mean more cleanup work around dispensing areas or more varied options in food preparation in kitchen areas but, if children behave irresponsibly with toys or other items entrusted to them, most parents remove the items until the children mature, act responsibly and have the privilege restored.

The last observation to come from this particular roadside rumination relates to that marvelous insulating and cushioning material known as styrofoam. This produced my only real frustration in the two times I have been out with DEAC members on “our” stretch of adopted I-77. The frustration came when I repeatedly found areas where a styrofoam cup, left too long, had begun to fragment on touch, or a large, thick carton had blown off a load and shattered. Large pieces became many smaller ones in my fingers. The longer I worked, the more small pieces I encountered or produced. The problem for me was awareness of work done years ago showing that filter-feeding oysters and clams in coastal areas where crumbled styrofoam accumulated, would literally starve to death slowly, while maintaining a full gut. The gut was full of tiny, indigestible, water-logged styrofoam particles. We’re a long way from the ocean and no one eats freshwater mussels much nowadays. Even if some of these particles do get washed downstream eventually, is it such a big deal? People like the commercial shrimpers who say “who needs turtles?” would likely say “who needs oysters? or clams?” For that matter “who needs shrimp? Or shrimpers?”

I feel we ought to want to keep all critters and environments in the best shape possible whether we need them now, might need them in the future, or might never need them. My hopes for DEAC’s stretch of I-77 are that successive outings will increase the number of people involved; that more...will become involved and become repeaters; that trips go at least once a week until the entire stretch is completely clean at the same time; and that continuing interest and commitment will result in running formal cleanup operations whenever need exists anywhere along the road. Who knows, perhaps individuals will become so attuned to the problem and so “parental” toward “their” adopted highway that they stop and pick up the odd piece of unsightly, environmentally degrading trash when they see it. If we reach that state of responsibility, perhaps it will spread to other stretches of the highway and perhaps rub off on passersby who, in turn, may expand it to other regions. We may even see changed attitudes and behavior patterns in that most sapient of beings, the human species.

David C. Grant is a professor in the Biology Department

Some ideas on dead animals, ice cream & lab credit
Lucia Kendall

Personally, I can’t quite understand why some people would rather spend their afternoons probing around the insides of dead animals than reading A Room With A View. That’s why I majored in English instead of Biology. Nevertheless, it was explained to me as a child that the reason Baskin Robbins offers 31 flavors of ice cream to choose from instead of just Rocky Road is that different people have different tastes, and that those differences should be respected. So even though I can’t imagine wanting to be a science major, I sympathize with their problem of not getting credit for the hours they devote to labs, as they would if Davidson operated on a credit-hour system instead of a one-credit-for-each-course system.

The standard argument against giving credit for lab time is that the time a physics major spends in labs is equivalent to the time a religion major spends reading about the Reformation or writing a paper on Calvin’s Institutes. Science majors, however, are also responsible for work outside of labs. For example, each week Chemistry 121 requires two hours doing problem sets, two hours writing lab reports and studying for tests, in addition to a three-hour lab. Unfortunately, when these comparisons are made, conversations often degenerate into a my-classes-are-more-grueling-and-torturous-than-yours-are argument which turns out to be rather unproductive.

The lab time being equivalent to study time is basically a valid line of reasoning, however, except that it does not consider the minimum slackness factor. The issue here is not which department has students who work the hardest. The issue is which classes require the most as a minimum amount of work. A philosophy major who is satisfied with doing C-level work can spend a lot less time on philosophy, whereas a chemistry major cannot avoid the amount of time she must spend in labs. How much credit a course is worth must be determined mainly by the minimum amount of time the structure of the course requires the student to spend. The question “How slack can I be and still get credit?” is not a very appealing way to go about discussing this issue. Nevertheless, determining credit on the minimum amount of time required to pass seems like the only way to determine what is fair to students in all majors. Grades are used to evaluate achievement above the minimum; credit is used to recognize a student's having completed only the minimum required—that’s the way academics works.

This issue also applies to studio art and music majors who, in addition to not receiving credit for the time they spend, also have to put up with comments about not having “a real major,” often from people who can’t draw stick figures and whose friends cringe when they try to sing Happy Birthday. The idea that Davidson has always done things this way is not a good enough reason to continue doing things this way. Now that we are re-evaluating our switch to the semester system, it seems that we have an excellent opportunity to re-evaluate the one-credit-for-one-course unit as well.

On vacation

The entire Davidsonian staff is splitting town this Friday for Spring Break and we will then enjoy a publishing break the following week (So don’t bug us with nasty messages!) We’ll see you Wednesday, March 28!