THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING Thursday, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990

LAURA GROSCH

The Christa Faut Gallery at Davidson is currently exhibiting "Herbs".

Art Review: Local Gallery Exhibits "Herbs"

JESSICA THURBEE

What do herbs have to do with relationships? Davidson artist Laura Grosch explores the relationships between the parts of her paintings in a series of eight acrylic paintings entitled “Herbs,” which is now on display at the Christa Faut Gallery. The paintings are not only about different herbs, but about patterns. In the September issue of Lake Norman Magazine, Grosch was quoted as saying that her images are about the relationship between the herb in the foreground and what she calls the cutout in the background. According to Lake Norman Magazine, these cutouts are intricate patterns originated in Europe as temporary decorations, similar to the paper snowflakes children cut out. After carefully choosing the cutout that would best match the herb, Grosch painted the herb first and then the background.

Each of the eight paintings, “Thyme,” “Basil,” “Dill,” “Lavender,” “Lamb's Ear,” “Spearmint,” “Italian Parsley,” and “Bee Balm” have unique qualities, and would be capable of standing without the others, but the paintings in series are incredible. All the paintings share vivid colors including countless shades of greens. “Thyme” gives a feeling of the sun shining on leaves by using both bright and light orange in the background with a mixture of solid and multicolored leaves. In “Basil,” the colors are vivid, and the plant rises out of the sun. There is a great contrast between the background and the herb. “Dill” reminds of the ocean and flowing waves. “Lavender,” my personal favorite, employs bright red and purple for the background; the actual flower is only at the top. The painting reminds me of a lazy summer afternoon in a wide-open field; a marked contrast from the brightness and vividness of the colors. “Lamb’s Ear” is the only painting which does not use bright colors. Instead, Grosch uses pastel pinks and greens. The herb and the rest of the background appear to be a frame for a central and elaborate cutout. In “Spearmint,” the herb is totally distinct from the background, as if it was painted on. In its detail and colors, though, it is reminiscent of a fine tapestry. In “Italian Parsley,” the herb meshes with its background, at the same time remaining distinct. “Bee Balm” uses a variety of unique colors that normally one does not see together, but here they match perfectly.

In the Lake Norman Magazine, Grosch emphasized the importance of getting the positive and negative space between the image correct, which is why she carefully chooses the particular cutout she plans to use. She likens the paintings to a symphony made up of many different parts—it is difficult to separate all the different instruments, instead, one hears all of the levels together. Likewise, in her paintings, it is difficult to separate the background from the foreground. For me, the paintings were wonderful and I could have stayed in the gallery for hours, but for someone else, of course, they may be different. Go to the Christa Faut Gallery (on Main Street) and experience Laura Grosch’s “Herbs” for yourself. The show runs through October 14, and the gallery hours are Monday-Friday 10 am-5 pm, and Saturday 10 am-2 pm.

Rob Kelley

Inside Charlotte: Festival in the Park Returns

This week marks the return of Charlotte’s annual Festival in the Park in wooded Freedom Park. Now in its twenty-sixth year, the festival had to close early last year on account of high winds: high winds that became Hurricane Hugo by the end of that week. As lights swing on long strings beneath brightly colored tents, vendors will show their crafts: metal-worked earrings, carved wooden flutes, tie-dye t-shirts, and more. Music (in the park band shell) will range from the Charlotte Folk Society (Thursday, 6:30) to the Oratorio Singers (Saturday, 7:30). Dance acts, also in the shell, will include cloggers and Polynesian Dancers as well as more modern styles. Finally, one entire section of the park will be devoted to an art exhibit by various area painters.

The Festival started on Tuesday, and it will continue throughout the week. On the weekdays, the activities will begin around 6:00 pm and close at 10:00. The celebrations will also be open Saturday and Sunday, from 2:00 p.m. until 6:00. Admission is free, and you can call the festival office at 532-1060 for more details. Freedom Park is located pretty deep within Charlotte. To get there, take I-77 south to Brookshire (the south fork), get off at the Kenilworth exit, and turn right at the base. Follow that road through four stoplights, veering off to the right when it forks itself into two one-way avenues. At the base of the hill, the road will merge back together and curve left. Another road will curve right. Go LEFT.At the second stoplight, you’ll see Charlotte Catholic High School, my alma mater, on your right. Turn left there onto the side street, and the park will be over the rise of the next hill and on your left. You'll probably have to park on another side street, especially if you go at night (the best time). To return to Davidson, simply retrace your steps. Turn right at the CCHS stoplight, right again at the one-way split, and follow Kenilworth until you see a large sign for John Belk Freeway.

The Incredible Ease of Well Being
What is Aerobic Exercise?
Marlo Cobb

“Regular aerobic exercise” can be translated into “voluntary stress which prepares the body for involuntary stresses.” The fact is, human beings aren’t meant to be sedentary animals, and there are a plethora (SAT word) of benefits to be gained by exercise. One great thing about the human body is that it is amazingly resilient. No matter how old, overweight, or just “out of shape” you are, you can bounce back with exercise. Unlike stress put on an inanimate object which makes it bend and eventually break, the “voluntary stress” you put on yourself by exercising can only make you stronger and more resistant to breaking down. Active people live 11-15 percent longer than people who are couch potatoes all their lives.

Exercise:
1. Improves cardiovascular fitness, circulation, and digestion
2. Raises your metabolic rate
3. Strengthens bones: without exercise, muscles atrophy and stiffen
4. Promotes a general upswing in mood, heightened self-image, and decreased stress
5. Strengthens the immune system

The official definition of “aerobic exercise” is raising your heart rate (the number of beats per minute) to 60-85 percent capacity and keeping it there for 20 to 40 minutes or more. You can measure your own pulse to make sure you are doing this. Simply put, for a six-second count, your heart should be beating somewhere between 13 and 17 times, varying by age and fitness level. You should work out at least three times per week. The best time of day to exercise is whenever you feel like it and whenever you have time. However, until it gets cooler, don’t go running between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. I hate seeing people on the track then; I’m afraid they’re going to drop dead. Also, remember not to eat for 1 to 2 hours beforehand. If you must eat then, make it something small, with no fat and no sugar. Bread, pasta, or fruit are fine. The best thing after a workout is water—not Gatorade!

Enough rules. I used to think of the need to exercise as a horrible guilt trip under which I sweated through an hour of gym so that I could go to lunch next period and not feel so bad. Believe me, it doesn’t have to be that way. Remember when you were a kid? Exercise wasn’t “exercise”; exercise was “playing.” Now that you’re (sort of) grown up, if you don’t find running fun, don’t do it. Do something different that you enjoy. Anything is better than nothing at all. Try tennis, shoot some hoops, go for a swim at the Lake Campus, “power-walk” with a friend. Have a good time!

Transfers Continued from Page 7

...clusion, while Hamrick maintains that being off-campus “makes it really hard to meet people.” She feels that she has no constant contact with people on campus. Ruff, like Vanderford, likes living off-campus better because of the independence it offers. She enjoys having her own room and cooking in her kitchen.

These transfers all look forward to making the most of the opportunities that Davidson offers. Ruff, an English major, is enjoying the academics at Davidson, the smaller environment as compared to a larger university, and her professors, whom she says are “so wonderful” and “talk to you personally.” “Absolutely fascinated” with physical anthropology right now, Lorenzin, an anthropology major, is looking forward to taking a Basic Drawing course, Creative Writing, and more anthropology in the future. Vanderford, now at his ROTC headquarters here at Davidson, is “anxious to get into my major,” political science. He is especially eager to take courses in Constitutional Law. He added that he is “glad to be in a place that people are proud to be in and eager to graduate from.”

Hamrick is considering a Center for Special Studies major combining political science, anthropology, and religion, enjoying “conversations with students who have different perspectives than I have,” and finding academics “not just challenging on an intellectual level, but also on a personal level.” While these transfers are enthusiastic about gaining from their experience at Davidson, they are also adding to others’ experiences at Davidson, bringing diversity, energy, and a thirst for knowledge with them onto campus and into the classroom.

FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM
Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization. Plus a chance at $5000 more! This program works! No investment needed. Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50