“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXII
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990
NUMBER 4

Davidson's Athletic Resurgence: Soccer 20th in Nation, Football 3-1
By BRUCE BALESTIER

There were signs last spring that good things were afoot in Davidson athletics. Terry Holland, universally regarded as one of
the finest basketball coaches in the land, relinquished his post as head coach at Virginia to return to his alma
mater as athletic director. He convinced his old friend Dave Fagg, then associate football coach at Arizona, to return to
Davidson as head football coach. The trustees voted to distribute grants-in-aid to women athletes. There was an obvious new spirit
in Davidson athletics, but that recognition didn’t prepare us for the phenomenal success of nearly every team so far this
fall.

Since his arrival in 1980, head soccer coach Charlie Slagle’s program has been a model of consistency, achieving six winning
seasons in ten years and a winning season just over .500. All of this is remarkable when one considers that
Davidson is the smallest Division-I school in the nation and gives no soccer scholarships. What is yet more remarkable is
what the team has done thus far this fall. This year’s edition has simply found the right mix. Experienced players
like Scott Zucker, Peter Cobb, and Rob Ukrop have anchored the squad. Precocious sophomores like Phelps Sprinkle and Lance Kinerk
have played above their years. Freshmen have contributed as well; midfielder John Sampers found the net twice in the Wildcats’
3-2 win at Duke. With impressive wins over Richmond, Cincinnati, South Alabama, and Duke, the 9-1 Wildcats have vaulted into
the national rankings at 20th, an amazing feat for a school of our size. Our ranking of 4th in the
South is Davidson’s highest ever.

Even as recently as last year, the football program was a depressed one. It was a program still smarting from
an exodus of quality players after the drop to Division III. But last season’s two victories under Vic Gatto were
the most in recent years. Three of the team’s losses were by a sum of five points, and there were
defeats at the hands of powerhouses Wagner and Dayton. There were, in short, signs of competitiveness. Coach Fagg brought with
him a new attitude; he stressed a family-type atmosphere. He played the fight song very often, hundreds of times by
his own admission. He brought with him as well a recruiting class of over 30 freshmen to provide much-needed depth.
The stage was set. Since their opening loss to the University of the South, the Fighting Wildcats have not let
up. They have characteristically found a way to win, coming from behind with explosive offense against Millsaps and Emory and
Henry, protecting a lead with staunch defense to defeat J.C. Smith. A winning season would be just our second since
1969.

On the women’s side, it seems that the trustees realized that they could not continue to expect teams to achieve
success with mirrors. In order to compete with bigger, scholarship-giving schools, Davidson must distribute grants-in-aid to women athletes. Presumably...

Continued on Page 3

Acquaintance Rape at Davidson: Students Not Only Victims But Perpetrators
By KATHRYN STRICKLAND

[Editors' Note: Because date rape is a major issue on college campuses, this opinion piece is worthy of receiving student
attention. As a result, we have placed this article on the front page.]

Two years ago twenty-eight Davidson men chose this slogan for their freshman hall jersey, “She was date-raped on 3rd West,
and all I got was this lousy t-shirt.” They printed “But if she came it didn’t count” on the back.
Today students still mock the acquaintance rape issue. Two weeks ago a Davidson woman received this anonymous message on her
answering machine: “Bitch, I know who you are, and I know where you...live, and one night late when you are
walking back from the library, I am going to find you, and I am going to rape you like a
----ing dog.” - Whether a threat or a bluff, the call is a crime. The administration suspects a Davidson student,
not an outsider, left the message. Last year two women reported acquaintance rapes to the Dean of Students’ Office; three
students reported attempted rapes, and no one filed a sexual harassment complaint. Nationally, one out of seven college women is
raped on campus--more than half of these vic- “There is no reason to believe this statistic does not hold true
for Davidson,” says Leslie Marsicano, Assistant Dean of Students. Why then don’t Davidson women report the crime? Guilt, humiliation, not
wanting anyone to find out, and fearing no one will believe them are common answers. Attitudes that mock acquaintance rape
exacerbate fears and prevent a victim from reporting the crime. One female student who did not report an attempted acquaintance
rape responded, “I just wanted to forget about it. I didn’t want to muddy the waters especially since his father
is a very prominent businessman.” These feelings, although understandable, do not protect the victim or other female students. One Davidson
male commented, “It’s worse when a girl does not report the rape, then guys think she’s indifferent to it or
even liked it.” The administration promises confidentiality and flexibility. The victim possesses several options: reporting the crime without prosecuting, confronting
her assailant in the presence of a staff member, prosecuting under the Code of Responsibility, and/or pressing criminal charges.

A Davidson woman attacked by an acquaintance the fall of her freshman year tells why she let the attack go
unreported and how the administration responded when she finally did disclose the incident. “I told the Dean of Students office
a year and a half after the attempted rape. Until then I did not feel the administration possessed the sensitivity
and awareness to handle my situation. When it happened, I wanted to tell someone desperately, but doubted the Dean of
Students would believe me or even care. I felt helpless. The issue had never been openly discussed on my hall.
What could I do?”

“Last spring, I attended a Rape Awareness Committee meeting where Leslie Marsicano spoke,” she continues. “She seemed willing to listen
and ready to take action. It was the first time I had ever made my appointment with Leslie. Finally, someone
in a position of power knew the problems Davidson women face. That felt Continued on Page 2

International Fair to Feature Twenty Countries
By LISA GERRARD

Students from more than 20 countries will show off their native lands at the Davidson College International Fair on Saturday,
September 29 in the College Union. From 11 a.m. until 3 p.m., visitors will have the chance to waltz with
the Viennese, sip “chai” with the Pakistanis, practice Spanish with a student from Costa Rica and have their palms read
by a native of India. Davidson College hosts more than 60 international students each year, bringing to the campus a
rich diversity of experience and cultures. These students hold an International Fair every year, during which they set up booths
about their native lands, dress in traditional costumes and serve up samples of Indian curry, German cheesecake, French crepes and
other favorite ethnic dishes. “We will create an atmosphere to give the Americans an idea of what we do and
where we come from,” said Prem Manjooran, a Continued on Page 3

INSIDE
News 2
Campus Living 8
Professor's book examines Peruvian drug trade
New faculty profile: Dr. John Williamson. Page 8
Opinions 5
Senior Russ Matthews talks about tracking Amelia Earhart's aircraft. Page 10
Archer's Texaco replies. Page 5
David Scott talks about Davidson athletics. Page 6
Music critic Joe Binns reviews two shows. Page 12
First Class Mail
Sports 13
U.S. Postage Paid
Nationally ranked Soccer destroys UNG-G.
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036
