THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Photo by Ed Matthews
Nina Serebrennikov, professor of art history, discusses next year's Italian Art course with Chris Jones '93.

Art History to Begin Program in Italy
By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

The Art Department recently announced that it would probably have an Art History program in Rome in the spring of '91 if a proposal they have submitted to the Educational Policy Committee and the faculty committee is accepted. Sophomores of all majors would be considered eligible.

The fifteen-week seminar will consist of two art history courses, an Independent Study under the tutelage of a Davidson professor, and an intensive Italian language session. The students will be given the opportunity to examine and appreciate first-hand the treasures of the Renaissance and other periods of art studied beforehand in class.

The program is being established by Professor Nina Serebrennikov, who along with other members of the art department, feel students cannot fully appreciate the artistry of the works studied through slides. “I am very excited about the program,” said Serebrennikov, “and have found no parallel to standing beneath the Sistine ceiling and gazing upon the mastery of Michelangelo.” The intensive study of Italian will assist the students in assimilating with their surroundings and add to the overall cultural experience. A meeting for interested students has been slated for the fall.

Thrower To Direct Campus Security
Courtesy of College Relations

Raymond H. Thrower Jr., a person already familiar to the Davidson College family from previous employment here, became director of public safety effective April 11. Thrower replaced the retiring Jackie Hughes, who has worked at the college for seventeen years.

Thrower worked under Hughes for about two years before becoming director of public safety at Queens College in September 1986. A Davidson native, he and his family now live in Magnolia Estates in Cornelius. “I always considered Davidson and the college as my home, and I wanted to come back and contribute here,” he said.

Thrower will preside over a force of seven full-time campus officers. He said he sees his major challenges in the new position to be dealing with campus parking problems and reducing the larceny rate. During his time at Queens, he oversaw implementation of a card access system, lighting improvements, a new key control policy, establishment of a twenty-four hour dispatch service, and conversion of the campus force to a full police unit.

Thrower has been employed in law enforcement since 1978. He graduated from North Mecklenburg High School and Sacred Heart College. He and his wife, Valerie, have two daughters, Heather and Nicole. His parents are Raymond and Doris Thrower of Shearer Road in Davidson.

Medical Ethics Today
Caplan Says Rationing Health Care "Not A Good Idea"
By TRACY GAINES

Arthur Caplan, Director of the Center for Bio-Medical Ethics in Minnesota, spoke last week in the 900 Room about rationing health care. He addressed this issue from a practical and philosophical point of view, and according to him it is “not a good idea." He said that the problem would not be corrected by deciding in favor of one age group against another, but by making the health care system more efficient. This could be done by reducing expenditures on unnecessary materials and services.

Caplan says that members of the medical community, economists and others consider rationing health care a viable option because “the cost of healthcare in the United States is $600 billion, which is 11.5% of the gross national product -- and has increased 130% since 1980”. He says that these numbers are deceiving: “we spend the most compared to many countries. But while they pay for long-term care and offer a broader array of services, here [the United States], less is spent on public health and more on acute care -- rescue and repair.”

“The segments complaining the most,” according to Caplan, “are the federal government and businesses.” The federal government is responsible for Medicaid and Medicare and the people who need these services, but also has “to balance the national budget” for which it must supply and allocate funds. Spending cuts are then prioritized by proposals to “freeze on defense first, then save on healthcare.” So when the government must spend too much, he notes that it can make the budget balance by cutting in the wrong area which is health care.

Businesses find that they are paying too much out of the profits made from their products for employee insurance. Caplan quoted Lee Iacocca who said, “$800 out of every car pays for health insurance.” Caplan adds that this puts them at a competitive disadvantage. Industry is not satisfied with this situation because a disproportionate load of the nation’s health bill falls on certain sectors, and they are unwilling to cover the costs of the increases which they are compelled to finance if they want to keep their employees satisfied.

Rationing health care by determining those who can be excluded from the system, as Caplan told the audience, appears to be an alternative which is preferable to allowing the “increasing cost of the proliferation of new technology... the labor of medical personnel... basic medical equipment” to continue to skyrocket above the price of living, and subsequently, the resources of most people.

Caplan gave some suggestions about how rationing could be implemented, saying that it could be accomplished in one of four ways: rationing by age, sin, marginal utility,and through high technology.
* Rationing by age would occur by placing a limit on the age someone must be in order to receive certain types of health care.
* Rationing by sin would call for “not paying for people who inflict damage on themselves: smoking, drinking, etc.”
* Rationing by marginal utility - a strategy by which medical decisions would be made on the basis of economic perspective.
* Rationing by slowing down access to high technology and restricting what those who depend on federal funds can get.

Caplan stated emphatically that these methods are all unethical and that they are a result of what he calls the damage which economists have done by limiting the meaning of rationing to the “discussion of any distribution of property,” when in fact, in “medical discussions, rationing is any conscious exclusion, based on an allocation bias, from lifesaving health care,” he says.

Furthermore, Caplan says that although rationings are necessary and happen all the time, for the system to come to a decision as to what the criteria are for arguing it, he listed several conditions which must be met, such as the level of the scarcity of resources, the undesirability of the service for the general population, and the efficacious use of the resource whose demand far exceeds its supply. These conditions are only met for the most part in organ transplants, lifeboat diplomacy and battlefield triage, and the current medical situation is challenged by only one of these descriptions. Any other options taken are the result of bad planning and inefficiency.

Photo Courtesy of College Relations
Arthur Caplan spoke last week about Medical Ethics.

Caplan suggests that besides rationing, other steps can be taken towards the proper allocation of resources and, in his words, “the practical basis of [medical] practice.” He says that there could be recertification every 5 to 10 years for doctors if they wish to keep their licenses, in order to start weeding out bad medical professionals. Another suggestion is that the government demedicalize the system by substituting doctors for nurses who agree to treat patients in areas which are not desirable to the doctors. Another idea would be to put nursing homes on the housing authority bill, unless the home will be used specifically for the care of sick elderly patients. Otherwise, he continues, “elders are competing with youngsters for medical care.” These are all suggestions directed towards cutting down inefficiency in a few areas of the practice of medicine.

For more general improvements, Caplan suggests that before money is paid, the financers should ask for basic data on morbidity, mortality, and outpatient services, and that the government should move fast to reform malpractice, since it burdens the system with billions of dollars. In his final remarks, Caplan stated: “it would be a challenge to take on the design of the [health care] system of today... it is easy to say that there is no money for the poor or children who need bone marrow...” The kind of efficacy needed to “take on the challenge is necessary because medicine should not be a club with which we beat people for their choices in life.”

Committee
By GIRISH GVALANI

The Rape Awareness committee hosted a discussion last week on the film, “The Accused” concerning rape and its psychological, emotional, and social effects on the victim. Those present included Sandra Smith, Heather Bender, Lisa Jadwin, professor of English, Yvonne Kendall, professor of Music, and Peter Tavernise. Tavernise opened the meeting by commenting on the fact that most incidents of date-rape seem to originate from a miscommunication between the woman and the man. Commenting on this, Kendall said that the problem lay not simply in miscommunication but an attitude that if a woman acts in a way that seems to be provocative to the man, then she is “asking for it.” This may include wearing a revealing dress, looking attractive, being friendly, or even being in a relatively helpless position, such as jogging alone at night. Jadwin remarked that the general attitude seemed to be that “if you are a good little girl and do what we tell you then you will be safe. Otherwise, you will deserve what you get.” She also said that sadly enough, this was the attitude not only among men but also women, especially older women. Kendall and Smith remarked on the fact that such an attitude put women into a prison, ostensibly for their own safety. Such an attitude meant that a woman could not take a walk at night without an escort, could not walk back to Irwin from the 24-hour room without an escort, and could not even go to the infirmary at night without an escort. At this point, Kendall humorously remarked, “We are not raping anybody. Why don’t you put all the men in jail?” Smith then said that this feeling of imprisonment caused deep-seated feelings of guilt and inferiority in women, a feeling caused by a false and cruel preconception about women. Jadwin called upon all those present to bring about a change in this attitude by taking a stand against all actions that reinforced it, such as strongly opposing sexist jokes and treating women with more dignity and respect. Tavernise then remarked that the committee was in the process of starting up an educational program to fight against the attitude. It was also mentioned at the meeting that the college needs to treat rape as a much more serious offense than it is considered now, and have the police cover the campus more securely.