6 Wednesday, February 7, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

(In Good Health 2 2)
It's hard to know what to believe these days

By MARK D. PUCKETT

Just when the health people up in Washington had us believing that Oat Bran was the miracle cure for everything
from constipation to cancer, we find out recently that Oat Bran is no better for us than Rice Bran or
Potato Bran or even Lamb Bran for that matter. In addition to this hoax, I read in a famous magazine
that fluoridated water may cause cancer. Our prostates and kidneys and ovaries may wither away, but at least we won't
have a lot of plaque build-up or cavities WHEN THE REST OF US DISINTEGRATES.

To top off this rotten rhubarb pie with a piece of warm melted blueberry ice cream, it seems that the
air teems with other pernicious half-truths and baneful fabrications and noxious prevarications and outright deleterious lies about the health world.
Take a gander at the following:

1. Smoking is bad for you. WRONG. There have been a lot of smart scientists recently who have been doing
a lot of research in the field of smoking who say, “It is actually beneficial to charbroil your lungs and
annoy other people with choking fumes of death. And even if smoking does cause cancer, it doesn’t matter because cancer’s
not that bad anyway.”

These same scientists also confuted the theory that people who smoke are social cripples with oral fixations: “These people aren’t
social cripples with oral fixations. Instead, they are actually very confident people with anal fixations.”

2. Dipping is bad for you. WRONG AGAIN. The same scientists who did research on smoking in the previous paragraphs
have brothers who are also smart and who have researched a bunch of stuff about dipping. Here’s what they found
out: “[dipping] doesn’t cause lip cancer or rotten teeth. And even if it does, it doesn’t matter because lip cancer’s
not that bad anyway. Besides, dippers don’t care what they look like--they stuff half a can of dip in their
lower lip at one time and look stupid; why should it bother them that they might look stupid when their
lips fall off and their teeth fall out?”

3. Exercise is good for you. FOOLED YOU. It turns out that aerobic exercise such as running, biking, jumping, sex,
and hunting is a big waste of time.

Said one fraternity member of Patterson Court, “Yeah, exercising bothers me. I run and lift weights once a week and
I’m still a fat loser. I mean, I drink some on Thursday, Friday and Saturday and a little on Wednesday
and Monday and maybe some on Tuesday, but I hardly ever drink on Sunday.”

Said also one member of the befittingly named Patterson Court Female Eating Troughs--uhh, Houses: “I don’t get it. I went
jogging last month and did aerobics once when I was eleven, but I still gain weight. I never go to
meals because I have a supply of good food in my room that Mommy sends me--fudge, brownies, potato chips, jelly
doughnuts.

I can’t figure it out: why am I such an insipid superfluous anti-pulchritudinous pork-bellied minx?”

Yeah, I was surprised too. I guess you have to keep an open mind and expect anything in this day
and age.

BASKETBALL, from page 4

with 36 points and 20 rebounds. He hit 10 of 12 in the second half. Davidson was once again ahead
at the half 36-25 but were outscored 20 to 8 in the first 8:40 of the second half. Davidson’s last
lead was 49-47 with just under ten minutes left. The Citadel took command from then on.

Hunter continued his strong play with 18 points.

Davidson’s next home game is Saturday night against Miami (Fla.) at 7:30.

IMAC, from page 4

IVCF overcame A Basketball Team 56 to 37, the Moon Dogs beat Captain Pike 40 to 35, Beeg’s Plebes succumbed
to Iming 43 to 47, Mike’s Back bombed the Old Men 57 to 44, The Nice Guys slid by DFWB
67 to 40 and White Man’s Disease infected the Salty Dogs 42 to 25.

In street hockey action, the Harpoon Platoon harpooned Lemieux (the team, not Mario) by a score of 12 to 5.
Rusk won by forfeit over the Calimare Brothers. In the season’s highest scoring game, In Your Crease blanked the Close
Doors 25 to 0. The Harpoon Platoon pulled into second place behind In Your Crease by slapshotting The Puckers 11
to 3.

That’s it for this week. Keep a lookout for announcements about picking up rosters for team handball, softball and volleyball.

Our 1990 Valentine cards and gifts have arrived.

Brian Michaels Ltd.
Traditional Clothiers for Men and Women

CLEAN SWEEP CLEARANCE

50-70% OFF
All Fall Merchandise

Shops on the Green
I-77 / Exit 28
Torrence Chapel Road
892-4046

Hours
M-W 10-6
Thurs-Fri 10-7
Saturday 10-5

Sarah Ann's

Undercover World
Lingerie Salon

Hours
M-Th 10-6
Fri. 10-9
Sat. 10-6
Sun. 1:30-5:30

Magnolia Plaza
Suite 5
Huntersville, NC

Valentine Sweethearts Welcome

704/ 892-0112

All Major Credit Cards Accepted
