Thursday, February 22, 1990

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Here is the panel discussion on German reunification that you may have missed

By JAY J. CHAUDHURI

Dr. Louis L. Ortmayer, Professor of Political Science, Davidson College:
It is a very timely topic... the wall, the changes, the elections, the vast number of events that are occurring daily... it’s almost to the place where each hour something new is happening and one waits for the latest facts to come in with the latest policy statement and so forth... the subject of change in the Germanies involves not only interests but a great deal of speculation, and also in many quarters fears... And yet there are a variety of issues that people are looking at closely to see if the unification is brought about. European unification and Europe 1992 is now in many ways a new subject of revision and concern... The Atlantic alliance and the agreement of the two plus four talks which will occur after the East German elections... brings about security issues including that of the Warsaw pact or its successor organization. There is the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe... which will become increasingly important... The year of elections will be extremely important not just for Germans in East and West but for Europeans generally and also I would say for Americans. And finally economic and monetary union, not just a powerful economic Germany and powerful economic Europe, you will have many vital influences and impact upon our lives and an increasingly interdependent economic world. A Germany which is revitalized and large, and certainly, very important competitor.

Mr. Klaus Franke, Member of the Christian Democratic Party in the West German Bundestag (Parliament) from Hamburg:
Nixon once told us “the twentieth century was the most bloody century in history.” We have the chance for us and our children and grandchildren to step into a new century without war and oppressive in Europe... The change we face in Poland, Hungary, especially Hungary and Czechoslovakia was one of the key elements for the change that now takes place in Germany. The reunification is on its way, in many sense, and nobody wants to stop it, neither the United States nor the Soviets... There’s still a lot to do, not only among us, the Germans, but also, by stabilizing the young democracies in Poland and Czechoslovakia, and the change which might take place within Bulgaria and Romania... One main step on the way of reunification will be the elections which take place on the 18th of March in the GDR. And we the parliamentarians from West Germany, but all people in my country or from my part of the country, we are very involved to help our friends in the GDR to be successful in these elections because they have not only an impact on the schedule of reunification and to the situation in the GDR, but I’m quite sure that the results coming out from these elections also have a great impact on our elections which will take place on the 2nd of December this year.

Mr. Alexander von Schmeling, Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany, Atlanta:
The reunification of Germany certainly has great international implications. When the East Germans went to the streets in the summer last year the word “reunification” was no issue. They wanted liberty, freedom; they wanted to be able to go to West Germany. Reunification came up only after the first emotions of freedom and free movement were over. But since then reunification is the issue... we can finally really say nobody is officially anymore against reunification... Now it is a reality, and it took some time of persuasion, education, not so much by us, but by more knowledgeable people of their own nation. Our gallup polls, we have made in Western countries and Sweden and Poland, which were not conducted by German agencies but by local agencies show overwhelming support by the population for reunification, just in Poland it is not so overwhelming. But in all the other countries the people really see no danger in German reunification, that is particularly true for young people... The German reunification is first and foremost...Address at the conference on German Reunification. Photo Courtesy of College Relations.

The closing statements

Ambassador: Great task ahead for GDR

By JOE MARIS

Norbert Reemer, the acting GDR ambassador to the United States, was the key speaker at last week’s conference on German reunification. According to Reemer, the biggest problem facing the GDR and the FGR is the adaptation of the GDR into a democratic framework. The task will be great, he said. The GDR can bring into the process the defeat of socialism, a structure of East German ideas, a highly developed labor force, and a highly developed culture.

According to Reemer, the GDR is a socialist state but a “retarded socialist state” that has suffered from a failing economy, a severe police system, and disruptive political thinking. The GDR was in a poor position, he continued, and change became necessary to ensure the survival of the state. After changes in Moscow and a quiet revolution in the Church, German people took to the streets and last October, the government toppled, he reported.

Reemer addressed the proposed integration of the two economies, the placing of military power completely in the West, and the stabilization of East German democracy. Reunification will also unite the mostly homogeneous ethnic Germans with one another, he stated.

Klaus Francke, a member of the West German Bundestag, closed the session by encouraging Americans to: “help us Europeans stabilize the way of a new democracy,” so that Europe could live together “in a unified European house in peace and freedom for all of us.”

The Johns Hopkins Institute for Contemporary German Studies collaborated with the Dean Rusk program to present the two-day conference.

Foremost a German affair. It is Germany which decides about its own future and therefore we must be the ones who have to decide it... The other complex is an economic one... Economically, we are also not so completely free anymore. We are a staunch member of the European Economic Community... we will certainly not do anything without having discussed it with our friends from the West. The last question is the neutrality and NATO and so on... In the field of how we will fix that security problem I am at a complete loss.

Dr. Wolfgang Nicolai, Visiting professor from the Institute for International Law and Politics, Potsdam, German Democratic Republic:

I think from the point of view of the East German people it is nearly the most important and most urgent question - to create such a monetary union. We have to see the situation in Eastern Germany is nowadays characterized at first that every day nearly 2000 or more people leave the country; and secondly, the economic life weakens day by day, of course, as a result of the crash down of centralized planned economy which we had in our part of Germany for 40 years... It is quite clear that the policy of subsidizing, for instance, food stocks and other consumer goods, lost fifty billion East German marks and we would have never been able to continue it in the 1990s. After the revolutionary situation... all the economic problems could be seen more and more... our industries need the necessity of modernization. Furthermore, we have a terrible environment... Furthermore, we have a situation in our cities in which downtowns from a historical point of view, valuable buildings are crumbling. No investment exists which is necessary to prevent such development which we now have. We nearly have forty years... in which nothing was done in this field... After opening the wall, the wants of people to travel have increased... and that is perfectly understandable... The situation for the people has become more and more hopeless, and we are now confronted that we have to do such steps to boost jobs and especially the Federal Republic, from an economic point of view, can assist in such steps... I completely agree with the policy of the government in Bonn; the best way is a currency union... It is the way which would not be very painful for our people... I hope we will have the chance to better...

See PANEL, next page.