~ Wednesday, February 28, 1990

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CANADA, from page 6

Crotch level with a scream, despite the snow shoes that I had affixed to my bare feet earlier (testicles retreating with great celerity into my body). Just joking! But really, there was a lot of snow! At 9:00 Saturday morning we awoke to blizzard conditions and ten inches of freshly fallen snow. The city of Quebec, which was a rainy, muddy, icy mess the day before, had been transformed overnight into a winter wonderland. In response to such egregious fortune, we celebrated our triumphant road trip with 6.2 percent (alc./vol.) Labatt Carnaval beer and Nature Valley oat/honey granola bars for breakfast. Yum, Yum....Burp!

While breakfasting, we reviewed the Carnival brochure (in French) and decided that we had about two hours to burn before the main spectacle was to begin. Thus, after a quick shower, we packed our belongings, returned our room keys to the front desk, and headed out into the snow--Hutch in his weather-beaten sneakers and I in my heavy-duty boots. Quebec city streets are very nice in the summer, I imagine. However, in the winter they become veritable bobsled runs without good snow tires and chains. Although Hutch and I did remember to bring our goggles and spandex running suits, we were without the necessary bobsledding helmets, so we packed our belongings in the car and headed toward the St. Lawrence River by foot.

We traipsed through the streets of Old Quebec until we arrived at the city wall. On a clear day, the St. Lawrence River is easily seen from this vantage point, but today the snow was falling quickly and was aided by a sharp, cold wind from the north which cut visibility drastically. We headed on down the steep hill for a better look, following a windy road which led into a small, traditional village known as Petit Champlain. As the name suggests, Petit Champlain is a small cluster of businesses, restaurants, and apartments housed in characteristically colonial French-Canadian stone buildings located at the base of Quebec’s fortification. The outcropping had most probably grown out of Samuel de Champlain’s original city limits as Quebec became a more popular fur trading post in the late 1600s. In the colonial era, this area most probably attracted many folk dedicated to river commerce as well as trading. Petit Champlain burned in the 1960s, however. Consequently, carved wooden signs with French lettering swing with the breeze and advertise the wares of modern businesses in restored colonial buildings.

After a fashion, we arrived at the icy banks of the St. Lawrence River. Because of the dense haze of snow in the air, Hutch and I still could not see clear to the other side of the river. Instead, our attention was focused on chunks of ice which floated freely in the river. Neither of us had ever seen ice flows, except on Natural Geographic specials highlighting the clubbing of young seals. The river and its ice cubes were quite interesting, but John was underdressed, and the -2 wind chill cut deep...he whined. So, we departed the river and wandered toward the city walls again. We must have looked official--or at least somewhat knowledgeable of the area--because two guys came up and asked if we could help them find the Plains of Abraham. Pleasantly surprised by their question, we gave them directions and grinned...we know this city.

Time had flown...we were freezing and getting hungry. The extra peanut butter and jelly sandwich that I had eaten for breakfast held me over just fine, but the cold response--shivering--had taken away much of my energy. Slowly, we made our way back up several flights of stairs, through the gate of the city, and onto a main road which led to the Place du Palais. The streets of the Old City were filling with people, and as we approached the city center, the number of people increased dramatically. The sidewalks, which were being cleared by a snow plow (not much larger than the Cushman of Davidson renown), were crammed full of people who were all headed for the festivities. Some wore mittens, fur hats, fur coats, and boots while others wore just a coat and gloves and carried a red cane with a snowman crown. We found out later why these people could wear so little and endure the cold wind so easily...the snowman crown is easily removed, revealing a hollow cane filled with brandy. (Nice trick!) Neither Hutch nor I could either afford to buy an official winter carnival cane or fill it with brandy, so we simply ignored the souvenir stands and headed for the shouts and screams of the crowd.

From our vantage point, Hutch and I could see a banner advertising “LE BAIN DE NEIGE!” so we hurried over toward the crowd. Peering above the crowd on tip-toes, we observed about 15 college students clad only in bathing suits waving flags and frolicking in the snow. Sure enough, snow bathing is a tradition! Canadians are weird folk....but some babes are really cute in bathing suits even in the snow! The crowd cheered wildly as the group of snow bathers danced in the snow to music piped in from a local radio station. There was a definite party atmosphere...cheekswere rosy and hollow canes were being drained and refilled. In order to combat the pains of hunger and cold, we decided to walk around. We had already visited the snow sculptures, so we headed toward the western sector of the Place du Palais. To our right as we exited the main ring, we saw several fires above which hung large iron kettles. A pleasant aroma rose from each kettle, so we decided to investigate. As it happened, the booth was dedicated to making maple syrup candy by boiling maple sugar and pouring portions of the hot syrup into a trough filled with snow. The syrup cooled quickly and became toffee-like candy. The booth was especially popular with small children who enjoyed eating the maple candy. John and I both were desperately hungry, but before we could reach into our pockets for the admission price, I spotted a large sign above an even more popular booth. The large, bright red letters of the sign read: “Soupe Gratuite Campbell.” Free soup... we were there. It seems that Campbell soup was introducing a new variety of soup to the Canadian nation: Teddy Bear Soup. Hutch and I enjoyed several cups of the soup, which warmed us up (it had a distinct chicken flavor with cute little pasta teddy bears floating in it... Hutch enjoyed its pleasing bouquet), and then returned to the large crowd which had again grown quite loud with cheering. The international lumberjack competition had begun. We watched several competitions and then decided that a dry, warm building was desired. We headed down the hill to rue Saint-Jean and located a croissant shop in which we ate a lunch of ham and cheese croissants, drank a cup of warm coffee, and defrosted. After a bit, John declared that it was time to purchase souvenirs and beer for distribution upon our return to the “mainland.” The snow was still falling, although not as hard as earlier, so we decided that our plan to stay until 2:00 am had to be modified. My diesel rabbit did not have snow tires nor was I sure of the roads... we were to leave at 4:00 pm. After purchasing two t-shirts, we found the little store in which we had bought our first twelve-pack of Labatt Carnaval beer and picked up a second twelve-pack. We departed the store with content smiles and headed back to the parking garage that housed my car. The carton of beer seemed to attract much attention because, as we found out later, many stores had already sold their last case of commemorative beer. We had a precious commodity, and the passersby thought that we were party animals. We would yield to no one until we reached the car. Exhausted and happy, we finally made it to the car, loaded our purchases into the car, and headed out. Hutch and I missed the night’s activities which are known to be wild to say the least. It was unfortunate, but we couldn’t risk running off the road into the St. Lawrence River never to be heard from again... we headed down the steep Quebec hills to the river basin. Once there, we attached a Canadian flag to the car antenna and savored the thrill of being in Quebec, Canada. The trip was a success—we enjoyed the personality of the city and its carnival in addition to purchasing a non-export beer. The trip back to Davidson was long, but somehow we made it. Along the way, we almost ran out of diesel fuel; enjoyed a most beautiful sunset outside of Ottawa; hooted at the cows in Harrisonburg, VA; and were actually happy to drive through Mooresville, NC. We arrived in sunny Davidson at about 11:15 a.m. Sunday morning and went, first thing, to the post office. (We had made the decision to first stop at the P.O. about 750 miles prior while just outside Syracuse, NY.) Hutch found a “mushy” Valentine from a svelte young woman while I received mostly bills. Listening to the Doobie Brothers “driving down the highway” we enjoyed the victory lap around Davidson College... “you remember that sign in the mountains that said ‘Watch out for Falling Rocks?’... They’ve been looking for that Indian for years!” (Nice joke, Hutch!) After driving all the way from Quebec—over 2000 miles in two days—we couldn’t even find a parking space! We got out of the car, stretched in the midday sun, and headed into the dorms to greet our friends and ask: “So, what’d you do this weekend?” A few of our interviewees were sleeping and replied on average: “Ugha... ahhhh... leave me alone I’m sleeping... I had a great weekend...” One person, however, summed the weekend spent in Davidson well saying: “I got drunk at boxer bash... went to bed... I wrote thank you notes to members of my family... I had an interesting weekend.” Sure, you had an interesting weekend... we enjoyed the people, history, and culture of Quebec City all in one weekend. It’s a trip that we’ll remember all our lives.

---

Spring Break 90

STOCK UP NOW!

T-shirts, sweatshirts, & coverups.

15% OFF regular price merchandise with Davidson College ID

Offer good: Feb. 28-March 31

Your T-Shirt Store & More...

“Specializing in Custom Screen Printing”

123 N. Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115