6

INDIA, from page 4

kick out of him.

Kirk Williams in India
I wanted to go abroad, but I had already seen most of Europe. India was a place hard to get
to unless you planned ahead.

I had envisioned India as having extensive poverty, so I wasn’t shocked upon witnessing it. Indians see Americans as very
wealthy and friendly. They have a low opinion of American women. They often picture them as harlots because of the
American movies they see.

When in India, you sometimes cannot get American products. India does not have Coca Cola; instead, they have Campa Cola,
which is sweeter. Fruit drinks are more popular in India. American television is almost never seen because of the language
barrier. They get some low-quality American and foreign films. I was really shocked to see “Batman” come out in video
in October when it was a movie just that summer.

Our Davidson group stayed at Madras Christian College, which is in southwest India. The men stayed at the houses of
the college president and the program director, while the women lived at the guest house. The whole group ate their
meals at the guest house, which was also our meeting place.

The group spent a month traveling in northern India. The South was more conservative, with few tourists and less westernized.
In places, the North was overrun by tourists. Our group enjoyed the days spent at the town of Ooty, a
British Hill Station. The altitude there was 7,300 feet, and the 50-degree cloudy temperatures were very refreshing.

We had one week to travel by ourselves. I went with Jay Wylie and Sabrina Khan to Kashmir, a city
in the northwest. Kashmir is beautiful and much greener than most of India. The Indians there are Muslim and are
seeking independence.

I had one particularly frightening experience during my stay in India. One day after walking through Rajasthan, an abandoned fort,
I discovered that there was no transportation to take me to the bottom of the mountain. I was really scared
because I had to walk through a bad neighborhood; furthermore, it was getting dark and I was carrying a lot
of money.

I had to deal with young children constantly grabbing at my pockets for valuables. The cities were constantly noisy. It
was hard for me to relax. Even in the park, people would come up to me and ask me about
myself and my country.

I enjoyed the temple in Sri Brahadeshuara, which gave me a special religious feeling. Negarkat, Nepal was a very relaxing
place. The temple is about 8,000 feet tall.

One night I saw the most incredible sunset I had ever seen overlooking the Himalayas. The next morning I rose
at 5:30 to see the most beautiful sunrise I will probably ever witness.

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

OXFORD

Brian Michaels Ain

CORNELIUS

Traditional Clothiers for Men And Women:

CLEAN SWEEP CLEARANCE

All Fall Merchandise

50 - 75% Off

Mon-Wed 10-6
Thurs-Fri 10-7
Saturday 10-5

Shops on the Green
I-77 / Exit 28
Torrence Chapel Road
892-4046

Alterations Extra All Sales Final

As always, 10% discount on non-sale items with valid student ID

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Council to recommend qualified students to study for one
year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly
enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college; this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S.
College in Oxford. 3.2 minimum index in major required.

An alternative program which is sponsored by a U.S. University is available for students with minimum indexes of 2.7. Students
will have social and athletic rights in an Oxford college and the fees are substantially less.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism
courses are taught by senior-level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy
internships are offered (with academic credit) in

The Washington International Studies Council

London (Fall, Spring, and Summer).
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002

EO/AA (202) 647-3275

Call

Allied Health Professionals
STEP UP TO TODAY’S

Discover a challenging future with opportunities for professional growth. Serve your country while you serve your career with:

- great pay and benefits
- normal working hours
- complete medical and dental care
- 30 days vacation with pay per year

Find out how to qualify for today’s Air Force.
SGT LIMMY SUMMERVILLE

104-377-1812
Station-to-Station Collect

AIR FORCE.
