Thursday, January 18, 1990  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Thieves walk with more than victory

[This letter was sent to the Duke Chronicle and is reprinted here along with a response from a Duke student.]

To the editor:

On December 21, I had the pleasure of witnessing the great athletic ability of your university’s basketball team. Their win over Davidson was quite impressive, and I send them my congratulations and best wishes. I am not writing, though, to express my warm feelings about Duke University. Instead, I would like to convey to your entire community my reaction to an event that occurred after the game.

As I was leaving in my car, I saw a rather racy-looking blonde with her friends in a Camaro. She was gleefully showing them a sign that they had apparently stolen from Davidson. It is green and reads “Baker Sports Complex.” This incident surprised, disappointed, and insulted me. It was not enough that your basketball team stole our pride by doubling our score 89 to 44. Unfortunately, some of Duke’s students had to steal our property as well. I have less respect for that girl than she apparently has for your honor code or others’ property.

Now, this incident may be unimportant, but we do not tolerate lying, cheating, or stealing here. I felt that I should indicate to the entire Duke community with this letter what I indicated to that girl with my middle finger.

James Carswell

Duke doesn't need holier-than-thou lectures

Dear Editors,

On January 11, the Duke University newspaper published a letter from James Carswell, a Davidson student, who claimed that a “racy-looking blonde” had stolen a Baker Sports Complex sign right after Duke defeated your basketball team on December 21.

Now, whether this girl has any real connections with Duke University, connections the letter assumed evident, is unimportant, although Mr. Carswell has no way of being sure that the female in question has ever been anywhere near Duke’s “entire community,” as he put it. What does matter is that the letter overlooked a few points.

First of all, even assuming the thief is from Duke, Mr. Carswell has decided that she automatically represents all the elements of the Duke community. I don’t remember any sort of pep rally here celebrating this act, and I’m sure none of us here at Duke would think more highly of this girl if we knew of her actions. In addition, if Duke officials knew the identity of the thief, I’m sure her action would not be abided. The letter seems to imply that Duke breeds common thieves and their inherent values, an idea which is sadly mistaken.

Secondly, we at Duke need no holier-than-thou lectures from another school. Mr. Carswell declares that Davidson College “does not tolerate lying, cheating, or stealing,” an admirable trait to be sure, but so superficial. Can you tell me, Mr. Carswell, that no Davidson student has ever perpetrated a similar sort of crime? Don’t even try. I live in Davidson, two of my siblings graduated from Davidson College, and I’ve worked for the college, and thanks to these connections I have heard of worse instances of behavior by D.C. students than simple sign-stealing.

But do these instances prompt a rebuke to the entire Davidson community, or the “middle finger” Mr. Carswell has so graciously extended to the Duke populace? No. Your school is no purer than ours, Mr. Carswell, and any insinuation along that line is simply ludicrous. I hope none of your fellow students harbor any similar feelings of superiority.

Sincerely,

Ken FishbackDuke University Class of '92

Thanks to students who fasted

Dear Friends:

On behalf of the Metrolina Food Bank Organization, I want to once again express our deep gratitude to your Hunger Awareness Group, and all who participated in the Fast/Post-Fast Dinner, for your contribution to our food distribution program. You have given most generously with donations totaling $500.44. 

Each dollar used by the Food Bank provides at least 15 pounds of food items. The demand for our resources increases during the holiday period and the winter months when there is a greater sense of urgency towards helping those in need. Your contribution comes, therefore, at a very critical time. 

Our appreciation to your group for continuing support of our work is deeply felt. Food-banking is successful only when a caring community responds to the need for the provision of food assistance. Thank you for your confidence in our work and for sharing.

Sincerely,
Anne Register
Executive Director

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

We shall overcome... we must keep marching on, no matter how high the walls and how big the giants...

The above phrase was proclaimed at the Gospel Songfest, held last Sunday in commemoration of the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. The speaker was Reverend Carrie Bolton, professor of sociology at Livingstone College, pictured on the fourth page of this issue. Bolton challenged the audience to persevere, in spite of circumstances. Perseverance in overcoming the odds, perseverance in applying oneself to a vocation even after several falls, perseverance in proclaiming truths in the midst of epidemic untruths, and perseverance in striving for equal rights for all people, not just the well-off.

Twenty-five years ago the “walls” limited African-Americans’ everyday activities—don’t go there at night, you can’t go through that entry. The giants were police dogs, lynchers, fire hoses, a distant administration, state laws, and staunch racist attitudes. Living now in comparatively more tolerant times, one wonders if he or she would have been strong enough to fight those giants. Today there are no fire hoses or police dogs, but other remnants of the wall still remain. Giants and walls can be seen in all aspects of society, not just race relations. As we look around the world today, we wonder if the chaos will straighten itself out. Walls of misunderstanding exist between groups, the giants Poverty and Ignorance are in Davidson and elsewhere, the giants of War, Bloodshed and Drugs are at work, and the difficulty of climbing walls drives some individuals to take drastic measures.

“We need to keep dreaming,” said Bolton. I believe that. Maybe life has been too good to me, but in the midst of all the evil and misunderstanding, I always see a little light. Dreaming is not enough, however. Action is necessary to bring about change. The challenge to Davidson is to be more sensitive to one another’s needs and to act where justice is not being practiced. We must keep marching on.