THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990

Court Incapable of Holding Beer?
By RACHEL STARMER '93

I am quite concerned, as I hope we all are, about the alcohol policy on this campus. I am rather disturbed by Benji Ormand’s opinion article (“Cure the Keg,” Sept. 6) concerning the drinking problem on this campus. I agree with him in his assessment that the alcohol problem is not a problem with the alcohol, but with responsibility. He writes that the problem is a: “lack of responsible drinking among Court party participants.” But I believe that the problem goes beyond just irresponsible drinking. Among students, among fellow human beings, there is a real lack of responsibility for other people. That is the root of the problem.

I agree, though, with Ormand that declaring Davidson a dry campus or banning kegs won’t solve the problem—at least not directly. I am distressed by the flippant tone of Ormand’s article. According to his account of the Greek Week disturbances, a group “drank a little too much” and “near death was involved.” Now, I think that if “near death” came out from his hiding place behind the trees—however passive and without reason as Ormand makes him out to be—someone drank a good deal more than “a little too much.” This attitude is the exact attitude that has proved Patterson Court incapable of holding its beer.

In an age of “complete independence,” people no longer feel that they have any right to tell others, even a friend, that what they are doing is bad for them, or that they don’t think they should be doing it, i.e. drinking to excess. I’m not saying that people should not drink at all. Drinking in itself is not harmful. But there is a difference, as we should all know, between social drinking and drunkenness. Drunkenness is not good for you, your body, or your mind. Davidson is producing alcoholics, if not dependent on the actual substance, then dependent on the attitude—denial.

The real problem at Davidson lies in that people will not take responsibility to tell someone that they should stop drinking. Too many of us just stumble over our classmates who are incapable of finding their own way home. Benji Ormand seems to feel OK, though, because he can make it home. He writes: “I have always felt comfortable at a court party knowing no matter how irresponsible I act, at least I can walk home and spare others the repercussions of my foolishness.” But, I ask him and others like him—are you also sparing yourself your own human dignity? What if you couldn’t make it home—will there be people sober enough, responsible enough, to take care of you—all passed out on the floor? You yourself may not be the type to pass out cold, but some are. And even if you do make it back, weekend after weekend, there’s something wrong with being in that condition time after time. Would anyone tell you? Or, will you eventually die, if not physically, mentally—becoming a person with a sole direction and desire toward the bottle?

Something needs to happen. We can’t go on like this. Davidson is producing alcoholics, if not dependent on the actual substance, then dependent on the attitude—denial. We make less of the frightening stories by using the passive voice, attempting to say that there isn’t anything wrong here and that the administration and trustees have no justifiable reason for stepping in. Yes, the problem is the students’ problem, but we don’t seem capable of taking care of ourselves or each other. Yes, police and telephone poles are less forgiving—but are we to be forgiven unconditionally and without consequence—likechildren? I don’t claim to know how to solve this, save a drastic attitude change in the student body. I hope no one has to die for that, as if no one has ever died before.

VE C.- BEST LEG COMPETITION, more from Chapel Hill, NC. 
D.A. Thompson | Rude Notes and Random Scribblings

Let's Be Honest
Before we get started this week, I need to take a few lines to apologize for a mistake I made in last week’s column. The title of Robert Fulghum’s little book is All I Really Needed to Know I Learned in Kindergarten, not, as I wrote, Everything I Ever Needed to Know I Learned in Kindergarten. I beg the forgiveness of those who I have offended with such an outrageous inaccuracy. You must understand, however, that the mere mention of that heartwarming collection of essays brings tears to my eyes and a lump to my throat, and I just can’t think through the overwhelming haze of emotion. Anyway, I’m sorry for that.

Well then, we have more pressing concerns to address. We all know the swinging, hot, yowser-wowser, work yourself into hysterics issue this term has been the possibility of changes in Davidson’s alcohol policy. The trustees seem to have found our...

See MINI-BARS on Page 6

Rachel Starmer is a sophomore.

Male, Hairy Legs, and What of It?
By TOSH CRYSTAL '93

OK men, I’m here to save face for our half of the human race. Let’s talk about how bad we ain’t. When I was a junior in high school, I began to notice that the feminist-liberation movement was becoming less of a thing to read about and more of something that affected me. I in no way mean that I felt it was all claptrap. There are some things that are very much valid about the women’s liberation movement. But I also feel that a huge amount of it is pure nonsense. It strikes me as vengeful and inflammatory bitterness that does nothing but harm and perhaps even sets back the women’s movement.

For starters, the first thing that ever got on my nerves about feminism was the title Ms. What is Ms? It’s not real English. My teachers all got mad at me (this affected my grades) when I refused to say Ms. Whomever. It’s Miss. No other language has developed a Ms. besides ours. Seems like they know something we don’t. (Spanish accepted Mrs. = Señora; Miss = Señorita.) There’s not even a long version of Ms. How would you spell it? mizzz? mizs? Get outta here, we know it ain’t any more a real word than oh, say... “ain’t” for example.

Boarding school feminists also chastised me for such sins as holding doors and saying “Ma’am.” Yeah, right. This level of feminist theory has followed me to Davidson. (Remember Ms. Kendall’s suggestion for prom kings?!? Hee hee. Oh, hey, I’m not laughing. Honest.) Meanwhile I’m reading instructions on how to treat what, hairy-legged women from Cali...

See LEGS on Page 6

Opinions / What do you think of the proposed changes in the alcohol policy?

Yandell Wood | Senior
Glenview, Kentucky
I agree with most of the changes except the no keg idea. We need to show the faculty that we are not against them. It's good that they are giving us a say in what goes on.

Robert Fowler | Junior
Syosset, New York
Some are good, some are lousy. It's good to have a chance to add our input. Moving to beer and wine is OK.

Mary Faulk | Sophomore
Seabrook, Maryland
The trustees have us scared with these ‘dry’ rumors. The policy should stay the same.

Jim Bear | Freshman
Elkin, North Carolina
The policy should stay the same.

Compiled by Jim Bear