THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990

3

Photo Courtesy of College Relations

Kurt L. Schmoke spoke on the "decriminalization" of drugs at last Friday's Convocation.

Mayor Schmoke Speaks at Davidson

Continued from Page 1

overcrowded; military efforts will also fail according to Schmoke. He also advises doctors to use illegal drugs on AIDS patients
since this “drug disease” is spreading rapidly.

Justifying his policy, Schmoke said, “our drug laws are blatant and inconsistent.” The mayor cited the government's subsidization of nicotine
and the prohibition of alcohol earlier this century as two examples. During prohibition millions of Americans were drinking, government was
corrupt, and criminals were prosecuted repeatedly, a situation very similar to today's drug problem.

The debate of decriminalization of drugs has gone unabated since it was first proposed in April 1988 and Schmoke doesn’t
“want to see the debate end.” “That won’t happen until the status-quo is challenged at open marketplaces of thinking like
Davidson College,” said the mayor.

Mayor Schmoke, who came to office in 1987, has held a number of political positions during his career. In 1977
he was appointed by President Carter as a member of the White House domestic policy staff. He also served as
an assistant United States attorney in Baltimore and later as state’s attorney for Baltimore City, the chief prosecuting office of
the city.

While running for mayor, Schmoke said that he wanted Baltimore to become known as “The City That Reads,” and since
his election he has overseen the passage of the largest increase ever in the city’s education budget.

Schmoke received his Bachelor of Arts degree in history from Yale University in 1971. He studied as a Rhodes Scholar
at Oxford University in England, and in 1976 he received his J.D. degree from Harvard University Law School.

Black Fraternity Meeting

Continued from Page 1

predominantly black fraternities do not exclude others on the basis of race or other considerations, although they are fraternities; therefore,
they consist only of men.” He also feels that blacks' decision to attend Davidson shows a commitment to integration, “because
there are not many of us here and we are forced to integrate ourselves into most of the activities that
are going on at Davidson.”

Some members of the KAP chapter at UNCC attended the forum, among them was a white member, Ron Stallings. When
asked if he had received any negative feedback from people outside the fraternity, Stallings said he had not. Conversely, most
of the reactions he had from both blacks and whites were positive.

President Kuykendall also attended the meeting and was asked about his views on KAP. Kuykendall, however, said that he was
waiting to receive the CCRL’s recommendation on KAP, and that he expects that recommendation in the “relatively near future.”

The recent report on the Quality of Student Life stated: “the task force recommends that the college support the efforts
of students to establish a traditionally Black fraternity.”

Program Supports College

Continued from Page 2

will not be offered as a Davidson major, students may study it as an academic “concentration” beginning with the 1990-91
school year. Tong said the program should be attractive not only to students who intend to study medicine. “The fates
may dictate that any one of us may have a child born in an extremely fragile situation, a parent who
has Alzheimer’s, or a bad accident or a long-term disease. It’s our responsibility to help students appreciate the problems that
they and their fellow citizens will face.”

Tong said next year’s medical humanities concentration curriculum will include a new course, “Perspectives in Medicine,” which will become the
required prerequisite course. To earn the concentration, students will then be required to take four courses from such departmental offerings
as “Genetics, Society & Decisions;” “Sex Technology and Morality;” “American Medical History;” “Medical Ethics;” “Bioengineering & Health Technologies;” “Economics of
Population;” “Death & Dying;” and “Contemporary Moral Issues.” One of those electives must contain an experiential component, which might be
conducted at the Carolinas Medical Center.

Recycle

Wait. Don't throw away all your old notebooks, tests and photocopies! The Davidson College Recycling Committee will be providing containers
on the Belk side of Chambers all during exams for students to recycle all of this semester's paper. Recyclable paper
includes: computer paper, notebook paper, any colored or white office paper, and envelopes. Please don't place glossy paper or newspaper
in the containers and remove metal spirals from notebook paper before recycling it! Keep an eye out for the containers.
Do your part to help save our earth.

RECYCLE!

Students register at the Career Office-Faculty and Staff enter at the Computer Center. Contact Lydia for further information, 892-2432.

See Campus Computer Reseller for Sweepstakes Rules and Regulations.
© 1990 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

Win the computer you need to succeed in the real world and a chance to use it there.

Enter April 11th-April 25th.

Apple's Real World Sweepstakes

Claris Corporation
Apple Technology Marketing Software

Advertising Agency
Real World Sweepstakes

