12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990

Ethical Issues in AIDS Education

By TOM MEW

On October 18, a discussion was presented on the topic of Ethical Issues in AIDS Education.

The guest lecturer was Professor Bell, a member of the faculty at the University of South Carolina who has served
on several state and national panels on the subject of AIDS education.

Noting that the current moral climate is one of “distrust and intolerance,” Professor Bell stressed the importance of “democratic education”
over more compulsory methods such as mandatory testing and incarceration.

She also said that AIDS is a particularly difficult disease to deal with, because the issue of AIDS education is
also crowded with moral questions and dilemmas.

Describing public response to the disease as “haphazard,” Professor Bell also noted that the nature of the disease is changing.
AIDS has now evolved into a “chronic disease.”

Also, new studies show that there is an increasing rate of infection among heterosexuals, particularly women and the urban poor.

Bell stated that AIDS treatment is particularly problematic because people must make lifetime reforms, and the modes of contraction include
the addictive habits of IV drug users.

Bell stated that “success is achieved only if persons can be responsible for their own learning.”

She also said that AIDS education was “an inappropriate platform for moralizing.”

She noted that education has been effective in changing the behavior of such high-risk groups as IV drug users.

However, she added that there has been relatively little change in the attitudes of adolescents and young adults.

In order to address this age group, she called for more explicit education.

Bell concluded by stating that the bottom line in AIDS education is “the elimination of the disease.”

Summing up her idea of a democratic approach to education, she stated that the principle of democratic education shouldn’t be
to force any particular social value, but to prevent the spread of the disease.

I'd never have believed that one little computer could make such an incredible difference in my academic and working life.

Miriam Stoll
B.A. History, Dartmouth College
M.B.A. Stanford Graduate School of Business

“I became a Macintosh convert in business school. At our computer lab, I'd always find lines of people waiting to
use the Macintosh computers, while other computers just sat there. So I had a choice: wait for a Macintosh, or
come back at 6 A.M. to grab one before they'd all be taken.

“After business school, I took a job at a large bank and used my Macintosh for producing everything from spreadsheets
to a company newsletter.

“Today I use Macintosh to help me run my own management consulting firm. When I give a presentation, I can
see in people's faces that they're really impressed. And that makes me feel great.

“Sometimes I take Friday off, put my Macintosh and skis in the car, and head for the mountains. I ski
days and work nights. It’s perfect.

“You know, I can't say where I'll be in five, ten, or fifteen years, but I can say that my
Macintosh will be there with me.”

For further information, visit the Computer Services Center or call Lydia Lorenzin at 892-2432

@

Why do people love Macintosh? Ask them.

For more information about humane alternatives to animal dissection in classrooms,

CALL TOLL-FREE
DISSECTION HOTLINE
1-800-922-FROG
A student outreach project of the Animal Legal Defense Fund

© 1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited the Washington International Studies Council to recommend qualified students to study for one
year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly
enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S.
College in Oxford. 3.2 minimum index in major required.

An alternative program which is sponsored by a U.S. University is available for students with minimum indexes of 2.7. Students
will have social and athletic rights in an Oxford college, and the fees are substantially less.

Written evaluations are available from Oxford students who have previously studied most subjects at most leading U.S. colleges. Telephone talks
with students from your college (or in your field) can usually be arranged by WISC.

INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism
courses are taught by senior-level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy
internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall, Spring, and Summer).

The Washington International Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E., Suite 450
Washington, D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275

EO/AA

by Mark Weitzman
