Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXII THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990 NUMBER 8

Deep South Tournament Champions

The Women's Field Hockey team soundly defeated Wake Forest 5-1 to capture the Deep South Tournament Championship for the first time in Davidson history. The Deep South Tournament selected 11 Davidson women to the all-tournament team, which will compete this weekend at the Southeast Regional. See Sports on page 14.

Davidson Selects Three Faculty Members For Professorships

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

Anthony S. Abbott, Benjamin G. Klein, and Alexander J. McKelway, three long-time faculty members, have been appointed to named professorships in their departments. The announcement was made on October 27 at Davidson’s Fall Convocation. Abbott and Klein, members of the English and mathematics departments respectively, were named Charles A. Dana Professors. McKelway, a member of the religion department since 1968, was appointed the Paul B. Freeland Professor.

Designation of a college professor to a named chair is an acknowledgment of high esteem and is done in appreciation for contributions to the mission of the college. Abbott is a poet and highly popular professor of literature and creative writing. He graduated from Princeton University Phi Beta Kappa with high honors in English and received his Ph.D. in the field from Harvard University in 1962. Before coming to Davidson in...

Continued on page 4

Students React To Helms’ Win

By TOM KOONCE

“Let’s hold out hope there is going to be a better day in North Carolina,” were the words of defeated Senatorial candidate Harvey Gantt as the 1990 election ended with the voters of this state sending Jesse Helms back to the United States Senate for his fourth consecutive term. This year’s campaign was intense and ugly at times as Helms fought the battle of his life against Gantt, the liberal former mayor of Charlotte. Gantt was not a well-known player on the state political level at the beginning of his bid for the U.S. Senate, but he campaigned across the state for several months and made his name known to most North Carolinians. Gantt talked mainly about improving education, health care, and the environment while cutting...

Photo By Tom Koonce

Senatorial candidate Harvey Gantt was defeated by Senator Jesse Helms this Tuesday.

...back on defense spending. He attacked Helms’ Senate votes against bills in these areas. Senator Helms was unable to campaign as much as Gantt because he was trapped in Washington for the debate over the budget. Helms was able to make up for much of this by campaigning hard the last ten days and running a blitz of TV advertisements. During these last campaign days Helms was...

Continued on Page 4

Davidson Divests From Category II Firms in South Africa

By LIZ YAREMA

Davidson’s policy of partial divestment in South Africa has entered a new phase in college investment history. Davidson no longer has any money invested in what are known as “Category II” companies. The college assesses South African companies based on the evaluation system known as “Statement of Principles.”Designed by the Reverend Leon Sullivan in 1977, the statement lists seven principles to which a company must subscribe if it wishes to be considered as actively and aggressively fighting apartheid. The first three principles are concerned with desegregating the workplace, paying 30% above the Minimum Living Level (MLL) for a family of five as determined by the University of South Africa, recognizing employees’ rights to join unions, giving equal pay for equal work, and eliminating racial discrimination in benefits as well as pay. Companies which are judged to meet these basic criteria are considered “Category III” - the lowest of the signatory ratings. Companies which make efforts on behalf of black and non-white education and strive to end apartheid are classified as “Category II” or “Category I” depending on the extent of their efforts.

In the mid-eighties, the Davidson Board of Trustees adopted a policy of partial divestment in South African business. Deciding to invest only in category one and two companies, the board set up a committee to monitor the progress which the companies were making toward fulfilling the principles of Sullivan’s statement. Robert Sutton, Vice-President for business and finance and chair of the monitoring committee, explains that Davidson has investments only in companies which are seen to be doing a “good job aggressively fighting apartheid.” He goes on to point out that the issue...

Continued on Page 4

Students Rally To Save Quips & Cranks
By KATIE REYNOLDS

The future looks brighter for the 75-year-old publication, Quips and Cranks. After a week of urgent notices, some 50 to 60 volunteers came to an emergency meeting on November 5 hoping to save their yearbook. Two seniors have signed up for the position of editor. The media board will meet this week to choose an editor and to call the staff together. Assistant Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano says, “we have enough people who have made strong commitments that it will be fun this year.” Ideally, the task of assembling a yearbook demands at least 20 people, but there has only been a group of about 12 for the past few years. Last year’s small and overworked staff chose not to continue full-time with the yearbook this year.

Trouble for the yearbook began last spring when no applicants came forward for the position of editor. “We went ahead and got a contract with Olan Mills for the school pictures,” Marsicano says, “in hopes that we would get an editor.” As the situation became desperate, signs appeared across campus stating “News Flash: No Yearbook for ‘90-’91" which galvanized student concern to preserve this Davidson tradition; at least for the present.

INSIDE
News
Nicaraguan expert discusses U.S. policy with The Davidsonian. Page 2
Professor Marcon proposes changes in early learning. Page 3

Opinions
D.A. Thompson writes about Davidson "Love".

Sports
Special 4-page pull-out basketball preview issue.

Campus Living
Faculty profile: Dr. Kuzmanovich.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036