6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

A New Challenge for the SGA
Doug Jobe '91 and Lori Rockett '91

Each new year provides a new focus and challenge for the SGA. This year is no different. However, this summer
has brought many changes to our campus which the SGA must consider and work with. The SGA has already compiled
a list of many of the changes on campus. We feel the students should understand the changes and be aware
of ideas for future improvements. In the long run, these changes will benefit us by providing a better environment in
which to live.

Security. Probably the most noticeable change on campus is the revamped security office. As most students know, past SGA administrations
worked hard to improve the police force. Our new police chief, Ray Thrower, is working diligently to give us the
best security possible. I urge people to respect the new security laws and be patient with its ideals. Ray Thrower
is attempting to establish a uniform pattern to parking that we have never had before. All cars will be towed
that are not in legal spots so I strongly suggest everyone examines the map which shows all the parking areas.
They have been so strict because they want to set a pattern now that will eliminate the illegal problem quickly.
It seems to be working quite well. The number of tows is declining daily as students begin to understand the
new system. The SGA will be working closely with Chief Thrower to suggest a few modifications in his system, such
as parking for cooks, along with working to increase parking spaces and lighting in these areas. Several other parking concerns
include: the visitor section in the parking lot behind Lingle Manor, 2 hr. parking on Concord Rd. (effective in a
week or two), and parking appeals. In order to address these concerns, the visitor parking behind Lingle will be monitored
to assess the need for it; the town of Davidson will be contacted to work out a compromise concerning infirmary
parking; and a Parking Appeals Committee will be set up by Thrower to be composed of a staff member, a
faculty member, and a student to discuss appeals on parking tickets. Chief Thrower wants to hear student feedback about the
police force and its system, so please pass along your opinions. The escort service is in working order. The officers
are trying to promise a return time of two to three minutes. Students need to utilize this new service to
its full potential. It is there for our benefit, so utilize it. Call 892-5131. Several SGA plans in the future
are to increase the campus lighting and to work on installing more emergency phones throughout the campus.

Education Policy. Minus grades will be implemented in the Fall of '91. However, there will be more time for discussion
on its implementation. There have been suggestions for more forums and to have each department discuss the implementation procedures amongst
itself with at least one student who is majoring in that department to also be included in the discussion. The
semester length will also be discussed this year so look for some forums on this issue during the next few
months.

Residence Life. Although we do not have cable TV yet, it definitely appears to be on the horizon. The Environmental
Action Committee is still pushing for the construction of kiosks and should be successful in the near future. Due to
the new policy on lofts (3 feet from ceiling to head) the RLO is looking for new ways to create
space without creating a hazard. A committee is being formed made up of 2 freshmen, 2 sophomores, and 2 juniors
to discuss and suggest new changes for the dorms. If interested in serving on this committee please sign up in
the residence life office or call Doug Jobe -6635. Many things to be considered in the future are new dorm
locations and renovations of present dorms.

Student Health Center. This area of campus has also undergone many changes. Foremost, students may now make appointments to see
the nurse practitioner. Also, a doctor will always be on call at 4 pm each day. Student confidentiality is now
guaranteed. Plus, Georgia Ringle is now serving as a health counselor to be a confidant and source of information concerning
students’ health concerns. The Student Health Options Committee, which is an advisory committee to the Health Center, needs interested people
to serve on its board. If you are interested please talk to Dean Leslie Marsicano. We are also looking into
obtaining special parking permits for sick students to be administered by the nurses in order to avoid towing by the
Davidson police.

Condoms. They are now also available, free of charge, in the First Aid boxes in all residence halls. The present
Davidson condoms are the same condoms used by Planned Parenthood. Even though these condoms have a2-year expiration, the administration will
be throwing away the condoms at the end of each term in order to preserve their quality. We strongly urge
the students not to abuse the privilege of having these condoms.

The SGA Needs Student Involvement in Committees

The SGA is comprised of committed individuals who want to represent the views of their segments on campus. This commitment
includes everyone on campus because the SGA looks to its constituents for ideas, criticisms, and support. So, read the SGA
minutes, know what is happening on campus, and give your opinions on the issues to your SGA representative. We want
to represent you, but we need your support and input to do our job effectively.

One way everyone can get involved is through the SGA committees. The sign-ups begin in the Union conversation pit on
Sept. 6th and end Sept. 14th. The committees are: Campus Services and Facilities, Campus Security and Parking, Solidarity Committee, SGA
Phonathon Committee, Charters and Bylaws, Trustee Contact, Athletics Committee, Faculty-Student Social, SGA Weekend Committee, Rides Committee, Leadership Training, Career Symposium
Committee, and the Public Relations Committee.

Doug Jobe is President of the SGA and Lori Rockett is Chancellor of the SGA.

Cure the Keg: The Real Problems
Benji Ormand ‘91

A slight tremor has been felt recently in the hallowed hills of Patterson Court, one which indicates an illness in
Davidson’s finest social outlet. There is a movement afoot to ban kegs from Patterson Court. Bring-Your-Own for all Court parties.
I think this is a bad idea.

If you are reading this wondering why the trustees and the administration would consider such a drastic and terrible act,
let me fill you in. Last spring, a group of rambunctious youths was participating in a pseudo-affiliated Patterson Court social
event and drank a little too much. Ambulances were necessary, and near death was involved. As you might imagine, when
Davidson alumni turned on their televisions in Charlotte that evening and saw a story about a party gone astray, concern
was expressed. They were displeased. Go figure.

The problem on Patterson Court is not the availability of alcohol, even in large quantities, but the lack of responsible
drinking among Court party participants. The result: the college administrators have decided that if Patterson Court cannot regulate itself well
enough to prevent tragedy, then they will address the source of the problem. Remove the kegs, remove the problem.

I do not believe that such an action will ultimately cure the illness they are trying to remedy. I believe
that banning kegs is like treating the symptom rather than the actual malady. The problem on Patterson Court is not
the availability of alcohol, even in large quantities, but rather the lack of responsible drinking among Court party participants. There
was drinking on campus even when Davidson was alcohol-free, and there will always be drinking on this campus, be it
exposed or hidden.

Banning will solve the short-range problems like the college’s liability in the event of an accident and vandalism associated with
drunken exploits. But it will not address what I feel are the more serious problems associated with drinking like alcoholism,
date-rape, or driving while impaired. If common containers are banned on campus, there will still be no limit to the
amount available to those with an open pocket. It won’t curb the amount consumed. In fact, some of the houses
this past weekend demonstrated this, serving cans of beer instead of cups from a keg. It was simply a difference
in price, not in the quantity provided.

Furthermore, I would really hate to see the drinking games moved onto the roadways where the police and the telephone
poles are less forgiving. If Patterson Court dries up, then roadblocks be damned, more people are going to be driving
to get alcohol, some of whom will not even be in suitable condition to drink let alone drive. I have
always felt comfortable at a court party knowing no matter how irresponsible I act (and I too have succumbed to
the siren song of stupidity), at least I can walk home and spare others the repercussions of my foolishness.

Admittedly, Patterson Court’s alcohol policy is not a sure-fire defense against tragedy. Unless we as students decide to behave responsibly,
there is no defense which will prevent disaster. Somehow, the very real drinking problem that exists on this campus needs
to be addressed. This childish obsession with drinking needs to be corrected. The role of alcohol as a social lubricant
and source of entertainment needs to be changed. A ban on kegs, while solving some problems, would simply replace the
looming specter of liability with the demon of DWI. The rest of the problems will go untouched.

Benjamin Ormand is a senior English major from N.C.

Recycle this Davidsonian.
