The Davidsonian
Wednesday, January 31, 1990

Sophomore Paul Denmond is up in the air (doing what, we're not exactly sure) but he had no trouble after
that as he scored a total of eight points against Wofford last Saturday.

Photo by Ted Richardson

‘If not true, say so
the athletic department
the opening is due to understaffing and complaints of irritation, one source said, at least until we can fill intramurals.

Persistence pays off — ‘Cats scratch Terriers

By CARTER PAYNE

Thanks to four clutch free throws by senior A.J. Morgan and the stellar play of guard Alan Hunter, Davidson was
able to overcome a scrappy Wofford team 79-67 last Saturday in front of 1,183 fans at Belk Arena.

The game was an even battle for much of the first half as neither team was able to go on
any sort of a substantial run. Then the Wildcats came out smoking in the second half behind the strong inside
play of freshman center Detlef Musch (14 pts., 8 rebs.) and senior Jay Schmitt (11 pts., 5 rebs.). Davidson was
up by as many as 16, but the Terriers refused to quit, and gradually chipped away at the Wildcats’ lead.

Hunter protected the Davidson advantage the entire night with sharp outside shooting and dextrous ball handling under tough Wofford defensive
pressure. Hunter finished with a team high of 17 points and a game high eight assists.

It appeared as if the Wildcats were on the verge of losing yet another close contest this season with just
under two minutes to play. The Wildcats had been ice cold from the line all night, and the momentum seemed
to be in Wofford’s favor.

Then the lid came off the Davidson basket as Davidson went on to sink 8 of 10 from the line
in the final 1:38. Four of these eight came off of clutch shooting by Morgan, whose shots found nothing but
net. The free throws sealed the victory for Davidson, and ended the 12-game losing streak. Paul Denmond (13 pts.), Darry
Strickland (8 pts.), and Mo Gray (8 pts.) all contributed with much-needed solid play.

Davidson hosts UNC-Asheville on Wednesday at 7:30 and faces Campbell away on Saturday night. Both teams have previously beaten the
Wildcats.

IMACtion

Alan Hunter had a spectacular night, scoring 17 points and making a game high of eight assists. Here the Houston
senior maneuvers the ball past a Wofford player.

Photo by Ted Richardson

Third Beast is one winner

By QUINN MCCUTCHEN
Week four of the IMAC winter sports season was full of exciting basketball action and a slight amount of street
hockey action. But first, Bud Bowl results: Bud 33, Budlight 34.

Back to basketball. There were two forfeits. The Dribblin’ Titties forfeited to the Rimmers, 3rd West forfeited to Morning Drug
and Oh Golly We're Hot Today didn’t show up for their game against the Wheatpies. Now the real games... The
Cousins smeared Smegma 35-28, the Buschmen succumbed to Los Neros 42-29 and Jerry Curl and the Activators greased by Davidson
Minus by the score of 44-40.

In other games, Third Beast overcame Skage’s Alpha Beta 38-33, B.O.B. stymied Prime Times 47-35, the Nice Guys defeated Thrice
Yea 53-44 and the Third Rich POs narrowly beat Brant’s Beauties 41-20. Mike’s Back dared to do the dastardly deed
of defeating the Docs O’ Dunk 68-42, the Moon Dogs outpointed the Kockshots 62-37, the King Cobras rolled by A
Basketball Team 99-37 and IVCF roasted Captain Pike and the Weiners 41-31.

Intramural street hockey is currently dominated by In Your Crease who have defeated the Harpoon Platoon 8-3 and the Broad
Street Bullies 9-1.

The Puckers beat Rusk 8-2. In the battle of no shows, the Calimare Brothers forfeited to the Close Doors and
the Close Doors forfeited to the Harpoon Platoon.

Keep that winning streak going--come support the Wildcats when they take on UNC-Asheville at 7:30 p.m. in the new gym.
