2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

Davidson Approves Gender Studies Concentration

By LIZ YAREMA

Students interested in “focusing on the significance of sex as a social construct” should be excited about Davidson’s new concentration
in Gender Studies. As its statement of purpose touches upon, the concentration expects that by recognizing gender as an empirical
reality it will stimulate fresh intellectual curiosity and provide new approaches in interdisciplinary research.

The concentration is open to all juniors, sophomores, and first-year students as well as to any seniors who think they
may be able to qualify in time. Men especially are encouraged to sign up. Professor of Political Science and chair
of the Gender Studies advisory committee Mary C. Thornberry says that a large part of the reason the concentration is
called Gender Studies is to let men know that they are welcome and that the courses are appropriate for them
as well.

Dr. Thornberry hopes the concentration will help people realize that gender issues are a part of every discipline--that they apply
to biology and physics as well as to English and history, to political science and economics as well as to
religion and anthropology. “Our ultimate goal,” Dr. Thornberry says, “is to have issues of gender woven throughout the curriculum and
not just in specially designated courses.”

For now though, the concentration offers students a wide variety of “specially designated” topics from which to choose. “The courses
were already in the curriculum,” professor of English Elizabeth Mills says. “The concentration gives students credit for work they already
have been doing.” There are some new courses which have been added as well. The committee attributes these additions and
the existence of the concentration itself to ever-increasing scholarship in the field, in text materials, in student demands and, most
importantly, in faculty interest and support.

The concentration is not solely an academic endeavor, however. Its long-term goal is to “help Davidson men and women function
freely and fairly in the world.” As professor of History Sally McMillen explains, “We want to create a forum for
and raise awareness of related issues.” The committee hopes students, in true liberal arts fashion, will then transfer their heightened
sensitivity to other aspects and interests in their lives.

Whisnant Hired as Director of Major Gifts

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

Acting Director of Development for the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University Steve Whisnant has been named
Director of Major Gifts at Davidson College.

“I’ve been looking to return to the Southeast to a school that values quality education,” said Whisnant. “Davidson fits in
at the top of that list.”

As director of major gifts, Whisnant will have responsibility for gifts over $100,000 to the $150 million Campaign for Davidson.
Gifts and pledges to the Campaign now total over $72 million.

“I came to Davidson having been involved with the planning of the next campaign for Harvard University,” Whisnant said, “and
as I have talked to the leaders of the Campaign for Davidson, both staff members and the volunteers, I have
come to find out that from publications to money raised, Davidson is running a first-rate Campaign.”

The Campaign was kicked off in November of 1989 and is scheduled for completion in 1994.

A Morganton, N.C., native, Whisnant graduated in 1974 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He received a
master’s degree in education from Harvard University.

New Dining Option: Go Underground

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

Davidson has unearthed a new trend in light lunching - going “underground” with the Baker Underground in Baker Sports Complex.
Marked by a blue-neon lighted sign, Underground is a mini-cafeteria serving a variety of healthy edibles such as sandwiches, fruit
juices, fresh fruits and salads, sports drinks, and home-baked cookies.

The idea of dining in Baker was the brainchild of Athletics Director Terry Holland and his assistant, Bob Price. They
hope to generate more traffic in the complex, as well as accommodate the nearly 50 employees who work in the
building and others who use the facilities during the day.Underground is currently open from noon to 2 p.m., Monday through
Friday. “So far things have been really going well,” said Becky Braddock, who is the Underground’s one-person workforce. Every day
the Underground offers a different sandwich of the day, such as barbecue, chicken salad, or turkey cheese pita. Bob Brown,
assistant football coach, said that the convenience of not having to walk to the Commons or to the Cafe for
lunch should attract the lunchtime workout crowd.

North Carolina Student Photo Courtesy of College Relations
Becky Braddock serves lunchtime customers in the new Baker Underground. “It’s a good mixing point,” Art Professor Shaw Smith said
as he spoke in French with an exchange student and munched on salad greens, crisp-cut broccoli, and fresh melon. Tom
Gattiker, manager of special projects for the dining services, says he hopes the hours will later encompass breakfast. Other upcoming
changes include the addition of the Cat Card Service.

Legislature Gets Into Gear
By Jeff Revis

Among the plethora of activities offered at Davidson, the local chapter of the North Carolina Student Legislature is rarely discussed.
This state-wide organization has been active at Davidson off and on since the 1940s. After a recent period of dormancy,
the group reactivated in the spring of 1989. The NCSL is often referred to as the college’s debate club, but
it entails much more than just argument. Interested students experience first-hand the political and legislative procedures of a model General
Assembly. More importantly, the members are offered a forum for expressing their concerns and ideas about current issues to state
and national leaders. Resolutions passed by NCSL are passed along to state lawmakers who then decide the best course of
action to take. Approximately 40 percent of NCSL’s ideas have been written into legislation. This shows, as junior Elizabeth Sellers
said, “Students can really have an impact.”

The NCSL meets once a week to discuss and debate the resolutions they intend to pass on to the North
Carolina Legislature. This month, the Davidson and Queens Delegations will host a meeting at Davidson during the weekend of October
20-21 in Love Auditorium. Between 100 and 150 students from 26 schools from the far reaches of the state of
North Carolina will be in attendance. The main debate sessions will be on Saturday, Oct. 20 from 1 p.m. to
5:30 p.m. and Sunday, Oct. 21 from 10:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Students are welcome and are encouraged to attend
the debates. Hot topics of dispute this month are: the question of a state-wide lottery, the repeal of the state’s
spousal rape exemption, the revocation of driving privileges of felony drug offenders, a call for the mandatory fingerprinting of misdemeanants,
and a proposal to sell $200 million worth of bonds to finance an expansion of the North Carolina prison system.
There should be plenty of hard-hitting debate action. Come out and show your support for the Davidson Delegation this weekend.
Or better yet, for those of you interested in legislation or voicing your views, get involved with NCSL. Besides the
fun of travel and having your opinions heard by students all over the state, NCSL can be a good stepping
stone in starting a political career—North Carolina Governor Jim Martin, a Davidson alumnus, was an active member during the 1950s.
It is difficult to relate the many facets of NCSL, and as junior Warren Cooksey said, “NCSL must be experienced
to be fully understood.”

Whisnant comes to Davidson after 10 years at Harvard, where he began his work as the associate for clubs, managing
152 active Harvard alumni chapters around the world. He worked with Harvard’s 350th anniversary celebration in 1985. Before he was
named acting director of development for the Kennedy School, he took a leave of absence from Harvard to become the
executive director of the Presidential and Democratic Party Victory Fund for the 1988 Presidential campaign. There he led a fund-raising
effort of $60 million. Whisnant’s wife Elizabeth presently teaches elementary school at the Shady Hill School in Cambridge.
