2

Police officer to talk about self-defense

For women only please...

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

While studying in England, Senior Sarah Bayne decided that Davidson needed to provide a method of educating women about self-protection.
During fall semester she arranged for Charlotte Police officer Francis Taylor to give a protection seminar. It will take place
Monday, February 19 in the 900 Room at 7:30 pm.

Taylor has presented her program, which includes a film, demonstration, and discussion, to various groups throughout Charlotte. The program is
designed to help women become more aware of their dangers, and how to protect themselves against assault. Taylor asked that
only women attend the seminar because she learned that men hamper the discussion of women’s issues.

1 hr. Photo Inc.

PICTURE PERFECT PROCESSING
In as little as One hour.

High Quality Developing, Portraits, Black & White, Slides, Copying Old Prints, Enlargements are a few of our services.

We offer a 24-hour drop box and welcome commercial accounts.

Free Second Prints (Limit two rolls with this ad)

Only For Davidson Students With Valid Davidson I.D.
20619 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Southlake Shopping Center
Lake Cornelius, NC 28031
(Between Roses and Harris Teeter)
(704) 892-5400

HOURS: M-F 10-8 Sat. 10-5

A Little Bit Faster...A Whole Lot Better

ALL-COTTON PANTS

in Twills, Duck, Canvas, and Poplins.

Regular, pre-washed, weathered, or brushed finishes.

by DUCKHEAD, BERLE, and TAILOR'S BENCH

$25. to $45.
Our 78th Continuous Year
John Mack & Son

Merchant of Fashion & Quality Apparel for Men & Women

128 N. Main St. Downtown Mooresville

WASH & DRY, from page 1

wait for the dryer. Wet laundry piles up because most students cannot sit on the dryer for one and a
half hours to make sure they are the next in line.

If sufficient washers and dryers cannot be provided then the laundry fee should be optional. Often I do laundry off
campus just to avoid the hassle and in no way do I come anywhere close to getting my money’s worth
from the Davidson machines.”

“Aside from losing a sock or two over the past two years, the laundry has done a very satisfactory job.”

“The laundry does an excellent job on dress shirts. They come out pressed and starched. However, other clothes come out
dingy, shrunken, and wrinkled...Part of growing up is taking responsibility for yourself and part of taking responsibility for yourself is
making time for grooming (this includes doing your laundry!).”

“The only reason I don’t send all my laundry through the service is because the dryers sometimes shrink my clothes
- But the dry cleaning is wonderful - Don’t take away the service!!”

“We are adults! I’d rather save $300 and do the laundry myself!!”

“I think the laundry fee should be OPTIONAL!”

The laundry fee is $350 per year—that’s $1,400 over four years at Davidson (not counting inflation). Both amounts of money
are substantial to most people (students and/or parents) who may want to choose or may need to use the sum
for other purposes. Those people who said that the laundry service was satisfactory also asked that the laundry fee be
made optional.

The two most frequent comments from students on the survey, in fact, were requests to make the laundry fee optional
and requests for more machines.

However, if the laundry fee is made optional, there is some question as to whether or not the laundry could
support a smaller demand for its services.

One option could be to have a mandatory laundry fee that would finance machines for students to do their own
wash. As one student wrote, “What about turning the laundry building into a laundromat with many washers and dryers for
student use?”

The problem with having equipment in all of the dorms is that there is no room for them. Another problem
is the cost of that equipment, whether it be in dorms or a “student laundromat.”

The laundry’s equipment expenditures went from $483 in 1988 to $25,206 in 1989. Translated that means that the laundry purchased
new industrial strength machinery. The need lies in how to make the process of having clean clothes to wear an
efficient one and one which students have a part in determining.

The SGA is trying to help meet that need by continuing their investigation of the laundry service along with the
other facilities falling under the category of auxiliary services, including the bookstore, food service, the Union cafe, and the guest
house.

The SGA’s further study will be carried out by a committee which is soon to be established. Its members will
include four students, two faculty members, Vice President for Business and Finance Bob Sutton, and Director of Auxiliary Services Carleton
Pritchard. Applications for nominations of students wishing to serve on the committee will be available the first week in March.

Many thanks to Sidney Summers for help with and information for this article.

Gifts for Your Valentine!

See our new selection of designs for Valentine's day in addition to...

SHOP

Your T-Shirt Store & More...

Specializing in...
123 N. Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115
