2 Wednesday, January 31, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Central-America trip not too dangerous; plans continue for student visit

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

A group of 15 students led by Religion professor David Kaylor and Political Science professor Brian Shaw will embark for
Guatemala on May 14 and examine the interplay between religion and politics in Central America. Sponsored by the Dean Rusk
program, the traveling seminar will divide a 16-day journey between Guatemala and Nicaragua. The seminar’s approach is based on dialogue
with the residents - ranging from government and military officials, to church leaders and rural inhabitants.

“By exposing the students to a wide variety of views,” said Shaw, “they can more objectively assess the situation and
the conflicts.” The expedition is an extension of the class Religion and Politics in Central America, jointly taught by Kaylor
and Shaw. “The students will have first-hand exposure to the problems,” said Kaylor, “and will gain insight through this educational
endeavor.”

The team will be escorted by “peace associates” from the Presbyterian Church who reside in the region and serve as
liaisons. The experience of these escorts will guide the group away from any perilous areas. “This trip appears dangerous, almost
foolhardy,” said Shaw, “however, our travels absolutely keep us only in areas that pose no threat.”

Senior Doug Hicks was a participant in the seminar group which traveled in 1988. “The personal interaction with the residents
was unforgettable,” said Hicks, “and I wish I could go again.” Caroline Craig recalls her experiences, “Bombarded by all the
new sounds and smells made me feel like a child again.” Shaw summed up the feelings of the previous trip,
“It was emotionally powerful, and probably one of the most moving experiences in the students’ lives.”

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

The Rape Crisis Committee is developing a program to educate Davidson students about rape. Teams comprised of one man and
one woman will speak. Dealing with date rape at Davidson College currently has no written policy. There have been no
cases reported since September. Yet she added that “one in four women are a victim of sexual assault by the
age of 25. There is no reason to believe that it is not true of Davidson.”

If this statistic holds true for Davidson, then the question remains why the victims fail to report the crime. “People
don’t want to talk about it,” said Tavernise. “It’s probable that more have occurred, but people only talk about it
to their hallmates and best friends.” Tavernise said that the rumor that a total of 17 women have been raped
on campus since September is “just ridiculous.” Such a rumor only shortfalls the education progress because “it makes guys think
they won’t get caught or prosecuted.”

Yet Davidson fails to provide a definite, written policy for dealing with rape cases. “If there’s a policy, it’s that
Davidson upholds positive gender relations,” said Senior Peter Tavernise, chairperson. “We plan to generate discussion about the definition of acquaintance
rape.” Tavernise also mentioned that girls take the issue more seriously than men. One of the group’s goals is to
bring awareness to men about what behavior is both legal and responsible.

Concerning the prevalence of acquaintance rape on campus, Assistant Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano said that only one has been
reported since September. “I’m confident that acquaintance rape goes on,” said Marsicano. “Our purpose is to raise consciousness and talk
about it.” Marsicano mentioned that in the past, women have also chosen to individually confront the assailant. The Code of
Responsibility would be taken as seriously as plagiarism. “There are several options that a woman could follow. We don’t push
her into any decisions. The woman could make a criminal complaint, take the case to the Code of Responsibility or
do both.”

EGYPTIAN, from page 1

come from Asia), and thus people from Africa are Africans or African-Americans as opposed to Negroes, blacks or coloreds. There
is no “Negroland,” “Blackland,” or “Coloredland,” but there is Africa. “Kemet” is an African name meaning “the black land” or
“the land of the black”; “Egypt” is a Greek name meaning “the black people.” In Kemet can be found pyramids
and the Sphinx (“pyramid” and “Sphinx” are also Greek words). Among the nine pyramids, there are the tallest stones, and
the oldest and first buildings in the world. Recent theories on the pyramids suggest that they were constructed as observatories.
No one is buried in any of the pyramids, contrary to popular opinion. The Sphinx, at over 10,000 years old,
is the oldest sculpture on earth. Like some 75 - 80 percent of all the statues in Egypt, the Sphinx
is missing a nose and lips. Some statues have been totally decapitated. Why? AccordingTo Browder’s research, Napoleon, the first conqueror
of Egypt, ordered his soldiers to blow off the noses and lips of statues with their cannons. This action destroyed
the evidence of the statues’ identities as Africans and hoped to cover up the plagiarism that would be practiced by
various "Noses and lips, opted to un- Panel of male feminists speaks out.

By GARY WHEELER

In a four-man panel in the 900 Room last Thursday entitled “Why I am a Feminist,” one individual stated, “I
think that I’m an activist in the way that I live my life, I think that I project feminist ideals,
but I’m not a member of the NOW [National Organization of Women].” These sentiments were shared by Richard Terry, Director
of Residence Life. Other panel members included senior Doug Hicks, college President John Kuykendall, and Eric Whytsell, Operations Manager of
the Union. The event was an Open Forum.

All of the panelists agreed that there is some degree of risk involved in admitting that they are feminists. Whytsell
said that the confining nature of the title feminist makes it risky. “Labels are always restrictive - they never seem
to be agreed on by anyone,” he stated. Whytsell considers himself to be more of a humanist, “not in the
heathen sense,” he said, “but just that I like people and I think people should be treated equally.” Another risk
is that it is one of those words that deserves some living up to, and to label yourself that is
to make some commitments that you ought to take on seriously.”

Hicks said that one of the main problems of being a feminist at Davidson comes from some of the women
themselves. “I have heard some women here say ‘When I get married I want to submit to my husband, and
I want to be put up on a pedestal and I’m not embarrassed to be feminine,’ implying that feminists are
weirdo, scum, over there somewhere.” Both Whytsell and Terry explained that part of the stigma associated with feminism is the
assumption that feminists have certain specific ideas about what women ought to be doing. Whytsell explained that he took a
more general view of the activist role. “I actively try to treat women with respect, the same respect that I
give any other person, and try to change the mind of some of the people who don’t,” he said.

Members of the audience expressed their concerns about date rape on campus, and the fact that the college lacks a
specific policy addressing the problem. While Kuykendall considers date rape to be “reprehensible,” he explained that the college's hesitancy to
adopt a formal policy lies in the fact that the college does not attempt to impede individuals from carrying their
case on to criminal court. Terry is not afraid of the label feminist. “I think that I probably welcome the
label a little bit. He hopes that he can dispel some of the stereotypical images that people hold when they
think of a feminist. Kuykendall cited the most obvious argument that a man faces when he accepts the label feminist.
“Someone might say to you ‘You’re not a female, therefore you can’t be a feminist,’” he said.

This rejection of natural features has had detrimental effects among some African-Americans, to African history and culture as stated Browder.
“One of the best kept secrets in the world,” the fact of which has hindered and still hinders African Americans
from knowing who they are and being able to be proud of that and have a positive self-image. The individual
must be responsible for her or his education, he added. “If you don’t know who you are, you will never
know what your capacity is as a person. The best thing you can do for yourself is to find out
who you are and to do the best that you can at being who you are.”

Browder covered a vast amount of information in his presentation, more than has been or can be reported here. Showing
before and after slides of various entertainers who, dissatisfied with their natural features, opted to undergo plastic surgery, Browder lamented
their denial of their true selves. Some examples included Michael, LaToya, and Janet Jackson, Prince, Patti LaBelle, and Stephanie Mills.
The important message in all of this information, Browder said, is to find out and know who you are. He
refers to Browder’s book From the Browder File-22 Essays on the African-American, hear Browder speak on February 3 at Charlotte’s
Friendship Mission Baptist Church and/or hear Asa Hilliard speak on a topic similar to Browder’s on February 18 at 7:30
pm in the 900 Room.
