Che Davidsonian

THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY

VOLUME LXXXII

FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990

NUMBER 17

Photo Courtesy of Colt
Kurt L. Schmoke, the mayor of Baltimore, was the selected speaker at Spring Awards Convocation last Friday.

Mayor of Baltimore
Speaks at Convocation

Discusses the
"Decriminalization of Drugs"

By JAY J. CHAUDHURI AND BRADLEY GRIFFIN

Mayor Kurt L. Schmoke of Baltimore, Maryland, the guest speaker at Spring Awards Convocation, spoke on the “decriminalization of drugs” on Friday, April 20. The speech focused primarily on two subjects: reforming public education and changing the national drug strategy. Both areas were directly related because, according to Schmoke, better education leads to a decrease in drug abuse.

“My hope is that we will put the wallet where the will is in public education,” said Schmoke. “It is a matter of national importance that we improve public education.” Public education strategies would include remedial literacy for both young and old; increase in teacher salaries; increase in the role of the federal government; and reorganization of the educational system. However, there are many factors that stand in the way, the major one being funding.

Schmoke stated that “he doesn’t want drugs legalized” but rather wants “the medical profession to use currently illegal drugs for medicalization.” Schmoke’s strategy would put the “Surgeon General instead of the Attorney General in charge because law enforcement has not and will not solve the drug problem.”

The current drug problem is not only not working but is making things worse. Therefore, Schmoke advocates public health strategies which would not prosecute today’s criminals because jails are already overcrowded.

Continued on Page 3

INSIDE

News 2
Quality of Life Report Released

Opinions 5
Questioning the Integrity of the Honor Code

Campus Living 8
Annual Student Art Exhibition Reviewed

Sports 10
Women's Soccer Signs Mooresville Native

Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity
Informational Meeting Held

Quality of Life Task Force Recommends Fraternity

By GARY WHEELER

A group of about 80 students, faculty, and staff gathered in the 900 Room Wednesday, April 11 for an informational meeting and an open forum on Kappa Alpha Psi (KAP). Several Davidson students have worked in conjunction with members of KAP at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte in an attempt to bring a chapter of the fraternity to Davidson. KAP is a historically black fraternity.

Alan Hunter, Sterling Freeman, Charles Brooks, and Jay Ferguson spoke on the advantages of bringing a chapter of a historically black fraternity to Davidson. All of the speakers denied that a historically black fraternity would exacerbate segregation.

Hunter said that KAP would provide “a feeling of being at home” for many black students “that is not presently provided for at Davidson College.” Hunter, however, hopes that neither black nor white students will consider a historically black fraternity as separatist.

Freeman added that KAP is not only needed by black men on campus, but by those “who don’t know much about it, and those who are totally against it.” He sees KAP as a means of adding a “new twist” to the Davidson experience and as an effective tool for attracting more blacks to Davidson. Freeman believes that KAP would not only help join men of a “common history, a common culture, and a common bond” not only at Davidson, but would provide a network with other fraternity members outside of the college community.

Ferguson directly addressed the question of whether a historically black fraternity would segregate the campus. “I’ve seen what Davidson is capable of in terms of opening its mind to new concepts, and I am steadfastly confident that it can do even more. This is why, in my opinion, a historically black fraternity shouldn't segregate the campus.”

Ferguson went further by pointing out reasons why a historically black fraternity will not separate the campus. “First, the

Continued on Page 3

Photo Courtesy of College Relations
The following students were inducted into the Omicron Delta Kappa Service Honor Society during Spring Convocation: (from left to right) LaClaire Williams, Derrick Willard, Kim Short, Doug Jobe, Susan Ott, Barry Grow, Christy Cooke, Margaret Tietgen, Melissa Garner, Julia Boyd, and Sarah Whitesell.

Habitat for Humanity Walk
Planned For Town Day

Davidson Habitat for Humanity is a non-profit organization based on the belief that home ownership builds strong community. Using volunteer labor over the past eighteen months, Habitat has built four of eleven homes planned on Potts Street in Davidson. These homes have been sold through no-interest loans to families who cannot afford homes in Davidson through conventional financing.

This summer Habitat asks townspeople to help build our fifth home on Potts Street. The Habitat Town Day Walk is part of the fundraising for that effort. Walkers are asked to contribute a $3 tax-deductible contribution, and invited to get additional sponsors to give $3 each. Donations of any size will be accepted. The walk begins on the Village Green at 9 a.m. and follows a 1-1/2 mile route through town, passing by the Habitat site. It will end in time for people to join the Town Day activities at 10 a.m.

For more information: Paula Kelton 892-8622, Ruth Coffey 892-0176, Karen (Kay) Houston 892-8258, or Gracia Slater 892-2413 (o) 892-0688 (h).

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036