THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

Letters (cont.)

Rape Awareness Vital to Davidson

To the Editors:

This letter is in response to Sara Carlson’s article in the September 27 Davidsonian concerning the phone threats she has
received. The calls display an open hatred and ignorance which only accentuate the need for the rape awareness program at
Davidson. Not just for the freshman halls, but for the entire campus. Our social habits and the quality of our
gender relations solidify during the college years—they determine how we will relate or not relate with the opposite sex for
our entire lifetime. What sort of husband or father will the idiot who called Sara be if his attitude toward
women does not change? He felt threatened enough by her articles and existence to call, demonstrating a distorted vision of
power-based relationships. He reacted to someone who upset this vision with violence. What an ignorantly male reaction.

The calls constitute verbal assault and are punishable by law. But that does not alleviate the psychological damage that such
a call can inflict. Survivors and counselors make very little distinction between threatened and attempted rape. The effects are just
as devastating and enduring. They introduce women to the reality of living in fear. Too many women understand this fear
perfectly. Too many men are ignorant of its existence and are ignorant of how much they contribute to its daily
perpetuation.

The Davidson Rape Awareness Committee spent the entire last year putting this program together. Such work takes determination, courage, and
compassion. It is emotionally exhausting. I think the fact that Sara has become a victim of the very people whom
she was hoping to educate is tragic. It does not speak well for the school or its students. Quite frankly,
it disgusts me. I applaud Sara’s strength and willingness to continue working with the committee. I think it is unfortunate
that such educational work is necessary, but as Katherine Strickland pointed out in her article in the same issue, one
in seven women are raped or sexually abused during their four years of college. The saddest statistic is that these
women will graduate into a world where one in four women are raped or abused during their lifetime. Your sister,
your mother, or your wife, Mr. Caller, I pray to God, will not be one of them. But is that
what it would take to wake you up to reality? Perhaps then you would understand living in fear, a fear
to which you have contributed, and which has reduced us all.

Sincerely yours,
PETER TAVERNISE
October 10, 1990

Tradition Important at Alabama

Dear Mr. David Scott:

I am writing concerning your article entitled “Welcome to the Small Time” which appeared in the September 27 issue of
The Davidsonian. Although I found your article interesting, and for the most part well written, you should seriously consider checking
out some facts before you print more ignorant misinformation. I am from Huntsville, Alabama and am a die-hard Crimson Tide
fan, therefore I feel it is my duty to defend the state that you so kindly referred to as a
“home for wayward rednecks possessing between us perhaps the brains of a flattened pigskin.”

Your first ignorant mistake was to imply that no one liked Billy Curry. True, he was not of Bear Bryant’s
“family,” but tradition does mean a great deal to Crimson Tide fans. But since you are from Georgia, and possibly
a Tech fan, you would not know a thing about tradition. Your second and most glaring mistake was to state
that Curry was “canned.” In this instance you are just wrong. Alabama offered an extension to his contract, but he
refused it. Contrary to your uninformed statement, he left for Kentucky of his own free will. Also, Alabama did not
go 10-3 last year, but rather 10-2. Get it straight!

The fact that Alabama is 0-3 troubles me, but it does not disturb me as much as someone making degrading
generalizations about a state that already gets a bad rap. So please, research your facts before printing any more witless
articles.

Sincerely,
BRANNON J. BUCK '94
October 11, 1990

Eliminate All Letter Grades

By Wolfgang Christian and Dan Boye

The recent faculty vote to introduce minus grades at Davidson College points out a fundamental limitation withLetter grades are non-numerical
in nature and therefore difficult to subdivide or average. A change to the direct assignment of numerical GPA points would
overcome this deficiency and provide added flexibility without additional changes in the current academic regulations. We support the French Department’s
original proposal to expand the current grading system to include minus grades. We too have noticed a wide range of
student achievement lumped into a single grade.

Unfortunately, the current assignment of A = 4.0, B+ = 3.5, B = 3.0, etc., divides the GPA scale into
equally spaced symmetrical grading systems or eliminates the current “plus” grade to be replaced by a “new place” grade equal
to 3.7 or 2.7 GPAs. Clearly, what is needed are grades corresponding to GPAs with quarter-point increments without changing the
current assignable GPA points. This is impossible using letter grades.

The recent faculty vote to introduce minus grades at Davidson College points out a fundamental limitation with letter grades, without
such linguistic contortions as A-- or C+/B-. A direct assignment of grade points will solve this problem. In order to
minimize disruption to academic standards, academic regulations, and record keeping, the conversion to a GPA system should be implemented in
a straightforward way with the following faculty resolutions:

1. All grades will be assigned on a GPA scale of 0 to 4 with the following assignment to the
previous letter grade system:
- 4.0 = A = Excellent
- 3.0 = B = Very Good
- 2.0 = C = Good
- 1.0 = D = Poor
- 0.0 = E = Fail

2. Faculty may assign any GPA grade to the nearest quarter point.
3. Faculty may restrict their grading to the nearest half or full GPA point provided they list their grading scheme
in the course syllabus and announce it during the first week of class. Faculty may continue to send grades to
the registrar using the current grading system and the registrar would convert them to the GPA system.

Wolfgang Christian and Dan Boye are both Associate Professors of Physics.

---

Sara Carlson

The Great Towing Controversy Must Continue

Davidson is riled up. People stop other people and ascertain opinions. Students laugh and discuss and tell personal stories to
emphasize their points. The administration responds with phone calls and letters. I’m not referring to the possible war in the
Middle East, Harvey Gantt, abortion, AIDS, David Souter (remember him?), the proposed trash incinerator, or even recycling. I’m talking towing.

Finally, there is an issue within grasp of our experience and pocketbook. We understand being late for class and rushing
out to find our (illegally parked) car towed to the never-never land of Satellite Hell. We can visualize our checking
accounts dwindling directly into the fat recesses of the Mystery Profit Black Hole. We feel this one. And we’ve come
out with a vengeance.

Our apathetic hibernation is finished. We will no longer sit numbly at the side of Issue Avenue, snoring while millions
of Causes go marching east with reactionary lobbyists following. We will stretch, shake our prone bodies, and crawl up the
bootstraps of respectable Youthful Idealism. Maybe we’ll even register to vote!

Our parents have named us “The Lost Generation.” We are pictured as tweed-clad intellectual mannequins stumbling blindly through a labyrinth
of Important Things to Worry About, falling frequently through a lack of political volition. We can prove them wrong. Once
we whip the towing devil into submission and publicly execute Mr. Bob Sutton...

---

Continued on Page 8

---

Helms. I'm a Republican. Helms represents North Carolina values. He's not afraid to take a stand on controversial issues.

---

Who would you vote for: Jesse Helms or Harvey Gantt? Why?

Thomas L. Presson '91: Helms. I've always been a Republican across the board.

Spider Wormuth '92: Helms. I think his position on the arts issue is ridiculous. I trust Gantt.

Nicole Scoggins '93: Gantt. He stands for the people, Helms doesn't. To represent the people, you must represent all people,
no matter what their race or sex preference is. Helms doesn't do that. Gantt's position on abortion is better because
every woman deserves a choice.

Mark Little '94: Gantt. Because I don't like the radically conservative views of Helms.
