Wednesday, January 31, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Lucia:

Dear Editors,

We have endured the creation of issues from non-issues in the pages of The Davidsonian for some time now, and it has always made us wonder why exactly we must provide a forum for the instigation of debate. It is indeed an asset to students to have a venue for exposition of issues which concern them, but it is conversely a liability to have these spaces filled with some of the ‘journalism’ we have witnessed in the past. Case in point: the recent articles from Lucia.

Finding out about the ins and outs of life at PAX is not something which strikes me as particularly important. If it was important to me, I would have investigated PAX during the pre-self-selection period, as I and everyone else was free to do. It is apparent that a very small portion of Davidson College chose this option, and that the self-selection figures published in the issue of The Davidsonian reflect the lack of interest of the student body as a whole.

It is not my intention to make fun of the members of PAX or their organization, and certainly not its recent demise. It is to point out the folly of such articles—consider the same sort of article written on why I love PiKA or Sig Ep or Warner Hall. People in these organizations chose them because they know about them and like what they know. People who chose not to join these organizations have likely found out enough about them to know that it is not the place for them. I am so happy that Lucia finds PAX so wonderful. I find SAE wonderful, albeit probably for differing reasons, but I have no intention of soliciting half a page in the newspaper to convince people who are unfamiliar with our fraternity that it is such a swell enterprise. Those who think so have probably joined our house and those who do not probably have sought their eating experience elsewhere.

Then we have militant feminism. I personally have no problems with the concept of equal treatment of the sexes. I also realize that perhaps the biggest problem which feminism faces is not the treatment of women in interpersonal relationships, but discrimination in the workplace and society in general. It exists, it is real, and it is wrong. I agree. But I really feel that the issue of the noun which should be assigned to the female gender is a trifle insignificant. Perhaps if Lucia spent her time petitioning for the rights of women to participate in combat, or if she wrote her Congressman (or woman) and worked toward establishing a national cut-off age where one should call girls women, she might feel that she has helped the women’s movement a bit more.

Now we get a suggestion that the simple traditional practice of Homecoming Queen election is destructive to the rights of women the world over. Can you PLEASE find a real issue to complain about?!? Surely there are women’s rights issues which stir your female blood more than homecoming traditions! The election of a homecoming King reminds me of the Brady Bunch episode in which one of the boys (men, actually, and I think it was Greg) runs for Homecoming King—early seventies humor at its best. As the homecoming queens of the past three years indicate, at least to me, beauty has nothing to do with being crowned Queen—it is a popularity contest, pure and simple, and it could not be anything else, for there are no criteria for selection other than the popular vote.

If you think that the houses of Patterson Court are furthering the subjugation of women through an expression of camaraderie and spirit for three minutes during a football game, I can only speculate on the views you hold concerning real issues in the women’s rights movement. If you think the Queen election is so sexist, I suppose you are also vehemently opposed to the sexist practice of making professional sports teams all-male, or the clearly unfair male-only draft perpetuated by our country’s military; after all, if your concern is equal opportunity and treatment of the sexes, these issues make our homecoming festivities pale in comparison.

Now that you have your own column in our journalistic showcase, how about writing about issues which really have impact on the Davidson community? I am fairly sure that we would all, guys andgirls alike, benefit from such a change. 

Sincerely, 
Scott W. Goodwin ‘90 
Bill Wood ’90 
Tim Hagood ’90 

Cut Lucia Loose

Dear Editors,

Unfortunately again last week, The Davidsonian subjected the student body to another edition of “Lucia Lets Loose.” Despite my reluctance to respond to her column for reasons of respecting her opinion, I feel I must. I certainly did not apply and enroll at Davidson without the knowledge of the vast amounts of academic work. After all, who could forget the oft-rumored USA Today ranking of Davidson as the nation’s number 2 workload school? Nevertheless, I believe that the academic load does at times interfere with the extracurricular activities which the school offers. 

In the late 1970s and early 80s, Davidson students were not only involved in their school activities, but were genuinely concerned with the well-being and maintenance of their extracurricular time. Take for instance the battle students waged over the removal of WDAV from student control. Student reaction was visible and zealous; to no avail, one might say, but at least they could be involved in the decisions which affect their years at Davidson. Today, the caring attitude still exists with respect to extracurriculars, but not to the same extent. Too often Davidson students find that their time is so bound by academics that they cannot participate in, say, Union board activities with full devotion. I do not ask that Davidson’s academic standards be lowered—God forbid—but extracurricular activities are very important in capturing the Davidson experience. To have their continued success hindered by inordinate amounts of academic work is a shame.

I have paid attention to Lucia’s column.

See GOODRUM, page 12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Bring back graduation speakers

Despite the preponderance of articles in this issue devoted to the subject of rape, the editorial will not address that particular concern this week, although strong feelings do exist on the editor’s part. It is hoped that after making inquiries of certain sources, a stronger argument may be presented. Instead, let us take a look at the traditional graduation ceremony at Davidson. Having attended two, and soon to attend my own, it is fair to say that I am reasonably justified in making a suggestion. Especially when I imagine the memories I would like to have 20 or 30 years from now.

The present ceremony (if I’m not mistaken) consists of a prayer, a hymn, a very short farewell and statement of good luck from the president, and the conferring of degrees. The entire procedure does not take more than 45 minutes—at the most one hour. The most memorable part of the ceremony for graduates is the moment when they march across the stage to receive their diploma. That experience should never be denied anyone after four or five long years of academic rigor. I dare suggest that an extra 15 minutes be allotted for a guest speaker. Such was the tradition in high school, but the point of this argument is not to return to one’s youth, when it was believed that all needed to hear words of wisdom. Many colleges and universities still exercise that tradition, and Davidson should at least consider it.

The priority of those attending Davidson's graduation ceremonies is to hurry—receive the diploma, take pictures and get out of the sun and those uncomfortable clothes. Fifteen minutes longer would not make that much more difference. An inspirational speaker can do a lot for a graduate unsure about his future, or anyone else for that matter. Davidson needs to add that particular component—someone who can present a theme with power, conviction and eloquence, someone who will deliver a challenge that would inspire all to act, someone who will not simply tell anecdotes, but instead address realities that need to be faced. A speaker of such skill will always be remembered. I have heard such speakers, and it has been well worth the extra 30 minutes. Surely Davidson can allot 15. Then I am sure to remember my graduation from college as more than a hurried ceremony. 

—m.m.