THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 Sports 10

Photo by Beth Pharr
Lance Kinerk tools rapidly by South Alabama opponent in last Saturday's win of 4-1.

Men's Soccer | Tom Koonce

Duke Goes Down, Cats Soccer 7-1

With about five minutes and forty seconds left in a tied Davidson soccer game against Duke, freshman John Sampers turned from about four or five yards outside of the goal and hit a shot between two defenders. The shot was good and it put us up 3-2. That score would stand, and Davidson would leave Durham with one of its biggest soccer victories ever.

Davidson not only beat Duke in number of goals scored, but they also outplayed the Blue Devils up and down the field. Coach Charlie Slagle said that the win: “Has to be the biggest victory, because we beat a big name team on the road.” Coach Slagle was very impressed with how the team played together. They outshot Duke 15-13 and had seven corner kicks to Duke’s one.

Davidson goals were scored by Sampers and Rob Ukrop. Sampers scored first and then Ukrop added another goal on a penalty kick to put Davidson up 2-0. Duke then stormed back, scoring two goals in a span of three minutes to tie the game at two all. Sampers then made his miraculous play to give the Wildcats the victory.

The victory over Duke is such a tremendous win for a number of reasons. Duke has a very strong nationally recognized soccer team that was ranked number fourteen in the nation last week, ranked ahead of the Cats in the South at the number five position. Such a win by a non-scholarship team over a team that hands out about eleven scholarships underlines the fact that this was a big victory.

Coach Slagle was very impressed with the huge turnout of Davidson fans. The crowd was extremely vocal and much louder than the Duke fans, despite the fact that Duke had the home field advantage.

The Davidson soccer team has now won six games in a row. Their record is 7-1. With the Davidson Invitational coming up this weekend, Davidson looks forward to keeping their winning streak alive. The Wildcats play Furman and the College of Charleston in the Invitational.

Football | Bruce Balestier

Football Making Gridiron History

In what Head Coach Dave Fagg characterized as perhaps the finest win of his coaching career, the rejuvenated Wildcats handed Johnson C. Smith a 17-7 setback before 1,800 frenzied fans at Richardson Field. A gutty defensive effort won the game for Davidson; four times the Wildcat defense stopped the Bulls on fourth down deep in Davidson territory.

Entering the game, Coach Fagg had feared the Bulls’ powerful and athletic offense, and Smith’s initial two possessions realized those fears. Led by all-CIAA quarterback Maurice Flowers, the Bulls’ first drive reached the Davidson 23-yard line with relative ease. But four downs later, when Alden Smith knocked away a Flowers pass, the drive stalled. Their second drive began at the Davidson 20 after a Mark Wainwright fumble. Seven subsequent plays brought them to the Davidson 3. But LB Martin McCann’s tackle of Smith RB Tyrone Corlew at the 1-yard line on fourth and goal kept the game scoreless.

Finally, with 4:47 left in the half, the Wildcat offense struck. Bryn Robinson punctuated a 58-yard drive with a 1-yard touchdown run. The 7-0 score stood until halftime. The Bulls...evened the score with 5:30 left in the third quarter on Bruce Gaillard’s 3-yard touchdown run, but the deadlock was short-lived. On the ensuing drive, the Wildcats marched methodically into Smith territory. Freshman kicker Drew Fassett’s 30-yard field goal gave the ‘Cats a 10-7 cushion. The Wildcat defense then came on to preserve the victory, and preserve it they did. Twice in the fourth quarter, it stopped the Bulls on downs deep in Davidson territory. When, with 2:26 left, DB Linsey Mills intercepted a Wesley Tate pass and sprinted 42 yards down the sideline to score, the game was effectively over. The 17-7 final was the ‘Cats' second straight win, and their longest winning streak since 1980.

Saturday’s matchup with Emory and Henry will be the first between the two schools, and Davidson’s first meeting with an Old Dominion Athletic Conference foe. The Wildcats should join the ODAC by 1992. The Wasps enter the game 2-0, with a 22-21 win over Washington and Lee and a 49-14 pasting of Bridgewater under their belts. Davidson (2-1), meanwhile, will look for its third straight victory. Emory and Henry is averaging 450 yards per game, led by senior running back Scotty Verran, who has rushed for 130 yards per game.

Volleyball Kicking Butt and Taking Names
By BRUCE BALESTIER

The trophy sits prominently on coach Rebecca Hawkins' desk, the first piece in Davidson volleyball’s trophy collection, a collection which could grow to be immense. Hawkins’ squad picked it up by winning the College of Charleston tournament last weekend. The Wildcats won five matches over two days to take the title. Davidson entered Wednesday night’s contest with UNC-Greensboro with a spotless 10-0 record. Their 1-0 mark in Big South play has them perched atop the conference standings.

As expected, junior co-captains Mimi Plauche and Holt Hathaway have carried much of the load for the young Wildcats. Both were named to the all-tournament teams at the Appalachian State and College of Charleston tournaments, and Hathaway was voted the MVP of the Charleston tournament. “I was a little worried entering the season with no seniors,” admitted Hawkins, “but at the same time I knew I had no reason to be. In terms of talent, maturity, and leadership, Mimi and Holt might as well be seniors.”

“Outstanding” freshman Amy Howard and “sparkplug” Christy Knight have contributed mightily for the ‘Cats, and the team’s depth has made it a “good tournament team.” With the conference season nearly in full stride, the Wildcats are, according to Hawkins, “taking it game by game.” The long-range goal for everyone is victory in the Big South conference tournament. The Wildcats lost Wednesday night to UNC-G, winning the first game, losing the next three. Their record is 10-1.

Photo by Chris Lee
Monique Dockter thrashes a completely helpless Roanoke College player. The ‘Cats annihilated Roanoke 7-0. Their record is 3-1.

Field Hockey
Larry Dagenhart

Hockey Defeats Wake and Roanoke, Falls to Duke

Last weekend, the Davidson field hockey team defeated Wake Forest 1-0 and Roanoke College 7-0, then lost to Duke 3-0 to remain 3-1. Friday’s win against the Deacons was the first time the Wildcats had ever beaten Wake. A pretty even first half resulted in a 0-0 halftime score. But two minutes into the second half, sophomore Jennifer Roos scored on a corner hit for Davidson with a shot that never touched the ground and went straight into the back of the net.

See HOCKEY Next Page