THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

15

Fagg

Continued from Page 13, Column 1

duty at tailback.

Fagg is “excited” about the imminent entry of Davidson into the Old Dominion Athletic Conference for football. Already, some ODAC opponents have been integrated into the schedule. Membership is expected by 1992. The ODAC includes Hampden-Sydney, Washington and Lee, and Guilford, among others.

So the pieces of the puzzle are nearly complete; a new coach, a solid group of players, and a new conference within two years. As coach Fagg says, now all that is left is “to work as hard as we can to make this the most successful Division III program possible.”

Support
The Wildcats

Loss

Continued from Page 13, Column 4

over the ‘Cats for more than 100 yards and a second-half touchdown. A Sewanee field goal made the final 17-9.

There were bright spots for the Wildcats, notably the punting and return games, the pass rush, and the play of quarterbacks Richard Howell and Mark Wainwright. But head coach Dave Fagg was not pleased with his team’s performance. “It’s hard to find positives,” he said. “We have a list of things in which we have to be successful for us to have a chance to win. We didn’t realize any of those objectives.”

The ‘Cats will attempt to rebound from the loss Saturday at Millsaps, which will be playing its season opener. Davidson defeated the Majors, 15-0, last year at Richardson Field. Coach Fagg has used this week to evaluate his quarterbacks and will have decided on a single starter for the game Saturday.

Collegiate

Banking

Saves you

When you
remember to.

Don't get wrecked. If you're not sober—or you're not sure—let someone else do the driving.
A message provided by this newspaper and Beer Drinkers of America

BEER DRINKERS
OF AMERICA
PARTY SMART
National Headquarters
150 Paularino Ave., Suite 190
Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

“Beer Drinkers of America is a non-profit consumer membership organization open only to persons over the age of 21."

At First Union, we know that college students need to make the most of their money. Which is why we make college life and any unexpected expenses. And there’s no annual fee for the first year!

banking with us as economical and convenient as possible with First Union's Collegiate Banking™ Express package.

Money Saving Extras.

Our Collegiate Banking Express package is available with optional money-saving extras including our Instant Cash Reserve option to avoid the bounced check blues and instant access at our 24 Hour Banking Machines.

It’s Your Choice.

Other banks may think that students only need one type of checking account. With Collegiate Banking Express, we give you a choice between our No Minimum Checking and No Organized Banking account. No matter which account you choose, you'll get a lot of service, without a lot of service fees.

Money From Home.

No more anxious waiting by the mailbox for that all-important check from home with our optional Fast Money™ service. Your parents can have money automatically transferred from their First Union checking account to yours at no charge. You'll know exactly when you have access to those funds to help you budget your money.

Service. We Guarantee It.®

No other bank in town offers students a package with this much value. To open your Collegiate Banking Express program, come by any First Union branch.

Call or stop by our branch and open your account today!

Main Branch —
112 South Main Street
892-8861

Member FDIC

©1990 First Union Corporation 90371s