THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1990

The Davidsonian

Founded in 1914

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor

JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

TRENT STEVENS, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor
HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor
PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager

BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager

Letters

The Wreckers of Autumn

Ah, the sounds of autumn beginning: flyers for the freshman senate flitting on doors, tow trucks towing, the crack of football helmets on Saturday morn, tow trucks towing, students scurrying in and out of the library like squirrels hiding nuts, tow trucks towing, students with wet hair rushing to class, tow trucks towing as summer ebbs away and we wonder: just how much money are the towing dudes at Texaco actually making this year?

But, the enforcement seems good for the campus. After all, illegal parking is probable cause for death in some countries. Davidson head-people are even thinking of adding an extra day to the calendar, which would create more hours to tow vehicles.

In the meantime, take some time to reflect on the fading summer. Sit yourself under a sugar maple and keep an eye out for one of the towing dudes at Texaco in his new red Lamborghini whirring down Main Street, waving at you and smiling, then rounding a corner, and flooring it down a side road to his new home on his new lake.

If you see him, wave back.

mp.

Window Dressers to the Rescue

To the Editor:

In light of the recent flap over printing student directories, the window dressers in College Relations thought we’d see if we could help out. We found that we can download student information from the PRIME, reformat it on our Mac and have it ready to copy in Central Services with a minimum of time and money. We’ve never done this before, nor been asked to but there is clearly a need for this service and we are glad to help meet that need.

In order to expedite matters and to keep the amount of paper used to a minimum, we will publish only student name, campus address and campus phone number. We may also use very small type to save space.

We will have it copied two sides, collated and stapled, then deliver one to each residence hall or apartment room and one to all faculty and staff. Those who wish to do so can make extra copies on their own after that.

This will be only an interim student directory. We will still publish the unabridged and unexpurgated college directory in October (the earliest we can pull all the information together and get it printed). If this works out we will continue this new service every year from here on out.

JERRY S. STOCKDALE
Director, College Relations
September 10, 1990

Jarred Baxter | Inside the SGA

Voting Privileges for International Students?

The prominent issue in the last two S.G.A. meetings has been whether or not the International Representative should be given voting privileges at S.G.A. meetings. Last week at the September 4th meeting, after consulting the By-Laws, Student Body President Doug Jobe informed the Senate that the international students would have to attain a charter from the school, thus becoming a social organization in order to gain the right to vote.

Independent Senator Prem Manjooran said a charter was the last thing the international students wanted since it would only encourage further social division and segregation. He did, however, hope that the Senate could reform the By-Laws to include a voting international representative.

First some background information.

Currently the international representative is chosen by the International Committee, a function of the College Union. The representative sits in on S.G.A. meetings and sends the committee a report. The position was created last year in an attempt to further integrate international students.

All international students are either independents or affiliated with an eating house and thus, theoretically, fully represented in the S.G.A. I have, however, spoken with several international students who felt that the current system did not fully represent their interests. They and I feel that the international community at Davidson has special needs which deserve specific representation.

Because all three independent senators are currently international students some would argue that the international community is, if anything, overrepresented. Independent senators, however, serve all independents, not just their own peer group.

The international community still lacks a specific voice, and I believe this should change.

International students face problems which no other students at Davidson must face. For example, a friend of mine from Nepal took A-level examinations in secondary school. These tests are unique to the British educational system and are prepared for throughout the last two years of the U.S. equivalent of high school.

I spent my junior year in England and prepared for A-levels in several subjects and also took some A.P. tests in high school and can vouch that A-levels are more difficult. Last year my friend spoke with the registrar about receiving credit for these courses and is still waiting to find an answer.

Issues like these make me think that the international students need a voting representative of their own.

The only way to achieve this without the formation of a new international student social organization is a reform of the By-Laws.

I believe this issue needs immediate S.G.A. attention. If you agree please speak with your S.G.A. representative, that’s what the S.G.A. is for.