Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXII THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1990 NUMBER 10

By TRENT STEVENS

Davidson alumnus Francis "Buddy" Kemp, former chairman of NCNB Texas, died at his Dallas residence last Friday of a brain
tumor. He was 50 years old.

A Reidsville native, Kemp graduated from Davidson with honors in history. One of those who knew Kemp during his studies
here was History professor Malcolm Lester. “I remember Kemp as a very serious and hard-working student with a very warm
and outgoing personality,” Lester said. “His death is a very great loss to Davidson and his community.”

Kemp went for a Harvard Business School degree after Davidson. He began his banking career at NCNB in 1967, where
executive Hugh McColl, NCNB’s current chairman, became his mentor. While there, Kemp turned around a division suffering from malaise, pushed
for affirmative action policies, and advocated family leave and child-care programs. He became chairman of NCNB Texas, which was formed
from the remnants of First RepublicBank Corporation, in 1988. He used his skills in strategy and organization in this position
until the illness led to his early retirement a year ago.

Praised by his friends for his warmth, energy, motivation, and intelligence, Kemp proved to be an asset to his many
other endeavors. In Charlotte, Kemp served as Spirit Square president, president of the Arts and Science Council, and chairman of
the Greater Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.

At his alma mater, Kemp served on the Board of Visitors and the Board of Trustees. In addition, Kemp served
as co-chairman of the annual fund of The Campaign for Davidson’s $150 million fund drive. “He was one of the
greatest people I’ve ever known,” exclaimed Gracia Slater, director of regional campaigns, who had worked with Kemp. “We all miss
him.”

“He was a great friend to everyone he worked with and that may be why he was so special,” explained
Pat Martin, director of the annual fund.

In addition to his banking, civic, and alumni activities, Kemp enjoyed the arts, reading, and oriental rugs, another area in
which he was considered an expert.

Kemp’s funeral was held at Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte on this past sunny Monday morning. President John Kuykendall
spoke at the funeral service. “It is inexplicable that this should happen to one so bright and able in the
midst of years,” Kuykendall eulogized. “It is lamentable that this good man has not lived to see the fulfillment of
so many of his good thoughts and good deeds. Yet to say that his life, or yours or mine, at
any point is ‘hopeless’ is to miss the point of life altogether. The basic message of the Christian faith quite
simply presumes the prospect of triumph through tragedy.”

Memorials may be made to Davidson’s Kemp Scholars program.

By LISA GERRARD

Col. Harry Summers, noted author and current military analyst for the Cable News Network, recently exposed the live-wire issue of
peace or war in the Persian Gulf in a talk sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program and the History department.
The choices that Congress and President Bush make as United Nations forces converge in the Gulf will help define the
leadership in the post-Cold War world, said Summers. “If this...”

---happened a year ago, we wouldn’t have been able to do anything about it, because Iraq would have crept under
the skirts of the Soviet Union. Now we’re on the edge of a new dirt and we “This will be
a precedent-setting incident that we’re going to live with for a long time.” Summers asks: Will the precedent be that
aggression pays and you can ride roughshod over your neighbors, or will this incident prove that the U.N. works?

A guest of the college last year, Summers returned to a warm Davidson welcome from a crowd composed primarily of
students, packed in the 900 Room. His story is intriguing: when he was fifteen years old, Summers lied to a
recruiter in order to join the army. He became a veteran of the Korean and Vietnam Wars. On Strategy, Summers’
critical analysis of the Vietnam War, has become an influential guide for military analysis and is required reading at many
military colleges. He views and analyzes with the questions: What are we trying to do, How are we going to
do it, and Who is going to command it?

Summers Concedes Oil As Major Reason For U.S. In Persian Gulf

“You need to be very clear about what you’re trying to do; that was one of the great failings of
Vietnam, but we’re doing that better now,” he said. “In Vietnam, the objective was never established and neither was the
value. With two sons and a daughter-in-law in active duty, like other parents I’m asking, Is our objective worth it?”

Summers thinks that President Bush’s actions have been in sync with his words—the president said that he would send in
enough forces to defend and sustain any attack. The situation looks good for the United States, Summers said, because Saddam
Hussein’s options are running out. Politically, economically, and psychologically, Iraq is weaker. We can wait Hussein out.

Davidson Students Stage Middle East Rally

By JOE MARIS

Davidson students stepped up to international issues November 15 during a special rally opposing President Bush’s proposed use of force
in Kuwait. Reflecting the growing fear in the United States caused by what many believe to be Bush’s use of
unsound foreign policy, the rally provided a place for students and teachers to speak out against war as well as
a chance to ask questions concerning the possible alternatives to war.

Davidson seniors Bob Hornsby and Molly Graver organized the event held at the College Union. Graver circulated a petition that
was later sent to President Bush with 150 signatures. The petition stated that the undersigned students, teachers, and Davidson community
citizens challenged Bush to reconsider his foreign policy, and for him to concentrate on diplomacy rather than aggression. The petition
also reminded Bush that only Congress could declare war and that one man shouldn’t be responsible for a war that
could affect millions of people.

Students attending the rally had a similar opportunity to address the United States government with the availability of form letters
designed to encourage their con

INSIDE

News
Student's car explodes in PAX parking lot. Page 2.

Campus Living
Movie Review: Reversal of Fortune. Page 7.

Opinions
An Interview with Alumni gives perspective on Middle East crisis. Page 5.

Sports
Men's basketball drops their first three games. Page 10.
