THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1990 Sports 13

Football

Wildcats on the prowl for a win

Photo Courtesy DAVIDSONIAN Sports Staff

Cats Persecute Methodist

By BRUCE BALESTIER

This one was never in doubt. The red-hot Wildcats manhandled an inchoate Methodist squad in every facet of the game and recorded a 49-7 triumph before 2,048 delighted Homecoming fans at Richardson Field Saturday.

Davidson raced to a 35-0 halftime cushion, overpowering the Monarchs with 288 yards of total offense, and spreading the wealth in scoring. Ralph Isernia, Brett Boretti, and Terry Hines each scored one first-half touchdown. Meanwhile, Methodist could manage just 23 yards of offense against the punishing Wildcat defense.

For the game, the ‘Cats average field position was the Methodist 45, and they had little trouble punching it into the end zone. They mounted 258 yards rushing, led by tailback Terry Hines. Hines collected 149 yards on 11 carries and found the end zone with scoring runs of 61, 28, and 4 yards. Through the air, Richard Howell and Mark Wainwright threw for 117 yards and a touchdown.

On defense, the ‘Cats thoroughly pounded the Monarchs into submission, recovering a fumble and intercepting 5 passes. Freshman linebacker Clay Hall led the way with two of those interceptions; sophomore John Sims came up with a blocked punt.

The ‘Cats enjoy a well-deserved week off and return to action Parent’s Weekend (October 27) against Guilford.

‘Cats Fall to Dickinson

By MATT JOHNES

Last Saturday in Dickinson, Pa., the Wildcats couldn’t get anything going on the ground. Dickinson’s J.P. Bernatavitz had no such problem. He gained 243 yards on 26 carries and scored two touchdowns to lead his team to a 38-16 win. Davidson rushers could only gain 34 yards on 27 attempts against a tough Dickinson run defense.

The bright spot for Davidson was the play of freshman quarterback Richard Howell, who threw for 250 yards and 2 touchdowns. But by the time those touchdowns came, it was too late. Before the third quarter was half over, Dickinson had a 35-0 lead.

The ‘Cats first got on the board at the 2:36 mark of the 3rd quarter, when Howell spearheaded a drive which ended in a 21-yard touchdown pass to Ralph Isernia. Isernia ran in the 2-point conversion to make the game 35-8. Dickinson added a 36-yard field goal in the fourth quarter for their final points of the day.

With less than 1 minute left in the game, Dickinson had a first and goal at the ‘Cats 2-yard line, but they fumbled. Alden Smith picked up the loose ball for a touchback, and Davidson set up at their own 20 for one last drive. Long passes to Terry Hines and Jebo Barnes brought the ‘Cats downfield to the Dickinson 6, where Howell found Dan Lamar for a touchdown with just a few seconds left to play. Howell ran in the conversion to make the final score 38-16.

Men's Tennis Off to Strong Fall Start

By ROBERT GRUBB

The men’s tennis team has carried last spring’s success into their fall season. The Wildcats have opened with three consecutive dual match victories and a strong performance at the Washington and Lee Invitational over fall break.

Led by returning singles players Albie Varosky and David Jespersen, the ‘Cats performed well against a tough field that included James Madison, one of the best teams in the South. Both won their first-round matches before bowing out to James Madison’s top two senior players, Stephen Secord and Marc Brix.

Coach Jeff Frank, while pleased with the team’s performance in singles, was concerned with its lackluster doubles play. Davidson’s number one tandem of Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer lost in the first round of the first flight doubles to James Madison’s Dave Swartz and Sean White. Varosky and Dale Voeks, competing at third doubles, managed to win their first-round match before stumbling to defeat at the hands of a James Madison team.

The Wildcats opened their season September 28 with a home match against an overmatched Wingate squad. Frank started a lineup comprised solely of freshmen, and the youths responded to the challenge with an 11-1 triumph. Frank was especially pleased.with the play of Russell Briggs and Ryan Harper, who played at numbers one and three, respectively. “Eythan Sontag also played a good match in both singles and doubles,” commented Frank. The entire team followed the lead of the freshmen in their October 4 match at Radford. Led by a veteran lineup in the first six singles positions, the Wildcats defeated Radford 15-1. Zabell recovered from a shaky second set to pull out a 6-2, 2-6, 6-0 victory. The team’s performance over fall break endowed Frank with optimism. “Radford finished third in the Big South last year, so this is an indicator of how we might fare in the conference,” said Frank. Frank is using the fall season to find solid doubles pairings, and improved doubles play is clearly a goal. “With all the freshmen, we have more good doubles players than ever, which is good, but it makes it harder to find the right combinations,” Frank remarked. This fall has also marked the beginning of a new workout regimen, which includes weight training and running. “Coach is working us harder than in the past, but it paid off in the Washington and Lee Tournament,” said Beyer. “We didn’t lose any matches due to fatigue.” The stronger, tougher Wildcats will hit the road this weekend to challenge UNC-Asheville and Western Carolina in dual matches. They will also battle the elements this weekend; a lack of funds will force them to camp out at Camp Carolina in order to save funds. Explained Frank, “The home and away conference series and the conference tournament are added expenses to our budget, which we don’t have the money to cover this year.”

Women's Soccer

Women's Soccer Shows Improvement, Resiliency
By WALTER WRAY

In heavy rain last Wednesday, the Wildcats suffered the most painful defeat of a difficult season when they fell 3-0 to Presbyterian. It was a stunning defeat in light of the fact that Davidson thumped Presbyterian 9-0 just last year. The team’s uninspired play left coach Diane Boettcher angry. But it was a study in contrast Sunday when the ‘Cats rebounded to defeat Coker College 2-1. The Wildcats dominated the first 60 minutes of play, with Anne Wampler and Liz McLaughlin consistently moving the ball into the Coker penalty area. Liz Clarke and Sarah Taylor directed the transitional offensives that resulted in goals by Sarah Way and Ann Todd. Also providing power up front were Maria Tucker and Lindsey Forsythe. The ‘Cats tired during the final 15 minutes of the contest, but managed to maintain their edge and posted their second victory of the season. The team returns to action Saturday at 10 am when they host the Commodores of Vanderbilt as part of the Davidson Invitational.

Bruce Balestier

On the Sports front

Five professional tennis players, Jay Berger, Richey Reneberg, Darren Cahill, Amos Mansdorf, and Kevin Curren, were recently banned from playing in the Stockholm Open tournament in Sweden because they played competitively in South Africa during the past year. In addition, the players have been placed on a United Nations blacklist of athletes who have competed there since September 1, 1989, a blacklist endorsed by the International Olympic Committee. In my opinion, this is yet another instance of the improper intrusion of politics into sports. Tennis players are athletes, entertainers, working men who make their living playing tennis tournaments. If a tournament is to be staged, it ought to be their right to play in it, free from retribution, no matter where it is. There ought not be a political statement involved. Why is it that when athletes and other entertainers entertain people in the Soviet Union, it is considered a humanitarian endeavor, but not a political endorsement? But when tennis players compete in South Africa, exercising their given right to earn a living and entertain, they somehow wittingly give support to the system of apartheid. The point, it seems to me, is that the system of government in the country where a sporting event is being held ought not be an issue. Politics is the domain of politicians. Let tennis players play where they want, without the interference of the U.N. and the I.O.C. Their interference here is as wrong and ridiculous as the Olympic boycotts of 1980 and 1984. The Stockholm Open should stick to putting on tennis tournaments.