THE DAVIDSONIAN

Environmental
Trash Clean-up

By MARCY WHITE

Are you the kind of person who feels guilty when you drive down I-77, wondering what happens to all the trash on the side of the road? Do you envision a group of imaginary creatures that snap their fingers and take away all of the waste?

Actually, these fairies do exist, but in the forms of human beings. These creatures participate in North Carolina’s Adopt A Highway Program, a program that is based upon organizations or groups that “adopt” two miles along state-maintained roadway.

These groups pledge to pick up litter at least four times a year. According to the North Carolina Department of Transportation, “the program is designed to improve the quality of North Carolina’s environment by removing litter and by increasing public awareness of the need to dispose of trash responsibly.”

Last year Davidson College became involved with this project when Davidson College’s Environmental Action Committee pledged to support three miles on I-77 between Sunset Boulevard (exit 16) and Reames Road (exit 18).

The group sponsored one clean-up last spring. Unfortunately, the turnout was not as high as expected. However, the group removed accumulations of trash along the roadside that attract litter.

It also reminded students that littering does not provide jobs for sanitation workers; rather, it creates the need for volunteers to clean up the environment.

This year, the Environmental Action Committee is sponsoring another clean-up on Sunday, September 23 from 12 to 5.

The group will have support from every fraternity and eating house on the court, as every organization plans to have members there for thirty-minute shifts.

DEA has also sent flyers to faculty in hopes that they will engage in Sunday’s activities.

Transportation will be provided through the Union. Vans will be located between the Union and the biology building.

Participants should follow these suggestions:

--wear bright clothing that covers arms and legs

--Stay at least 5 feet from the pavement edge

--discontinue work in inclement weather

--watch footing

--be alert for snakes, stinging insects, and poisonous plants

At 5:00 pm, there will be free Domino’s pizza and cokes for all participants.

Interested students should contact Susan Majors at -6638.

Spanish Club Formed

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

The Carolina Inn, home of the Dean Rusk Program and the Center for Special Studies, is now the meeting site of the newly-formed Spanish Club.

Rafael Sanchez-Aballi ’91 and brother Armando Sanchez-Aballi ’92, founders of the Club, have directed their energies toward soliciting participation and support of the club from the student body.

Their efforts have proved successful. Officers have been elected; significant numbers of students have attended the meetings, and the club is in the process of becoming chartered with the SGA.

The club’s primary objective aligns itself with its statement of purpose: “to create an informal, non-academic social club for Spanish-speakers.”

The organization is directed by students, and business is conducted in both Spanish and English.

Any individual with an interest in the language or culture may participate.

According to Sanchez-Aballi, a number of students had conferred with him regarding the possibility of a Spanish-speaking organization where members could share their experiences with the language and culture.

Some students felt a need to follow up on their semesters abroad in Mexico or Spain, and they wanted an opportunity to practice conversational Spanish in a non-academic setting.

“An unprecedented number of Spanish-speaking students admitted this year, coupled with the enthusiasm of a number of returning students provided the impetus for us to establish the club,” said Sanchez-Aballi.

Two issues currently being addressed by the club are the chartering of the organization with the SGA and the staging of a cultural event during the fall and spring semesters.

“Becoming chartered insures us of funds to stage our events. It also establishes the club as a permanent organization of the College,” said Sanchez-Aballi. Interested in sharing its culture with the college community, the Spanish Club intends to either produce a short play or hold a dance.

The Spanish Club meets again on Monday, September 24 at the Carolina Inn at 8 P.M., and will hold its meetings on every other Monday at the same location.

Editor's Note:
The Editors wish to apologize to the brothers Sanchez-Aballi for neglecting to print this article last week. Siento.

Photo by Chris Lee
With the help of a groundskeeper and two football players, Chris Leach holds his 11-foot python, Caesar.

This Weekend
DAVIDSON SOCCER

Hosts the Davidson Invitational
SATURDAY

Southern Connecticut
#2 in Nation - Div II
Davidson
#7 in South - Div I

1:30 College of Charleston
#9 in South - Div I
3:30 Furman
#11 in South - Div I

SUNDAY

Southern Connecticut
Davidson

1:30 Furman
3:30 College of Charleston

WEDNESDAY SEPT 26th
DOUBLEHEADER vs. UNC-Greensboro

3:00 Women - UNC-G #4 in Nation Div II
5:00 Men - UNC-G #1 in Nation Div II

COME OUT AND HELP
DAVIDSON'S HOME FIELD ADVANTAGE!!

BE THERE AND BE LOUD!

Editors Puckett and Chaudhuri regret to inform that there will be no crossword puzzle this week. Also, there will be no solution to last week's puzzle, as we have lost it on purpose.