THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990

Sports 14

Field Hockey
Cats Take Deep South Title
By LARRY DAGENHART

Five years of hard work finally paid off for coach Betsy Pryor and the Davidson field hockey team when it took care of Pfeiffer College and beat Wake Forest University twice (by scores of 1-0 and 5-1) to capture the Deep South Tournament championship for the first time ever. The tournament win was certainly not the team’s only record-setting performance. Davidson finished its season with its finest record to date (14-1-2), scored more goals than it ever had before (52), and sent 11 players to all-Deep South tournament teams which will compete this weekend at the Southeast Regional.

The Wildcats went into the tournament a deserved number one seed after defeating each team in the Deep South division over the course of the regular season. After a first-round bye, the Cats advanced to the second round to face Pfeiffer. The Cats overcame jitters at the outset and managed to get first-half goals from Gigi Cooke and Simone Plaisance. The second half saw Davidson totally dominate; scores from Jennifer Roos and Lauren Follmer spurred the Wildcats to a 4-0 victory.

Saturday’s semifinal match against Wake Forest was a game of momentum shifts, and it seemed that whoever had that momentum at the end would win. According to coach Pryor, the game was played “inside the 25's.” “We (also) didn’t play our game,” added the coach. “We didn’t go to the ball and looked tired.” Statistically, the match was one of the Cats' closer ones as they were outshot on goal 14-17. Still, it was impressive to beat an ACC team with a subpar performance.

Because the Deep South Tournament is a double-elimination affair, the Wildcats were forced to play Wake Forest again for the championship, and the second go-round was not even close. Davidson put the game away early by taking a 3-0 halftime lead with scores from Monique Dockter, Simone Plaisance, and Jenny Plowright. By the middle of the second half, with the score 3-1, the Deacons had regained some momentum and made things a little tense. But Erin Lang put a nail in Wake’s coffin by scooping up the ball and thrusting it just under the crossbar and over the goalie’s head, a shot virtually impossible to save. Ten minutes later, Jacqueline Ukrop decided the final outcome by scoring uncontested to make it 5-1.

“Wake didn’t play its usual aggressive game and looked flat,” commented coach Pryor. “We forced them into it because we were in control of the game,” she added. Credit is also due to the team for coming together in close situations, as well as overcoming the injuries of Suzanne Hardesty and Gigi Cooke, both of whom went out midway through the championship game. Coach Pryor commended the entire team, whether on the field or on the bench, for the “total team effort”; it was everyone’s utmost positive attitude that helped them achieve this success.

NOTES: Deep South Tournament first team selections were: Mary Russ, Beth Pharr, Simone Plaisance, Suzanne Hardesty, and Emily Coleman. Players composing the second team: Francesca Fiero, Jennifer Roos, Jenny Plowright, Monique Dockter, Erin Lang. The Deep South third team included Lauren Follmer. These players will play on their respective all-star teams in the Southeast Tournament at Catawba College in Salisbury. From there, players can be selected to compete in the National Hockey Festival which takes place in Coco, Fla. over Thanksgiving.

Men's Soccer
NCAA Slights Wildcat Soccer
By ALAN ROSSELOT

The men’s soccer team came up short of fulfilling hopes for a conference championship in its first year in the Big South Monday afternoon, falling 2-0 to Coastal Carolina. After rolling over Campbell 5-2 in the semifinals Saturday, the Wildcats came in flying high against Coastal, the two-time defending champs. Unfortunately, the Cats could not cap their excellent season with a win.

The loss brought to an end an excellent season during which the Wildcats were ranked in the national Top 20. In the final regular-season poll, Davidson received votes for the Top 20; they were the only team to do so that did not receive a berth in the 28-team NCAA Tournament. The Cats finished ranked 5th in the South and defeated South Carolina and Richmond, both of which received Tournament bids.

Much of their success can be attributed to the veteran play of seniors Ross Saldarini, Peter Cobb, and Scott Zucker. As junior Rob Ukrop put it, these three players were crucial to the team in terms of leadership and motivation. Coastal managed to score a goal in each half while limiting the opportunities of the Cats' potent scorers. The Chanticleers played a rough, aggressive defense that often double-teamed Davidson’s leading scorer Rob Ukrop. Ukrop, who scored 22 goals and 14 assists during the season, finished among the top ten.scorers in the nation. Ukrop was not the only Wildcat to feel the physical play of Coastal’s defenders, as they pressured the ball all over the field, forcing the ‘Cats into errors on several occasions. “A lot of the credit goes to them,” commented coach Charlie Slagle. “They played a super game and did the things they had to do to win.” After controlling the first twenty minutes of the game, the ‘Cats fell behind 1-0 when Davor Seric scored for the Chanticleers. Coastal’s second goal came on a breakaway nine minutes into the second half. Eric Schmitt barely squeaked the ball past a diving Scott Zucker for the score. 

Rob Ukrop, Peter Cobb, and Lance Long all were named to the All-tournament team. Davidson finished the season at 15-7-2, and their successful campaign was highlighted by wins over traditional powers Richmond, Duke, and South Carolina. The team will lose just three players, Saldarini, Cobb, and Zucker, to graduation. With a solid core of returning players, Slagle is understandably optimistic about the future. “Now we know what it feels like and what it takes,” said Slagle. Not wasting any time, the team will rest only a short time before beginning preparations for next season.

Volleyball Airborne Cats score big! 
Photo by Davidsonian Sports Staff

New Team Shatters Old Records
By BRUCE BALESTIER

The Wildcats’ three-game triumph over Augusta two weeks ago created a pair of new high-water marks for the program. The win was their 14th in a row, breaking the record of 13 consecutive wins set by the 1988 team. Their win total of 27 extended by one the record of 26 wins set by the 1988 squad. With two wins last week, the ‘Cats moved to 29-5 and set a record for most wins ever by a Davidson team. Coach Rebecca Hawkins allowed that “it feels great to get the record,” but expressed concern about the team’s continued motivation. Her fears were justified Tuesday in a 15-9, 15-6, 10-15, 15-3 loss to UNC-Greensboro, the Wildcats’ second loss of the year to the Spartans. Hawkins admitted that she considers UNC-G a “markedly better” team, but was “bothered by the fact that we didn’t play well against a very good team.” The ‘Cats’ lackluster performance left Hawkins concerned about the possibility of burnout. She insists that her team must “cut down on errors” if they hope to come away with the Big South Conference Tournament Championship this weekend at Baptist College in Charleston, S.C.

The ‘Cats closed out their regular season last week with a disappointing loss to East Carolina. Hawkins stated that her squad’s “inconsistent level of play was the difference” in the loss to the Bucs, but felt that it served to put a scare into them. Said Hawkins, “We know we’re good enough to win the conference, but we’ve got to stay focused.” Davidson is seeded second in this weekend’s Big South Tournament and meets seventh-seeded Campbell in the first round Friday afternoon. The Wildcats have already defeated the Camels three times this season.

Men's Basketball
Cats Fall To Marathon
By BRUCE BALESTIER

Davidson head coach Bob McKillop unveiled his youth movement in Saturday night’s 114-92 setback at the hands of the touring exhibition team from Marathon Oil. Starting a quintet featuring a junior (Paul Denmond), two sophomores (J.D. Heuer and Detlef Musch), and two freshmen (Pat Holloway and James Marsh), the Wildcats turned in an inconsistent performance in losing to the powerful Oilers. The ‘Cats seemed out of sync offensively throughout most of the contest and simply could not stop Marathon’s hot shooting collection of former major college players. A 57-42 Marathon lead at halftime snowballed into a more than thirty-point cushion before the Wildcats regained consciousness and mounted a late rally to shave the deficit.

Davidson did receive an excellent contribution from their much-improved frontcourt. Heuer contributed 15 points and 11 rebounds at the big forward spot, and the 7’0" Musch chipped in with 14 points. Juco transfer Jeff Chapin threw in 14 points, including two three-point goals, in a superb stint off the bench, and continued to impress with his deadly outside shot. At the point guard spot, a trio of players shared time. Freshmen Holloway and Jason Zimmerman and junior Paul Denmond (who spent most of his time at shooting guard) combined for 26 points and 10 assists. The Wildcats return to action Saturday night with an exhibition game at Belk Arena against the Swedish National Team.