**The Davidsonian**

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXII THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990 NUMBER 6

Davidson to Honor Martin Family's Service to College

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

The Martin family, which has been associated with Davidson College for more than 60 years, will be honored next weekend in two dedication ceremonies on campus.

At 5:30 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 26, college officials and Martin family members and friends will dedicate the D. Grier Martin Court, a group of three new student apartment buildings housing 150 students, in memory of this late Davidson president. The permanent memorial on site will be a thirty-by-six foot brick and limestone monument with two embedded benches and two commemorative plaques. One will give the dates of Martin’s presidency--1958 to 1968--while the other will be engraved with a tribute to him: “Humane, winsome, generous, he employed his considerable talents with modesty--inspiring others to exercise theirs.”

At 9:30 a.m. on Saturday, Oct. 27, the same parties will gather to christen the Louise McMichael Garden, a 50-by-115 foot area beside the president’s home. A small brick patio with benches centered around a birdbath will highlight the garden. A commemorative plaque will also be located there, engraved with the tribute: “Recognizing her spirited devotion to this college and community and her gracious leadership in restoring this historic President’s House, her home from 1958 to 1968.”

The public is invited to attend the ceremonies and receptions which will follow each event. D.G. Martin Jr., son of D. Grier and Louise McMichael Martin, will speak at Davidson’s Fall Convocation, which begins at 10:30 a.m. on Saturday in Love Auditorium of Chambers Building. D.G. Martin Jr., a 1962 Davidson alumnus and current secretary of the University of North Carolina, has two children now enrolled at Davidson--Grier (’91) and May (’93).

It will be Parent’s Weekend at Davidson, and the Convocation will also be highlighted by the presentation of student awards.

D. Grier Martin (1911-1974) graduated “cum laude” from Davidson in 1932. He worked as alumni secretary from 1933-1938, then left for a business career. He returned as treasurer and business manager of the college from 1951 to 1958, when he was elected president by the Board of Trustees. During his presidency the college grew dramatically, racial integration was effected and a new curriculum was adopted. His success at fundraising laid the foundations for the Dana Science Building, Richardson Residence Hall and Patterson Court.

The ceremony in his honor will be held at the entrance to the new student apartments on the campus drive just off Patterson Court. It will include an introduction by current President John Kuykendall, remarks by President Emeritus Samuel Spencer Jr. and a response for the Martin family from the late president’s widow, Louise McMichael Martin.

Louise McMichael Martin still lives in Davidson. During her husband’s presidency, she served as planner, decorator, steward and gracious hostess for the president’s house. She met D. Grier Martin just after his Davidson graduation, when she was on her way to New York to take up an acting career. When Martin was elected president, she helped save the old president’s home, which was scheduled to be razed, and oversaw its restoration and decoration.

For more information on the dedication ceremonies or Fall Convocation, contact the college union at x2140.

Poet Sanchez Evokes Emotion

By KIERNAN SLATER

A standing ovation completed the eleventh hour presentation on Thursday, Oct. 18. This enthusiastic response was directed towards Sonia Sanchez in praise of her dramatic poetry reading and sharing of her personal philosophy. Sanchez’s wide-spread appeal excludesher from the limiting title of Afro-American feminist poet. She supports the equality and mutual respect among people. Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia said, “I was touched by the universality and even more the spirituality [of Sanchez.” Following the eleventh-hour presentation, Sanchez attended a luncheon at the Black Student Coalition house. The BSC honored Sanchez with a key-shaped plaque symbolizing her continuing welcome to the BSC house and Davidson College. The students gathered after lunch for an informal talk with Sanchez during which, according to BSC president Lindsey Mills, “many emotions were expressed.” Mills found Sanchez to be a “diversified poet, expressing an oppressed, African-American and feminist point-of-view.” Sanchez concluded her day in Dr. David Long’s southern literature class. She discussed with the students many of the works they have read this semester, specifically Zora Neale Hurston’s, Their Eyes Were Watching God. Dr. Long found Sanchez very effective saying, “She found a perspective, especially on racism, that I couldn’t stress in a class studying the juxtaposition of black and white literature.” As was the popular response Continued on Page 4

Photo By Holt Hathaway

Sophomore Laura Cunningham enlists another student to participate in Alcohol Awareness Week.

Week Focuses on Alcohol at Davidson
By JENNY SCARBOROUGH

Davidson took part in its first Alcohol Awareness Week in a variety of ways, including non-alcoholic court parties, lectures, films, and pledges from students and staff to avoid consuming alcohol for a week. The activities were coordinated by the Chaplain’s Committee and the Residence Life Office, who said the goal for the week was not to make judgments concerning alcohol consumption on campus, but to promote responsible decision-making with alcohol. Director of Residence Life Richard Terry said Davidson’s decision to have an awareness week coincides with the discussion surrounding the new Patterson Court alcohol policy. Activities this Friday include Jazz Band “Dry” in the 900 Room, Continued on Page 4

Collins Plans for Court Renovations
By CHRIS HOVELAND and WALTER PRICE

Besides the usual excitement on Patterson Court, the anticipation of house renovations has stirred up members of the eating houses and fraternities. On October 15, Physical Plant Superintendent Bob Collins met with house representatives to discuss plans for house restorations. The college agreed to the house renovations on the advice of Collins who told The Davidsonian that the college should either “fix ‘em up or shut ‘em down.” The condition of the houses has deteriorated over the last fifteen years due to the lack of maintenance and the inability of the houses themselves to meet the changing needs of their members. The financing for this project is provided by the Student Life Reserve Account. Although the condition of each house will affect the amount of funding, Collins has allotted “in the neighborhood of $35-40,000 per house.” In addition, houses will be expected to use their own funds for extra alterations. A student committee was formed by Collins to determine the needs of the houses. The committee and Collins worked together to lay out a general floor plan which included changes in apartment and storage space. The plans for renovations for all houses include attic fans, fluorescent lighting, power outlets for bands, additional entrances from porches and base- Continued on Page 4

INSIDE

News
Campus crime and Davidson feature. Page 2.
Foundations, bank award Davidson money for scholarship. Page 3.

Opinions
David Scott reexamines student towing. Page 6.

Campus Living
Faculty profile: Dr. McMillen. Page 11.

Sports
Women's volleyball goes 26-3. Page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036