Wednesday, March 28, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN 7

“just in a house of evil of Nic Salth, never see them again.”

Davidson

Religion and war confuse the Arab-Israeli conflict

By RAMI EL AMINE

Prior to Spring Break, Fuad Bahnan, a Presbyterian minister born in Jerusalem, spoke at Davidson about the “misconceived” Arab-Israeli conflict. According to Bahnan, “Christians have too often allowed the problems in Palestine to be overlooked because of the involvement of Muslims.” He went on to stress that “The question of justice and human dignity is the paramount issue... as Christians we need a new perspective.”

Beginning with a theological view of the dilemma, Bahnan went on to shed light on these points: history, violence, concern, and finally, a solution.

Theologically speaking, Bahnan said, “the kingdom of God does not involve a political institution,” referring to Abraham’s promise to the Jews that the kingdom of God was theirs and that they would be led once again to their homeland. Bahnan continued, “even though the Jewish people were promised a homeland, it was done so by an all-inclusive, not exclusive God... so how is it that the Palestinians have been excluded?”

Bahnan reiterated the need to regain a historical perspective “in order to undo the stereotype images and myths which have been woven into the fabric” further clouding the present situation. History takes us back to World War I when the British made an agreement with Sharif Hussein, a spokesman for the Arab people who were, at that time, under the rule of the Turks, to rebel against them and in return the British would grant them sovereignty. At the same time, the British made a secret treaty, the Sykes-Picot Treaty, with France. Under it, the British and French agreed to partition Arab possessions between them upon the defeat of the Turks.

In 1917, the Balfour Declaration gave Jews the right to emigrate to the Holy Lands as long as they did not exceed set quotas, and more importantly, as long as it did “not jeopardize the rights of the non-Jewish community in Palestine and the world at large,” said Bahnan. At that time there were Jews without political inclinations, said Bahnan. By 1947 there were 700,000 fully armed and trained Jews whose main purpose was political. In 1948 the Palestinian Arab State never came into existence and the Palestinian people went into diaspora. Bahnan ended by saying, “Now there are four and a half million Palestinians in the world... no homeland... and no identity.”

Concerning Islam, Bahnan said “You can never understand the psyche of the people unless you understand Islam.” Bahnan discussed the five pillars of Islam in a way understandable to Christians. He compared the first pillar, which is the declaration of the faith, to the Nicene Creed. Then he challenged any Christian to uphold the second pillar which is prayer five times a day, beginning at sunrise. A pilgrimage to the Kaaba in the holy city of Mecca is the third pillar.

Viruses can be prevented

By MARC OVERCASH

Although humanity cannot cure the common cold, she can technologize it. If the illness is not serious, the humans sniffle while the computer coughs “Vote for Dukakis” on the screen. If the sickness grows worse, chills and fevers attack the human body while mock files start replacing (effectively erasing) the information on the computer's hard drive. Viruses in humans and computers waste your time and make your life miserable.

In a computer, a virus is basically a self-reproducing program (it is contagious) that implants a specific symptom designed by a programmer. Although the intention of this symptom may be harmless, all viruses use memory and often implement unintended side-effects, ranging from stalling print jobs to crashing the system, and all computers are susceptible to some form of viruses.

In most cases, viruses originate and spread through the copying of public domain soft-ware or the unauthorized reproduction of copyright programs. Once the virus infects a computer, any disk not write-protected which is inserted in the contaminated machine may contract the virus. Therefore, in public access labs, like the Computer Center, one infected disk can spread the virus to every disk used in the contaminated computer and every computer using the contaminated disk. The only CSC computers that have been infected with a virus are the Macintoshes. Students are advised to have a student assistant check their disks for viruses if they have used a Mac in the past month. The virus is not serious and will not erase your documents, but it does damage program files. To read about protecting one’s computer from viruses, students should pick up a copy of anti-virus programs from the Computer Center. They are public domain and free of infections. Although at Davidson the viruses have been limited to Macintoshes, the Computer Center has anti-virus programs for IBM users. These programs will not correct all viruses since viruses mutate and new ones pop up frequently. However, they will correct all known viruses (as of February 1990). Students should also be wary of public domain software by checking them with the anti-virus programs. Duplicating copyright software is illegal. Finally, keep all master diskettes write-protected; this precaution will ensure backups in case your current programs become infected and fail.

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

The Davidson-Cornelius Day Care fundraising effort culminated on Saturday, March 24 with a party at Vail Commons. Participants danced and watched assistant professor Alex Pinkston’s Acting II class perform. In addition, prizes were awarded to raffle ticket winners. As of press time, the total amount raised in the effort had not yet been tallied. Prizes included: an etching by Herb Jackson for Suzanne Truesdell; shag lessons and beach house for Patty King; a Ron Chapple portrait for Cliff Elder; and free admittance to a soccer clinic for Grier Bradford.

Bahnan reminded the audience that it was Abraham, believed to be the first of the line of Muslim Prophets extending through Jesus and ending with Mohammed, who built the Kaaba and, therefore, he should not be reserved exclusively to the Judeo-Christian tradition. Fasting for the entire holy month of Ramadan is the fourth pillar. Bahnan pointed out that fasting did not simply entail giving up one’s greatest desire, but not eating or drinking (or smoking) from dusk to dawn. The fifth pillar is the giving of alms from a percentage of one’s income. A final point Bahnan made concerning Islam was to clear up the myths associated with Islamic jihad, or holy war. “To Muslims,” said Bahnan, “all wars are holy since there is no separation between Church and State.” War is divided into small and larger wars. The small war takes place outside of persons. The larger, on the other hand, is within; it is a battle which involves faith. To clear up any remaining doubts about the concept of holy war, Bahnan quotes from the Koran (holy scriptures as revealed to Mohammed by the Angel Gabriel): “Do not carry arms, for God does not like aggressors.” Concerning violence and terrorism, Bahnan told the audience, “The American press has done a great job of reporting when, how, where, and what when terrorist acts occur, but they never report why.” Terrorism is “a symptom of a deeper ailment... it is the cry of the powerless against the powerful,” he stated. Consequently, he continued, there are only 2,000 Christians left in the Holy Lands but in 1947 the figure was much larger. “How do we speak about love to our Jewish friends?” With the wounds of the Holocaust not yet healed, the Jewish people still feel threatened and insecure, Bahnan conceded. That is why we have to reach out to them with love because in their years of persecution they have become persecutors.