14 THE DAVIDSONIAN - SPORTS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

Men's Cross-Country

X-Country Setting the Pace

By PETER HURTADO

In head-to-head competition with the best harriers in North Carolina on a mud-slick, hilly course, the men’s cross-country team once
again displayed its trademark: depth, placing 5th of 8 teams at the North Carolina Intercollegiate State Meet this past Saturday
in Brevard. The men overcame these slow and sloppy conditions to improve on last year’s 6th place finish. The Wildcats’
depth was evident as their top four runners were separated by only 40 seconds. Davidson’s top finisher, Chris Otrok (22nd,
29:02) was followed closely by Ian Stewart (23rd, 29:04); this frontrunning typifies the depth of this year’s squad. Only 17
seconds behind was Ted Richardson (32nd, 29:21), who has demonstrated consistent improvement this season. Davidson’s further success rests on the
continued improvement of these three leading runners, in addition to the return of David Kerns from recent illness. Following Richardson
was Pete Hurtado (38th, 29:42) and Cam Dauler (47th, 30:25), both of whom have improved steadily. Davidson’s top seven was
rounded out by Dave Kerns (53rd) and Shelton Bellew (54th). Richard Wharton (64th) was close behind, and Greg Fisher also
ran well for Davidson. The men’s squad is optimistic about the Big South Conference Meet in two weeks. After finishing
next to the top runners in the state and overcoming adverse conditions, the men are prepared for a determined effort
against the best of the Big South. Their potential for improvement seems unlimited, and Coach Gary Andrew has designed this
year’s training so that his runners will peak at the Conference Meet. This coming Saturday is your last chance to
see the Davidson cross-country team in action. The women race 2 miles at 12:00 noon, and the men’s race (5k)
follows at 12:20. Come out to the field-hockey field and support your harriers in this “tune-up” for the Conference meet.

Women's Cross-Country

Uphill and Far Ahead

By PETER HURTADO

The women’s cross-country team overcame a hilly and sloppy course to prove that they can compete with the best runners
in North Carolina. The Wildcats ran hard and placed 4th in the NC Intercollegiate State Meet last Saturday at Brevard
College, improving on last year’s 7th place finish and finishing only 6 points behind 3rd place Duke. Despite the absence
of senior co-captain Katie Reynolds, the women placed 2 runners within the top ten, and their next three runners finished
within a space of 1:19. Kathy Beach (7th, 20:22) and Karen Marshall (10th, 20:42) once again led the way for
Davidson, running with the best collegiate runners in North Carolina. Both women were named Athletes of the Week for their
outstanding performances in the state meet. Heather Tarpley had another strong race, placing 29th in 22:06 on the slow, muddy
course. The deep top five was anchored by Jean DeMoss (40th, 23:09) and senior Laurie Reams (44th, 23:25). Lisa Sitek
rounded out Davidson’s squad in 50th place (24:33). The team received great performances from each runner, and competed well against
much larger schools. The steady improvement of all seven women, as well as the expected return of freshman Amy Bertram
from early injury, is a source of optimism for coach Gary Andrew as the Conference Meet nears. Never before has
the women’s team possessed such a depth of impact freshmen. Davidson hosts the Davidson Invitational this Saturday at 12:00 noon,
as they gear up for the Big South Conference Meet.

Home With Baseball's Cooke

First-year baseball Coach Dick Cooke describes himself as an optimistic man who is pleased with his job and hopeful for
the future of Davidson baseball. Coach Cooke has a long history in baseball, having played college ball at the University
of Richmond and pro ball with the Boston Red Sox, and most recently, having been the head coach of a
fledgling baseball program at Belmont Abbey College. Cooke is happy where he is now, having known since college that he
would eventually become a college baseball coach. He says that he simply loves to see kids grow.from the experiences of
intercollegiate athletics. Cooke’s feelings about Davidson closely parallel those of the student body and faculty. He knows that academics here
will always come first, and he is glad of this. Because of this tradition, he doesn’t feel the pressure to
win that he might feel at a major state university, and he is therefore able to concentrate more fully on
his number-one objective, developing a quality student-athlete. As for the future success of Davidson College Baseball, Cooke is optimistic because,
as he says, his players are optimistic. He and they are all motivated, looking forward already to the post-season conference
tournament. Even though DC baseball lost some highly talented players last year, Coach Cooke is confident about the team’s ability
to pick up where they left off last season and follow in the footsteps of last year’s winning team. When
asked what impressed him most about this year’s baseball team, Cooke responded, “the kids, the intelligence of the kids, their
maturity, the work ethic.”

Columbia Scholastic Press Association Has Awarded The Davidsonian Second Place in Its Annual Critique for Spring 1990. Thank You. Editors
Puckett and Chaudhuri

Steve Canyon

Must We Exhibit?

Now that the football team has four wins under its belt, isn’t it about time that the coaches dropped the
Baptist game from the schedule? You know the one I’m talking about. It’s the game at the very bottom of
the schedule that has an asterisk beside it indicating that it is an exhibition game. Most teams play exhibition games
prior to the season to get a feel for what players can do, what plays will work, and how the
team will perform. Apparently, the logic of this is lost on our coaching staff. Don’t get me wrong. I think
the coaches have done a fantastic job this season and they deserve all the credit in the world for having
done it, but where is the logic in playing a game that doesn’t count in the standings, that doesn’t count
toward anybody’s statistics, and where the best thing that can possibly come out of the game is that nobody gets
hurt?

Perhaps the coaches are going to use the game as an exhibition for the 1991 season, sort of a spring
scrimmage five months early. They can play all the freshmen and get a feel for what players can do, what
plays will work, and how the team will perform. Those players who didn’t get much playing time this year, but
will be expected to contribute heavily next season, will then have a chance to get some game experience. This makes
some sense, but if a Richard Howell, a Brett Boretti, or anyone for that matter, gets carried off the field
with a blown knee, will it be worth it? No.

Maybe the coaches thought that if they had only one win at this point in the season, a win over
a patsy like Baptist would be a good morale booster heading into next season. Well, we’ve got four wins now,
so do we need the game for a morale or record boost? No.

Not only doesn’t an end-of-the-season exhibition game make sense, but the fact that it’s against Baptist makes it downright dumb
to play the game. I’ll explain. Does anybody remember seeing Baptist in any of the preseason polls or conference outlooks?
Of course not. No self-respecting major publication bothers to make predictions about CLUB FOOTBALL TEAMS. That’s right, Baptist doesn’t have
a real football team. They have a CLUB team. Does it make any sense to play a bunch of keg-toting
football wannabes in an end-of-the-year exhibition game? No. What makes even less sense? We’re traveling to South Carolina to play
them. An away, end-of-the-season, exhibition game against a club football team. That just sends my heart racing. If it does
yours too, don’t worry if you can’t make the trip this year. This rivalry to end all rivalries is contracted
to be played again next year. Oh joy.
