a &>

Freshman Heather McGarrah and sophomore Stephanie Lindemann (left) were responsible for organizing the protest and made most of the signs carried by the demonstrators.

Photo by Ed Matthews

Don’t forget to pick up an application for 1990-91 financial aid, available now in Room 106 Chambers.

HELMS, from page 3

potential for improvement to say that we are truly where we need to be. I charge you to continue the good work you have done this year, and to continue to address any issue which you feel affects the lives of Davidson students. I also charge you to renew your zeal for change, never resting on your past achievements no matter how great they are, and to press as hard as is necessary in the exercise of your duty as senators and officers; that is, “to do everything you can to make the Davidson experience the best it can be for all its students.” If you do that, you can say that you have truly served your school and the student body, and to quote Spike once more, that you have “done the right thing.”

DIVEST, from page 1

who visited the campus last week, Helms and others have become convinced that Mandela’s release is a signal for Americans to increase—not to relax—economic pressure on the South African government.

Smith is certain that the main reason De Klerk decided to free Mandela was because of divestment and other economic pressures,” stated Helms.

Smith and Radebe inspired Helms to revive what he says is a “dead issue” in the SGA and to call for the total divestment of the college’s holdings in the apartheid government at the Trustees’ meeting and to request the senate’s action. “Smith’s message was, ‘By all means, divest now,’” Helms said.

Need money for college next year?

Wednesday, February 28, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Junior Darry Strickland agreed. “There’s a need not to be complacent just because Mandela has been released—and to realize that there are still people suffering.” Several Trustees also expressed an interest in the issue, according to Helms.

Divestment will be discussed further at the Trustees’ April meeting, but no action toward divestment has officially been taken or agreed upon by the Board.

A recently-elected member of the Board of Trustees, Scott Woodmansee, exclaimed that the demonstration was “about equal to some of the demonstrations I observed here in the 60s and early 70s when I was the college chaplain. It’s certainly a good group!” Such an action on the part of students he described as “another [important] way of saying that we don’t support racism.”

Environmental tip of the week
Intelligible, sensible, do-able and only slightly inconvenient ideas for the Davidson College student:

Return clothes hangers to the Davidson College Laundry for re-use. Most of you go there every couple of weeks, so take them with you. (Yes, ringing lightposts with hangers from 2nd and 3rd story windows is a form of re-use, but it is obviously not the best!)

NOW YOU CAN RECYCLE PLASTIC JUGS, TOO!—Robbie McKay holds up an official Union Cafe milk jug to demonstrate the kind of plastic now recyclable.

Photo by Jay Clugston

DO THE RIGHT THING.....in this case, it’s not that hard!

—D.C. Recycling Committee