4 MORE VP HOPEFULS, from page 3

million dollar Davidson Campaign, we will not have to wait until we are old and gray to feel the benefits.
As an SGA Vice President candidate, and most importantly, as a Davidson student, I encourage you, my peers, to boldly
try and chip away at the barriers of culture, race, and socioeconomics today, and become an involved member of the
unified Davidson family. You will be helping yourself and your home away from home.

—I, Jason Brannon, promise to work together with the President in providing an example for you to follow.

Kristi Kessler

One of the main objectives of the SGA is to provide a vital link between the students and the administration,
to provide a channel through which students’ voices can be expressed and heard. The office of vice president plays an
extremely important role in achieving these goals. The vice president must enjoy being an organizer. This person is in charge
of organizing and recruiting leadership for the various SGA committees such as publicity, SGA rides, and other committees that provide
vital services to the student body. The vice president also helps to coordinate the selection of students to serve on
the faculty committees, an opportunity for students to have input in many areas of campus life. The vice president must
work closely with the president to guide and direct the Senate as it explores all areas of campus life.

As a member of the Senate for the past two years, I, Kristi Kessler, have come to see the influence
the student voice can have. I have worked closely during the past two years on issues such as better campus
security, athletics, semesters, and many other issues pertinent to student life at Davidson. I have come to understand how the
SGA can provide vital student representation. My participation on the Senate has helped to strengthen my leadership qualities, as have
many other areas of involvement. For the past three years, I have worked closely with the SGA and the Admissions
Office to plan and execute SGA Weekend, a weekend for prospective students that takes place each spring. This has involved
much behind-the-scenes planning and organizing. This year, I have worked closely with the Admissions Office to develop the Davidson Ambassadors
Program, a program that coordinates all student volunteers in the Admissions Office. My experience as a hall counselor has helped
me to develop valuable skills of communication and interaction with other people. I have decided to run for the position
of SGA Vice President because I would like to help continue the strong tradition of the SGA for giving the
student body a voice, for fostering the strong link between the students and the college. My experience on the Senate
has shown me what the job of vice president entails, and I would like to be given the opportunity to
fill this position in an attempt to make the Davidson Experience the best it can be.

Prem Manjooran

The time I have spent as an Independent Senator on the SGA has made me aware of the responsibility and
the commitment the office of the Vice President entails. The position is one that involves much legwork and a steady
flow of backup and input that accelerates the wheels within the SGA. I suppose the best analogy would be that
of the lieutenant in charge of the assault on some isolated hill in the middle of nowhere: it’s his job;
the general in his command tent gets the credit for his tactics. I feel that I am adequately equipped to
handle that responsibility and commitment.

I suppose I could be accused of ambition. What, you might well ask, is a sophomore doing running for an
SGA office? However, I am quite convinced that the exposure I've had on this campus already has more than prepared
me for the challenge. Indeed, there’s no denying the...Fact that the position is a challenge; a challenge that as a
rising junior, I ought to be wary of. But, the nature of the office is such that it is almost
as though it is specifically designed to instill in the individual a deep-rooted sense of quiet satisfaction and contentment with
a job well done.

Wednesday, February 14, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

I will bring to the office a distinct perspective and a diversity that would best reflect the hopes and the
aspirations of a student body that shows increasing diversity with each passing year. As a rising junior, I guess I
am critically placed: I’ve been here long enough to know how the system works; but I haven’t been here so
long that I’ve forgotten what it is to be an underclassman. And more importantly, I will bring to the office
an enthusiasm and a sense of purpose that can only help the SGA’s efforts to be a truly representative body.

At this point in time, it would be easy to make glowing promises and eloquent statements of purpose. But, talk’s
cheap—paper tigers tend to deflate and burst all too easily. I would much rather my actions speak for myself.

Linsey Mills

My name is Linsey R. Mills and I am a rising junior. I have decided to run for the office
of Vice President of the SGA because, I, like many other students, am concerned about the future of Davidson College.
Although Davidson College is one that was built upon tradition and has gained national recognition because of its traditionally strong
academics, there are various facets of our college community that could benefit through changes that would bring about progress. These
changes would allow us to compete with those other Ivy-League schools who have seen that change will not only benefit
the college but also the community which supports it as well.

My qualifications speak for themselves. I have been involved not only on various campus committees but also in community enrichment
programs involving the area schools. Specifically, some of these are the Minorities Affairs Committee, an advisory committee to the President;
Director of the Davidson Elementary Tutoring Program, an after-school tutoring program for all students ages six through twelve; Big Brother/Big
Sister community program, a program designed to provide a child of the community with a positive role model; Counselor-Mentor for
the Love of Learning Program, which inspires young African-American students and helps them build self-esteem. Currently, I hold the office
of the Vice-President of the BSC.

Because of my involvement in different areas of the college, I am sensitive to the needs and concerns of various
groups on campus. Changes in the Athletic Department, the Security Department, Minority Affairs, Women’s Affairs, and in our curriculum are
just a few areas that I am aware of and am willing to work toward improving. My concerns are not
just for myself or for any one group on campus, but for the student body as a whole. I’m striving
toward creating an environment conducive to all students. I am looking forward to serving as your next Vice President of
the SGA.

Why don't you just let him have a little fun? He'll probably enjoy it more than you.

Come on Randy, my roommate just sent my little brother to the Court. We have to go.

Come on, Randy! We may have to carry him back!

I knew I remembered what Patterson Court was like.

Look, I'm not going to leave my brother passed out in the middle of a dance floor for a couple
of hours. It was a learning experience, wasn't it?

Did you talk with him? Was he okay?

Man, you should have been here to see your brother. He left a couple of minutes ago with over a
dozen girls.
