Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Wildcats beat Wofford! page 7

The Davidsonian
Volume LXXXI, Number 14
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Wednesday, January 31, 1990

Larry Ray's sister back on campus
By HEATH HARDAGE

Three years ago, a relatively unknown musical group who billed themselves as the “Indigo Girls” played here at Davidson College. Amy Ray, one of the two lead singers of the group, commented, “We played in the 900 Room, and no one knew who we were. People were kind of rude, which was hard to deal with.”

This past Friday, however, Indigo Girls did not encounter this problem. Hundreds of screaming fans filled Love Auditorium. Ray observed that, “Once people get to know who you are, they listen... it felt really good that students were there with the show.”

“Closer To Fine,” “Land of Canaan” and “Prince of Darkness” are among the group’s best-known songs. The New York Times on March 24, 1989, characterized their musical style by saying: “Their earnest, literary folk music sounds like Peter, Paul and Mary, the New Seekers and an acoustic Jefferson Airplane all rolled into one and enriched with the drone of their fellow Georgians R.E.M.”

The day after Friday night's concert at Davidson, Ray, in a phone interview, defined the band’s style as “definitely rooted in folk music—with lots of underground (musical) influences.” Emily Saliers, the other half of the musical duo, is “into soul stuff,” according to Ray. She has also been greatly influenced by Joni Mitchell. Shawn Colvin, a new artist on Columbia Records, is a current favorite of Saliers. Ray herself listens to “The Pixies, The Replacements and old Elton John.” Both musicians acknowledge a great debt to Bob Dylan in their work.

The Methodist roots of both women also had an impact on their music. “Emily's dad is a Methodist minister and a professor of theology. We were both brought up in Methodist towns,” noted Ray. Ray was a religion major at Emory University and she admitted that “I was influenced by the religious vocabulary. I felt drawn to the spiritual aspect.” Ray denied that the band can be characterized as “Christian rock,” but she affirmed that, “Our membership is Christian.”

See INDIGO, page 4

Grammy Award in the category of best new group.

Rescuing and reconstructing African-American history
By JENNIFER SIECK

Did you know that the Washington Monument is designed after an African obelisk? (An African obelisk is a structure that honored the African god Osiris and was also used as a time calendar, the first clock and many other “firsts.”) African culture was the first culture. These and other little-known facts were presented in a pictorial overview of African history and culture by Anthony T. Browder last Wednesday in the 900 Room. Browder, the 1990 Malcolm X Distinguished Speaker, was introduced by Assistant Dean of Students. Browder is an artist, writer/lecturer, independent Egyptologist and cultural historian. Browder is president of the Karmic Guide, D.C. Browder says he and others are “essentially involved in the rescue and reconstruction of African and African-American history and culture.” This is particularly important since Western society describes Africa prior to European invasion as...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.Savage and uncivilized. “It is important that we participate in this process because you find out it is the most distorted and most often misunderstood history and culture of any group of people in this particular society,” he said. He stressed the importance of knowing history and making it relevant to the present. History, and record keeping, Browder said, “is alive,” “significant,” and “a weapon.” “With history you can begin to liberate yourself and free your mind and begin to see things from a slightly different perspective,” he stated.

African culture began in Kemet (today known as Egypt), which is located in the northeastern corner of the African continent. Browder stated that the name given to a people associates them with a land mass and culture (i.e., Europeans come from Europe, Asians from Asia). Anthony Browder explains that “Kemet” is an African name meaning “the black land” or “the land of the black”; “Egypt” is a Greek name meaning “the black people.” 

William Bynum as “a graphic” 

Forum raises questions about semesters’ workload, length

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

During the SGA forum on semesters, panelists brought up several problems and proposed some solutions. Members on the panel included a student representative from each class, Registrar Sue Ross, and English Professor Gil Holland. The issues debated included the length of semesters, the amount of material due at the end, and vacations.

Opinions on the length of semesters ranged from keeping the current 15-week system to shortening it by one and a half weeks. Some students felt that the 15-week system enabled them to learn more. “We're lucky to have a long semester year,” said Sophomore Emily Sissler. Ross said she found the 15 weeks “exciting” and that they formed “a better educational end.” On the other hand, Senior Stan Humphries said, “A shorter semester could decrease burnout and make classes more fun.” Other options included shortening the semester internally by providing an Easter break and more reading days. “A church-affiliated school like Davidson should naturally provide an Easter break,” said Sissler.

The amount of material due during the semester’s last two weeks formed a large part of the discussion. Everyone agreed that too much material was due at that time. Junior Ellen Crawford brought up the problem of burnout. During the change from three terms to semesters, Crawford said that there was an “unwritten understanding that classes would be light that week.” Yet SGA President Tripp Helms mentioned that some faculty assigned papers and had tests due during the last week. Holland emphasized that students should go to department heads about their grievances. “We have not talked about it,” he said. “When we passed the vote [to semesters] we made some promises and these have been violated.”