14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990

Men's Soccer
Photo Courtesy Sports Info

NCAA Changes Afoot
By KRISTI KESSLER and LISA LENARD

On behalf of the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics, we would like to inform the college community of two important
issues.

The first regards the user policy of Davidson College Athletic Facilities. Details are currently being worked out to provide a
more liberal guest policy in response to concerns of students and faculty. Currently, outdoor facilities, including tennis courts, the golf
course, the lake campus, and the track, hold an open guest policy, as long as the guest is accompanied by
a Davidson student, faculty, or staff member. However, students, faculty, and staff would have precedence over any guests if the
outdoor facilities were to become overcrowded. A policy that grants a limited number of free “guest passes” for use of
Baker Sports Complex by friends and family members of students, faculty, and staff will be implemented in the near future.
The council would also like to inform students who participate in the Big Brother - Big Sister Program that they
may obtain free basketball tickets for most games for their Little Brother/Sister from the ticket office. More details will be
provided later.

The second issue regards the possible restructuring of divisions within the NCAA. Currently, Division I is subdivided into three subdivisions
according to the football program of the member school. Division I-A includes all schools with a Division I football program.
This includes teams like Michigan and UCLA. Division I-AA includes all schools that play Division I-AA football. This includes schools
like Furman and the Citadel. Division I-AAA includes schools with Division III football, or no football, but Division I in
other sports. This includes Davidson, and schools such as Georgetown and St. John’s.

There is a twenty-year-old battle between the subdivisions which may come to a head this January at the annual NCAA
convention. Schools in Division I-A with “Big Time” athletic programs want to make their own decisions regarding issues such as
limits on scholarship distribution. The three legislative proposals which could have the greatest impact on Davidson’s athletic program, if passed,
include:

1) A proposal that would prevent us from moving to Division III football, without providing a viable option, such as
creating a Division I-AAA football program.
2) A proposal that would establish minimum financial aid requirements in terms of athletic grants for membership.
3) A proposal that would require that only Division I contests be used to fulfill minimum scheduling requirements in all
Division I sports and that 50% of those contests above the minimum level also be against Division I teams.

If anyone has any concerns about these, or any other athletic issues at Davidson, please feel free to contact any
student or faculty member of the Advisory Council (Kristi Kessler, Stephen Bell, Lisa Lenard, Peter Krentz, Sally McMillen, J.B. Stroud,
and Tony Kaze).

Concentration clouds the face of Wildcat Lance Kinerk

Men's Soccer: Home and Undefeated
By ROBERT GRUBB

The Davidson men’s soccer team continued to dominate its home games by going 1-0-1 in this past weekend’s Davidson Invitational.
The team’s home record now stands at 10-0-1. Over the weekend Davidson faced Vanderbilt and Catawba. The team won 4-0
over Vanderbilt on Saturday and tied Catawba 2-2 on Sunday.

In the win over Vanderbilt, the team put together one of its best halves of the season in the second
period, after playing to a scoreless tie at halftime. The team produced four goals in a twelve-minute span in the
second half. The goals were scored by Craig Omli, Lance Kinerk, Lance Long, and Peter Cobb. This game was also
Scott Zucker’s third shutout of the season.

On Sunday, the Wildcats played another great game, outshooting Catawba 25-11 with about five of these Davidson shots hitting the
posts. This game went into overtime tied at one all.Ukrop scored the only Davidson goal in regulation. In the overtime
period, Ben Hayes put Davidson ahead 2-1, only to have Catawba tie the game for good a few minutes later.
The goal by Ukrop was his 16th of the season. Davidson is currently ranked sixth in the South region. Their
overall record is now 12-4-2 with a 4-2 record in the Big South Conference. On Monday, the Wildcats begin play
in the Big South Tournament. Their opponent has not been announced, but they will probably host either Augusta or UNC-Asheville.
The Wildcats played at Wake Forest yesterday and will play UNC on Saturday for parent’s weekend.

Men's Cross-Country
Davidson Team Shines
By PETER HURTADO

This past weekend, the men ran a partial squad in a “warm-up” 5K race. With Davidson’s front-runners resting up for
the Conference Meet, the younger runners showed excellent form for this stage in the season. The team thanks all those
who attended our home race last Saturday. This coming week, Coach Andrew will choose the seven runners who will represent
Davidson at the Conference Meet. The strong contribution from each runner has pleased Coach Andrew, who likes the team’s chances
to topple Radford in the Big South Championship. The men’s willingness to work hard and compete like champions has shone,
and the Conference has taken notice of this new challenger. Not enough can be said about the runners’ improvement over
last year, and the men anxiously await the Conference Meet.

The Men’s Tennis team continued its undefeated fall season last weekend with victories against UNC-Asheville and Western Carolina. The Wildcats
dropped only one match all weekend, while improving their record to 4-0. Davidson traveled to Asheville on Friday to take
on the Bulldogs in a Big South Conference tilt. The ‘Cats demonstrated their depth with strong performances from number three
player Kurtis Zabell and number four player Dave Tonidandel. Tonidandel defeated John Kent of UNC-A 6-0, 6-0. John Beyer also
played well at number five; Davidson blanked the Bulldogs 9-0. Frank expected a tougher match.

In fact, the Wildcats had little trouble in defeating the Catamounts 8-1, utilizing strong singles play across the board to
gain the victory. Zabell won easily at number three, defeating Greg Lovelace 6-0, 6-1. Davidson’s difficulties came in doubles. Commented
Frank, “I don’t know if it was playing on two consecutive days or not, but we didn’t seem sharp.” Both
the number one and number two doubles teams had to win three-set matches. Frank was pleased with freshmen Russell Briggs
and Ryan Harper’s straight-set victory at number three doubles.

In upcoming action, the Wildcats will look to avenge last spring’s setback to UNCC Saturday at 10 o’clock. Both the
men’s and women’s teams will be in action. Coach Frank expects the Forty Niners to test his team. “This should
be a good, close match, as always. Last spring was the first time we lost to them in a long
time,” said Frank.

Women's Cross-Country
Harriers Awaiting Conference Meet
By PETER HURTADO

In this past Saturday’s Davidson Invitational, a 2-mile “warm-up” for the conference meet, the lady Wildcats showed their strength by
running in a tight pack, sweeping the top six places. This depth will be the key to Davidson’s success this
Saturday. Coach Gary Andrew is quite optimistic about the squad’s chances to become Big South Conference Champions this weekend. The
women’s hard work and summer training has translated into a deep squad, and the immediate impact of freshmen Marshall, DeMoss,
and Sitek has gone a long way toward fulfilling Andrew’s goal of a conference championship.

Launch into the Air Force, and become an officer in the Biomedical Sciences Corps. You'll learn more, you'll grow faster—you'll
work with other dedicated professionals in a quality environment where your contributions are needed. In short, you'll gain more of
everything that matters most to you. You and the Air Force. Launch now—call USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 919-850-9549 STATION-TO-STATION COLLECT.
