Inside Art

Alex had gone off on another “what if.” This time he was considering the possibility of a head-on collision involving
an American car and a British one. Since one had the steering wheel on the left and the other on
the right, if they smacked each other squarely, the respective drivers would fly through their respective windshields and their respective
craniums would meet in a massive, fatal head-butt. A head-on collision within a head-on collision, if you will...

Suddenly Alex was startled out of his violent daydream by the strident voice of Mrs. Purbore, the trigonometry teacher: “Aaaaalex!”

At that point, I put the story down on the coffee table and got up to get the door. I
knew before I got there that it was James—mom had invited him over for dinner. James was my next-door neighbor
and the author of the short story I’d just been reading. His story won second place in our school’s short
story contest, so it got printed in “Winged Words,” our literary magazine. My English teacher happens to be the “Winged
Words” advisor and she was handing out extra credit points to anyone who bought the magazine, so I bought a
copy.

“Hey James, how’s it going?” I said. “You know I just started reading your story. It’s pretty good so far.”

“Oh—well, thanks.” James smiled and grabbed a thin, black braid of hair, transferring it from in front of his face
to its keeping place behind his ear.

“This guy Alex in the story reminds me a lot of you,” I said as we walked back into the
house, leaving the screen door to slam by itself. “Is it supposed to be autobiographical at all?”

“Yeah, there might be a little of that in there,” he said. We sat down on the couch and he
retrieved the magazine from the coffee table where I’d left it opened face down to his story. As he began
flipping through it I thought to myself, “Of course it’s autobiographical. If anyone has weird, violent fantasies during class, it’s
James. In fact, he probably wrote the story as a way to sort of advance or advertise his nonconformity. Subconsciously,
I’m sure he thinks, ‘people will read about this weird character Alex and connect him with me.’”

“Where’s Caroline?” James said without looking up. Caroline’s my mom’s name.

“She’s upstairs somewhere—I’ll go yell at her.” I got up and walked to the double doors which separated the family
room from the foyer type place that our staircase empties into. I opened one of these doors, stuck my head
through, and hollered, “Mom—James is here!”

Sometimes I don’t think my mom realizes just how different James and I are—I mean, we’re two very different people.
I’m normal, he’s not. She knows he’s weird—that you can tell by just looking at him. But I don’t think
she quite grasps the extent of his weirdness. If she did, I doubt she would do things like invite him
over for dinner. She thinks it’s cute that he’s kind of different, and she likes to sort of humor him
sometimes by being nice to him, but it seems almost patronizing to me. Oh, well.

It’s not that I don’t like James—I like him fine. It’s just that, well, as I say, we’re different. See,
we used to be best friends when we were little. We were both born in the houses we live in
now and we used to play in our backyards every day—usually with the hose in the summertime. Our favorite game
was to turn on the hose and then kink it back on itself a few inches from the nozzle. When
you let go, the water would surge out like crazy for a few seconds, then gradually die back down to
normal. I don’t know why we thought that was so fun, but we did. Maybe it was because our dads
hated it so much when we did that to the hose.

Sometime between middle school and high school, though, James started moving out into left field. You know, hanging out more
and more with that “alternative crowd,” buying clothes at the flea market, and listening to a lot of music and
all that. I remember one Monday when we were both freshmen. I hadn’t seen James in school that day and
I figured he hadn’t gotten back from Georgia yet. One of his friends with a car had gone down to
Athens for the weekend and invited James along. I think it was a big party weekend and the guy with
the car knew some people who went to school there or something. Anyway, Athens is about four or five hours
from here, so I thought they probably just hadn’t made it back in time for class. But then that evening
after dinner James came over to our house. When I opened the front door I was stunned—James was totally bald.

“What in the hell happened to you,” I whispered so my parents wouldn’t hear.
