2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1990

DuPont Fund Gives Davidson Grant For President’s Fund

By ELLIE BROWN

The Jessie Ball duPont Fund has announced a $30,000 grant to Davidson College through its Small Liberal Arts College Initiative.
The grant is being made to Davidson President John W. Kuykendall’s discretionary fund, to be used for college purposes as
he sees fit. Kevin McCarthy, director of corporate and foundation relations for the college, stated, “These funds are always significant
because they give the institution a degree of flexibility.” Davidson was one of 37 small liberal arts colleges to receive
the recent duPont grants. $10,000 of the money has already been paid to Davidson, and the rest will be paid
over the next five years.

Launched by the Jessie Ball duPont Religious, Charitable and Educational Fund, the Small Liberal Arts College Initiative has three components:
the President’s Discretionary Fund, the National Humanities Center Faculty Scholars, and the National Humanities Center Liberal Arts College Summer Institute.
Money allocated for the President’s Discretionary Fund may be used “for any institutional purpose,” according to the duPont Fund announcement
of the grants.

Established by the will of the late Jessie Ball duPont, widow of Alfred I. duPont, the Jessie Ball duPont Religious,
Charitable and Educational Fund awards grants to institutions to which Mrs. duPont contributed from 1960 to 1964. The fund supports
programs in education, health, human services, religion, culture, the environment, and historic preservation. Grants are made primarily to address the
emerging issues and needs of the South. Minority programs, need-based scholarships, and programs designed to train future leaders through private
higher education are targeted.

Naval Commander Speaks On Meaning of POW Experience

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

Porter Halyburton, a 1963 Davidson graduate and POW in North Vietnam for 7-1/2 years, will speak about his “Search for
Meaning” at his alma mater on Sunday, December 2. The free public lecture begins at 7:30 p.m. in the Art
Gallery of Chambers Building. Halyburton now serves as a professor of strategy and policy at the Naval War College in
Providence, Rhode Island. He was taken prisoner in 1965 when his fighter plane was shot down over North Vietnam. For
many months he was presumed killed, and a funeral was held for him in his hometown of Davidson. When he
was released in 1973 and returned to Davidson for a homecoming, he was presented with the headstone from his grave.
He keeps it now in his backyard in Providence.

Though he was tortured and deprived by his captors, Halyburton shuns bitterness over his experience. He looks instead to the
friendships and opportunities that resulted from his imprisonment. At one point he nursed a badly injured fellow POW, Fred Cherry,
and kept his comrade alive through ill treatment by their captors. He and Cherry developed a deep and lasting friendship
from the experience. Initially, he and other POWs passed time merely waiting for their release. But soon he realized, “there
was life to be lived there in prison in addition to the life to come afterwards,” he said. He began
to pass his days in highly disciplined training of his mind, setting up a mental filing cabinet with over 70
slots for subjects as diverse as “Aviation,” “Family,” and “Photography.” Whatever any of the prisoners knew - a language, how
to drive a truck, a book, poetry - was learned and regularly reviewed. Halyburton also wrote poems, one of which
was released by the Associated Press and printed nationwide when he was freed.

Today, Halyburton stops short of criticizing the aims of the Vietnam War. He saves his finger-pointing for the leaders who
carried it out. “If I could put the blame on anyone it would be Lyndon Johnson,” he said. “Anyone who
was knowledgeable about Vietnam was ostracized as a Communist, and Johnson ignored some good advice from them.” Still a warrior,
though of a different sort, he is dedicated to training future leaders. “I hope to

(Do to an already highly developed sense of embarrassment, the persons involved in this escapade wish to remain anonymous.)

When person D purchased his 1979 Honda, some creative past owner had tampered with the logo. All but the “a”
in Honda had been removed and replaced by the first three letters of a “Dodge” emblem ripped off a lowly
Chrysler. Hence person D’s mode of transportation became affectionately known as “the Doda.”

Mondays always stink, and especially those that fall after a break. Last Monday treated person D especially poorly. His Doda
exploded. The unfortunate D, you see, had lent his Doda to some friends who needed to run some errands. Persons
B and C obtained a gallon of gasoline and some brake fluid. Person A received a package of HTH (pool
cleaner) from his mother. Why persons A, B, and C would wantto reconnoiter such an array of chemical paraphernalia have
something to do with their remains a state secret. "making the right decisions,” he said. Before Thanksgiving break, persons B
and C returned the Doda to person A. They had forgotten, however, to remove said chemicals from the trunk (which
also contained some cans of motor oil and person A’s graduation cap and gown). There everything remained until person D
parked the Doda in front of PAX after returning from break.

On Monday, person A was walking back to the senior apartments from the computer lab. On the way, he noticed
the charred remains of an oddly familiar-looking automobile. Hurrying back to his abode, person A called up to his porch
on which stood person C: “Hey person C, I was walking down the hill and I saw a car that
was all burnt up. It looked kind of like person D’s car.”

Person D's car exploded in the PAX parking lot Monday due to HTH and brake fluid left in the trunk.

Noting a sinking feeling in his gut, person C observed, “Uh-oh, I hope person B took that gas out of
person D’s trunk.” Close upon this realization, the phone rang. Person A answered, “Oh, hello officer. You say person D’s
car seems to have combusted? Yeah, it seems I might know something about that.”

What followed was an awakening of sorts. Persons A, B, and C examined the scene of the conflagration and person
A spoke with the Davidson police. The truth became painfully apparent. Somehow the chemicals in the trunk had mixed together.
Perhaps some motor oil leaked on the HTH, but it’s hard to say. Anyway, the stuff blew. The insides of
the Doda burned to ashes and the back window ended up about eight feet from the car itself. As person
D noted sadly, “Nothing is salvageable” (including, ironically enough, person A’s cap and gown).

Confronting person D and accepting responsibility for their transgressions, persons A, B, and C stated, “Person D, we’re sorry we
blew up your Doda.” Stated person D, “Now I don’t have a car.” An excited observer approached the shell-shocked clan,
“Man,” quoth he, “I wonder what would have happened if somebody had been driving when it went off!” The four
felt intruded upon by the prying voyeur. Turning slowly to face his questioner, person C surmised, “I don’t know, but
wouldn’t have wanted to be in the trunk.” Person A continued a bit coldly, “Hey man, it’s a modern world.
Cars get blown up. What do you want?”

The four wandered off together, still friends but wondering how to remove this financial monkey wrench from the inner workings
of their relationship. The observer remained behind, poking through Doda’s ash-ridden innards. Fortunately, person D had already removed the change
from his ashtray.

By SARAH SADOWSKI and MARCY WHITE

Recently, the efforts to protect our environment at Davidson College have been spreading throughout the community. Members of the Environmental
Action Committee have been working with local businesses in Davidson and Cornelius to reduce the use of non-recyclable materials. These
businesses have agreed to support the use of the ‘Davidson Recycles’ cup. You can now use your recycling cup when
you purchase a drink at these businesses instead of using their paper or Styrofoam cups: Zack’s, Steak-n-Hoagie, Subway, The Soda
Shop, Wendy’s, Kentucky Fried Chicken, and Burger King. McDonald’s decision is still pending. Prices will vary on refills. The EAC
will send out a letter explaining the process and prices in detail. Hopefully, this action will spark a whole new
movement towards environmental action in the community.

“However, we need to continue our own efforts in environmental action. Although the effort with the recycling cups is great,
we can’t forget our own responsibilities towards recycling and reducing consumption here on campus. We all need to be more
conscientious about recycling consistently and properly. This includes emptying containers before recycling them, sorting materials properly, and disposing of non-recyclable
waste in the trash bin. Also, keep in mind that computer and office paper is recyclable and should be placed
in its appropriate recycling bin. All are encouraged to participate in the weekly recycling efforts. For more information, call the
College Union at 892-2140.”
