The Davidsonian College Weekly

VOLUME LXXXI THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Phi Beta Kappa members were initiated last Thursday, April 5 at Phi Hall. Dr. Timothy Breen, professor of history from
Northwestern University, was the guest speaker.

Davidson to Begin Ethnic Studies
Four Faculty Members to be Added
By JULIE BREWER

Davidson will be adding four faculty members next year so that in the future students will have the option to
make Ethnic Studies a concentration. New courses will be offered in Anthropology/Sociology, French, History, and Political Science. The new faculty:
professor of History, Barbara Ballard from Carleton College; professor of Political Science, George Nzongola from Howard University; professor of Sociology,
Michael Williams from UNC-Charlotte; and his wife Kibibi Mack-Williams, who will be a lecturer in Afro-American studies.

“This year we have been more successful than we have been in years because you cannot have the program without
the faculty,” said Robert Williams, Dean of Faculty.

The following courses will be proposed to the Education Policy committee which is chaired by Dean Williams, and then to
the Faculty committee: Race and Ethnic Relations; Black Families; Class, Caste and Ethnicity in South Asia; Francophone Africa and Caribbean;
Quebec and French North America; African-American History to 1877; African Political Systems; Foreign Policies of African States; and a seminar
on African-American Women. Existing courses that will also be a part of the concentration are the Old South and the
Old South Since 1865, which are taught by Sally McMillen, assistant professor of history.

Dean Williams said that their goal is to make African-American studies available as a concentration like Medical Humanities and International
Studies which are currently offered, and the Gender Studies concentration which will be offered next year. “My sense is that
Ethnic American Studies should be offered in a global context because ethnicity is a worldwide phenomenon,” said Dean Williams.

The proposal is expected to be ready by the end of next year. It is hoped that funding will be
provided by

Students Reject Minus Grades
By JAY J. CHAUDHURI

Davidson students overwhelmingly rejected the minus grading system in an SGA poll conducted on Tuesday, April 3. Students voted 437
to 83 against the new grading scale. Said Doug Jobe, SGA President, “I was not heavily surprised by the rejection.”
The proposal was approved earlier in a faculty meeting held last month.

Students also favored the implementation of an A+ (4.3) to the grading system as well as a unified grading scale
(i.e., every professor has the same numerical grades corresponding with letter grades) for all classes. According to Jobe, students need
to talk to faculty members since the SGA will be working on the Educational Policy Committee regarding future developments of
the grading system. The faculty is expected to discuss the proposal with the EPC next Monday, April 16. The EPC
will then “iron out” some of the implementations with the concerns of the students taken strongly into consideration.

“At this point minus grades will occur unless the faculty revotes not to have minus grades,” said Jobe. “What time
and in what form the grading system will be implemented is still undetermined. The EPC meeting is the next big
step.”

Photo by Ed Matthews
Stumps are the only reminder of these white pine trees which were cut down recently above the tennis courts.

Trees Cut in Duke Parking Lot to Make Way for Tennis

The trees lining the embankment between the Duke parking lot and the outdoor tennis courts were removed to eliminate the
shade they cast over the tennis courts. According to Women’s Tennis Coach Caroline Price, the trees, which were planted in
1975, hadHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

grown so large that they created a distracting shade over many of the courts. - BYAOE MARIS On ver Spring
Break the t ae “This shading,” she said, “is an undesirable factor when playing t >< ae The removal of
the trees also coincides with the tennis department’s plan to convert the twelve hard courts into a tennis arena. The
embankment previously covered by the trees will be terraced, and a short growing hedge will be planted to replace the
trees.

“We need to continue to increase our number of ethnic relation courses within the different areas. This will make ethnic
concentration a reality,” said assistant dean of students, Stone Bynum. Currently, Davidson is a member of the Leadership South Consortium
and the Swarthmore Consortium, which are organizations designed to increase the number of minority faculty and students at liberal arts
colleges. “It is important for students to see minority and diversity issues in a broad context,” said Dean Williams.

INSIDE
News 4 | Opinions 6
Environmental Action Group to Sponsor Earth Divestment Day
Campus Living 11 | Sports 14
Spring Frolics and International Night
Sophomore Kathy Beach — Photo Feature Breaks More Records

NOTE FROM THE EDITORS
First, it is necessary to apologize for not putting out a Davidsonian last week. Our transition into editorship has been
an abrupt one, and many changes are taking place. You will notice that the format has changed considerably from the
last issue, changes that we hope will be refreshing. We have returned to the script slogan: “The South’s Foremost College
Weekly.” The new format resembles The New York Times with more stories to choose from on the front page. (There
are more “jumps” in the articles, meaning that an article is continued on another page instead of appearing in total
on a single page. These continuations allow more articles to appear on a page letting you scan more of what’s
happening).

Features has been renamed Campus Living. Editorials have moved to the left side of Opinions. The back page will no
longer be a calendar of events; rather there will be a short list of events in Campus Living. More assistant
editorships and new managing assistants will be created. A position shared by three people will aid in production and layout.
Someone will be chosen as campus mediator to make his or her way around Patterson Court once a week with
dossiers of assigned articles that people may volunteer to write. The Davidsonian is your paper, in the past it has
been an oligarchy with a feeble infrastructure where only a few people essentially ran the show. Last year's editors, though,
deserve much credit for their consistency in getting out a weekly issue. But it is sad that they had to
pull an all-nighter once a week to do so, for the stress on them was immense. Hopefully, we can minimize
the pressure by delegating more duties to more students.

To interview for editorships, assistant editorships, and manager positions sign up in the Dean of Students office from Monday, April
16 until Friday, April 20. A description of these positions and the duties they entail will be listed. Interviews will
take place in the week following (April 23-April 27) and will be in The Davidsonian office upstairs in the Union.
We are targeting one more issue for this year, then planning a weekly schedule for next year. These changes are
by no means permanent; we are merely trying something different. Whether you like or dislike what has been done, please
let us know. The paper, remember, is yours.
