4 THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor
TRENT STEVENS, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor
HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor
PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager

Founded in 1914

BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager

DAVIDSONIAN ACTION IS FANTASTIC. DAVIDSONIAN FEVER. CATCH IT.

Winning Again

Junior Linsey Mills’ interception and consequent return for a touchdown in last week’s football game against Johnston C. Smith summarized
the manner in which Davidson football and all other fall sports are headed: the other way. The Wildcats' 17-7 victory
over crosstown rival Smith marked the first time in ten years that Davidson has won two consecutive games.

But football isn’t the only team that is winning. Wednesday’s victory by the soccer team over fourteenth-ranked Duke at Durham
was proclaimed by Coach Slagle to be “the biggest victory” ever. The team is currently ranked fifth in the South
and are certain to move up after this week’s win.

The record of the women’s volleyball team is an impressive 10-1, and the field hockey team crushed Roanoke College 7-0
last Saturday to bring their record to 3-1. Women’s cross-country placed five of its runners in the top eight in
last week’s meet at the Carson-Newman’s invitational.

Amidst conference changes that are taking place around our area, it is comforting to know that Davidson has finally found
its niche in athletics. And credit should deservingly go to our new Athletic Director Terry Holland and student-athletes. Yes, Davidson’s
winning again.

J.J.C.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Thursday during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Please address mail
and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the
top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily
reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request.
Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Korner Pub Exhibits Racism

To the Editors:

The Korner Pub has been an integral part of the social life here at Davidson for many years. Students often
make the short trip to Mt. Mourne on the weekends and especially during the week to relax with a game
of pool and a few mugs of beer. The bar depends on the entire Davidson student body, regardless of gender
or fraternal association, for a surprising percentage of its business eight months out of the year. Despite this dependence, the
owners of the Pub are not extremely fond (to be euphemistic) of certain members of the college community on the
basis of their race. Several students have even been denied service and asked to leave because they did not suit
the owners’ standards. This adherence to ideals which are by some standards radi-cally conservative, and by others completely backward, is
common knowledge to many who frequent the establishment. How ironic it is that at a school in which we are
taught to be open-minded, so many of us can knowingly give financial support to an institution which fosters such a
narrow view of the world. I would hope that in the future we would keep this paradox in mind when
we’re looking for somewhere to go to have a good time.

Sincerely,
KIRBY SHEALY '93

September 16, 1990
Jared Baxter

Every time an issue comes up in S.G.A. this year it seems the Physical Plant Director Bob Collins is behind
it somewhere. This is the guy who’s behind the ever-popular “from the ceiling loft rule.” This is the guy who
wants to renovate Patterson Court but isn’t quite sure where to put the inhabitants of the P.C.A. apartments during renovation.
This is the guy who created the wonderful new parking lot but forgot to install lights. This may even be
the guy who is rumored to be behind the recent proliferation of towing vehicles on campus. I figure he’s either
trying to tow 1200 cars in two months so he’ll win the microwave (1500 and he’s got a 25-inch color
t.v.), or he’s saving up to buy a tow truck of his own.

Being a new member of our Davidson community Mr. Collins must, like most rookies, feel a need to rock the
boat. And baby, it’s rocking. However, (and this may come as a shock given my tone to this point) I
think we've got to give the guy a break. He’s got some good points. If lofts really are a fire
hazard when they’re less than three feet from the ceiling (which is certainly arguable) then there should be a new
policy. And the court houses need renovating worse than the Parthenon. Hopefully, he’ll be able to find a place for
the inhabitants to stay, especially since there’s so much room in the dorms this year.

I also know that he has been working hard on the lighting situation. We’ve actually got a comparison shopper in
the physical plant this year. Instead of buying expensive light poles, the physical plant is making their own. So, that’s
why we're still waiting for lights, (after all, we’ve only been waiting for campus lighting since Edison). Furthermore, the only
reason everyone’s so miffed about the towing rules is because they were never enforced before. I think Mr. Collins is
just trying to scare us. It reminds me of a story I learned in psychology 101. This was a little
story about a baby elephant. The baby elephant had a big chain around his leg and try and try as
he might, he couldn’t break that chain. When the baby elephant grew up to be a big strong elephant he
never even tried to break that chain because he learned when he was young that he couldn’t do it. So
the moral of this analogy must be that Mr. Collins is conditioning us to be good boys and girls and
park our cars where we're supposed to. But I do think he’s going to ease up eventually, (Be nice Bob,
we're begging).

All-in-all, he’s doing a good job.

Recycle This Davidsonian
