THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990 SPORTS 11

Photo by Chris Lee

Fans hoot, dance, yell, and wave banners as the football team wins their second.

Men's Cross Country
Peter Hurtado

Runners Running Swift

The men’s cross country team posted perhaps its best team effort in recent years this Saturday when the squad placed
second out of six teams at the Carson-Newman Invitational in Jefferson City, TN. Facing their first intercollegiate competition, the Wildcats
placed nine runners in the top 17 places, including four within the top ten. Second to Berea College, the team
buried Big South rival UNC-Asheville.

The Wildcats’ vast improvement from last season was apparent as Davidson had its top seven runners, including freshmen, finishing faster
than its top two runners finished last year. This year’s young force was paced by junior Chris Otrok, who placed
third overall and covered the 5-mile course in a blazing 27:19. Sophomore Ian Stewart was close behind at 27:39, placing
sixth. Strong performances by freshman Shelton Bellew, junior Ted Richardson, and sophomore Dave Kerns gave Davidson a strong top five,
which will be necessary to compete successfully in the Big South.

Freshmen Cam Dauler and Richard Wharton rounded out the top seven runners, finishing ahead of Senior John Moss and sophomore
Pete Hurtado. Freshman Greg Fisher also ran well for Davidson. Eight of ten Wildcat harriers ran career personal-best times on
the day. Coach Gary Andrew’s improved training methods have reaped huge rewards. Freshmen Shelton Bellew, Cam Dauler, and Richard Wharton
came prepared to compete, and have bolstered the top seven. Upperclassmen Otrok, Stewart, Richardson, and Kerns have seen their hard
summer training pay dividends thus far. The return of Hurtado from early injury and the continued improvement of Senior John
Moss should make Davidson a contender in the Big South Conference Meet in October.

Women's Cross-Country
Women Wildcats Score Big In Impressive Victory
By PETER HURTADO

The Davidson Women’s Cross-country team took a large step toward a Big South Conference Championship Saturday when they ran away
from the field to take first place at the Carson-Newman Invitational in Jefferson City, TN, their first intercollegiate competition of
the season. While depth has been lacking in past years, the 1990 squad includes three freshmen, and had its top
seven runners finish faster than last year’s top five. Davidson placed five runners in the top eight, and all seven
in the top fifteen finishers. The ‘Cats finished 32 points ahead of Big South member UNC-Asheville.

Junior Kathy Beach paced the field, winning with a course record time of 19:53 for 5K. Not far behind was
freshman upstart Karen Marshall, finishing in second place at 20:18. This provides the “1-2 punch” Davidson will need to win
large meets. But the real story is the depth of the squad. Sophomore Heather Tank, freshman Jean DeMoss, and Senior
Katie Reynolds ran hard to place in the top ten, and will be quite valuable against Big South squads. Senior
Laurie Reams and freshman Lisa Sitek rounded out a strong top seven which will surely improve as the season goes
on.

The addition of strong freshmen and the improved training techniques of Coach Gary Andrew have provided Davidson with the depth
it’s been waiting for. Freshmen Marshall, DeMoss, and Sitek have come in with a good distance base, andReturning runners Beach,
Tarpley, Reynolds, and Reams have shown improvement and leadership. Frontrunner Kathy Beach and freshman sensation Karen Marshall, with consistent training,
should lead their team to a high place in the Big South standings.

Next weekend, the Lady Wildcats travel to the Baptist College Invitational in Summerville, SC, to take on conference rivals on
the course which will be the site of the conference championship meet.

WRITE FOR SPORTS. The Davidsonian needs writers of every sex. Call BRUCE BALESTIER at x6217 or TOM KOONCE at x6213.
Benjamin Franklin once said, "To write for Davidsonian Sports does a body good."

Women's Soccer

Women's Soccer Struggles

The women’s soccer team, still in its infancy, is cutting its competitive teeth against the best teams the South has
to offer. The Wildcats fell to 0-3-1 with their 6-0 loss to Erskine last week, but coach Diane Boettcher recognizes
this period as one of growth. “I was proud of the way we continued to play aggressively on the offensive
side of the field," says Boettcher, "rather than packing it in on the defensive end after their initial scores. It
would have been easy to bring everyone back on defense to keep the score down." She adds, "If we want
to be able to compete with the Erskines of the world we’re going to have to take our lumps for
a while as we improve to their level.”

The Wildcats journey to Virginia Tech Saturday.

Photo by Beth Pharr
Lisa Lenard and Maria Rey look on with chagrin. The women Wildcats are 0-3-1. They play at Virginia Tech this
weekend.

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

Plans for a club racquetball team have been underway for a while now, spearheaded by women’s tennis coach Caroline Brown-Price.
Saturday’s tournament at the Baker Sports Complex was another step in that direction. The field of 15 was pared down
to semi-finalists Bob Price (Assistant Athletic Director), Matt Dormer, Caroline Brown-Price, and Armando Sanchez. Sanchez defeated Mr. Price in the
final.

Hockey

Continued from Previous Page

The Cats’ domination came through in the statistic department. Davidson pounded Wake Forest for 39 shots on goal, while allowing
the Deacons only 12. Mistakes in the penalty area were also detrimental to Wake Forest; it allowed Davidson 14 corner
hits while taking only four.

Saturday’s game against Roanoke saw total domination by Davidson over a less experienced team which was playing its first game.
The Wildcats amassed a 5-0 halftime lead on goals by Jennifer Roos, Lauren Follmer, Jacquelin Ukrop, and two by Simone
Plaisance. Before 10 minutes were gone in the second half, Davidson had scored twice more, this time on goals by
Mary Russ and Monique Dockter.

“We got almost everybody in the game,” said coach Betsy Pryor. Twenty-two out of 23 players saw action in Saturday’s
game, a very remarkable feat since only eight in-game substitutions are allowed. “We totally dominated,” Pryor added. “We worked together
well as a team and our movement in the circle was great.” Roanoke had zero shots on goal, an overall
credit to the Wildcats.

After losing Wednesday’s game to Duke 3-0, Davidson Field Hockey will travel to Boone Friday to meet Appalachian State. Then
to Radford, Virginia on Sunday to play Radford University. The Cats are at home next against Salem on September 26.
