12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

GO TO
MEDICAL SCHOOL

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books, and fees paid in full—plus earn more than
$700 a month while you attend school. Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on
the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program.

AND SAVE

We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the Army, Navy, or Air Force.

If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain valuable medical experience serving on
active duty 45 days each school year as a commissioned officer in the Reserves.

After graduation, you'll serve three years or more—depending on the Service you select and the level of scholarship assistance you
receive—as a respected Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits, and the chance to work
with a variety of patients and the latest medical technology.

If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice—and want to cut the expense of
medical school—send for more information today.

YES! Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program can help cut my medical school
expenses. I meet the age requirements noted below. I understand I am under no obligation.

Check up to three:
[ ] Army (21-34 years of age)
[ ] Navy (21-36 years of age)
[ ] Air Force (18-34 years of age)

Please print all information clearly and completely.

Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865, Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102

[ ] Male [ ] Female

Last Name
First Middle Initial
Address Apt. #
City State Zip
Phone
Area Code Number
College Birth Date
Mo Day Year
Field of Study Graduation Date
Mo Year

The information you voluntarily provide will be used for recruiting purposes only. The more complete it is, the better we
can respond to your request (Authority 10 USC 503).

If you're not sure—let someone else do the driving.

National Headquarters
Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

Don't get wrecked. If you're not sober—

With Apple's introduction of three new Macintosh® computers, meeting the challenges of college life just got a whole lot easier.
Because now, everybody can afford a Macintosh.

The Classic is our most affordable model, yet it comes with everything you need—including a hard disk drive. The LC
combines color capabilities with affordability. And the IIsi is perfect for students who need a computer with extra power and
expandability.

No matter which Macintosh you choose, you'll have a computer that lightens your workload without giving you another tough subject
to learn. Every Macintosh computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And when you've learned one
program, you're well on your way to learning them all. That's because thousands of available programs all work in the
same, consistent manner. You can even share information with someone who uses a different type of computer—thanks to Apple's versatile
SuperDrive which reads from and writes to Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple® II floppy disks.

See the new Macintosh computers for yourself, and find out how surviving college just got a whole lot easier.

It’s the Monday Night Football Meal Deal. Only from Domino's Pizza!

CALL US!
896-8007

DOMINO'S

For further information visit Computer Services Center or contact Lydia Lorenzin at Ext. 2432.
