Wednesday, February 28, 1990  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kappa Alpha thanked

Dear Editor,

The athletic department and the soccer teams would like to thank the pledge class of the Kappa Alpha fraternity for the path that they built from the Baker Sports Complex to the soccer field. Additional thanks should be directed to Scott Zucker who headed the project for the fraternity, Paul Pergiel who was the liaison for the Grounds department, and Irvin Brawley who oversaw the project. Thanks for a job well done.

Sincerely,  
Sterling Martin  
Diane Boettcher  
Charlie Slagle

Weight room hours still a problem

Dear Editor,

For the past four years, I have used the Johnston gym weight-room basically at any time and on any day of the week. Unfortunately, however, now that we have a several million dollar Baker Sports Complex, not only have the hours of the Johnston gym weight-room been drastically reduced, but recently, even those hours which are specified for student use are not always available. Last Sunday afternoon, I waited patiently for the weight-room to open officially for student use only to be informed that, without the work-study student on duty (who had neglected to show up), I could not use the equipment. This was despite the fact that three track members and their coach were already using the equipment (behind a locked door). In the past four years, the number of times I have lifted without a work-study student present far outnumbers the times when one was actually on duty. This problem seems only to be getting worse as the days go by. I understand we are in a transition stage between the two sports buildings, yet there must be something logical that can be done during this period. I feel this whole situation is extremely ironic for a school that appears to be increasing its health and athletic consciousness. There seems to be a communication problem between the Union and the athletic department on exactly what occurs in Johnston gym. There is no excuse for this, and I sincerely hope that someone can find the time to solve what is a simple problem compared to the many other dilemmas this school encounters.

Sincerely,  
Karen S. Marston ’90

Mark, women "sweat" also

Dear Editor,

To be honest, Mr. Puckett, I have been offended by your column, “In Good Health.” I realize this is a purpose of your articles which has been adequately accomplished; however, I am still compelled to respond. Your failure to recognize those Davidson women who take care of their bodies regularly and “sweat,” as you so descriptively expressed it, has been a severe oversight on your part. I am certain you must catch a glimpse of us in the gym. Why have you neglected to mention us in an article? I do not ask you for praise for taking care of our bodies, Mr. Puckett. I do not believe it necessitates praise. I do, however, hope that in the future, when this campus is depicted as one whose students have “ceased to care for themselves” physically, the Davidson Community will be aware that there are both women and men who “sweat” -- we are just not as vocal about it as you, Mr. Puckett.

Sincerely,  
[Name Missing]DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, News Editor
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
Bruce Balestier, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Administration is cause of court boycott

Last night an important component of athletics was absent at the basketball game. For the second week, Davidson’s cheerleaders boycotted the game. Last week they simply didn’t cheer at timeouts. This week they didn’t show up at all. Their absence is a sad commentary on the kind of support they are receiving from the college, particularly the athletics department. It seems that the promises made last year have only been half realized and in their frustration the cheerleaders chose to protest.

While they’ve gotten new uniforms, it is about the only visible change in what the school has done for them. Their attempts at improving the quality and repertoire of the squad have come to nothing, they say. In particular, having to fight to perform during one’s own halftime demonstrates a lack of consideration on the part of those who invite outsiders to entertain spectators. All halftimes were planned in advance without consultation of the cheerleaders. Whatever ideas the squad may have are being ignored and hours of practice have proven to be futile.

Last week some cheerleaders were crying after weeks of frustration and talks with athletics officials, who seemed to give them the runaround about why they couldn’t perform. Such a situation is inconsiderate, absurd, and uncalled for. It is ironic that a group which is committed to cheering our teams when not many others do, is being slighted. Most institutions give priority to their own squads at athletic events. Ours are not consulted nor supported. While Davidson students have noticed the improvement in the squad, no respect is being accorded them by the administration.

The basketball season ends Saturday. Most members of the squad say that they will not cheer next year. Davidson needs to shape up or else in the fall it will be wondering again why it’s so hard to form a cheerleading squad.

—m.m.

roads, in the pool, and emerging from aerobic classes. I assume you spend a great deal of time in these places. Why

Kristi Calhoun ‘90

Someone hold Lucia’s hand

Dear Editors,

Pity poor Lucia Kendall. What a terrible existence she must have in this world, which simply is not good enough for her. I feel for her. I sit, fraught with emotion, every time I read her plaintive, impassioned cries in The Davidsonian, hoping that somehow the world might become something less odious to her. My heart and sympathy go out to this tormented girl. I can only hope that when Lucia’s latest crisis hits her next week, that there will be a person there to hold her hand so that she might not put pen to paper.

Sincerely,
Thomas W. Grant '91

Whether you want to write about gym hours, Mark or Lucia, send your letters to: Box 219, The Davidsonian.