THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

Proposed Changes for Freshmen Advisor Elections
By Suzanne Davis '91 and Bill Smith '91

The office of Freshman Advisor at Davidson is one that has been surrounded by an aura of mystery for most of the student body. After reading their handbooks, freshmen wander around campus feeling neglected by those so-called Freshman Advisors who have yet to give them one ounce of advice. Each year, Patterson Court suppers are interrupted by candidates trying to explain the job and to convince upperclassmen that they would be most qualified. We see millions of flyers and spray-painted sheets decorating dorm walls for a week in the Fall, we vote (or according to the voter turnout, we don’t vote) and then... nothing. Where did those Freshman Advisors go?

In a few weeks, the student body will be asked to decide whether or not the process for electing Freshman Advisors is appropriate for the responsibilities involved. And in order to make an educated decision, you should know exactly what those responsibilities are.

Freshman Advisors work directly with the Dean of Students Office to interview, select, train, and advise the Hall Counselors, a position that is not elected by the entire student body. With the Dean's Office, they plan Fall Orientation for Hall Counselors and freshmen. Their duties begin immediately after the election in November and continue until the next Freshman Advisors are elected.

We believe that the current election process does not properly choose the team that will assume the responsibilities of Freshman Advisor. Our reasons for a different selection process are threefold. One, the Freshman Advisors do not work with the entire student body and could not accurately represent the student body’s wide variety of opinions if required to as the election suggests. Two, both the Dean of Students Office and the Residence Life Office deserve input beyond that of persuasion because the Freshman Advisors, as we have mentioned, work directly with these offices. And third, because the Freshman Advisor selection is conducted by itself, it receives a small percentage of student participation and wastes the time and effort of the Student Government Association and the applicants.

We recommend the following selection process:
1. The Freshman Advisor team must consist of one male Hall Counselor and one female Hall Counselor.
2. Submit an application by teams no later than 8:00 a.m. two Tuesdays prior to the Thanksgiving break. The application would consist of their reasons for applying and their statement of goals.
3. A closed forum will be held at the Hall Counselor meeting prior to the Thanksgiving break where the candidates will have the opportunity to discuss their goals before an audience consisting of current Hall Counselors, current Freshman Advisors, and at least four representatives from both the Residence Life Office and the Dean of Students Office.
4. After all of the candidates have answered questions posed by the forum, a vote will be taken by confidential ballot, and the votes will be counted by a member of the Student Government Association. The team receiving the majority of the votes will assume the responsibilities of Freshman Advisors upon notification by the Student Government Association representative.
5. The term of the Freshman Advisors will extend from the above vote until May of their senior year. Freshman Advisors will be responsible for the Hall Counselor team which they selected throughout the entire academic year.

A final observation is worth mentioning. The Freshman Advisor applicants will be able to focus their energies on the position which they desire to assume throughout the selection process rather than plastering the campus with unnecessary posters, sheets, or flyers.

Thank you for reading our proposal. We would appreciate your vote in favor of this change in the upcoming election. If you have any questions or comments concerning our proposal, please talk with either of us.

Suzanne Davis and Bill Smith are 1990-91 Freshmen Advisors.

Well, here we are again. Another week has passed in this hypnotic hamlet we know and love as Davidson. Not much has changed in the past week around here, excepting the topic of the petty chatter. Last week’s “how was your fall break?” has been replaced by the post-homecoming niceties of: “how was your weekend?” and “who was your date again?” It’s pretty pleasant around here.

In the world at large, we see before us a planet of multitudinous maladies: a staggering national deficit, the unreasonably high age of consent, the alarming possibility that the Helms menace could be re-elected next month as a result of the fear many southerners have of rational, open-minded humanists, the ugliness in the Middle East, our decaying environment, and the appalling lack of high-quality bourbon-flavored underwear, just to name a few. In spite of this, beloved reader, all is right with the world. While the Cincinnati Reds spend this week competing...For the right to be known as the best baseball team in the entire world, Pete Rose will be rotting away in jail, a broken and hated man. Yes, life is rich. Pete Rose is scum, plain and simple. The man epitomizes everything I despise.

How dare I relish the fall of “Charlie Hustle,” you ask? How can I be so cold at heart to laugh when an American institution is brought to ruin as a result of an illness, shattered by fame, made a victim of the cruelty of the “system”? Spare me. Pete Rose is scum, plain and simple. The man epitomizes everything I despise. It is a sign of America’s potential for greatness that this man has been punished. You see, for me, and for several like me, Rose is the symbol of the gym teacher’s pet. He is not the kid who played hard and played fair for fun and for the love of the game. Rose and his crotch-scratching ilk stand for the self-serving bully with the intellectual skills of your average walnut, the home run hitting hero who stole your lunch money and then offered to let you keep half if you helped him cheat on the spelling test. In later years, this is the guy who got scholarships to college, in spite of his illiteracy, while smart kids without a dime were doomed to a life at the Stop and Go.

Continued on Page 8

IN TODAY'S LESSON, CLASS, WE EXPLORE THE INCREASING ISOLATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL IN SOCIETY.

Stifled Free Speech on Campus
By Jonathan D. Karl

Free speech is under attack on college campuses, and even its traditionally staunchest defenders have joined in the assault. Student journalists and free speech advocates are concerned about a proliferation of college speech codes so widespread that, according to Time magazine, “Nowhere is the First Amendment more imperiled than on college campuses.” As is often the case with censorship, these codes have been adopted with the best intentions. Campus racism is on the rise and something has to be done about it. So token measures are taken which exacerbate racial tensions and ignore the First Amendment.

Speech codes drafted in response to this important issue are dividing the American Civil Liberties Union, which has always tended toward an “absolute” position on free speech. While the Wisconsin and Michigan ACLU affiliates have sued their respective state universities over the codes, the northern and southern California affiliates adopted a resolution in July favoring narrowly drawn policies which prohibit harassing speech. John Powell, national legal director of the ACLU, asserts: “My concern is less with the strength of the First Amendment than with the wave of racial harassment that has swept the country. The campus is not under the threat of being silenced.” Defending their resolution, the California affiliates cite the legal need to balance the First Amendment against “conduct that interferes with the Fourteenth Amendment right of students to an equal education.” They argue that the resolution only advocates a ban on speech which is clearly harassing and that “hostile, even offensive speech in classroom debates and public discourse is something students must endure or challenge with speech of their own.”

Free speech proponents such as writer Nat Hentoff are not buying. Pointing out that cases brought under the codes will be heard by untrained college judicial panels, not civil libertarians or ACLU attorneys, Mr. Hentoff decries the inevitably vague nature of speech codes. “Most colleges whose ‘due process’ hearings I’ve covered are unshakably fond of the British Star Chamber model of the 17th century,” he remarks sarcastically. “Just the places to deal with these broad and vague restrictions on speech.” Rules which limit speech are only as good as those who enforce them. Eleanor Holmes Norton, President Carter’s chair of the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, explained this bitter reality: “It is technically impossible to write an anti-speech code that cannot be twisted against speech nobody means to bar. It has been tried and tried and tried.”

Indeed, speech codes have been defended by voices far less moderate than those of the ACLU’s California affiliates. At Stanford University, law professors provided the philosophical rationale for a new student conduct policy that one student sponsor candidly admitted, “is not entirely in line with the First Amendment.” ABA Journal, the publication of the American Bar Association, quotes Stanford Law Professor Mari Matsuda, who argues that traditional views of free speech act as a self-serving cover for continued domination by majority elites. In Orwellian fashion, advocates of the code argue that speech limitations would actually increase free speech and “vigorous debate.” Discriminatory speech, they reason, is meant to silence the victim. Such arguments are not only clearly opposed to First Amend-

Continued on Page 8