THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990

Questioning the Honor Code

THERESE GYAUCH '90

Four years ago, I used to drop my backpack on Chambers lawn, leave it there for several hours unattended, and return to find it and its contents intact. Four years ago, I kept all my textbooks in my carrel at the library. Four years ago, I could be confident that if I lost a book or other belonging somewhere on campus it would be turned into the Union Lost-and-Found or the Dean of Students Office. Not today. I have experienced four thefts of personal belongings in the last two years. This is a sad commentary on the Honor Code. As a senior, I am disillusioned. What has happened to the integrity of the Honor Code? Is the classroom the only arena in which students think they must apply the Honor Code? I believe that I am not the only person asking these questions.

Think about the number of signs you have seen this year in the college laundry asking people to return clothes that do not belong to them. (Certainly mistakes occur in clothes pick-up, but not as many as I think are evidenced by the signs.) What about the clothes that seem to disappear from the student laundry room in Watts, too? Can you name friends and classmates whose books have been stolen? I know three individuals who collectively have had over one hundred dollars of textbooks stolen.

I have experienced four thefts of personal belongings in the last two years. This is a sad commentary on the Honor Code.

Ask yourself why there seem to be so many more signs in the library than there were four years ago which remind students that it is an Honor Code violation to take books out of the library without checking them out.

There are those who will argue that part of the problem is the presence of more outsiders on the campus. The college and community do interface, and we cannot control visitors’ behavior. Still, we must not allow this fact to deter us from examining issues related to the Honor Code. In agreeing to attend Davidson College, students agreed to abide by the Honor Code. If this is not true, then why does our admissions office require every applicant to examine and write about our Honor Code as part of the application process? Many solutions to problems with the Honor Code depend directly on students and faculty. They must decide to present the Honor Code as a cornerstone of Davidson life.

I believe that the Honor Code still works in the classroom. I hope that I am not being naive. Personally, I have had no experiences which demonstrate that the integrity of the Honor Code there has collapsed. Still, I am concerned. The other day I heard a fifth-year senior mention that he had begun to hear about some professors choosing to proctor their reviews. Rumor? Perhaps. Is faculty’s trust waning? Is somebody suggesting that there are now reasons to wonder about how seriously students treat the Honor Code?

On a couple of occasions when I have simply forgotten to sign a pledge on assignments because I was hurried, it has bothered me that no comment or follow-up was initiated. Granted, I simply forgot because of my haste to turn in an assignment. But suppose that I had been trying to signal a professor that I needed to discuss a violation (my own or someone else's) but was scared to come forward? Unless the use of a pledge is practiced uniformly, does it really signify much? In some classes, students are not required to write out the full honor pledge on tests and assignments. Should this be the case? Four years ago, I would have argued, “No!” Today, I think writing “pledged” on work is insufficient. Students need to be reminded frequently of the full meaning and impact of the Honor Code. Asking students to write it on every assignment reinforces that Davidson College stands firm in its commitment.

Like myself, Dr. John Williamson (chairman of the biology department) expresses his concern that students are taking the Honor Code for granted these days. When asked to sign the full pledge to reviews this spring, many students could not write it. What does this say about our students? Does it say that there is a lack of emphasis on and a lack of visibility of the Honor Code? We must seek answers to these questions now. Finally, let me suggest that we also need to consider the Code of

Lucia Kendall - In Defense of the "Little Things"

I grew up in Pittsburgh during the years when the Steelers were winning Super Bowls. I remember very distinctly walking into my fifth-grade classroom on the day after the Steelers had won the 1978 Super Bowl and seeing a boy in my class named Kevin dancing around the room chanting “The Steelers are Great! Yeah! The Steelers are Great! Yeah!” He bounced over to a kid named Jimmy and said, “The Steelers are Great” as a prompt for Jimmy to say “Yeah!” But instead, Jimmy said “I guess so; I didn’t watch the game.” The look of complete and utter horror on Kevin’s face at that moment is something I will never forget. He was speechless. Finally, he recovered from the shock enough to exclaim, “How could you not watch the Steelers win the Super Bowl!” Hearing this, the entire class turned around to stare at Jimmy as if they had just found out that he had been selling our country’s defense secrets to the Russians. At this point I was getting a little nervous because I had not watched the game either. I had the feeling that there must be something inherently wrong with me that would cause me to commit such a heinous sin.

Looking back, I guess I shouldn’t be surprised at the depth to which the Steeler-love attitude had been instilled in Kevin. At school, we'd had “black and gold spirit days” in which all the kids would deck themselves out in the Steeler’s colors. We learned the Steeler Fight song (sung to the tune of the Pennsylvania Polka) in music class. There were billboards around the city praising the Steelers. People talked about the Steelers on the TV news and the radio. Discussions about the Steelers popped up frequently in conversation. People were known to sell their cars to buy tickets to go to the game. Kevin's room was plastered from floor to ceiling with posters of Mean Joe Greene and friends. His mother had bought him a Steelers bedspread, lampshade, and wastebasket.

and then have them reinforced, by our culture’s nudging us repeatedly, in numerous ways, throughout our lives. A little thing, such as being taught the Steeler fight song in music class, will not transform our values,But in combination with all the other little things, it will cumulatively change our attitudes about how valuable football is. Kevin would have said that loving football is normal. But a Spaniard would say the same about loving bullfights, an ancient Greek about loving javelin throwing, a Balinese about loving cockfights. All of these loves are determined by culture. I am not writing about Jimmy and Kevin merely to amuse you with charming anecdotes from my childhood. I am writing about them because there have been many times, in the past four years especially, that I have felt like Jimmy did when he did not endorse the values of the Steeler culture. I don’t see anything wrong with being a Steelers fan. It is one of the more harmless instances of cultural conditioning. But it is a result of cultural conditioning, as are many of the attitudes we hold. In order to evaluate our attitudes, we must first examine where they come from. What reinforces them throughout our lives? If we, like Kevin, merely absorb the conditioning without being aware of what it is doing to us, then it will be extremely difficult for us to break out of this mindset long enough to see what the mindset consists of and to recognize that we have developed it from a combination of outside sources, that it is not natural. 

Sexism results from innumerable forces which act on us the same way the pro-Steeler forces acted on Kevin. Responsibility in this discussion is an extension of the Honor Code, a further attempt to emphasize honesty and accountability in student lifestyles. “Borrowing” of bicycles to ride across campus and not returning them should not happen. Vandalism of streetlamps on Patterson Court should not happen. Reckless breaking of windows and appliances in the dorms should not happen. Think. Does any of this activity demonstrate mature, trustworthy behavior? Is good community encouraged by it? Who benefits by destroying property and showing disrespect to others? An Honor Code which extended throughout all campus life drew me to Davidson College. Today I believe its integrity is endangered. Now is the time to reexamine ourselves as individuals and as a community, or this college will lose an element of itself that has always distinguished it from other institutions.

His father taught him to play football in the backyard from the time he was a toddler and had taken him to see football games even before that. People commonly equated the Steeler’s winning a game with the demonstration of Pittsburghers' superiority over the rest of humanity. Such virtues as courage, dedication, hard work, heroism, and even family loyalty (for some reason “We are fam-a-lee,” as in the Pointer Sisters song, became a popular pro-Steeler chant) all found their ultimate expression on the football field. And because we were all so used to this fascination with football in general and the Steelers in particular, no one really questioned where the attitudes came from. Nobody said, “Hey, wait a minute, what are the reasons we value football?” Valuing athletic prowess is an example of how we absorb attitudes and values from our culture; attitudes are not isolated incidents. 

Sexist attitudes contribute to women losing their self-respect, to women bearing the brunt of poverty, to women’s over-dependence on men, to wife-beating, to women being under-valued, to women’s depression, to women being humiliated, to rape, to women working in menial jobs, to anorexia, to women being oppressed systematically and repeatedly. These incidents are the inevitable result of societal trends which prevent women from being valued, dehumanize women, and restrict women to narrow roles. We will not be able to get rid of these incidents until we get rid of their causes. Getting rid of the causes is problematic, however, because their causes are abstract attitudes. But I can’t fight against abstract attitudes; I can only fight against specific reinforcements of those abstract values. So I find things such as gender-exclusive language or evaluating women’s worth based on their appearance or statements that we don’t need to study women’s history because women haven't done much that’s important. And I try to fight against these specific things. But often other students say, “Oh, those are just little things, they don’t matter.” Many of them are little things, but they do matter because their cumulative effect is reinforcing the abstract values; just as my music class being taught the Steeler fight song was a little thing that was one of many little things which cumulatively reinforced an attitude that the Steelers were important.

Often, students can’t understand why all the anger I feel against all these forms of women’s oppression is directed at them just for hanging up a poster of a woman in a bikini. “It’s just a poster,” they say. “Don’t take it so seriously. It doesn’t make men go out and commit rapes.” But it, like so many other repeated “little things,” helps cause the attitudes that help cause rape, and so the end result is the same, only it is much more difficult to recognize. My frustration is intensified by living among students who do not question the sexist values because they are “normal.” We are all accustomed to them. We have grown up with them from the time we were given baby dolls if we were girls and Tonka trucks if we were boys. I feel like saying, “No! It’s all wrong! Our entire mentality is all wrong and we've got to do something to fix it!” 

But until we start challenging both the sexist attitudes that we've grown up with and all the “little things” that consistently and cumulatively reinforce them, the big things won't change. If I have focused too much of my anger about attitudes on particular situations, that was not my intent. But I’m asking you to try to understand where this anger comes from, to try to be aware of the “little things” that bring about the attitudes that hurt women, and to make some effort to change them.

Therese M. Gyauch is a senior Interdisciplinary Communications major from Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

Recycle this Davidsonian.