Wednesday, March 7, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Where credit is due

In the last issue of The Davidsonian, the following photos were run with incorrect credits. We have reprinted them here with the corrections because they are so fine (and to fill extra space). Our apologies for the mix-up.

Photo by Jane Mount

ADS, from front page

violence and sexual harassment against women. She used an example shown in a magazine was an ad with a corpse in a garbage, with only her voluptuous legs with high heels protruding out, creating a sense of acceptance and callousness towards violence. When we turn the body into an object, Kilbourne says, violence is the outcome.

If a real change in the sexist orientation of advertising is to be made, Kilbourne points out that it depends on the awareness and education of the public. Popular images in ads and their impact on society’s perception of women and sex are detrimental to a progressive attitude hopeful for realizing the necessity for the equality of the sexes. While maybe “You've come a long way, Baby,” you still have a long way to go.

CRAMMING FOR EXAMS?

Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. ©1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

IT’S TIME FOR DOMINO’S PIZZA®

Call Us! 896-8007 Shops on the Green Hours: 4:30pm-1am Sun.-Thurs. 4:30pm-2am Fri. & Sat.

Lunch Break
Medium 2-topping Pizza $1 OFF
ONLY $6 tax included Present this coupon to receive $1 OFF
Present this coupon to receive ONE 12" any Pan or Original pizza.
2-topping Pizza for $6 tax included This offer is not valid with Doubles.
from 11am to 4pm

Offer good through 3/31/90

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.

Photo by Ted Richanisan

1990 SUMMER SCHOOL PROGRAM
Session I: May 21-June 26
Session II: June 28-August 3

Fees and Tuition per Session: NC Resident Nonresident
Undergraduate: $100 plus $25 per credit hour $200 per credit hour
Graduate: $100 plus $35 per credit hour $210 per credit hour

Please send me a catalog and application form:
Name
Street
City
State Zip

UNC-CH offers, during two 5 1/2 week sessions, one of the largest summer programs in the United States. The normal load per session is two classes of three semester hours each. Students from any college or university, teachers, rising high school seniors and others who are not enrolled at UNC-CH may apply as Visiting Summer Students.

Mail to: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Summer School, CB #3240, 200 Pettigrew Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3340. Phone: (919) 962-1009.

JUMP BACK, from page 5

special edition in The Davidsonian’s last ‘89-’90 edition. For those of you who wish to support Democratic reform in Eastern Europe, the search for the mailing address of Czechoslovakia’s “Friends of Beer” political party is still in the works: Senator Terry Sanford’s office has Fran Fierro ’91 hot on the trail. To this point, Fran and I have both had a great deal of difficulty establishing credibility with anyone we ask for the address of a political party pushing beer consumption. I was laughed at by a confused employee of the Czech embassy in Washington, who claimed “Beer is beer--it isn’t a political issue.” This column is written out of the concern that, in a quest for quantities of beer, students too often overlook the quality.