THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

Davidson and the World: The Middle East Crisis

Photo courtesy of Wallace Sanders
Sophomore Wallace Sanders visits the Shefat refugee camp during an internship program with the Arab Red Cross in Egypt.

Student Spends Summer Near Troubled Area:
Dean Rusk Program Holds Forum on Foreign Policy

By MIKA NABESHIMA

Held on August 27 in the Carolina Inn, the first Dean Rusk Program Foreign Policy Forum was a great success.
Participants included Economics professor Dennis Appleyard, Spanish professor Lois Kemp, Political Science professor Louis Ortmayer, College Relations director Bill Giduz,
and about thirty students. Ambassador Jack Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program, expressed his hope that this forum will
become a regular opportunity to discuss current foreign policy issues.

The dialogue was dominated by discussion of the current Middle East crisis. Students expressed their concern about the danger inherent
in increased military presence in the area, the effect of a long-term military involvement of the United States, and the
relationship between Americans and Arabs. Other topics discussed included the possible loss of lives (American, Arab, and other), the rise
in oil prices and the possible resulting energy crisis, conservation, and the future of American policy in the Middle East.
Rami El-Amine, a junior international student from Lebanon, recommended a revision of U.S. policy. He suggested that it be not
only centered around Israel but also encompassing the Arab world.

The forum plans to meet once a month. The next program on September 25 will be a panel discussion on
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Participants on the panel will include Molly Graver, who spent last semester in Israel, and Wallace Sanders,
who interned at the Palestinian Red Crescent Society in Egypt and the West Bank this past summer.

If you wish to attend the next forum, contact Ann Hicks at -6601 or the Dean Rusk Program at -2440
for further information or to offer suggestions for future forum topics.

Recycle This Davidsonian

"It's Difficult to Imagine Until You See For Yourself"

By LISA GERRARD

Life is tough in the occupied territories of Israel’s West Bank and Gaza Strip, says Wallace Sanders, a sophomore who
recently visited the region. Palestinian children play in the dirt streets behind billows of tear gas. Their favorite game is
throwing rocks at Israeli soldiers. Prisons are overcrowded. Health care is substandard. And the threat of deportation looms ever near.

The American public hears little of what goes on behind the wire fences of Palestinian camps, since Israel banned the
press from these territories in 1988. Sanders was able to visit the area through a human rights agency in Jerusalem.
His seven-day tour revealed volatile neighborhoods where abuse and anger live side by side.

“We visited one home and were gassed twice over a period of four hours,” he said. “It seems the Israeli
soldiers will throw tear gas for no reason--it’s almost as if it’s part of their military training to fire on
the people’s homes.”

The tour of the West Bank and Gaza Strip was a side-trip Sanders took in August after completing a two-month
internship sponsored by Washington’s National Council on U.S.-Arab Relations. His duties were to help out in any way he could
at a hospital for Palestinian refugees in Cairo.

On his first day, Sanders was surprised to learn that his boss was Yassir Arafat’s younger brother, Fathi Arafat. Fathi
is director of the hospital and president of the Palestine Red Crescent Society--an affiliate of the International Committee of the
Red Cross. At the hospital, Sanders worked on a video for the hospital and taught English. His students were two
paraplegic men from Gaza who had broken the 9 p.m. curfew and were shot by Israeli soldiers with bullets called
‘dum-dums.’ The term ‘plastic’ or ‘rubber’ bullet is really a euphemism. Some rubber bullets are simply steel ball bearings with
a thin rubber coat,” Sanders said. “Under 50 yards, all of these bullets are as lethal as regular bullets.”as live
ammo—especially when used against children or fired like grapeshot from a grenade launcher,” he said. Israel has occupied the West
Bank and Gaza Strip since 1967. The 1.8 million Palestinians who have chosen to remain there live in squalid conditions.
“Although I'd been talking to Palestinians for five weeks, I didn’t realize until then just how much day-to-day life is
disrupted and made unbearable,” said Sanders. “It’s difficult to imagine until you see for yourself.”

Sanders saw families of eight or more sharing a single dorm-size room. He saw bathrooms that were nothing but holes
in the ground. He saw that to be “well-off” in the camps means having carpets and sofas and being able
to eat well. Close to 12,000 ordinances dictate the lives of the Palestinians: from frustrating to ridiculous, the rules require
them to stay in their homes every night after 9 p.m.

“The ‘intifada’ is a desperate appeal on the global stage for the world to stop talking about peace and start
acting,” said Sanders. “Unfortunately, events in the Gulf will probably eclipse this issue rather than giving it the attention it
deserves,” he said. "As time passes, more and more Palestinians lose faith in a diplomatic solution—and it’s difficult to tell
a people to wait when they face escalating death tolls and encroachment on their land.”

To preserve the West Bank and Gaza Strip and protect settlers who have moved there, Israel dips from the $2.4
billion in military aid that the U.S. government allocates them. Sanders recounted the story of a ten-year-old boy who had
been caught throwing rocks at Israeli soldiers. The boy said that a soldier approached him afterward and asked which arm
he had used to throw the rocks. When the boy told him the left arm, the soldier broke it.

One day Sanders was walking down a street in a Palestinian camp when a tear gas canister exploded on the
next block. He ran to investigate. The smoke had engulfed the room of one small house where Sanders could see
a woman and her ten children. A child on the street picked up the canister and showed it to the
American. It read: “TEAR GAS TYPE CS515—MADE IN THE USA.” “How can your country do this to us?” the mother
asked. Sanders could not form a response.

But now he has found his voice: “I want people to know what’s going on in the territories,” he said.
“Complacency on human rights issues can be considered complicity in human rights violations,” said Sanders. “Americans should hold our leaders
accountable for their foreign policy, then we can more justly hold other world leaders accountable for their actions.”

One of the harshest laws is that they must have an identity card to work outside the territories. And authorities
take cards away at the slightest provocation, Sanders said. “Students realized the futility of going to school when they saw
their fathers who were doctors or engineers sweeping hospital floors and carrying bricks in Israel,” he said.

The United States supports Israel in its Palestinian policy. The strong-arm tactics are part of Israel’s measures to combat the
“intifada,” or uprising of the Palestinian Liberation Organization. Sanders sympathizes with Israeli interests, but his trip made him wonder at
the justice of American aid. “The U.S. government reacts with moral indignation when our national interests are crossed, but often
turns a blind eye to the actions of our allies,” he said.

He remembers several occasions of seemingly indiscriminate use of tear gas in the territories, and he cannot forget the stories
of his Palestinian friends who spoke of abuse in the camps and in prisons. Sanders talked to one ten-year-old boy
who had been caught throwing rocks at Israeli soldiers. The boy said that a soldier approached him afterward and asked
which arm he had used to throw the rocks. When the boy told him the left arm, the soldier broke
it.

THE HAIR WORK SHOP AND TANNING SALON
Tanning Specials Available
Ask For Linda
20823 N. Main St.
Cornelius, N.C. 28031
Phone (704) 892-5170
Hours: 8:30 A.M. - 9:30 P.M.

STUDENT JOB
Are You Worth More Than $5 an Hour?
National Retail Firm Has Several Openings
All Majors May Apply
Will Train If Qualified
College Scholarship and Credit Available
Call (704) 563-5239
