Burns gets feedback! page 8

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 13

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, January 24, 1990

Former mayor Gantt gives praise and advice

NC senatorial candidate tells 11th Hour audience to carry on King’s work

By JAY CHAUDHURI

Harvey Gantt, former mayor of Charlotte and prospective senatorial candidate for North Carolina, spoke for Eleventh Hour last Thursday.

In recognizing Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday that week, Gantt elected to speak on “Black Americans and their place in
this country.”

In celebrating the past, Gantt said that as a youngster he had heard stories of ordinary black men and women
who displayed courage and heroism. It is their accomplishments that Gantt remembers most vividly.

“They had to be mentally tough, physically strong, and believed in something beyond themselves,” said Gantt. “The fact is, we’ve
survived slavery and that is to be celebrated. We had very little in formal education yet we’ve done well. And
there’s a lot to celebrate, especially the daily struggle of ordinary citizens.”

In this respect, Gantt wanted to remember King not as a martyr or for his great speeches, but rather “as
a man, a human being, an ordinary middle-class folk, an individual who moved millions of people.”

However, according to Gantt, problems still exist in black America. “While we've come a long way, there’s a lot of
things we need to do,” he said. “We’ve come a long way in eliminating the vestiges of second-class citizenship, but
there is reason to be concerned even at the height of economic and political power.”

These dilemmas can be traced to “the swing of the political pendulum.” Currently, said Gantt, the pendulum is swinging to
the right, fueled by the religious right.

The way to counter this “swing” will require the participation of African-Americans. “We need to find a way of linking
the middle and upper-class intelligentsia blacks with the lower class,” proposed Gantt.

Racial problems also exist because there is not enough honest discussion between the races. This has resulted in “a growing
gap between the whites and blacks,” he said.

The solution to these racial tensions should be a total community effort; however, the real responsibility lies with black Americans,
said Gantt. “There is a need for black America not to forget their roots, especially those who are moving up,”
he said.

Gantt then went on to cite an example, saying that an educated, affluent lawyer should tutor someone in church rather
than play golf. It is this kind of attitude that is needed to bridge the gap among the races, said
Gantt.

“We have to make that effort. We have to be leaders in that process and in devising government and public
policy,” he concluded.

Although Gantt hasn’t officially announced his candidacy for the Senate position, he is “deep in deliberations and close to doing
it.”

High tech computer classroom hits campus

New computers will ease shortage

By: SU

A new computer facilities room recently opened on the third floor of Chambers. The installation of 21 student IBM-55 terminals
and one instructor terminal marks a new development for Davidson College. Now professors from any department will be able to
use computers as an integral part of their lessons.

The computers were installed to meet the needs of instructors. Assistant Director of Academic Computing Sue Varga-Ward said, “The faculty
needs to have a facility to share ideas with students in an electronic environment.” All of the IBMs are currently
hooked up to the network. This network enables computers to share data.

The instructor terminal allows the professor to access data from any student’s screen. “Instead of walking around the room and
looking over shoulders,” said Varga-Ward, “the professor can call up any student's screen on his or her terminal. The professor
can then see where the problem is and cause an answer or suggestion to appear on the student's screen.” In
addition, the professor can send one student’s screen to everyone or display a screen on the overhead projector.

The computer room will be closed to students during the day in order to allow professors flexibility in using the
room. Professors can either schedule their classes in the room for an entire term, use the room on an irregular
basis, or bring their students in on the spur of the moment. The computer center has sponsored demonstration classes for
professors throughout the term to encourage the room’s use. Networks to individual offices and other buildings is a long-term option.

Students are allowed to independently use the room from 5 to 11 each night. There will be a student assistant
in the room as well as several computer service manuals.

Inside

“Toto, I don’t think we're in Davidson anymore!”

Students return from exotic semesters abroad with fascinating stories and photos (see page 4). Pictured here, a rather shabby group
of JYAers pose in front of India’s grand Taj Mahal.

Photo courtesy of Jay Wiley
