THE DAVIDSONIAN  
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990  

J. JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief  
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor  
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor  
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor  
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor  
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor  
TRENT STEVENS, News Editor  
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor  
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor  
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor  
HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor  
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor  
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor  
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor  
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor  
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor  
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor  
PETER FISHER, Production Manager  
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager  
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager  

The Davidsonian  
Founded in 1914  

BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager  
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager  
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager  

No Directory This Year  

Amid all the hullabaloo over printing the phone directory in the first issue of the Davidsonian, staff members and weary desk workers neglected to ask if this request was feasible. They simply assumed it was. Primarily, the newspaper prints the news; while printing the directory is the job of the window dressers at college relations. Secondly, the computer center could easily print several hundred directories on computer paper and distribute them among the halls and buildings. At what cost? It seems the cost would be minimal, especially if compared in direct proportion with the present incessant griping and moaning of the masses. There is, of course, the argument that there is a great deal of information that is not available or needs changing. With this in mind, a tentative printing would appease our college family, at least until the true directories issue forth in October. Otherwise, there seem to be three options at hand: call the Union desk, visit your friends instead of call, or put a cork in it.  

Davidson and —  

TO STOP IRAQ, WE MUST SACRIFICE. I WILL NOT ASK THE IMPOSSIBLE — TO CARPOOL, TAKE PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION, OR TURN DOWN THE A.C. — NO. I'LL JUST ASK... FOR YOUR SONS.  

Opinions  

Jarred Baxter and the SGA  

Student Awareness of SGA Needed  

Most Davidson students really don’t know or care much about the S.G.A. What’s worse, they don’t even care to know about their student government. So I asked myself, “Self, why is this?” Any political scientist would retort that this is simply a case of apathy within the masses, a phenomenon present within all political systems. But the proletariat here at Davidson? I would think that a learning institution of Davidson’s stature and reputation would admit students of a higher conscientious level than that of a plebeian. Yet student apathy runs rampant through our majestic halls. I want to help change this. My column will inform students about what’s going on in the S.G.A. on a weekly basis. As I see it, the main purpose of this column is to raise student awareness of the workings and duties of the S.G.A. What does that include? Well, as Tripp Helms put it, “every aspect” of student life. I want to explain how the S.G.A. works and how students can take an active part in it. Once a week I’ll choose an issue that the S.G.A. dealt with, or needs to reform. The B.S.C. have been continuing to push for. I think most students care about the alcohol policy situation and want to have their say. Good! Get out there and say it. Let the faculty and the administration know how you feel! But the alcohol policy isn’t everything, and as I see it, it is much more important to try to strip the campus clean of all racism, that goes for color, nationality, and gender. Other issues that I feel strongly about and will be discussing in later issues include: raising the...Level of rape awareness, especially acquaintance rape; how to implement minus grades; the construction of kiosks; campus security; semester length; athletics; cable TV, and parking. The final purpose of this column will be to let students know what their representatives are doing. If a senator is worthy of praise, he/she will be praised. But if I feel a senator is not representing his/her constituency, I'll certainly let you know about that as well. If you’re a Freshman reading this article, I'd like to apologize if you didn’t understand everything that was said. I wrote this under the premise that those reading it would have at least some knowledge of the S.G.A. Perhaps this column will be most beneficial to you. If you think that student government is organizing dances and changing the marquis, you have a lot to learn.

Davidson began another new semester a few weeks ago in a world on the brink of war. Yet, we here have been mostly quiescent during a time the “draft” could be a grave reality. Instead, we have opted to play frisbee in front of Chambers with our friends or ponder courses to pick up during drop-add. If the general apathy found on campus reflects our ignorance, then the college is to blame somewhat. Aside from a course or two taught on Islamic society and religion, Davidson clearly lacks a curriculum in the area of the Middle East. The crisis today stems beyond just the invasion of Kuwait and cheap oil; it involves the understanding of geopolitics, history, and culture. If Davidson wants to truly adhere to its title as a liberal arts college, it should hire new faculty members in an area that currently affects all our lives.

All Letters to the Editor may be dropped off at the Davidsonian Office or mailed to: P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Call David at x6615 or David at x6569.

There are many, many issues and I’m sure at least some of them will concern even the most uninterested of Davidson’s students. The big issues this year will be the possibly-changing alcohol policy and the level of rape awareness, especially acquaintance rape. How many out there have dreamed of being published? How many have opinions? If you answered yes to the preceding questions, then The Davidsonian has a place for you. By removing traditional impediments to publication, such as talent and coherent thought, the Opinions section embraces all frustrated writers, from the very good to the possibly demented. Everyone knows that good solid journalism is the death of any student publication, so we’re here for you. The Opinions section provides a ready-mix forum for new ideas (or rehashed dogmatism, we’ll print it). Look around. Examine your fellows, your school, yourself, and write us a note. If you’re stuck for ideas, here’s a few to ponder: alcohol, racism, Helms, Iraq (east of here), girls, guys, stupid fashion trends, the plethora of freshmen, the crying need for a campus bomb shelter and gas attack survival training, animal rights (we have labs), those damn painful pitted and cemented shower floors in the older dorms, and there’s always good old reliable South Africa. Just write! You’ve got what it takes (an attitude) so vilify the trustees or praise Ronald Reagan on us. Why not? Besides, we have an ace up our sleeves. If submissions drag, Mark Puckett (the man who offended us so much we made him an editor) has volunteered to serve as a space filler. Yikes! You can almost hear the Opinions Staff Meeting, Monday at 8 p.m. in the Union TV Lounge.