THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

Photo Courtesy of Clay Adams

Seniors Toby Truog, Curt Perkins, Clay Adams, Fred Burrell (left to right) and Doug Gibson (bottom) are heading this year's
Hobart Park.

Hobart Park to Have New Format

By DOUG GIBSON

A few years back, Davidson student Michael Jarmon decided to resuscitate Hobart Park, a student literary magazine which had folded
a few years earlier. In the magazine’s first year, he concentrated on establishing a high-quality publication in which the best
of Davidson’s student poetry, fiction, and art could find an audience among the other members of the Davidson community. Later
editors have continued to work towards this goal and have continued to produce a magazine which showcases the work of
talented students.

This year, the editors of Hobart Park plan to take the next step up from the foundation earlier editors have
built. Under the leadership of Clay Adams, Curt Perkins, and Toby Truog, the once annual publication hopes to become semi-annual
in a new format less like its earlier chapbook form and more like a magazine.

Senior English major Clay Adams will mainly control the practical side of the magazine’s production. He will, as he puts
it, “make sure that the magazine works.” After his experience with his high school literary magazine and with his knowledge
of the student magazines which other schools produce, he feels that Davidson will be “able to produce a magazine of
exceptional quality.”

“We are aiming for a magazine which will include all aspects of campus life, a magazine which will present a
more well-rounded view of Davidson and provide more outlets of expression,” he says. In order to do this, Clay hopes
to broaden Hobart Park’s financial base as well as the range of its submissions. At this point, the magazine depends
on a grant from the Activities Tax Council, but the staff wants to solicit sponsors and take on advertisers to
supplement this grant.

Clay, Curt, and Toby are concentrating on producing a retrospective edition which will highlight some of the best work Hobart
Park has published in an attempt to show prospective sponsors the quality of work which the Davidson community can produce.

In his role as literary editor, senior French major Curt Perkins plans to widen the range of submissions in order
to best showcase this quality. As he sees it, his job will be to ensure that there is more community
representation. “I want to have a magazine which is not just for English majors but also for foreign language majors,
art majors... not just for literature, either -- there should be room for quality writing of all kinds. We also
want to have faculty submissions.”

He insists that this is not the last step in Hobart Park’s evolution: “our ultimate future goal would be to
produce a magazine which would replace the Miscellany [Davidson’s now defunct national magazine]. A few years from now, we might
be on the level of the Sewanee Review, or the Alleghany Review.”

Toby Truog, a senior Art History major, will deal with the visual arts’ place in Hobart Park. Like his co-workers
on the magazine, he wants to broaden the magazine’s scope. He also sees a role for the magazine to play
in the arts community.

New Book Examines Link Between Peruvian Drug Trade and Terrorism

Courtesy of College Relations

A new book by Gabriela Tarazona-Sevillano examines one of the most dangerous alliances in the world today--the link between Peru’s
radical Sendero Luminoso terrorist group and the cocaine trade. Terrorism in South America is far more prevalent than in the
Mideast or any other area of the world, and the unholy alliance between terrorist groups and drugs is making the
situation desperate for the governments of the region. It also represents a major, though relatively little-known and understood, threat to
the United States.

Tarazona-Sevillano, visiting professor of International Studies, says that Sendero Luminoso’s embrace of drugs as a means of financing its revolution
could doom the struggling democracy in Peru and even spread throughout the rest of South America. She has been invited
to speak about her findings on a panel at an upcoming American Bar Association conference on “Strengthening the Rule of
Law in the War Against Drugs and Narcoterrorism.” The conference,which will be held on October 11 and 12 in Washington,
D.C., will attract some of the nation’s top legal, law enforcement, and national security experts. Tarazona-Sevillano will participate in a
panel on “Rule of Law as Target,” speaking about Sendero Luminoso’s terrorism in Peru. Her book is called *Sendero Luminoso
and the Threat of Narcoterrorism*. It was published recently by Praeger in New York, with the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, D.C. But the real basis of her knowledge is her two years of personal experience as
a criminal affairs prosecutor of the Public Ministry in the Peruvian judicial system. From 1984 to 1986, that post brought
her face-to-face with Sendero Luminoso members and drug traffickers daily. Sendero Luminoso controls the world’s largest cocaine-producing region, the Upper
Huallaga Valley in Peru. More than half the coca grown worldwide comes from this temperate 400,000-acre area on the east
slope of the Andes Mountains. The amount of land sown in coca is about equal to that devoted to all
other crops in the country, according to the author. Tarazona-Sevillano estimates that the two or more crops annually harvested from
the region and processed into cocaine are sold on world markets for about $28 billion. International traffickers and traffickers inside
Peru receive more than 99 percent of that cash. Less than one percent goes to the peasants who grow coca;
Sendero Luminoso gets tens of millions of dollars annually from its association with the trade. Though the crops are visible
from the road and air, the government is powerless to eradicate them. Tarazona-Sevillano pointed to several different inhibitors, including the
division of enforcement responsibility between the police (drugs) and the military (terrorism). The fusion of the two illegal activities has
not led to similar cooperation between the two branches of law enforcement. Another problem is a lack of alternatives for
area peasants. “Sendero Luminoso has definitely won the hearts and minds of the peasants in the Huallaga Valley,” said Tarazona-Sevillano.
Though their percentage of the profits is tiny, it is still more than they can earn on legitimate crops. Sendero
Luminoso positions itself as the “protectors” of the coca-growing peasants, fighting the police and military who try to eradicate it.
Yet the government fails to implement a crop substitution program that may lure peasants away from growing coca. Even though
it is the largest cocaine-producing nation, Tarazona-Sevillano said the problems in Peru have been overshadowed in the drug war by
those in Colombia. That changed somewhat after the recent drug summit in Cartagena, Colombia, where the U.S. approved a $36
million aid package for Peru. However, the author

Strickland Continued from Page 1

great.” This student chose not to prosecute; yet, her report educated the administration and taught it a lesson in sensitivity
and awareness. “We want to know,” says Marsicano. “A report allows us to provide support services to the victim and
educate the campus. It might even substantiate another victim’s charge.” Davidson students are not only the victims but are also
the perpetrators of acquaintance rape. In an anonymous interview, a Davidson student tells how he raped a student in his
dorm room after a Patterson Court party. The rape went unreported. “We were both really drunk, and she said ‘No,’
and I kept coaxing her, and finally she didn’t say no anymore—just laid there. I thought she had given in.
Eventually, we became friends, and the next thing I know we’re talking, and she says something like, ‘Oh yeah, the
night you raped me.’ What? That’s not what happened—not in my mind. I didn’t, I didn’t think I had,” he
recounts. “Next she asks me, ‘How would you feel if someone did that to your sister?’” A poster that he
noticed in Chambers brought home to him the truth about his actions. “I did rape her,” he confesses. “I hate
thinking about it. I hate thinking that I did that to someone. I’m probably the only guy who will say
this, and I know it’s really hard to stop once things get going—but I don’t care if you’re both completely
naked: no is no,” he says.
