10 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

Rob Kelley | Inside Charlotte

Where Do They Come From? A Look at Queens College

The looks on their faces said it all. “You're going where?” I knew the image well. The Queenie: a large-haired
socialite, usually found stumbling around outside courthouses late on the weekends, with eight or ten Davidson guys drooling after her
because Davidson women are, as one Davidsonian editor said, “smart but homely.”

“It’s a quest,” I said. “The Quest for Queens College. Think about it. We always see these girls around here.
Where do they come from? What hole in the ground do they all call home? Well, I’m gonna find it--and
give directions.”

Located deep within Charlotte’s affluent Myers Park district, Queens College sits within a virtual forest of oak trees. Clean brick
buildings with broad white trim sit quietly beneath the foliage, and thin strips of grass and sand snake between foundations.
Walking around, I saw none of the type of woman typically known as a Queenie. What I saw were men,
surprising amounts of them, each striding casually across a tiny green courtyard to different destinations, wearing rough gray sweatshirts and
carrying well-worn textbooks. Strangely, even of the women walking around, I saw none who fit the Queenie mold.

Queens College went co-ed in the fall of 1988. That year, they had three transfers. Now, of 874 students in
the School of Arts and Sciences, 18 percent of them are men. Moreover, this year’s incoming class was 36 percent
male. The old image of the Queens student--the Queenie--is no longer applicable. The presence of men has changed the former
girls’ school drastically. Speaking of the change, Senior Sharon Taylor, 21, said, “It was hard at first. We’ve lost a
lot of tradition. It’s hurt a lot of upperclassmen who’ve seen the changes.” Another speaker said of the new men,
“They’re just regular guys. They’ve started a soccer team this year [3-3 in their first season], and they have their
own fraternity [Pi Kappa Psi].”

“You really don’t want to use the word Queenie around them,” she added.

With the new men arriving at Queens, what is Davidson’s role in the Queens students' lives? “It’s [Davidson’s role] a
changing one,” Taylor said. “The underclassmen don’t go up to Davidson as much as the upperclassmen. The upperclassmen still have
friends up there.” Not female friends, however. The attitude Davidson women have toward Queens is well known. One Queens student,
requesting anonymity, said, “They weren’t too receptive.”

These changes have certainly made Queens a different school. But would Davidson students want to visit there as much as
a few of them visit us? I’d have to say no. Queens College has many drawbacks. First, while the college
boasts over 874 students, approximately half of these commute. At nights and weekends, the school would be a much emptier
place. Secondly, Queens’ alcohol policy, while not very different from Davidson’s own, is actually enforced. People under 21 do not
drink. Not in the houses, not in the dorms, not in their rooms, nowhere. Taylor described the situation: “My friends
had a birthday party for me in my dorm when I turned 21, and we got in trouble because some
people were drinking underage.”

While I don’t think this obstacle stops the men and women of Queens from having a good time, I’ve noticed
that Davidson’s students have a strong predisposition toward alcohol. I doubt most of them could have a good time without
it. Still, Queens College is not such a...bad place (though a few of their students do have a propensity to
come up, and a few of them seem to enjoy “blowing chunks” in our bushes). If you could get a
big group together, comprised of both guys and girls, all equipped with open minds and a good sense of the
ludicrous—well, then, Davidson’s First Annual Roadtrip Reggae Party at Queens? Pfeiffer? Yale?

To get to Queens, travel I-77 south to Brookshire South. Take the Highway 16 exit. Make a U-turn at the
bottom of the exit, bear left at the next right, and continue straight for about two miles. The road will
change names from 3rd Street to Providence. You pass an intersection with a huge granite church on the far left,
a small library on the right, and a forest behind. Go straight; you’re on Queens Rd. The road will fork
at another church. Bear right, and the entrance will be about three blocks ahead on your right, between Radcliffe Ave.
and Wellesley. To get out, retrace your steps carefully. Some people may tell you just to follow the road around.
DO NOT LISTEN. That way lies madness.

Get Evrae Involved! Live, Learn And Intern In Washington, D.C. This Summer

The Institute On Comparative Political And Economic Systems
The Institute On Political Journalism
The Bryce Harlow Institute On Business And Government Affairs
Georgetown University
June 7-July 20, 1991

If you are an undergraduate student with a strong interest in political science, international relations, journalism, or business, you will
want to apply to one of these unique six-week programs. Numerous scholarships are available. While living on the campus of
Georgetown University, you will:
* Attend two classes at Georgetown University. Taught by Georgetown University faculty, students earn six credit hours for coursework.
* Intern on Capitol Hill, government offices, private sector organizations, news bureaus, or press offices.
* Attend weekly lectures with foreign policy experts, noted journalists, or government affairs professionals.
* Meet and question national leaders at on-site briefings at various Washington, D.C. locations.

For more information, contact The Fund for American Studies, 10 NW, Suite 401, Washington, D.C. 20036; (202)

How To Economically Maximize A Study Break:
1. Take a friend and this ad. Go to Norman Crossing Shopping Center at Exit 28 off I-77. Very close
by.
2. Order any SUBWAY sandwich. You'll get a free 16 oz. drink. Satisfy hunger.
3. Take your receipt and your free play coupon below next door to HOT SHOT. Relax and play a few
games.

Offer good thru August 31, 1990

Good for 1 free 16 oz. drink with purchase of any sandwich. Value 50¢
Good for 2 free plays

Filled bike racks, orange recycling bins, less and less styrofoam. What does it all mean? Davidson is finally moving from
environmental awareness to environmental action! All around us we see evidence of this shift. The Adopt-A-Highway clean-up is a success.
Fraternities have held parties where aluminum cans were used instead of kegs to reduce the usage of plastic and styrofoam
cups. The laundry service has also been active in recycling their coat hangers. In the days ahead, Davidson Environmental Action
will be providing more opportunities for the Davidson student to be a hero.

By Sara Sadowski and Marey White
