The Davidsonian
Wednesday, February 7, 1990

The drive and determination is evident on Darry Strickland’s face as he makes his way past a UNC Asheville player.

‘Cats’ away games unlucky
By JOHN BURNS

Continuing a season in which they have beaten no Division I opponents, the Davidson basketball team dropped three games this week. They head into Thursday’s game at Furman with a 2-18 record.

UNC-Asheville 61 - Davidson 58
The Cats led this one all night but gave it up at the buzzer. Davidson held off the Asheville attack with hot shooting by Alan Hunter (20 points). The game was nip and tuck all the way to the end. With near one minute left, Hunter hit a three-pointer and was fouled. He failed to convert on the four-point play, but the amazing shot got the crowd riled up and seemed to give the momentum to the Cats. Both teams hit two foul shots near the end of the game. With the score tied at 58, UNC-A went to the line and hit the first of a one-and-one. The shooter missed the second shot with eight seconds left and Cat hopes soared. While the hopes were soaring, someone forgot to block out UNC-A’s leading scorer, who tipped in the rebound. The clock ran out before AJ Morgan’s desperation shot missed.

Campbell 66 - Davidson 56
The Camels (9-10) hosted Davidson for a rematch of the worst game Davidson played this season. The Cats came ready to play and led until the final moments of the second half, when Campbell’s Brad Childress hit a three-point shot to break a tie and Campbell went on to win. The teams traded the lead seven times during the second half before the Camels finally put Davidson away. Detlef Musch led the Cats with 17 points. Denmond had 13.

The Citadel 76 - Davidson 66
The cadets of The Citadel came back in the second half (surprise) to beat Davidson in Charleston Monday night. The Citadel’s Patrick Elmore wasted the Wildcat front line.

See BASKETBALL, page 6

Photo by Ed Matthews.

The real reasons why “Magic” Gaines no longer plays for Davidson basketball
By GIGGY MAXWELL

On Wednesday, January 17, 1990, the Davidson Wildcat basketball team departed on a bus for its game the following evening against UNC Wilmington. For the first time in three and a half seasons, forward Edward “Magic” Gaines was not on the bus. Rumors spread quickly over the following days that Gaines had quit the team. Everyone interested in Wildcat basketball began speculating as to the reasons for his departure, and, until this time, that is what it has remained - speculation.

“It’s difficult for a person on the outside looking in to fully understand why I left the team,” Gaines said. “What they see is that the team is struggling, my scoring and rebounding are decreasing along with my playing time, and when they add that up they think I quit on the team — gave up when things weren’t going my way.”

IMACtion
“I can understand why people would think that but it’s simply not true. What happened was that I had, unfortunately, lost the drive, physically and mentally, to tie up my laces day in and day out. The fire wasn’t there anymore and it wasn’t fair to my teammates, the coaching staff, the fans or myself, if I couldn’t go out there every day and compete the way I had. I realized that...I had gotten everything out of basketball that I could. I didn’t quit on the team, I just simply retired from basketball.” About the supposed conflicts between Gaines and Coach McKillop? “I have nothing but the utmost respect for Coach McKillop. I think he’s a fantastic person as well as a great coach. He deserves a lot more victories than we’ve given him. I guess that rumor started as a result of my strained relationship with (former) Coach Hussey. But Coach McKillop and I had no problems with each other. He understood that I was just trying to do what was best for Edward Gaines.” 

What about the high expectations for the basketball court that had followed Gaines to Davidson and had not been fulfilled? “You always set goals for yourself in life, some you reach and some you don’t. Hopefully, you attain more than you don’t.” 

“As far as basketball was concerned I just wanted us to have a winning program and have a shot every year at postseason play. I didn’t look at personal statistics as a barometer for measuring how the basketball seasons went. Obviously, it would be nice to be the number one guy, but that’s not always going to happen.” 

“Others can judge me, if they want, by my scoring or rebounding but for myself and everyone on the team, winning ball games was our goal.” 

Will Gaines ever regret the decision, say, five years down the road? “I don’t think I’ll ever regret the decision. You’re always going to look back on things you do in life and wonder ‘What if?’ but I’ve come to realize, and I hope others will too, that I’m more than ‘Magic’ Gaines the basketball player. I’m Edward Gaines, trying to become a complete person, and while basketball played a large part in shaping me, it is by no means all that I have to offer.” 

For some, even these explanations will not be enough to convince them that Gaines’s decision was not selfishly motivated. But for Gaines, the time was right to hang up his high tops. While Wildcat fans will no longer have the pleasure of viewing “Magic” Gaines on the basketball court, they still have the opportunity to know Edward Gaines the complete person. And that’s what Davidson is supposed to do anyway, isn’t it? Make us complete people...

The true Bud Bowl results, more IMAC castes
By QUINN McCUTCHEN

Week five was full of IMAC-tion and IMAC reporting mistakes. Last week, the editor added the results of the Bud Bowl to my column (at my request). Unfortunately, she reported the wrong score and the wrong winner. ("Oops!" editor apologizes. I was working at 5 a.m.). In reality, Budweiser recovered a fumble in the end zone on the game’s final play to defeat Bud Light 36 to 34. What does this have to do with IMAC? Absolutely nothing. Also in last week’s column, the basketball team known as Morning Dru was referred to as Morning Drug. This was either a typo or a correction by the editor. My apologies to all the players of Morning Dru and others concerned with this matter. 

And now for something completely different... 

In basketball last week, Morning Dru defeated We Hope We Win by the score of 45 to 24. The Dribblin’ Titties forfeited to The Cousins, Smegma oozed by 2nd West Belk Eggs (score unreported) and The Rimmers dunked The Dish 41 to 25. 

See IMAC, page 6