4 THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

The Davidsonian

TRENT STEVENS, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor
HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager

The Senatorial Race & Davidson Values

“Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen.” These are the words found on the Davidson College seal. However, this motto is far from applicable to the work of Mr. Jesse Helms as North Carolina’s three-term Senator. Learning seems to be his least “cherished” value. Why?

Mr. Helms cast the only negative vote against the Higher Education Act Amendments which provide aid to colleges and college students.
Mr. Helms voted several times against the funding for Pell Grants which assist lower-income students in gaining access to post-secondary education.
Mr. Helms voted to eliminate the State Student Incentive Grants program, a Federal-State cost-sharing partnership which promotes the development and expansion of need-based education grant programs.
Mr. Helms voted to eliminate the College Work-Study program from the federal budget.

Clearly, his voting record doesn’t benefit Davidson which, according to the Statement of Purpose, “must constantly... increase its financial resources.” In a recent ad, Mr. Helms boasts about his record in helping education in North Carolina. Yet, the commercial lists only four programs he has sponsored or helped. Is that all Mr.

Letters

Does Davidson Volleyball Exist?

To the Editors:

I am irate! I cannot believe that in the last two issues of the Davidsonian there has been no mention of the Volleyball Team! Here is a team that has one of the best records, if not the best, in any sport at Davidson College and yet your paper fails to acknowledge they exist! The Charlotte Observer has disappointed me in their lack of coverage on such a great team, but goodness, I guess I can’t fault them when the school paper doesn’t mention them at all! At least the Observer has the box scores. I am sure Terry Holland, since he has attended all of their home games, would have been more than happy to have had his picture half that size in order to have had an article on the progress of the Volleyball Team!

Sincerely,
M. HATHAWAY
October 25, 1990

[Editors’ Note: We apologize for poor coverage of volleyball. Unfortunately, there have been production problems with sports. We hope last week's article remedied your disappointment.]

Sieck Lacks Theatre Insight

To the Editors:

I beg you to indulge me by hearing a few words in defense of the theatre department’s production of A Streetcar Named Desire. Well, in all honesty I am not defending the production. It needs no defense. What I am doing is trying to convey to Ms. Sieck the simple message that she should limit her public commentary to those topics about which she has more than paltry knowledge. She apparently placed no such limits on herself during her experiment with theatre review in last week’s Davidsonian. Ms. Sieck’s “review” of ‘Streetcar’ in last week’s paper was in fact a bit of observation that in no way resembled even remotely an informed critique. I know only enough to recognize my lack of expertise in eitherDirection or review of theatre productions in general, I feel that my experience as a member of the actual review. Although I, ‘Streetcar’ cast has given me certain insight about that particular play, insight that Ms. Sieck obviously lacks. Jennifer’s principal mistake was in assuming that she could “review this play without previous knowledge of it.” In choosing to do that, she practically assured herself of missing the whole point of Williams’ work. Had she been familiar with the concept of theatre review, Ms. Sieck would have known that a working knowledge of the script and of the playwright’s style are essential items. To embark upon a review of a production without these provisions is to set sail on very stormy waters indeed. Because of her lack of preparation, Ms. Sieck viewed ‘Streetcar’ with the narrowest of all possible perspectives. Her contempt for the play was based on her dislike of the social structure in our fair nation in the 1940s. Ms. Sieck is opposed to “abuse of women by men” and to the fact that women and ethnic minorities were in the 1940s locked into their traditional stations in society. What Ms. Sieck failed to see was that ‘Streetcar’, rather than glorifying the social structure in America in the 1940s, instead gives a very moving illustration of the unfortunate circumstances that were probably not uncommon then; she failed to see that this particular production was practically blind to traditional ethnic biases; she failed to see so much that I can’t imagine it having been worth her time to attend. I’d love to continue, but I’ve probably said too much already. I hope Jennifer has learned a valuable lesson from my gentle chiding. Perhaps her next attempt at review will be based on a more thorough understanding of the production in question.

Sincerely,
BOB HORNSBY ‘91
October 30, 1990

Sieck Needs Social Engineering

To the Editors:

What a hostile review of a wonderful production Helms could accomplish in 18 years? Harvey Gantt, the former mayor of Charlotte and Democratic candidate, understands the importance of higher education. As the first black student admitted to Clemson University, Mr. Gantt recognizes education as an important aspect of human development. Like Davidson’s Statement of Purpose, he believes that higher education can “develop persons of human instincts, of disciplined and creative minds.” Mr. Gantt’s education at Clemson helped him achieve his personal success. Simply put, Mr. Gantt represents progress for North Carolina’s higher education system. It is Mr. Gantt, not Mr. Helms, who represents Davidson values.

10 of A Streetcar Named Desire! Jennifer Sieck's social engineering would do to drama what USA Today has done to journalism. Please consider the following points:

1. The play is set in the French Quarter of 1940s New Orleans, NOT 1990. Does the cast wax nostalgic and treat this as some sort of last Arcadia to which we must return?
2. The play and the cast NEVER display violence against women in favorable lights.
3. Dramas, especially challenging ones, need catalysts. In Streetcar, physical and psychological violence are the catalysts. Try to imagine a play without some sort of catalyst.
4. Violence and racism exist in this world. Is it somehow morally wrong to point out a societal wart? Ignoring a problem won't make it go away.

It is so easy to jump on the politically correct bandwagon, and so easy to thus sacrifice a mind at the altar of intellectual fascism. I can only hope that the next time that Jennifer Sieck watches a play, she will check her high-faluting ideological blinders at the door.

Sincerely,
THOMAS W. GRANT '91
October 29, 1990