14

Lucia lets loose

Wednesday, February 7, 1990

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Apathy: Whether it’s politics or racism, is Davidson a hotbed of complacency?

Lucia Kendall

At a recent event called “Renew the Dream,” which encouraged us to work toward making Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s dream a reality, I heard a student who had just returned from “King Week ’90" in Atlanta. He gave a very stirring talk about non-violence, responses to racism, and King’s ideals. He also described how powerful it was to listen to Shen Tong, the Chinese student who led the Tiananmen Square protest in June. Fewer than 25 students made time to attend this “Renew the Dream” event. What does that suggest about our priorities?

It occurred to me that much of the difficulty in solving the racial problems at Davidson stems from the same root that our political apathy stems from. There seems to be an underlying attitude among us: if it doesn’t directly affect my life, then it isn’t a big enough problem for me to do anything about it.

When talking to people around campus I have tried to restrain myself from sounding like the JYA experience has provided me with huge bursts of insight and enlightenment that have given me a superior understanding of all the universe’s problems. But while I was hearing about Shen Tong’s speech, I couldn’t help remembering what it was like to be a student at Oxford University at the time of the crushed protest in Tiananmen Square. The spring term at Oxford lasts into mid-June, so all the students were still around then. Within 48 hours after the police action, Oxford students had organized a rally with six speakers (including a journalist who had personally seen what happened) and a march through the streets of the town to protest the killing. There were petitions for each of the University’s colleges to condemn the bloodshed. Some students distributed postcards addressed to Margaret Thatcher calling for her to take action against the repression, and almost everyone signed them (some people adding their own personal messages) and mailed them. Cherwell, the student newspaper, published articles about China’s politics. Oxford students have a lot of work to do too, and all this took place right before final exams (which determine their entire grade). But they were concerned enough to get involved.

Davidson was on summer vacation at the time, so it’s impossible to say for sure what students would have done if we’d been here. But I wonder what the response to those events would have been. Would there have been any response at all? I see a glaring contrast between huge masses of Chinese students who are willing to risk their lives because of the strength of their political convictions, and most of us, who don’t even have any strong political convictions.

But what concerns me the most is not that we don’t seem to care much about anything that happens more than four feet away from us. What concerns me most is the perception that this attitude is not a problem. Many of us think that it is normal for students to be like this. It is college students, everywhere from Oxford to San Salvador to Beijing, who are at the forefront of challenges to the unethical practices of their governments and societies. Everywhere, that is, except here. Are we so absorbed in our own narrow interests that we don’t see other people’s struggles? Does our “youthful idealism” extend only as far as the ideal of making enough money to afford BMWs? I hope we can all prove that these fears are unjustified with actions that deny them, but it is far too easy to slip into self-centeredness.

I recognize that this apathy is a problem not only with Davidson, but with our generation, and with our society as a whole. Nevertheless, the problem is even worse at Davidson than in most places. For example, Williams College (which is similar to Davidson in many ways) has student organizations that range from the Disarmament Forum to the Anarchist group to the Society Organized Against Racism; Brandeis University campaigns actively against the oppression of Jews in the Eastern Bloc; Oberlin College’s campus is plastered with posters advocating social action and grass-roots development in the third world.

Many students here plead that they aren’t interested in politics. That’s like walking beside a lake, hearing the cries of a drowning swimmer, and claiming you're not interested in water. Politics profoundly changes the lives of millions of people. You can’t just ignore it. It isn’t a lack of worthy causes that makes us so apathetic. The United States’ interference in Nicaragua has been compared many times to the interference in Vietnam. But as we all know, during the Vietnam conflict people our age rose up in protest and helped change history. Now many of us don’t know which side is which in Nicaragua, and those of us who do know often don’t care.

Of course, there are people who are interested in these issues, but they’re always the same few people. The same faces are seen at Crop Lunch, and Amnesty International, and lectures about political oppression. Some students are involved in similar, less visible projects of their own instead, but there are too few of them also. It is very easy to applaud the efforts of the “aware” people, and then sit back in our complacency, reassuring ourselves that there are Molly Gravers out there righting the world’s wrongs so we don’t have to do it ourselves.

I have to admit that the main reason I went to the “Renew the Dream” event I mentioned earlier was to alleviate the guilt I felt over not having supported any of these kinds of programs in the past. Once I got there and listened to the messages, however, I found that it was fascinating and inspiring. The speeches were magnificent. I wish more peoplehad heard them, because I think they might have sparked a continuing interest in many students. You may think that this article shows that I am horribly self-righteous about this whole issue. Please understand, though, that my frustrations with the apathy among Davidson students reflect my frustrations with my own apathy. I hate the fact that I have only a very vague idea of what's going on in the Middle East. It’s one of the most important hot spots in the world and there’s no excuse for my ignorance. I hate the fact that I know almost zilch about Black History, and that I have made no effort to learn about it. There’s no excuse for that either. But we all have a responsibility to the people who are being killed and oppressed and denied their basic human rights. We need to make a commitment to overcoming our self-absorption and apathy. That process can start in many ways: Maybe resolving to read the international section of The New York Times the next time you're hanging out in the library. Maybe deciding to make time to attend just one of the Central America Awareness Week programs. Maybe organizing a bunch of friends to go to Washington to protest one of Congress’s decisions. Maybe spending a summer working in a Cambodian refugee camp. But it needs to happen, and it needs to start now.

A call for student spirit at basketball games
Larry Dagenhart

Student support at Davidson basketball games is at an all-time low. We have 1,400 students here, and at last Wednesday’s game against UNC-Asheville, there were not more than a few hundred at the very most. OK, so the Cats are 2-18 as of the Asheville game but the players and coaches do not deserve this sorry support. There seem to be too few of us left that remember how loud and rambunctious we students could get in Johnston Gym. Apparently, a majority of the freshmen and sophomores came in with the “big deal, we never win anyway” attitude and therefore don’t go to the games. Even the fair-weather fans are few and far between. I ran into two of my classmates the other day who admitted they have never been to a Davidson basketball game. How can this be? Where were you during the Virginia game? The final game in Johnston Gym? I will never forget the look on Bobby Hussey’s face as he turned to the jam-packed student side after the 1988 win over Marshall (a weeknight game) and applauded the raucous Wildcat fans for making the noise unbearable for the visiting team. Nowadays, it is getting pretty embarrassing to be outcheered by the Furman and Winthrop fans. Get the pep band out there. It should be on hand for every game. Ask any player and he will tell you how good it feels to go through his pre-game warmup to our fabulous fight song. Also, it really adds a lot to the game’s atmosphere to have music during the timeouts as well as the National Anthem played by our students. The hockey rink set-up of Belk Arena does not do much to facilitate the intimacy of the old gym, but all I’m asking is that more students come to the games and make a little noise. Davidson games are fun. They’re free and they don’t take very long to sit through. “I’ve got too much to do” and the won-loss record are not excuses for not showing up. There are four remaining home games. We students have four more chances this year to show coach Bob McKillop, his staff and most importantly, the players that we appreciate what they do and give a damn about Davidson basketball. The team has practiced nearly every day since October, played a crippling December schedule that included Virginia, Duke, Wake Forest and St. John’s, and have played the entire season knowing that there would be no conference tournament and little chance of an NCAA bid. March 3 is the last game of the season and also the final home game for seniors Alan Hunter, Mo Gray, Jeff Harris, Jay Schmitt and A.J. Morgan in Davidson uniforms (get back out there Magic, we need you!). The least we students can do is show our support to some guys who have seen it all go downhill since their freshman year. As for now, the SGA road trip to Liberty. Let’s show the team and at least the visiting fans how loud we can be.

Although basketball is the only Davidson sport that gets us on the 11 o'clock news, hopefully this message will encourage a little more support for all of our athletes. My hat is off to every one of them. Whether it be 7 a.m. workouts for the tennis teams or night football practice to avoid lab conflicts, the fact that each Davidson athlete practices for hours on end during much of the school year, rolls out of bed for those early classes, attempts to maintain some sort of social life and still manages to get all the work done is remarkable. If it wanted to, Davidson could cash it all in and get solely back to academics and become a boring, undiversified college with little to get excited about. Obviously, the construction of the Baker Sports Complex and the hiring of Terry Holland as Athletic Director are signs that Davidson does not want to do this. As Davidson attempts to bring the entire athletic program back to respectability in the 1990s and on into the next century, we students need to meet the athletes and coaches halfway and show appreciation. Cheerleaders, keep cheering; you’re doing a great job.

Larry Dagenhart is a junior history major from Charlotte, NC.