Lots of baseball action, page 7!

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 16

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, March 28, 1990

Faculty passes proposal instituting minus grades; SGA to sponsor student poll

By JOE MARIS

Last week the much-contested proposal to implement a system of minuses into the present grading system of Davidson College was called to vote and passed in the monthly faculty meeting.

Introduced last year, the proposed addition of minuses would break each letter grade into three segments. The lower segment would become the minus grade, the middle segment would become the regular grade, and the upper segment would become the plus grade. A “B-” would approximate 2.7 grade points, a B would equal 3.0 grade points, and a B+ would approximate 3.5 grade points.

The system was proposed to the Educational Policy Committee last year. Last fall, a forum was held to encourage student input on the subject. The Educational Policy Committee discussed the pros and cons mentioned in the forum and recommended that the proposal be brought to a vote at the faculty meeting. Voting was held and the proposal was passed.

Tony Abbott, chairman of the English Department, cites many advantages for the minus system. He says many teachers whose courses are not graded numerically are forced to give students with a lower-ended grade the same grade as students with a higher-ended grade. To make up for this, many teachers give the student a B+ instead of an A or a C+ instead of a B. A minus system, he says, would give teachers a less artificial grading system to work with, resulting in higher grades for many of the borderline students.

He adds that while the minus system might hurt some straight-A students, it would most likely benefit the straight B+ students.

Abbott says that no other college studied by the committee has a grading system similar to Davidson’s. He maintains that graduate schools will take this into consideration and will most likely adjust the grade points accordingly.

Many of the science and mathematics professors believe that the new grading system will have little effect on their classes. Donald Kimmel, professor of biology, said, “It would be easy to set our numbers in the system.” The grades won't change, he says, but the grade points will, resulting in a decline in GPAs for many science students.

The proposal is reversible and might be changed if students raise concern about the new system. SGA President Doug Jobe encourages all students to discuss the new system with the faculty and to attend an open forum on March 28.

Following the April 3rd SGA poll on this subject, if enough concern is expressed concerning the new system, the faculty will reconsider the proposal and revote. If the plan remains unchanged, it will be implemented by the college next fall.

Watson Foundation selects MacDonald and Darsey

By GIRISH GVALANI

Two Davidson seniors, Katherine MacDonald and Jonathan Darsey, were announced as recipients of the Watson Fellowship last week.

The fellowship is awarded annually to 75 graduating seniors to support initiatives of the students' choice. Nearly 200 students applied.

MacDonald, when asked to comment on the decisions made by the awards committee, said that she was very excited and “could not wait to graduate to begin working.”

She will be doing research in Parkinson's Disease and other diseases of the central nervous system in Munich under Dr. Bernard Sable for six months next year. In this time she will also travel to France and Spain to gain knowledge of various research techniques and recent advances in the field of neuroscience. She will then travel to Argentina to work under Barrantes in Bahia Blanca in February.

MacDonald said that she had a two-fold purpose to her plans for next year; one, to be able to come to a decision as to what she plans to do in graduate school, and two, to be able to establish contacts all over the world, a factor crucial to scientific research today.

Darsey will be traveling to Mexico, Nicaragua, and Spain to critically review the newfound political and economic freedom in these countries. He will interview a number of powerful businessmen and political leaders. Says Darsey, “These countries have had a shift of policy towards liberalism in economy and politics and I want to research into how permanent this shift is going to be after over 400 years of repression.”

Darsey does not yet have many political or business contacts in these countries but says, “I have a lot of contacts in the academic field and intellectuals are highly respected in these countries now. Hopefully, I should not have too much trouble securing the necessary introductions and information.”