THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING

Joe Binns | Music Review

Connell’s At Home With Classical Style

The Connells
One Simple Word
TVT Records

The Connells, David and Mike, vocalist Doug MacMillan, drummer Peele Wimberley, and guitarist George Huntley have reached a medium with
their new work, One Simple Word. This is good and bad.

It is good in that it's not another disgustingly blatant attempt to push themselves into the mainstream like their last
album, Fun and Games, but it is bad in that it falls way short of the album that put them
into a position to do such a thing, Boylan Heights.

The latter came out after the band's first major release, Darker Days, which didn’t do a whole lot for them.
Heights, in addition to giving Wildcat alternative fans weeks of sweet listening and being mandatory on every mixed tape made
that semester, gave them something to be proud of. The Connells are from Charlotte (Boylan Heights is a suburb therein)
and one can almost tell by listening. The album was, and is, a “leaver.”

That is, one puts it on the turntable, in the tape-deck or compact disc player and leaves it until the
music stops. It is solid. All the tracks are worth hearing and you listen to them in their entirety, in
order, over and over. I would compare Heights to the Feelies’ The Good Earth in this aspect and in its
intentional and welcome monotony but wouldn’t want you to think that the Connells “rock” like the Feelies.

Where that band’s tunes regularly get violently rapid and oftentimes build to border on a type of skate-thrash, the Connells
stay safely within a gamut of pleasing mid-range tempos at their fastest and still euphonious harmonies at their most distorted.
The Connells stay true to this on Word, but it is not a “leaver.” It gets touched a lot.

You take it out after the first five songs, maybe six. The Fish does six then skips to “The Joke”
at number ten but no one sits through the whole thing especially not with a trio of weaklings like the
title track, “Another Souvenir,” and “Link,” right there in the middle at seven, eight, and nine.

There are thirteen tracks in all beginning with “Stone Cold Yesterday,” a beautiful mix of the simplistic guitar styles of
Mike Connell and Huntley with the equally uncomplicated rhythms of Wimberly.

The music serves to set off the interesting blend in MacMillan’s voice. He is a brash but nerdy dude singing
“Candy Apple Grey”/“Head on the Door” type lyrics (a little less cohesive and depressing than Mould/Smith) in a distanced, mid-south
voice. In other words, he sings New York City lyrics with a Charlotte accent. The combination works though.

“Get A Gun” is my favorite cut now that I’ve quit looking for meaning in the lyrics; “She never listens
to me at night/Get a gun, get a gun we’re losing altitude?” [Digression: Guitarist Huntley told me that “Home Today,”
one of the only Connells songs with meaning, is not about the Charlotte female it was rumored to be about.]
In the same weird but mellow strain is “What Do You Want?” which ends with a whisper possibly answering the
title’s query with, “hand jive/hand jive.”

This is not the only random uttering on the album. “Too Gone” exposes MacMillan’s strange delight in dance funk when,
at the end, he utters slightly altered lyrics from “Let The Music Play (He Won’t Get Away).” “Too Gone” along
with “Waiting My Turn” also keeps the Connells’ tradition of employing classical instrumentation alive, this time with trumpet, cello, and
oboe.

We have to give in slightly to regional prejudice when grading One Simple Word; the Connells are our neighbors. But
you also hate to give them a good grade when you know by listening to Heights that they can do
much better. In a simple letter: B+. The plus is for not putting out another Fun and Games and only
bozos use minus grades.

And speaking of grades...

Short Show Review

... this review is second hand because I’m making an effort to get out of the bottom third of my
class (Right, I think I can gain a lot of ground on the three-fivers with two grading periods left in
my college career). With it being monsoon season as far as term papers go, I was way too busy to
go see any shows this past week. Here's a second-hand show review of the New Potato Caboose, compliments of basement
Belk.

New Potato Caboose. 11/8/90.

13-13 Club, It hasn’t moved.

Chip Petree reports that the band which ripped me off last time I saw them is again complete and again
tight in their covers and originals. From their album Promising Traveller came the opener, “Throw Rug Blues,” the stupid ballad
“Psychedelia,” and “The Mansion,” escorting the title track. They played two reggae tunes; Third World’s “Natty Dread,” and Bob Marley’s
“Get Up Stand Up.” “Salty Dog” was the encore and Petree assures me that the reunited Caboose is still as
cheesy as ever.

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1990

LIFE IN KELL:

WE'RE STUCK IN A RUT, FRUSTRATION IS AT AN ALL-TIME HIGH, CHANGE, GROWTH IS IMPOSSIBLE,

The Post Office will be closed today to fellow Davidsonians to celebrate National Postal Workers’ Day OFF day (not really).
Surprise! Here's the new directory, Freddie!

SPENSER'S "FAR AND NEAR" DRIVE FOR THE NEEDY: NOVEMBER 27-28 STUDENTS AND FACULTY ARE URGED TO BRING DONATIONS OF FOOD,
CLOTHING, TOYS, OR MONEY TO CHAMBERS FROM 10 AM - 3 PM ON THESE TWO DAYS.

No one paid for designing this, did they? All I know is it's not made to be.
