THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

Sports

Men's Soccer

Gangway! Airborne Matt Spier rips through the opposition.

Photo by Beth Pharr

Nationally Ranked
‘Cats Soccer Keeps Winning

Just looking at the Davidson men’s soccer team’s 10-1 record is impressive in itself, but it doesn’t come close to describing all of the team’s other accomplishments this fall.

The Wildcats have defeated teams such as Duke and Richmond, number four in the South. Even more impressive than the southern ranking is Davidson's ranking as the twentieth best soccer team in the nation in Division I.

This is the highest the Davidson soccer team has ever been ranked. It is also the first time in about twenty years that any Davidson team has been nationally ranked.

Just yesterday afternoon, the team continued their impressive season with a 5-1 win over UNC-G. The Wildcats completely outplayed the UNC-G Spartans in a game that was never close in the second half. Before entering yesterday’s game, the Spartans were undefeated with an 8-0 record. UNC-G was also ranked number one in the nation in Division II. One of their victories was over Clemson. The Tigers are currently ranked number one in the South and number four in the nation.

Davidson was led by Rob Ukrop who scored two goals in Wednesday’s victory. Lance Kinerk, Peter Cobb, and Spider Wormuth all scored one goal apiece.

The Wildcats dominated UNC-G in scoring more goals on them in one game than the Spartans had allowed in all of their other games combined. Said forward Glenn Smith, “We pulled together and outplayed one of the best teams in the country, a huge win.”

This past weekend the Wildcats were victorious over Furman and the College of Charleston. The win over Furman came in the first overtime period when Cobb scored on a free kick, to give us the 1-0 victory. On Sunday, Cobb scored twice and Ukrop once, to give us a 3-1 win over Charleston.

Coach Charlie Slagle has now won 104 games in his career. Slagle reached the 100 mark over a week ago in Davidson’s defeat of South Alabama.

The fan turnout continues to be great at all of the soccer games. Although the team will not be playing at home again until October 13, they will travel just down the road for a game against rival UNC-C on Sunday afternoon at two. Before that, the team plays at Appalachian State on Friday.

Football

Richard Howell readies a blast

We Believe! 'Cats Beat Emory and Henry

By MATT JOHNES

The true character of a football team shows through when the going gets tough. If a team believes in itself, it can overcome almost anything. The Davidson Wildcats believe, and last Saturday they made believers out of Emory and Henry with a hard-fought win. The ‘Cats defense forced four turnovers and the offense racked up 464 total yards in the 31-27 victory.

In the fourth quarter, when the ‘Cats needed it most, they came up with the big plays that win close football games. Hard-hitting defense and the combination of quarterbacks Mark Wainwright and Richard Howell led Davidson to 17 points in the quarter, and showed that this year’s team is something special.

Emory and Henry started off the scoring with a 37-yard field goal midway through the first quarter, and on the ensuing kickoff Davidson set up shop at their own 43 after Bryn Robinson’s 40-yard kickoff return. Six plays later, Robinson ran for 16 yards and a touchdown to give the Wildcats a 6-3 lead. Drew Fassett then booted through the first of his four extra points.

The Wasps struck right back, driving 81 yards for a touchdown. Davidson lost the ball on downs on the next series, and Emory and Henry started off from their own 26. But they didn’t get far against the ‘Cats’ tenacious pass defense.

Continued on Page 15

‘Cats Seek Fourth Win Against Dickinson

Davidson, 3-1 after last weekend’s stirring 31-27 victory over Emory and Henry, journeys to Carlisle, Pa. Saturday to confront Dickinson.

The Red Devils should present another stiff challenge to the Wildcats; they are 3-0, and overwhelmed Georgetown 41-3 last week. Last year Dickinson finished 9-1-1 and won the Centennial Football Conference championship.

This year, the Red Devils have been simply overpowering, limiting their three adversaries to an average of just 120 yards per game.

Davidson head coach Dave Fagg is understandably apprehensive. “It looks like we’re going right back into the frying pan,” he said. “This could be our toughest game.”