6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990

D.A. Thompson | Rude Notes & Random Scribblings

Pretty Woman Is Pretty Mindless

I guess it was inevitable. After the massive success at the box office, it had to happen. I was hoping it would just flutter away into the darker reaches of the American memory, never to disturb again, but, no. Sadly enough, Pretty Woman has been released on videocassette. Now, once again, we must be bombarded by a barrage of belittling advertisements, celebrating this fantastic love story, this Cinderella romance, this filthy load of senseless and sexist drivel. (Why, yes, as a matter of fact, I did have a little trouble finding an idea for this week’s installment.)

Anyway, I knew the very first time I saw an ad for this little flick that I would hate it. Anytime a film is billed as the “feel good movie of the year” I do my best to avoid it. Unfortunately, my best wasn’t good enough in this case. While in Cambridge last summer, a certain, and still unforgiven, Ms. Caroline Buxton, ‘90, talked me into escorting her to see this abomination because she didn’t want to be alone at the theater. Inexplicably, nobody else felt like going. After an utterly unsuccessful attempt to talk the night manager of the movie theater into refunding my money and throwing in a little extra for the suffering endured, I vowed to use any means at my disposal to promote the boycott of this crap. Pretty Woman is nothing less than a Communist plot to support the subjugation of American women and keep Jesse Helms in office. (So I’m a wee tiny bit paranoid, sue me.)

More seriously, though, in hell, as I picture it, I would be trapped for eternity with Pete Rose, Rosie from the Bounty ads, Jesse Helms, Jesse Jackson, Michael Jackson, Lynn Redgrave, Peter Graves, and the buck-toothed guy from The Mod Squad in a determinedly cramped living room, decorated with Elvis on Velvet paintings and brown shag carpeting, with nothing to watch on the wide screen TV except Pretty Woman.

Just thinking about this degenerate assault against the sensibilities makes me ill. This by-product...

Three new ways to survive college.

The Macintosh Classic

With Apple's introduction of three new Macintosh* computers, meeting the challenges of college life just got a whole lot easier. Because now, everybody can afford a Macintosh. The Macintosh Classic is our most affordable model, yet it comes with everything you need—including a hard disk drive. The Macintosh LC combines color capabilities with affordability. And the Macintosh IIsi is perfect for students who need a computer with extra power and expandability. No matter which Macintosh you choose, you'll have a computer that...lightens your workload without giving you another tough subject to learn. Every Macintosh computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And when you've learned one program, you're well on your way to learning them all. That’s because thousands of available programs all work in the same, consistent manner. You can even share information with someone who uses a different type of computer—thanks to Apple's versatile SuperDrive™ which reads from and writes to Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple® II floppy disks. See the new Macintosh computers for yourself, and find out how surviving college just got a whole lot easier.

MS-DOS is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a trademark of IBM Corporation. Apple, the Apple logo, and "The power to be your best" are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

The worst of it is that Pretty Woman is actually a popular film with women. I have to ask myself how much sexism is just tolerable and how much is nothing less than a selling point. Remember Fatal Attraction? Have Glenn Close boil a bunny or two and the film is labeled as supportive of female stereotypes. If Julia Roberts, however, is portrayed as a gold-digging slut to be saved from the streets by Prince Charming, you get the most popular and financially successful waste of time in recent history. Does this mean that if women are exploited heinously enough they’ll bag all their equal rights business and lay themselves out on a piano for the first rich white man to have at his whim? I would hope not. In all seriousness, Pretty Woman is a disgrace to any thinking person. Please don’t waste your money renting or buying this insult. I have been told not to take such drivel so seriously, that the movie is just harmless fantasy. Well, if this is fantasy, then the fantasy evokes contempt. Pretty Woman is just a stupid script with pathetic jokes, large breasts, and cheap innuendo; but its overwhelming popularity is an indictment of our rapidly crumbling culture.

Next Week: Nintendo: Children’s Toy or Japanese Plot to Support the Continued Subjugation of American Youth and Keep Jesse Helms in Office?

Energy Resources: Gas, Coal, Uranium, Hydro Electric

For further information visit Computer Services Center or contact Lydia Lorenzin at Ext. 2432.

"The power to be your best" is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

This is the real deal in daring exclusivity. AIRDYE: Don't insult your heritage by settling for cheap imitations. Call Now!! Deals like this don’t last long.

Davidson Students from rural areas of Kentucky, Georgia, and Tennessee: contact Jamie Slagle at x6501.