Che Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXII

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990

NUMBER 7

Photo Courtesy of College Relations
D.G. Martin '62 was the Fall Convocation speaker this year.

Convocation Speaker
Calls For Courage

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

Calling on family ties with Davidson that stretch back for 60 years and now extend far and wide, D.G. Martin told a Fall Convocation audience of students and parents that courage is the greatest gift they can give each other.

Among those listening to Martin, a 1962 graduate now serving as secretary of the University of North Carolina, were more than 75 relatives and family friends who were reunited on campus for two events honoring his late father, D. Grier Martin, and mother, Louise McMichael Martin.

On Friday afternoon, the college dedicated the area around three new dormitories as “The D. Grier Martin Court” in honor of the man who served as Davidson president from 1958 until 1968. The following morning a garden beside the president’s house was dedicated as “The Louise McMichael Martin Garden” to honor his widow, a woman still living in Davidson who led the effort to preserve and restore the president’s house when its demolition was being considered.

D.G. Martin’s address was the highlight of the convocation, an occasion during which many student and faculty awards were announced. It was also Parents Weekend, so Martin told the Love Auditorium crowd that the separation of parents and children that college brings leads to questions about life’s accomplishments. Parents are always gauging their actions by asking what their children would think, and children are always asking what their parents would think.

Continued on Page 1

INSIDE

News
Davidson Hosts North Carolina Legislature. Page 2.

Student Dump: "Not Permanent." Page 2.

Sports
Family Affair: Rob and Jackie Ukrop. Page 11.

Mindless. Page 6.

Campus Living
Nomad's Horoscope: Reveal Your Future. Page 9.

Opinions
Pretty Woman Is Pretty Sick. Page 4.

Sieck Lacks Theatre Insight. Page 4.

Support For Gantt Visible On Campus

By TOM KOONCE

Although next week’s election between Harvey Gantt, the black Democrat and former mayor of Charlotte, and Jesse Helms, the 18-year Republican incumbent, proves to be one of the closest Senate races in the nation this fall, one could barely discern this fact by the political activity of students at Davidson.

During Fall Convocation several seniors attached Gantt stickers to their gowns. In Chambers, a large bulletin board in the main hall displays two large photos of Gantt along with the candidate’s position on several issues. Clearly, the Students for Harvey Gantt committee has been very visible on campus since their organization early in the school year.

Yet, there has been no publicly organized effort by students in support of Helms. The smaller display in Chambers of a Helms sticker, pamphlets comparing Gantt’s position with Senator Ted Kennedy, and propaganda for other Republican candidates represents the only work done by College Republicans.

Inactivity by Helms’ backers may be based on antipathy by many students against their candidate. Exhibited on the College Republican’s bulletin board is a picture of Helms, defaced by a pen-marked “X” on his face.

Has this led to embarrassment and fear in supporting Helms? Freshman Kyle Kenner, a Helms supporter, comments, “It could be nice if people were not so ostracized for supporting Helms and they would come out and support him more openly.”

However, does the Students for Harvey Gantt committee feel, like many North Carolinians, that Gantt can pull it off? According

Continued on Page 2

Parents Invade Campus For Annual Weekend

By JENNY SCARBOROUGH

Parents Weekend, which was held from October 26-28, offered a variety of activities to entertain and familiarize parents with Davidson College. Parents arrived Friday afternoon and were invited to make appointments with faculty, or to attend one of several seminars hosted by Davidson professors.

The seminars were designed to teach parents about cross-disciplinary studies that are available at Davidson. International Issues, Gender Issues, Issues in Medicine, and Applied Mathematics were all discussed. Faculty Hospitality Houses, hosted by various departments on Friday afternoon, provided an opportunity for parents to meet faculty members.

The Theater Department gave three performances of A Streetcar Named Desire during the weekend, impressing and entertaining visiting parents.

“I thought it was very well done, and I enjoyed the performance thoroughly,” commented one parent.

Fall Convocation was held Saturday morning, giving seniors their first opportunity to don caps and gowns. David Grier Martin, Jr. spoke at the event. Martin is secretary of the University of North Carolina system, a graduate of the class of 1962 and a Davidson parent.

The Wildcats were active on the sports fields Saturday. The football, soccer, and field hockey teams demonstrated their talents before record-breaking crowds of Davidson students and parents.

Meals were provided by the Vail Commons, which hosted Oktoberfest, and various eating houses and fraternities.

Many families worshiped together at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church and other area churches Sunday morning before parents headed home.

Thomas J. Watson Scholarship Finalists Announced

By KATIE REYNOLDS

Four seniors have been selected from among 17 applicants as Davidson nominees for the Watson Foundation Scholarship.

Wendy Dunn, Shawn Murphy, Meg Hoyle, and Doug Jobe will compete with finalists from 40 colleges and universities for funding for self-designed, internationally-oriented projects.

The scholarship, sponsored by the Thomas J. Watson Foundation, is awarded annually to 70 seniors to provide them the opportunity to pursue creative projects for a year following their graduation. Watson, founder of IBM, spent a year traveling the world before starting his company and hoped to provide others with the same opportunity for creative learning.

Of the Davidson finalists, Political Science professor Lou Ortmayer, chairman of the Graduate Scholarships and Fellowships Committee, remarks, “It is a very diverse group. We have everything

Continued on Page 2

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036