Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text with the original meaning and punctuation preserved:

---

walk her to her room, call the chaplain
who understands such things. She talks to me.

Lines Comma While Sitting in My
Office, After Having Read Many Poems
by My Fellow North Carolinians -

They know the damp red smell of earth in old
abandoned houses, the darkness of closed rooms,
flash of fish tail in frozen mountain streams,

lift of blacktooth smiles in Appalachia.

They know the sudden lift of heron, crook-legged
before dusk and the way boys skip smooth stones
in still ponds. They know the lidless eyes

of snakes seen face to face across thin streams.

They know how dogs, tunneling for hermit crabs,
throw storms of sand into the startled air.
They know the skin of grandmothers, brittle

like ancient maps hidden in attic trunks.

I know only the faces of the young and the dark
stare in their lowered eyes when they have ceased
to hope. I remember now how once in composition class

I sat easily on the desk, walking my words
like the afternoon dog: Now kicked over

and legs of a girl's voice tangled into the feet
of mine. Telling the garbled beads of her desperate
faith, she spoke to me in tongues. Glossolalia,

the word slipping from the lips like the sound
itself, her strangled cry for help from her unknown
God. Black girl, one of ten among four hundred,
tumbled into this spider world, begging for help.

pressed into faith by a crippled man cruising
the freshman halls for converts, bent
round the pimpled and maimed, the different
and the ugly, promising eternal life in worlds

to come as recompense for scars in this one.

My class sits stunned and silent. The girl's
words slow. God, she says in English, has given
her permission to speak. "In all your classes?"

I ask. "No," she says, "just in this one."
I had my house in order.
Now I am face to face. I dismiss the class

of her faith with bits of tongue dispersed
between the lines. She will go home tomorrow
to a place where she can be understood.

Pronunciation

Green shell encasing pink flesh, wet
massaging my dry throat to ripeness.

Oh how we miss when we call you plainly
“watermelon” - as if you were common,
as if water could compete

with honey-dew or musk.

No, squishing you between cheek

and fellow-pink gums

spitting your seeds across porches

into hair, blouses, shorts.

I want to call you more,

to say your name as only in the South:
“whatamelon” - like a portable pool,

a dessert, a blessing.

Robert McKay, ‘90

---