Features The Davidsonian Wednesday, February 14, 1990

Rusk Scholars to run for SGA (just kidding)

By ANJALI SHARMA

If you thought Americans had seen the last of their colonial masters in 1776, think again. The Rusk scholars, George
Osborne, Erica Maran, and Andrew Kaye, have decided to use their time at Davidson to settle an old score. “It
won’t be long before the Union Jack flies proudly again over the campus,” George assures us. With George as SGA
President, Andrew as Vice-President, and Erica as the glamorous First Lady, driving on the right-hand side of the road and
grilling out hot dogs at the Union are definitely out. They’re planning radical moves that will bring Davidson, and indeed
the entire United States, back under the aegis of the British Crown.

Their forthcoming campaign will be the culmination of many seconds of careful thought and covert activities. Working for them is
a large team of dedicated pollsters, lawyers, “sound-bite” managers, and speechwriters, the spearhead of an SGA takeover bid. When I
suggested that their $15 budget seemed a little inadequate for such an ambitious project, all three appeared evasive, and they
finally admitted that they “hadn’t really thought about that.” Skillfully changing the subject, they produced messages of support from Queen
Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, Prince Charles, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and Benny Hill. Princess Diana reluctantly agreed to return to
Erica the dresses she had borrowed for her wedding and honeymoon.

As a gesture of goodwill, the Rusk scholars are prepared to grant an amnesty to the American people for the
crimes committed during the War of Independence. Moving on to specifics, however, George was still not prepared to give way
on the controversial taxation/representation issue; subjects will be taxed, he said, but they need to earn their right to vote.
However, as Erica pointed out, “there are numerous advantages to being British; the passports are nicer, and the stamps are
simply delightful.” Andrew, concerned for the Patterson Court interest, emphasized that under current British Law, the legal drinking age is
only 18. “Get your laughing gear around that!” he remarked in a state of questionable sobriety.

Of course, the Rusk scholars envisage other key changes to Davidson life as well. They all agreed that language was
an obvious starting point: possible changes they would make would include altering “color” to become “colour”, “theater” to become “theatre”,
and “aluminum” to become “aluminium” (one of George’s pet peeves). Moreover, the use of ‘awesome’ and ‘dude’ will be strictly
forbidden. Erica has promised a ‘Just Say No’ program to help that large body of Davidson students addicted to T-Shirts;
self-support groups like “T-Shirts Anonymous” will be established for those finding it hard to kick the habit. In addition, Andrew
strongly supports a move to ban those half-leather/half-rubber hunting shoes - “hideous eyesores”, he calls them.

Intimidated by such insights, I inquired about the food situation. In response, these Rusk scholars boomed at me, “last of
the hamburger scene; Domino’s outlawed; french fries to be chips.” They continued, “Steak and Kidney pie, bread and dripping, gruel,
suet, and jam rolly-polly.” Also, clocks will naturally be put forward five hours, and ‘the telly’ will be restricted to
four stations. “Because they pose a significant threat to the establishment of British rule in Davidson, all ROTC members will
be required to serve a tour of duty at one of Britain’s cozy Antarctic weather-monitoring centers,” George insisted. Dean Terry’s
position will be given much consideration; unfortunately, it is not guaranteed. They concluded by saying, “If you have any questions
about the future of Davidson, and the U.S., do not hesitate to keep them to yourselves ...and VOTE FOR US
- because it’s the last vote you'll have!”

Children of the malt, Part V

Taking a taste of more German beers

By JOHN HUTCHINSON

This week’s guest drinkers were Robin Barnes, Associate Professor of History, a specialist in Reformation Germany; Sonja Fecher, an exchange
student from Wurzburg; and Kris Rengel ‘90, JYA student who spent last year in Wurzburg. We were surprised that Bavarian
beer fared so favorably during the blind-tasting sessions. The export quality of Northern German beer is apparently inferior to that
of southern German beer, as Bavarian brews were rated consistently higher by my guest drinkers.

Dortmunder: Strong and bitter. Fairly weak aftertaste. “Brewed with a punch. I prefer my German beer a little smoother.” --Barnes.
“It makes me want more” --Fecher.

Pinker Pils: Sparkles. Very tame. “You could...throw down a lot of this” --Rengel. “Drinkable, but not much to it. You
forget about it when you're done” --Barnes. “A girl would like it” --Fecher. “German sexism rears its ugly head” --Barnes.

Kronenbourg (Strasbourg, beer): Sweet smell, smooth, nutritious taste, cloudy. “This is something a German hippie would brew” --Barnes. “One could
drink a great deal of this and feel healthy” --Fecher.

Bitburger: Highly carbonated, tinny taste. Has no character. “Smokestack brew. You know it’s German beer, but it has no soul”
--Barnes. “Smells like wet metal” --Rengel.

Sailer: Cloudy, sweet, smooth. Dry, little aftertaste. Pleasant, round, tame flavor. “You can taste both the earth and the alcohol
in this, but it is a little wimpy for me. It isn’t a beer hall beer.” --Barnes. “It wouldn’t distract
you from dinner” --Fecher. “This isn’t a beer, this is milk!” --Rengel.

Monkshof: Good body, very smooth. A touch of bitterness. “This is German beer” --Barnes. “My dad would drink it” --Fecher.
“If this were put in a German masse (liter mug) in front of me, I’d be really happy” --Rengel.

Kaiser (Austrian beer): Pleasant, but not exciting. Highly sedimented. Tastes like a home brew. “Beer brewed by the Greens (a
back-to-land political party). You can chew on this beer it’s got so much sediment in it” --Barnes. “Tastes like moldy
bread” --Rengel.

Moravia: Rich, real character, but not truly full-bodied. Tastes like a major house beer. “Very standard, very acceptable German beer”
--Barnes. “This is a ‘liter beer’--you can drink a whole lot of it” --Fecher.

Pinker Weizen: Hearty beer with a nice, sharp aftertaste. “Smells like potatoes. The taste makes my mouth water” --Fecher. “Honest
people’s beer. The finest products of the German soil” --Barnes.

Berliner Weizen: Don’t try this one without fruit or a shot of schnapps in it. Otherwise, we really hope it
was not intended to taste as spectacularly vile as it did.

Beck’s Dark: Not heavy, full, or creamy enough for a dark beer. “Sparkly, tends toward bitterness” --Fecher. “Tastes like a
good pilsner beer” --Hutch. “This isn’t much of a dark beer” --Rengel.

Hofbrau Dark: Smells wonderful, beautiful dark color. Very rich. Coffee aftertaste. “You don’t forget this one. This is very good
dark beer. Fulfills all expectations” --Fecher. “Sometimes you find everything you want in a woman. This is that kind of
beer. It’s good food. It has so much body and flavor, you couldn’t throw it back with impunity” --Barnes.

St. Pauli Girl Dark: Bitter. Tastes like something is missing. “Pils with food coloring in it” --Rengel. “Not very exceptional.
Not the dark beer you’d want to drink, but I wouldn’t turn my nose up at it” --Barnes.

Spaten Dark: Rich, creamy taste. Slightly sweet. “Guinness-like consistency” --Rengel. “I could consume enormous quantities of this over the hours.
You could sip yourself into oblivion” --Barnes. “This is above its function as beer” --Fecher. “The Mercedes of dark beers”
--Barnes.

Our Picks
Best Beer: Monkshof, Moravia, Hofbrau Dark, Spaten Dark.
Worst Beer: Bitburger, Kaiser, St. Pauli Dark.
Most Unbeerlike: Berliner Weizen (really, do not try this without fruit or schnapps).
Most Distressingly Pleasant: Kronenbourg. This was a good “border beer” from Strasbourg. Technically French, it was first brewed in 1664
when Germany possessed the area. We were left nearly catatonic by the idea of a good “pseudo-French” beer.

These beers can be purchased at La Mart Deli and Wines on Sharon Amity in Charlotte. Most are also available
at Belk’s of Southpark. One of our favorites, Moravia, can be purchased at Natural Resources on Main Street.

One southern German celebration closely associated with beer consumption is Munich’s Oktoberfest. Oktoberfest began in 1811 as a combination horse
race and agricultural fair celebrating the second marriage of Bavaria’s Crown Prince Ludwig the Mad, builder of Neuschwanstein. Its popularity
continues today. Oktoberfest begins in mid-September and continues for two weeks, drawing to a close on the first Sunday in
October. Munich’s 14 local breweries (which are the only breweries allowed to serve beer during the celebration) produce a special,
sweeter beer for the occasion. Tents large enough to accommodate 4,000 people are erected by the breweries, and about 10
million liters of beer are consumed during the two-week period.

This column is written out of the concern that in a quest for quantities of beer people too often overlook
its qualities.
