Basketball wrap-up

By JOHN BURNS
The Wildcats have the 15th hardest schedule in the nation, according to USA Today. Here's a wrap-up of the games
since Christmas break...

UNCC 67 - Davidson 63

Ouch! This one hurt. An outgunned, underdog Wildcat team made it through the ice and snow to the Charlotte Coliseum
to play the 49ers on December 8.

The Cats came out blazing and pummeled UNCC in the first half, leading by as many as 17 points. Every
time the 49ers mounted a rally, the Wildcats snuffed it out with hot shooting by Paul Denmond and Magic Gaines.
The hopes of the relatively small Davidson crowd soared.

But the second half was painful to watch as the Cats continued to play well but could not stop the
‘Niners at several crucial points. Poor officiating also hurt the Wildcats, forcing Detlef Musch and Jay Schmitt to restrain their
play down the stretch. AJ Morgan said, “The calls weren’t too great, but we still had the opportunity to win,
and we just didn’t do it.”

That opportunity came with 6.2 seconds left on the NBA clock. Magic Gaines, who had played well all night, and
led the Cats with 16 points, misread the clock, thinking it read 02 seconds instead of 6.2. He forced a
shot from the foul line and missed. A UNCC player rebounded the shot and was fouled. The shooter hit both
shots and sealed the four-point victory for UNCC.

Duke 89 - Davidson 44

Christian Laettner, Alaa Abdelnaby, and Bobby Hurley put on a show at Belk Arena on December 21 as the 12th-ranked
Blue Devils blew by Davidson in front of a Christmas-break depleted crowd.

The Blue Devils, who normally score over 100 points per game, didn’t break 90, one of the few bright spots
of the night for the Wildcats.

Another bright spot was the play of sophomore Paul Denmond, who scored 12 points.

St. John’s 83 - Davidson 65

Denmond exploded for 23 points against the 18th ranked Redmen as Davidson gave a very respectable showing against one of
the Big East’s top teams. The inside game was impressive, as Detlef Musch pulled down seven rebounds and showed what
Coach McKillop called “flashes of brilliance.”

The Cats played tough throughout the game and finished much closer to St. John’s than most teams have this season.

UNC-Asheville 61 - Davidson 56

The Cats then returned to North Carolina to face a tough UNCA, which held an 11-game winning streak at home.
The streak soon went to 12. The Wildcats hit only 39 percent for the night. Paul Denmond led all scorers
with 14. Jay Schmitt totaled 11 rebounds, possibly because of the number of missed shots put up by the Cats.

It was the beginning of a brutal two-game slump.

Campbell 81 - Davidson 54

27 percent shooting, Denmond sole double-figure scorer with 13. No comment.

Furman 60 - Davidson 57

Detlef Musch and the Wildcats came alive in the Belk Arena on Thursday night and gave a very good Furman
team a tough battle before once again falling at the end. Musch had 18 points on eight of nine shootings,
he showed an amazing array of left-handed hooks and fade-away jumpers. The rest of the team also played well in
the effort. Both teams threw the ball away numerous times down the stretch. Davidson once again had several opportunities to
put the Paladins away, after leading the whole game. But the Cats couldn’t find the net after the two-minute mark.

Furman hit a crucial free throw with under 20 seconds left to go up by three. The Cats then, bewilderingly,
left their tall, slower lineup in with 10 seconds left. JD Heuer missed a three-point shot with three seconds left
and Furman escaped with a win.

Thursday, January 18, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

RAFTERS RESTAURANT

Serving the best in traditional Southern foods — The Best Steaks, Chicken Grills, Seafood, Hamburgers, and Fresh Vegetables.

EARLY EATERS' SPECIAL Daily WEEKDAYS 5-6:30 -- $4.75

Serving Lunch Tues-Fri. 11:00-2:00

Live Entertainment Tuesday with Bobby Parker; Thursday and Saturday Nights with Vince Koob, featuring songs of James Taylor, Mike Cross
as well as original compositions.

Thursday Night is College Night! SHOW A COLLEGE I.D. AND GET 1/2 PRICE APPETIZERS AND DISCOUNTS ON BEER

761 N. Main St. Mooresville 704/663/7322 Come Join In the Fellowship Of the Rafters.

PICTURE PERFECT PROCESSING In as little as One hour.

High Quality Developing, Portraits, Black & White, Slides, Copying Old Prints, Enlargements are a few of our services. We offer
a 24-hour drop box and welcome commercial accounts.

Free Second Prints (Limit two rolls with this ad) Only For Davidson Students With Valid Davidson I.D.

20619 Torrence Chapel Rd, Southlake Shopping Center Between Roses and Harris Teeter

1 hr. Photo Inc. (704) 892-5400

HOURS: M-F 10-8 Sat. 10-5

Cornelius, NC 28031 Little Bit Faster...A Whole Lot Better
