Thursday, February 22, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

3

Phi Beta Kappa members listed

New Phi Beta Kappa members were chosen February 12, 1990. Congratulations to the following:

Andrew John Addison
Brian Henry Asbill
Stephen Wesley Bayles
Mary Gretchen Beal
David Wilkinson Bell, IV
Mathijs Henri Brentjens
Elizabeth Carey Bryan
Kevin Lee Burns
Michael Bain Butcher
Julie Lynn Earles
John Haden Eckbert
Stephanie Layne Fannin
Marion Boyd Gillespie
Ajita Grewal
Therese Marie Gyauch
Virginia Childs Hall
Warren Tracy Hankins
Henry Lytle Harrell, II
Douglas Alan Hicks
Katherine Janice Janiec
Sarah Kristin S. Johnson
Elizabeth Allen Kennedy
Kent Williams Kercher
Krista Lee Kirk
Habib George Kurani
Joseph Girard Louderback, IV
Hasan Ahmed Malik
Kirsten Elisa Morrill
Patrick Shannon Mullen
William Bruce Newsome
Ann Fowler Omura
Jennifer Lanier Payne
Sarah Elizabeth Powell
Donald Joel Snell, Jr.
Thomas Ross Tolbert
Sarah Elizabeth Whitesell
Mary Adair Woodall
Stephanie E. Wyatt

Plans for the new art complex on drawing board; ground breaking slated for summer/fall

By KATHERINE COOKE

Plans are underway for the new visual arts building, and construction will begin sometime in the late summer or early
fall. As part of the Campaign for Davidson, this facility will be a major improvement for the visual arts department,
which currently occupies a part of Cunningham Fine Arts building.

The present facilities are very inadequate. Offices for five professors are crammed into a space originally meant for one professor.

According to art professor Herb Jackson, offices were created out of coat and broom closets. “We've simply adapted to the
space we had,” Jackson stated.

With the new facility, the only adapting to be done will be to the change from occupying 5,000 square feet
to occupying upwards of 40,000.

The structure will not be huge, but it will house only the visual arts department. This will not only be
an expansion for that department, but also for the theater and music departments, who will move into the vacated space
in Cunningham.

It is expected that this new facility will attract more prospective art majors to Davidson. Jackson cited as an example
Furman University, where the applicant pool doubled as a result of a new art facility.

Jackson also believes that the expanded resources will entice more current students to enroll in art courses. Classes currently fill
up easily, but with the expansion in physical size will come a faculty expansion in the form of one more
professor who will teach sculpture and drawing. As a result, there will be more lower-level courses offered.

Jackson is hopeful that if construction begins late next summer or early next fall, the facility will be available for
use by the first semester of 1991.

Forums to address elections, human rights

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

In response to the significant developments in Central America, the Dean Rusk Program is sponsoring Central America Week—a symposium aimed
at raising the awareness of the region’s dynamics. Targeting students, faculty, and the community, the week-long exchange of ideas commenced
on the 21st of February and features a lineup of distinguished speakers.

The program intends to explore the distinguishing aspects of Central America through a series of lectures, films, and discussions, and
coincides with a momentous event in Nicaragua—the upcoming elections on Sunday, February 25th.

The trio of speakers brings a vast amount of experience and perspective to the podium. Miguel Bernal was banished from
Panama in 1987, founded an opposition newspaper, was a Fulbright Scholar, and taught at Davidson. Wayne Smith has 25 years
of experience with the State Department and was former Chief of Missions at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, Cuba.
And Arturo Cruz, Jr.’s encounters with both political poles in Nicaragua will shed light on the elections.

The symposium’s program ranges from political and religious issues to social and cultural. Junior Wendy Dunn, who is chiefly responsible
for the symposium’s conception, believes a comprehensive approach to Central America “allows a broader range of perspective from which to
formulate ideas,” and hopes that some of the “ignorance in matters taking place in our own hemisphere,” will dissolve.

SGA Category III Election Results

SGA President—Doug Jobe
SGA V.P.—Kristi Kessler
CCRL—Ellen Crawford, Anthony Foxx

Student Conduct Council—
Marjorie Havinghurst, Gigi Cooke

Review Board—Doug Long

Sophomore Honor Council—
Erin Lee, Anthony Foxx, Matt Bumstead

Junior Honor Council—
Mimi Plauche, Karen Nall, Lee Canipe

Senior Honor Council—
Margaret Carroll, LaClaire Williams, Kearns Davis, Fernando Leyva

Schedule of Events

Mon 2/26
4:00 p.m. 900 Room
Central American Refugee: A Human Rights Perspective.
8:00 p.m. 900 Room
Dr. Wayne Smith, Former Chief of Mission U.S. Interests Section in Cuba

Tues 2/27
11 a.m. 900 Room
Worship: Focus on Central America
7:30 p.m. 900 Room
Mr. Arturo Cruz, Jr.
Why Elections in Nicaragua?

Wed 2/28
4 p.m. Morrison Room
John Eckbert, Wendy Dunn
Slide Presentation of Student Experiences in Nicaragua
7:30 p.m. Morrison Room
Panel: Profs. Kaylor, Johnson, and Shaw
