2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990

Quality of Life Report Published
Dozens of Recommendations Made
Courtesy of College Relations

In its final report issued last week, Davidson’s Task Force on Student Life made dozens of recommendations for actions that may make this campus a better place for students to live. Under the direction of Professor of Biology Jerry Putnam and senior student Bill Scouten, the 24-member task force took seven months to study the situation on campus and make its report.

The report was divided into the areas of academic life and community life. Community life comprised social interactions, religious life, dormitory life, campus security, Patterson Court, and personal health. No recommendations were listed as a higher priority than others, but recommendations were made in all areas of study.

In academic life, recommendations included: continued special efforts to recruit black students, faculty, and administrators; study of student complaints about the lack of openings in popular classes; implementation of gender studies and African-American studies courses; and improved advising.

In the field of social interactions, the college should: better educate students about the Code of Responsibility; address the concerns of ethnic minorities and international students; evaluate the operations of the Dean of Students office in terms of equal treatment of men and women; publicize results of Honor Code and Code of Responsibility hearings (without names); hold programs to sensitize students to racism and sexism; support efforts to establish a traditionally black fraternity on campus; and hasten to complete renovation of Johnston Gym for the College Union.

In the field of religious life, the college should: explore the feasibility of opening a meditation chapel in the new College Union; reinstate an ecumenical council to coordinate religious activities on campus; and help integrate students into the life of Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

In the field of dormitory life, the college should: provide more quiet study areas; upgrade the quality of lounges; improve supervision of housekeeping and maintenance work; install emergency lighting; and study the availability of student parking, especially spaces convenient to classrooms.

In the field of campus security, the college should: evaluate the present dorm access system; assure quick response to reports of defective locks on doors and windows; implement an SGA-suggested lighting proposal; give students active security education; and establish a patrolling routine for security officers.

In the field of Patterson Court activity, the college should: hire an advisor to help houses adhere to the current alcohol policy and ensure responsible drinking; institute a regular program of alcohol education; establish a special task force to analyze the role of alcohol on campus and study the appropriateness of the present alcohol policy; establish a special task force to study the present self-selection system.

In the field of personal health, the college should: reorganize the counseling center to include two full-time and one part-time counselor; extend services in the infirmary; provide more privacy and accommodations for women's health problems in the infirmary; and provide educational programs through the infirmary about nutrition, AIDS, and sexually transmitted diseases.

Besides Scouten, students on the task force were Ben Cardwell, George Gabel, Molly Graves, Tripp Helms, Josh Hickman, Vanessa Lou Ye.

Photo courtesy of College Relations
Members of the Environmental Action Committee were responsible for last week's celebration of Mother Earth.

Unique Agreement with Carolinas Medical Supports College Program
Tong to Coordinate Program for Medical Humanities

With several Davidson students gathered around a male patient’s bedside, Dr. Ronald Follmer asked him to speak. The patient's response was slurred and barely comprehensible. Outside in the hallway, Follmer explained to the students that the neurological impairment to the patient’s voice box could be a symptom of Lou Gehrig’s disease. One way to test that possibility, Follmer said, was to run a nerve conduction test, and he took the students to his lab and hooked himself up to a computerized electromyograph to demonstrate the procedure. It was a neurology lesson that was undoubtedly more effectively learned in the midst of a bustling hospital than in the quiet of a campus classroom.

That sort of opportunity for study in a working hospital is a key component of Davidson’s medical humanities concentration, according to Dr. Lance Stell, professor of philosophy and director of Davidson’s medical humanities concentration. Davidson Professor of Psychology John Brockway has taken students in his bioengineering and health technologies class to the hospital for six years. Brockway will spend his sabbatical year, beginning in June, at the hospital doing a study on memory loss in relation to magnetic resonance scanning. Lance Stell, professor of philosophy, has been at the hospital this year during his sabbatical as...its first resident medical ethicist and as a member of its ethics committee. Julio Ramirez, assistant professor of psychology, has been taking students in his neuroscience seminar to the hospital for three years, and Don Kimmel, professor of Long, Mary Russ, Harry Schiavi, D.J. Snell, Mark Wainwright, and LaClaire Williams.

Med School Discussed
By GEORGE LAFAYE

Last week the Pre-Med Society presented a talk from Lois Pounds of the Duke Medical School on the best strategies for those interested in progressing to a medical school after graduation. Pounds asserted that professor recommendations and type of activities have greater importance than small differences in grade-point averages or standardized test scores. This is done to avoid discriminating against students at challenging schools where a B+ average may mean more than at other colleges.

Pounds suggested that activities which show a real concern for other people count for more than a large list of activities that indicate a student bucking for acceptance to a post-graduate school. As for specific numbers, Pounds said that these were too limiting and that at Duke they try to look at the whole person. She said that students with a 3.0 or better grade-point average and double-digit Medical College Admissions Test scores stood on about equal ground, with recommendations and personal characteristics making the difference in all the cases. She also pointed out that it is not necessary to be a science major to be admitted to medical school. In fact, she believes that an outside major indicates a person more willing to learn and develop.

A new environment is now available to Davidson students as a result of a unique agreement that the college and the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Hospital Authority recently signed. The agreement pledges that the two institutions will exchange faculty and students, share laboratory facilities and speakers, and engage in joint research projects and fund-raising efforts. The agreement gives a substantial boost to the college’s new biomedical sciences and medical humanities programs. Robert Williams, Davidson's vice president for academic affairs, said, “The agreement gives us a connection to real-world medicine on an organized and ongoing basis.” It also essentially formalizes several years of informal interchange between Davidson and the Carolinas Medical Center (formerly Charlotte Memorial Hospital).

Hospital faculty members have frequently spoken at Davidson to students in Rosemarie Tong’s medical ethics classes. Tong is orthopedics students at the hospital. The hospital will employ seven Davidson students as laboratory assistants this summer. In addition, the two institutions have co-sponsored lectures by several notable medical humanities experts, as well as the annual Speas Colloquium in medical humanities. Brockway explained, “The two institutions have a mutual interest in education and promoting the highest quality healthcare. It eases and facilitates things if we have an arrangement to foster interaction.” He said this represents a wonderful opportunity for Davidson students. “Our students will be able to see in a very complicated social milieu many academic disciplines coming to bear on a common problem — human health. There’s economics, technology, engineering, statistics, which is at the heart of it all is human decision making. The outcome is the quality of someone’s life. That exposure is a wonderful dimension to a liberal arts education.”

According to Dr. Bill Williams, director of Charlotte Area Health Center and senior vice president for medical education and research at the hospital, Davidson offers his group some attractive resources as well. He explained that the hospital has a full-time faculty of 55 who teach 130 residents. There are also more than 200 medical students, most of whom attend UNC-Chapel Hill Medical School. In January the state designated Carolinas Medical Center as an academic medical center teaching hospital, one of only five statewide. With that has come a determination to expand its basic science research. Williams said Davidson faculty members and students will help the hospital faculty with basic research projects.

With the medical humanities concentration, Davidson is taking an unusual step for an undergraduate school, and we have a research effort here that you don’t traditionally find in a community hospital. It seems to me that both institutions are stepping toward each other with these non-traditional programs. We believe the relationship will make more out of community resources than either could alone.

Davidson has a rich heritage of pre-medical training, and the new medical humanities program updates that emphasis. Tong, who was national professor of the year in 1986, said that Davidson is one of a handful of undergraduate colleges in the nation with such a program. Her job is to coordinate course development, speakers, and the new agreement with Carolinas Medical Center into a comprehensive whole that will give Davidson students an overview of the complex picture of modern medicine.

Though medical humanities Continued on Page 3