THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990 7

David Thompson | Rude Notes & Scribblings

Students, Stand Up For Your Rights: We Can't Have Firearms

I, like most of you, got a little tired of the dead space in The Davidsonian, and so I decided
in collaboration with the new regime to write a semi-weekly column so that we might be spared further documentation of
Sig Ep road trips. Thank me at your convenience.

Anyway, this column probably won't please everyone. It’s certainly not for Puckettheads (an eloquent defense of the inner beauty of
smokers is planned for the fall), and those who can actually say the words “President Reagan” with a straight face
might not find me all that funny. I intend to direct my comments to rational people with a slightly warped
sense of humor. Any of you who agree that both of America’s Jesses should be institutionalized for the public good
will, hopefully, enjoy what I have to say. (Those of you who would find a secret delight in their sharing
a cell will definitely enjoy it more.)

Now that I’ve introduced myself, let’s start with those issues. The Residence Life Office of Davidson College, as stated in
our housing contracts, refuses to allow the students to keep firearms in their rooms. You should be outraged! Have you
no concept of liberty? How dare the college claim that we are being taught and treated as adults if they
won’t let us keep a .38 in the closet? How do they expect us to have any fun? Know they
not the joy that comes from nailing the clock on the north side of Chambers from the fourth floor of
Belk? Can they not understand the thrill of squeezing off a few rounds outside a fraternity homecoming party? Obviously not.
They don’t even let us keep a puny .22 on campus. The R.O.T.C. people get machine guns, while the rest
of us aren't even allowed the occasional bottle rocket to relieve the stress of student life. Stand up for your
rights fellow students! Buy a gun today!

Letter of apology to follow each installment:
Please forgive me for my thoughtless and rather callous remarks dated ___. The subject of ___ is very serious indeed,
certainly not something to be taken lightly or mocked. My comments were made in jest, and I did not attempt
to offend any readers.
Sincerely,
D.A. Thompson
P.S. Lighten Up!

SGGL handling

Hey, Speidel, Goodrich, Gogan, Lille miss playing at Davidson and want to announce the release of their next album "Heading
South, SGGL Live at the Birchmere." Album release performance at Hollins College on this Sunday, April 29 at 1 p.m.
If you can't be there, order the cassette by mail: 3903 N. Tacoma St. Arlington, Va, 22213. Send $10 plus
$2.50 postage. For booking information call John Livermore at (703) 532-6033.

Questions, Advice and Burble

SARAH BAYNE ‘90

Before I take the final walk down the aisle that leads to the “real world” I would like to take
this time to pass on a few words of advice, raise some questions, and burble about life at Davidson...

* Why, if the student body is obviously supportive of recycling, doesn’t the Commons have any recycling facilities? At a
dinner I catered recently, the contents of many, many wine bottles were imbibed in a spirit of jocularity, yet Carleton
Pritchard made no effort to recycle any of them. (And unfortunately Jennifer Longest was not there to make sure that
these bottles found their way into a red recycling bin, as she normally does when catering.)On Pritchard, wake up and
smell the Diet Coke—recycle. * Listen to your mother. And your father. And your grandparents. And then figure out what
is right for you. * Minus grades would be a bad idea. Davidson students are neurotic enough about grades as
it is. * Why is The Davidsonian editorial board all male now? * Learn and obey the Code of Responsibility.
* Why not name the apartments North, East, and South? * Come to “Celebrating 18 Years of Women at Davidson”
FAC. Friday, April 27th, 2-5 p.m. Union Patio. Free food and drink. Dancing, music, and writings of Davidson’s women. *
Support the arts. We’re entering a visual age. * Why are prospectives told that the fraternities are self-selected? * Why
do both the Commons and the Union Cafe insist on using styrofoam cups, trays, etc.? Even McDonald's has paper cups.
I’d rather deal with a little condensation on my Coca-Cola than have to use a container that will not break
down until... well until our yellow sun turns into a big red star, swallowing our disposable diaper, styrofoam-infested world. *
Don’t run/walk/jog alone at night (male or female). Bring a friend or stick to the track. * Condoms can now
be found in the First Aid cabinets in the hall bathrooms (for those of you who have not yet noticed
them). * The existence of chocolate proves there is a God. * Study abroad for at least one semester (preferably
a year). * One day, you too will graduate. * When will the Bookstore start selling recycled paper products (other
than greeting cards)? * Davidson needs a female police officer. * Why was the minus grade referendum scheduled for the
same night as concert choir? Is the SGA aware that such scheduling undermines the activities of their constituents? * Ruth
Pittard and Debby Sink know just everything concerning the college. If you have any questions, one of the two of
them will usually have the answer. * Will the Trustees ever divest? Why are some of them members of country
clubs that discriminate based on race, sex, or religion? * What is Doug Jobe doing as president? Is he really
following through on his campaign promises? Does he really and truly care about student concerns? What is he doing with
the SGA budget? * Will M&M Soda Shop ever be open again? * Will Baker Sports Complex ever be a
fully opened reality? * Why is Tom Gattiker (a.k.a. Mr. Union Cafe) reluctant to continue the great discount on soda
refilled in the recycling cup? Are profit margins more important than helping the earth? Students will not use the cups
as often unless there is a significant amount of money at stake. Keep the 35 cent (at the most 40
cent) refill price. * Ray Thrower is doing a fantastic job as new Davidson College police chief. Everywhere you look
these days you see a Cushman on patrol. * Bring back the term system! * Davidson needs a supermarket. *
For the last time... girls and boys, ladies and gentlemen, men and women... BUT NOT GUYS AND GIRLS. * Don’t
worry. Be happy. Good luck to all you Davidsonians and to quote the pop culture icon Dennis Miller... I am
outta here!

Sarah Canadine Bayne is a senior English major from Simsbury, Connecticut.

Former Davidson student looking for new roommate in Washington D.C. area. 15 minute drive to downtown; bus and metro nearby.
For summer and permanent residence. Call Mulherns at 892-5303 or Meg in D.C. at (703) 207-0346 for more information.
