THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990

Priscilla Fullerton will perform at Davidson

Musical Haiku Highlights Concert

By CARLA WALKER

The Davidson College Department of Music presents “Twentieth Century American Piano Music” performed by Priscilla Fullerton on Monday, October 29. The concert will begin at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

A highlight of this concert will be its closing work, Haiku Sonata for Piano, composed by the college’s composer in residence, Wilmer Hayden Welsh. Haiku Sonata for Piano is a highly unusual work that takes its name from an ancient form of Japanese poetry called the haiku. The haiku consists of seventeen syllables arranged in three lines of five, seven, and five syllables each. These highly structured poems must be written subtly to deal with a subject from nature and to present the poet’s objective reaction to it.

In Welsh’s piece, the same subtle ideas are conveyed through musical transitions of four separate, but related haikus. He created the composition by arranging the twelve notes of the chromatic scale into three distinct patterns known as twelve-tone rows. Welsh comments that it is an “effort on my part to convey, through music, the objective reality common to us all.”

Patricia Fullerton said that she had never played a haiku for piano before she worked with Welsh on his Haiku Sonata for Piano. She has performed it once in Pennsylvania and said the audience “received it well” and that she “looks forward to performing the piece for more colleges.” Fullerton describes Welsh’s haiku as “an aesthetic though indescribable experience,” much like “staring in awe at a beautiful sunset and then trying to express what you see and feel.”

The opening work, Polychrome, a Suite for Piano, is also by Welsh. It derives its name from the Greek word “polychromen,” meaning “many colors.” This term lends itself to Welsh’s work of powerful background colors through two precomposed aspects of the work. The first is a rhythm which is governed by twelve dances arranged in three groups of four. The second aspect is the use of twelve-tone rows, the compositional technique identical to that of his Haiku Sonata for Piano.

In addition to Welsh’s works, Priscilla Fullerton will also perform Ross Lee Finney’s Fantasy, John Powell’s Sonata Teutonica, and The Vale of Dreams by Charles T. Griffes.

Welsh received a B.S. from Johns Hopkins University, and a bachelor of music and a master of music from the Peabody Conservatory. He was awarded the prestigious diploma in organ performance from the Peabody. He is known both as an organist and a composer. He has played recitals in many parts of the country, often presenting programs comprised entirely of his own pieces. He has written more than 140 compositions, some of which have been performed in Europe and Asia, as well as the United States. They include several operas, two concerti, preludes, sonatas, and two symphonies. He became a member of the faculty and college organist at Davidson College in 1963. In 1972, he was appointed the professor of music, and in 1976 he received the Thomas Jefferson Award for outstanding teaching. In recognition of his contribution to music, Davidson named him “composer in residence” in 1987.

Priscilla Fullerton is associate professor of music at Edinboro University of Pennsylvania. A graduate of the Cleveland Institute of Music and the University of Illinois, she has studied with Dean Sanders, Eugene List, Grant Johannesen, and Jorge Bolet. Since her debut in New York at the Carnegie Recital Hall in 1979, she has performed extensively throughout the eastern and midwestern United States. Her specialties include works of both American and women composers.

For more information on the concert, call the Union at -2140.

Sanchez Continued from Page 1

of the day, Sanchez evoked great emotion from the students. “She added fire to the class,” Dr. Long said. The class ended with a circle of students, hand in hand, each student expressing what he or she was thinking and feeling. Many of the students voiced their desire for a professor like Sanchez at Davidson. Sophomore Carey Stewart said, “She was the best and most influential speaker I’ve heard since I’ve been at Davidson.”

Presently, Sanchez holds the Laura Carnell Chair in English at Temple University in Philadelphia. She has won numerous awards including the 1985 American Book Award, the 1984 Lucretia Mott Award, the 1988 Pennsylvania Governor’s Award for Excellence in the Humanities, and the 1988 Peace and Freedom Award from the Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom.

Sanchez says she uses words to “erase pain.” She writes of personal dealings with the death of her grandmother at age six and the stuttering that resulted from that trauma. She also deals with racism, sexism, child abuse, drug abuse, the death of her brother from AIDS, and any other issue about which she feels passionate. Her appeal is universal. As Dr. Long said, “Her commitment is to understand, accept and know who you are, and only then see each other clearly.”

Allison Continued from Page 3

theory, he said that in February 1917, no one would have heard of people. The final alternative, which he regarded as being possibly most likely, was chaos, resulting from the continuing collapse of authority until no chains of command continue to exist. He called this the “Lebanization of the Soviet Union.” An ominous possibility that he suggested might happen under such a scenario would be the usage of nuclear weapons by a bellicose group.

A Charlotte native, Allison attended Davidson, fromHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

which his brother graduated, for two years before being recruited to play football at Harvard, from which he graduated. In 1977 he became dean of the Kennedy School, and under his approximately decade-long leadership, the faculty increased from 12 to 85 and the endowment went from $20 million to about $450 million. Among those who have taught there are Geraldine Ferraro and Michael Dukakis.

Houses Continued from Page 1

ments, additional bathrooms (handicapped accessible), serviced kitchen appliances, new windows, new roofing (if necessary), and new ceilings. Optional renovations include additional kitchen appliances, and a ramp for the handicapped. At the October 15 meeting, a lottery system determined the order in which houses would be worked on. Kappa Sigma will be the first to relocate to the soon to be completed ATO house. Collins estimates that it will take four to six weeks to complete each renovation. Those houses not finished by the end of this school year are expected to be during the summer. The order of renovation is as follows: Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha, Black Student Coalition, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Rusk House, Warner Hall House, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha Order, and Spencer House.

Collins suggested that a committee be formed within the house to present alternatives to the renovations. Cindy Coppola will meet with each committee to help with interior design. “We will allow some uniqueness within each house as long as basic parameters are covered, such as proper security and health needs,” Collins said. Once costs are determined for a house, Collins will solicit local contractors to submit bids for the project. Collins mentioned that work quality, and ability to complete jobs on time and at cost will be the main criteria in choosing a contractor.

Collins stressed the importance of house maintenance after the renovations are finished. “I have a responsibility to try to ensure that we provide a healthy safe environment, but I am not a policeman, nor do I want to be,” Collins said. “I come down pretty hard sometimes, but I’m out for you.”

Alcohol Continued from Page 1

acoustic music performed by student bands and a bonfire at midnight. Chaplain Chuck Hasty said he hoped the dry events would provoke students to consider the possibilities of having fun without alcohol. In addition to dry court parties, the parents and alumni who will be visiting this weekend will not be served alcohol at any college-related affairs. Approximately 350 students signed pledges agreeing to stay dry this week. “We’re very pleased with the number of pledges signed,” said Hasty. According to him, the week has been very successful in getting people to discuss alcohol on campus openly.

A panel discussion addressing perceptions of alcohol at Davidson was held Wednesday afternoon. The panel included two freshmen, Alice Spivey and John Ogle; Tom Larson, a member of Patterson Court, Bob Hornsby, an independent; Prem Manjooran, an international student; and Dr. Leland Park, a faculty member. Most agreed that alcohol plays a major role in social life at Davidson, but were unsure whether the role was too extreme. “It’s obvious to anyone who goes down on the Court that it (alcohol) is a central thing. The biggest crowd is around the stairs waiting to get a beer,” Hornsby said. Larson said that except for band parties, almost all the money spent for court parties goes towards buying beer. “I’ve witnessed fear in houses to throw a non-alcoholic party, because they’re afraid it won’t go over. Basically, people are saying they don’t think they can have fun without alcohol,” Larson said.

The group almost unanimously felt there was little peer pressure put on students to drink, but by virtue of the number of people drinking, many students drank anyway. “I’ve seen people at parties with a beer that’s gone warm in their hand and they haven’t even taken a sip out of it, but they still have it,” Manjooran said. “There’s a feeling that drinking is a new problem and it’s not. It’s been around forever and it is very much a part of our society,” Park said. Park feels the increased discussion of alcohol’s role in life at Davidson is a move forward from the days when alcohol consumption was not discussed.

The group felt that the Court was blamed too much for its role in providing alcohol to students. Manjooran said alcohol is available on freshmen halls, and to those not at Court parties. Larson said that although some parties on the Court are centered around drinking, that’s not what the Court is all about. Larson said, “There is so much more that goes on down there besides drinking. The Court is about brotherhood and sisterhood.”

Many on the panel expressed the feeling that students are becoming more responsible towards drinking. Students going to the Pub have designated drivers, as do many fraternities in case of the likely event that someone should feel the need to go to Bacon ‘n’ Eggs at four in the morning. It was noted that the increased awareness of alcohol’s role in date rape has caused many students to be more careful about their drinking. The group felt that not having alcohol was not a solution to any problems that might exist. “Not having alcohol anywhere limits people from learning how to use it,” said Larson, “Part of being at Davidson is learning how to deal with different people in different situations, including one where alcohol is being consumed.”