Wednesday, March 28, 1990  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

The arts at Davidson: Credit where it’s due

Dear Editors,

I would like to make a few comments concerning an article that appeared in a recent Davidsonian. The article “Friends of the Arts: Culture in our Town” begins “Davidson College could soon become a beacon of light for the arts in the community if the Friends of the Arts program has its way.” There is nothing particularly wrong with this beginning except that it misrepresents the truth. In many ways, Davidson is already a beacon of light for the community without the help of the Friends of the Arts program.

The College Union has brought many fine artists to this community and continues to bring them without soliciting for donations. The money comes from student activity fees and everyone is encouraged to attend. Perhaps you remember a few notable or recent performances: Wynton Marsalis, Sweet Honey in the Rock, Doc Watson, Shakespeare’s Macbeth, Do-Lord, and Eugene Fodor have all come to Davidson. There are many more. These performances are well attended by the community. They are all produced by the students, faculty, and staff that make up the Union. In fact, the Kalichstein-Laredo-Robinson trio that kicks off the Friends of the Arts program is co-produced by the Union. The Artists Series that the Friends of the Arts promises ten percent discounts to is produced solely by the Union and financed by student activity fees.

Don’t misunderstand my intentions. I have no problem with the Friends of the Arts program which assists the music, theater, and arts programs. These departments have fine programs that can be even better with more funds. I applaud the new effort to find needed funds for these departments. I am perplexed, however, by this development office program which is not focused on finding support for the existing performing arts programs and by The Davidsonian’s failure to recognize the existence of these already existing student-run performing arts programs. Students have been producing performing arts events for 25 years usually without the help of the music, theater, or arts departments. In organizing their program, the Friends of the Arts planners need to appreciate the past and present achievements of students. I am excited about the Friends of the Arts and urge them to integrate their efforts into the already established student-run programming. I also urge The Davidsonian to give credit where credit is due.

Sincerely,
Ward Bradley, ‘90

A new publication to hit dorms

Dear Davidson Students,

As some of you may know, the college has made a transition in alumni publications from the old Davidson Update to the new Davidson Journal, a quarterly magazine. The first issue should be delivered to your hall room this week. Yes, that’s right, delivered to your room! And you don’t even have to tip the delivery service, fellow students with work-study jobs in our office.

We have changed our distribution system in an effort to help the college save money. In the past, we mailed students. That was more convenient but also more expensive as well. And it resulted in waste, as some copies ended up in the trash cans at the Post Office. (Hard to believe, but true!). From now on, we intend to distribute Davidson Journals internally to all members of the Davidson community. For students, we are going to try delivering one copy per room, in the hopes that roommates will share it. Rest assured, however, that extra copies will be available for those who want them, both for this and subsequent issues. Just call me or drop by Copeland House if you’re interested.

Although the primary audiences for Davidson Journal are alumni, parents, and friends of the college, we hope you will find it of interest, too. With hard work and a bit of luck, you will become loyal alumni someday (we hope). Then the college will start asking you for money. So enjoy!it while you can. Your parents all receive copies of the Journal, too, and will continue to do so. So during the summer you'll receive one issue for the entire family at home. What a bargain! In the meantime, hope this new system works out here in the community. Please let me know if you have questions.

Sincerely,
Jerry Stockdale
Director of College Relations

Basketball says “thank you”
To the Editor:

The basketball team and coaching staff extend their gratitude to the many fans who stuck beside us amidst our trying and frustrating season. The encouraging words and the vocal support from faculty, staff, administrators, and students remained ever-present sources of inspiration. Even when we found ourselves away from Belk Arena, we had the pleasure of looking into the stands and seeing the familiar faces of so many Wildcat fans. Special thanks to those who organized the bus trip to the Furman game. Our seniors will always cherish the memory of the fond farewell that they received at the final home game. The underclassmen will be seeking to earn your plaudits as they shoot for their goal of becoming the team that had the greatest turnaround in NCAA Division I history. We all are ever grateful for your support and inspiration.

Most sincerely,
Bob McKillop, the Coaching Staff, and the Team

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, News Editor
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
Bruce Balestier, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Farewell reminders

This editorial marks the end of a year's worth of interviewing people, staying up extremely late, and ignoring the headache like the one that's presently threatening to express itself. The new editors have all our blessings as they embark on this journey of being a jack-of-all-trades. There are several concerns which will remain an issue here once we're gone and hopefully students will continue to remind those in power that Davidson, in spite of its excellent points, needs to work on those areas which are less commendable.

Davidson has yet to improve campus lighting to the degree that it is needed. Fears about safety are relevant even in this small town. Will it take another rape or a mugging for money to be redirected from athletic priorities to safety? The college has some responsibility in assuring that all is done to prevent such occurrences.

It has been months since the proposal to establish a historically Black fraternity was first made. Davidson has an unhealthy fear of the unknown in this regard and the responses to this idea reflect that attitude. Fear of the unknown is bred from an ignorance that some have overcome but that the majority refuse to face or correct. Since some of us are of different backgrounds than the majority, it would make sense that our upbringing has differed in certain respects. That is a given. Cultural tastes are nothing to be feared, nor denied. Rather, they should be celebrated and shared. The message that Davidson is giving is that it doesn't want to share in an African-American tradition because those who partake in it will be separating themselves from the whole. One may still be a part of the whole while retaining unique attributes. There is a contradiction to Davidson's argument considering that the college has granted African-American females permission to affiliate with a historically Black sorority—although a formal chapter will not exist on campus. How are they separating themselves less than men? The coming weeks will be revelatory of Davidson's stance on a move that can be beneficial to everyone.

Minus grades? Most seniors are worried about minus jobs or minus workable plans. It's been a good but tough four years.