THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990 Sports 13

Baseball
Photo by Ed Matthews
Dutch player Rob Eenhoorn makes it safely to base. Eenhoorn leads Davidson in homers (6), RBIs (32), hits (54), and batting (.365).

Baseball
The Wildcat baseball team struggled to a 4-4 record over the past ten days, in what was probably their toughest stretch of the year, with three games against nationally ranked opponents. They began on March 28 by traveling to Boone to play the Mountaineers of Appalachian State. Despite relatively solid pitching from junior Dave Williams (7 innings, 3 runs, 11 hits), the ‘Cats were only able to reach base on six singles, which produced just two runs. The final tally was 5-2.

If you missed the April 1 doubleheader against the 20th ranked Citadel Bulldogs, you missed what were arguably the two best games of the season. In the first game, Davidson jumped out to a 5-0 lead after two innings, but the Bulldogs came back to tie the game at 5-5. The Wildcats then scored two runs in the bottom of the sixth inning to take a 7-5 lead. The Bulldogs tied the game again in the top of the seventh inning, but Davidson won the game in the bottom of the seventh inning on a walk-off single by Mikio Aoki.

In the second game, Davidson took a 2-0 lead in the first inning, but the Bulldogs scored four runs in the second inning to take a 4-2 lead. Davidson tied the game at 4-4 in the third inning, but the Bulldogs scored three runs in the fourth inning to take a 7-4 lead. Davidson scored two runs in the fifth inning to cut the lead to 7-6, but the Bulldogs scored two runs in the sixth inning to take a 9-6 lead. Davidson scored one run in the seventh inning to cut the lead to 9-7, but the Bulldogs held on to win the game.

On Friday, Davidson traveled to Durham to meet the Duke Blue Devils for the second time this season. Duke won the first game at Davidson by the score of 2-0, but, in keeping with the recent offensive tradition, Duke and Davidson combined for 29 hits and 18 runs. Despite the fact that the Wildcats had ace Greg Wilcox on the mound, they lost the game 10-8.

Men's Tennis
Men's Tennis Struggles
By ROBERT GRUBB

Saturday, March 31 wasn’t a complete loss for the men’s tennis team; at least they didn’t miss the NCAA basketball Final Four on television. After being swept 6-0 in singles by the Buccaneers of East Tennessee State, the team opted not to play the doubles. Said coach Jeff Frank, “We were forced to play inside, and their indoor courts are really poor, so we decided to get back in the vans and get back home and watch the basketball.”

The team also suffered a tough loss last week at the hands of Wake Forest. Only Albie Varoski managed to win for the Wildcats, who lost overall 5-1 in singles. Varoski, who has been playing well lately, also lost a close two-set match against ETSU. Charles Jordan and Kurtis Zabell also turned in strong performances against the Bucs.

Frank seemed a bit concerned with the play of the team, since two weeks of crucial matches loomed on the horizon. “The matches against UNCC and the next two weeks will make or break our season record.” Unfortunately, the three UNC schools scored a hat trick over the ‘Cats. The three defeats put hopes for a 17th consecutive winning season in serious jeopardy. UNC-G defeated Davidson 5-3 in a close match, winning the deciding match at #1 doubles in a third set tiebreaker. The Davidson team allowed their opponents to get back in the match by giving up consecutive service breaks in the third set. Nonetheless, coach Jeff Frank was not as disappointed with the doubles play as he was with the poor singles play. “The singles didn’t play as well as I thought they were capable of playing,” said Frank. “As a result, we didn’t enter the doubles in the position we had hoped.”

Frank’s disappointment with the singles play continued against UNCC. “I think that some of the guys are in a slump that they will be able to play out of,” commented Frank. “The doubles were a bright spot though.” Frank used some new doubles combinations against UNC-Chapel Hill in an effort to set the ship straight. But Carolina, which has been ranked among the nation’s top 25 teams, turned out not to be the place for the Wildcats to pull out of their slump. Albie Varoski and Dale Voeks teamed up to win five straight games in the second set to clinch the only victory in an 8-1 loss.

Frank, in planning his lineup for the end of this season, is looking ahead to next season. “If Albie and Dale continue to play well together, they could be a possible combination for next year, in addition to Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer, who have played together for two years,” he said. “I also hope to get some of the singles players out of their slumps before the season-ending tournament.”

The scheduled match against Pfeiffer has been moved to next week. The Wildcats’ only action of this week will be on Thursday at Elon.

Bruce Balestier / On the Sports FrontBest home games of the year, CR nse. Game one was a classic pitchers’ duel, as the Wildcats sent unbeaten senior Greg Wilcox to face the Citadel’s #1 hurler. Through three innings, both pitchers held the opposition scoreless, and Wilcox had faced the minimum nine batters. But Wilcox unraveled a bit in the fourth, when two Bulldogs found their way home. The Wildcats responded by manufacturing a run in their half of the fourth. Center fielder Ron Krnacik got things rolling with a leadoff triple, and a passed ball brought him streaking home to cut the deficit to 2-1. Unfortunately, that’s the way the game ended. Wilcox shut down the Bulldogs the rest of the way, but Davidson's offensive fireworks never materialized, despite placing the leadoff hitter on base in four of the seven innings. Wilcox thus suffered his first defeat of the 1990 campaign.

Dave Williams got the start in game two, but coach Stoeckel had seen enough by the middle of the fourth. By that time, the Citadel possessed a 5-3 lead and were threatening to add to it. He went to Derek Twombly, the 6'5" and were subsequently removed from the stands. When the rain delay ended, Davidson had a runner on first with no outs. As each successive batter strode to the plate, the ‘Cats edged closer to victory until, finally, with two outs, the bases were loaded for freshman shortstop Rob Eenhoorn. The freshman coolly stepped to the plate and slapped an infield single to propel Davidson to an 8-7 victory.

The game against Wake Forest on April 3 was another hitter’s dream; 29 hits and 18 runs jumped off the bats of both teams. Ron Krnacik (3 for 5), Mikio Aoki (3 for 5), and DH Joe Azzolino (2 for 3, 3 runs, 2 RBI, 1 HR) paced the Wildcats offensively. But it wasn’t enough. Four Davidson pitchers were unable to contain the Diamond Deacon bats, and the ‘Cats fell 11-7.

On April 4, the 12th ranked North Carolina Tar Heels came to town. The Wildcats were thirsty for their third triumph over a nationally ranked team. Eenhoorn started things off nicely by leading off the game with a homer for the fourth time this season. When the ‘Cats pushed another run across in the mound, the score was still tied at eight after six innings. But an unearned run in the seventh and an insurance run in the ninth gave Davidson a 10-8 victory. Shortstop Rob Eenhoorn and right fielder Rick Bender both went 4 for 5. Bender, Pete Hughes, and Mac Chapman provided support for the ‘Cats.

In Sunday’s doubleheader against North Carolina A&T, Davidson faced a young and inexperienced team. Dave Williams got the start in game one and notched his fifth victory of the season by pitching a four-hit, ten strikeout complete game. The 3-0 win was his third shutout of the season. Game two was a tight 6-5 ball game until the Wildcats opened it up with an eight-run sixth inning. Derek Twombly picked up the win in relief, and Brad Wanzenburg got his second save of the year. The sweep gave Davidson a 19-18-1 record with 14 games to play. Tuesday’s game at Wake Forest was postponed due to rain. The ‘Cats play at Lenoir-Rhyne Wednesday and travel to N.C. A&T to meet the Aggies in a twin bill on Saturday.

On Musberger and Davidson

Last Monday evening’s NCAA basketball championship game, which saw Nevada-Las Vegas crush Duke, 103-73, was the last event for Brent Musberger as a broadcaster for CBS Sports, and I cannot even express my extreme and utter joy at his departure. Musberger had become a fixture at CBS, heading their coverage of the Super Bowl, “The NFL Today,” the Masters, the NBA Finals, and the U.S. Open tennis tournament. He seemed the prime candidate, as well, to head CBS coverage of Major League Baseball, which begins this month. CBS and Musberger had been in the midst of contract negotiations before CBS’ announcement Sunday that the championship game would be the veteran announcer’s final assignment for the network. It appears, at this time, that Musberger’s demand for high-profile assignments brought on the move, but you know what they say: Don’t look a gift horse in the mouth. Any reason suffices, as far as I’m concerned.

For me, Musberger’s tenure at CBS was marked by the tendency to substitute inane and irrelevant commentary in place of any kind of useful or pertinent remarks about the particular contest he was covering. Musberger possesses only passable knowledge, at best, about the sports he covers, and contributes only drivel where insightful commentary is a necessity. It is my sincere hope that no other network picks him up; the viewing public has suffered enough.

Meanwhile, closer to home, it’s official; padding has arrived and has been installed on the upper intramural courts in the Baker Sports Complex. We now may utilize them to our hearts’ content, with the security of mind that accompanies a stringent standard of safety. The results of the 1st Annual Invitational Racquetball Tournament, held March 31 in Baker Sports Complex, continued on Page 14.