10
Lucia lets loose

Wednesday, January 31, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

When is it all right to be wronged?

Lucia Kendall

Let’s say you know a guy who occasionally will buy dinner for some of his close friends, or even give them cash if they’re broke. You know him fairly well, and one day you decide to ask him if he'll give you twenty bucks. He refuses. Is stealing the twenty dollars from him wrong?

Let’s say you're a beggar on the streets of Charlotte. When a businessman sees you there he pulls a ten-dollar bill out of his pocket and starts to hand it to you, then reconsiders, puts the money back in his pocket and walks away. Is it wrong for you to run after him and grab the money out of his pocket?

Let’s say you’re at a party standing next to a guy who has had a few too many beers. You see his wallet in his back pocket and figure he’s too drunk to keep you from stealing it. Would stealing it be wrong?

I am suggesting these scenarios to illustrate that forcibly taking something from a person who doesn’t want to give it to you is wrong.

Recently, the topic of rape has cropped up in many conversations around campus. In listening to the opinions of various students (male and female), I have found that everyone is strongly against the kind of rape in which a stranger leaps out of a dark alley, beats up his victim, and rapes her at gunpoint. Many students, however, are unwilling to consider as rape any instance in which someone is forced to submit to sexual intercourse without her consent. Often they attribute the problem to the woman rationalizing some morning-after guilt, or they blame her for bringing it on herself.

I brought up the three theft scenarios to show how similar they are to the following arguments that rape is excusable under certain circumstances:

If, for example, the woman has “a reputation,” many people argue that if she’s a slut, then having sex one more time isn’t going to make any difference. (I have heard this argument applied to students from Queens College).

If the woman is dressed provocatively or flirting, many people argue that “she was advertising for sex” or that “she was asking for it.”

If the woman has had too much to drink many people argue that it’s her own fault for not being more careful.

But these theft comparisons demonstrate that in situations in which the crime is stealing instead of rape, anyone with even a speck of moral judgment will blame the criminal, not the victim.

It horrifies me to realize what double standards our society has: we will not tolerate a person who takes someone’s money against his will, and yet we make excuses for someone who takes something that is tremendously personal and important. Sex isn’t like money: it has incredibly deep connections with the way a person feels about herself or himself. When a woman’s body is violated, her soul is violated too.

Although you can quickly earn enough money to replace cash that was stolen from you, a rape victim must cope for the rest of her life with extremely powerful feelings of guilt, fear, shame, anger, powerlessness, chronic depression, low self-worth and innumerable other problems. All these problems are intensified when people she knows are not giving her emotional support, but instead telling her that the man who wronged her doesn’t have to accept full responsibility for his actions.

I do not mean to suggest that all rapes, or even all acquaintance rapes, are committed under the circumstances I have described. Many instances can be much more easily identified as rape. Because of space constraints, this article has not dealt at all with many of the most important aspects of rape. For example, I have not even discussed how essential it is to realize that rape has to do not only with sexuality but with violence and power. I do not include these ideas not because I think that they are less crucial, but because this aspect of the issue happened to catch my attention. (Incidentally, I have chosen all my past topics based on what caught my attention, not on what I perceived to be humanity’s top ten most earth-shattering crises).

I would encourage anyone who is interested in dealing more extensively with rape awareness, with methods of dealing with rapists and rape victims, and with examining the attitudes that can lead to rape, to do so. The Davidson Rape Awareness Committee includes both men and women, and welcomes students, faculty, staff, community members and anyone else who would like to do something about this concern. Contact Peter Tavernise for more information. In addition, the Women’s Concerns Committee organizes campus programs on this issue and many others that relate to women. For more information, contact Ruth Pittard, the program coordinator for the Union.

Announcing

Applications Due February 21st

Make Friends

Interviews Mar. 2

Resident Advisor Applications
Applications Are Available Now For Resident Advisor Positions. Apply

Develop Real World Skills

Be An RA:

And Get Paid For It

Any Questions Call Richard Terry