Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Wednesday, January 31, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Is the reunification of the two Germanies possible?
Bush wants aid to Panama
By CAROL GATEWOOD AND CAROLINE WILLIAMSON

EAST GERMANY: As written in a recent New York Times article, the emergence of a multi-party system in Eastern Europe
has resulted in confusion. Under the one-party system of the past 40 years “everything was politicized, except for politics which
was depoliticized.” The East European people were molded into a certain mindset that was not conducive to politics. Now “after
40 years of one-party rule, the basics of Parliamentary procedure need to be learned all over again.” The opposition parties
have found it easy to criticize the Communist party but harder to put their opinions into policy once they have
gained power; their rapid emergence and growth has made it difficult for them to keep track of their platforms and
goals.

Recent developments in East Germany illuminate these problems of establishing new democratic systems. Eleven parties have emerged in recent months
to rival the Communist Party; West German political parties are using the upcoming elections as a battleground for the reunification
question. Elections were set for May 6 but were moved ahead by two months to March 18 in light of
mounting civil unrest that threatens to divide the nation.

East Germany’s political changes have also opened up new opportunities for economic restructuring. Last week Christ Luft, the East German
Economics Minister, announced that the government will allow majority ownership by foreign investors of businesses with 500 employees or less,
while a 49 percent cap will exist for larger companies so that a “wholesale buy out” by West Germany will
not occur. This plan is an effort to gain the foreign capital necessary to modernize the Eastern Bloc nation, and
Western economists estimate that East Germany will need $295.4 billion to do so.

West German officials believe that the lifting of these restrictions and implementation of other radical reforms should lead to German
cooperation with currency; as cited by The Wall Street Journal, one Bundesbank official envisions a monetary union before the two
Germanies resolve their political division. East German officials are not so optimistic. The federal government in Bonn will continue to
push for such unifying measures for the long-term interests of both states; Western officials believe that a monetary cooperation will
put an end to the huge immigration from East to West that could lead to economic collapse for East Germany.
A recent poll conducted by the University of Bochum in West Germany showed that most immigrants are leaving for economic
rather than political reasons.

Erich Honecker, former leader of East Germany, was arrested Monday for high treason. Honecker was taken from a hospital directly
to prison.

US/CHINA: The U.S. House of Representatives’ recent overriding of the presidential veto of a bill protecting Chinese students was cancelled
by the Senate’s failure on Friday by...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, meaning, and punctuation of the provided OCR text.Four votes to reach a two-thirds
majority. The bill, which protected Chinese students from deportation from the U.S. by waiving the requirement that they return to
China for two years after the expiration of their visas, was vetoed by President Bush in November. The President claims
that he will protect any Chinese student returning to Beijing but “insists on a free hand in shaping relations with
Beijing.” The issue rapidly became a bipartisan struggle with the Republicans siding with Bush and the Democrats seeing the vote
as a chance not only to criticize the President for his policy but also as a way to directly “bash”
him. The sharp response to the vote by China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman surprised even the Republicans. It was one of
the fiercest anti-American speeches to be released from China in recent months.

US/PANAMA: On Friday President Bush announced that the US would provide Panama with $1 billion in economic aid. The package
includes cash, loans, and humanitarian assistance to the nation that has suffered up to $2 billion in general economic strife
and physical damages from the US invasion last month. The offer came after a task force led by Deputy Secretary
of State Lawrence Eagleburger visited Panama to assess its economic situation. The U.S. government has also released about $140 million
in Panamanian assets that were frozen as sanctions against now-deposed General Manuel Noriega, and it will release another $250 million
soon.

U.S./US.S.R.: For the first time arms negotiators agreed to allow inspections of the opposite country’s warheads. This movement is viewed
as a way of accelerating work on the arms control treaty currently being negotiated between the US and USSR in
Vienna.

WESTERN EUROPE: A fierce winter storm ripped through Southern England and four continental countries, killing 62 people. With winds of
110 mph and torrential rains, the storm disrupted traffic, school, and communication.

JAPAN: Last week the Japanese government, under the auspices of the Institute for Space and Astronautical Science, launched a moon-orbiting
satellite that will provide data on temperatures and electrical fields. The Muses-A project is an attempt by the Japanese to
build up its space technology, and if successful it will make Japan the third nation in the world to have
this specific launch capability. Though Japan’s space budgeting is only one-tenth of that for the US, it has lined up
several different cooperative ventures for the next few years. These include sending a payload specialist on a US shuttle flight
and a TV journalist to the Soviet Mir space station.

Awareness Weekend February 9-11
Get involved! The Davidson College Chapel Committee is sponsoring the annual Awareness Weekend, a weekend-long service project in inner-city Charlotte.
Students will work on projects such as Habitat for Humanity, Metrolina Food Bank, Salvation Army Shelter, and others. Interested? Volunteer
by signing up in the Chaplain’s office (basement Union).

Date: FEB. 5 & 6
Time: 10:00 - 3:00
Jostens Gold Sale. For one week only. Order and save on the gold ring of your choice.
Deposit Required: $10.00
Place: MONDAY AND TUESDAY IN THE BOOKSTORE
Payment Plans Available
Meet with your Jostens representative for full details. See our complete ring selection on display in your college bookstore.
08-608(CP-450-89)
