THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Deeper Problems for the Planet: Beyond Gripes and Moans
By DERRICK WILLARD '91

Gloom and doom. Gripe and moan. I guess many people feel as if that is all they hear today concerning the state of the world environment. One cannot open a news magazine, newspaper, or watch television news without becoming aware of at least one environmental disaster daily. The media have rallied to the cause of environmentalists; awareness is in vogue. And much of this information, I fear, goes in one ear and out the other. We are bombarded and overwhelmed with the problems, with the negative. It is one of those facts of human nature—people tire quickly of “bitchin’ and moanin’.” We all feel the frustration of not being able to learn and live the answers, the positive.

With the rising tide of environmentalism, it does seem that many people feel they can make some positive impact on the problems. However, we all feel as individuals that our actions can do little to affect larger, worldwide problems like ozone depletion. Steps can be taken, but they often seem so futile or small. This is an attitude problem, a problem of perception. This is a problem lying beneath the problems we read of each day. We have a very hard time grasping problems long term and globally. It is a weakness of human nature that we possess a temporal and spatial immediacy which belittles the benefits of individual action. If we cannot see the immediate benefits of our actions, we tend to believe that they have had no impact.

There is a solution, a simple change of attitude that can affect the things we hear so much about as problems. You have to believe in the importance of individual action. Driving your car to the post office does make a difference, a negative one. Leaving your lights or radio on when not around to use them does make a difference. Buying styrofoam does make a difference. Small actions we can affect, we can contribute to solutions by our individual positive actions. Unfortunately for most people, this means that nasty word, “sacrifice.”

Yet another problem lies beneath the daily gripe and moan, another point of perspective. Consider this: we have been raised in the world’s most technologically advanced age, nurtured by the comforts of labor-saving machines, and carried all over the Earth in record times. We have been given almost every “convenience” to separate ourselves from “nature.” Houses separate “inside” from “outdoors.” There are air conditioners to keep the air the temperature we want it, and heaters to do the same. We have deodorant to cover our natural smells and clothes to cover our birthday suits.

Of course, there are millions of products which have been made to improve the human condition, to provide comfort, ease, to save time. We also have watches to put the world in order and boundaries and property to further order it spatially (we own a piece of the Earth, even after death). Yes, humans have found uncountable ways to tame, shape, claim, alter, build, mold, and replant the resources of the Earth for the benefit of humanity. And there lies the crux of our dilemma. We have been raised on the “inside”—we have been taught that man is separate from nature. We have seen nature as a tool, a resource for our immediate benefit. And today we see the effects of our attitude; they are apparent in the news every day.

You see, this is not another gloom and doom session, but a call to reexamine perspective, the deeper problem. Perhaps a species that only considers its own benefit, without regard for its kinship to the Earth, is missing a vital part of its own identity. We have to realize that we are a part of the world around us and that respect and care for it prevent disaster. And of course, some will wonder at such a radical notion, but I believe that it is the perspective that counts, that can make a difference. Maybe this idea will become more apparent one day, when humanity has to start considering life in terms of survival instead of comfort.

Natural systems gravitate toward cooperation over competition, homeostasis over expansion. Perhaps humanity will have to relearn cooperation and kinship with nature, to gain a perspective that the natives of this planet once possessed, in order to survive.

Derrick Willard is a biology major from Laurinburg, NC.

Boston University International Programs
725 Commonwealth Avenue B2
Boston, MA 02215
617/353-9888

LONDON PARIS WASHINGTON
Politics » Business/Economics » Journalism/Health Fields
The Arts » Management » Politics » Media » Public Relations » Tourism » Fashion
International Relations » Communications

Each 14-week internship program includes: 16 Boston University semester-hour credits, full-time internships, course work taught by local faculty, centrally located housing, and individualized placements for virtually every academic interest. Programs in London and Paris are offered during the spring, fall, and summer. The Washington program is offered during the fall and spring.

BOSTON UNIVERSITY
An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution

SUMMER AND FALL SPACES STILL AVAILABLE

NEW THIS FALL IN LONDON: PRE-LAW INTERNSHIP PROGRAM

Finance/Economic Research/Human/Health Services
Advertising/PR/Marketing
Journalism/Broadcast/Film
Business » The Arts » Government
Pre-Law » The Arts

Name
Address
City State Zip
College/University
Summer Fall Spring 19__

Management » Human/Health Services » Politics » Advertising/PR/Marketing » Journalism/Broadcast/Film » Paris Internship Program » Washington Internship Program

A Child in the Dominican Republic
By JOE THOMAS '90

Her enormous eyes glared then danced as she peered beyond the metal gates that stood between us. She was only a child, and because of this I found myself touched by this potentially hostile gesture and disarmed by a winsome aura of tenderness about her. She had marched up to the window very purposefully. My own gaze seemed to be of subtle amusement to her, and I imagine it is because therein lay my proverbial soul, and my outright curiosity. I hesitated to react lest I drive her away, yet I longed to touch her somehow. The setting was in the middle of the smalltown of Los Minos, in a section of Santo Domingo much like any other. It was a peculiar scene. A small, poor, dark-haired, brown-skinned girl, aged ten, was cross-examining a well-fed, brown-skinned, dark-haired foreigner who blurted Spanish words unintelligibly in an effort to “reach out to her.” It must have been vaguely humorous to her, but she was very diplomatic and instead of giggling, gently reached out a small hand to clasp mine. In a heartbeat, she had won me over completely. As countless other children scurried about on the streets behind her playing the games that they do, I couldn’t help but wonder what her life was like here. There she stood on the street, while I sat on the veranda of a local man’s home. Speaking volumes of the disparity between us, I sat couched in luxury, she stood barefoot and leaning against the open-air metal grating. Yet despite this, she managed to be an enchantingly beautiful little girl, and for a moment the barrier was breached. Very soon I discovered that the metal barrier was ironically the reason she could trust me. We talked for a few minutes, and I don’t know really what it was we said. The words were not important. Throughout our time, I began to have a very real sense of why it was she allowed me to intrude upon her busy day... So on a hopeful whim, I asked her if she would like to be my little sister. It was a strange question, but I explained the best I could that I had never had a little sister (I felt certain she would be an excellent one). This caused her to spill out an enormous smile which she hurriedly retrieved lest I should see it. But I did see it and in that instant, I understood something about that little girl. More than anything else, this little girl named Merinesa longed to be cherished by the heart of a brother. And for a moment removed from time, I had offered to be just that. I know that my heart had overstepped the bounds of reality, and there was no way I could really ever be her brother, but for just that one moment I wanted to hug her and hold her closely. And so I rose to leave the veranda and join her on the street. And then the most startling thing occurred, Merinesa’s gentle eyes suddenly became fearful. Bewildered, I precariously stepped forward past the partition that separated us. She grew more and more wary as I drew closer. Though I tried to let her sense my sincerity, she remained frightened. There was something else operating here besides the fear of strangers, so I gestured to one of the females on our trip to come over to us. I returned to my place behind the bars of the veranda and watched as Debbie gently placed her arms around Merinesa and comforted her. The fear was gone. Moments later, after Debbie had left, Merinesa returned to stand in front of me, and she gently placed her hand in mine again. What had unnerved this little child? And then it became painfully clear. In all likelihood, this beautiful child had probably been abused by a male figure in her life. Behind the bars, Merinesa felt that I could not threaten her, and she could “trust” me. Without the bars, she could not express her obvious desire for the strong touch of a male’s hand. From the change in her composure, I knew it was true. As she continued to hold my hand, she refused to make eye contact. I was absolutely helpless as my emotions ran a complete gamut from anger to sorrow. And I mostly felt very unable to alleviate her suffering, unable to even begin to understand what her life was like and all she had faced. We soon had to leave that place, and as I parted company with this girl, we gave her money and told her to hide it, hoping that she could get something for herself later. As I left, I prayed for her and for children like her all over the world, for in that moment that was all that was left for me to do. But something inside me told me that my prayer would begin to be answered as I changed, and realized: that is where change should begin. For starters, it is possible to make an enormous impact with very little sacrifice. For anywhere from $10-$20 a month through various organizations like World Vision, a little child like Merinesa could be lifted out of poverty and into dignity, as she receives basic health care, education, and sustenance. Amazing. Imagine for a moment, if our entire student body picked up one child per student. We wouldn’t have to give up very much, perhaps a six-pack here and there, or perhaps not even that. And a whole village of children would have hope. We have so much we can give. To continue, you don’t have to go to the third world to find Merinesas. Merinesa was a glimpse at a singular truth: every woman that I am privileged to meet is a potential Merinesa, a beautiful, hopeful little girl, who wants to trust the male figures in her life. Every woman is somebody’s little girl, and deserves all the love and fulfilled promises that entails. It made me think of every girl I had ever taken advantage of, and every virtue committee meeting I had sat in on, laughing my loudest, as we defaced someone’s little girl, and described what one of us had done with her the night before in a drunken stupor. I willingly chose to participate, and I never really ever gave it a thought. I may have been creating Merinesas out of little girls, who wanted nothing more than the love of a man they could trust. Sure, many of these “little girls” were grown-up women making decisions, governed by the same hormones and lusts that drive men, but I think our misguided sexuality is a societal ruse, when all is peeled away. Deep inside, we long to trust each other and offer ourselves to one another in committed love. In search of this, we'll endure the games we must play, regardless of the... Continued on Page 15.