THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990

Sara Carlson
Think Before You Vote

Watching garbage T.V. in that dead hour between classes and dinner, I noticed a fascinating similarity between all the political
advertisements. Although representing a multi-faceted candidate, each focused entirely on one issue. One spot supporting Senator Jesse Helms in his
campaign against newcomer Harvey Gantt accused Gantt of running two campaigns, one public and one private. According to the ads,
the “secret” campaign has solicited funds from out-of-state voters, specifically gay out-of-state voters. Pictures of newspaper clippings and dollar figures
flashed across the screen to demonstrate Gantt’s nationwide support from homosexuals. The commercial is a deliberate manipulation of public sensibilities.
It says nothing about what Jesse Helms stands for, but only that Harvey Gantt is “too liberal for North Carolina.”
It focuses on one issue, homosexual rights, and nothing else.

In another Helms advertisement, a Duke University Professor of Education endorses the senator. He implies that the only reason he
is voting for Jesse Helms is the incumbent's stand on education. Gantt supporters also are not innocent of such one-dimensional
decision-making. Two Davidson women who asked to remain anonymous told me that although they normally voted Republican, they are voting
for Gantt solely because of his pro-choice position. They do not agree with him on other matters, but feel reproductive
freedom is more important than everything else. Single-issue voting can be dangerous. Senior Sally Christian stated that “some issues are
on the surface. They cannot predict what a politician is going to do when he gets elected.” Eric Bone, ’91,
feels that “a candidate who is the kind I want in office has more than one issue in common with
me.” In regard to Jesse Helms, he added, “I object to his entire character and everything he stands for. So
I’m not voting for him.”

As voters and future leaders of our country, we need to closely examine each candidate as a whole. Only by
doing so can we control at all what happens in the legislature. Molly Yard, president of the National Organization for
Women, said in an October 20, 1990 interview with Creative Loafing, “I keep hearing people talk about how the young
are so apathetic -- well, they’re not apathetic... We can prove her right by seriously considering all that a candidate
stands for before casting our ballots.

If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? NOV. 15. THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT...

Jarred Baxter
Inside the S.G.A.
I Want My S.D.E. (Seven Days for Exams)

A few weeks ago the Faculty Executive Committee (a.k.a. the F.E.C.) passed the 1992-1993 calendar. A great deal of talk,
and dare I say -- dissension -- has ensued. Golly, what a great bunch of guys (and gals) they must
be. The really ironic, and in fact funny thing though, is these aren’t even “compromises.” These changes are nothing of
the student body. You may ponder, why all the hullabaloo? Will we hedonists who call ourselves students ever learn the
value of a good education unless we’re made to suffer? Why must we be so unreasonable? After all, the F.E.C.
has been very gracious...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In actually considering student input, whereas before they simply ignored it. And just look at all the wonderful “compromises” they
have made on our behalf! They “added” days to our Fall and Thanksgiving Breaks, they “extended” our Christmas Break, and
they even moved Spring Break out of February and actually into the spring!!

But the main compromise the F.E.C. wants from us is our sanity, to be surrendered after we blindly flounder through
a five-day exam period. Yes, that’s right boys and girls, a five-day exam period! But we’re supposed to believe these
concessions are compromises. Why, in the last meeting in fact, one Senator even remarked, and I paraphrase, “it has always
been a faculty decision and it’s essentially up to them.” Although I agree that it’s “up to them,” I still
hold to the belief that without students there would be no need for teachers, and they are thus directly responsible
to the needs of the students.

I’m not calling for student rebellions or anarchy, but compromise, real compromise. Teachers, listen to the needs of the students,
please! Wait, there’s more, if you act now, you’ll also get your Reading Day taken away at no extra charge!!
A veritable bargain!

Seriously though, the Secretary of the F.E.C., Dr. Nelson, told Lori Rockett, Chancellor of the S.G.A., that if organized student
disapproval was exhibited, the F.E.C. may reconsider the calendar. And because I have an inkling that some amount of student
dissent, however minuscule, is present, I have taken it upon myself to organize a petition, because personally, I would rather
reside eternally in Dante’s lowest ring of hell than suffer the consequences of a five-day exam period.

But how will you undertake such a great responsibility as this, you, the reader, may ask? And ask you may,
for now I am about to reveal my fiendish plan to the campus at large, which will be carried out
by the great underground network of dissenting Davdisonians. A copy of the petition, which looks like this:

In signing my name, I assert the following:
1) The Fall Reading Day was essentially stricken,
2) Five exam days, especially consecutively as within the Fall plan, is not sufficient to take all my exams,
3) The examination procedure should stay status quo.

The petition will be harbored by one member from every hall on which Freshmen or Sophomores dwell. As voters and
future leaders of our country, we need to closely examine each candidate as a whole. This person will be responsible
to present the other members of his/her hall with the petition, and then possibly elicit a signature. I will then
write a report of my findings (which will, I believe, support my hypothesis that there is not one student, whom
most would consider sane, who wants a five-day exam period) and give it, and the petitions, to Dr. Nelson and
the F.E.C.

If you would like to help in this greatest of tasks and do yourself and your classmates a most gracious
favor, call me (-6117), and I will give you a petition for you to gather the zealous signatures of your
hallmates. I need a lot of help, so please, don’t be shy, and give me a call!
