2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990

By MIKA NABESHIMA

On September 13th, Dr. Susumu Nagai, a biology professor at Kansai University of Foreign Studies in Japan, received an honorary
degree in Philanthropic Hall. “This is the happiest day in my academic career in my life today,” said Dr. Nagai
as he received his new hood, becoming an alumnus of Davidson College. Since 1962 he has helped recruit Japanese students
to study at Davidson. A reception at the Carolina Inn followed the dignified ceremony. In addition to faculty members and
administrators, some Japanese businessmen and people related to Japanese affairs were invited. Governor and Mrs. Martin also made their appearance.

At the dinner following the reception, Governor Martin told a story about the first Japanese exchange student they hosted. (He
was a chemistry professor at Davidson at the time.) He expressed his hope that North Carolina would continue to maintain
good relations with Japanese business. During their five-day visit, the Nagais were especially impressed by the beautiful campus. Dr. Nagai
was glad to see the liberal arts tradition alive at Davidson. In Japan today students study only in a narrow
and specialized field. He feels the need, and hopes for a revival of the liberal arts tradition in Japan. He
also noticed how Christianity still plays a positive role at Davidson. They felt that Davidson students are very fortunate to
have a relaxed environment, in which they can study effectively.

Davidson Gives Dr. Susumu Nagai Honorary Degree

Dr. Nagai himself has never attended nor taught at Davidson. His first encounter with Davidson was in 1958 aboard a
ship on his way home to Japan after teaching at Southern Illinois University for two years. On board, he and
his wife, Hideko, met Davidson alumnus Malcolm R. Williamson, Jr. (class of 1955) who was on his way to India
on a Fulbright scholarship program. During the eighteen-day trip, they became very good friends. The ship made a stop in
Kobe before it proceeded to India and the Nagais invited Mr. Williamson to their home in nearby Kyoto. History professor
Bradley Thompson, then the director of International Programs, later wrote to the Nagais about the newly established Richardson Scholarship Program
for foreign students and asked the Nagais for recommendations and help in recruiting students. The Nagais took on the responsibility
as volunteer recruiters and dedicated much of their private time looking for qualified Japanese students as well as preparing these
students for Davidson with intensive language courses. Between 1962 and 1982, the Nagais sent twenty students to Davidson, with whom
they still keep in touch. Mrs. Nagai plans to send the second edition of this album with the most recent
pictures of the former students, most of them now with wives and children. Davidson currently has two students from Japan.
Mika Nabeshima is a senior political science major from Yokohama, and Asako Yoshii is a sophomore from Sendai.

Ethics and Community To Be Discussed at Symposium of Medical Humanities

By JENNY WHITTINGTON

On September 27 and 28, a unique group of Charlotte area doctors, Davidson College professors and nationally recognized experts on
medical ethics will gather at Davidson to discuss “Responsible and Responsive Medicine in the 1990s.” The third annual Frederick Womble
Speas Memorial Colloquium is co-sponsored by Davidson College and the Charlotte Area Health Education Committee. It will involve about 150
practicing physicians, nurses, healthcare administrators, philosophers, clergy and national experts on questions of medical ethics. The colloquium provides continuing education
for Charlotte doctors, but it represents another aspect in the comprehensive undergraduate medical education of several Davidson students who will
attend. These students will be graduating this year as medical humanities majors, prepared for medical school with a thorough understanding
of the ethical aspects of their chosen career. Davidson is one of the few undergraduate institutions in the nation offering
a medical humanities program. According to Director of the Medical Humanities Program Rosemarie Tong, the program’s intention is broader than
just humanism in medical training. “Health care is a community project, and must be community directed. All students have a
responsibility as future community citizens to be informed on these issues. It’s especially important for those who end up in
leadership positions where they must decide public policy,” said Tong. Many medical humanities speakers visit the campus during the year,
but the Speas Colloquium is the major effort for the program. The invited speakers are considered to be experts in
their fields. Dr. Howard Brody, a practicing physician, is past president of the Society for Health and Human Values. He
is associate professor of family practice and philosophy director of the Center for Ethics and Humanities in Life Sciences at.Michigan
State University. Frank H. Marsh is professor of medical ethics and law and director of the program in medical ethics
at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center. Reinhard Priester is a research fellow at the Center for Biomedical Ethics
at the University of Minnesota. Dr. Abigail Zuger, one of the country’s foremost AIDS experts, works in the division of
infectious diseases at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. Tong said the colloquium is a unique collaboration. “You don’t usually
see undergraduate institutions cooperating with a hospital. However, the Charlotte community is unique in that there are so many enlightened
people interested in medical humanities and willing to take the creative risk of dealing with a liberal arts college. They
usually focus on medical schools or a major university.” Attendance at the conference is restricted. College Relations contributed to this
article.

Addressers wanted immediately
No Experience Necessary
Excellent Pay! Work at Home
Call Toll Free 1-800-395-3283

Prank Call Continued from Page 1

campus. Students have been called at all hours of the day and night by someone who claims that there is
a package for them at the Union desk. Students are advised to call the Union to confirm the validity of
any such calls that they receive. Ray Thrower, Davidson College’s director of public safety, warned of student complacency in the
face of possible crimes. “Lock your dorm room while you’re away,” he encouraged, stating that the 20 minutes that someone
might use to take a shower might be the amount of time that a thief needs to go to work.
He also noted that exterior doors of many dormitories were being propped, leaving open the possibility that an undesirable intruder
might gain access to the dorms. “It’s your community; it’s only as safe as you want it to be,” he
emphasized.

Compiled by Trent Stevens

From Front Page

Residence Life has placed lighter restrictions on parties in general, but Patterson Court has set no new rules for fraternities
and their rush procedures. Fraternity members have invited freshmen to parties in the dormitories, senior apartments or off campus. “Nine
out of ten parties that happen in Belk before the rush period are pre-rush parties,” said Ford Shippey, a Belk
resident advisor. “Unofficially all houses start rush as soon as classes begin. No matter what you do, you can’t stop
unofficial rush,” said Shippey. “Belk is a good place to have them because freshmen can take three steps and be
on sophomore hall, where they are allowed to drink.”

Violation

Patterson Court made the decision four years ago to bar freshmen from the Court. They wanted to give freshmen more
time to get to know members of their class and get a good start academically. Freshmen males who were interviewed
say pre-rush parties have posed no problems for them, and they haven’t felt pressured to join any one group. “It’s
been kind of nice to have things to do, especially when things get slow,” said Ward Davis, a freshman from
Winston Salem, N.C. “I can see the point that it defeats the purpose of keeping freshmen off the court, though.
Whoever’s in charge should try to limit it. There shouldn’t be too many.”

Freshmen of the class of 1989 were the last to “try the Court” during the first weeks of school. That
class watched their grades plummet to the lowest freshmen grade point average ever in Davidson’s history. One of the basic
reasons for the rule is to keep freshmen from drinking so much that it hinders their adjustment to college life.
At present, freshmen may drink in their rooms but may not carry alcohol into common hall areas, such as lounges,
hallways and bathrooms. Hall counselors must report freshmen to the dean’s office if they violate this rule or seem to
have a problem with drinking. “The policy has some gray areas,” said hall counselor Steve Lilly, “and the administration knows
that. But I think the school is taking the right attitude in dealing with the behavior issue. In a lot
of ways it’s left up to the freshmen to make decisions, and that’s right—they’re adults.”

As Patterson Court and the administration look into possible changes in the alcohol policy, they will have to address the
issue of pre-rush parties and their contribution to alcohol problems on campus. Dean Terry hopes the Court will “have the
courage” to take initiative on this issue as they did four years ago. “At first the Court applauded the move,”
said Terry. “They said it was good for them as well. But then little by little organizations have eroded that
idea. It is my opinion that when we do something like this, some group seeks to balance it.”

Remember: Nobody Really Cares About You Except for Close Family Members.
