8 Children of the Malt®, part VI
Thursday, February 22, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Religion department joins quest for best
By JOHN HUTCHINSON

Trent Foley, Assistant Professor of Religion, joined Dave Devereux and Julie Gibert as guest drinkers for this week’s blind tasting session of 11 different English brews. All three have lived and studied in England, an experience which has provided them with a reasonable knowledge of English beer. Ed Matthews, photographer for The Davidsonian, dropped by to take pictures of the event, and was sucked into the revelry, staying on to taste several of the beers himself.

Unfortunately, I was a goof. I lost the letter grades awarded each beer by my guest drinkers. But I’m sure they’re somewhere—probably underneath the piles of clothes, papers, CDs, resumes, beer bottles, dirty dishes, etc. in my apartment. They’ll be in the final column this spring, I swear it.

Samuel Smith’s Pale Ale: Pleasant, sweet odor. “Nicely sweet with a slightly bitter aftertaste” —Foley. “It doesn’t taste distinctly different from anything else” —Devereux. “If you want to waste $2 on a British beer that’s about as exciting as Pabst Blue Ribbon, this is your beer” —Hutchinson.

John Courage: Nice color, slightly bready smell. An enjoyable bitter aftertaste. Not as heavy as you’d expect from the color. “Tastes like watery ale” —Foley. “It would be good with food, but it’s not that interesting” —Gibert.

Newcastle Brown: Syrupy sweet, vaguely fruity smell. Thin—not much body. Perhaps good to sip at if you’ve had a big dinner beforehand. “Stays with you in a textural sort of way” —Gibert. “Smells like old Christmas lights, and it leaves you with a furry tongue” —Foley.

Old Peculier: Rich, caramel smell. Smooth but thick. “Tastes like something you marinate something in” —Gibert. “It would be hard for me to down a couple of pints of this. I’ve drunk a lot of this type of beer and I always try to like it, but I never really do” —Foley.

Whitbread Ale: Bitter and sour taste—very acrid. “Nice shoepolishy smell” —Foley. “Sweet mustiness bounded by acrid jarring horror” —Devereux. “Despite feeling like champagne in your mouth” —Hutchinson.

Samuel Smith’s Old Brewery Pale Ale: Faint odor. Its pleasantly bitter taste is not very clean. “No particular noticeable quality to it. This one is not where it’s at” —Devereux.

Samuel Smith’s Oatmeal Stout: Sweet smell, smokey, dark taste. “A good late night beer or heavy dessert beer to settle the stomach. I could drink it just before I go to bed” —Devereux.

Samuel Smith’s Nut Brown Ale: Bitter initial taste with a more bitter aftertaste. Syrupy smell. “Smells like vitamin B complex” —Foley. “God. I think I'll try and avoid this beer” —Devereux.

Royal Oak: Sweet smell, good, rich, bitter taste. The aftertaste is less bitter than the initial taste. “A nice consistency with a bitter taste” —Foley. “You could go into a pub after classes, drink this for 4 or 5 hours, and never want dinner” —Devereux.

Bass: Bubbly for an English beer. Bitter while you drink it, but the bitterness quickly disappears. “A pretty fair beer” —Hutchinson.

Photo by Ed Matthews

Professor Julie Gibert, her man Dave Devereux, beer connoisseur Hutchinson and professor Trent Foley relax with samples of English beers.Listerine” --Foley. Samuel Smith’s Taddy Porter: Very smooth, comparatively full body. Completely opaque. “Rich, mocha smell” --Gibert. “Delightfully mild, yet rich” --Foley. “You could pour this over pancakes, it’s so thick. Might even make breakfast fun” --Hutchinson. Best beer: Taddy Porter, Royal Oak. Worst beer: Whitbread Ale. Best name: John Courage, Old Peculiar. Most interesting bottle: Royal Oak.

The beers discussed in this week’s column can be purchased at La’Mart Deli and Wines on Sharon Amity and Belk’s of Southpark in Charlotte. Royal Oak, John Courage, Bass, and several of the Samuel Smith beers can be purchased locally at Natural Resources or Tastefully Yours.

On the international beer scene, the democratic reforms in Czechoslovakia have yielded a most unique development. The traditional brewing town of Pilsen is home to a newly-formed political party, “Friends of Beer,” according to the Valentine’s Day issue of The Charlotte Observer. The party’s platform is rather simple: condoning only lower beer prices, better beer quality, and more beer consumption. Party members hope to win seats in the June 8 elections. Calls to The Charlotte Observer, Senator Terry Sanford’s office, and Washington’s Czechoslovakian Embassy failed to turn up the mailing address of the “Friends of Beer,” so it will be several weeks before supportive Americans can send their campaign contributions.

None of this is particularly surprising, however: the Czechs are currently in the middle of the most creative and unique of the Eastern European revolutions--consider also that they have selected eccentric rocker Frank Zappa as the Czech cultural emissary to the world. Honestly.

Next week, assuming Charles Houck and I survive the partying fury of Mardi Gras, Children of the Malt® will cover several beers left out in earlier tasting sessions. This column is written out of the concern that, in a quest for quantities of beer, students too often overlook the quality.

That's right! Freddie Zi aw needs YOUR VOTE as SGA Resident! Why? Well, if you’re a terribly misinformed citizen, we’ll tell you anyway. Freddie was a freshman Senator and helped fund hundreds of events. Don’t know important bills? Freddie knows issues. You won’t get more, better condoms for counselors or any non-issues from Freddie, just pure 100% American quality. Freddie knows politics: I’ll get to work on naming the new buildings. One of them after me, if I can manage it. Free beer for everyone, and no new taxes, er, I mean no tuition hikes! Read DN ir Se myself. I’m always looking out for fellow students, if not for myself. I always endorse dedication, honesty, news, and the law! Fred is your candidate. Don’t look for him on the ballot—he’s not there, you lazy buffoon! In fact, the election doesn’t need a college. Let him have a little fun! You see, I like to think of myself as the alternative candidate: Those of you who feel alienated by your school, political party, eating house, or your roommate, I can make it all better! Tell him, by your peers, your peers, your peers.