THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Faculty Continued from Page 1

dividual basis. When a faculty member retires, our first inclination is to go back and hire a young person because of new blood,” said Dr. Williams. “We look at all the major graduate schools, but we’re looking for a particular commitment to teaching at the undergraduate level.”

In many ways, Davidson is in a different position from other institutions. It has had a long and continuing liberal arts tradition which makes finding and hiring top professors more feasible. “One of the nice things about Davidson,” said Dr. Williams, “is that it has really held fast to a core liberal arts curriculum... It turns out that because those are still solid areas all through the university system, you can continuously get good people and have a very good applicant pool.”

According to Dr. Williams, it is possible that in the future Davidson will be faced with tougher competition from larger schools for faculty positions. Many of Davidson’s faculty members who were hired in the 1970s and early 80s are at the prime of their careers, and as major universities begin to rediscover the importance of teaching, there will be greater competition in the market and a greater chance that our departments will be raided. “From my perspective, the major problem is that other institutions are going to do this to Davidson, not that Davidson is going to do it to them. Even if we wanted to, we don’t have the resources to buy a French department or a chemistry department,” said Dr. Williams.

In past years, Davidson has not had problems attracting faculty. According to Dr. Williams, eight offers were made last year, and all of them were accepted. Davidson’s somewhat rural location is not attractive to some, especially single professors, but those who want to teach at a large university in a big city would not apply to Davidson in the first place. “The bottom line,” said Dr. Williams, “is that we have not experienced any problems in faculty recruiting; certainly our salaries are competitive at the entry level. We will, I believe, continue to experience problems with retention of the best faculty.”

This problem with retention, Dr. Williams thinks, is not so much an issue of salary but of career choice. Some will go to large institutions to make more, teach fewer classes, and as a result, publish much more frequently. “Some who have been at Davidson for maybe ten years may be getting itchy. They want to know what the rest of the world is like,” said Dr. Williams.

There are plans to help keep Davidson from being affected by the increasing trend of faculty raids. According

U.S. News Continued from Page 1

surprised at all to see Davidson ranked,” said freshman Miles Louna. “It has an excellent reputation in the South. It was a matter of time before we were in the top ten. We will definitely go up.”

Both students and faculty hope the ranking will translate into increased recognition for Davidson. “Name recognition is invaluable to us,” Gardner adds, “For example, if we have a college fair in Los Angeles, people will have heard of Davidson. Also, being a ‘Best Buy’ may be even more significant than the top ten rating.”

Sophomore Greg Weinig sees the recognition as translating into increased opportunity for Davidson graduates. “Hopefully,” Weinig said, “it will mean I will have an easier time getting into graduate school and into the job market.”To Dr. Williams, entry-level salaries have had to be “moved along,” and a committee is working to increase faculty compensation on the basis of merit. “We have not really had any faculty leave Davidson,” said Dr. Williams, “since John Kuykendall came, if we didn’t want them to, and that’s remarkable. The fact is people like this place. The students are really our best advertisement. One of the reasons faculty like teaching, and one of the things that’s going to keep them interested, is the quality of the students. As long as we have good students, they'll stick with us.”

Hutchings Continued from Page 1

Hutchings said most of today’s black students probably face the same challenges he did, coming from a majority black environment without much contact with the white community. “All of a sudden you’re thrust into an environment where you have to both study hard and develop new relationships. It takes time to get used to that, and some people adjust while some never do.”

Trustee Billy Hutchings '78 strolls the campus.

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

“It was a trying, different and difficult experience as a student, but I’m a better person now,” he continued. “Davidson gave me skills in basic understanding and communication I don’t think I would have gotten anywhere else in the country.” He said that he wants to see more blacks at Davidson, but he is satisfied with the college’s attempts toward integration, given the number of black students qualified and willing to attend. He acknowledges there is more that Davidson can do to make itself attractive to black students and employees, and believes that his election is one such positive move.

Continued from Page 1

meals of participants, organizing the spouses program, helping with transportation and registration, and assisting the Budapest University coordinator. It’s quite a load for her first trip overseas.

“I’m really excited, but kind of apprehensive,” she said. “In a way I’m glad I haven’t been to western Europe before because I won’t really have anything to compare central Europe to.” Though she is new to the world of international conferences, Williamson does have a background in agriculture, growing up on a farm in Crewe, Virginia, 60 miles southwest of Richmond. Williamson said that her internship with the International Policy Council awakened new interests in her future career, and reaffirmed her goal to work in international trade and relations. “Agriculture has always been a large part of my life, but I had never really thought about it in the international diplomatic sense that I thought about it this summer,” she said. Williamson, a political science major, said she would like to independently study Soviet agricultural policy more in depth at Davidson. “I became interested in the fact that agricultural policy is a function of the leaders of the time,” she said. When Williamson returns from her trip, she will be speaking to several groups on campus about her experiences.