_OPINIONS_

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1990

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief  
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor

JOE MARIS, Associate Editor  
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor  
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor  
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

TRENT STEVENS, News Editor  
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor  
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor  
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor  
HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor

Founded in 1914:  
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor  
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor  
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor  
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor  
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor  
PETER FISHER, Production Manager  
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager  
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager

BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager  
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager  
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager

MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor

---

Our New Directory

If you haven't seen the new college directory that took a whole semester to arrive under your door, you really are missing a treat. On the cover is a personified answering machine spewing cartoon bubbles with messages like: “Welcome to the Lifestyles of the Poor and Unknown. Josh, Tom, and Mike are out on a caper with Joan Collins and Roger Moore. Leave your name at the beep and we'll get back to you. In the meantime—champagne wishes and caviar dreams.” Pencils, memos, and strewn papers adorn the surroundings. Graphically, it is eye-stimulating, but seems frivolous for the Davidson image.

In charge of the design was Mike Van Hecke, Design Manager of College Relations. “It looks more like a student directory: light-hearted, pleasant, visually dynamic. Something that won’t get lost under the clutter of a desk.” On this point, one cannot plausibly confute Mr. Van Hecke, for the style is certainly energetic. Downright aggressive. But is it in the conservative, subdued, yet classic tradition of Davidson? When asked about campus reaction to the directory, Van Hecke said two words: “General delight.” Perhaps he is correct.

Hecke added, "In the past I have used a student illustrator. This time, this particular student was overworked, so I had a friend from college do it. He works in an ad agency now."

Maybe Mr. Hecke should ask himself if the new directory is of the college and for the college.

---

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Thursday during the school year by the students of Davidson College.  
Please address fan mail and correspondences to:  
The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036.  
Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149.  
Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.  
Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.  
Subscriptions cost $25 per year.  
Advertising rates available on request.  
Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

---

No Joy in Mudville These Days

To the Editor:

We are writing in response to the letter written by Seth McLaughlin and Jeremy Kinner regarding the Harvey Gantt-Jesse Helms race, entitled “Gantt Article Devoid of Truth.”

They trivialize an election that sends a racist man back to Washington. Jesse Helms exclaimed in his victory speech last Tuesday, “Well, there’s no joy in Mudville tonight.”

Senator Helms knows only one way of campaigning and operating in Washington; he thrives by playing on the fears of the electorate.

In the recent election, Helms masked a racist campaign under the themes of Gantt supporting tax increases, gay and lesbian rights, and racial quotas. Gantt explicitly denied supporting racial quotas, but Helms decided to air television ads to that effect.

The fact remains that the largest civil rights bill ever to go on the floor of the United States Senate failed by one vote, with Senator Helms vehemently opposing the legislation. Harvey Gantt stated his support for this bill that would help control job discrimination and mentioned nothing of quotas.

Are Mr. Kinner and Mr. McLaughlin prepared to explain the truth behind what Senator Helms’ vote will do to end racial bigotry to discriminated employees?

Senator Helms has spoken of the traditional North Carolina values he possesses to combat the liberal Washington establishment.

Is it a North Carolina value to disregard the 15th Amendment by demanding that predominantly black voting precincts close their polling places promptly at 7:30 while others were left undisturbed until everyone had voted? Helms’ supporters resorted to such measures.

November 6 was a bleak day in the history of North Carolina.

The opportunity presented itself to send a progressive man to Washington who would have become a strong advocate of civil rights.

Maybe Mr. McLaughlin and Mr. Kinner should reflect on the missed opportunity to help put an end to racial bigotry in North Carolina’s senatorial representation instead of Harvey Gantt’s relevance to a Monty Python movie.

Sincerely,  
SAM ADAMS  
MATT WOODLIEF, ’93

---

Ray Thrower of Public Safety and the SGA request that all students leaving their vehicles here for Thanksgiving move them into the Baker Sports Complex parking lot, which will be under police surveillance during this time in order to reduce the possibility of break-ins.

The Davidsonian Will Return After Break For One Final Issue. No Issue Next Week.  
The Editors