THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990

Divest Continued from Page 1

was not an easy one for the trustees to resolve, that even “people of intelligence and education can disagree and
have different opinions on the matter.” At about the same time Davidson was deciding its policy based on Sullivan’s principles,
Sullivan himself was coming to the conclusion that his proposal was ineffective and was doing nothing to change the status
quo in the country. In June of 1987, he decried his earlier ideas and called for total divestment in South
African business.

Sophomore Heather McGarrah, who last year helped organize a protest against Davidson’s investment in South Africa, finds the college’s policy-based
principles to be ironic. “The guy who thought it up realized it didn’t work,” she says. “Why can’t the trustees?”

When asked to comment on the fact that Davidson no longer has investments in category two companies, McGarrah was pleased,
but cautious. “All the recent changes (in South Africa) seem to point to the effectiveness of economic sanctions and divestment.
It’s a shame, however, that Davidson couldn’t have made a stronger statement against apartheid by divesting totally.”

Junior Clement Radebe is from Soweto and brings a native South African perspective to the situation. He says that all
attempts to fight apartheid are appreciated. Insofar as this goes, Category I companies are better than companies which do not
make any anti-apartheid efforts. According to Radebe though, the bottom line is that relatively few blacks and non-whites work for
such companies. “Blacks don’t really benefit from any foreign investment,” he says. Radebe adds that there is not and never
has been enough benefit to blacks and non-whites to justify the support foreign investment gives, however inadvertently, to a government
which practices apartheid. Radebe agrees with McGarrah that economic pressures have helped to bring about recent changes in his homeland.
He remains suspicious of the permanence of the reforms though. In the end, he believes that no matter what investors
such as Davidson do, only a new constitution and enfranchisement for all will open a door to a new beginning
for his people. “One man, one vote - that’s our ultimate goal.”

Reasoner Continued from Page 2

degree in physics from Whitworth College in Spokane, Washington, Reasoner took part in a semester abroad program in Central America
in the spring and summer of 1979. The experience led to an interest in the region that has continued to
this day. Reasoner urged Davidson students to be involved, either through solidarity groups or churches. “There are great interconnections of
issues. The peace and justice needed abroad have connections back home to the problems of the homeless and drugs,” said
Reasoner. “Involvement allows you to know more about yourself, society, and the world. It helps complete a more well-rounded education,
not just for the mind but for the heart.”

Mora Continued from Page 2

tion to the advancement of Hispanics. She has also received many creative writing awards, such as Southwest Book Awards for
Borders and Chants, the Harvey L. Johnson Book Award in 1984, and the creative writing award from the National Association
for Chicano Studies in 1983. Mora has presented her work extensively throughout the United States at both civic gatherings and
at colleges. For more information on her visit to Davidson, call the College Union at 892-2140.

Election Continued from Page 1

sometimes joined by Charlotte mayor Sue Myrick as they attacked Gantt’s ‘liberal’ ideas and accused Gantt of running a campaign
of lies. All of this campaigning eventually led to Tuesday. It was evident that North Carolinians had followed the Senatorial
campaign closely as they came to the polls in record numbers. As the votes were being counted Tuesday night, a
problem with the voting machines caused the polls to remain open to eight o’clock in Guilford County and to as
late as ten in Durham. Even though these polls were still open, returns started coming in and Helms had an
early ten percent lead over Gantt.

A number of Davidson students attended both the Helms and Gantt parties in Raleigh on Tuesday. Although festive at first,
the mood at the North Raleigh Hilton, Democratic Headquarters for the night, became somber as more precincts reported and Helms
kept his lead. Junior Kim Cartron was at the Hilton and commented upon the race by saying, “Helms has preyed
upon the prejudices of people.” As Helms continued to hold his lead she said that this is, “disappointing for North
Carolina because this state needs to follow an agenda like that of Harvey Gantt.”

Around 11:00 Helms gave his victory speech across town at the Republican Headquarters even though not all of the precincts
had reported. Sophomore Seth McLaughlin attended the Republican headquarter activities. “The whole atmosphere was pretty jubilant the entire night because
Helms was ahead from the start,” said McLaughlin.

At ten of twelve, Harvey Gantt appeared to his crowd and even though he did not officially concede defeat, he
admitted being hurt and everyone knew that Jesse Helms had been re-elected. Although Helms led by eight and ten percentage
points most of the night, he won by six percent, receiving 53% of the vote to Harvey Gantt’s 47%. The
late surge by Gantt was probably due to the late returns of Durham and other metropolitan areas whose votes were
not counted until the early hours of the morning. Anthony Foxx visited Gantt’s headquarters and acknowledged that Gantt never accepted
defeat until the next day. “He was a little discouraged from about 10:00 on,” said Foxx, “but we were always
looking for a sign of hope. Unfortunately, the sign never came.”

Professors Continued from Page 1

1964, Abbott taught for three years at Bates College.He was promoted to professor at Davidson in 1979 and was appointed
chair of the department in 1989. In addition to teaching English, he has served as director of the second-year humanities
program. In 1969, Abbott became the youngest faculty member ever to receive the Thomas Jefferson Award, the college’s highest faculty
honor. He has been recognized by the North Carolina Press Association for his newspaper columns on prison conditions, and by
Crucible magazine for fiction writing. He was a scholar in poetry at the Bread Loaf Writers’ Conference and has received
grants to attend at least two National Endowment for the Humanities seminars. Abbott’s works include a book of poetry, *The
Girl in the Yellow Raincoat*, published in 1989 and nominated for a Pulitzer Prize, and a recent non-fiction work, *The
Vital Lie: Reality and Illusion in Modern Drama*.

Klein’s chief fields of interest include topology, probability theory, and mathematics education. He attended the University of Rochester, then went
on to do graduate work at Yale University, where he received his Ph.D. in 1968. He taught at Yale and
New York University before joining the Davidson faculty in 1971. Klein has helped several area institutions, including Myers Park High
School, UNC Charlotte, and Duke University, evaluate their mathematics programs. In the 1980s, he served as chairman of the secondary
mathematics curriculum subcommittee of the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction’s Curriculum Improvement Project, and as author of the test
unit for the ACT’s preliminary actuarial examination. He has published solutions to problems posed in several mathematics journals, as well
as reviews of textbooks. He has also read numerous papers at professional society meetings and is a member of the
American Mathematical Association of America and the North Carolina Council of Teachers of Mathematics.

McKelway, a native of Durham, graduated from Davidson in 1954 with an A.B. degree in history. He went on to
receive a B.D. in theology from Princeton Theological Seminary and a Th.D. from the University of Basel in 1963. He
worked in the ministry from 1955 to 1960 before entering the world of academic theology in 1963. He taught at
Dartmouth College before returning to Davidson in 1965. McKelway’s primary focus at Davidson is systematic theology, as well as modern
theology and the reformation. He has written two books: *The Systematic Theology of Paul Tillich*, published in 1964, and *The
Context of Contemporary Theology*, published in 1974. Another book, *The Freedom of God and Human Liberation*, will be published next
year. McKelway is active in the Presbyterian Church, currently chairing its committees on interpretation and ordination examination. He was moderator
of the Mecklenburg Presbytery in 1985.

**Poverty Continued from Page 2**

...made less than $10,000 a year, and the average annual income ran between $12,000 and $13,000. The overwhelming majority of
families in these neighborhoods are black. In a separate presentation for Mecklenburg Ministries, Hicks reported that two-thirds of Charlotte’s poor
are black, while blacks make up less than one-third of Charlotte’s total population. He also found that poverty increasingly plagues
female-headed households. “In the past 25 years,” Hicks wrote, “the ratio of female-headed families to male-headed ones in the U.S.
has increased dramatically. Due to the feminization of poverty, child poverty increased as children were growing up in single-parent families.”
Most of the study respondents were women, divided almost equally into categories of married, widowed, or separated. “The feminization of
poverty is starkly revealed in this data,” said Ratliff. The average number of children in each home was 2.6.

As for education, every respondent had been to school, but a sixth never completed elementary school. Their illiteracy rate was
seven percent, and fewer than half had completed high school. From this survey and other research, Hicks was surprised to
learn that a high school diploma allows an individual to earn about $4,500 more in the job market each year
than a person not completing high school. Nearly two-thirds of the respondents feel that their education is insufficient and practically
all of these would like additional education, said Ratliff. Lack of time and lack of money are the reasons given
by the non-elderly for not going back to school.

Hicks was interested in the type of work that these heads of households might do. He found that 50 percent
worked in services, another 22 percent in manufacturing, and 23 percent in construction and other odd jobs. A third of
the respondents did not work at all during the preceding two years, primarily because of retirement or a disability. Ratliff
explained that even if a person is working, he or she may not always get enough hours to constitute a
full-time job. One interviewee, who was in a labor pool and walked each day to the location where he hoped
to get work, told a volunteer, “I got work only two days last week, seven hours on Tuesday and eight
hours on Friday, at $4.25 per hour.”

Despite the economic and educational barriers they face, Ratliff found that the “majority of the respondents find life to be
meaningful and are optimistic persons of hope and tremendous faith. In general,” he said, “they do not blame others for
their current situation and realize they cannot trust luck to improve the situation.” Still, Ratliff’s report voices a call for
reform. “Poverty is a condition that includes not only low income and disappointing employment opportunities, but also a low sense
of worth and self-respect and a low degree of freedom to control one’s own destiny,” he wrote. “To have a
segment of the population condemned to this condition, possessing little influence and power and even looked down on by their
fellow citizens, is a blight upon society that is none other than scandalous.”
