14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

Field Hockey

Field Hockey Beats Appalachian State, Ties Radford

By LARRY DAGENHART

Last weekend, the Davidson field hockey team took a road trip which resulted in a 1-0 victory over Appalachian State and a scoreless tie with Radford. The lone goal of the game against Appalachian State was scored by Jacquelin Ukrop midway through the first half. Ukrop lifted the ball over fallen goalkeeper Libba Shannonhouse, renowned for her stinginess in goal. Davidson dominated the game by outshooting the Mountaineers 36-7. A rough field containing more than a few weeds made it difficult for both teams to move the ball well, but the Wildcats were able to up their record to 4-1.

Sunday’s game against Radford matched Davidson against a host of great players accustomed to a physical game and a very tough schedule. Radford controlled the first half as it outshot the Wildcats 19-1. Davidson, playing without starters Simone Plaisance and Beth Pharr, battled back in the second half and actually outshot Radford 5-2. There was still no score after regulation, and the game moved into overtime. In college hockey, teams play one 10-minute period, followed by a 10-minute sudden death period if the score is still tied.

If there was a play of the game for the Wildcats, it came at the end of the first overtime period. With the clock ticking down the final 15 seconds, a Radford player collided with a Davidson player in the circle and drew an honest penalty; the official awarded her a deserved penalty stroke. Radford, which had riddled the game with yelling, cursing, and overall poor conduct, knew that time was soon to expire and a successful penalty stroke in the goal would win the game. The recipient of the penalty stroke for Radford was, apparently, told by a teammate to feign an injury in order to stop the clock so Radford could set up its “play.” On the penalty stroke, the Radford hitter tapped the ball about one foot in front of her, and immediately began consulting her teammates on whether or not to run the play from the end line on the other side of the goal. While Radford players headed to face the other side of the field, Davidson players quickly took control of the ball and cleared it out of the circle, ending the game in a tie.

NOTE: The Davidson Athlete of the Week award goes to sophomore field hockey player Jennifer Roos for her great defense, corner hits, goals, her many defensive saves that would otherwise have been goals for opponents, and her overall superb play. Davidson field hockey is home for three in a row. After Wednesday’s game with Salem College, the Wildcats play Pfeiffer College this Friday and High Point College on Wednesday. Game times are 4:30.

Men's Golf

Golf Places Eighth

With all of the talk around campus about the success of football, volleyball, field hockey, and men’s soccer, the men’s golf team has been unfortunately ignored. Therefore, the golf team has not gotten any of the credit that they deserve, because they too have had an impressive fall season.

This past weekend the team played in Georgetown’s “Hoya Invitational” in Fredericksburg, Virginia. The tournament was won by Princeton, but Davidson placed eighth out of fifteen teams. Davidson’s total of 626 for the weekend put them only five shots out of fourth place, and was also the best two-round total that Davidson has had in the last five years.

Captain Mike Maggart led the team, shooting a 73 and a 76 to finish in seventh place in the 75-man field. His total of 149 put him only two shots out of second place. Three freshmen also had impressive showings over the weekend. Will McDaniel had a two-day total of 152 and Will Coble had a total of 154. Mark Raber shot a 161, but he also had one of the best shots of the tournament, holing a 120-yard shot with a seven iron. The shot was impressive not only because of the distance, but also because the right-handed Raber used his left-handed shot to lift the ball up from beside a tree.

Coach Gordon Mietz has built a strong team that ranks as one of the best that Davidson has had in years. Next Sunday through Tuesday the team travels to Campbell for the Hargrove B. Davis Invitational.

Want your name in print? Write for Davidsonian Sports! Contact Bruce Balestier at x-6217 orTom Koonce at x-621
Photo Courtesy Of College Relations

Racquetball Tourney winner Armando Sanchez-Aballi (R) after beating Bob Price (L)

Women's Soccer

Women's Soccer Improving
By WALTER WRAY

After being thrashed 8-1 by the Duke Blue Devils and dropping a one-goal decision to the Hokies of Virginia Tech, the women’s soccer team finds itself winless at 0-5-1. But with Sarah Way finding the net against Duke, Jennifer Satterfield learning quickly in the midfield, and Lisa LeNard and Liz Clarke anchoring the defense, things are not all bad for the Wildcats. A schedule conducive to victories begins following the team’s trip to Washington D.C. for the WAGS-Real Vodicka Tournament over Fall Break, Oct. 5 and 6.

The women’s soccer program remains committed to recruiting top talent by offering the unique situation of Division I competition at a first-rate academic liberal arts college. “The team is young, but they understand the circumstances, which are natural for a second-year program,” states coach Diane Boettcher. Smiling, Maria Tucker forecasts a brighter day for the team, “In October we’re going to win a lot of games,” adding diplomatically, “I think.”

NEXT HOME GAME: Sunday, Sept. 30 @ 2:00.

Intramurals

Flickerball-The Sunday
By JASON BRANNON

Fall is just about here. The birds are flying South, the leaves are changing color, and the mornings are becoming quite cool. But what better signal of the coming autumn is there than the recent arrival of the football. As the local college programs settle into their weekly regimen, so do the students on the Davidson campus, for the fall marks the start of the intramural year. Fall intramurals mean Flickerball to the Davidson campus, and Flickerball means that twisted, football-like game that often serves the dual role of entertainment and Sunday afternoon hangover remedy.

Two weeks into the season, the veterans seem to have shaken off the ill effects of their long summer layoff, and the freshmen appear to be learning quickly, though on a trial-by-fire basis. As expected, a few of the more experienced teams are off to very strong starts. D.F.W.B. F’d.W. (ask a PIKA) 3rd and Long, thumping them 52-6, and left the Old Drinking Buddies choking on their own backwash in a 27-25 squeaker. Just Average Guys, perhaps the preseason favorite, gunned down the Young Guns III by forfeit, and then spanked the Butt Pirates, 46-6. U Can’t Touch This, also 2-0, “hammered” The Legends, 40-13, and then needed only six guys to drill Nookie Shtang, 27-7. Another traditionally powerful team, Drop and Give, had played only one game as of Tuesday, beating a team.

In the women’s league, the action has proved to be equally exciting. The Wappa Happas join Ramblers as the only undefeated teams through two games, with WH beating Basement Rich by forfeit and The Cult, 6-0, and the Ramblers whitewashing The Hypothetical Team, 6-0, and 1st Rich, 13-0. The Old Ladies won their only game, rocking The Cult, 20-0.

Other results: Smurfs, Inc. beat the Blue Dogs by forfeit; Built for Comfort relaxed in a 44-14 win over Nookie Shtang; 1st Rich outscored the 3rd Thirds, 19-12; the Butt Pirates beat the Old Drinking Buddies by forfeit; Crunch ‘N Munch wore out the Love Mussels, 51-25; Kickin’ Cannon condemned Animal House in a 6-0 victory. The Thundering Herd Cure (boy, don’t we miss that name!) trampled Carpe Hoke, 31-6; Black Rash was all over The Goat Horns, 39-26; The Legends “blue” away Smurfs, Inc., 12-7; The Love Mussels flexed against the Blue Dogs, 33-12; Basement Rich booted Kickin’ Cannon, 6-0; Young Guns III were gunned down to size, 25-19; Animal House hazed 3rd Thirds, 16-0.

Remember to look at your schedules for referee times. If the refs for your team don’t show up for their assigned games, then your team will forfeit the day’s game. The second time this happens, your team will be suspended from the post-season tournament. Keep in mind that as well as being a great hangover remedy, a perfect alternative to those monotonous 12-ounce curls for exercise, and a prime opportunity to show each other what competitive jerks we can be, Flickerball is supposed to be fun. Judy Krenzer, Sterling Martin, and IMAC co-chairs Larry Dagenhart and Josh Wheliss are working hard to make it that way for everyone, so just do your part and look forward to a smoothly-run Flickerball season.

Please Recycle This Davidsonian!