THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS  
THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Photos Courtesy of College Archives

Davidson students, faculty, staff, and members of the community help set up Amber Waves of Grain, a clay representation of the United States' nuclear arsenal.

Amber Waves of Grain Set Up in Johnston Gym, Community Helps  
By MISSY MEGAN

Two weekends ago, over 200 Davidson students, faculty, staff, and Davidson residents helped in the setup of Amber Waves of Grain, a clay representation of the United States’ nuclear arsenal. The show consists of 35,000 pieces and took three days to set up. Amber Waves of Grain is an example of political art that seeks to raise people's awareness about the United States' nuclear defense policy.

Barbara Donachy, the artist, was flown in from her home in Colorado to direct the set-up of the show. Donachy also gave an informal lecture in which she discussed the history of political art and the making of Amber Waves of Grain. Although the show has been displayed in New York City, Boston, on the mall in Washington, D.C., and in West Berlin, Donachy was particularly pleased about showing her artwork at Davidson College. “This is the first time that Amber Waves of Grain has been brought to an area solely through student effort.”

The show is currently on display in Johnston Gym from 10 am-5 pm Monday through Friday and will be up until Wednesday, April 18. Volunteers are still needed to staff the information desk during the day and for takedown Wednesday, April 18, and Thursday, April 19. If interested, please call the Union Desk. The Union Gallery Committee would like to thank all volunteers who made this show possible, including the Patterson Court Houses, the SGA, and the Union Board. The exhibit was funded by the Sloan Foundation for Technological Studies, the Davidson College Art Gallery, the Chaplain’s Office, the Committee on Public Lectures, and the Union.

Kelley Distinguished Lecturer, Spring Term, 1990.  
MIRIAM USHER CHRISMAN  
University of Massachusetts, Amherst  
"IN PURSUIT OF ORDINARY PEOPLE: WRITINGS OF THE RICH AND POOR IN SIXTEENTH-CENTURY GERMANY"  
Thursday, April 19 at 7:30 pm  
Phi Hall  
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC

Mathematical Minds Meet at Davidson  
Professor Bivens Delivers Lecture, Students Present Papers  
By CARLA DAVIS

Mathematical minds in the Southeast met at Davidson for the 69th annual Mathematical Association of America (MAA) Southeastern Section on Friday and Saturday, April 6-7. About 300 professors and students, undergraduate and graduate, from Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee attended.

The annual meeting gathers those interested in mathematics, with an emphasis on teaching at the collegiate level. It includes workshops, lectures, and short talks by participating professors and students. The formal and informal meeting times provide a chance for discussions on areas of common interest such as curriculum, administration, and MAA business. In addition, graduate schools host “T.A. rush” to encourage undergraduate students to consider graduate work in mathematics with the monetary support of teaching assistantships.

This year’s meeting included a special banquet to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the MAA. The MAA is the world’s largest organization devoted to the interests of collegiate mathematics. Through its publications and meetings, the MAA provides its members with updates on developments in mathematical education and research, and information about important events in the mathematical world.

Featured speakers for the Davidson gathering included Gerald L. Alexanderson from Santa Clara University in California, whose topic was “Gaussian Binomial Coefficients.”and Jerald Dauer, holder of the Provident Life Insurance Chair of Excellence in applied mathematics at UT-Chattanooga, who spoke on “Maximizing Multiple Objectives--Is This a Mathematical Question?” The section lecturer, Irl C. Bivens of Davidson College, delivered the lecture entitled “Why 3 Is Not Simply 2+1, and Other Surprising Results About Dimension.” The section lecturer is an annually elected position and rarely is a person from the host institution. Bivens is a recent recipient of the Merten M. Hasse prize, one of the most distinguished awards given by the MAA. José Lopez Sanchez, Matt Brentjens, and John Anens from Davidson also presented papers at the conference.

Davidson Alumni and Son Speak to Pre-Med Students
By JOE MARIS

Dr. K.D. Weeks, Sr. and son Dr. K.D. Weeks, Jr. addressed a small group of pre-med students on the changes in expectations of the medical field since World War II in the 900 room last week. Representing two generations of expertise in the field of internal medicine, the father and son pair presented their opinions on the rapidly changing field that has grown from horse and buggy house calls to extensive laser technology.

Dr. Weeks, Sr., a Davidson graduate who earned his doctorate at the Duke Medical Center, presented the history of medicine from when he started in World War II to when he retired in the early eighties. Along with the obvious changes in technology, the changes in the socio-economic perspective of medicine have been dramatic. Americans have seen a dramatic increase in health care since the early forties and have watched as the government attempted to lighten the burden with numerous health care programs. Also, increases in malpractice suits and government regulation of the medical profession have not only aided in raising health care costs, but they have also affected the number of students applying to medical schools. According to Dr. Weeks, Sr., medical school attendance has dropped 25% in the last couple of years. He also added that 40% of the doctors interviewed in a recent Gallup Poll indicated that they would not enter the medical profession if they had to do it again. Dr. Weeks, Sr. maintained, however, that the personal reward one receives every day from seeing his patients is worth the extra pressures from the outside. In looking back on his 54-year career, he said that it was “a career of great personal satisfaction.”

Dr. Weeks Jr. followed his father with a brief speech touching on specific areas of concern in today’s medical profession. First, today’s doctors must deal with a more knowledgeable patient. The days when patients accepted doctors’ advice without question are over. Patients today come into the office with a great deal of consumer knowledge. The widespread publication of many consumer medical magazines has increased the patients’ desire to know exactly what the doctors are doing. Secondly, the medical profession is more than ever a business profession. Future doctors will have to take a great deal of business courses along with their usual medical courses. Finally, there is a rapidly shifting change from general practice to specialist practice. Attracted by better money and prestige, many post-graduate medical students are continuing their education in a specialty. According to Dr. Weeks, Jr., the medical profession needs more general practitioners in the smaller towns. Dr. Weeks then closed the seminar with a question and answer session.

Read The Davidsonian
Call x2148 or x2149 for news tips