Che ap "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" Habhtisontan

VOLUME LXXXII THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990 NUMBER 5

Homecoming Crowd Celebrates Davidson Victory

The Wildcats demolished the Methodist Monarchs 49-7 at Richardson Field last Saturday in front of a crowd of approximately 2,000.
Davidson had a 35-0 halftime lead and amassed 288 yards for the game. See Sports on page 13.

Davidson Alumni Elect Hutchings As First Black Alumni Trustee

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

The first black alumnus elected by fellow graduates as a Davidson trustee takes the honor seriously. “It’s not something to
trivialize,” said Dr. William S. Hutchings II '78, a family practitioner in Macon, Georgia. “It’s not every day you get
a chance to help lead one of the most prestigious colleges in the country.”

Hutchings has been working for harmony between the races his whole life, and he says he’ll bring that orientation to
the Board of Trustees when he joins it for a four-year term on January 1. “It’s an opportunity to help
raise peoples’ consciousness of issues there in the community that don’t touch all of their lives,” he said. “The whole
interracial ball game hinges on exposure. If you’re not exposed to different aspects of the community and the world you
won’t understand them, and that leads to fear and ignorance.”

Hutchings was an active Davidson student, serving as hall counselor, social chairman at Fannie & Mable’s eating house, vice-president of
the Black Student Coalition (BSC), Student Union president, and a member of the religious council on campus. He graduated with
a B.S. in biology and received a Justin Potter Foundation Scholarship to attend medical school at Vanderbilt University. He received
the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation Merit Award upon his medical school graduation. He has also been an active Davidson
alumnus, serving as a member of the Board of Visitors and working with the Leadership South consortium. Back in his
hometown of Macon, he has led the city’s interracial council.

Student Organizing Conference on East Bloc Agriculture Changes

By ELLIE BROWN

When Davidson College junior Caroline Williamson began looking for summer jobs last spring, she had no idea her search would
lead to her planning of a major global conference. But through her work in Washington D.C., with the International Policy
Council on Agriculture and Trade, she will be traveling to Budapest, Hungary, later this month to help coordinate a conference
on Eastern bloc agriculture.

The conference, which will be held at Budapest University from October 21 to 23, is formally titled “Restructuring Food and
Agriculture Systems in Central Europe and the USSR: Strategies for Policy, Investment, and Assistance.” Williamson sought out her job with
the International Policy Council as her mandatory internship for the Davidson in Washington summer academic program. Founded in 1987, the
council was created to cope with the myriad of complex domestic, international, social, economic, and political problems that are facing
global agriculture today. Its members, from both developed and developing nations, represent government, international organizations, business, banking, farming, and academia.

Williamson recalls that M. Ann Tutwiler, a 1980 Davidson graduate and associate executive director of the council, told her during
the application process that she might be working on Latin American debt policy.However, by the time Williamson arrived in Washington
last summer, planning for the conference in Budapest had begun. Williamson and another intern spent the next eight weeks mailing
5,000 invitations to individuals all over the world and keeping track of their responses. She later became conference logistics coordinator—writing
memos on travel arrangements and attendance forms, and researching agriculture in the USSR and Poland for briefing books for conference
participants. The conference will involve close to 300 participants, all experts drawn from three major ar—

Continued on Page 3

Sports

U.S. News Ranks Davidson Tenth Best

By CHARLIE GRIER

Davidson College moved into the top ten of national liberal arts colleges according to the 1990 U.S. News and World
Report guide to “America’s Best Colleges.” The ranking moves Davidson up five notches from the 1989 report. The annual guide
published by the magazine ranked the top 141 national liberal arts colleges, as determined by the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching. The foundation classified the schools on the basis of academic degrees and programs offered as well as
enrollment. The guide ranked schools in five areas: reputation, selectivity, financial resources, faculty resources, and student satisfaction. From these five
areas, U.S. News determined a percentile score and an overall rank for each school. Davidson scored highly in student selectivity
and student satisfaction.

Amherst College in Massachusetts emerged at the top of the rankings, followed closely by Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, Williams College
in Massachusetts, and Bowdoin College in Maine. Besides Davidson, the only other southern school in the ranking is Washington and
Lee, ranked 15th.

Reaction to the rankings among college administrators was positive but reserved. “It is a privilege for Davidson to be listed
among the schools on the charts,” President Kuykendall said. Robert Gardner, Dean of Admissions, echoed the thoughts of Kuykendall. “I
love it,” said Gardner. “Being in the top ten will mean a lot to the kids.” Davidson students also reacted
positively to the rankings. “I wasn’t—

Continued on Page 3

Faculty Raids on Increase in 1990s

By BAILEY FOSTER

Emory University in Atlanta started this year with four new star professors in its French Department. Duke signed professors in
raids of the faculties of Cornell, Johns Hopkins, and Princeton. Six of the faculty in the University of Wisconsin’s theater
department moved to the University of Delaware. The 1990s have brought an era of increasing faculty raids. Major universities around
the country, in an attempt to radically improve certain departments, lure top-notch faculty from other schools with the promise of
better pay and improved working conditions. According to Vice-President of financial affairs and Dean of the faculty Robert Williams, Davidson
is not involved in what he calls the “star system at major universities.” “Davidson operates on an in—

Continued on Page 3

INSIDE

News
Whisnant, former Dean at the Kennedy School, returns home.

Campus Living
New faculty profile: professor Anne De Lattre. Page 8.

Opinions
Frankie Archer's replies. Again. Page 5.
Faculty members advocate elimination of letter grades. Page 6.

Sports
Wildcats manhandle Methodist.
Streetcar Named Desire begins tonight. Page 8.
Where do Queen's women come from? Page 10.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036
