THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1990

4 D. A. Thompson | Rude Notes & Random Scribblings

What Is To Be Done?

These, my friends, are troubled times. Our government is riddled with corruption on every level. Our planet is slowly being
destroyed by land rapists and gluttons. Children are shooting each other for their shoes. Our schools are nothing less than
a disgrace. Our understanding of reasonable health care is a rather sick joke. I won’t bother saying anything about the
Exxon Defence Squad better known as the U.S. military. Rocky V comes out this week. Angela Lansbury still has her
own show on network TV. The Family Circus is read by thousands. Vanessa Redgrave keeps telling me what living is.
Rocky V comes out this week. The college spent 17 or so million dollars on a nifty new gym, and
we don’t even have maid service. Rocky V comes out this week. Almost everyone I know rides a bike or
does some other silly sort of exercise. More and more people find smoking less than socially acceptable. Helms won. Worst
of all, Rocky V comes out this week.

What is to be done? I have a few ideas about how to make the world a better place, but
most of them are pretty personal and involve several pounds of Jell-O, a few albino kittens, and Laurie Partridge in
something crotchless. (But then Danny keeps coming in with Shirley Jones in those God-awful bell bottoms, and well, it just
never seems to work out). Instead of boring the hell out of everyone who pretends to be your friend, you
can vent your aggressions in the Opinions section. Excuse the digression. Back to our question: What is to be done?
Who knows? I mean if a gelatin-swabbed Laurie can’t come up with a decent solution, who on earth can? You.
(Yes, this is turning into yet another pathetic plea for people to write for The Davidsonian). Imagine the opportunity. Instead
of boring the hell out of everyone who pretends to be your friends, you can vent your aggressions in the
Opinions section. Of course, we’re not going to print it if it sucks, but we’ll at least read it. Go
ahead and express yourself. Let loose about that which annoys you, or that of which you are particularly proud. Tired
of the conspiracy of conservatism on campus, or of the liberal loud mouthing about conservative conspiracies? Write about it. The
potential for fame lies at your feet, so write for The Davidsonian. Please, we’re getting a little desperate. As of
now (Sunday night at 10:30) all we have for Opinions this week is my little blurb which you’ve almost finished
reading, a plea for vegetarian dining, and some silliness (which we’re not going to print, as it happens to suck)
from a very odd woman in Oyster Bay who seems to have combined all the best tenets from the Summer
of Love and the McCarthy era in one. I’m not kidding, she actually wants us to join her in supporting
the establishment of November 14 as “I Love America Day”. (See what we deal with up here?!)

In all seriousness, every section (News, Sports, Features, and Opinions) of our beloved paper could use a boost in the
participation department. Please be in touch with any of the editors or associate editors as named on the masthead and
tell us what you’d like to do. We need your help. Remember, The Davidsonian is the paper for and of
the entire student body (i.e. it’s no longer controlled by a self-flattering regime of dorks like it used to be).
The new order wants your input, so let’s have it. Call an editor, or our office at 2148, today.

R.O.T.C. Cadet Pens Chagrin Over Thoughts Of War | By CINCINNATUS

ROTC aims to develop its cadets into effective leaders. Being an ROTC cadet in the present day, the foremost question
in my mind is, “To where will I be asked to lead?” In light of recent events, “to war” seems
a realistic response. If I were someone else I might be terribly excited by the prospect of going to war.
I might grab my gun and my men and scream “Finally! We get to fight!” The simple fact is, and
I think I speak for many other cadets at Davidson, I don’t want war. The education I have received at
Davidson, I bring a lot into question that I would otherwise overlook. I’ve learned to think before I act, and
have come to value consistency between my beliefs and my actions. I fear the...day when I am asked to act,
despite my beliefs. The current Middle East crisis concerns all of us at Davidson. As an ROTC cadet, thoughts of
an impending war weigh all the more on my mind. When I first chose to participate in the ROTC program
at Davidson, our government leaders were forecasting cuts in military spending in response to Perestroika and the welcomed thawing of
the Cold War. Not long after we had begun to deflate the “military balloon,” a certain Saddam Hussein startled our
leaders into blowing air into the balloon once again. The simple fact is, I do not add to the sentiment
for war, and I think I speak for many other cadets at Davidson, I don't want war. I’m scared of
having to lead people into a situation I don’t fully understand or even wholly agree with. Much due to the
type of education I received, I don’t doubt my decision to join ROTC. My participation, I trust, does and perhaps
may positively influence future conditions as my position in the Army changes. All said, my enthusiasm for the program is
as strong as ever... but so is my insistence not to be shoved into a corner and classified “Militarily Motivated:
Eager for War.” I see what’s going on with more sensitivity than that... and perhaps worry more than you.

Sara Carlson & Adriana Tavernise

Enjoy A Vegetarian Thanksgiving

As Thanksgiving and Christmas approach with alarming speed, most people’s mouths water in anticipation of a home-cooked, round, juicy, Butterball
turkey or sumptuously prepared leg of lamb. Visions of giblet gravy, pork bread stuffing, and blood pudding dance in their
heads. But for some, holiday dinners instill anxiety. “How can I turn down Grandma’s lovingly prepared honey-roasted ham? What about
Uncle Bob’s famous fried chicken?” we ask ourselves. For most of you out there, these questions never raise their ugly
visages and probably never will. In fact, you don’t really give a damn. You eat meat, and do so comfortably
and with relish. Vegetarianism is a far-out hippie thing that went out of style with bell-bottoms and love beads. That
is fine with us, but for those who are also struggling with their first meatless holidays, we offer an Alternative
Thanksgiving.

Scenario 1: “Hey mom, you know how you and dad always complain about not getting enough help in the kitchen
while we’re out visiting with high school friends? Yeah, well guess what! I'll do all the cooking if you’ll agree
to one teensy condition! NO MEAT!!” At this point, whip out one of the multitudinous vegetarian cookbooks and elbow your
way up to the oven. Your parents will be so glad that they get to actually watch the owl games
that they’ll be fairly easily convinced.

Scenario 2: “No, Grandma, vegetarianism is not a disease. Don’t worry, even though I won’t be ‘getting better,’ it’s not
contagious. No, it’s not that I don’t like your cooking, I just can’t enjoy your leg of lamb after that
day I spent at the petting zoo.” At this point, hand her some tofu and remind her of how much
everyone has always hated leftover turkey sandwiches.

Scenario 3: You were unable to stop the preparations, and must face a table full of ‘traditional’ dishes. Stop, take
a deep breath, and ask for the mashed potatoes, yams, peas, and rolls. Fill your plate, smile sweetly, and enjoy.
When your dad challenges you to munch down on a meal fit for a starving college student, tell him you’re
experimenting with new diets and to be happy you’re ovo-lacto. In the puzzled silence following your announcement, dig in. Remember
the spit-it-in-your-napkin maneuver you practiced in the third grade? Try that... Above all, keep a sense of humor about it.
If your mother runs sobbing from the table or your father stares in total disbelief at the liberal values you
brought home from college, do what your conscience tells you. Nobody is taking notes, and if one bite of bird
flesh will save a twenty-year relationship, hold your nose and wash it down with a big gulp of the nearest
liquid. Remember the spit-it-in-your-napkin maneuver you practiced in the third grade? Try that, or station a dog under your chair.
If all else fails, excuse yourself, join in the caf, and drive to the nearest all-night convenience store.

ADDRESSERS WANTED IMMEDIATELY
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY
EXCELLENT PAY
WORK AT HOME
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-395-3283

Having Questions About Goals, Career, Life, Education?
GARY L. PATRICK, PH. D
PSYCHOLOGIST
Can Help You Put Problems In Perspective
Career Counseling and Development
Personal Guidance
808 Southwest Drive
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-6710
