6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

JAY J. CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief  
MARK D. PUCKETT, Executive Editor  
GIRISH GVALANI, News Editor  
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor  
HEATH HARDAGE, Features Editor  
DOUG GIBSON, Inside Art Editor  
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor  
ED MATTHEWS, Photography Editor  
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager  
BILL SCOUTEN, Advertising Manager  

Founded in 1914

Tearing Down Trees for Tennis

Cutting down the pine trees above the tennis courts seems ironic in that the removal occurred so close to the celebration of Earth Week. It is some solace that a “short growing hedge” will replace the trees, though the feeling of loss cannot be fully assuaged. Should fifteen-year-old trees be replaced because of the undesirable shading they create for tennis players? What is undesirable shading anyway? Perhaps the students should have been informed since it is certain that some might have objected. Even if no objections were to arise, why couldn’t the administration let the students know what was happening in any case? There is much change in the college now, which makes Davidson’s snug microcosm perpetually less snug. We should, however, ask which changes are paramount to our benefit. And which are not. The cutting down of trees with the environment in its present state neither seems necessary, nor prudent.

Number Zero

The SGA president does not draw a number in the housing lottery because he is given a number: number zero. According to Director Richard Terry in the Residence Life Office, “It’s always been that way.” The practice, therefore, is some sort of tradition, a tradition that dictates practice without reason. Can it be said that the student president’s work entails more than the job of the Union President or that of the editors of Quips and Cranks and The Davidsonian? If being SGA president necessitates high visibility on campus, then the necessity is understood. But last year’s president used his number for an apartment as did this year’s. How much of a “high visibility” living situation is an apartment which is set off from the normal campus? However, the president is not at fault, for anyone given such a number would use the number for the best place to live—in this case, the apartments. But when the only impetus for a practice is an outdated unknown tradition, the tradition should necessarily end.

-mp.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines. All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus. Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25" or 3.5" IBM or Macintosh-formatted diskettes. All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names printed with their work. The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only. Letters should be under two hundred words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter. The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic. All submissions should include the author's home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).

Write for Opinions

We know most students are Care to write a column next year? Sign up at Dean's office beginning next week, April 16 - 20.

Opinions

Swanson Sparks Earth Day Awareness: Just Do It

Studies are just being done and - John Swanson '93

I am a troubled person. I’m angry at myself, and at the rest of our world. Just today I heard that 200,000 gallons of crude oil were spilled in the Allegheny River, near Pittsburgh, PA. Residents of this city-on-the-move now have to find alternative water supplies in order to avoid the contamination so carelessly dumped upon them by the irresponsible, monolithic oil companies that have managed to lobby for bills that benefit their interests at the expense of those people like us. Of course, it is all too easy to pass this incident off with the rationalization that “There’s nothing that I can do, and besides, Pittsburgh isn’t my backyard.” This defeatist attitude is too deeply ingrained in the American way of thought. Our “throw-away culture," spawned by such “technological advances” as McDonald’s and frozen food TV dinners during the 1950’s, grew exponentially during the 1970's “Me-Decade” which so unfortunately emphasized the quick-fix mentality that haunts us today. So here we are on the brink of a new decade, a year after the horrible Exxon Valdez oil spill irreparably damaged Alaska’s once pristine wilderness. As an avid outdoorsman, I am appalled. As a human being, I am sickened that Exxon has so far gotten off as lightly as it has. No fine in terms of dollars and cents will ever make amends for the immense destruction caused by this tragic human error. More bad news, folks. I am sure many of you have discovered the unique retreat offered by the Appalachian mountains in northwestern North Carolina, only two hours away from cozy Davidson. Mount Mitchell, the East Coast’s tallest peak, is gravely threatened by extensive deforestation due to acid rain. The numbers are now rolling in. It is clear that sulfur precipitates all along the Eastern U.S. are destroying the trees at higher elevations which provide our planet with vital oxygen. Yet, there is relatively inconsequential federal funding for alternative energy sources such as solar power, due to the powerful pro-Industrial lobbies funded by large chemical and oil companies. The splendid retreat of Mount Mitchell may not be here in ten years. Again, we ask, “What can I do?” I could go on and on with these alarming facts, but my purpose is not to list all these problems. Rather, I want to emphasize the positive things we all can contribute in order to improve our situation. Many of you have probably heard that Sunday, April 22, is EARTH DAY. This day was first proclaimed twenty years ago in 1970 when a frustrated group of activists wanted to alert the complacent public that things had to change if we all wanted to continue life on this fragile planet. As a result, the modern Environmental Movement was born. Today we are standing on the edge of an abyss across which we might transcend, or into which we might descend, depending on the choices we make and the actions we take. It is never easy to make radical changes in our lives, especially as we get older and more set in our ways. But I urge you to take a stand and do something to make a difference. We are not merely America’s future. That is too narrow an outlook for the 21st century. The problems we face require a world outlook rather than a xenophobic (us vs. them) mentality which promulgates selfish values. We need to return to simpler, earlier values, because if we don't it is unforeseeable that we will still be here.

I realize that I have a long way to go until I am a truly “kind” person. But I ride my bike around, or walk as much as I can to cut down my gas consumption. I try not to use the A/C. I use less hot water, and try to recycle as much as I can. But I know I can do more, and I will do more as I continue to educate myself on these vital issues that stare us in the face. I’m not preaching; I am begging you as fellow human beings to contribute in some way.

EARTH DAY will be celebrated in the Charlotte area at Freedom Park, beginning at 1 p.m. on Sunday, April 22, 1990. I will be there as a volunteer for the Earth Day Coalition. We still need volunteers in all phases of the operation. If you can take the time your effort will be greatly appreciated. There will be over 50 local businesses and organizations in a fair-type setting, along with music, food, and information on how you can do something to save the Earth. But please be aware, EARTH DAY is not a quick-fix. One day of consciousness-raising is not enough to change things as they are. I hope it will serve to inspire all of us to implement real changes in our lives for the benefit of all of us. Idealistic? Yes. Practical? Only if we make the effort. Complacency is our worst enemy. Even if you can’t help out, I invite everyone in the college community to come down to Charlotte on April 22. If you want to volunteer, call the Coalition at 334-1990. If you have any questions, call me at 896-6616. I can give you directions, etc.

P.S. If you are interested in some concrete things you can do to help the environment, I recommend the $4.95 paperback best-seller, "50 Simple Things You Can Do to Save the Earth," published by the Earthworks Group. JUST DO IT! I myself am just now taking a stand on these problems, and John Swanson is a history major from Tucson, Arkansas.

What's So Special About South Africa?
Charles Scarborough '90

During my several years as a Davidson student, I have looked on the student protests against the trustees’ decision not to divest from South Africa with only tacit interest. As I have become more liberal due to my Junior Year Abroad experience, I recently became much more interested when the issue came around again this year.

However, one thing still irks me: I cannot for the life of me see any rational reason why we should single out South Africa as the “International Bad Boy.” South Africa’s government acts like the Pope in comparison to the governments of many other countries. Some examples:

1) Somalia. The government’s “scorched-earth policy,” consisting of “the poisoning of wells, the destruction of water-storage tanks, and the killing of livestock has led to widespread hunger and disease” (U.S. News and World Report). The situation is so bad that thousands have even fled to

2) Guatemala. The government’s genocidal forces have been using “death squad tactics” for a decade. In the late 1970s and early 80s, government forces massacred more than 70,000 Indians, and made 40,000 more “disappear.” Nearly 200,000 have fled to Mexico, and thousands more have been forced to participate in work-for-food labor schemes by the government, much as the Untermenschen were compelled to do by the Nazis.

3) Iraq. The Iraqis have been indiscriminately killing Kurds for several years now. International observers have confirmed that Iraqi troops have been using chemical weapons against these people, and the U.S. Senate has even accused Iraq of genocide.

4) Israel. Some of the most blatant human rights violations of the past ten years have been committed by Israel in the West Bank. “For more than a year and a half the Israeli civil administration in the West Bank closed all Palestinian educational institutions” (Progressive). Even schooling at home was prohibited. Everyone who

Continued on Page 7