THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990 7

D.A. Thompson | Rude Notes & Random Scribblings

Suck Back a Cold One and Raise Your Awareness

Yes, indeed, it’s that time of year again. The leaves are turning, a chill has come over the air, and the Carolinian clay has started to turn into that runny red mud that won’t go away until sometime in July. While these emblems of autumn have always warmed my heart, there is a new placard of the period of which I am even more deeply fond, Alcohol Awareness Week. I’ve been begging for something like this little fiesta to be instituted since my freshman year: an entire week dedicated solely to the celebration of intoxicating beverages.

Davidson College is in desperate need of such an event. Sure we have plenty of alcohol on campus already, but do we really appreciate it? Are we truly aware of its capabilities? Do we treat it with the respect and honor it deserves? I think not. All too often we see alcohol abused and mistreated on Patterson Court. How many times have I seen careless and irresponsible 21-year-olds try to carry up too many beers at once, and then sacrilegiously spill them all over the stairs? How many times have I seen freshmen struggle through the crowds to get themselves a cup of that delightfully warm Busch, only to drop it to the latest hip hop rap crap? How many times have I suffered to hear people tell me that they don’t even drink? Alarmingly enough, there are several students at Davidson who actually use the alternative beverages for something other than a mixer. This abstinence and ignorance is absolutely absurd. We cannot permit these atrocities to exist any longer at our beloved institution of self-abuse.

That’s why we need Alcohol Awareness Week, a fun-filled series of seven days which all are sure to enjoy. Just look at these action-packed events:

Sunday - A discussion of the finer things, Makers Mark, Wild Turkey 101, and Jägermeister. This forum will be followed by a panel discussion of the 1991 sports cars and which of these liquors best accompanies these little crash and burn and die too young deathtraps.

Monday - Pub Night! Steven Lilly leads you into the Korner. Don’t worry if you’re not old enough to enter, freshmen; somebody (?) is sure to get you a beer.

Tuesday - Will Keim speaks on Balcony Urination Techniques and will answer questions about his trip to the Grand Canyon.

Wednesday - Over the Hump on Patterson Court. Forget your work and bag that 8:15, come get butt-wasted instead!

Thursday - The weekend approaches. Prepare for it properly at the “Puking With Grace” seminar, hosted by Mark Swofford.

Friday through Sunday - No need to bother with scheduled events here. You’ve had all week to get ready and it’s time to fly solo! We recommend, however, continuous intoxication resulting from the steady intake of undiluted grain alcohol. Remember, too, not to miss the Helms rallies while you’re in this most inebriated state, Jesse’s fans just love loudmouth liberal college kids at their parties, especially if they’re naked and rip-roarin’ hammered! (If you’re gonna go, why not in style, eh?)

Yes, I am most certainly looking forward to Alcohol Awareness Week. I’m sure it’ll be just as successful as Greek Week was to the promotion of mature and reasonable consumption around here. But let’s not forget about the future, folks. Break out your bongs and your bell bottoms because rumor has it that there’s going to be a Most Mellow and Meaningful Marijuana Meeting Month sometime in the spring.

Tosh Crystal | The Daze of Our Minds

Talk is Cheap: A Lesson in Misinformation

This is going to seem amazing to most of the campus. Just thought I’d warn you first. I learned a very important lesson about real jour-As with all situations involving controversy, the blame was quickly assigned, the fingers quickly pointed. There is blame to rest on my shoulders due to my brush with libel as far as the column I nearly wrote. And there is blame to rest with those.

Hair Designer's Studio & Salon Supplies
BOOKING APPOINTMENTS
MON-THURS: 10-2
OPEN FRI: 10-6 & SAT: 10-3
WALK-INS WELCOME
Children’s Haircut & Style $3.00
Male or Female Haircut $5.00
Permanent Wave Starting At $25.00
892-6982.

GET AN EDUCATION IN SCHOLARSHIPS WITH AIR FORCE ROTC.
Your college education represents one of your most important career decisions. Join Air Force ROTC, and you may be eligible for different scholarship programs that can help pay for that education. But you'll learn something else, too: that Air Force ROTC opens opportunities for you to take your college degree higher, faster, and further than you ever realized. Imagine your status as an Air Force officer, and get an education in opportunity — call CAPT ERIC SEAY 547-4537.

Journalism, and I almost learned too late. Too late for a lot of people, the least of which myself. This week, I was going to use my little allotment of newsprint to rip the Faculty Executive Committee to shreds for the much-debated academic calendar which has been proposed for the 1992-93 academic year. BUT, at the last minute (and I’m not kidding when I say that), I learned that my sources were, in fact, very much mistaken about some of the information they had passed on to me. To whom did I speak? Well, relax for a minute, and I'll tell you.

Before I had read the S.G.A. minutes regarding the goings-on at their most recent meetings, I had been informed that the Faculty Executive Committee had proposed and passed the changes that we are all so upset about. Campus commentary about the subject has been rampant. And I, for one, ate up all the rhetoric blaming specific faculty members and the committees behind them. We all did. The scary thing is my sources were pretty credible. They were (I’m not gonna tell the names, silly, that’s my whole point!!!) members of the S.G.A. and people who are pretty close to the organization. I’m not blaming them, nor am I calling them liars. They’re not. They simply passed on misinformation. The problem is not that they were just making stuff up, ‘cause they weren’t. They just weren’t really aware of the entire situation surrounding the academic calendar changes, just parts of it.

So is there really any blame to be placed? Yes. There are a great deal of things wrong, I believe, with a calendar that raises so much angst amongst the student body that will bear the seal of the administration. There are members of any organization, be it the S.G.A. or any other, who pass on half-truths and partial facts. When someone is in a position of respect, like the S.G.A., what they say can have a great deal of effect. However, when that respect is misused, or the responsibility that accompanies respect is ignored, then what the S.G.A. member in question says can be harmful, or even destructive.

My advice? Scrap the calendar and give us our extra exam days back. (This is the opinions section, after all.) All Davidsonian writers should double, even triple-check sources. And the people on campus whose voices tend to be heard and understood should be aware of the fact that everyone likes to repeat what they hear from them. Therefore, what is heard needs to be truth. So give us a break, not just your version of the facts.

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization. This program works! No investment needed. Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50. Plus a chance at $5000 more!