THE DAVIDSONIAN BASKETBALL THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990

Wildcat's Success Could Hinge On Freshmen
By BRUCE BALESTIER

Last year’s 4-24 campaign was a frustrating one for the Wildcats and first-year coach Bob McKillop; a hellish early-season schedule (losses to St. John’s, Duke, Virginia, and Wake Forest) buried them. This year’s squad has a radically different complexion, though, and if McKillop can find consistent outside shooting and a reliable point guard from among his charges, a winning season and a top conference finish are surely within reach.

The point guard spot is, at the moment, up for grabs. Six players, seniors Darry Strickland and Turner Gilmore, juniors Sterling Freeman and Paul Denmond, and freshmen Pat Holloway and Jason Zimmerman, are in the midst of a five-week period which ought to determine a successor, or successors, to the graduated Allan Hunter. Denmond seems the most likely candidate for the spot; he started nearly every game last year at off guard. But everyone has a chance, and coach Bob McKillop has made clear that he has “no qualms whatsoever about starting a freshman,” provided he can “make the adjustment to college basketball” as a student and as an athlete. Don’t be surprised to see either Holloway or Zimmerman starting at the point.

The forward positions are similarly vacant due to the departure of Jay Schmitt and Mo Gray. Presently, 6’7" sophomore J.D. Heuer seems to have an edge over junior Paul Drobnitch and junior college transfer Jeff Chapin at the big forward slot. Swingmen Janko Narat and Scott Alford and forwards Ron Horton and James Marsh ought to compete for the small forward role.

The center and off guard positions seem rock solid, with 6’11" sophomore Detlef Musch and 6’3" junior Paul Denmond ready to reprise their starting roles of a year ago. Musch averaged 9.9 points and 6.7 rebounds last year and bulked up a much-needed twenty pounds over the summer with a difficult weight program. McKillop feels that he has “[taken] himself from one level to another level” since the end of last season. Denmond has, apparently, answered all challenges in the first two weeks of practice and seems prepared to improve upon his team-high 13.4 points per game of a year ago. Says McKillop, “His defense has been superb, his shot selection has improved, [and] his shooting consistency has become better... he is making his statement about where he is going to fit into our plans.”

The large question mark with this year’s team pertains to outside shooting. Last season’s squad shot 42.6% from the field, and shooting...

Photo Courtesy of Sports
No. 4 Paul Denmond is a strong contender for point guard.

Big South
By BRUCE BALESTIER

Great news came for the Big South Conference this summer when the NCAA announced that, effective this season, the Big South tournament champion will face the winner of the Southwestern Athletic Conference for the privilege of a spot in the 64-team NCAA tournament.

The heavy favorite to be playing in that game is Coastal Carolina. Davidson, along with Campbell, UNC-Asheville, and Winthrop, all have a chance to dethrone Coastal, while Baptist, Augusta, and Radford seem less likely to do so.

Coastal Carolina
There’s no mistaking it; every other team in the Big South is chasing Coastal Carolina. Four double-figure scorers, among them three all-league performers, return from last year’s team that ran roughshod through the conference schedule with an 11-1 record. 6’8" forward Tony Dunkin (19.1 ppg, 6.6 rpg) leads the parade; he was named Big South Player of the Year last season as a freshman. Guard Robert Dowdell (15.3 ppg, 6.9 apg) and 6’10" DuWayne Cheatam (13.6 ppg, 7.2 rpg) joined him on the all-conference team. The Chanticleers seem an obvious choice to...Shot became less reliable as the season progressed. Said McKillop, “I don’t believe we had enough threats other than P.D. from the outside.” The ability of defenses to concentrate on Denmond diminished his effectiveness. The freshman class will be relied on to take some of the pressure off Denmond. McKillop confided that the “primary focus of our recruiting was to bring in people who could score and could shoot.” Zimmerman, Holloway, and fellow freshmen Janko Narat and Scott Alford all fill that bill.

After two trying years as an independent, conference affiliation means a great deal to the program; the possibility of a conference title and a possible NCAA tournament berth is an exciting one. With close games last season against Winthrop and UNC-Asheville, McKillop believes that the team has already made a “statement that we are competitive with the Big South,” and his sights are set high; “we coach and play to win championships,” he said.

So things are coming together at last; McKillop took care of his greatest liabilities, perimeter shooting and ball handling, by bringing in a deep and talented recruiting class. Recruiting expert Bob Gibbons lavished praise upon that class, calling it “the strongest we’ve seen at Davidson in some time, and a well-rounded group that will help in every area. In the Big South, they have easily the best recruiting class.” But McKillop acknowledges that the freshmen will “be put in the fire immediately.” The success of this year’s team just might depend on how smoothly those newcomers are able to make the transition from high school to college basketball.

Prediction: 15-12, 9-5 in Big South (2nd place)

Conference Chases

Coastal Carolina
Repeat.

Campbell
The Camels handed Coastal Carolina their only league defeat last season and tied for second with a 7-5 mark. Guards Mark Mocnik (13.4 ppg) and Rod Gourdine (10.3 ppg) will bear the brunt of the scoring load; 6’9" Marvin Edmonds and 6’5" Reggie Smith should handle the rebounding and shot-blocking chores.

Winthrop
With the graduation of Shaun Wise, Winthrop coach Steve Vacendak is left with the unenviable task of replacing his leading scorer and top assist man. Lucky for him, a couple of talented players remain at his disposal; junior guard George Henson (15.8 ppg) proved himself a reliable scorer last season and should receive assistance from 6’5" Andy McKoy and 6’6" Mark Hailey.

UNC-Asheville
The Bulldogs tied Campbell for second in the Big South with a 7-5 record last year but have been ravaged by graduation. Their pressing need is to fill the void left by the departures of leading scorer Milton Moore and point guard Maurice Caldwell. Guard Darryl Sanders (11.0 ppg) and 6’9" Brent Keck will be relied on to pick up the slack.

Augusta
The Jaguars return a host of young talent; marked improvement upon last year’s 4-8 conference record seems unavoidable. Leading scorer Brian Schmall (15.0 ppg, 4.7 apg) returns for his junior campaign; junior Keenan Mann (14.9 ppg, 7.4 rpg) and sophomore Derek Stewart (14.9 ppg, 6.5 rpg, 2.9 bpg) promise to enforce the paint with authority.

Radford
After a pretty dismal campaign a year ago (3-9, 7-22), including a 1-12 mark on the road, coach Oliver Purnell’s Highlanders seem ready for only negligible improvement. Senior center Ron Shelburne (11.9 ppg) will man the middle and sophomore guard Doug Day (11.6 ppg) has promise, but there is little else.

Baptist
The loss to graduation of Darytl Hall (18.2 ppg, 8.5 rpg), last year’s conference scoring and rebounding champion, and forward Luther Tutt (13.9 ppg, 8.0 rpg) looks to be insurmountable for the Buccaneers. Guard David Oliver (14.8 ppg) ought to help, but Baptist seems destined to hold down last place in the conference.

Support the Wildcats Against the Swedish National Team this Saturday.