Wednesday, February 14, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA presidential and VP candidates make their appeals to voters

Candidates for SGA President

Clay Adams
There comes a time in every student's life when he or she looks around, thinks of their interests, abilities, and
past experiences, and decides to cash in their chips. I’m a junior, have been on the CCRL for two years,
served as fraternity rush co-chairman and worked at the library and the Commons. This year, I have concentrated on being
a hall counselor and an English major, but in past years I have dipped my fingers into everything from The
Davidsonian to the Center for Special Studies. Consequently, I know people all over the college and community who can serve
as valuable resources. Endeavoring to become president of the Student Government Association is one of the most exciting goals that
I have ever set. The issues of student solidarity and quality of student life are the most important areas that
student government deals with. No matter how many committees the SGA creates, though, these concerns must also be the vital
interests of the student body. Make yourself heard. Do what you want to do. Make Davidson a place where you
learn what matters to you. The election is Tuesday, Feb. 20.

— Cecily Craighill
As a candidate for SGA President, I would like to ask you to take the time to consider what you
are looking for from your Student Government Association in the year to come. One of the things that frustrates me
most, yet excites me most about this campus is the latent power of the student voice. In an SGA-sponsored Semester
Forum a few weeks ago, Dr. Holland talked about the persuasive power of students, particularly here on the Davidson campus.
Not only did he reinforce a thought I have held for several years now, but he also made me more
aware of the potentially tremendous resource I could call on during my year in office. The power of students has
always been a force to contend with, especially recently as we have seen with the massive uprisings and changes in
China and Eastern Europe. They achieved wonders in a repressive, totalitarian situation—think of what we can do with the freedom
we control. My purpose in running for president is not to pad my resume or impress my friends, but to
become an active believer. I can represent every student equally and fairly, and I hope that you will trust me
to do that. My parents and both sets of grandparents were missionaries and teachers in China and Taiwan. I lived
in Taiwan on a seminary campus for six years. Service, duty, and hard work have always been stressed in my
family, and I have also been given the opportunity to see how the internal political workings of a school administration
operate. I have been on the Senate for a year and a half as the Rusk House senator. I am
a Resident Advisor, and have devoted much time to the Student Health Options and Concerns Committee as its SGA liaison.
Issues are a must in any campaign, and I am no different in feeling that there are certain situations on
this campus that need immediate attention. Foremost is the need for increased and improved security and safety measures. Living down
the hill two years in a row, I know what it’s like to walk home from the library in the
dark. The unavailability of the police officers disturbs me, and the fact that no one has been hurt yet is
no excuse for complacency. The semester system is also something that has priority on my list, and I look forward
to student input on that subject. Athletics is a perennial issue, and once the Baker Sports Complex is fully operating,
one of great importance. As always, student needs and concerns are primary, particularly in the case of minority and international
students. Davidson is growing and changing at a breathtaking rate. The sports complex, the new art building, and the Campaign
for Davidson will all help push Davidson College into the forefront of American education. We need to consider not only
our immediate needs, but those of the future. I feel that I have the energy, experience, and enthusiasm to help
guide Davidson to that future.

Brian Healy
As a candidate for SGA President there are two issues I want to get across and make progress on while
in office. Davidson College has no policy on date rape and there has been a lot of racism lately. I
want to bring about more unity between blacks, whites, and internationals. In the past three years I have been involved
in fraternity activities, and I am presently a member of the Date Rape Committee and the Women’s Concerns Committee.

Doug Jobe
As a candidate for SGA President, I, Doug Jobe, would like to express my feelings on what SGA and I
can do for you. This past year, I have served as a SGA house representative and also served as the
SGA representative to the faculty committee on Education Policy. From this experience, I fully understand the high demands of this
position and its large role for our school. Although the student body is divided by houses, classes, and majors, the
one place that we can all come together is in the SGA. Thus, if the students were to unite behind
the SGA then we canbe a force to be reckoned with. What I would like to do is to make
the SGA a respected force on campus, meaning that it is taken seriously by students, faculty, and administration so that
all its views and suggestions can be exercised. To incorporate the student body’s best interests, I want to fully utilize
the resources that the SGA and students possess. In doing so, I wish to inspire and initiate the power in
each and every one of you to serve our purposes in a positive way. These are key issues I would
like to address: add to and update present lighting, create a viable escort service, reevaluate the semester system—13 1/2 to
14 weeks or more holidays, oppose the present proposal of minus grades, implement a unified grading scale, exam schedule—keep length
or increase reading days, more emphasis on community involvement of students and SGA.

Cordell Jones

I do not have as much experience as many of my fellow candidates, but it is with a great deal
of excitement and determination that I offer you my candidacy for President of SGA. I do not plan to propose
any radical changes with the SGA, but my goal is to see more accessible SGA meetings and members. This will
create a more unified student body and enable the concerns of each student to be considered. As the only class
of ’92 candidate, I will not be bogged down with the important decisions facing all graduates. Thus, I will have
more time and energy to devote towards SGA. Come support a candidate who will be here for two more years
to see the changes we as a student body will make. Vote Feb. 20th!

-Kim Short

I want to take this opportunity to tell you about myself and some of my ideas for the SGA. I
have been involved in many activities on the Davidson campus and in the community. I give campus tours, am a
member of the Rusk Service Committee and the Library faculty committee, and have helped organize Parents Weekend and SGA Weekend.
This year I was selected to be on the Student Campaign Committee, which was formed to help organize events for
donors visiting the campus. This position has enabled me to work with members of all areas of the Davidson administration
and to keep abreast of future plans for Davidson, such as the new Union and the Visual Arts Building. In
the community, I adopted a grandmother through the YSSC and this is my second year as an instructor in the
Community Youth Arts Program.

One of my main concerns about Davidson is the lack of communication between the faculty, administration, athletic department, campus organizations,
and the student body. By addressing this problem, students could be more informed and have more influence in campus decisions.
I would like to develop a system to allow students to voice their concerns, which would include a form for
students to notify the SGA of their suggestions and regular Senate forums for students to respond to the SGA’s actions
on issues. A means of alerting the different facets of the campus of SGA decisions and events must also be
implemented. Other issues I see facing Davidson are security, African-American concerns, and women’s concerns. Thanks for taking the time to
read this article and I hope that you will also take the time to vote next Tuesday.

Candidates for Vice President

Jason Brannon

George Bush did nothing; lil’ Danny Quayle does nothing (Thank God!!!); come to think of it, most vice presidents do
just that—nothing (with the exception of the almighty and oh-so-honorable Tim “Sparky” Sparks, that is). Has it become an accepted
rule that a vice president's duties consist solely of kissing babies, throwing out the opening pitch at Orioles games, carrying
around the President's luggage, and weaseling your way out of reporters' questions while the Supreme Executive is having some deformity
removed from his body? If these are the requirements, then hell—I, Jason Brannon, am your man! I kiss each of
my thirteen children nightly, throw a befuddling 100-mile-an-hour change-up that would fool even Oriole’s catcher Mickey Tettleton, pull around and
steer those suitcases with the little wheels on the bottom like no one ever has, and can b.s. with the
best of them. As you can see, I can also lie like a politician.

As the Vice President of the Davidson College Student Government Association, I surely would not have to accept such incredible
responsibilities as my counterpart in the Federal Government does; I do promise, however, that I would attack the duties which
do come with the job with the vigor and commitment which are so crucial, yet so often neglected in this
important position. As a second-generation Davidson student, I have heard the praises commonly sung by dedicated alumni. For the most
part, I wholeheartedly agree with them. Davidson is a wonderful place with the potential to be even greater, and it
is the tapping of this potential which I feel should be the focus of any on-campus organization, particularly the student
government. A unified, involved student body is a necessity. The Davidson student body is a highly intelligent, creative, diverse, and
outgoing bunch of young adults, who, if joined together, can accomplish anything they desire. Together, we can make Davidson an
even more ideal place to work, play, and live our lives. And unlike the Sports Complex or the...

See MORE VP HOPEFULS, page 4
