8 CANADA, from page 5

A 20-hour rock block with the Rolling Stones, pressed the pedal to the metal, and headed for the Great White
North... to Quebec and the Winter Carnival. What else are liberal arts students supposed to do? The time was 5:55
p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 8, 1990. Thirteen hours later, as Davidson students cast aside their books to enjoy the FAC
and a 60-degree heat wave, we crossed over the Thousand Islands Bridge into Canada, listening to Geddy Lee sing Bob
and Doug Mackenzie’s vintage tune, "Takeoff, to the Great White North." We were finally in Canada—after several cans of Mountain
Dew, an apple, and one banana—and were greeted by the customs agent who asked us (in true Canadian vernacular) “Got
anything to declare, hoser... eh?!” We almost told him the truth—four cans of Vienna sausages, three bananas, three apples, a
bunch of fruit juices, and a partridge in a pear tree—but didn’t.

After customs, the birthing pains of a morning appetite began. We timed the pangs and decided that it was time
to eat. After a most pleasing breakfast of Egg McMuffins and Danish, we were off to compete with the tail
end of the Montreal rush hour. We flew down the highway (even faster than most Canadians) at about 70 mph
(116 km/h) and what's more, we didn’t really know where the heck we were going! We even occasioned an officer
of the Canadian mounted highway patrol (and his horse) who had pulled a semi for speeding... the horse wasn’t even
breathing hard! Superb conditioning....

The suburbs of Quebec bear a semblance to Brooklyn, NY... a bunch of tenement buildings, roads with more potholes than
Noriega’s face, and run-down gas stations charging ungodly high prices to pay the rent (it was an Exxon station—maybe that’s
why). The old city (Vieux Quebec) is located on the top of a mountain, sporting steep cliffs that overlook the
now frozen St. Lawrence River. The French have never been known to have a very effective army, but John and
I could not help but wonder, as we charged up the steep and very icy embankment of the Citadel, how
the French could, even in their greatest lapse of military aptitude, lose the Battle of Quebec (of French and Indian
War fame) to a bunch of English redcoats, led by General James Wolfe. The English couldn’t even beat a bunch
of ill-armed, ill-clad, ill-mannered, ill-tempered, sexually frustrated Minutemen some 27 years later! Albeit, we didn’t drive 18.5 hours to Quebec
to meddle with history... we intended to make history.

Having arrived in Quebec City one half hour later than estimated 750 miles before in Roanoke, VA (if only we
hadn’t stopped for breakfast at that damned McDonald’s...), we were not only tired, but we were without lodging (and none
too happy about it). The provincial office of tourism had told us in December that there were no rooms left
to rent in the greater Quebec area; therefore, we set out to find a room in the lesser Quebec area
(the city itself), and did... a most inviting room... a most heinously inviting room, only one egregious block from party
central—rue Saint-Jean.

Having secured a room, unloaded and parked the car, assessed the city’s streets and services (including the bank—John exchanged much
(beaucoup) money, and I searched frantically for a Plus machine—yes, there was a Plus machine!), reenacted the famous Battle of
Quebec on the Plains of Abraham, bought beer, and cursed the rainy weather of Canada, we retired to our newly
rented room, where we took showers (thank God), drank a beer (Hutch gave it a C+... describing it as “vaguely
peachy”), and slept.

After a most refreshing nap, we donned our party/drinking toques and headed for rue Saint-Jean, which was one block away,
down a steep hill. Rue Saint-Jean was already pulsing with “constructive-partying” fury... we had to find a bar... and fast.
We did... The Cafe Breton—full of 40-year-old individuals who looked like they were experiencing a collective mid-life crisis. We drank
our Labatt’s Blue and got out of there in a hurry! We went on to explore the city at night.
Listening to some J.S. Bach piped over outdoor speakers, we viewed ice and snow sculptures, and walked up to the
Place du Palais (a...Gigantic castle made of snow), checked out the babes, and decided that our place was in the
local bars. Cool of us. We erred in our next choice, however, going into Le Bistreau, a disco and teeny-bopper
hangout. Not only was there a $5 cover charge, but we were forced to listen to butchered Deep Purple and
other classic rock (turned disco) blasted through hanging speakers while women danced in bands, refusing the company of men. Needless
to say, if you do want to dance, this is the place (despite the music); but, be sure to bring
friends of the opposite sex because this is not the place to pick up women.

Perhaps the most inviting bar/cafe on rue Saint-Jean was a crepe shop, Casse-Crepe Breton. The shop is small and an
appetizing aroma greets the passer-by. Hutch and I followed our noses and found ourselves staring through the windows. The booths
of the shop were filled by all types, but above all, the hired help caught our eyes most readily. Two
French-Canadian girls served the clientele. One girl had a truly Canadian face which grabbed our attention. Long hair graced her
slight shoulders and her eyes shone with innocence as she took our order. We obliged her gladly... acting as ambassadors
of the US, ordering apple and cherry crepes in addition to coffee. John and I relaxed in the warmth of
the shop and enjoyed the crepes, which were prepared in the center of the room. We stayed for a long
while—about 1.5 hours—during which time we attracted the company of not one, but three women from Boston who talked with
us for 45 minutes about the differences of northern and southern culture, the value of a liberal arts education, and,
most importantly, about the quality of each of the 18 bars lining Franklin Street in Chapel Hill, NC.

The night was still young, and we had many questions to answer. Although we had traversed so far under the
auspices of partying and beer tasting, we still clung to our liberal arts education... we were interested in the French
Canadian feeling toward tourism and the winter carnival, a question that may interest the sociologist/anthropologist here at Davidson. As the
crepe shop was closing (at 2 a.m.), John and I made our move. Distinguishing ourselves as freelance reporters from Charlotte,
NC who were writing a piece on the Quebec winter carnival, we asked the French girls, who spoke very little
English, about their feelings toward the winter carnival and tourism. Although we struggled to ask our questions, the interview was
conducted wholly in French. The girls did not enjoy the winter carnival as much as one would think. Despite the
increased revenue, employees have to work extra long hours. In addition, they are required by law to speak at least
a minimal amount of English during the carnival to placate non-French speaking tourists, which they find rather difficult. Disadvantages aside,
the girls (at least the one that waited on us) were quite amiable and very attractive.

Our first day in Quebec had drawn to a close. We returned to our warm room and crashed hard. Saturday
morning we awoke at 7:00 to blizzard conditions and five feet of fresh snow on the ground. I eagerly jumped
up out of bed, donned my bathing suit, and demanded that I be let loose to run and frolic in
the newly fallen snow... le bain de neige (snow bath)... Hutch ignored my excitement, mumbled “boots... schmoots” and something about
irretrievable insanity, and promptly returned to a comatose state (probably NC). With a maniacal laugh, I leapt through the fifth-floor
window into the snow, sinking to just about...

See CANADA, next page

Special for you, too... After 9:00 P.M. get a 12" pizza with two toppings for only $6 + tax. 20832
Catawba Ave. Cornelius, NC 892-9046 FREE ($6.00 Minimum Order): HOURS: MON-SUN 4:30-11:00 PM ALSO AT CONCORD SHOPPING PARKADE-HWY 29 FEATURING
THE SUPER ITALIAN BUFFET HOURS: 11:00 AM—10:00 PM

Special at Anytime... 12" pizza with two toppings and two drinks. Only $8 + tax. Staying up late? We've got
a...
