Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian _ Wednesday, March 28, 1990

Chris Otrok, Ian Ste 5000-meter run. David Murray kept close tabs on one another last Saturday in the Photo by
Ed Matthews

Baseball team is hot; pitcher Greg Wilcox on the roll

By GIGGY MAXWELL

As Wildcat diamond fans might remember, last season the Davidson baseball team journeyed to Florida for a series of Spring
Break games. It returned 0-6 for the week and 4-11 overall. It was an early death knell to a long
season as the Wildcats finished 12-27. This season the Wildcats fared much better, as they went 4-3 for the week,
including a three-game sweep over Yale and a stellar 3-2 victory over then third-ranked Miami of Florida. Miami came into
the contest 20-3, including a victory earlier in the week over Davidson, but Hurricane bats generated nothing but wind as
Greg Wilcox recorded 12 strikeouts and four hits en route to running his season record to 5-0.

This past week saw the ‘Cats lift their record to 15-13-1. On Monday, Davidson defeated a young Hartford Hawk ballclub
22-1. The Wildcats registered 6 home runs (commonly referred to as dingy-dongy-dingies by the bleacher bums) including two by centerfielder
Ron Krnacik. Derek Twombly got the victory and raised his season record to 2-3. Tuesday the same Hartford team returned
to witness Greg Wilcox’s record-breaking 27th career victory.

The Wildcats chalked up another win on Friday when they traveled to Catawba. The tone for the 7-5 victory was
set in the top of the first when Wildcat shortstop Rob Eenhoorn led off a game with a home run
for the third time this season. The ‘Cats never trailed in the contest and Dave Wilcox raised his season record
to 6-2.

Saturday Duke traveled down the interstate to try to end the Wildcats’ five-game winning streak. Unfortunately, Davidson seemed all too
willing to help the Blue Devils in their quest. The second inning spawned three Davidson errors, leading to Duke’s first
run of the afternoon. Derek Twombly pitched well the rest of the way, holding Duke to just seven hits, one
of which was a solo home run in the 4th. Unfortunately, Davidson’s bats were even less audible; they were the
victims of a three-hit, 2-0 defeat.

The ‘Cats began a new win streak the following afternoon when they defeated the Bruins of Brown 17-2 behind the
pitching of Greg Wilcox. Dingy-dongy support was provided by Peter Hughes (his fourth) and Mac Chapman (his second).

‘Cats break records, place, at track meet

By JAY CLUGSTON

The 1990 men’s and women’s track and field teams have begun their outdoor season, competing in the Seahawk Invitational at
UNC-Wilmington March 10, the multi-team meet at the University of Miami (Fla.) March 16 and the Davidson-Ridgeview Invitational March 24.

Sophomore Kathy Beach and freshman Heather Tarpley have had outstanding performances for the women’s team. Beach has continued the “run
through the record books” she began during the indoor season, and has set a new school record at each outdoor
meet. At UNC-Wilmington, Beach ran an 18:51.4 5,000 meters. She turned in a 4:53.3 1,500 meters at the University of
Miami, and last weekend at the Davidson-Ridgeview Invitational she shattered the outdoor 3,000 meter record by 15 seconds, running a
smooth 10:23.88. Her performances have not surprised coach Gary Andrew, who feels that Kathy has barely begun to tap her
potential.

Tarpley paced the women in points scored at the Davidson-Ridgeview Invitational, placing sixth in the discus with a throw of
106’7", fourth in the 100 meter hurdles (16.40) and second in the 400 meter hurdles (1:10.06). Other strong performances for
the women have come from freshman Jennifer Brown, who ran a 2:28.36 800 meters at UNC-W, and senior Susan Swift,
who captured seventh place in the shot put with an 37’5".

---Effort of 31’8.75". A big thank you is extended to the women who competed for the team at the Davidson-Ridgeview
Invitational. The men’s team was led by freshman javelin thrower Paul Levengood and a solid group of distance runners. Levengood
threw the javelin 155’3" to place fourth at last weekend’s home invitational. Notable performances by the distance crew included a
2:02.4 800 meters by Ben Wiley, a 9:08.8 3,000 meters by Ian Stewart, and a sensational 4:06.2 1,500 meters by
Peter Hurtado at UNC-W. Strong races were contributed by upperclassmen David Murray (15:55.7 5,000 meters) and Ted Richardson (4:12.9 1,500
meters). At the Davidson-Ridgeview Invitational, senior Jay Clugston and freshman Peter Hurtado placed first and second in the 1,500 meters
for the Wildcats, with times of 4:08.24 and 4:09.62, respectively. Senior Robbie “Sage” McKay cut seven seconds off his previous
personal best time with a 4:21.88 1,500 meters. The 5,000 meter corps, comprised of Richardson, Murray, Chris Otrok, and Stewart
all “got on the train”, sweeping third through sixth places with times of 15:53.03, 15:54.34, 15:59.24, and 16:02.85, respectively, and
Peter Hurtado closed the meet with a flourish, running a 53.2 split for the infamous “Slow Honky” quartet in the
4x400 meter relay. Both track and field squads return to action this weekend at the Battleground Relays at Mary Washington
College in Fredericksburg, Virginia.

Davidson will have faced N.C. State and Appalachian State and will be gearing up for an away contest Friday against
Radford, as well as a three-game homestand with the Citadel.

Calling all baseball and track fans! Refer to the back page calendar so you won't miss any games or meets.

Men’s Tennis Turns Away Ohio University
By ROBERT GRUBB

The men’s tennis team may have enjoyed its first spring break in more than 15 years a bit too much.
The Wildcats came back from break with a sluggish performance against Harvard’s B-squad, losing 5-2. “It was easily the worst
match so far this season,” said Coach Jeff Frank. “We just weren’t match tough. With the break, it had been
almost two weeks since we had played. The intensity and competitiveness just weren’t there.” According to Frank, the team had
a meeting after the match, in which the players discussed the lack of intensity and poor play of the team.
The ‘Cats must have said the right things during the meeting. The team came back to take a 5-4 decision
over Ohio University. Davidson had encountered the Bobcats at the Washington and Lee tournament earlier this fall. Ohio University won
the tournament, while the Wildcats finished third. The ‘Cats managed to win the head-to-head encounter, however, despite losing three three-set
matches. Gary Wheeler and Eli Gowan came up with the most important victory in their match at third doubles. They
decided the match for the ‘Cats by winning a third set tiebreaker. “The Ohio match was just a great performance
from top to bottom,” said Frank. Albie Varosky won his match at second singles after struggling in the first set.
John Beyer also won a three-set victory at fifth singles. Joey Manibo won in straight sets, to capture his second
match in a row. The early season emphasis on doubles play then paid off; the ‘Cats clinched the victory by
taking two of the three doubles matches. The match lasted nearly six hours and left the team drained for their
match against Colorado the next day. The ‘Cats lost the match to the Buffaloes 9-0. “I knew it would be
tough to come back and play against a team this good less than 12 hours after the Ohio match,” explained
Frank. The Wildcats’ record stood at 11-7 entering Tuesday’s encounter with Wake Forest. They return to action Saturday, visiting former
Southern Conference rival East Tennessee State and travel to UNC-Greensboro April 3.

The weight room in Baker is open! Call Sports Information for hours.
