— THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1990

Sports Football

Photo courtesy college relations
Players celebrate fight song after defeating Guilford

Cats Top Baptist In Season Finale
By BRUCE BALESTIER

Coach Dave Fagg’s Davidson Wildcats closed out their finest season in years Saturday with a 35-7 exhibition triumph at Baptist. The ‘Cats finished 5-3. The victory didn’t count in Davidson’s standings because Baptist is a club team. The Buccaneers (3-3) will make the transition to NCAA Division II status in football next year.

Senior quarterback Mark Wainwright led the Wildcats to victory; he passed to Dan Lamar for one touchdown and ran eight yards for another. As usual, he shared the passing duties with freshman Richard Howell; Howell threw a 28-yard TD pass to Del Turner. Senior running back Bryn Robinson closed out his brilliant Davidson career with a 55-yard touchdown run.

Volleyball

Volleyball Beaten In Big South Final
By BRUCE BALESTIER

With a three-game loss to Radford (4-15, 12-15, 9-15) in the finals of the Big South Conference Tournament, Davidson ended its spectacular season with a 31-6 record, 8-2 against conference opponents. Coach Rebecca Hawkins, while disappointed with the loss, praised her team and gave due credit to the Highlanders. “We played fairly well and showed a lot of poise in the finals,” said Hawkins, “but we just weren’t sharp enough to beat Radford who played brilliantly in the tournament.”

The ‘Cats were led through their awesome campaign by junior in Davidson’s brief volleyball tradition, and threatens only to improve, as no seniors graduate. Among the high points of the season:
* A team record 14-game winning streak
* A team and school record 31 wins
* Tournament wins at the Picadeli Classic, the College of Charleston Tournament, and the Davidson Tournament
* Coach Rebecca Hawkins was named Big South Conference Coach of the Year
* Hathaway and Plauche were named to four all-tournament teams and both were named all-Big South

Men's Tennis

Concluding a Faultless Preseason
By ROBERT GRUBB

The men’s tennis team finished a perfect fall season on Thursday with a 9-0 shutout of Queens College that improved the Wildcats’ dual match record to 6-0. Coach Jeff Frank was extremely impressed with the ease with which his team dispatched the Royals. “We won most of our matches fairly decisively,” he commented.

The Queens match continued a fall season trend. Once again led by the top three singles players, the ‘Cats started strong and never gave Queens a chance to get into the match. Albie Varoski won his match at number one in straight sets, 6-1, 6-1, and David Jespersen came back from match point in the second set to win his match. Kurtis Zabell, Dave Tonidandel, and two freshmen, Russell Briggs and Chris Parker, rounded out the Wildcat lineup. Briggs and Parker, in particular, drew Frank’s praise. Said Frank, “Russell and Chris played about the best of any of the freshmen in our round-robin challenge matches.”

In doubles, Zabell and his partner John Beyer continued to dominate at the number one slot. “Kurt and John have played solid, smart doubles all fall,” Frank said. “They’ve had a lot of confidence and poise on the court.”

Frank plans to finish up the fall season this week, and is already looking ahead to the spring season. “We need to finish up our round-robin challenges so that we will be able to put our strongest six players on the court at the beginning.of the spring,” said Frank. According to Frank, the numbers one, two, and three slots will be filled by Varoski, Jespersen, and Zabell, respectively. There are, however, another eight players who could conceivably fill the remaining three singles positions. Confided Frank, “We’ve worked harder this fall than in the past, and I hope it will result in increased match toughness in the spring.” The beginning of the spring season is traditionally the toughest part of the year for the Wildcats, and this year should be no exception. They play their larger opponents and their ACC foes in the first several matches. 

As well, coach Frank is looking especially toward the conference opponents, especially Campbell and Coastal Carolina. “They are the two top teams in the conference, and we haven’t played either of them before,” said Frank. “I’m looking forward to conference play because the rivalries and playing for tournament seeds will make the matches more exciting and fun for everyone.” The Davidson JV team defeated the N.C. State JV 7-0 over the weekend.

Photo courtesy Mike Von Bodungeon

Men's Basketball
Swedes Gun Down Cats
By BRUCE BALESTIER

Davidson was defeated 92-78 Saturday at Belk Arena by a Soder-Basket team that simply outshot them. Soder-Basket, a pro team from Sweden’s first division which is presently touring the U.S., shot 56.6% from the field and a remarkable 12-20 from three-point range. In fact, except for American point guard Carl Woodard, Soder-Basket seemed unable to do much of anything besides shoot the ball. Fortunately for them, they didn’t need to. The savvy Woodard played all 40 minutes and distributed the ball to the open man without fail. Long jumpers fell with regularity throughout the game for the Swedes.

Soder-Basket’s hot shooting wasted a fantastic effort from junior guard Paul Denmond. Denmond proved his mettle Saturday night, scoring on jump shots and on slashing drives to the basket. He scored 30 points before fouling out late in the game. Sophomore center Detlef Musch chipped in with 16 points. Coach Bob McKillop elected to utilize a three-guard lineup against Soder-Basket. Freshman Pat Holloway, junior Denmond, and senior Darry Strickland comprised the starting backcourt; Holloway and Denmond both saw time at the point. Sophomore J.D. Heuer and Musch received the starting assignments at forward and center, respectively.

Notably, McKillop chose not to play guards Sterling Freeman and Turner Gilmore or forward Paul Drobnitch, all of whom contributed last year. The tremendous perimeter shooting of the Soder-Basket team continued a trend begun by last year’s squad: teams often shoot the ball incredibly well against the ‘Cats. Improved perimeter defense is a must if the Wildcats are to gain a measure of success this season.

NOTES: A poll of the Big South’s coaches and sports information directors picked Davidson to finish 5th. The Wildcats’ regular season begins over Thanksgiving at the Lapchick Tournament at St. John’s, where they meet Central Connecticut in the first round. The Davidson home game is November 27 against William and Mary.

Support Your Wildcats!