Wednesday, February 28, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

In good health

By MARK D. PUCKETT

A salad is mostly green due to lettuce—a worthless vegetable except for that it is a good substitute for crunchy edible loose-leaf paper. Piled on the lettuce is a tangy mucous-like glop of flavoring called “dressing,” which literally “dresses” the salad to make it look “dressy.” Types of dressing include ranch, which is made from dirt, hay, and cow patties; French—a liquid orange derivative of a male parfum named “Pierre”; and, finally, blue cheese, named for curdling the milk of a melancholy, hence “blue,” goat.

Normally, a salad can precede a meal. Sometimes, a salad can come after a meal. At times, however, a salad can become a meal. Most often this “salad that becomes a meal” is a non-nutritious unfilling plate of nothing—a nobody meal. In mathematical terms, the “salad that becomes a meal” is the same to food as the null set is to geometry or upper-level calculus. Salads, in short, should complement a meal, and nothing else. The following are scientific reasons that add to today’s thesis:

1) Iceberg lettuce, according to Ricky Ricardo, “has some ’splainin to do.”
2) Bacon bits are actually ground-up Japanese beetles.
3) Croutons, literally “hardened melba toast of the occult,” originated in the southern Chinese rain forests and taste like salty Captain Crunch.

Take a look at what Dr. Ruskin Valetudinarian, author of Croutons—Why the Funny Name? and There's a Salad Dressing in my Fridge, says about salads: “People who try to make a meal of a salad—girls especially—are eating for attention. A girl wants other girls to see that she is on a diet or eating light. This display is all very unfortunate since most lettuce, iceberg especially, has little or no nutritional value—it is mere roughage, a simple filler.”

Dr. Valetudinarian adds, “It’s not a substantial meal. Oh sure, some of the greener lettuce has good vitamins and maybe a little iron, and, yes, other vegetables that accompany a salad, such as cucumbers, radishes, carrots, etc., are good sources of fiber, but the fact is that a salad does not a meal make. Your body needs a variety of foods.”

SUGGESTIONS ABOUT SALADS
1) Eat a salad with a meal, not as a meal.
2) If you must eat a salad for lunch or supper, add a small portion of beans, meat (turkey, chicken, ham even), or pasta. Make it substantial.
3) 86 the dressing (in the army “86” means “get rid of”). If you can’t “86” the dressing, then at least cut down or substitute it with low-fat cottage cheese or something.
4) The greener the lettuce, the more nutritional value.
5) Eat more broccoli, cauliflower, carrots, tomatoes, cantaloupe (if it’s available), beans, etc.
6) Easy on the cheese.
7) Stay away from fruit in heavy juices.
8) Easy on the artificial bacon bits and croutons.
9) Be aware of chicken salad, ham salad, tuna salad—remember, mayonnaise can kill you on a hot day.

Invective of the Week: See last week’s paper.

Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. ©1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

CRAMMING FOR EXAMS?

IT’S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA

Call Us! 896-8007 Shops on the Green

Hours:
Lunch Break from 11am to 4pm

Medium 2-topping Pizza ONLY $6.50 tax included
Present this coupon to receive ONE 12" 2-topping Pizza for $6.00 tax included
Present this coupon to receive $1 OFF any Pan or Original pizza.

4:30pm-1am Sun.-Thurs, 4:30pm-2am Fri. & Sat.

$1 OFF

Slide on over to the baseball games
Next home games will be Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. against UNCC, and Monday and Tuesday at 3 p.m. against Western Carolina

Offer good through 3/31/90
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00.