The Davidsonian
Thursday, January 18, 1990

Davidson’s Paul Denmond sinks the ball (and someone's face) in last week's game against Furman, but the ‘Cats lost a
close 57-60.
Photo by Ted Richardson

Davidson trips at end, falls to Central Florida

By CARTER PAYNE and JOHN BURNS

The streak continues... the Wildcats lost their eighth straight game Monday night to Central Florida in a heartbreaker: 53-51.

After shooting 42 percent in the first half, the Cats led 27-26. Central Florida controlled the inside game in the
half, as evidenced by Ken Leeks’ (no. 44) two thunderous first-half dunks.

Paul Denmond once again played well for the Wildcats, leading the team with 17 points, scoring 10 of those in
the second half and two three-pointers. But Denmond was the only player in double figures. Darry Strickland was the next
leading scorer with eight points, six in the second half.

With 15 minutes left in the second half, Davidson started what would be an 11-3 run that ended with 11
minutes left and a 41-32 Wildcat lead. From this point on, Central Florida remained in the game with blazing three-point
shooting, eventually cutting the deficit to one with one minute left. That’s when the excitement really started.

Davidson brought the ball down court and wasted the clock until 38 seconds showed when Denmond’s errant pass was intercepted
by a Central Florida player. CFU converted on a six-foot baseline jumper with 20 seconds left to go up 52-51.

The Wildcats threw the ball in and got it to Denmond, who took a three-pointer that bounded off the front
of the rim into the waiting hands of a Central Florida player. Davidson had to foul three times in order
to get into the bonus. The process took the clock all the way down to nine seconds.

Central Florida’s shooter choked under the shock of hearing the Davidson crowd for the first time all night and missed
the shot. The ball bounced towards three Davidson players, who missed the ball. Central Florida’s point guard came up with
the rebound and was fouled with three seconds left in the game.

The player hit the first shot. Jay Schmitt grabbed the errant second shot and let loose a three-quarter court heave
that missed entirely. Final score: Central Florida 53, Davidson 51.

Davidson next moves into a fairly hard stretch of games as they travel to UNC-Wilmington, have Winthrop at home, and
then go to face an excellent Appalachian State team in Boone on the 22nd. Before returning home to play Wofford,
the ‘Cats face South Carolina in Columbia on the 25th.

How I lived a little over break (gasp!)

By MARK D. PUCKETT

1) Walking into the house on that first day of Christmas break, I entered the kitchen—bags in hand—and looked around
until my eyes located and zoomed in on a plate of brownies, caramel oozing from the center of each one.
After throwing down my bags and rushing to the table, I ravenously inhaled two. I chose a third, caressed it,
lifted it to my mouth, halted my action because something was amiss, ran to the microwave, popped it in for
15 seconds, ran to the fridge, poured myself a glass of cold milk, ran back to the microwave, removed the
brownie, and ate it standing there at the kitchen sink in chewy rapture, gulping a swallow of milk after every
bite...

2) I drank a beer with my brother because I told him that I didn’t drink and he punched me
in the arm and said, “Aw, come on, have a beer with your brother.”

3) I then ate three pieces of caramel cake made by my grandmother. It is a cardinal sin to refuse
caramel cake made by a grandmother.

4) I ate some meat because my family said I need the protein since they thought I looked a little
pale.

But, amid all of this holiday frivolity, I never overate and I still exercised regularly—and you can do the same.
Everybody needs to break down every once in a while and indulge, just as long as it doesn’t become a
regular thing. Got it?

Also, in case you haven't noticed, I’ve adopted a new “nicer” approach to you because if it weren’t for you
awake readers I wouldn’t be here. Besides, I showed some of my columns to Mom and Dad and they said
that I should “tone it down, son.”

Therefore, to all the over-indulgent porcine sows and cows that I insulted before, I take it all back. And to
all the walking beer guts that I had no right to affront, I apologize. It is a new year and
I have a new attitude.
