Thursday, February 22, 1990  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sweet Honey in the Rock, a world-renowned a cappella jazz/blues ensemble, will perform at Davidson this Saturday at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The group's songs are often social commentaries and have been shared with a world audience since 1973. Sweet Honey in the Rock has performed at Carnegie Hall, a U.N. conference, and in Africa and Europe. Student tickets are $3. Faculty members pay $5.

Black History Month

Here are some facts you may not know  
By MICHELLE SERRANO

1. Yesterday, Wednesday, February 21, was the anniversary of the 1965 assassination of civil rights activist Malcolm X.  
2. Egypt is in Northern Africa. (This is of course very basic, but some people have a problem admitting this because they don’t want to associate Egypt with Africa).  
3. The Egyptian, Imhotep, was called the “real father of medicine” because he described the circulation of blood 4,000 years before Europe discovered this bodily function.  
4. The Angolan leader, Queen Ann Nzinga, resisted the colonization of her country by Portugal for 40 years during the mid-1600s.  
5. Olduvai Gorge, in Kenya, East Africa, is the site of the oldest human-like fossils to have been found by archeologists.

These are just a few African-American History facts that have been left out; so if in doubt--check it out. Be on the lookout for more knowledge throughout this month. The above facts were taken from The Black Collegian, Jan/Feb. 1990.

Glory: Finally, a tribute to black Civil War soldiers  
By RUSS MATTHEWS

STARS: Matthew Broderick, Denzel Washington, Cary Elwes, Morgan Freeman  
DIRECTOR: Edward Zwick  
RATING: *** 1/2

Glory is the true story of the 54th Massachusetts Infantry, the first black regiment raised by the Union to fight in the Civil War. The potential behind such a story makes you wonder why no one ever thought to make it into a movie before now. We should be thankful, however, that someone finally has and that they have done an excellent job. The result is a lavishly produced spectacle in the finest Hollywood tradition, tempered by the sensitivity, reverence, and attention to detail absolutely demanded by the landmark subject matter.

With a story so rich in potential, the filmmakers had a variety of themes to choose from. The men of the 54th dealt with their own mutual differences, racial prejudice in the North as well as the South, and the need to prove that blacks could fight as well and as bravely as whites. To their credit, the filmmakers do not choose a theme to harp on for the entire movie. Instead, they present a finely detailed portrayal of the men and their lives that allows the audience to draw its own conclusions.

A major complaint about this film has been that while it is a story of blacks, the focus is placed mainly on a white character. While this may have been a legitimate complaint with such films as Cry Freedom and Mississippi Burning, it is not so with Glory. Glory is as much about men at war as it is about black history. The white character that serves to advance much of the story is Col. Robert Gould Shaw, the commanding officer of the 54th. The leader is often the most compelling character in any story, especially when dealing with the military, where a leader’s decisions can mean life or death for hundreds of others. Also, letters written by Shaw at the time provided the best, most accurate record of the daily life and progress of the 54th.

Col. Shaw is played by Matthew Broderick. He is a good choice, infinitely more satisfying than some square-jawed mannequin from central casting. Broderick’s less-than-macho features remind the audience that he is, after all, just like them. The difference...is that Shaw is weighed down by the awesome responsibilities of command and is desperately trying to avoid failing in them. Like his character, Broderick also seems to be struggling with his responsibilities, but unfortunately does not succeed quite as well. Most of the time he looks uncomfortable in his first grown-up role. His dialogue is often labored and marred by a bad attempt at a Boston accent which he thankfully loses during key scenes. The audience will tend to overlook these flaws, however, due partly to Broderick’s earnest effort, but mostly so that they can enjoy the performances of Morgan Freeman and Denzel Washington. Freeman plays a former grave digger whose quiet strength and understanding elevate him to the vitally important position of sergeant major. Washington is Tripp, a runaway slave who seethes with barely controlled fury and lives only for his chance to fight. This excellent portrayal has been recognized with a well-deserved Oscar nomination.

At times some of the characters and situations seem cliched. Like many other war movies, there is the commander who is ruthlessly preparing his men for the horrors of combat, the second in command who questions his methods (Elwes), and the tough-as-nails drill instructor. Also, as in many Civil War movies, we find runaway slaves who were whipped regularly and white southerners who think that’s the way it should be. These things seem cliched to us, but today’s audience must remember that in 1863 it was all very real. In fact, one of the film's greatest strengths is the realism with which it portrays the era. Costumes, props, and sets are all meticulously detailed. This is especially evident during a scene in which the 54th parades through the streets of Boston while thousands of spectators cheer. Not only technically impressive, Zwick makes a powerful statement simply by showing the reactions of black men, women, and children in the crowd. As the soldiers pass by, we are struck with the full force of what it means for the others to see black men in uniform. In this and other ways, Zwick spans the 127-year gap and enables the modern audience to identify with people who are, in some respects, alien to them.

Surprisingly, Zwick maintains this bond with the audience even during the battle scenes. The sheer insanity of Civil War tactics to our modern sensibilities actually helps to heighten the suspense. Neat rows of men line up scant hundreds of feet from one another and trade murderous volleys with single-shot muskets before charging into desperate hand-to-hand combat. The effect is as exciting, intense, and terrifying as anything in Platoon or Full Metal Jacket.

The final battle scene is perhaps Glory’s greatest achievement. The 54th leads a near-suicidal assault on Ft. Wagner in Charleston, South Carolina. Zwick devotes just the right amount of time anticipating the battle, then throws us into the fray. The night battle is dazzling and accompanied by a stirring original score (performed by the Boys Choir of Harlem) that should have received an Oscar nomination. Most significant of all, is that by this point we are no longer conscious of the fact that the men of the 54th are black. We know only that they suffer, and so we suffer with them. Glory is a fitting tribute to the achievement, courage, and sacrifice of the men of the 54th Massachusetts Infantry. In years to come, it will serve to inspire generations of people, black and white alike.

RATING SYSTEM
**** Legendary perfection. Descended directly to Hollywood from above.
*** Good movie. One you definitely want to see on the big screen.
** Fair. Wait for video, if you can.
* Poor. No redeeming value.
0 So bad it’s good. Feel sorry for people involved who are trying to earn a living.