**Corrected OCR Text:**

t rat eee 8 1990 | Ca ae p U S Living

Photo by Staff
Dr. K. smiles in his office amid stacks of books and papers and a stapler, plus a clock radio, trophies, a pencil sharpener, and some photos.

Kuzma Knows Film
By JOE MARIS

Impossibly miniaturized by shelves of Nabokov and corners of soccer trophies, Zoran Kuzmanovich leaned back in his associate professor of English chair and smiled: “I can’t remember a time when I wasn’t interested in films and television or visual media of any kind,” said Kuzmanovich, eyeing a reporter’s audio recorder with an innate sense of suspicion.

Studying in The Center for 20th Century Studies at the University of Wisconsin and later at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Kuzmanovich either registered or walked through as many film classes as possible. Receiving his doctorate at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Kuzmanovich began teaching in American colleges and universities. At Davidson College, he uses films with a lot to do with my family pointing out how the Communists in Yugoslavia were visually constructing a reality.

Kuzmanovich teaches at Davidson College as one of the college’s many colorful personalities that hail from all corners of the geographical and ideological globe. Born in Yugoslavia in the mid-1950s, Kuzmanovich entered into a world of political oppression ripened by the increasing strength of the Communist Party during the Cold War. His family moved sporadically throughout Europe as a result of several “disagreements” between the Yugoslav government and Kuzmanovich’s father concerning “all kinds of little and big things.”

After a childhood of constant moving, Kuzmanovich moved to the United States to study in American universities. Kuzmanovich began serious film study while earning his bachelor and master’s degree at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. He also teaches classes in general film study, Literature and the Visual Arts, and East European film study.

Asked if he has ever considered pursuing filmmaking as a career, Kuzmanovich remembered his first film project dismissively: “I made a one-and-a-half-minute movie. It was a strange combination of images from Hell’s Angels to the great epic movies about the Bible. It was part of a competition to make a logically interesting, politically challenging art cinema film in under two minutes. Fortunately, it is not available."

Believing that “American audiences are becoming more educated about how to watch difficult films,” Kuzmanovich has compiled a list of his favorite films divided into several of his self-created genres. His interest in the first category...

Continued on Page 13

Presently in his third year at Davidson College, he teaches...

Student Speaks Of Study Abroad Experience In Mexico
By CURT BICKERS

Hilary Coman is an example of a multi-faceted Davidson student. A history major with an emphasis on international studies, Hilary is a hall counselor, a member of the international committee, a member of the newspaper staff, a Spanish AT, and a community Big Sister. Where in the world, then, did this very involved person find the time to study abroad last semester?

“I think studying abroad is one of the best experiences I’ve had at Davidson,” Coman said. Coman went to Guadalajara, Mexico, on the Davidson-in-Mexico program led by Dr. Hernandez and Dr. Pena. “Actually, it was not just Guadalajara. We did a lot of traveling around in our studies.”

Coman revealed that some of her best memories came from traveling to places like Melakue, an undeveloped coastal area where the group went for a retreat. The group also traveled to Mexico City, the Yucatan Peninsula, and Guanajuato, to name a few.few. “Travelling was some of the best times. You were learning new things and learning about the other people in the group as well. It was a very informal atmosphere. I got to know the professors ten times better than if I had just had classes with them at Davidson.” The students paired up and lived with families. “The interactions I had with my host family and other Mexicans not only helped my Spanish, but also gave me a better perspective on Mexico,” noted Coman.

One of the most striking aspects of the Mexican culture, according to Coman, is the extent to which the United States has influenced Mexico. This observation prompted Coman to incorporate international studies into her major. Coman also cherished experiencing first-hand a culture she had studied. When asked why other people should go abroad, and specifically to Mexico, Coman said: “People should go abroad to have something to compare our culture to, and to add a unique dimension to their Davidson experience. Mexico adds a third-world country contrast to America’s wealthy society. The benefits (of going abroad) far outweigh any difficulties with the language.”

Coman definitely thought interactions with the people were key to the abroad experience: “In every city we went to, a bunch of us would hit every market and bargain with the people. We would get back to the bus and compare who got the best bargains. I loved that.” A few suggestions Coman had for the program were that more girls should participate in the future. “There were only two girls on the trip.” Also, Coman thought that more direct interaction could be helpful. “Our classes were separated from the Mexican school system. We kind of stuck together in a group too, and that is not the best way to become absorbed into a foreign country.” Overall, though, Coman thought the family she stayed with, the courses she took, the other Davidson students on the program, and the professors all combined to make the program a success. “I sincerely recommend the Davidson-in-Mexico program to anyone with an interest in Spanish or Latin America," said Coman. "My semester abroad has definitely been one of the most valuable experiences of my life.”

Marlo Cobb | The Incredible Ease of Well-Being

Blowing The Whistle On Gatorade And Granola Bars

Gatorade, 10-K, Performance drinks: These drinks are high-sodium as a rule because they “replenish” the body salt lost during exercise. However, unless you have just run a marathon, this sodium doesn’t need to be replaced right away, and any nutrients you lose through exercise will be replaced by your next meal. The best post-exercise drink is plain water (but Gatorade commercials won’t tell you this, because water’s free). Liquid is what needs to be replaced right away after exercise, and cold water is the liquid which is most quickly absorbed by the body. All those additives in so-called sports drinks make them more slowly absorbed by the body than water, and they have extra calories as well.

Granola bars are not what they seem, either. Despite the hype, they’re really not very good for you. In terms of calories, sugar, and fat content, granola bars are basically cookies. For example, comparing a 0.8 oz. Nature Valley Granola Bar (Roasted Almond) to 0.8 oz. of Oreo cookies and Nilla Wafers, the granola bar comes out marginally ahead, but there is not a very big difference here:

Fiber (g)
Granola bar: 120 16 <1 5
Oreo cookies: 112 16 1 4.8
Nilla Wafers: 104 16.8 1 3.2

%USRDA of:
Protein Iron Thiamine Riboflavin
Granola bar: 40 40 40 20 24
Oreos: 1.6 2.32 0 1.6 5.6
Nilla Wafers: 1.6 3.2 3.2