THE DAVIDSONIAN "OPINIONS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

Welcome to the Small Time
DAVID SCOTT '92

This article is biased. All bearing opposing opinions shall be eviscerated before the sword of my vengeful apathy. Dare ye
encroach upon my petty pulpit? I just wanted to say that I’m jubilant, joyous in fact to the core of
each and every organ and/or locus of spiritual dynamism in my body and, in short, darn pleased with the progress
of Davidson football since my freshman year at this fine institution. (I know all the other teams are kicking butt
as well. Consider your praises sung, but I'd have to write a book to do you justice.)

In the fall of 1987, I moved from Atlanta, where all teams lose, to Davidson where all teams lost. Conditioned
to failure, I listlessly intuited some morbid connection between these populational and intellectual centers of the New South and mind-boggling
mediocrity in sporting pursuits. Cursed with an illogical addiction to the athletic pursuits of others, I rued my fate.

Now a moment please. I feel I must break for an explicatory interlude. To those sports anti-fans out there whose
version of hell involves a 12-pack and the Falcons on the tube, I willingly confess to the sin of impertinence.
My subject matter doesn’t matter. Sports, the passionate pursuit of perspirant men and women for, usually, some sort of ball,
score poorly on the meaning meter. To this, I respond; I don’t matter, you don’t matter, the world rates an
ink smudge on the jean pocket of oblivion, and we may as well blow the sucker up and tidy up
the void. In short, if you stand on “meaning” you tread on trembling ground.

On to football. When I was a freshman, we stank. Southern Conference teams laughed, spat, and broke our spirit and
spent Saturday evening picking fur out of their cleats. That’s no fun. Furthermore, I got the feeling that many players
were here for 1) Division I football and 2) Division I football. Davidson created a sort of football welfare system
for players who couldn’t play Division I anywhere else. (Earnest apologies to ex-players now playing elsewhere and to those who
remained at Davidson but could have left to break wedges at Oklahoma. Thanks for staying, but I’ve got a point
to make.) Basically, we had no business playing Division I, and finally, the trustees admitted it. Last Saturday’s game demonstrates
how much times have changed. Davidson played a wonderful game leaving spectators hoarse and Emory and Henry wondering how this
one got away. Fumbled punts, big points, long bombs, and a last-minute drive engineered by a freshman sensation. Excuse the
sentence fragment, but that’s how football is supposed to be played even if the offensive line doesn’t influence the orbit
of passing satellites. What a change from freshman year when the likes of Appalachian State and Marshall used Wildcats to
keep the weeds down. Davidson belongs in Division III and has for twenty years. Now football can be an institutional
hobby rather than an embarrassment, but certainly not something not to get excited about.

Finally, I'd like to compare Davidson’s situation to that of the University of Alabama who last year made a coaching
change and has, like Davidson, experienced much recent trauma with their football program. On Saturday, Alabama lost to Georgia on
a late field goal. They’re (0-3). Last year they fired Bill Curry, a good man and a good coach, after
committing the crime of going 10-3 with an overachieving team and bringing Alabama to the Sugar Bowl for the first
time in some ten years. But he didn’t play for a certain ex-coach, and he lost to Auburn, so they
canned him. Alabama comes out looking like a home for wayward rednecks possessing between them perhaps the brains of a
flattened pigskin, and they’re still losing. Davidson also has a new coach (he of the last name everyone wonders whether
they should make fun of) and a new attitude. Leave the big time to the big boys. We’ll have big
fun down in our little corner of the Piedmont and damn the rest!

David Scott is a recent senior turned junior history major and co-editor of the opinions section. He comes from Atlanta,
Georgia.

Sara Carlson
Women at Davidson Not Safe From Assaults

I’m not sure if I’ve given some Davidson men too much credit or not enough. A number of them have
felt compelled to treat everything I write as the Feminist Gospel, capable of finding and destroying the (perceived) tenuous male
hold on superiority. I am not referring to Mr. Crystal’s clever response to my dangerous message of live and let
live, but to the man who was so threatened he felt it necessary to phone me and inform my answering
machine of his intent upon finding me alone one night walking home from the library. To this man, I have
one response: I do not walk anywhere alone on this campus. My friends and I travel in pairs or use
the escort service. As one of the founders of Davidson’s Rape Awareness Committee, I have read enough literature and had
enough friendsCry as they told me in sobs of an attack to know better than to put myself in such
an easily avoidable risky situation. Women here are obviously not safe from assaults, verbal or physical. Last year, Lucia Kendall,
another writer for The Davidsonian, received phone calls similar to my own. These charming messages are not reserved exclusively for
women who take public stands on issues, though. I know two first-year students who were telephoned, with no apparent provocation,
and informed of equally revolting and terrifying potential occurrences. Davidson is an idealized, not ideal, place. Women are consistently relegated
to object status by an extremely small, but psychologically powerful, minority of Davidson men. These “men’s men” are not the
voice of the school, but they make the most frightening noise. Luckily, the resources here for dealing with such an
attack are extensive. Davidson security, Davidson town police, and the Dean of Students Office are all extremely supportive. If a
person receives any harassment, sexual or violent, these agencies are quick to respond and know the proper protocol to most
efficiently help the victim. Virtually every student, professor, or administrator I spoke with following my attack was outraged that such
a base display of violent tendencies could occur at an institution of higher learning as prestigious as our own. Most
were ready to go out and throttle the man who called. Most were prepared to lend me their rooms or
homes to escape into if the desire arose. All were supportive, and I thank each of them for their concern,
but I pray that such an overwhelming display of concern will never be necessary again.

BOB COLLINS IN HEY Tosh Crystal

Hey Bob, Where's My Car?

I wonder sometimes about many a pressing issue. Things like: Why am I here? What is the meaning of life?
What is Bob Collins’s purpose in life? Why is he here? Does he have to be? Actually, it’s really a
good thing he is here, otherwise, who would keep us from committing such unpardonable sins as... parking in an empty
space!!!! Does this sound familiar? You come back from some tiring journey, and you spy an empty space in the
lot across from the Pi Kappa Alpha house. You rush to get in, and you head off to bed, blissfully
unaware that you really parked in a visitor’s space, and, while you are sleeping, sometime in the dark and dirty
hours of the morn, just before the birds begin their joyous song of autumn, a Cushman Cop and his evil
henchman, the Towing Dude, are greedily devouring your car and later regurgitating it in... Satellite parking!!! Or even worse; The
Texaco station down the street. Where do these creatures of the night get their powers, and why are they so
much more ruthless this year than last? I cornered the Towing Dude at the Texaco station down the street. (His
powers are at an ebb in the daytime, you see, so I wasn’t as afraid as usual to go near
him.) He said that the sinister force behind these heartless towings is... Bob Collins. The Towing Dude told a lot
of really neat stuff. He told me how Bob Collins is the man behind it all, and how he has
allegedly authorized the towers to do unspeakable things to our cars. I talked to one girl whose car door was
damaged a good deal by an overzealous cop who didn’t really know how to use a slim-jim, but went for
it anyway. (Getting to tow a car is pretty exciting stuff, you see.) She wasn’t even parked illegally. The Director
of Facilities Planning and the Physical Plant (I wonder who that is?) had designated the spot for a new street
lamp, and rather than doing something really crazy like calling her and asking her to move her car, they decided
the best thing to do would be to tow it. Is damaging our cars at all really necessary? I personally
saw these guys tow a car despite the fact that they couldn’t get the steering column unlocked. I’m sure that
did wonders for the car. A friend of mine saw them lift up the end of a car on the
towing hitch and shake it until the steering unlocked. Oh, and I’m sure that the owner’s manual of the car
says, “If you ever can’t get the steering to unlock, get some help from your local friendly Towing Dude, or
Bob Collins, if he’s around, lift it up and shake vigorously until the steering unlocks.” Another thing that bugs me
is that the school maps denote lots for visitors, faculty and staff, students, and even a free lot. When a
student parks in a faculty space, he gets towed, no matter what the hour. That is Bob’s law. When a
faculty member parks in a student space, ‘Ol Bobbo lets them have the space. Now, maybe I’m being silly, but
if we get towed for parking in their spaces, why don’t they get towed for parking in ours? They nail
the faculty and staff just like everyone else. If they take our spots, then tow them. That is only fair.

See Page 7
