ON THE DAVIDSONIAN - NEWS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1990

By CARLA DAVIS

The public is invited to a presentation of Blue Paper Shoes, a one-person performance inspired by the music and lyrics
of John Lennon. It will be presented in the 900 Room on Thursday, November 15, at 8 p.m.

The performer, Rafael Lopez-Barrantes, who lives in Chapel Hill, describes the production as a theater “moment” inspired by Lennon, rather
than a portrait of Lennon’s life. Barrantes will be the only person on stage during the performance. This one-hour play
focuses on his portrayal of Lennon’s ghost and employs various theatre mediums such as drama, sound, and choreographed dance and
gestures. As the ghost cooks dinner, becomes a speaker, and transforms himself into different personalities, he creates a metaphorical suggestion
of Lennon’s life.

Blue Paper Shoes has been performed in theaters in Chicago, Chapel Hill, and France. S. Baun of Chicago Performance Arts
Magazine said, “Barrantes sculpted intonations and theatrical energy gave Lennon’s lyrics an added weight and depth...”

The text for the show was written by Lopez-Barrantes’ wife, Ellen Hemphill, who admired Lennon’s work. She said she “wanted
to create this piece 10 years after his death; not only in homage to this man, but also to remind
us of how his music and poetry influenced a generation of people throughout the world.”

Barrantes has been a member at the National Superior School of the Roy Hart Theatre since 1974, is co-director of
the theater company, Archipelago, in France and director of Archipelago U.S.A. He is a permanent teacher of the Art of
Marionettes (Voice and Theatre) in France. His most recent theatrical plays include Exit the King by Ionesco, Kaspar by P.
Handke, Escurial by Ghelderode, and the musical Big Girls Don't Cry.

Blue Paper Shoes is directed and choreographed by Heide Tegeder, an ex-dancer with the Pina Bausch Company-Wuppertal Dance Theatre in
Germany. She is also the director of the dance-theater department of the Conservatory-Hanover. For more information, contact the College Union
at -2140.

Marrow Continued from Page 1

to the local hospital for some more “routine” tests. By this time, I was on the verge of panicking. I
remember sitting fearfully in the hospital chapel fervently praying that all would be all right.

The doctor eventually appeared at the end of the hall and motioned for me to come into my father’s chaplain’s
office. He sat down in front of me, looked me directly in the eyes, and said calmly, but firmly, those
words I’ll likely never forget, “David, you have a form of leukemia.” I remember that at that point I made
a feeble attempt to make a joke, commenting that, “Gee, I guess that I will miss the basketball game tonight.”
Unfortunately, my fake smile could not hide the absolute absence of hope that I felt at that moment.

The next four weeks that December were not exactly my ideal way of spending Christmas vacation. I underwent a rather
grueling series of tests and chemotherapy. My body was literally bombed with medication after medication. Up until this point in
my life, medicines had names like Sudafed and Robitussin, but now they had more ominous-sounding names like L-asparaginase, Cytoxin, methotrexate,
and prednisone.

At the end of this four-week barrage, I had achieved a disease-free state called remission. Over the next five months,
I entered the hospital about every three weeks to receive continuous drips of chemotherapy for three or four days at
a time. This medication was designed to knock the leukemia into a permanent remission. It also caused much nausea, baldness,
and a forty-five-pound weight gain. At the end of this five-month period, I hardly recognized my own reflection in the
mirror.

Thankfully, at the end of this seven months, from May until December, I took mercaptopurine pills every day, as well
as having a weekly blood test and an injection of methotrexate. I began a rigorous workout/diet regimen and took a
summer job in the mountains at a restaurant. My summer turned out to be great: I lost the excess thirty-five
pounds, I got back into decent physical condition through playing tennis and basketball regularly, girls re-entered my social life and
things seemed to be restored to normal.

At the end of August, I looked ahead to my freshman year at Davidson College with high expectations. My fall
semester was likely very similar to any other freshman’s first dose of college life. I struggled through the delightful “reviews”
in my classes; I reveled in the variety of ways to spend a weekend “creatively” and at the same time--I
felt I had become a part of the campus community. Once again, it seemed that as if all was right
with the world.

bone marrow transplant. I remember thinking that this sounded like a drastic and radical procedure, and in many ways, it
certainly was. To have a bone marrow transplant, one must have a donor, that genetically, is practically identical in

Statistics that were offered were less-than-thrilling--only one out of four people have a genetic “match” within their family. Due to
the currently limited bone marrow registry, the odds of finding a “match” in the general population is a one-in-twenty-thousand proposition.
Not exactly the type of odds on which you’d place a huge wager.

Later that week, tests proved that, miraculously, God had provided me a genetically identical match in the form of my
beloved, younger sister, Lee. I knew that the road ahead was paved with extremely daunting physical and emotional obstacles, but
I felt assured that this was one battle that David Lindsay was going to win.

I remember that several weeks later, I was sitting in the medical

Kania Hired As New College Controller

Courtesy of College Relations

Davidson has announced the appointment of Edward A. Kania, C.P.A., as controller of the college. He succeeds Robert Davidson, who
retires on January 1 after 22 years of service.

Kania, 28, comes to Davidson from a previous position as controller of the Charlotte architectural firm of Clark Tribble Harris
& Li. Prior to that, he worked as an auditor for Coopers & Lybrand in Charlotte and Philadelphia.

As Davidson’s controller, Kania will supervise accounting of the college’s $35-million budget. He and six associates in the office are
responsible for billing students, paying the college’s bills, helping to establish the college budget and tracking expenses against that budget.
Kania reports to RobertSutton, Vice-President, took a fresh look at Davidson’s financial accounting system, strengthening and modernizing procedures where appropriate.
He said he is looking forward to using his skills at an educational institution. “Davidson in particular has a good
reputation, and there’s a sense of academic excellence here,” Kania said. “In that type of setting, you work with people
who are intelligent and dedicated to what they’re doing.”

A native of Philadelphia, Kania graduated from St. Joseph’s University in 1983 with a B.S. in accounting. He and his
wife, Donna, have a five-year-old daughter, Kristina. The family lives in Matthews. Kania serves as a volunteer fireman and emergency
medical technician with the Hemby Bridge Volunteer Fire Department and as a lector at St. John Neumann Catholic Church. Kania
said that he is trying to encourage individuals to express their views, but also making clear the fact that...

Continued from Page 2

Last Sunday night, at 8 p.m., was the first anniversary of the start of the offensive, during which the FMLN
tried to take control of San Salvador, the capital of El Salvador, and the National Army began bombing and strafing
the poorer sections of the city in opposition to the FMLN. Casolo then began the testimony of her experiences working
with the Salvadoran people. Her voice was strong with conviction and feeling as she recounted stories of her work with
the Brethren Volunteer Services, an organization committed to peace, justice, and human rights. Her work included introducing American volunteers and
visitors to the country and her people, as well as other services to both volunteers and the Salvadorans.

Well, the month of December rolled around. It was about ten days before exams were to begin. Sunday evening, I
helped lead my freshman hall basketball team to our first I.M.A.C. victory. The next day I went to Charlotte for
my monthly bone marrow aspiration. After the test, I returned to school and went about my daily routine totally oblivious
to what lay in store for me. The next day, I felt as if once again the rug had been
pulled out from under me. The doctor called with the grim news that the cancer had reappeared in my blood.
I remember wondering, as I headed to my car in the Belk parking lot that afternoon, when would be the
next time that I would be at school. As it would turn out, the next time that I would set
foot on campus would be months later. My doctor said that at this point, to continue to treat the disease
with chemotherapy was not the best option. Instead, he recommended that we pursue having a bone marrow transplant. I remember
a twelve-year-old friend of mine, Jason, who was in need of a bone marrow donation. I'll never forget my encouraging
assurances to him that, “Don’t worry, I’m sure that they’ll find you a match.” The look of hope in his
eyes is one that I'll likely never forget.

When I returned at the end of April from my grueling transplant experience, I began my monthly check-ups. A mere
two weeks after my return, I entered the office and asked how Jason was doing in finding a match. I
felt my heart drop when the oncology nurse looked at me and gently said, “I’m sorry, but Jason died early
this morning.” It truly can be said in his case, “...only the good die young...”

The purpose of our registry drive is to make it possible for all the “Jasons” in the world to have
the hope for a cure, and so that more people can receive the wonderful gift that I’ve received. Stay tuned...

Casolo spoke of the night she was arrested for allegedly hiding arms for the FMLN. She also related her experiences
during her interrogation and her later imprisonment. At this point, after singing a song in Spanish, Casolo noticed a group
of people in the back of the room holding up El Salvador’s national flag. A dialogue between Casolo and the
individuals from such countries as Cuba, El Salvador, and Guatemala began. These individuals expressed their anger with Casolo, claiming that
she distorted many facts about the situation in El Salvador and created a biased view which promoted the “rich” as
the cause of the whole conflict. The individuals also expressed despair over events involving their family members, and they questioned
Casolo’s justification for her depiction of the situation, which they felt was inaccurate.

With great tension and animosity developing in the room, Casolo quickly responded by acknowledging the rights of these individuals to
express their views, but also making clear that her testimony was based on her own experiences in El Salvador. As
the tensions ebbed slightly, Casolo concluded the discussion by pointing out that if the common goal of all sides is
human rights, then an argument over semantics and unwarranted accusations is fruitless.

Casolo’s talk provoked many feelings in most members of the audience. Some were very receptive to Casolo and felt that
she was a charismatic and powerful person. Religion professor David Kaylor pointed out that what Casolo gave was “a very
personal recounting of her own experiences and events that happened to her. What she did not give was a dispassionate,
intellectual analysis of the situation in El Salvador. Her convictions stem from her deep association with the people.” Many others
were deeply impressed by the standing ovation that she received at the end of her talk. Many left the 900
Room inspired and uplifted by her dedication to the people. But others were very angry by what they felt to
be her misrepresentation of the situation in El Salvador. Cristina López-Ibáñez, a student at Davidson who hails from Guatemala, felt
Casolo was able to evoke emotions and therefore “manipulate” a vast majority of Davidson students who are naive about the
situation in El Salvador into taking her side as the truth. López-Ibáñez felt that Casolo brought only one view of
the situation to Davidson. “That’s not education; that’s indoctrination. Education is bringing both sides into view. Our point is this
one: we (the “rich” in Latin America) want equal rights for everybody so we can all live better lives. What
people don’t understand, or refuse to understand, is that it’s easier to be a guerrilla than to work. It’s also
a lot easier to blame the rich for everything,” she said.
