Wednesday, February 14, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

More letters

“The BSC is anything but racist”

Dear Editors,

I am writing in response to Marshall Smith's comments that appeared in last week’s Davidsonian concerning racism. I would like
to start by saying that, like Marshall Smith, I have felt uncomfortable a few times because I felt like I
was being classified as an “oppressor” because I am a white male, a traditional power holder. But I stress that
these few situations were isolated incidents in one-on-one discussions. Sure it happens. White people can be prejudged just as black
people can be prejudged. But these instances were not supported by some “militant” group.

What really disturbs me is Mr. Smith’s description of the BSC as racist. I have only attended Davidson for one
semester, but from what I’ve seen of the BSC so far, it is anything but racist. The BSC has held
forums and discussions concerning racism and prejudice. These forums were eye-openers and really made you aware that the end to
racial prejudice is more than just passing laws. People’s attitudes must change. People are people. But that doesn’t mean there
aren’t cultural or ethnic differences.

I applaud the BSC’s effort to establish a “black” fraternity. When this idea first came up, there was an uproar
about “separate but equal” and reverse discrimination. But when you really think about it, cultural roots and heritage should be
celebrated by a common people. The end to racism and prejudice must come through understanding and accepting differences between people,
and celebrating those differences, not through the elimination of those differences. Ignorance divides the races. For prejudice to be abolished,
differences between people must not only be understood and accepted, but celebrated. What good is unity if individual and group
characteristics are wiped out? We must seek unity in diversity. What is more beautiful, a garden of only red roses,
or a garden filled with beautiful flowers of every shape, scent, and color?

In conclusion, the actions of the BSC, whether they are organizing panel discussions, pulling for a black fraternity, or setting
up a celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday, are simply not racist. Everything that I have seen the
BSC do is geared to education, understanding, and the celebration of African American history and culture. I fail to see
why Mr. Smith thinks that constitutes racism.

Ben Wiley, ‘93

Media Board ensures quality of publications

Dear Editors,

Two weeks ago you wrote an editorial supporting the return to elections as the means of selecting editors for student
publications and other forms of media run by students (i.e. WALT). As appointed editors of the 1989-90 yearbook, we strongly
disagree with your editorial. We feel that the system of electing editors results in publications of a quality far below
what can be achieved by appointed editors.

We base much of our opinion on the publications of the past few years, especially those of the last elected
editors of Quips and Cranks, The Davidsonian, and The Wildcat Handbook. The last elected editors for Quips and Cranks were
those for the 1987-88 book. That book was essentially put together by one person over a two-week period in the
summer. She was handed a box of pictures and asked to put together a book. The fact that she wasn’t
one of the elected editors says a lot.

Recent letters in The Davidsonian have criticized some of the material in the paper, but let’s face it, at least
we have one to read. That's more than can be said about the sporadic publication of the past two years
during which time the paper was run by elected editors. Finally, consider The Wildcat Handbook. The Class of 1991 should
remember the last elected editors of this publication. Their handbook came out in October, two months after it was needed.
Even though it had gone through two printings, it was of generally poor quality. No one whohas seen the last
two Handbooks could deny that not only have they come out on time, but the quality has greatly improved. If
the performance of previous editors was not enough to convince you, consider just how fair student elections are for these
positions. Most student publications come out once or twice a year; students have little concrete information on which to base
their decisions, unlike the election of SGA or Union officers. Students don’t know the qualifications or experience of the applicants.
The elections thus tend to become popularity contests, and popularity contests don’t often produce good quality publications.

We have said all this assuming that students care about these publications. While we're sure that many do, we have

See SELECTIONS, page 12

NBA, NBB and NBC need names now

Dear Editors,

Students moved in more than a year ago. Since then, the Baker Sports Complex has been completed and the baseball
team has gained new locker rooms and a concession stand. Compared with these latest constructions, Buildings A, B, and C
are no longer NEW. When will the Senior Apartments have names? Must Davidson wait until three benefactors give enough money
to merit a plaque on the apartment they

I am tired of explaining which of the three buildings I live in to other Davidson students, friends, family, and
inexperienced pizza deliverers. “Well, building A is closest to the baseball field, B is the southernmost one, and C is
sort of across from the cemetery.” NBA, NBB, and NBC need names. Soon. Got any ideas?

Ed Matthews
NBC 304

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, News Editor
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
Bruce Balestier, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Davidson, let’s not forget South Africa

The letter from Monroe Gilmour, printed on the opposite page, is a timely and commendable statement which addresses the complacency
of Davidson’s trustees in regards to the divestment of funds from companies doing business with The Republic of South Africa.
The argument that divestment would inhibit rather than provoke positive change, supported by various individuals as well as governments, is
unresponsive to the problems at hand. As a consequence, apartheid has persisted longer than it should have. In the wait
for the South African government to accommodate the native black majority, civilian deaths, detentions, infant deaths due to malnutrition, and
general suffering have abounded. Western nations as a whole have expressed extreme excitement for the recent political, social, and economic
turmoil in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, which in effect is challenging the merits of communism. On the other
hand, South Africa has remained on the back burner for the majority of consciences. Could it be that human rights
are more important for particular groups of people than others? Although the recent release of ANC activist Nelson Mandela marks
a pivotal turn in Afrikaaner politics, it is but the least which could be done to bring about change and
equal opportunity. Because of this, for those who did impose sanctions, the time to lift them is certainly not now.
More evidence of the government's sincerity to eliminate apartheid is needed. The next months will be revealing ones as the
world observes South Africa. What can Davidson do in the meantime? As we host a conference on German reunification, let
us consider doing the same for South Africa. One step towards that goal is evident in the upcoming visit of
South African Niko Smith of Koinonia, early next week. However, perhaps a series of forums can also be organized to
allow discussion of this very important issue.
