12 THE DAVIDSONIAN. CAMPUS LIVING THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

Joe Binns | Music Review

New Potato Caboose & Awareness Art Ensemble

The following show review got nuked right on out of last week's paper due to lack of space. Its message--Don’t
Go See the Caboose!--is an important one. If I can reach just one reader this week, just one, and spare
him the painfully bad show (not to mention the seven wasted bucks), it will make this ex post facto review
worthwhile. Oh God, I hope I’m not too late.

New Potato Caboose
1313 in Charlotte, 9/13/90.

I bagged doing work for this show and five minutes into it I almost wished I hadn’t. The Caboose, who
rocked at the Pterodactyl last year just didn’t have it (Pete Jackson called it when he labeled them New Potato
Impostors). It was probably because they just didn’t have their first string drummer and one of their guitarists. John, the
percussionist in absentia, was recovering from a hernia operation and Sam, “the new guy” to Caboose fans, was in Scotland,
evidently having discovered some way of simplifying sound board wiring and was presenting a paper on it. They were sorely
missed.

The Caboose was forced out of a lot of their good material and into some really random stuff, including four
covers. “Stir It Up” I’m certain had Bob M. rolling in his grave—and “Fire on the Mountain” was a little
sad, but Country Joe and the Fish and Crosby, Stills and Nash would have been proud. (Side note: I hope
no one there actually did love the one they were with because the crowd was really skanky all the way
around.) In short, the thirteenth was a bad night for Potato heads. If you get the opportunity to see them
any time soon make sure the whole band is going to be there.

Awareness Art Ensemble
Pterodactyl. Date not recallable (around 9/19/90.)

A sparkling show by natty dreads. Awareness was complete and sans politics. In D.C. in ‘88, Amy Goode (Angel atop
the Christmas tree) and I almost got clobbered after an onstage discourse about ANC rubbed some inebriated xenophobes the wrong
way. A near fatal bum rush ensued but somehow we escaped unscathed (I’m sure you care). There were no low
points this time. It was a three-hour show in which their originals were fresh and their covers were accurate. “Roller
Skates” was the crowd favorite. The only bad thing I have to add was the band's appearance. It looks as
if they are getting a little burnt out and sick of the club scene. Although the tunes were vibrant, the
group didn’t seem to be having fun. This is all just speculation of course. Thanks for reading.

Smitty’s Boot O’The Week: Oakland, Almeda County Stadium. 10/9/76. set 2.

Sherrill Reflects on World War II
Continued from Page 11

know what I saw? I saw this German tank run right through the middle of that tent, right over them
guys. It was awful.” But Kemp also has some pleasant memories from the front. “I used to drive a lot
for Omar Bradley. I picked him up at the airport once. They were all going to that place where they
signed the peace treaties for World War I. I got back and they tell me Patton’s driver wrecked and can
I go pick him up. ‘Sure,’ I say.

“So I got Patton and we start off. There were two motorcycles in front of us at first. Patton, you
know what he did, he calls up to me and says, ‘Corporal, will this thing run?’ ‘Sure,’ I say. ‘Then
blow the horn and tell them sons of b-----s to pull over.’ So I did, and he says, ‘Let’s go.’

“I threw it in fifth, and I tell you, I got him there fast. Well, and this’ll give you a
chuckle, it was snowing pretty good, and I was driving one of them English cars, you know, all backwards with
the steering wheel on the wrong side and the doors open the opposite way. Well, I pulled in, and Patton,
he jumps out before I stopped, and that door opened up behind him and come up and knocked him flat
on his ass."

"He slid along there a ways, got up, brushed the snow off them two pistols he carried and started off.
I think I’m the only one ever knocked Patton down and got away with it.”

I’ll take that bet. After the war Kemp returned home to Mooresville Mills and met his wife, Geneva. A year
or so later he left the mill and started K. K. Sherrill’s Texaco and ran it for twenty-eight years. The
building still stands. To get there “you go up 77 to 150, take a right, then go down a hill
and up a hill and it’s on the left. It’s called ‘Miller’s Car-"

"I think I’m the only one ever knocked Patton down and got away with it."

most about Davidson, and he said, “I just like being around the kids and the professors. They’ve all learned me
a lot. Every one of those professors knows me. I enjoy myself, give people a smile and speak with them
if they want. It’s what keeps me going.”

When I asked if he saw anything at Davidson that bothered him or that he might want changed, Kemp pondered
awhile and shook his head. “Well I do remember one time it snowed real good and my scooter was stuck
at the bottom of the hill. Some boys helped me up the hill and then they wouldn’t let me go.
They spun me around for a while there in a circle. They had their fun.”

“Did that bother you?”

Marlo Cobb
The Incredible Ease of Well-Being

Yes, Men Can Drink More Than Women

Now, that all of this Alcohol Policy stuff is going down, let’s talk about alcohol! BAL: Although it is generally
thought of as a stimulant because it makes people more aggressive, talkative, and uninhibited, alcohol is actually a depressant which
acts as an anesthetic to thenervous system. Blood Alcohol Level (BAL) is the amount of alcohol in the bloodstream. The
amount a person drinks (see the chart on Blood Alcohol Content) affects BAL, as well as the type of alcohol
consumed and what it is mixed with. Whisky and other hard liquors are absorbed more quickly into the bloodstream than
beer, and carbonated mixers also increase absorption rate. Eating before drinking will delay an increase in BAL. Milk products before
a beerfest will help to coat the lining of the stomach and prevent alcohol from being absorbed into the bloodstream
as fast. If you’re feeling “under the weather,” you'll probably feel the effects of alcohol faster because although a small
percentage of alcohol is exhaled or excreted, the remainder must be oxidized by the liver and this process is slowed
by disease.

Why men can drink women under the table: Biologically speaking, this cliché holds true. A certain digestive enzyme, “alcohol dehydrogenase,”
breaks down some alcohol before it ever reaches the bloodstream and can affect the central nervous system. Women have significantly
less of this enzyme than men do. For this reason, and also the fact that women on the average tend
to weigh less than men, women absorb as much as 30% more alcohol into the bloodstream than men. All in
all, for every two drinks a man has, a woman can have one and still feel the same effects. Men
have a distinct metabolic advantage (or disadvantage?) in this respect.

Nutritional aspects: Basically, zip. Empty calories. Pilsner, Amber, Lager, and Bock beers all have about the same caloric content. For
a Lager beer (3.8% alcohol and 12 oz of beer), a “light” beer has around 105 - 110 calories, and
a regular beer has about 160. The difference between the two is less calories than an apple. Darker beers have
slightly more calories than lighter ones, and this pertains to liquors as well. Most “light” beers, interestingly enough, have just
as many if not more calories than their “dry” counterparts, because of the brewing process for “dry” beer. As far
as liquor goes, an 80 proof (40% alcohol by volume) bottle of distilled liquor -- scotch, gin, vodka, rye, brandy,
etc. -- has around 67 calories per fluid ounce. Liquor that is 151 proof (75.5% alcohol) has 126 calories per
oz., and Everclear has around 166 calories per oz. (To give you some idea of how much “one ounce” is,
there are about two ounces of liquor in a frozen drink made with Bacardi mixers.) Neither beer nor liquor has
fat in it; beer has carbohydrates, but none of the nutrients that bread has. The reason people gain weight through
drinking beer is because they are taking in lots of extra calories on a regular basis, and they are usually
drinking late at night when there is no time to immediately work it off.

Princeton Student ‘pet’ now. My son rents the building.” Like every other job he has held (except maybe farming) Kemp
loved running the station. “I did grease jobs, changed oil and worked on cars. Towards the end we sold minnows
and fishing tackle after they opened Lake Norman.” Since he left the station Kemp has been at Davidson, and he
still loves to work. “I lock doors, check for blown lights... they’ve really lit this place up, makes it safer...
I unlock dorm rooms and professor’s offices if people lock their keys inside. I like to help people out.” I
asked Kemp what he likes “Oh no, I enjoyed them.” So much for negativism. If you see Kemp say hi.
Sometimes you'll find him at the Union taking a smoke or driving around in his plain brown Cushman. (He had
them paint over the “Davidson Security” logo “because I ain’t no policeman.”) He always has time to help out a
student. “People got to remember, if it weren’t for the students, we wouldn’t have any jobs.” He has no plans
to quit his part-time work. As he says, “Oh boy, I just can’t sit around and do nothin’.” His wife
also works at Davidson as a cook for Rusk House. “She loves to cook.” We’re lucky to have them.

Fishes on experience necessary. Excellent pay! Work at home — all toll free.

Tracks Amelia Earhart Continued from Page 11 thick, snake-like tangles of tropical underbrush greet visitors who make the long journey
there. After days of combing the island last year, the TIGHAR team concluded that Earhart’s Electra was not on land
and decided to look through the village debris for anything that would have come off an airplane. They found the
bookcase on a junk pile, said Matthews. Only after close examination and with help from the Smithsonian Institute did the
team realize the significance of their find. Matthews hopes to be on the next TIGHAR expedition to Nikumaroro, possibly next
fall, when the group will carry deep water sensing instruments to search for Earhart’s plane in the depths around the
atoll. The project will cost around $250,000, Matthews estimates. “It’s not like we’re going after a Spanish treasure; if we
find anything we’re not gonna sell it. There’re film rights and television rights that would defray the costs, but basically
what we're doing is not for profit,” Matthews said, “It’s really a labor of love.” Matthews took a month off
from class last year to volunteer his time on the expedition. Eventually he hopes to be a filmmaker, so when
TIGHAR asked him to film the trip he jumped at the opportunity. In 1987, he made a video of a
TIGHAR project about the missing French aircraft “Midnight Ghost.” But the Earhart expedition was different. For him it was a
chance to solve one of the more well-known mysteries of the 20th century. “I’ve got so much invested in this
now that I’d hate to go to my doorstep one morning and pick up a paper and have it say
‘Earhart mystery solved.’ I want to be there when it happens.”
