THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

Davidson Fraternity Members Will Go to Bat for Habitat
By TINA SMITH

Members of the Davidson College chapter of Kappa Sigma fraternity will literally go to bat for the Davidson Habitat for
Humanity on Saturday, September 29. The fraternity members will play their second annual 100-inning softball game to raise awareness and
funds for Habitat. The game, which is expected to last 15 hours, begins at 7 a.m. at Moor Park in
Mooresville.

Habitat is a non-profit organization that provides affordable housing to worthy, low-income families. Qualified families physically aid in the building
of their home with the help of local volunteers. Sophomore John Rowe, assistant service coordinator for Kappa Sigma, said that
“Davidson has many needy residents who can benefit from the work of Habitat for Humanity. Profits from the game will
help buy land, supplies, and tools for the local chapter.”

The game is part of Kappa Sigma’s support of community activities. The fraternity concentrates on local projects to help its
members understand the impact of giving in a particular community. Kappa Sigma also coordinates the Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD)
Run and helps to bring donations to Jubilee House, a residential Christian organization in Charlotte.

“We emphasize service as a building tool for brotherhood,” said Kappa Sigma service coordinator Doug Long. “It’s a good way
for us to get to know the freshmen and do something fun which requires almost total house involvement,” related Rowe.
“The softball game itself is a lot of laughs. It’s not serious competition and both spectators and players have a
great time.”

Davidson to Hold International Festival
Continued from Page 1

student coordinator from India: The event is free and will include special presentations of dances, games, and African storytelling. Soviet
student Yuri Peshko plans to show postcards from his hometown of Krasnoyarsk in Siberia and French student Jerome Lauck will
show videos of France. West German student Annette Gutberlet said she hopes to answer questions about German reunification, which occurs
on October 3. “I think a lot of people will ask me about the political situation,” she said. “I will
try to be up to date.”

The fare at the international fair includes international food, which will be served from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at
the Vail Commons. The dining service will prepare an international luncheon menu of vegetable eggrolls with mustard and duck sauce,
stir-fry vegetables and shrimp, a spicy rice dish called Indian massala pullau, Philadelphia pepper steak, baklava, cream puffs, and hot
Chinese tea. Entrees cost $1.50; other items are between 60 and 90 cents each. Call the College Union at 2140
for more information on the fair.

Professor Looks At Narcoterrorism
Continued from Page 2

believes the money is misdirected. “Everything goes to the military,” she said. “But that won’t eliminate the problem at the
source. No one addresses the socioeconomic condition of the farmers. To be effective, aid must be aimed at a combination
of law enforcement and crop replacement.”

Sendero Luminoso is unique among world terrorist organizations. Founded in 1970 by a Peruvian university philosophy professor, Abimael Guzman, the
movement has never been linked to outside governments or organizations. For more than a decade it has carried out a
violent, clandestine rebellion in Peru unlike any seen thus far in the western hemisphere. Guzman still leads the group in
its drive to overthrow the existing order, purge South America of its Western influences, and restore...the land to some sort
of Communist rule by its native inhabitants. Guzman’s followers include a large number of intellectuals, as well as Peru’s long-neglected
Indian and mestizo population. Tarazona-Sevillano explained, “Their movement is a fusion of modern communism with Peruvian heritage. They use terrorism
and sabotage to avenge the wrongs visited upon their ancestors, and view their movement as a cell that will spread
to bring true justice to the world.” In the middle 1980s, Sendero Luminoso, which is totally self-supporting, made an alliance
with the cocaine syndicate to increase their income for expanding their movement. Though these two groups have different objectives and
ideologies, they share a mutual enemy—the Peruvian government. Their impact is an expensive burden for a new democratic government already
besieged by complex problems. More than 16,000 Peruvians have died in the 10-year struggle between the government and Sendero Luminoso.
And the infusion of cocaine money is making it an even more deadly war. Tarazona-Sevillano estimates that the organization now
comprises about 20,000 armed fighters and hundreds of thousands of sympathizers. In addition to her new book, Tarazona-Sevillano has written
articles for publications such as The Christian Science Monitor and the Atlanta Constitution. In the summer of 1989, she was
a visiting scholar at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. At Davidson, she teaches seminars on the drug wars, international
eco-politics and law, and terrorism.

Davidson Combines Athletics and Academics
Continued from Page 1

bly, the grants will come to men’s sports (besides basketball) when the money is available. Now that those grants belong
to Davidson’s women’s sports, the impact has been immediate. It has been a difficult road recently for Davidson athletics, one
filled with the obstacles of our small size and lack of scholarships. But a few well-placed scholarships (to draw quality
student-athletes to Davidson) have combined with Davidson’s ever-present work ethic to produce an inordinate amount of success. And if we
only continue on that road, it seems likely that even greater success lies ahead.

Literary Magazine to Change Approach
Continued from Page 2

at Davidson. “We're looking for anything that might be reproduced in a magazine, whether it be photos, paintings, drawings, or
sculptures which could be photographed. I want to use Hobart Park to recognize all good work Davidson produces, whether we
can publish it or not—we will definitely sponsor an exhibition of the entries we receive.” All three editors have ideas
to improve the quality of Davidson’s literary magazine and broaden its scope to include more of the college community. Will
they be able to realize them? Perhaps. However, they realize they will have some difficulties. Says Clay, “I know we
have a lot of work to do. But I think it will be worth it. After all, at a liberal
arts college, the quality of the student magazine should be a reflection of the quality of the students.” (Anyone wishing
to submit writing or artwork to Hobart Park may turn their work in at the Union information desk.)

Contact, "THE FASTEST START TO A FAST-PACED CAREER:
Fast-paced careers go to those who respond to challenge. Your ace in the hole is Air Force ROTC. The word
is opportunity. The rewards are extraordinary. The time is now. Whether you're about to begin college, or have already begun,
it’s time to learn the leadership skills you need to succeed. You may also be eligible for two- through four-year
scholarships that can pay full college tuition, fees, and books, plus $100 tax-free each month. AIR FORCE ROTC.
