THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING

FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990

Campus Calendar

Friday, April 27
2:00 P.M. - 5:00 P.M.: Celebration of Women. To celebrate women at Davidson, there will be a program focusing on
special talents of women students and faculty—dance, singing, guitar, poetry, reading, and more. Union Patio (Rain Location - 900 Room).

3:00 P.M.: Baseball. Davidson versus UNC-Charlotte.

7:30 & 10:00 P.M.: Pop Films. Parenthood. 900 Room.

Saturday, April 28
9:00 A.M. - 3:00 P.M.: Conference on “Compassionate Assistance” at Queens College sponsored by OASIS (Organization Against Social Injustice and
Suffering). The purpose of the conference is to coordinate and stimulate efforts to aid the poor and homeless in and
about Charlotte. Anyone interested may attend. If rides are needed, call the Chaplain’s Office (-2451).

6:00 P.M.: Baseball. Davidson versus UNC-Charlotte at Charlotte.

8:00 P.M.: Cinema Classic. The Graduate. 900 Room.

Sunday, April 29
4:00 P.M.: Davidson Wind Ensemble will present an outdoor concert and ice cream social. Cunningham Building Quad.

8:15 P.M.: Robert Austell will present his senior composition recital. Hodson Hall.

9:00 P.M.: Philanthropic Literary Society. We meet every Sunday night for a fun program on a literary or general theme.
Come join us! Phi Hall.

Monday, April 30
9:00 P.M.: Spring Concert. Vocal and instrumental concert featuring Krista Richter, Robert Austell, and friends. 900 Room. Sponsored by IVCF.

Tuesday, May 1
8:30 A.M. - 11:30 A.M.: Coffeehouse. This will be the final one.

12:00 P.M.: East European Visitors. Davidson will host a group of five political scientists from Poland who are in the
process of establishing an independent foreign affairs institute in Warsaw. Interested faculty, staff, and students can attend the lunch by
placing their names on the sign-up sheet at the Union Desk at noon.

3:00 P.M.: Baseball. Davidson versus Belmont Abbey.

Coming Events
“Northern Ireland: Problems and Prospects.” Reverend Margaret Johnston and Father Oliver Crilly will discuss the current state of affairs in
Northern Ireland and the peace settlement of the situation. Tuesday, May 15, at 7:30 p.m. Location - International House, 322
Hawthorne Lane, Charlotte, NC.

Beer Continued from Page 8
* Pilsner Urquell (Czechoslovakia): “Caramel taste” — Skaar and Bjorn, “Very good butter-caramel smell” — Skaar. “This is a jubilee
beer” — Lise. “This has too much taste and too much flavor” — Holland. “I would tone up the environment.
The clientele would appreciate it” — Holland.

* Aass: Nutty taste. Delicious smell, sweet. “The kind of beer I feel I’m used to—but a little sweeter” —
Jonny and Lise.

* Orval: Very cloudy. “Smells like lavender. It is too exotic for me. Let's have a beer after this” —
Bjorn. “I wouldn’t choose this. It has nothing to do with beer.” — Lise. “Mysterious, smoky, East- locally at Natural
Resources. For a wider selection of world brews, try La’Mart Deli and Wines on Sharon Amity in Charlotte or Belk
of South Park.

* Warm Busch from a keg: Bland, boring, flat. Given any alternative at a Patterson Court party, I would never
choose it. “Only a loser would like this beer” — Houck. “This is the beer they serve in hell” —
Hutch. Unqualified “F.”

Holland J. Skaar L. Skaar B. B C C B D D A B D- C D D A B+
A- B+ (A A B+ B B+ C D D D D- C

* The best beers in the world (ranked in no order): Dos Equis, Sol (Mexico); Hofbrau orA A Hofbrau Dark
A B Reserve, Spaten, B Maisel’s F Cc (Germany); Sun Cc D Valley Winter Beer, New Am- -Bjorn. * Nordic
Light: Slight almond taste. “A Carlsberg light bitter. Not Grolsh the kind of beer I Urquel want to drink 3
Nordic bottles of after Aass Pils. dinner. I think Elephant about volume Aass B- when I drink this Orval beer”
Jonny. Grolsh Dark “Similar aftertaste to root beer, but I'll drink it.” * Aass Pilsner: A surprisingly full taste given
the light color. “Soft smell, strong taste” —Jonny. “A very nice, lazy, physical taste. It would go along with a
nice massage. It is like slow motion surfboarding--coming over the wave, you hang in there” —Holland. “I like this one.
It must be Norwegian” —Lise. * Carlsberg Elephant Malt Liquor: Clear color. “The best smell of all the beers. I
expect more of its taste” —Jonny. “I know this one. Gill’s mother-in-law would like it” —Lise. “After this you would
want to walk home rather than drive” —Jonny. “If I were sitting at a cafe in Oslo, I would want
to drink this on a very fine summer day. If the Corner Pub or the Par 4 served it, it
would be a hit. This is an exotic lady wearing far too much perfume. It would go well with a
spicy lamb” —Holland. “I couldn't drink much of this” —Jonny. The Orval reminded the group of Retsina, a Greek wine,
which has nothing to do with wine, but is a wonderful wine to drink while in Greece. * Grolsh Dark:
Weak smell and a rich, dark color. “Doesn't taste like anything in particular. I would like a glass of this”
—Lise. “Smokey taste. It is like a blind date that wasn’t unpleasant but that you forget about immediately. A good
beer if you're convalescent” —Holland. “This is a beer you can say nothing about” —Jonny. “It isn’t bad, but it
doesn’t taste particularly good either” —Bjorn. These beers, with the exception of Orval, can all be purchased in Amsterdam (America);
Ramrod Ale, Bass Ale, Royal Oak (England); Calgary (Canada); Fischer d’ Alsace Amber (France); Sapporo Black (Japan) Aass Pilsner, Elephant
Malt Liquor (Scandinavia). * World’s worst excuses for beer: Tecate, Bohemia (Mexico); Lemon and Lager, Mickey's Big Mouth Malt Liquor,
Liberty Ale, warm Busch from a keg (America); Labatt’s Velvet Cream Porter (Canada); Watney’s Red Barrel, Whitbread Ale (England); Fischer
d’ Alsace Bitter (France). These beers are the world’s only exceptions to Mangum’s Law, “Never refuse a free beer.” This
column is written out of a concern that in a quest for quantities of beer, students too often overlook the
quality.

Sorry, kids. I don’t have any KD's guy. We've reached the revolutionary cultural facilities for the Court. "Good HEALTHY" people
pass out footpie. Richardson —, “Chelten of the Aawag lost most of Avs hare a fer P-Court clothes and Mom
of Bee Fi Ais vicinity. T4OLIE 76 ToweD Ais HAgL- in the trl Morning WALK oP “SHAME. the wacky Core)
Fame TURES: Z DIE He carr? charac he who only wise he SS doo revoir - dd be a Aig
~ ko ‘ny ae oe uid wads, ety ~ CAngzs Tad 7 ay, 4 k be] n+ FIREDRIE || Hr
ienctm caescres| |__ OUST
