6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990

D.A. Thompson | Rude Notes & Random Scribblings

"What is Love?" He Asked Half-Heartedly And With A World-Weary Expression

H.L. Mencken once wrote that love is simply the delusion that one woman differs from another. Johnny Rotten called it
fifty-two seconds of squishing noises. Hemingway said it was a burnt match skating in a urinal. Sadly enough, none of
the women I tend to date ever seem to look at romance so, shall I say, romantically. After all my
efforts towards eros, I still haven’t discovered exactly what the essence of love may be, except that, as Phil Degnan
says, you can’t put it in a blender.

I have found, however, a few categorical characteristics by which one can identify certain types of “love” here at Davidson.
I guess the first fancy to discuss would be what is popularly known as Import Love or “Sharing Sex With
People We Like to Think Aren’t Quite as Clever as We”. I hate to sound sexist, but this is usually
a pretty one-sided affair. I mean we don’t really see too many Davidson women trying desperately to hit on muscle-bound,
tank-top clad men from other, lesser, and cheesier schools (like Yale); but we certainly do have an awful lot of
L.L. Bean-shod Romeos concentrating their energies on a few hours in bed with a big-haired, orange-faced beauty in a sorority
tube top and skin-tight Jordache jeans.

This type of adoration is pretty easy to spot. Just watch for any drunk Davidson man doing the lambada with
a Tammy Faye look-alike, and you'll have a prime example of import love. How does such an affair end? Usually
by bringing the mystery woman back to the dorm, fornicating furiously until she passes out, chundering on her jacket, and
finally stealing forty bucks* from her Le Sportsac purse before getting the hell outta dodge (*Many thanks to R.C. ’89
for the ‘stealing’ line). The perpetrator is protected from his little lady friend ever finding out who he really is
by having told her his name was “Xavier”, and having hooked with her in someone else’s room on the hall.
Such decadence is sad, but true, folks.

When both parties are currently enrolled at Davidson, the relations between the sexes become just a tad more complex. I
guess the clearest categories would have to be “Hook Love”, “Geek Love”, “Psycho Love”, and “Would You Two Please Get
a Life Love”.

Hook Love is perhaps the predominant style of romance at Davidson. It usually begins with a real winner of a
line like “you wanna climb the water tower?”, and ends a few weeks later with the same line being directed
at your partner’s roommate. Remember this warning next time you get yourself into one of those get-together-at-parties, go-to-the-occasional-date-function, but-never-express-any-sort-of-emotion-or-intentions-of-commitment relationships:
Hook Love is pretty simple, but can be extremely dangerous, and might even lead to one of the other three
categories if you’re not careful.

Now, Geek Love is a special thing. It’s kinda heartwarming, in its own pathetic way. How can you spot Geek
Love, you ask? It’s not as...Obvious as you might think. A couple working together in the library does not a
dork romance make. Just because a pair may attend every one of the Artist’s Series events, that doesn’t mean that
true Geek Love exists between them. The distinctive characteristics of Geek Love make it that much harder to detect. We
are talking here about the kind of ciphers who never leave their rooms except to go get the latest copy
of Physics World, which they quote from lovingly while they study or play computer games. The only way you know
these people personally is if you happened to have one or two on your freshman hall, and then you only
ran into them in the bathroom.

Psycho Love is the most fun to watch from a distance, but is absolute hell if you’re involved. Sure signs
include incurable nymphomania, hysterical fits of jealousy and rage, and even ritualistic voodoo burnings of your partner in effigy. The
best way to handle these people is to say, “Bill, calm down. Sally would never ditch you. Why, she told
me in bed the other day, hey wait, isn’t that her leaving with some freshman?” and then giggle as he
starts to smash windows and beat up his friends.

The last and most distinctly annoying type of love is the Would You Two Please Get a Life Love. You
know what I’m talking about here: the couple that plans their schedule so that they’ll be in at least two
classes together and will be able to spend every moment of their free time in each other’s company. They stand
in the halls of Chambers, cooing and cuddling between the two classes they don’t have together; they sit in the
union together for lunch because they can’t bear to go to their own eating houses for fear of being apart
for more than forty-five minutes; and they don’t go to parties much because they might just experience the unendurable hell
of losing each other for a few moments in the crowd. Then one of the pair graduates and gets some
meaningless job in Charlotte while waiting for the other to finish school so they can get married. I have my
own theory about what happens to these two. He develops a penchant for blonde secretaries who can only type 20
words a minute, and she strives after her lost youth by swilling liquor and “helping” the gardener in the afternoons.

In short, I urge you to be wary of these relationships. Your caution could save your sanity. Do what I
do and call the 900 date lines instead, you really do “meet better quality people, and it’s cheaper than going
to bars.”

CATCH: THIS COUPON AND SAVE

It’s the Monday Night Football Meal Deal. Only from Domino’s Pizza! CALL US! 896-8007

HOURS: Fountain Optical Largest collection of Classics and Traditionals in the Charlotte area Fountain Plaza, Hwy 73 W., Cornelius 892-9117
COMPLETE ON-PREMISE LABORATORY

M, W, Th, Fri 9-5:30; Sat. 9-Noon

Edward R. Stukbauer, F.N Licensed Optician Affiliated with Lake Norman Eye Clinic - Dr. Steven D. Friedman, O.D.

Children's Haircut & Style $3.00 Male or Female Haircut $5.00 Hair Designer's Studio & Salon Supplies BOOKING APPOINTMENTS MON.-THURS. 10-2
OPEN FRI. 10-6 & SAT. 10-3 WALK-INS WELCOME At 892-6982 HWY. 115 (2 MILES N. OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE)

Permanent Wave Starts $25.00

Recycle This Davidsonian
