THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Courage

Continued from Page 1

think, he said.

But beyond being judged on individual accomplishments, Martin said, “the right question to ask is if we have courage.” And
he continued, “If we see it in our children or our parents, we’ll remember it.”

He said Davidson College has been successful in its liberal arts mission by teaching people to distinguish between what abides
and what is passing, and he called that ability “the cornerstone of courage.”

“To my mind, the core curriculum of Davidson College is courage,” he concluded.

Martin’s address was answered with a standing ovation. Then, the presentation of awards filled the latter half of the convocation
program.

Benjamin J. Klein, Professor of Mathematics, received the Thomas Jefferson Award. It is presented annually to a faculty member who,
by personal influence, service, teaching, writing, and scholarship promotes high ideals.

Dean of the Faculty Robert Williams, in making the award, said, “He is dependable, energetic, and insightful. He is utterly
conscious and devoted to the welfare of Davidson College. Like Thomas Jefferson, who sorely wanted to lead a private life
of reflection and husbandry, but was always being called upon to serve his country, he has sacrificed much of his
private life to serve the larger interest of the college.”

Williams also announced that Klein and Anthony S. Abbott, Professor of English, have been named by the trustees as Dana
Professors in recognition of their high esteem among colleagues. Alexander J. McKelway was named as the Paul B. Freeland Professor
of Religion at the same time.

The other faculty award was public recognition of the previously announced George Polya Math Award for Richard D. Neidinger, associate
professor of mathematics. The Polya award is bestowed by the Mathematical Association of America for outstanding expository writing in its
journal.

The Goodwin-Exxon Awards - Established by Henry S. Goodwin of the Class of 1930 and Claire Goodwin and funded in
part by the Exxon Education Foundation, these awards go annually to a sophomore, a junior, and a senior adjudged to
exemplify the highest standards of character, good sportsmanship, and consideration of others.

Sarah Jane Sadowski ‘93
Kathryn Anne Beach ‘92
William Kearns Davis, Jr. ‘91

Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards - Presented annually to the outstanding cadet in the sophomore, junior, and senior
years of Military Science instruction.

Michael Paul Peters, Jr. ‘91
Kevin Lester Griggs ‘92
Mary Kelly Davis ‘93

Fall Convocation Awards

Helen Virginia Bell
Catherine Yun-Hui Chang
Rose Tindal Davis
Meredith Page Gooding
Thomas Carl Larson
Mika Nabeshima
John Arthur Nix, Jr.
Katharine Melissa Reynolds
Carl Vincent Van Osdall
Mark Anthony Wainwright

Class of ‘92

Kathryn Anne Beach
Douglas Harold Long
Michelle Lisa Plauche
Armando Jose Sanchez-Aballi

Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges - Presented annually since 1934 to recognize individual excellence on a
national level. The recipients of these awards are judged on scholarship ability, participation, and leadership in academic and extra-curricular activities,
citizenship, and service to their respective schools, and the potential for further achievement.

Marjorie Clark Havighurst
Joshua McKinnon Hickman
Robert Preston Hornsby, Jr.
Minne Iwamoto
Douglas Hendrix Jobe
Kristi Elaine Kessler
Kristina Leigh Laidlaw
Elizabeth Ann LeNard
Ingrid Hansen Love
Thomas S. Marshall, Jr.
Randall W. Mountcastle
Mika Nabeshima
John Arthur Nix, Jr.
Ellen Rockey Ott
Ingrid Alyssa Page
Michael Paul Peters, Jr.
Mark Damon Puckett
John Dan Raines, II
Lori Leigh Rockett
Ross Joseph Saldarini
Rafael Jorge Sanchez-Aballi
William Eugene Smith, III
Carl Vincent Van Osdall
Mark Anthony Wainwright
Derrick Duane Willard
LaClaire Williams

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990

Fountain Optical

Largest collection of Classics and Traditionals in the Charlotte area
Fountain Plaza, Hwy 73 W., 892-9117
COMPLETE ON-PREMISE LABORATORY
HOURS: M, W, Th, Fri 9-5:30
Tues. 9-8; Sat 9-Noon
Edward R. Stukbauer, F.N.A.O.
Licensed Optician
Affiliated with Lake Norman Eye Clinic - Dr. Steven D. Friedman, O.D.
Huntersville, NC (704) 896-8900

We train horse & rider for the highest level of show jumping competition.

The Alumni Association Freshman Award - Presented annually since 1917 to the sophomore who attained the highest academic average during
the freshman year.

Arindam Bhattacharjee
Susan Gail McDonald
Stephen Eric Wogen
Margaret McQueen Carroll

Omicron Delta Kappa Recognition - A national leadership society recognizing eminence in five phases of campus life: scholarship, athletics, social
and religious activities, publications, and forensic, dramatic, musical, and other cultural activities.

Class of ‘91

Suresh Kumar Acharya
William Barron Grow

Thomas Jefferson Award - Established by the Robert Earll McConnell Foundation, presented annually to a faculty member who by personal
influence, teaching, writing, and scholarship promotes the high ideals of Jefferson and who has given generously and well beyond the
call of duty.

Benjamin Garrett Klein
