Thursday, January 18, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Children of the malt:
taste-testing Mexican and Caribbean beers

By JOHN HUTCHINSON
Born out of the fear that, in a quest for quantities of beer, most students disregard its quality, this column
is the first of a series that will appear in this semester’s Davidsonian.

Though my guest drinkers and I are not beer connoisseurs, we can tell a good beer from a bad one.
“Children of the Malt” will record the opinions and evaluations of both myself and my several guest drinkers as we
taste at least 100 beers this semester in a series of 8-10 blind taste-testing sessions. This week’s column is dedicated
to cold beer from warm places: Mexico and the Caribbean. I extend thanks to Mike Van Hecke, Desktop Design Manager
in the College Relations office, and Charles Houck, Class of ‘89 and Domino’s Pizza Guy, for serving as guest drinkers.

The results, which in many cases were most surprising, are recorded on the chart.

Significant comments:

Sol: Complimented by lime, a good sipping beer with a sharp aftertaste.

Chihuahua: Enjoys success. Lime helps. Not much flavor, almost flat: “Distinct dishwater characteristics” —Van Hecke. “If it was the only
beer to drink, I’d drink water” —Houck.

Superior: Good, smooth taste, solid Mexican beer. Works well with lime.

Tecate: If you must drink it, only because of good advertising. Boring beer, bad with lime. Reeks: “Beer should only
smell like this after the digestion process” —Van Hecke.

Corona: Not a heavy beer. A good party beer, easy to drink a lot of. Would compliment cheese and crackers.
Clean taste. “A Mexican beer that should appeal to women” —Van Hecke.

Bohemia: Metallic, almost bourbon taste. “Oh, God! I give it an ‘F’ only because there is nothing lower. If someone
said ‘let's party’ and all they had was Bohemia, I’d say ‘you are irretrievably insane!’” —Houck. “An example of just
how bad a beer can be” —Hutchinson.

Dos Equis: Very good flavor, color. Heavy beer that would go well with a meal like steak. “Well-rounded, well-made beer”
—Houck. “Less Mexican flavor—I’d call it ‘Bavarian Mexican’” —Van Hecke.

Simpatico: Flat. “Drinkable but generic” —Van Hecke. “There’s too much good beer to waste your life drinking this” —Hutchinson.

Caribe (Kingston, Jamaica): Tastes like peas, honest. “I won’t give it an ‘F’ because it tastes so interesting: not too
good, but I could drink this in Aruba” —Houck. “Smells like when Evelyn puts green beans in the pressure cooker.
I’ll give it an A/F for guts/flavor” —Van Hecke.

Red Stripe (Trinidad, West Indies): Boring. A Budweiser with some flavor. “Nondescript. It’s a crying shame to pay $1.50 for
it when you can get Miller for 75 cents” —Van Hecke.

Our favorites: Dos Equis, Superior, and Corona.

Least favorites: Bohemia, Tecate, and Chihuahua.

Best for conversation: Caribe, Bohemia.

Hopefully you didn't wear anything you cared about at Self-selection

By VIRGINIA MISCHEN

“R-U-S-K! Husky Ruskie all the way!”

Although the computerized lists were out at 6 a.m., for most of the campus, this chant yelled by the members
of Rusk House was the unofficial start of Self-Selection.

Famed in Davidson social life as the biggest party night of the year, Self-Selection night arrives with its own very—well,
unique—experience.

The ladies of Watts Hall celebrated the induction of their new members. According to one freshman, self-selection was not a
time to wear clothes one cared about.

Whoever thought that being doused with champagne, skidding on one’s derriere across a very wet floor, and dancing with members
of one’s own sex could be so fun?

Self-Selection eve found many upperclassmen smiling (or grimacing!) as they remembered years past. It also found many freshmen wondering exactly
what madness would befall them the next night.

Freshman Katherine Casey thought Self-Selection was going to be a “massive party.” She described her expectations for the experience by
saying, “You walk in and people throw champagne all over you. And then the guys show up, right?”

Lisa Jacobson felt, “It’s gonna be really neat to belong to the house—going and partying with everyone you're going to
do stuff with.” When asked whether she had been told anything of the next evening’s festivities, she replied, “I’ve been
warned not to wear anything I care about.”

Andy Schwabe described his emotional state as “excited and apprehensive.” He anticipated Self-Selection being a “wild, crazy night.”

As a sophomore undergoing Self-Selection, Pichet Thiansathaporn had more knowledgeable words of wisdom to impart. The three words he used
to sum up the following night were “wild,” “crazy,” and “drinking.”

He continued by making a dubious-sounding claim: “I’m not going to look stupid.”

On Sunday night, when the hangovers were (hopefully!) gone, when the houses were clean, when the clothes were washed, memories
of Self-Selection, at least for some people, lingered on.

An unofficial poll of some freshmen revealed the general consensus for the evening to be “fun,” although Lisa Jacobson ruefully
exclaimed, “I didn’t think it would be so cold!”

And so now, Self-Selection ‘90 is but another page in Patterson Court history.

However, by way of a post-script, the author of this article would like to add that she does recall seeing
Pichet that momentous night.

And, unlike many of us, he didn’t look stupid.

Thirty-three percent of the freshman class opted to join Me Phi Me (Thanks for the term, M. Rein).
