Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

2 - Thursday, February 22, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

It’s not too late to divest, outside pressure must continue, says activist Niko Smith

By JAY CHAUDHURI

The following interview was conducted with South African anti-apartheid activist Niko Smith. Smith addressed the campus on several occasions this week. Here is what he has to say about the changes in South Africa.

The Davidsonian: Can you tell us a little bit about your experience living in a black township. What was the reaction by fellow Afrikaaners?

Smith: Well, if you know the South African city, the different population groups are completely separated. So, when we decided to go, (break in the tape...) it’s the people, I can answer seriously. It’s their deliberance to learn and to know their way of life, their own circumstances and how they experience South Africa. So from the sight of my own... feeling strongly the resistance there. Rejection. My family was saying I was irresponsible and that I should take my family into consideration. My life could be in danger. But on the other side, when we got into the black township we were just welcomed by the inhabitants of the township and they showed a really big warm friendship. The hospitality... to us... in the community. So I tried to communicate to my own people and say the deliberance of black people is just like living in any other place. It’s just that they have a much more closer relationship. And the people are getting much more interested in one another than the white community. But it is certainly difficult for them to think that it is possible because of the cultural differences. Especially the old folks in South Africa.

The Davidsonian: I guess with the winds of change in South Africa now, many western governments are re-evaluating their sanctions policies. For example, Margaret Thatcher has now decided to stop sanctions against South Africa. Should the U.S. government discontinue sanctions toward South Africa in light of current reforms, or should they continue these policies?

Smith: No, I cannot say that they should discontinue, no. Because if the western countries are now going to slacken down their policies on sanctions, the South African government will use that to delay the negotiations as long as possible. Because they know what it means if they start to negotiate. Eventually, they will get to the point where they will be forced to allow a general election in the country in which blacks will also participate. Or they will work out their own long scheme and try to delay as long as possible. So, the sanction play must now be kept on, until the South African government has been willing to go to the administration table and they have worked out what will be the future... And only then we would say, and they can start saying that, they can take away sanctions. If you begin to do it now, that is just going to encourage the white government in South Africa to delay the whole process of negotiations.

The Davidsonian: The reforms that have been taken by the Hungarian and the African National Congress... and the release of Nelson Mandela, are indeed, historical in South Africa’s history. With these new changes is there now a climate conducive to negotiations between the white minority government and the Black...

Smith: Well, at least there is... but as I’ve said, those are in the... They never prepared the white population to tell them look, we are a minority group, and eventually we will have to allow the black people power. So when all of a sudden, they unbanned black political politics and released the political prisoners, it was a severe shock to the whites. And that is why you now have a very strong black... (national side against the white conservatives) Which is what I believe will continue, and will keep growing because the whites are not going to accept it. That negotiations will take place, and that the government will eventually be taken over by the blacks. They will resist it as long as they can. So, as I understand the situation at the moment, the possibility for a bloody eruption is greater than before. Because now you have the high expectations on one side, from the black population, and you have the fear... And that can really cause an enormous eruption.

The Davidsonian: Dr. Willie Esterhuyse, a professor of political philosophy at the University of Stellenbosch, and an advisor to the government of South Africa, stated in an Africa report, that “The release of Nelson Mandela is really not the issue. The real issue is the role of Nelson Mandela.” Could you comment on...what you envision or perceive Nelson Mandela’s role to be now that he’s released?

Smith: It strikes me as not trying to play dumb. To release Mandela is, of course, of great historical significance. It is a significant thing. The fact that the government was willing to release him after being in jail for 27 years. Now the question is what line will he take. I don’t think he’s going to take another line other than the line he took when he was sentenced 27 years ago. He will continue to struggle for equal political rights for the black population. He has already said that in that struggle there might even be violence. (He wants violence. Africa’s violent. There might even be violence.)... (But in spite of that, equal rights are more important.) I think they have done something great to release him. I think they are soon going to discover that what he is going to say will mean much more than words.

The Davidsonian: In your class, you referred to the momentous reforms of De Klerk as being the beginning of the Black liberation struggle. How long do you foresee the struggle continuing and what will De Klerk’s strategy be?

Smith: De Klerk is speaking of the five-year plan... I believe this year is really going to be of great importance in the development of the political process. What I see De Klerk doing is that he will try to build up an alliance with the addition of black leaders in that country, the so-called (Omrac) leaders... He will also try and mobilize some other black leaders in local councils and build up an alliance with them in order to neutralize the overwhelming influence of the A.N.C. at the moment. So I think that he will play for as much time as possible, to see if he can really get that alliance going.

The Davidsonian: You hinted at the fact that perhaps there will be violence, or an outbreak in South Africa. Do you foresee bloodshed and violence during the transfer of power?

Smith: As I have explained, the release of Mr. Mandela, the unbanning of the political parties, all those things were not the liberation of South Africa. It’s only the beginning of the struggle for liberation. And if the pressures from outside are not going to be continued, then the white government will not be in the least, in a hurry to try and go to the administration table. So I would say, as far as the Trustees are concerned, that they must continue the commitment, in order to let the South African government know that they want the government to make a statement on their intention. When are they going to negotiate, and what will be the process of negotiation, and how are they going to arrange it.

Niko Smith, one of the founders of Koinonia, an anti-apartheid organization, addressed several audiences this past week. Freeing Mandela is not indicative of future accommodations by the Afrikaner government, he said.

Smith: During a period of 40 years, the government has implemented this policy of apartheid, with so much violence. They have used so much violence to implement this policy, that the South African society is really filled with violence. There are so many tensions between groups of people. I can just see that we are now in a situation where there will be an interplay of violence. That is what politics is all about. It is an interplay of violence. That interplay in a climate where there is so much violence can easily provoke the outbreak of violence. So I can’t see how they are going to be able to prevent that. If they are going to use the army again to try and control the people, it can really be a bloodshed.

The Davidsonian: Davidson College has not yet divested its funds from companies doing business in South Africa. An editorial appeared in our paper last week by an alumna from the class of ‘68 who established Davidson Alumnae Against Apartheid. In part of his article he wrote “Davidson College as an institution cannot claim to have been part of the pressure today in South Africa. It is not too late for the trustees to act.” Is it too late for Davidson College to divest its funds?

Smith: No, I would say not. They can...

Photo by Ed Matthews

Smith: What is the position at the moment with Davidson’s Trustees? How does it work?

The Davidsonian: Currently, they adhere to the Sullivan Principle. They do not support the apartheid system in South Africa, but a lot of companies they are dealing with are. They see it as wrong, but yet, they do not wish to divest.