Wednesday, February 7, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Date rape: there is such a thing as caution

Dear Editors,

We read with interest Lucia Kendall’s most recent commentary on date rape. It was a well-written, well-argued piece about a
topic of tremendous importance. As resident advisors, it is a problem we are particularly sensitive to, for all our hall
residents are women. Unfortunately, we feel that this very serious issue will be belittled in light of Miss Kendall’s previous
commentaries. The irrelevant non-issues of her former articles have made way for one that requires much more consideration. We hope
that Miss Kendall will continue to choose topics of this quality in the future.

The analogy of theft and rape was a good choice, as in both cases something precious is taken. Imagine, however,
a scene in which a drunken man stumbles around waving handfuls of money in the air in a dark alley.
Were someone to take it, the crime would be equally reprehensible, but sympathy would be less for the victim who
was behaving in an idiotic manner. There is such a thing as caution. Awareness and prevention are two things that
can greatly lessen the occurrence of date rape. Self-defense courses, assertiveness training, and common sense will provide a woman with
many more options if she gets involved in a difficult situation. Please read or re-read the article carefully, and give
the information the merit and attention it deserves.

Sincerely,
Cecily Craighill ‘91
Judi Kemerait ‘91

“KKK” comment off the mark

Dear Editors,

While I perused page nine of your fine publication this Wednesday past, I happened upon a distressing and erroneous comment
made by Mr. Marshall Smith. After stating his opinion concerning “reverse discrimination,” he says that, “...the only people that are
out there strictly for white people is the KKK... And nobody wants to go to them...” He later claims that
“The KKK should’ve been phased out like two seconds after they were formed.” Fine. The KKK is out for nobody
except the racist redneck bigots who insist that they, amusingly enough, are somehow superior physically, mentally, and ethnically to Blacks,
Orientals, Hispanics, Jews, Catholics, Slavs, Indians, and immigrants, to name a few. I hasten to point out that several of
the ethnic groups include members of white races. I'd also like to point out that “white” is a rather nebulous
term, especially as Mr. Smith has used it. “White” is a skin color, not a single ethnic group. For example,
I fail to see similarities, ethnically, between Scots and Romanians... Well, they’re both white.... The term “race” embodies a culture,
a national identity, and a past history, not just a physical feature. Several ethnic groups of light-skinned origins, most notably
Jews, Armenians, and Irish, have very powerful political lobbies in our nation’s capital. In my opinion, organizations like the NAACP
and NOW are at the forefront of political agendas and media coverage because they consist of very large voting memberships
and tend to address more controversial and domestic issues. All white people do not necessarily share a common or similar
heritage as Afro-Americans do, or common biological and gender-related concerns as women do. The only people the KKK speaks for
are themselves, and that is not saying much, at all. Thank God.

Sincerely,
Chris Kelly, ‘91

Assistant Editor-Elizabeth Hows
Assistant Opinions Editor: Ingrid Page
News Staff: Beth Brown, Peter Bynum, Girish Gvalani, Lisa Jackson, Delia Johnson, Tom Koonce, Joe Mavis, Walter Price, Wright, Molly
Production Assistant: Peter Fisher
Advertising Staff: Cherry Ryan

NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.
Opinions in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not reflect the views of the Trustees of Davidson College.Russ, Rafael
Sanchez-Aballi, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Jennifer Sieck, Seyler Seth William Urban, Susannah Wellford, Jennifer Whittington, Clay Young — Features Staff: Curt
Bickers, Lee Bushell, David Coarsey, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Liz Davidson, John Earles, Matt Goad, Elizabeth Howe, Nusrat Khan, Prem
Manjooran, Charles Sun, Anjali Sharma, Adam Smith, David Ciggy, Mary Faith Mount, Tracy-Lynn Perez, Phil Prescott, Mark Bosse, Chen Smith,
Todd Stephenson — Spider Staff: Matt Brentgens, Tim Dancy, Meg Davis, Frank Gibbes, Nancy Green, Paige Hull, Tom Koonce, Robbie
McKay, Robert Marshall, Jane Mount, Bonita Paysour, Ted Richardson, Carl Van Osdall, Vashist Worah — Staff Artists: Reese Boyd, John
Morris, J.W. Mullis, Moreland Smith — Circulation Staff: Nancy Green, Moreland Smith, Ginny White.

The Davidsonian is published throughout the school year by the students of Davidson College. Subscriptions cost $25. Send address changes
to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.

Editors: Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge
Associate Editor: Jay Chaudhuri
News Editors: Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler
Features Editor: Heath Hardage
Sports Editor: John Burns
Business Manager: Chris Kelly
Opinions Editor: Timothy Jacks
Inside Art Editor: Doug Gibson
Circulation Manager: Moreland Smith
Photography Editor: Ed Matthews
Advertising Manager: Bill Scouten
Copy Editor: Laura Sizemore
Editor Emeritus: Thomas Hampson Moore

Where the professors actually teach

For those of you who worry about where to send your sons and daughters to college in this era of
professors who take pride not in teaching but in doing research and writing and consulting, Thomas Sowell has provided a
list of good schools where the professors actually teach: Swarthmore, Amherst, Oberlin, Davidson, Franklin & Marshall, and Whitman.
— Charles Peters, The Washington Monthly, January 1990 (emphasis added)

When was the last time you sat back and truly cherished your Davidson education? Or when did you last say
"alenda lux ubi orta libertas" with the vigor and sincerity it deserves? Every Davidson student, however, can recall memories such
as sitting in a class of six or ten or twenty and hotly debating the underpinnings of democracy or the
hidden symbolism of Shakespeare or the meaning of a ground-breaking experiment that probed the brains of mice. And we have
all made use of office hours and after office hours to get extra help or to extend such discussions.

Although I have no idea who Thomas Sowell is, Peters’ compliment deserves notice. Sometimes we need someone to remind us
that the things we have come to take for granted, such as self-scheduled exams and faculty with a genuine desire
to teach, are not common components of most colleges. Sometimes it takes a visit to another college to appreciate just
what Peters is talking about. Walking into a classroom of 300, watching the graduate student strap on his or her
microphone and listening to a lecture that demands nothing more than rote memory can be a sobering experience. You just
can’t beat a 12-1 student to faculty ratio.

This is not to say that Davidson professors are not concerned with research and writing—most professors are currently working on
personal research projects, writing journal articles, and publishing books (including Pulitzer Prize nominee Tony Abbott). But these professors stress that
they are teachers and students first. Often faculty members will involve students in their work outside of class. Davidson has
recently added many features to attract students to the campus, including an incredible new sports complex. But we should remember
that some of the oldest traditions of the college are still our biggest selling point. In our pursuit to be
“the Princeton of the South,” let us not forget the characteristics that distinguish our college in its own right.
