THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor
TRENT STEVENS, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor
HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor
PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager

Letters

Texaco Dude Replies (Again)

To the Editors:

I find it outstanding that The Davidsonian, as a representative of a fine academic institution, would permit publication of inaccuracies
and blatant falsities such as were replete in Tosh Crystal’s September 27 column, “Hey Bob, Where’s My Car?”

In regard to towing of illegally parked vehicles, Mr. Crystal apparently created totally false statements and masqueraded them as truth.
He stated, “I cornered the towing dude at the Texaco station down the street. He said that the sinister force
behind these heartless towings is ... Bob Collins.” This careless statement by Mr. Crystal is unequivocally untrue. In my estimation,
no one at our Texaco was even asked such a question, but if asked, I’d reply just as I have
in the past, “our towing of illegally parked vehicles is a result of the total disregard for rules and regulations
by a small percentage of students.”

Mr. Crystal continued, “I talked to one girl whose car door was damaged a good deal by an overzealous cop
who tried to use a slim-jim, but went for it anyway. She wasn’t even parked illegally.” The car in question
was simply moved backward approximately three feet to allow space for the installation of a new parking light. There was
no charge made to the student. Furthermore, the “good deal of damage” mentioned by misinformed Mr. Crystal involved nothing more
than a small metal rod inside the door slipping out of its plastic holder. I personally repaired the door, again
at no cost to the student. Mr. Crystal’s incomplete research is juvenile and worrisome.

Mr. Crystal continued his misleading tirade; “I personally saw these guys tow a car despite the fact that they couldn’t
get the steering column unlocked. I’m sure that did wonders for the car.” Such a statement demonstrates how totally deluded
Mr. Crystal has become. While towing a car from the front, the position of the steering is irrelevant. However, while
towing a car from the rear, the steering must absolutely remain locked. Otherwise, the random swaying back-and-forth of the vehicle’s
front end would wreak havoc upon every parked car and pedestrian along the towing path. Why on earth does Mr.
Crystal suppose we’d prefer to tow a vehicle with an unlocked steering?

Tosh Crystal’s bizarre comments became more and more ludicrous as he continued, “A friend of mine saw them lift up
the end of a car on the towing hitch and shake it until the steering unlocked.” This absurd statement honestly
evoked a snicker. If, in some fit of exhausted desperation during a total lapse of mental coherence, we were to
shake a car vigorously until it registered an 8.5 on the Richter...Scale, it would positively have no bearing on the
locked steering column. And again, we simply have no reason to unlock that steering. Furthermore, after a diligent search all
over our tow trucks, I’ve been quite unable to locate the lever labeled “shake.” At the risk of reiteration, I
must question the policy and wisdom of The Davidsonian in publishing Tosh Crystal’s slanderous falsehoods. His careless disregard for facts
may easily prove a liability for your paper.

Sincerely,
FRANKIE ARCHER
Archer's Texaco
October 8, 1990

Lilly Defends Korner Pub
To the Editors:

I would like to respond to the article in The Davidsonian entitled, “Korner Pub Exhibits Racism” (September 20, 1990). The
article, which was written by a Sophomore, Kirby Shealy, is not accurate in several of its assumptions. First of all,
Kirby says that the Pub has not been the social hangout for Davidson students for an outstanding number of years.
In fact, the Pub has just recently received the reputation of a good place to go to relax with a
game of pool and a few mugs of beer. About seven years ago you would not find many Davidson students
at the Pub. Since then, though, students have been going to the Pub in increasing numbers—a trend the owner, Alice,
is certainly happy to see.

Next, Kirby states that “several students have been denied service and asked to leave because they did not suit the
owners’ standards.” After engaging Alice in a long conversation (as Kirby obviously did not), I was informed that she runs
a business which does not cater solely to the students of Davidson College. She also told me that she has
never asked a person to leave nor has she refused to serve someone, much less “several students,” if proper legal
identification were presented. To quote the owner, “I don’t care who comes in here as long as they behave themselves.
One man’s money is as good as another’s.” The simple point is that the Pub is a public establishment. Therefore,
it cannot pick and choose who enters and exits its doors as long as they are well behaved. I have
been to the Pub several times with minorities and have always been served with them, no questions asked.

I suggest the next time Kirby decides to pick on an establishment he consider a few things first: one, pick
on one that he can legally enter; two, pick on one he thoroughly understands instead of going strictly on hearsay;
three, pick on one that he intends to be around for more than four years of his life. Indeed, it
is a bit unfair to start controversy and then leave the area two years later. Four, if he must pick
on an establishment and choose racism as his topic then might I suggest his state government—or has he noticed that
the state of South Carolina still flies the Rebel Flag high atop its capitol?

Sincerely,
STEVEN HAGBE
October 15, 1990
