15 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Baseball Records Were Meant to be Broken
By GIGGY MAXWELL

As the 1990 Davidson Wildcat baseball season winds down, several career and season records stand to be broken. The leader, far and away, of course, is senior pitcher Greg Wilcox. Entering the 1990 campaign, Wilcox already owned the season record for wins (11) and the career strikeout mark (254). As his senior season has played itself out (he is currently 8-1, with a 2.50 ERA), Greg has continued to add to his list of achievements. He is currently the winningest pitcher in Davidson history, in both wins (29 and counting) and winning percentage (.674), and has also started more games (42) and thrown more innings (351.3) than anyone ever to don a Davidson uniform. It’s probably safe to say that these records will remain unchallenged at least until the turn of the century.

Senior center fielder and resident speedster, Ron Kmacik, also has his sights set on some notable Davidson records, specifically the season and career stolen base records. His current totals are 17 and 52, respectively. He needs 11 thefts to surpass the season mark and 13 to eclipse the career record. Both marks are currently owned by former Olympian and current minor-leaguer Bill Masse.

The other senior vying for a place in Davidson athletic history is second baseman Mikio Aoki. Mikio has 14 doubles this season. With a strong finish, he could surpass the mark of 19 set two years ago by Roy Vilardi.

Newcomer and preseason 3rd team All-American Rob Eenhoorn also has his sights set on some lofty goals. By season’s end, he should own the season record for hits (he is currently 16 hits shy with 14 games to play) and be close to the season record for total bases. If the ‘Cats can go 10-4 the rest of the way, the team will be the winningest in Davidson history. The present high-water mark stands at 28 wins.

So, with only fourteen games left in the 1990 season, get out to Wildcat Park and get yourself a taste of Davidson athletic history.

Read Balestier
Photo Courtesy of Caroline Price
Pictured here are participants of the First Annual Invitational Racquetball Tournament. Armando Sanchez-Aballi (bottom right) was the winner.

Racquetball Tournament Held
Continued from Page 13

After a taxing round-robin slate of matches (meaning everybody plays each other), Armando Sanchez-Aballi emerged from the field of about ten as the champion. Hugh Lee, of our own Davidson College Union, placed second, and Billy Devens took third.

Women’s tennis coach Caroline Price, who staged the affair, stated that the goal of the tournament was to determine the interest and level of play of racquetball players on campus. She plans to parlay that interest into three tournaments at Davidson next year and a club team (to compete intercollegiately) in the near future. If you are interested, coach Price is the person to whom you ought to talk.from page 8

So men of Davidson, I propose something a little platitudinous. But it could be a lot of fun. Let’s respect our women as we would our sisters. If we tried this, I think we would become aware of everything wonderful that separates us from them (in a fuller sense), and we would suddenly find dumped in our laps along with this friendships that would be enormously edifying. And then when love eventually came along it would be magnificent, and developed fully for that person. You see if we began to do this, there would be absolutely no reason why a little girl would only trust a man if he were behind iron bars.

Call Us! 896-8007

Shops on the Green
Lunch Break
Medium 2-topping Pizza
ONLY $6
tax Included
Present this coupon to receive ONE 12" 2-topping Pizza for $6 tax included from 11am to 4pm. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Valid at participating stores. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. ©1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

IT’S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA
Hours: 4:30pm-1am Sun.-Thurs.
4:30pm-2am Fri. & Sat.

$1 OFF
Present this coupon to receive $1 OFF any Pan or Original pizza. This offer is not valid with Doubles. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.

Correction: The headline for Lucia Kendall's article in last week's issue was supposed to read "Rosa at Davidson: They aren't just freaks way out in California." The previous editors apologize for their error.

Baker Center Hours
Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
Friday, 7:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday, 1:00 - 6:00 p.m.

Pool Hours
Monday through Friday, 7:15 a.m. - 9:00 a.m., 11:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m., 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday, 2:00 - 4:00 p.m.