8

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BASKETBALL

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990

With New Recruits, McKillop Optimistic About Team

By MATT JOHNES

With the loss of a slew of seniors from a basketball squad that finished 4-24 last year, the ‘90-91 season
may appear dismal. Add to that a schedule that includes St. John and Atlantic Coast Conference powerhouses Wake Forest, Duke,
and Virginia, and the season might look like a long one.

But don’t dismiss the Wildcats this year, as Dick Vitale has; he has predicted Davidson to finish in last place.
Second-year coach Bob McKillop, after a successful career at Long Island Lutheran High School in New York, has recruited a
talented freshman class. Couple this with a host of experienced veterans and the program has reason to be optimistic. In
this interview with the Davidsonian, McKillop talks of his expectations for the season, assesses the impact of the newcomers, evaluates
the competition, and expresses his joy at the Wildcats’ affiliation with the Big South Conference.

Davidsonian: Dick Vitale picked Davidson to finish last in the Big South conference. What is your reaction to this?

McKillop: Obviously, it presents some motivation for our bulletin board. I think it’s indicative of what we’ve done in the
past couple of years, our lack of success. It also perhaps reflects the fact that we'll be relying a lot
on freshman youth and inexperience.

Davidsonian: What do you think the impact of this year’s recruiting class will be?

McKillop: We will see very early, because they are going to get the opportunity to play early in the season.
I’ve been delighted with what I’ve seen in the preseason. We have a lot more weapons this year than we
did last year, and they are going to have a very significant impact on us. They are going to be
the core of our program for the next three years.

Davidsonian: What teams will be contenders for the conference title?

McKillop: Coastal Carolina, in all the publications, is the favorite. After that, there is no one team that stands out
as being far superior to others. Coastal Carolina is the out-and-out favorite; I think they stand head and shoulders above
everyone else. I don’t believe there will be that much of a difference between the second and third place team
and the seventh and eighth place team.

Davidsonian: Who will fill the point guard slot left open by the graduation of Alan Hunter?

McKillop: There are three guys who are going to be seeing playing time at that spot: Pat Holloway and Jason
Zimmerman, who are freshmen, and Paul Denmond, a junior. At this point, it looks like Pat is the odds-on favorite
to get that position this year.

Davidsonian: Who do you see as the starting five this year?

McKillop: I can’t project that at this point. There is no doubt that Detlef Musch will be starting at the
center spot. He’s got a lot of experience, he’s improved his strength, and he’s improving each and every day. Detlef’s
best years are still ahead of him. Paul Denmond is the guy we’re going to go to for one of
the guard spots, so I think Pat and Paul you can pencil in as guards, but after that it’s up
for grabs.

Davidsonian: How do you feel about the fan support last season, and what are your expectations for it this year?

McKillop: When you are winning, you’re going to attract support. There’s no doubt about that, and I think Dave Fagg
and his football team have proven that. I’m extremely impressed with what the student body has done with the football
team in terms of their support. The crowds are enthusiastic, the crowds are responsive, and the crowds are rather large
in number, and that’s consistent with winning. The cheerleaders have made an effort to be as well-prepared and enthusiastic as
they possibly can be. Right now there is a Spirit of Success that’s all over campus, because of the success
of the sports teams, and the leadership of Terry Holland, and we hope this spirit carries over into basketball season.

Davidsonian: What is the importance of your conference affiliation?

McKillop: It gives us a goal to shoot for. Now we have a goal to look forward to all season
long, instead of playing game to game.

Hobart Park

The Davidson Arts Magazine

Winter Issue Submission Deadline: November 19, 1990

Submissions may be made to the Union Desk

November 10 - December 5 Hobart Park Exhibition in Chambers Lobby
