Chasing away the winter blahs

By JOHN EARLES

Does the return to work after an extended Christmas vacation leave you cold? Do you reminisce about the times when you could spend the day relaxing outdoors and watching Bowl games? If so, January Chill Chasers may be the solution you have been looking for.

Sponsored by the Davidson College Union, Chill Chasers offer a variety of short courses to members of the Davidson community.

The courses range from stress management to beginning juggling and serve to bring together different elements of the campus in an exchange of information and goodwill.

Since the program began in 1982, offering only six courses, Chill Chasers have proven increasingly popular. Last year, over 400 people took advantage of at least one course, and this year’s selection of 25 courses offers an even wider selection.

Union Program Coordinator Ruth Pittard believes that the success of the project is due to its increasing “reputation for leaving people satisfied.”

Another reason for the popularity of the program could be the ever-changing variety of courses. This year, English Professor and Pulitzer prize nominee Tony Abbott will lead a discussion on the poetic process. In addition, certified graphoanalyst Nancy Otterbach, a Davidson native, will offer a course on handwriting analysis.

While other popular courses include discussions on self-management, the year’s most requested program was Grounds Supervisor Irvin Brawley’s instruction in the basics of shag.

In the opinion of Amy Burkesmith, the coordinator of the Visitor’s Center and the individual in charge of recruiting community and business members to the program, Chill Chasers serve as “a goodwill effort on the part of the campus and community” to liven up “a time of year when things get a little bit dull.”

If the winter blahs have been getting you down, maybe a January Chill Chaser is what you need.

Thursday, January 18, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

With Macintosh, you can even do this:

New
Close
Open...
Save As...
Print...
Quit

Macintosh* computers have always been easy to use. But they've never been this easy to own.

Presenting The Macintosh Sale. Through January 31, you can save hundreds of dollars on a variety of Apple® Macintosh computers and peripherals. So now there’s no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With The Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with much more of a computer without spending a lot more money.

For more information, contact the Davidson College Computer Center or Lydia Lorenzin at 892-2432.

The Macintosh Sale. Now through January 31.

© 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

Freddie knows that K-mas classes are full. Well, you better just get in line and hack the drop/add line.

by S.W. Mullis

Lopes with second semester

Remember:

If you spent all your money over Christmas, you probably aren't going to have very much for the rest of the year. But who needs warm weather in January? Nothing but pictures of high school classmates!

Your understanding of life, the universe, and everything is a lot easier to assess in January than in April.