2 Beyond Davidson Wednesday, February 14, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mandela freed; German exchange student discusses pros and cons of reunification

By CAROL GATEWOOD and CAROLINE WILLIAMSON

USSR: In a three-day meeting last week, the Central Committee approved Mikhail Gorbachev’s proposal for change in the Soviet system
of government. These proposals included 1) for the Communist Party to relinquish its monopoly on political power so as to
allow for the eventual emergence of a multi-party system and 2) for a new elected post of president to be
formed. The idea behind these proposals is to make the USSR into a more pluralist society. According to Alexander Yakovlev,
Gorbachev's liberal aide, the changes are “a major step away from the [old] administrative model of socialism toward a new
society with more democratic choice.” Even though the proposed plan includes the emergence of new political parties, the Communist Party
will probably remain a strong faction in the USSR. According to an article in The Wall Street Journal, if Gorbachev
becomes the new president of the USSR, along with his other roles he will have more power than the President
of the US. The proposals must go before the full Communist Party Congress in late June or early July. Because
the plan deals with a change in the Soviet Constitution, it must next be presented to the parliament as a
policy platform. This proposed change in the Soviet political arena is surprising given Gorbachev's disapproval late last year of a
multi-party system.

Just as the Central Committee concluded its meetings, Secretary of State James Baker arrived in the Soviet Union to meet
with top leaders and attend a parliamentary committee meeting. During his visit, Baker introduced a new proposal by President Bush
that calls for a limit of troop levels in Europe to 175,000 for each superpower. This would involve cuts of
60,000 by the U.S. and 370,000 by the USSR from present levels. As stated by the New York Times, Baker
introduced the proposal in an effort to avoid any upstaging by Gorbachev (which occurred during Baker’s last visit when Gorbachev
introduced a plan to cut 500 missiles in Europe). The Administration may also be trying to strengthen its foreign policy
position in anticipation of Congressional elections in November that may give the Democratic-controlled Congress more license to cut defense budget
proposals for fiscal year 1990.

CHINA: Chinese officials warned that changes in its government similar to those in Eastern Europe would lead to civil war
in China. Earlier, the Chinese government declared that it would not change its communist form of government.

SOUTH AFRICA: Nelson Mandela, the leader of the ANC, was released from prison on February 11 at 3 a.m. For
the first time since 1964, Mandela addressed a group at Cape Town’s City Hall a few hours after his release.
In the midst of celebration over his release, fear exists that violence will increase, not only between the government and
the anti-apartheid movement but also between black factions to the left and right of the ANC. De Klerk met with
Mandela on Friday night and felt that Mandela was “committed to a peaceful solution.” Mandela has agreed to mediate between
the government and the recently legalized ANC. President Bush praised De Klerk for Mandela’s release and proposed that some US
sanctions towards South Africa be released. This received mixed opinions in Congress with some congressmen feeling that South Africa should
be rewarded for its efforts and others saying that South Africa has not done enough to alleviate its racial problems.

GERMAN REUNIFICATION: Following international events by just reading newspapers and periodicals does not always let Americans maintain an accurate perspective
of what's really going on in the world. Fortunately, last week Thomas Fischer, an exchange student from Wurzburg, West Germany,
provided us with details on the problems that the two Germanies must deal with in their steps towards reunification. Thomas
first explained that the West German constitution implemented in 1945 set reunification as its highest goal and that when it
occurs a new constitution must be formed. Undoubtedly, Germans are excited at finally realizing this goal, but reunification will force
both countries through many difficult changes and it will require international cooperation and support. Thomas pointed out that Article IV
of the Deutschland Vertrag (the German treaty that formally ended WWII) requires that the four occupying powers (US, France, Great
Britain, and the USSR) support the reunification. Last week Helmut Kohl met with Mikhail Gorbachev to discuss the German question.
Gorbachev agreed with Kohl that reunification is inevitable, thus signaling a victory for the West German Prime Minister. On February
24/25, Kohl will travel to the US in hopes of receiving the same recognition and support from President Bush. Great
Britain, however, continues to hold out against the uniting of the two Germanies. The two Germanies also are forced to
deal with their respective membership in NATO and the Warsaw Pact; naturally, this will involve all other members of these
alliances that have dominated East-West relations for the past forty years.years. Thomas explained that Prime Minister Modrow of the GDR
supports the ten-point plan outlined by Prime Minister Kohl of the FRG that sees neutralization of the Germanies as a
component of reunification. Modrow has suggested that this can only be accomplished if each Germany revokes its membership in NATO
and the Warsaw Pact. Presently, Kohl as well as other member nations are against pulling out of NATO.

Thomas also emphasized how weak East Germany’s political and economic conditions are today. Presently, the government is in a trap
where it cannot make policy for its own people. Instead, pressure groups are making policy as the most popular leaders
of the SED continue to leave their party and pursue new political careers in other groups. Elections scheduled for March
18 may help give the government a popular mandate, but as Thomas said, this will not necessarily solve East Germany’s
economic problems. The economy is one that has for 40 years been centrally planned by the communist government. As a
result, no substantial upper-level management exists in the country and 60 to 70 percent of the economy is self-reliant. The
consequences of these two factors have grown due to the large exodus of skilled workers to the West. Thomas illustrated
the implications by pointing out that if one industry in West Germany fails because it lacks skilled workers, it can
have a domino effect upon other industries. Combined with East Germany’s present inability to convert its currency, the potential for
collapse is imminent. This explains Kohl’s immediate move last week to form a committee that will try to unite the
currencies of the two Germanies. West Germany does not need the extra burden of dealing with a collapsed East German
economy; Thomas pointed out that even if reunification succeeds on paper, West Germany as an individual body will be weaker.

In the midst of all of these changes, Thomas fears that Americans don’t realize how monumental they are and that
the United States can make great contributions to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union that are not necessarily monetary. The
US has a great opportunity through its knowledge in Western management and consulting to help support the economic changes that
are surpassing political change through a better transition. The urgency of this can be seen when one envisions Thomas’ “worst-case
scenario” for Western Europe if conditions in the USSR become so unstable in one day from political overthrow or economic
collapse. If its citizens decide to leave, Western Europe would be forced to deal with the arrival of up to
five million emigrants in one day. How would even the US react to such a situation?

SOGGY, from page 1

morning and worked with a professional cleaning service, Servicemaster, to remove the water and treat the carpets to prevent mildew
from growing. The owner of the service reported that none of the carpets sustained any permanent damage. In addition to
carpets, items such as sweaters, notebooks, luggage, textbooks, and a computer that were on the floor at the time were
also soaked. Although Terry said the College was not legally responsible for damages, he told students on the hall to
turn in a complete list of ruined items so that the College could try to work out some compensation.

The chief complaint from Akers’ residents was the musty smell that remained in the dorm for almost a week after
the flood. “It smelled like a musty gym bag,” complained Louis Gueday of Akers 111. Gueday said cement bricks have
now been placed around the water heater as a type of dam to hold the water in the event of
a future leak, although he was skeptical of this measure’s effectiveness. Terry said the incident was a result of the
seal on the casket being worn down and suggested that for such an incident to occur again would be extremely
rare. But Gene Jones, Akers 109, was not convinced that the incident was just a fluke. He summed up the
sentiment shared by many of his hallmates: “I just hope they fix it right this time.”

IVANA TRUMP SEEKS DAVIDSON COLLEGE IN DIVORCE SUIT! DETAILS IN YOUR NEXT DAVID’S ONION!

DORM DELIVERY NOW AVAILABLE

Call in your order by 8:45 PM 896-7611 Delivery 9:30 PM Sunday thru Thursday nights

THE AMERICAN
Roast beef, turkey, ham, cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar. $3.00

THE ITALIAN
Salami, pepperoni, hard salami, ham, cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar. $3.00

THE HAM
Ham, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar. $3.00

THE TURKEY
Turkey, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar. $3.00

THE ROAST BEEF
Roast beef, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar. $3.00

Hi, at Steak ‘n Hoagie we are happy to initiate dorm deliveries on a trial basis. Coupons will not be
applicable to these deliveries.
