Wednesday, January 31, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Children of the malt part III: Choice brews from the Great White North
By JOHN HUTCHINSON

We donned our drinking toques, played our Bob and Doug McKenzie album, and took off to the Great White North for an evening. My guest drinkers were David Devereux, native Canadian and guest drinker of American beers, and Bill "Scooter" Scouten '90, who has been to Canada. Apparently, the beer drinking word has spread around Domino’s, as not one but two pizza guys, Charles Houck ’89 and Tom Moore ’90, both of whom agreed that they had heard of Canada, showed up about five beers into the process to graciously offer their assistance. Thanks, hoseheads.

We blind-sampled 15 Canadian beers during the evening. Of the 15, only nine can be purchased in North Carolina. Those nine are all rather standard beers available at most local grocers. The remaining six, all marked by an asterisk (*), were bootlegged into the states by Devereux and Gilbert during the Christmas holidays.

*Brick: Watery smell. Very dry beer with more of an after-feel than an aftertaste. “Not completely unpleasant, but it has the faint aftertaste of vomit” — Scouten.

*Upper Canada Lager: Smell of Ricotta cheese. Bitter. “I don’t like it” — Houck. “I wonder how it would be with Wrigley’s Spearmint gum?” — Scouten. “Moderately intriguing” — Devereux.

*LaBatt’s Velvet Cream Porter: Smells like something you pour over an ice cream sundae. Good dessert beer that could possibly be improved with whipped cream. The dark heavy appearance set expectations for something exquisite, but it would be whimpy even for a light beer. “After 7 or 8, you’d probably enjoy it” — Devereux.

*Superior Lager: Smells like an open can of tennis balls, tastes like a dry white wine “if wine were made from malt” — Moore. “If it smells like tennis balls, the taste doesn’t have much of a backhand” — Moore.

*Skuller: Sharp, meaty, with the taste of alcohol. Bites and then lets go. “It’s like somebody dripped vodka in it” — Houck.

Moosehead: Watery taste and too much fizz, reminiscent of a cheap champagne. Saltine crackers muted the taste, food would certainly kill it. “Weenie beer” — Hutchinson. “When you finish this, you aren’t sure you’ve had a beer” — Devereux. “Moosehead? This is more like fish head!” — Moore.

LaBatt’s Blue Light: Pleasant. “When told it was LaBatt’s Blue Light, I thought they started off with a good beer and ruined it” — Devereux. “Unless you rebel, it isn’t that bad” — anon.

Of the Canadian beers, Molson and LaBatt’s are the country’s most popular. Advertising for LaBatt’s is aimed at the upper middle classes, showing people hang gliding or ballooning. Molson is the beer that Bob and Doug McKenzie drink, and the type of beer that Canadians pound when they watch Canadian football’s Grey Cup, roughly the equivalent of the Super Bowl. In short, they are the Coors of Canadian beers.

Top picks of Canadian brews:
Best Beer: Calgary, O'Keefe, LaBatt’s, Skuller
Best Bottle: Brick, Upper Canada Lager, Moosehead, LaBatt’s Velvet Cream Porter
Most Unbeerlike: LaBatt’s Velvet Cream Porter
Worst Beer: Molson Golden
Biggest Surprise: Calgary, Glacier Bay (decent at a cost of $10/case!)the Budweiser. We were all a bit surprised by the uniform color of Canadian beer—with the exception of Calgary, Velvet Cream Porter, and Upper Canada Lager, all were nearly the same golden hue. Worse, they all have similar tastes, though some are more distinctive in their similarities than others. Between the five drinkers, we quickly ran out of adjectives and phrases to distinguish among the beers. If you have the opportunity to travel to Canada and sample a few beers, we recommend watching a hockey game with cold beer from cool places, eh?

Significant comments:

O'Keefe: Not too bitter, has a little body to it. “Standard Canadian beer, perfectly pleasant. I could enjoy this during a hockey game definitely.” —Devereux

Glacier Bay: Weak odor, sweet taste, bland. Not very exciting. A throw-it-down kind of beer. “I would rather drink something else during sports.” —Devereux

Molson Canadian: Strong, not offensively unpleasant odor. Taste dies in the mouth. "Foretaste, but no aftertaste.” “This would go well with watching a hockey game.” —Devereux

Calgary: Darker beer—excellent auburn color. Cinnamon taste, smooth all the way through. Not a party beer. A beer to sit around and enjoy the taste of. “This does not taste mass-produced. It has the small-town brewery taste.” —Devereux

Molson Export: Has flecks floating around in it. Otherwise, there is nothing noteworthy about it. Not a whole lot different from Bud, but “you’d get excited if you thought it was Canadian. I'll give it a C/A for taste/flecks.” —Scouten

LaBatt’s Blue: White-wine smell, tart taste vaguely reminiscent of pretzels. Heavily carbonated. Could be drunk with a meal or with nothing. “If you drink it, you know you've had a beer. I could sit and enjoy this.” —Scouten

Upper Canada Rebellion: At 6 percent alcohol, it is a malt liquor with a captivatingly bold, bitter taste. Better sipped over time, it is not an ideal complement to food. Best, it is named for an actual historical occurrence: In 1837, a group of angry citizens marched into Toronto under the pretext of rebelling against the colonial government, but, once in the city, they all went to a tavern and got drunk instead.

The rest of the American beer picks [The editors apologize for losing part of last week's article. The missing portion has been found and is reprinted here for your enjoyment. Sorry, Hutch!]

We found Sun Valley, purchased in San Francisco, to be a tremendous beer. Unfortunately, it is thought to be unavailable in North Carolina—hence the choice as “most tantalizing.” St. Stan’s also came from the West Coast.

Where to buy these beers: With these two exceptions, however, all of the beers discussed can be purchased locally. La’Mart Deli and Wines (3201 N Sharon Amity Road, between the intersections of Albemarle and Central) has all of them. Most are also available at Belk of South Park. The beers from Mexico and the Caribbean discussed in the first column are available at Natural Resources on Main Street.

Beer-tasting class: For those of you interested in international beer tasting, Brad Johnston, co-owner of Tryon Distributing Company, will teach an evening course on beers of the world. The course will be held from 7-9 pm on February 7 at Natural Resources. Brad’s presentation, which will include approximately 15 different international beers, is open to 15 people at a cost of $11. To sign up, call 892-9052 between the hours of 9-5 and leave a message. You must be at least 21 years old.

This column is written out of a concern that, in a quest for quantities of beer, people too often overlook the quality.

Favorite picks from last week’s selection of American beers:

Best: Sun Valley, August Schell Pilsner, Anchor Steam
Worst: Mickey’s Big Mouth Malt Liquor, Liberty Ale, Genesee 12 Horses Ale, Dixie
Most Unusual: August Schell Weiss
Most Disappointing: Liberty Ale
Least Pretentiously Packaged: Mickey’s Big Mouth Malt Liquor
Most Tantalizing: Sun Valley
Best Name: St. Stan’s Alt, Maui Lager

High end of the Canadian spectrum. Flavor is similar to Maraschino cherries. “Has the taste and bite of a sweet pickle.” —Scouten

Molson Golden: Sewer smell, gasoline taste. “This is really not very good beer.” —consensus

Old Vienna: Medium taste (like alcohol?) that goes all the way through. Maybe too bubbly.