THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

The Davidsonian:
TRENT STEVENS, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor
HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager

Archer's 24 Hour Towing

About three weeks ago a surge of fear shot through Davidson: a certain unknown man followed a Davidson female back to her dorm. This particular female was not physically harmed, but soon after the incident, campus police escorts increased considerably, only to fall again once the fear had been forgotten. Since most of the editorial board is male, we can never assume to imagine these fears. Columnist Sarah Carlson, however, knows the fear of receiving a threatening phone call from a potential rapist. And what she has said in her recent column concerning these threats needs to be printed again:

“I do not walk anywhere alone on this campus. My friends and I travel in pairs or use the escort service. As one of the founders of Davidson’s Rape Awareness Program, I have had enough friends cry as they told me in sobs of an attack to know better than to put myself in such an easily avoidable risky situation.”

There is an escort service available at any hour. There are campus police who do more than tow cars. Officers Ray Thrower, Rick Moore, and Emory McLaughlin will listen to anybody anytime about anything. Unless bike thefts and break-ins cease and unless lighting on campus increases, it is suggested that you use the campus police: use the force, so to speak. Davidson College is not a safe place, boys and girls. You’re not in Kansas anymore.

Apologies
The editorial board wishes to apologize to Bob Collins, Director of Facilities Planning, for suffering the brunt of Davidsonian furor over parking. Collins has nothing to do with parking. We neglected to double-check our facts. Chief of Police Ray Thrower is the appropriate administrator to whom towing gripes may be directed.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Thursday during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters
Police Aren't Bad Guys
To the Editors:

Early Tuesday morning, while the campus slept, a runaway youth from Huntersville prowled Davidson looking for things to take. He saw my mountain bike lying helplessly and vulnerably unlocked behind Belk Dorm. Remembering how far a walk it was to satellite parking, where he was camped, he stole my bike. He thought that he was pretty clever as he pedaled off into the darkness. However clever he may have been,he was no match for Davidson’s finest. I woke with a start on Tuesday morning and ran downstairs; I was unable to speak as I looked at the tread marks leading away from where my bike had been. After class, I reported the bicycle stolen, and finally understood why I needed to have it registered (the police need the serial number). Within twelve hours of my reporting the theft, the police officers on this campus had apprehended the youth and recovered my beloved bike, unscathed. Responding to a call about a youth on a golf cart (apparently my bike wasn’t good enough to get him to and from campus), the officers arrested the bike thief and cuffed him. They took him back to the Johnston Police Complex and gave him the third degree (I guess they did). Upon interrogation, the evil youth admitted stealing my bike, a car radio, and the golf cart (well, he said he was just borrowing the cart). The Davidson Police get a pretty bum rap. I know why, too, having collected $140 worth of parking fines in just the first month of school. However, Davidson is a changing place and the cops are just trying to keep up. These guys have recovered nine bikes already this year and they are taking the robbers to court. Basically, they are doing their jobs, which means ticketing illegally parked cars as well as sleuthing and catching criminals. The point is, don’t write them off as bad guys just because they are strict; they are also reasonable.

Sincerely,
MATTHEW M. GANT
October 21, 1990

Opinions From Afar

Davidsonian takes on new meaning when one lives beyond the Concord and Main intersection (i.e. Montpellier, France), so I’d just like to give a couple of opinions on Davidson events.

THE ALCOHOL ISSUE: Well, you guys are hating life. With the general age limit at sixteen, only pre-adolescents get carded here -- not like that matters since you drink wine or beer at every meal from diapers onward. In fact, both wine and beer are sometimes cheaper than water in France and Germany. So next time you poor little underage punks get humiliated trying to buy Schaefer, think of us in an ultra-cool sidewalk pub slamming ultra-cheap German brewskies.

THE PARKING PROBLEM: Whether the authorities that be are obsessed with towing or not, the fact that you guys have cars at all is a luxury. To buy gas here you would have to tap into Rusk’s size-of-a-third-world-nation’s budget, then learn how to drive like a schizo (especially in France). Only after clearing these hurdles would you try to find a parking space in some podunk thirteenth-century alley about two miles from where you actually want to go, not forgetting to lug your stereo with you afterwards. Of course, a $40 towing fine still sucks (for you).

PERSONAL HABITS: I’m sorry, but making an issue about one female with hairy legs is a joke. Really. Until you get on a bus or train where everyone is hairy and in addition stinks like three-day-old rolled cigarettes and stagnant body odor, you have no reason to complain.

So that’s wrap-up #1 from Wurzburg, where I’m on a ten-day vacation. By the way, I get another 20-25 days not including this, so ponder that while you try to relax over a piddly three-day Thanksgiving break.

Sincerely,
CHRIS CLARK '92
October 15, 1990