THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990 15

Football Wins Third Straight

Continued from Page 13
Milt Watson picked off a pass and took it back to the E&H 25, setting up Brett Boretti’s 12-yard TD
run, which gave the Wildcats a 14-9 cushion. But two possessions later the Wasps came back, scoring on a 9-yard
pass to take a 17-14 lead at the half.

Davidson began the second half strongly, but fumbled the ball away near midfield. E&H was looking to score again when
Mike Noonan intercepted a pass at the 6-yard line. He returned it three yards, and the ‘Cats started a drive
in which they marched all the way to the Wasps’ 1 but came away with nothing. The scoreless 3rd quarter
was no indication of what was to come, for in the wild final period the teams would combine for 3
touchdowns in the last 4 minutes.

Fassett capped Davidson’s first drive of the last period with a 28-yard field goal to tie the game at 17.
E&H responded with a field goal of their own with just under 10 minutes to play. The ‘Cats started again
at their own 35 and drove down for an apparent Howell touchdown, subsequently called back on a clipping penalty. They
had to settle for a 33-yard field goal attempt, which bounced off the upright and back onto the field.

The Wasps took over at their own 20, and that’s when the wildness began. After three ineffective plays, the Wasps
tried to punt, but the punt was low and the punter attempted to run with the ball. He was smothered
near the goal line and fumbled, and Linsey Mills pounced on the ball in the end zone for his second
defensive TD in as many games.

That gave the ‘Cats a very short-lived 24-20 lead. The Wasps returned the kickoff 94 yards for a touchdown; the
extra point gave E&H a 3-point lead.

The ensuing kickoff was returned to the Davidson 16. From there, the potent tandem of Wainwright and Howell, who combined
for 261 yards through the air, led the offense to the E&H 35, where Dan Lamar outraced the Wasps’ secondary
to haul in a Howell pass for the winning score.

First-year coach Dave Fagg and his team are off to a 3-1 start, and for the first time in a
long while Davidsonians are excited about their Wildcat football team. They’re tough, they’re talented, and most importantly, they believe in
themselves.

THE DOLLARS AND SENSE OF JOINING AIR FORCE ROTC.

Air Force ROTC makes a lot of sense for many reasons. Start with the dollars: the eligibility to apply for
scholarship programs that can help pay tuition, books, fees — even provide a $100 tax-free income each month.

There’s much more — you'll develop management skills and the ability to motivate others. Everything you learn will help you
every day of your life.

Start by contacting

CAPT ERIC SEAY
547-4537

+

The Grey College Union Concert Committee Proudly Presents:
