New recycling news! page 4

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 18

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, February 28, 1990

Students call for divestment from South Africa at Trustee reception

By SUSAN PEARSALL
In a bid to communicate with the college’s Board of Trustees on the issue of divestment from companies with ties
in South Africa, a group of close to 50 students participated in a “silent sit-in” last Thursday. The sign-carrying but
otherwise placid demonstrators greeted the Trustees at a catered reception in the lobby of Chambers and remained until the Trustees
and other guests of the college entered the Gallery for dinner.

The group also distributed a flier entitled “Divest Now!” which demanded “nothing less than the total divestment of Davidson College
from companies that continue to conduct business in South Africa.”

The demonstration was organized chiefly by freshman Heather McGarrah and sophomore Stephanie Lindemann, with the help of SGA president Tripp
Helms and Chaplain Chuck Hasty. It was intended to supplement Helms’ call for divestment that he presented at the Trustees’
winter meeting. He explained that the sizeable turnout for the sit-in “shows the Trustees that [divestment] is not just my
idea.” McGarrah expressed some regret that the lack of faculty participation was the result of the protest’s having been planned
in 48 hours, but was pleased with the number of student participants. The group was exceptionally diverse and included a
significant number of international students, African-Americans, and whites.

Some of the protestors met in front of Richardson before going to Chambers to distribute signs and to hear a
few words of encouragement from sophomore Clement Radebe, a South African native, and Helms. Radebe told the students, “I don’t
think that divestment will hurt black South Africans. They might lose a little money, but they don’t have much to
lose. The whites, who have everything, stand to lose much more.” Sophomore Marcus Geist agreed. “South Africans say that if
the U.S. divests completely, it’s still not going to be much worse [for black South Africans] than it is now.”
Sophomore Jay Kirtley saw himself as “giving my tacit approval to the apartheid system by attending this school. Instead of
transferring again, I’m doing my best to change this repugnant situation.”

After speaking with Niko Smith, a South African activist

See DIVEST, page 4

Bells prove false alarms

By JENNIFER WHITTINGTON

If you were confused by the alarm clock sounding buzzer which rang every hour in Chambers last week, you were
not alone.

According to the Dean of Academic Affairs’ office, turning on the buzzers, which signifies the beginning and end of classes,
was unintentional. Because of old wiring, a request from the Dana Science building for the implementation on that building resulted
in both signals being turned on. The physical plant was informed of the wiring glitch, and an absence of the
unpleasant alarms this week suggests that the problem has been corrected.

Inside

Last Thursday: someone turned loose a live opossum in Richardson. Meanwhile, while leaving Chambers late the same night, Jon Giles
and Missy Meegan happened upon a dead fox lying outside the center door. They contacted the Davidson police and Officer
Emory McLaurin made the call.

The following is taken directly from the incident report of that evening:

“After arriving in front of Chambers I found what was a small gray fox that looked like it had been
run over by a car and carried to the campus and placed on the front steps of the building. The
fox was lying on its side with its back to the base of the second column coming from the north
end of the building.”

Prank or Satan worship—you decide

By MARK D. PUCKETT

It was lying on what looked to be a satanic sign of some type. The sign was drawn with black
chalk or charcoal and was about 12 to 18 inches round. There also was a student in the lobby of
Chambers studying and she had been there for about 15 minutes before Jon and Missy came out, and she stated
she had not seen anyone outside or on the front steps.

Within the charcoal circle, a five-pointed star shape was drawn. The markings can still be seen outside the middle doors
of Chambers. Although many speculate that the fox represents a form of satanic ritual, Officer McLaurin says, “I hope it’s
just a sick joke and nothing else.”
