Wednesday, March 7, 1990  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Dana didn’t request bells

Dear Editors,

Who did request the “bells of Chambers” be turned on? The short article by Jennifer Whittington suggested that someone in the Dean of Academic Affairs Office laid the blame on a request from Dana Science Building. If this is true, it may well be the first request from Dana that ever got the attention of Chambers! However, I have twisted at least one arm of every resident of Dana and no one admits to requesting the bells be turned on. In fact, when I called to inquire who asked that they be activated, I was told that someone in the Registrar’s office made the request. Given that the bells in Dana rang every 15 minutes last Tuesday, I made a strong request to turn the *#%&@<:#* things off! If you find out who made the original request, please let me know who she (listen up Lucia!) is. We need a source of enzymes for next week’s biochemistry lab!

John H. Williamson  
Biology

Good work at Davidson

Dear Jennifer,

Amen to your editorial “Where the professors actually teach” (Feb. 7, 1990). As a Davidson graduate who has had an opportunity to see a lot of schools throughout the country, I have come more and more to appreciate the very personal relationship with professors at Davidson in addition to the small classes. Davidson provided a total educational experience for its students and I am glad to hear that is still true. The opportunity to visit faculty members in their homes as well as associate with them on campus was something that I took for granted while at Davidson but have come to appreciate just how much it meant to my educational experience. It is a shame that Davidson students do not have more of an opportunity to spend time on other campuses (other than party weekends) so that they can appreciate the unique opportunities available to all Davidson students.

Also, I would like to compliment you and Muadi as well as the entire staff on the quality of reporting in The Davidsonian. While your reporters are full-time students, it is obvious that they have spent a lot of time on their articles, particularly the ones that provide an in-depth view of a part of Davidson life. I found the “Inside Art” with writing samples from Davidson students and Dr. Abbott particularly appealing. Keep up the good work. I know you usually only hear from people when we are complaining.

Sincerely,  
Terry Holland  
Head Basketball Coach  
University of Virginia

Keep senior candids

Dear Editors,

It has come to some members of the Senior Class’ attention that a decision not to include candids in the 1989-90 yearbook has been made. Candids are something which give the yearbook a personal touch for each senior. Candids have been a tribute to the Senior class: forward to that special time when they can submit them. We realize that the reason the Quips and Cranks editors have decided not to include them is because often students submit photographs of poor taste. However, most seniors submit cherished photos which show a special time, place, friendship, or memory they have obtained while at Davidson. We feel that the Senior class should not be punished for the improper judgment of a few. For those students who submit “bad” taste pictures, the editors should ordain the right not to put such pictures in. But, more importantly is the fact that the yearbook is done for the students and not the editors. Candids are a tradition and something that should remain intact. After all, we could not have a yearbook if it were not for us students!

Sincerely,  
Heather Wright ‘90

We like single-sex eating, Lucia

Dear Editors,

I am writing to you in response to Lucia Kendall'smost recent article concerning single-sex eating houses. Once again her logic escapes me. After reading her article several times, I found several cases where she presents her side of an argument without thoroughly examining other perspectives. First, she states that there were at one point in time six co-ed eating houses on the Court. It seems obvious that Lucia feels that these types of houses are the most beneficial to the social development of an individual. However, has she ever stopped to think that she must be in a small minority in this respect? She states that “If one house folds because of lack of membership it seems fair to assume that there is something about that particular house that made it unpopular.” In this respect, I agree with her. But I would like to know if it ever occurred to Lucia that a particular type of house was unpopular and therefore all houses of that type closed due to lack of membership? If six of these co-ed eating houses have closed over the

‘CO-ED EATING, see page 12

Please do not take that privilege away

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, News Editor
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
Bruce Balestier, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Distinguish between sacred and spurious

Meeting high school seniors this past SGA Weekend reminded me of what it felt like to look at Davidson College from a fresh perspective. These students share none of the feelings of sacredness or cynicism that I associate with certain aspects of the school where I have just spent four of “the best years of my life.” If these prospectives choose to come here, they will learn. Yet I can’t help feeling that Davidson needs to be honest with such students from the start to guide in developing their views of this college. Admissions counselors here have an obligation to paint an accurate picture of the college they are trying to sell if they hope to recruit students who will flourish in the Davidson atmosphere. Honesty and trust reside at the core of one of this college’s most cherished traditions, its unique system of an honor code that really works. Davidson is one of the few colleges to enjoy self-scheduled exams. In order to establish and maintain this relationship between students, faculty and administrators, the system must be held sacred by all. We have agreed that benefits and freedoms that stem from honesty outweigh temptations to break the code.

Another “tradition” presented to prospectives, however, is the policy of self-selection. The college catalogue gleefully states: “Every house has the right to encourage freshmen orally to join, but discouragement is strictly forbidden, lack of encouragement does not in any way prohibit a person from selecting a house for dining, social and service activities.” Such oral encouragements (or O.E.’s) are blatant equivalents of formal bids. While the catalogue acknowledges that a fraternity has the option of not allowing a self-selected member to join the national organization, it does not point out that the one or two freshmen brave enough to select a frat without being formally asked to join never remain a member long enough to eat a meal there. The system of self-selection works extremely well with the women’s eating houses that have no national affiliation. But in terms of the fraternity selection process, Davidson is not significantly different from other schools with a bid system. I was glad to hear most students leveling with prospectives this past weekend about Davidson’s sacred traditions and its shams. But the need still exists for the administration to be honest. It is hard to buy into the full power of the honor code at a school that boasts a self-selection policy without enforcing it.

—jlh

Buckle Up For Spring Break ’90