THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Campus Living

Review / Theater

Hedda Gabler Spellbounds Audience

By HEATH HARDAGE

An eerie sense of foreboding and a palpable sense of tension filled the set of Hedda Gabler, the Davidson College Theatre Department’s Spring Production. On the nights of April 3 through April 7, theatergoers were held spellbound by the two-and-a-half-hour play performed in Hodson Hall. Director Alex Pinkston created a meticulously crafted presentation which consistently held the attention of the viewers.

Henrik Ibsen’s classic play of deceit and revenge focuses on the aristocratic Hedda Gabler Tesman (Sarah Robinson), who has just returned from her wedding trip. She is now the wife of the well-meaning but bumbling George Tesman (Buck Reese), holder of the scholarship for research in the History of Civilization. Hedda, once a belle and social leader, has apparently married Tesman because she had hoped that George would “be famous someday” for his academic prowess. Although George seems to be deeply in love with his young wife, the marriage is a loveless one on Hedda’s part.

Hedda is a cold-hearted manipulator whose character is very similar to the Marquise de Merteuil in Christopher Hampton’s play, Dangerous Liaisons. (Stephen Frear’s film of the same name with Glenn Close as the Marquise may illustrate a more recognizable parallel.) She lives in a perpetual state of boredom, which can only be relieved by playing with other people’s lives in a generally destructive manner.

When Hedda’s former “comrade” and “intimate friend”, Ejlert Lovborg, (Chuck Scofield), re-enters her sphere, Hedda’s new married life is called into question. She is obviously not happy, and Lovborg also is dissatisfied with his former muse, Thea Elvsted, (Alyssa Kendall). Scandal, Hedda’s worst fear, looms large when she is implicated in the murder/suicide of Lovborg by Judge Brack, (Brian Kosanovich). The Judge knows of her involvement in the affair, but he insinuates that all will be well if he is allowed to take certain liberties with Hedda. Hedda, who cannot bear to be under the power of any man, kills herself rather than be subject to the whims of Brack.

The major players in this production of Hedda Gabler were exceptionally well-cast. Robinson was perfectly cast as Hedda. She played her character with the delicious bitchiness inherent in Ibsen's anti-heroine. Her sarcastic facial expressions and languid gestures captured the cynicism of Hedda. Kendall played the part of Thea beautifully: her fluttery voice and nervous gestures were well-suited to the part. Thea’s fearfulness and mistrust of the dangerous Hedda was well-

Continued on Page 10

Student's Father Wins Date

By CURT BICKERS

Dr. George Flinn, a radiologist from Memphis, Tennessee, is the father of Davidson freshman Joanna Flinn. He recently won a date with Joan Rivers.

Flinn was performing amniocentesis on a patient in his office while the television was tuned to “The Joan Rivers Show.” During the show Rivers unveiled plans to “Get Joan a Honey”.

Dr. Flinn thought it would be funny to enter, so he submitted an entry. He sent a vial of red fluid with Joan’s picture inside with an enclosed note that said, “I’ve got Joan in my blood.” The contest judges liked his entry, and Dr. Flinn was invited to appear on Rivers’ show in a “Dating Game” format. He was bachelor number three. Flinn knew he had won when in response to Joan’s greeting, he said, “Hey, beautiful,” whereas the other two finalists only said, “Hello.” He won, beating out 10,000 other contestants in the nationwide contest.

Dr. Flinn and Ms. Rivers went on a filmed mock date in which they were chauffeured by a huge, scary man driving a Yugo. The two were flashed, then mugged while policemen stood and watched. That evening, the two enjoyed a real date along with the production crew at a very nice restaurant in New York City. Ms. Rivers enjoyed Dr. Flinn so much that she invited him and Joanna to Los Angeles for a party given by Ms. Rivers and her daughter on the week-

Dr. George Flinn, father of Joanna Flinn '93, withJoan Rivers With Celebrity Joan Rivers "linn of Joanna end of March 31. Dr. Flinn has received nationwide acclaim for this wacky contest. Articles of him and Ms. Rivers have appeared in The Star, The Globe, and other tabloid-type magazines. He has also been interviewed on several national morning news shows. But how does Flinn react to all of this publicity? He says he has had a lot of fun, but he just wants life to go back to normal.

Davidson Students Visit Dominican

By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

During Spring Break, senior D.J. Snell and several other Davidson students visited the Dominican Republic to help build churches. The Davidsonian interviewed Snell about his experience.

Davidsonian: Who organized the trip, and how was it planned?

Snell: In my hometown church, I heard about a church in the Dominican Republic that was trying to build an orphanage. As I later found out, there was not yet enough land on which to build the orphanage. However, Mark Johnson, a freshman at Davidson, and his father discovered that a hospital in the city needed a wall built. Everything we needed was taken care of except for our flight to the Dominican Republic.

Davidsonian: How did you raise the money to fly to the Dominican Republic?

Snell: First, we tried to get financial support from our local churches. The cost of the trip for each individual was $700. We also got corporate sponsors such as the Coca-Cola Company, and we received $200 from Grace Covenant Church.

Davidsonian: Who went on the trip?

Snell: There were eight Davidson students and also a Wake Forest student. We were led by the preacher from Grace Covenant and his wife.

Davidsonian: What was your typical day like?

Snell: Well, first we were staying at the Good News Camp. The guys slept in a room with bunks, and the girls slept in another room. We would get up at 6 a.m.; and since the water and electricity were unreliable, we were lucky if we could take showers. We would have an hour of quiet time and then eat breakfast around 8 a.m. We would work from about 9-12, take an hour break for lunch, and return to work from 2 p.m. until 5 p.m. In the evening, we would meet people from the community, sometimes visit local churches, and go to town for ice cream.

Davidsonian: What kind of work did you do?

Snell: Over the years, industry has developed across the street from the hospital because of a tax-free zone. A hospital needs peace and quiet for its patients, so the wall we built was largely for sound protection. We had a man who was familiar with building supervise our construction of the wall. When he passed by a worker (and this became a group joke), he would always say "mas mas"—meaning he wanted more cement. One day instead of working on the wall, we went into a community. We played games with the children, told them Bible stories, and sang songs. Probably our most dramatic memory was going to a leper colony. We only stayed about thirty minutes, and we handed out candy to the lepers.

Davidsonian: Did the group learn some Spanish before the trip?

Snell: We learned a few songs in Spanish before the trip, but we didn’t have much time because most people in the group were busy before spring break. Professor Pena, who teaches in the Spanish department, was nice enough to volunteer her time to help us learn some Spanish.

Davidsonian: How have you been changed by this experience?

Snell: Not to any great extent. There have been a lot of objections to missionaries, but I don’t think they are true today. Maybe in the past or even at the turn of the century these criticisms were true, but not now. I think we as missionaries were more missionized by the people we came to help.

See Opinions for related article by Joe Thomas Page 8

Photo Courtesy of D.J. Snell
These students helped a community in the Dominican Republic.