THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990

Men's Cross-Country Runners Move Swiftly In Tournament
By PETER HURTADO

Led by outstanding performances from juniors Ted Richardson and Chris Otrok, the men’s cross-country team tied for 4th in the Big South Conference Meet in Summerville, SC this past Saturday. In Davidson’s first ever Big South championship competition, the men made a strong showing and tied with Campbell, finishing behind Coastal Carolina, Baptist, and champion Radford.

Davidson’s squad saw its top two runners receive all-conference honors (by finishing in the top ten), and placed their top five among the first thirty runners. Though the team’s place in the Conference standings was a bit disappointing, there has been vast improvement in-depth from last year, and some excellent individual performances were turned in.

Davidson was paced by an outstanding performance by Ted Richardson, who placed 6th in a sensational time of 26:24 for 5 miles. Richardson’s steady improvement this season was obvious; his time dropped by 44 seconds from 4 weeks ago. Captain Chris Otrok finished close behind in 9th place, at 26:33. Both men were named to the Big South All-Conference Team. In addition, Richardson and Otrok now represent the tenth and eleventh fastest Davidson men ever at the 8k distance.

The Wildcat’s top five included Ian Stewart (27:13, 22nd), Pete Hurtado (27:19, 24th), and Richard Wharton (27:39, 28th). This depth, much improved in the last year, was not enough to give Davidson its first Championship. Close behind were Cam Dauler (27:54, 31st) and Shelton Bellew (28:24, 37th). The squad was without David Kerns, an early season frontrunner who sat out due to illness.

No team in recent years has been so strong and so deep, and Coach Gary Andrew has been pleased with the team’s development. With the Division I Regional Championship ahead in 2 weeks, the Wildcats are pleased with their achievements this season. The steady performances of Otrok, Richardson, Stewart, and Hurtado, in addition to the return of Kerns, bode well for next year. Senior John Moss also had an outstanding season. The immediate impact of freshmen Wharton, Dauler, and Bellew makes a run for next year’s conference championship a serious possibility.

Women's Cross-Country Beach, Marshall Shine In Big South Meet
By PETER HURTADO

In Davidson’s first appearance at the Big South Conference Championship this weekend in Summerville, S.C., the women’s cross-country team made a deep impression, placing 3rd in an 8 team field. The Wildcats finished just 7 points behind 2nd place Coastal Carolina, and 18 points behind champion Radford. Davidson placed 3 runners in the top eleven, and all seven in the top 31 finishers. The characteristic depth of this season’s squad could not win a championship, but with continued improvement they should surely challenge again next year.

Once again, the Lady Wildcats were led by their “1-2” punch of Kathy Beach and Karen Marshall. Beach placed 2nd in an outstanding time of 18:51. Marshall finished just behind in 3rd place (19:17). Both women were named to the All-Conference Team, and have had outstanding seasons. Heather Tarpley also ran well, placing eleventh (20:05). The strong squad then placed a string of runners, led by Senior Laurie Reams (21st, 20:53), Jean Reynolds (29th, 21:30), and the much improved Lisa Sitek (31st, 21:40). The strong performance of all seven women has been the team’s trademark, and Saturday’s race was no exception.

The presence of three strong freshmen, and the return of frontrunner Beach should make Davidson a contender again next year. Coach Gary Andrew was quite pleased with this weekend’s performance and, indeed, with the entire season. The women travel to the Division I Regional Championships in two weeks at Furman.

Ukrops Make It A Family Affair
By BRUCE PAGE

Athletics seem to come naturally to the Ukrop family. Rob and Jackie Ukrop are highly talented Davidson Wildcats, and their father almost became one; Bobby Ukrop was recruited for basketball in the 60s, leading to a standout career at Richmond. Rob, a junior striker on the soccer team, ranks seventh nationally in scoring and third in the Big South Conference. These numbers have made him an All-American candidate. His sister Jacqueline has been an important contributor to theField hockey team, and has helped them to an 11-1-2 record. The Wildcats are on track to finish with their best record ever. Rob first became interested in Davidson when his father and grandfather told him stories about his dad’s recruiting process here. Jackie chose Davidson after seeing the school during her brother’s freshman year. Their coaches have only good things to say about the pair. Even though Jacqueline took a year off from athletics to focus on the academic side of Davidson, her coach, Betsy Pryor, doesn’t feel she missed a thing. “She has come in and made a strong contribution right away," says Pryor. "She’s strong and upbeat and has an abundance of energy. She’s going for a goal every timeout. It’s a real tribute to her athletic ability that she has done so well after not playing last year.” Soccer coach Charlie Slagle voices similar sentiments about Rob, citing his contributions as a major factor in the soccer team’s surge to a national ranking earlier this season. “Our players look for Rob to score," says Slagle, "he’s the greatest scorer we’ve had at Davidson. He’s improved his skills to the point that I consider him a legitimate All-American candidate.” The Ukrops’ talent and attitude, and their impact on their respective teams is making them a most successful brother-sister combination in Davidson athletics.

Football
By MATT JOHNES

In front of a parents weekend crowd of nearly 3,000, the Wildcats pulled out yet another exciting come-from-behind win. The Wildcats defense forced seven Guilford fumbles, and recovered five of them. The Wildcat offense was led by Terry Hines’ 118 yards of rushing. The Quakers took the opening kickoff and lost two yards before fumbling the ball away on their own 22. Freshman sensation Richard Howell led the ‘Cats on a 5 play scoring drive, ending in a 15-yard TD run by Brett Boretti. Guilford drove inside the Davidson 20 on their next possession, and came away with a 34-yard field goal. Milt Watson’s open field tackle for a 7-yard loss ended the Quakers’ touchdown hopes on the drive. Davidson took the kickoff and was driving well when a pitch to Hines bounced off his facemask and into the arms of a Guilford defender. Guilford started from their own 24, and got off only one play before fumbling the ball back to Davidson. The Wildcats once more were looking to score when a Howell pass was picked off in the end zone. Once again, the Quakers were their own worst enemy. They had a first and ten near midfield but a fumble gave the ball back to Davidson in Guilford territory. The Wildcats moved down to the Quaker 20, where the field goal attempt was just wide to the left. Guilford took over and scored, making it 10-7 Guilford. The Wildcats began their last possession of the first half on their 34 and moved near half field, where they faced a 4th and 2 situation. A fake punt was attempted, but it narrowly failed. After taking over on downs, Guilford fumbled the ball away on the very next play. Another Fassett field goal attempt sailed wide left and the first half ended.

Bryn Robinson returned the second half kickoff to near midfield, and Davidson drove down to the Quaker 7, where Fassett kicked a field goal to tie the game at 10. Both teams then ran ineffective series and had to punt. Guilford approached midfield, but fumbled once again, and the ‘Cats took advantage of the good field position to drive for 48 yards and a score, ending in a Robinson t.d. Guilford didn’t fumble on their next drive. They drove from their 18 and scored on a long run. Davidson’s next drive ended in a field goal to make it 20-17. Guilford returned the kickoff to the 50 and began the game’s most important drive. With time ticking away in the fourth quarter, the Quakers moved all the way to the Davidson 5. They were facing a 4th and 4, and they elected to go for the winning t.d. instead of the tying field goal. Mike Noonan batted down the Guilford pass in the end zone to preserve the win. The ‘Cats are now 5-2 with a winning season guaranteed.