12

Thursday, February 22, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Stella: A movie well worth seeing

BY CURT BICKERS

In the tradition of “Ordinary People,” “Steel Magnolias” and “Airport ’77,” the movie “Stella,” starring Bette Midler, tries to delve into deep and meaningful interpersonal relationships. It offers an opportunity for overt and unnecessarily sentimental outbursts by the obviously “Harlequin Romance” target audience.

“Stella” might appeal to you if you enjoy the sight of Bette Midler’s rotund body swaying as she tries to dance seductively on a bar-top. (Remember, she is a professional. So kids, do not try this at home). The movie also might appeal to you if you enjoy sitting in the dark and weeping uncontrollably or if you just enjoy pelting those who do with black Jujufruits.

“Stella” is the story of a wise-cracking bartender who chooses the road less traveled. She decides to raise her daughter Jenny alone, with no help from Jenny’s wealthy father. Stella and Jenny share both good times and bad times. They struggle financially throughout the movie, but their love always appears to see them through.

As Jenny blossoms into adolescence, Stella makes the hardest decision of her life, which is to send Jenny to live with her rich father. Stella realizes that she cannot provide everything her daughter needs.

This decision leads, naturally, to an emotionally charged confrontation between the mother and daughter. Tears and beer bottles fly as Stella and Jenny try to reach an understanding.

Stella realizes that she has to let her daughter fly free and be her own special person.

Pardon me, but I have to run to the Union for more tissues. I’m back. That is much better.

Bette Midler is supported by John Goodman, playing against type as a fat, drunken slob who portrays Roseanne’s, oops, I mean Stella’s, loser soulmate.

Trini Alvarado, who plays Jenny, gives a performance that provides an inconsequential and brief relief to the unending hell of this movie. She does the best she can within the script that I envision being written in crayon on a cocktail napkin.

The third member of this monumental acting triumvirate, Midler, displays the subtlety usually reserved for warthogs and runaway locomotives. She might have been a more sympathetic character had it not been for her incredibly blatant attempts at manipulating her audience into spasms of tears.

Bette Midler seems to have decided that movies like “Down and Out in Beverly Hills” were not suited to her talents. Instead, she has chosen to make movies like “Beaches” and “Stella” in which she tries to “tug at the heartstrings.” Really, Bette, you play the buffoon much better than the tragic, yet plump heroine.

So if you have $5.50 to throw down the drain and two hours during which you would permit yourself to be subjected to this type of torture, maybe “Stella” is a flick you should try to see.

If you really want to go to the movies, see “Driving Miss Daisy,” or “Flashback.”

If you want to blubber, Stella is the movie for you.

MINT, from page 9

spurring free-association in the mind of the viewer (“Terror of Earrings,” 1987 and “Rites,” 1986). The process of digging away at the psyche in an attempt to uncover basic truths is echoed in his painting style, a style not unlike that of Herb Jackson. Similarly, artist Alan Scarritt paints images that resemble partly erased words on a blackboard, spurring a stream of free-associations.

Although one may be discouraged by the overwhelming apathy of the postwar era, the works in “Contemporary Icons and Explorations” suggest an optimistic outlook. Running through all of these works is an attempt to locate some source of spirituality that will save us from becoming mere cogs in the potentially self-destructive machine of capitalist consumerism. “Contemporary Icons and Explorations” is a disturbing show with an underlying mood of hope that promises to be thought-provoking and make a lasting impression for visitors.

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN ADVERTISING?

The Davidsonian is looking for a few good people...

Past advertising personnel have raved, saying "The pay is great and the hours are flexible...it's a job you just can't pass up!"

If you are interested in utilizing your marketing, design, layout, or billing talents, then be sure not to miss The Davidsonian Advertising Meeting on Monday, Feb. 26, 1990 at 7:30 pm. The meeting will be held in The Davidsonian offices, located on the south wing of the third floor of the Student Union.