THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

Davidson and the World: The Middle East Crisis

Courtesy of College Relations

Davidson College’s Tom Norwood has had a closer look at the Iraqi crisis than anyone else at the college. Immediately
after Iraq invaded Kuwait in early August, Norwood reported for Air Force reserve duty as pilot of a KC-10 refueling
jet tanker. For two weeks the college’s director of corporate giving and his crew flew missions over the eastern Atlantic
and Mediterranean oceans, carrying up to 60,000 gallons of fuel for air-to-air refueling of jet fighters traveling from America to
Saudi Arabia. Norwood landed cargo once in Saudi Arabia and spent a few hours on the ground there, but flew
most of his missions from American bases elsewhere. He was surprised by the immense stretches of sand in the area
and confirmed that the weather on the ground is very hot.

The crew stayed aloft for as long as 24 hours at a stretch, fueling fighters and receiving fuel from other
tankers. The work could be tricky, he said. “Air-to-air fueling is always challenging. Then you do it at night and
throw in a little weather... There were also lots of airplanes in a close space.” Because tankers are basically flying
gas tanks, they are extremely vulnerable to hostile fire. “We don’t even carry parachutes because we wouldn’t need them,” he
said. “But because of what we do, the Air Force keeps us out of range of enemy missiles.”

When the crisis broke, Norwood knew that his services would probably be needed. So he called his unit at Seymour-Johnson
Air Force Base in Goldsboro to volunteer, and they asked him to report that evening. He used his Davidson vacation
time to perform the duty. He said morale among the US troops he met was high, but that Vietnam veterans
like himself were more serious about the US mission and its possible consequences. Norwood flew C-141s toward the end of
that conflict, carrying injured and dead soldiers from Vietnam back to the states. “The main impression I got then was
the tremendous human cost of the war, however necessary it may be,” he said.

He was also impressed at how dangerous the current situation in the Middle East appears. “It really is a tinderbox,”
he said. “There is a tremendous amount of armaments there, and a lot of uncertainty about who’s doing what. Everyone
knew that if fighting broke out, it wasn’t going to be a field day like in Grenada and Panama.” And
while he and other troops in training exercises habitually complain about carrying bulky and heavy chemical protection suits, Norwood said
people on the way to Saudi Arabia were happy to have them.

Though he’s home now, if war breaks out Norwood expects to be called back to duty. He said he appreciates
the support and concern the community showed toward his wife and family while he was away and will need it
even more if he is called back to duty. He is a 1970 Davidson graduate who learned to fly during
his senior year at college, trading work hours at the old Brockenborough Airport near Metrolina Fairgrounds for flying lessons. He
got his Air Force wings in 1972 and is currently a captain with the 77th Air Refueling group.

Activating Military Reserves Could Affect Up To 187,000 Collegians

College Press Service

As many as 187,000 college students across the country had their fall term plans cast into doubt Aug. 22, when
President George Bush said he would soon call up military reservists to support and replace troops already sent to the
Middle East. If and when the call comes, the students would have to leave school abruptly, sometimes unsure if they
will have a place when they return or if the tuition money they paid will be wasted. “I don’t know
what frame of mind I’ll be in for my studies,” said...Junior Waldron, an Army reservist who is a sophomore engineering
major at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York. No one knows exactly how many of the reservists subject to being
called to active duty are college students. Joe Hanley, spokesman for the U.S. Army reserves, estimated that 61 percent of
his group’s 579,000 members are full- or part-time college students. The other branches of the military do not keep figures
on how many of their reservists are students. Colleges themselves typically don’t know how many of their students are subject
to the military call-up. To find out, Drexel University in Pennsylvania set up a hotline Aug. 23 for any students
or staff who could be affected by the Middle East crisis, but received just four calls—only one from a student
reservist—during its first week of operation, reported Vice President for Student Affairs Richard Woodring.

When Iraq invaded Kuwait, its small but oil-rich neighbor, on Aug. 2, life became uncertain for both students and their
schools. Soon after, President Bush sent 40,000 U.S. troops to Saudi Arabia to defend against a possible Iraqi invasion of
that country. Originally, Pentagon officials thought only 100,000 soldiers would be needed, but raised the figure to 250,000 a week
later. On Aug. 22, Bush said he would activate 40,000 reservists to support and replace the troops he had already
sent to the Persian Gulf region. It was the first time reservists had been called to active duty since the
Tet Offensive in Vietnam in 1968.

Suddenly campuses were forced to ponder a significant number of students and staffers leaving mid-semester to serve. Course sections could
lose their instructors. School finances could be disrupted if fewer students were around to pay tuition and dorm fees. Students
themselves could have their studies interrupted, without a guarantee of being able to resume them when they return to civilian
life. Although there is a federal law that protects the jobs of workers who are called to duty, there is
no law protecting students, Hanley said.

To ease uncertainty among student reservists, Purdue University published a detailed letter assuring students they would get their fees refunded
and earn a certain amount of credit, depending on when they withdraw. “The department of personnel services was getting a
lot of calls, and student services was getting calls as well,” said Tim Newton, an editor for Purdue’s news service.
Newton said the school didn’t know how many of its students are reservists. “I think it’s a pretty small percentage,”
Newton said. “At this point we don’t know.”

Whatever the number, the financial impact on campuses probably would be minimal, added John Huie, Purdue’s Vice President for state
relations. If students were missing from school when the state surveys the campus to determine its appropriation, “it could potentially
have a modest impact” on state funding. However, Huie added, “any change in enrollment doesn’t show up, (in terms of
funding), for two years. We’re not talking about a sufficient number of students to cause funding problems.”

Smaller schools said they will deal with the situation on a case-by-case basis. “If any (students) were called up, we
would do all we could to make their re-entry after serving as easy as possible,” said Edward Macias, provost at
Washington University in Missouri.

Meanwhile, the student reservists and their families try to prepare for what may lie ahead. Andy Wilson, a senior political
science major at Purdue and a student reservist, “wouldn’t hesitate at all if a call went out.” However, while Wilson
would have no regrets about leaving school, he admitted it would be hard to leave Kathleen, his wife of a
month and a half. Being married “doesn’t make it any easier,” Wilson said.

Rensselaer’s Waldron joined the Army Reserves “more to pay for college” than to fight a war. When he enlisted, he
didn’t think he might be sent to battle. However, Dean of Students Eddie Knowles assured Waldron he would get an
automatic leave of absence if he is called to active duty in the middle of the semester. “If I get
called, I can just pick up where I left off,” Waldron said.
