2

Cruz gives the insider view on Nicaragua’s elections
By MARK PUCKETT

In light of the recent elections in Nicaragua, Arturo Cruz, Jr. delivered a fast-paced, impassioned oratory of concern about his
country last night as part of the events for Central America Week. Cruz is the son of Arturo Cruz, a
former presidential candidate in the 1984 Nicaraguan elections who also served as a former ambassador to Washington before quitting the
Nicaraguan government.

When he began speaking, he stated, “I cannot use the notes I had planned to use... so much has changed
because of the election.” On Monday, February 27, in Managua, Violetta Chamorro “captured Nicaragua’s presidency in a historic rejection of
a leftist revolutionary movement that seized power by force of arms [Sandinistas],” according to yesterday’s Charlotte Observer.

Cruz addressed the situation: “Ortega had his militants. He had resources of state. He even knew everything going on in
the city. And the opposition to him was pathetic. But there were two great problems he didn’t think about—Violetta and
the people.”

Cruz predicted Chamorro’s win, but days before the election New York Times columnist Tom Wicker questioned this view saying, “Few
observers and not many more Nicaraguans agree [with Cruz].” Cruz said, chuckling, “Violetta is a woman with a broken leg
incapable of making a coherent sentence—and she won. She is a symbol of Nicaraguan tradition because of her strong family,
not a rock and roll star like Ortega.”

Rock and roll star? Cruz alluded to Ortega in this way for the following reason: “The Sandinistas were popular in
Hollywood, not in Managua. Ortega all of a sudden becomes a cowboy, just like Reagan with a horse and hat.
He starts appearing on the cover of People—a cowboy, a rock and roll star. He corrupted the ideology of the
Sandinistas because he realized how he could control without ideology.

“Right now, though, after the election, Ortega is the loneliest man in Nicaragua; Humberto [his brother] won’t even talk to
him. But after the election, Ortega visited Chamorro and the first thing he said when he saw her was, ‘I
love you’ and, you know what she said?—'I love you.’”

Nicaragua continually faces mounting economic woes and ever-present war, but perhaps Chamorro can offer a temporary panacea. In Wicker’s editorial,
Cruz translates Chamorro’s word to the people: “We are fed up with Sandinistas, contras, and the war.”

When asked about future monetary support, Cruz said, “Financial aid is not the answer; we use it for consumption—I know;
I have seen it. What we must concentrate on is getting human capital back to Nicaragua. This means getting displaced
persons from Honduras and Costa Rica back into the country.”

Cruz received his A.B. from American University and a further degree from Johns Hopkins. He writes occasionally for the New
Republic.

Wednesday, February 28, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

By JAY J. CHAUDHURI

The Guatemalan government has long been famous as one of the worst violators of human rights. According to some human
rights groups, some 100,000 civilians were killed and 38,000 people were “disappeared” by the Guatemalan military and paramilitary groups between
1966-1986.

Omar Estrada, a Central American refugee, spoke on his experiences in Guatemala last Monday. Estrada, a leader of a student
organization in his high school, fled Guatemala in 1982 following government persecution. Estrada’s participation as a student leader included protesting
against government repression. “Guatemalans cannot live like humans,” he said.

Estrada recounted how the army threatened to kill him and his younger sister with clubs. Although neither of them were
hurt, his sister still experiences fear and cries when she sees a policeman. After nearly being kidnapped, Estrada fled to
Mexico.

The present Guatemalan government is supported by the United States. According to Estrada, this government “is not a democracy; in
reality it is a military dictatorship.” President Venicio Cerezo has accused those against him, such as Estrada, of being Communists.
Cerezo said God put him there so he could destroy all communists, stated Estrada.

Currently, there are 60,000 Central Americans in the United States of which 10,000 are Guatemalans. Estrada is now living with
his family in Greensboro, North Carolina. He has resided in the United States for three years.

Bernal says invasion of Panama is not the answer
By TRACY GAINES

For a few weeks at the end of last year, many people worried about sons going off to what could
have developed into a war between Panama and the United States. Since the U.S. sent 2000 troops to that area
(for the primary purpose of extraditing Manuel Noriega), in addition to the military force already being maintained there, American troops
quickly subdued any forces conspiring to counteract its purpose.

This military invasion reflects to a large extent the continuing saga of military forces in Panama, and is in part
what spurred Miguel Bernal to speak on the topic of “Demilitarization of Panama: A Necessity” to an audience of Davidson
staff, students and community members last week in the 900 room. Yet, for the most part, he spoke on a
topic which has been based in almost a century of controversial relations (not just the last three months, as Bernal
pointed out) between the United States and Panama, and on the need for those respective populations to redefine what the
environment surrounding the Panama Canal should be.Days Bernal will be going home to Panama for the first time since October
1987 after having been exiled by Manuel Noriega and his government for drumming up personal protest against the illicit and
brutal practices of that government. He warned, however, against the flawed perception that strife, conflict, and corrupt leadership have come
to an end in that small Central American country. He speculated even further, saying that despite the removal of one
dark spot from the Panamanian historical record, there are many more which need to be wiped away.

The United States continues to be extremely concerned with the protection of the Panama Canal Zone, but it is undue
concern, according to Bernal, because “no one Panamanian (except for Torrijos and Noriega) has ever threatened the Canal.” Bernal wonders
what the purpose is of maintaining an expansive military force if there has only been the remote possibility of harm
coming to the Canal Zone. The sense of this is that these two countries have actually used the over-protection of
the Canal as an excuse, and in Panama’s case, “the military uses the country for its own purposes,” which makes
Panama, in his own words, “an army with a country, and not the other way around.”

Panama, however, is not the only guilty party in this equation. Bernal went even further to say the conjectures continue
in Panama with the U.S. promising reparation in the form of military and economic aid, which he says will only
go to the government and basically “preserve business at the expense of the economy and the nation itself.” All this
is considered while the people are overwhelmed by ultra-impoverished conditions and have no jobs. Now many Panamanians are homeless and
many buildings which once housed corporations and employment opportunities, no matter how small, have been destroyed. But Bernal suggested that
the money and renewal are perhaps going to a new military installation in Panama.

From Bernal’s point of view, militarization is the basis for most of Panama’s difficulties because the tradition of an ongoing
military presence in Panama has led invariably to confusion, fear among the people, and outright control of interests which need
not be so guarded. Here are some points which Bernal made showing the direction of priorities, political and militaristic, of
Panama since 1903:
- From 1903 to 1953, the political nature of the military had been well-established.
- During the period between 1959 and 1968, there was “a shift in emphasis from protection of the people to
defense.”
- From the time Noriega started the drug trafficking business in 1971, up until the invasion, Panama promoted “the most
illegal drug trade in the Western Hemisphere.” [And of course, as Bernal pointed out, Noriega was head of the military
in Panama.]

From these and other facts, he made the case that continued militarization can only hurt Panama. “Now that Ali Baba
is gone, what about the 40 thieves still left in Panama?” Bernal asked. The 40 thieves being the PDF and
the government that was controlled by Noriega, to whom he also alluded as “common criminals who want to maintain their
power.”

In Bernal’s concluding remarks during the question-and-answer session, he said that “other countries don’t care about what happens in Panama.
This recognition [of Panama’s rights] does not make Panama.” He added that, “it is interesting to see the hypocritical nature
of these governments since the governments decry the action,” but at the same time like to use the situation to
their own political and international advantage, and Panama does not need that. If this situation changes people’s opinions and removes
their fears in Panama, his conviction is that a new agenda will take precedence over any of the government's plans,
putting into effect “the priorities of the people—the end of the military regime and security.”
