THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER

Baseball
By BRUCE BALESTIER

Former Davidson shortstop Robert Eenhoorn capped his first season of pro baseball with a flourish last week when he was selected to the New York-Penn League All-Star team. The New York Yankees chose Eenhoorn in the second round of the June draft and assigned him to their Class A Oneonta, N.Y. affiliate. Eenhoorn played in 57 games as an infielder for Oneonta and batted .268 with 30 runs scored, 9 doubles, 3 triples, 2 home runs, and 18 runs batted in. He also stole 9 bases and committed just 9 errors. His efforts helped the Yankees to a 52-26 record and the league title.

Former Wildcat mound ace Greg Wilcox was a draft choice of the Toronto Blue Jays and spent the summer at Medicine Hat of the Pioneer League. In 13 appearances covering 36.1 innings, Wilcox was 2-2 with a 4.21 ERA and 49 strikeouts.

Television
Continued from Page 10

Spend more money on athletics. They deserve all the money and have lobbied to eliminate the automatic bids. The winner of the Big South now will play the winner of the Southwest Athletic Conference (SWAC) for the right to that automatic bid, a handy way of claiming a share of Tournament money. Most Division I schools generate revenue through football and basketball to fund the other sports in which they field teams. With the drop to Division III in football, though, Davidson can no longer make money through football. And if the basketball team is not rewarded for its success in the Big South with an NCAA Tournament bid and a piece of the TV pie, and cannot schedule big-name opponents (another looming possibility) for much-needed exposure, those other sports may well disappear.

How To Economically Maximize A Study Break:
1. Take a friend and this ad. Go to Norman Crossing Shopping Center at Exit 28 off I-77. Very close by.
2. Order any SUBWAY sandwich. You'll get a free 16 oz. drink. Satisfy hunger.
3. Take your receipt and your free play coupon below next door to HOT SHOT. Relax and play a few games.

Offer good thru October 31, 1990

Terry Holland: The Interview
Photo Courtesy Sports Information
By BRUCE BALESTIER

Davidsonian: With conference affiliation and football’s transition to Division III nearly complete, what lies ahead for Davidson athletics?

Holland: “First of all, we have to show that we can compete within the conference. The Big South is a league that has better basketball and all sports than most people realize, particularly basketball because that’s the one that’s so exposed today. It has not had that exposure because of the lack of television.... We’ve got to get ourselves to a competitive level to compete with those teams.

“I like the Big South for a lot of reasons. I like it geographically, which also helps us financially, but that’s not the critical factor for Davidson. The critical factor for us was not having to miss class to travel and that type of thing. It’s a very good location.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

in the fact that we now have an NCAA basketball bid and a lot of things really start to fall into place very quickly. "The real key, though, is can we compete? And the only way to put ourselves in a position to do that is to continue to improve our facilities and to look at the grant situation. What exactly are we going to have to do to be able to stay Division I in total. “So we’re going to be looking at those issues, and they’re primarily money issues.” What is Davidson’s niche? How much money should Davidson be spending on athletics? Our approach is that the college budgets a tremendous amount for athletics already, and what we’ve found is that we spend more than most Division I schools on a per-student basis, and the reason for that is because we don’t generate revenue. Division III programs quite often spend more than we do. But a Division I program has the chance to generate revenue, both through gate receipts as well as through fundraising. And while we’ve done a decent job in those areas, those are areas that we will have to improve. “We will try to solidify the basic support of the fundraising effort without siphoning money off of the Campaign. We’re looking for new money. We’re looking for people who have not given, who have a very specific interest in Davidson athletics. And the other end is promoting our athletics, that we charge admissions to generate enough revenue for Baker Sports Complex. "Belk Arena seats close to 6,000 people. With only 1400 students and a faculty of our size, we can give all of our students and faculty members tickets and still have as many tickets to sell as Duke, Virginia and a lot of other places. We just have not been able to put a product out on the court in recent years that people would necessarily want to come see, and haven’t done as good a job in promoting that product. So that’s really where we’re going to go.” 

To: Our Great Student Fans 
From: Coach Slagle and the Davidson Men's Soccer Team 
THANK YOU! See you at our next home game this SUNDAY VS. SOUTH ALABAMA 2 PM (Last season So. Alabama was 17-1-2!) 

See you at our next away game WEDNESDAY SEPT 19 AT DUKE 7 PM 

Piles Women vs Duke at SPA 

Good for 1 free 16 oz. drink with purchase of any sandwich 892-7628 

Good for 2 free plays value 50¢ 

Video Arcade 

Cool Breeze Cyclery Has a Full Selection of TREK, RALEIGH, And CANNONDALE Bikes — Also We Do Repairs on ALL Bikes 

Davidson Student Cruising to Class on a New Mountain Bike Purchased at the Cool Breeze Cyclery 

Prospective Sports Staff Members meet in The Davidsonian Office on Monday at 8:00 p.m. for article assignments. Call Bruce at x6217 or Tom at x6213 

"For All Your Bicycling Needs” 170 NORTH MAIN STREET MOORESVILLE, NC 28115 704-663-8812 6.5 MILES NORTH OF DAVIDSON ON RT. 115