2 The Commons is one of only two college food services being considered for the annual award, the other school being the culinary college Johnson & Wales in Rhode Island. Previous winners submitted their nominations to the magazine Restaurants and Institutions. The award results will be announced this month. The magazine will bestow the award during the National Restaurant Association show to be held in Chicago this May.

Commons draws national praise
Davidson nominated alongside culinary colleges for top dining service award
By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

The Vail Commons’ Dining Service was nominated as one of the top restaurants and food services in the nation for the prestigious Ivy Award.

Carleton Pritchard
Photo courtesy of College Relations

The Commons has never before been nominated for this highly acclaimed prize. Yet it annually holds seminars and training sessions for the food service industry. The Commons was also recently featured in the Restaurants and Institutions. Carleton Pritchard, Director of Auxiliary Services, said that the nomination “certainly makes us a leader in quality in the industry.” He also said that the nomination was “a recognition of team effort.” The Commons “team” includes 45 full-time employees and 120 students. Pritchard has led the dining service since it opened in 1981.

News shorts
Computer classroom in Chambers opens

Beyond Davidson
Thursday, January 18, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Soviet republics dissent; China ends martial law
By CAROL GATEWOOD and CAROLINE WILSON

SOVIET UNION AND EASTERN EUROPE
Actions against the governments of the Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact nations persisted last week as nationalist movements continued to work for independence and multi-party systems of government. Within the Soviet Union, President Mikhail Gorbachev must now deal with an increasingly unstable and violent situation in Azerbaijan. On Monday, Tass, the official Soviet news agency, reported that 25 to 30 people were killed in the Azerbaijani capital of Baku. Violence erupted after a protest when Azerbaijanis attacked Armenian citizens, shooting some at point-blank range. Tensions between these two ethnically and religiously different groups have grown in the past few months amidst calls by Muslim Azerbaijanis for secession from the Soviet Union and a dispute over rights of possession of Nagorno-Karabakh, the Armenian province of Azerbaijan. Soviet troops were sent in after the attacks. These events followed on the heels of Gorbachev's visit to Lithuania, a Baltic state that has already announced its plans to secede from the Soviet Union and the Soviet Communist Party. By visiting, Gorbachev hoped to peacefully discuss and resolve the Lithuanians’ desire to become an independent state. He held open discussions with citizens in the street, encouraging the Baltic states to retain its membership with Moscow.

In Romania, the new government is struggling over the future of its Communist Party. Their sister party in West Germany has offered support to their campaign. On the other end of the political spectrum, Franz Schoenhuber, the leader of the right-wing Republicans in West Germany, announced that his party will also pursue reunification as a platform issue. The former Sergeant of Hitler’s Waffen SS force also hopes to establish his party in East Germany so that it may participate in the May elections.

CHINA
After seven months of enforced restrictions on students, the Chinese government lifted martial law last week. U.S. President George Bush hailed this move as “a very sound step” in Chinese policy, but many members of Congress doubt this change indicates that China will soon move towards a democratic government. Representative William Broomfield of Michigan said that China has “shifted oppression from the military to the police.” Bush’s handling of the Tiananmen Square incident in June, which has become a bipartisan issue in the U.S., has led to much criticism from congressmen and the press. In China, only a few thousand people have been allowed to walk through Tiananmen Square and students say that life is more relaxed, but nothing has really changed. With the Asian Games scheduled to occur in September, the Chinese government does not want the people to break out again. “Leftist” groups have proposed to have Javier Perez de Cuellar, the Secretary General of the United Nations, mediate peace talks between the rebels.A recent addition of 20 IBM computers has been made to further integrate computers into the academic life at Davidson. The computers are housed in Chambers 337. The room will be reserved during the day for specific classes, then open to the general student body from 5-11 p.m. The computers will be linked to the campus-wide VAX computer network with software and printing resources, but the facility’s greatest use comes from the way faculty members can use the computers to customize their teaching methods. With the increased access to computers, more faculty members plan to incorporate them directly into their instruction. The new room’s benefits also include having an increased number of computers closer to the heart of the campus.

President Ion Iliescu reversed a decree made last week that outlawed the party and announced that a national referendum will be held January 28 to decide its fate. In neighboring Bulgaria, 50,000 anti-Communist protestors filled the capital streets of Sofia and called for legislative elections and for the removal of communist power in the army and the workplace. The ensuing downfall of communism in Bulgaria may indicate that uprisings and protests will soon break out in Albania, the last Stalinist state in Eastern Europe.

Improved relations between East and West Germany have brought unique developments in the domestic political arena of both countries. The Social Democrats, now the largest political opposition group in East Germany, announced last week that if they win the national elections in May they will immediately open reunification talks.

After ten years of war in El Salvador, negotiations were held in late 1989 but broken off in November. The war has aggravated social divisions that caused the war and many people are now tired of the bloodshed. In response to the November 16, 1989, murdering of six Jesuit priests on a university campus in San Salvador, President Cristiani on Saturday ordered the arrest of nine military officers. Cristiani has been hailed for bringing to justice those believed to have been involved in the killings and for ending the immunity of the military to prosecution. With tension rising in the military and the government, the first rumors of a coup in Cristiani’s eight and a half month rule have begun spreading. The colonel arrested in connection with the priests was trained by the United States, but the U.S. denies any knowledge of his actions.

How are agricultural policies linked to economic development in Third World countries? Gretchen Hall, Education Director of the Trade and Development Program, plans to address this issue, as well as the status of U.S. agriculture, next week during her visit to Davidson. Hall will speak Monday at 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. The Dean Rusk program is sponsoring the event, which was funded by a grant from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation.

If cable were installed, it would be an added bonus, but it would be a huge financial undertaking. Cable would be installed in the dorm lounges and the court houses. The court houses would be expected to pay the monthly fee. Although Geer mentioned some requests to install cable at the senior apartments, Terry remains hesitant for several reasons. He is not sure that making the apartments a more desirable place while remaining at the same cost is feasible. In addition, the Dean of Students’ office and residence life office have expressed a concern that if cable were provided, students may tend toward more asocial behavior. Terry said that he will make recommendations of needed housing improvements such as lighting renovation and “perhaps” air conditioning in Duke, in addition to the cable proposal. The final decisions, however, will be made by members of the administration, namely the Vice President for Financial Affairs, the Dean’s Office, and the Comptroller.