THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Photo Courtesy of College Relations

The Renaissance Ensemble performed at Lingle Chapel this past Sunday, April 8.

Environmental Action Group to Sponsor Earth Week
Group Has Shed "Granola Bar Image"

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

An assortment of students, motivated by a genuine concern for the decaying condition of the environment, have revived an action-oriented organization and consolidated their energies into the Environmental Action Group. In addition to sponsoring Earth Week '90, the group has adopted a stream in Huntersville and a four-mile stretch of highway I-77 which they maintain free from pollution, as well as working with Patterson Court and the Dining Services on the use of recyclable materials.

The group’s genesis can be traced back to the Spring semester of '89 when concerned students rallied around Environmental Action Week and presented exhibits and speakers. Once the week had reached a conclusion, however, the group seemed to have lost impetus and floundered.

Although the group intimates a global concern for the environment, their efforts are centered around the immediate area. This pragmatic approach accompanies a set of well-defined goals and an experienced environmentalist to ensure the success of the enterprise. Gerald Hutchinson of the Davidson Outdoors Program serves as advisor for the self-funded group and believes that “narrowing the scope of the group” and keeping the goals as “specific as possible” will prevent the group from dissolving again. Hutchinson’s experience and insight with environmental issues steer the group’s enthusiasm in the right direction. To better authenticate their efforts, the group has aligned itself with the Greenpeace organization and with the North Carolina Coastal Federation in a spirit of cooperation.

The turn of worldly events has swung global attention to the condition of the environment and has planted the seeds of awareness in the minds of individuals. The Environmental Action Group, therefore, views their mission as not promoting awareness as much as “promoting environmental action,” said Hutchinson. Group member Derrick Willard '91 stresses “the importance of individual action” and believes that the group can help people recognize that “they can make a difference.”

The exuberance of its members coupled with the informal demeanor of the group has attracted a significant number of concerned individuals. One such member, junior Tina Laidlaw, contributes her experiences to the group from environmental issues she observed while studying in France. She hopes Davidson students will adopt new habits that are compatible with the environment and “foster those habits” long after they depart. Although Jenny McDonald ’91 realizes that she cannot “make people care,” she hopes to help Davidson become “an environmentally sound community.”

Hutchinson and Willard both share an optimism regarding the support the community will lend the group. “By maintaining a non-threatening approach to environmental issues,” said Hutchinson, “we hope to solicit the cooperation of the whole Davidson community.” Willard also believes an “activist approach is not needed,” and believes environmental groups in general have shed their “granola bar image.”

This year’s week-long events will commence on the 16th of April and will consist of movies, speakers, and panel discussions.

The Davidsonian reminds you to recycle.

Southern Women Myths Answered
Panel Discussion Led by McMillan

By RAMI EL-AMINE

If you did not already know: that classic movie, Gone with the Wind, epitomizes, oddly enough, the myths still associated with women today. In a panel discussion led by history professor Sally McMillen, who has just published Motherhood in the Old South, seniors Kelly Cruise and Sarah Johnson, assistant Chaplain and Director of Love and Learning Brenda Tapia, and sophomore Michelle Blake gave their views on such myths.

McMillen asked, “Considering Southern women are often depicted as flirtatious, submissive, ornamental, dependent and even manipulative and Southern black women are often seen as assertive, hard-working, pragmatic, dependable and even aggressive, how much truth is there in these myths today? and Why do they exist?”

Tapia said that “there is a bit of truth in these myths.” She went on to say that for socioeconomic reasons, black women have often had to go out and be the breadwinners and caretakers of the family.

Sarah Johnson, commenting that she is the granddaughter of a plantation owner, said the comparison of a southern woman with a steel magnolia has often been talked about in her family. Johnson says southern women “have a persuasive character which they use to make a statement. They are non-confrontational, religious, and worried about outward presentation.”

Along the same lines of outward presentation, Cruise said, “Southern women have political opinions but they will tell you that they are not political.” One woman she (and Johnson) interviewed to get a better idea of what southern women are like said that she writes to her congressman but she is not political. Cruise added that southern women have a tendency to ask questions about family and discuss family-related subjects.

In response to one author’s quote, “Everybody knows the South is a matriarchy and the women are in control. The idea...”"That men are in control is just a myth everybody agrees to pretend to,” McMillen asked. “How accurately does this portray southern black and white women? Does this concept of matriarchy—whether accurate or not—which concentrates so much on private and domestic natures—interfere with women’s equality in the public sphere?”

Johnson responded, “My mother says she has the best of both worlds; she can stand on the pedestal and have control at the same time. Southern women who feel this way are wrong because they tend to defer major decisions to the men. She is fooling herself by thinking this.”

Tapia said, with respect to the black family, “It is both male and female dominated. This is a result of the institution of slavery where, because of the different relationship the slave owner had with the male slaves than with the female slaves, women were able to be more assertive in protection of their male brothers and children. Later on, the economy forced black men to become the providers for the family.” Tapia’s own experience is patriarchal; however, there was no real separation of roles between the men and women in her family.

Blake added that “the dominance stays within the home.” She went on to say that the southern black woman seems to be more vocal.

McMillen’s third question asked the panelists whether they felt it was hard for black and white women in the South to really understand one another, and if it was, can you explain why? Tapia felt there were barriers which “stem from the southern white women’s notion of superiority. However, they are not conscious they are functioning in that manner.” She said that southern white women tend to talk down to her because of this notion of superiority. Blake felt there were no gender barriers, but there were barriers when it came down to ethnicity. Her first concern is her black heritage, then comes gender.

McMillen’s final question was whether the panelists felt that southern women on a whole were changing? If yes, then how? Johnson agreed, “Things are changing but not as much as other parts of the country. They have more options but they still see their primary role as being in the home.” Tapia added that “the ERA contributed to this change by waking southern women up to be more assertive. The current economic situation has forced them to enter the workforce. Things in society are forcing us to change.”

McMillen ended the panel discussion with a word to the wise on the status of women everywhere. She said to “think of women as individuals because that is what we all are.”

By JAY CLUGSTON

We produce too much trash! Americans view newer, more convenient, more sanitary, and more disposable products as better and more necessary ones. These beliefs have created America’s disposable society, where “more than half the cities in America will exhaust their current landfills by 1990” (Earth Works Group, 50 Simple Things You Can Do to Save the Earth, p.16). Space for new landfills is available outside of many of these cities, but the people populating these areas do not want to live with someone else’s garbage, regardless of the revenue it might bring their region.

Meanwhile, we produce trash at an increasing rate. Since 1960, garbage from product packaging has increased 200% (p.16). “Other industrial countries produce half as much trash per person as we do, and recycle a major portion of it.... The cheapest and safest ways to deal with trash are those that make common sense: producing less waste and recycling more” (p.16).

Here are ten trash-saving ideas:
1. Choose the Commons over the Cafe. Almost everything bought in the Cafe requires you to throw something away (plates, plastic silverware, packaging, bottle tops, etc.).
2. Take only what you need when eating at your House or in the Commons (especially when grabbing napkins, syrup packs, butter, etc.).
3. Limit (better yet, obliterate) your use of disposable cups. This means styrofoam cups in the Cafe and Commons, and plastic and paper cups at the Court. Don’t take out (steal?) cereal from the Commons if it requires you to put it in a styrofoam cup. If you fear ice cream meltage, wait until you're ready to eat it, and then go up to the line and get it in a glass. Don’t get a styrofoam cup for water in the Cafe. Instead, use the Union's water fountains or bring your own cup.
4. Take class notes on both sides of the paper.
5. Xerox only what is necessary.
6. Return clothes hangers to the Laundry.
7. Decrease fast food consumption (this will save packaging, as well as the gas it took to get there).
8. Try to buy fewer disposable products such as razors, pens, and cameras.
9. Recycle all you can, even if this requires carrying recyclables over to the Union or your dorm.
10. BE AWARE of the trash you produce. Is it all necessary? Are there ways you could decrease it?

Remember, don't throw it all away, a friendly reminder from the D.C. Recycling Committee.