Commentaries
The Davidsonian
Wednesday, February 7, 1990
13

Religion: A new place for old dirt
Joe Thomas

I discovered a peculiar thing about human nature the other day. Strangely enough, I learned it managing a fraternity house.
Let me see if I can explain...

Once or twice a week we all gather together with as many men, women, and freshmen as possible and celebrate
at our fraternity. During the celebrating, we move a lot of dirt around, shake the walls a bit, and generally
make quite a mess. Then, the guys usually go home and go to bed and wait for me to call
them early in the morning. We then gather together again in smaller numbers (in much less of a celebratory mood)
and rearrange the dirt so that it’s less noticeable. It’s really quite tricky, but we have mastered spending an hour
to an hour and a half picking dirt up from one place and gently (due to hangovers), quietly, moving it
to another spot to prepare for our next celebration. It is really quite ingenious because, for minimal effort, we can
maintain a house and throw as many parties as we like. Rarely does anyone consider the house. I think it
even has a peculiar appeal; after all, people can return week after week and see the same dirt they saw
the week before, only they have the novelty of seeing it in a different light, so to speak. Not very
much about it changes.

In the simplest sense, I think that we as people are very similar to my fraternity house. We spend a
great deal of time in the emotional and spiritual “party” of this world, never ceasing in our zeal to experience
the thrill of the moment, the fast pace of pleasure. In the quiet of our hearts, in odd moments, we
become acutely aware of our shortcomings, the telltale dirt of our lives. I say in odd moments because it’s usually
not accompanied by a trumpet blast or the descending of a gavel to strike a judge’s bench. It is something
more akin to a tear in the eyes of a friend we’ve hurt or failed somehow, or the sudden realization
that we’ve looked out for ourselves first and been alarmingly, quite “normally”...selfish. Yet, I believe that each of us knows
we ought not to be that way (however dim or strong that feeling may be), and that is why we
are so surprised at ourselves, and often dismayed. At the end of our “parties,” our heart stands in the aftermath,
confused and dazed, and slightly empty and dirty. The phenomenon bears many cultural names (Darwin called it “Unsatisfied social instinct”),
but the simplest is guilty conscience. The dilemma deepens when our agendas and good intentions fail to allay the weight
of it because they so often fail. I think each of us can identify with the feeling of striving and
striving to do better the next time and seeing that nothing has really changed. That is why we can struggle
at Davidson to ease racial tensions, we can initiate programs, and educate people (as so many noble efforts do) and
still see persistent hatred, despite all our best intentions. It is why, at Davidson, we encounter the same social ills
of alcoholism, drug use, greed, selfishness, and ultimately despair that we do anywhere in the world. We are at a
level of education envied by most of the free world, but is there a wise man among us? It seems
that hearts remain the same. In the ultimate sense, there isn’t anything new under the sun, as each generation moves
dirt around and the ills of society recur again and again. It seems at an individual and societal level, we
need new hearts.

That is the message of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the man our school calls “the central fact of human
history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life.” For those who are broken-hearted by their own sin, there
is someone who is not under the sun, and who will bring the newness our hearts long for. As St.
Paul declared to the Corinthians--Therefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creation; the old has gone,
the new has come....we implore you on Christ's behalf: Be reconciled to God. God made Him who had no sin
to be sin for us, so that in Him we might become the righteousness of God. Everything else, alas, is
merely moving dirt around, but as the prophet Isaiah foresaw almost 800 years before Christ's death: Surely he took up
our infirmities and carried our sorrows, yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by Him, and afflicted. But he
was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment which brought us peace was upon him.
And by his wounds, we are healed. We all, like sheep, have gone astray, each of us has turned to
his own way; and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all....(Isaiah 53:4-6). For that reason, I
feel safe in saying God is able and willing to cleanse the dirt from our hearts.Lives, and because of that,
there is truly hope for a new beginning and the house we call our lives. Joe Thomas is a senior
biology major from Morristown, NJ: We need to “blur” our sense of racial identity - Clay Adams.

There is only one way to end racism, and that is to end racial isolation and segregation. Spelled out, this
means that the yellow, white, brown, and black people who share this planet must no longer think that there is
any ultimate value in being the member of a particular race, independent of the others. An idealistic, unreasonable impossibility, you
may accuse me of having hope in, but I see no alternative. As long as we see ourselves as of
particular races that must cling together, we will always harbor the constrictive instincts toward segregation and racial insulation, creating gut-level
hostility that will never allow us to embrace each other.

I therefore make a call to members of all races to endeavor in a conscious effort to blur their sense
of racial identity. For example, whites, learn about African and Asian ideas and take in appeals to you and integrate
it into your lives, and then do the same with every other race. Blacks, do the same. Same, Yellow, Brown,
et al. Some of us will find that we adopt a whole group of ideas that change our lives in
ways we had never before considered. If everyone does this, then pretty soon (a couple of generations, maybe) individual racial
ideas will become obsolete as people incorporate ideas according to their personalities, their interests, in short, according to forces much
more constructive and positive than any limited by racial identity. Racial discrimination will become the exception.

The real movers and shakers, the cutting-edge leaders and changers will be the ones who find expressions for their personal
identity in a multitude of cultures and histories. These people will have resources that will propel them to new heights,
new powers based on their ability to move beyond the simple fact of their race. In the utopic ending to
this scenario, there will be so many interracial marriages and intra-cultural expressions that few people will have a single race’s
blood in their bodies, or a single race’s thoughts in their heads, but will have a patchwork racial lineage. We
will see characteristics of every race glorified through this process and the whole of the human race become stronger, more
sensitive, and more expressive.

At Davidson, we are blessed with students from approximately 30 different countries. We have men and women of many races
and racial mixtures. We also have some fantastic academic courses that reach past European influences and white American male history.
As Davidson cements itself in the highest circles of education, it must cultivate free-thinking students who embrace the complexity of
themselves and who have “selves” grounded in ideas that are more substantial than any racial identity. Clay Adams is a
junior English major from Atlanta, Ga.

A counseling job may be just what you need

Flake Sherrill

It’s not too early... It is not too early to start thinking about a summer job. Some of the best
opportunities for rewarding summer work need not be hard to find. Last year I found such a rewarding job that
I want to pass it on to all Davidson students. I worked as a counselor at Camp Sea Gull. Counselorship
offers many opportunities. It is a time to relax, a time to earn some money, and a time to make
numerous friends. However, these opportunities are not what makes being a counselor at Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer rewarding. Your campers are
what will make your Sea Gull/Seafarer experience memorable.

The experience you gain as a counselor at Sea Gull/Seafarer will augment your resume no matter what career you enter.
At Sea Gull/Seafarer you will learn how to make everyone feel important. You will learn how to turn a bad
experience into a good one. You will learn how to instill morals into an individual. You will learn how to
work with all personality types, shaping the good and attempting to eliminate the bad. These are skills that most summer
jobs cannot offer. These are skills much needed in the marketplace today. These are tools that will help anyone's career.

On February 14th, 1990, Camps Sea Gull and Seafarer will have two people from their administration on campus. Those individuals
are Tim Joyce and Sharon Payne. If you yearn to have a summer job that will be one of life’s
best experiences, then stop by the foyer of the student union anytime between 1 and 4 p.m. on the 14th.
If you cannot meet Tim or Sharon but are interested, then call or stop by Flake Sherrill (SNT-111, 896-6501). Also,
if you want to talk about counselors’ experiences at Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, then just stop and ask the following Davidson
students: Robert Marshall, Bailie Keiter, Steven Summers, Suzanne Spivey, Max Fisher, Sarah Nall, Gabie Vaughan, or Flake Sherrill. Robert Marshall
has worked at both Camp Sea Gull for boys and Camp Seafarer for girls. Flake Sherrill is a senior history
major from Statesville, N.C.
