Thursday, February 22, 1990  
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Be a real person Mark— and write a real column

Dear Mark Puckett,

It seems to me, Mark, that in bringing your body to its present state of near godlike perfection, you have neglected to create a column befitting an author of such Adonaisian, breathtaking physical attractiveness. Mark, you may be in great shape, but I think your column could use a little work.

Just because an unidentified and undoubtedly beautiful and athletic female of your acquaintance said that Davidson women are “homely” does not mean that all Davidson women are overweight and out of shape. And let’s not forget that many people who are in excellent physical shape are still extremely unattractive. Look at Larry Bird, for instance.

I resent the implication that, although I am merely a couple of pounds overweight, since I am not physically fit, I am not only “homely,” but I do nothing but sit around and eat saturated fats all day. In addition, at the risk of sounding familiarly Kendallian, I submit that women have always been judged too much by their appearances, while men are generally allowed to be ugly or overweight and are not often spoken of as “homely” in college publications. Let’s try to have a nineties attitude, Mark. Women have brains, too.

Mark, while others at this school are doing their homework, going to aerobics classes or just sitting around eating pizza, you are doing chin-ups stark naked in your hall bathroom. Is it possible that you’re obsessed with fitness? Is it also possible that your condescending attitude toward those whose interests are a bit more academic than athletic is just another form of discrimination? Not everyone can have as perfect a body and fitness routine as you do. Please tolerate us, Mark.

Why, if the health of others at Davidson is really your concern, do you ridicule women who do aerobics or who attempt to use the Nautilus machines? You should encourage everyone to use those machines. Since you're a weight room expert, why don’t you use your infinite wisdom and journalistic skills to write a column about the proper use of the Nautilus equipment? You could even include the times and locations of the aerobics classes offered in the gyms.

Right now, your column is nothing more than an excuse for a self-aggrandizing, narcissistic poser to brag his way to a padded resume. But it doesn’t have to be like this. Be a real person, Mark, and write a real column. At least once.

Sincerely,  
Susan Pearsall

Puckett a Humanitarian?

We are writing this article in praise of one, Mark Puckett, a talented and verbose writer of The Davidsonian. In his latest article, he inspired and jolted us, along with the rest of the young ladies at this institution, into realizing what Davidson is all about: maintaining a healthy physical “appearance.”

As we were consulting Mark’s weekly article for the latest on good health and fashion tips, we were struck with the realization that we have just stopped caring about ourselves. We understand that until now we have devoted entirely too much time to caring for humanity, and if we don’t do something to change our attitude we might not be engaged by the time we graduate.

Today is the first day of our new fitness regime, and despite the risk of bolstering your ego, we humbly submit this proposal for physical self-improvement. If it meets with your approval, we will lead the cross-campus crusade (graduate schools also love alliteration) in the hope of emulating your shining example. Here is a copy of our schedule.

5:30 a.m. Rise. Weigh self. Drink a small glass of prune juice.  
5:35 a.m. Don new running apparel and curl hair because one never knows who might be jogging on the same trail.  
5:40 a.m. Run for two hours without stopping. (Later in the term, length and pace may be increased but beginners should stick to the basics.)  
7:45 a.m. Weigh self again. Shower. Shampoo. Shave legs and armpits thoroughly. Polish and shape nails. Blow-dry, mousse, re-curl, and spray hair. Put on the outfit chosen the night before. Coordinate shade and tone of make-up to complement clothing and season of year. Check reflection in mirror from all angles.  
8:45 a.m. Save at least ten minutes to read the 150 pages due at nine. (You wouldn’t want to appear too smart. It might give the males an inferiority complex.)  
9-12 a.m. Class. Re-apply make-up and brush hair between classes.  
12:00 p.m. Eat a light, yet well-balanced salad and finish with a small cup of...NutriGrain and raisins to ensure a quick passage. Weigh self again. 12:30 to 1:00 p.m. Beauty rest. Do not mess up hair. 1:00 p.m. Speed walk to the post office to get weekly editions of Your Body, Yourself, American Health, and Shape. 4:00 p.m. Leave aerobics with a light dew of sweat across the forehead, and realize that it just wasn’t enough. Finish the afternoon with your choice of swimming, tennis, or biking. Weigh self again. 6:00 p.m. Eat a dinner of salad and oat bran. Measure waist. 7:00 p.m. Lift weights. Ask the best-looking male to assist with the difficult and sometimes confusing Nautilus machinery. (Never trust a woman’s advice in the weight room. Women lack the critical nautilus-using gene.) 9:00 p.m. Go to bed early for those extra hours of beauty sleep and dream of one day looking like a female from another institution, not like a “smart, but homely” Davidson girl. Most of the women at Davidson will be disappointed to see that we have allotted no time for service projects, union or house committees, and leisure time with friends or boyfriends. We feel, however, that exercise is the perfect panacea for those nasty little problems like relationships. If allowed, exercise can replace all extraneous trivialities of life.

Thank you, Mark Puckett, for carelessly throwing around important issues that you know nothing about. Fashion tips and eating disorders should not be mentioned in the same breath, especially in an article that has no purpose or direction. Whether you realize it or not, you impose an “ideal” image of women that focuses on physical appearances and encourages compulsive behavior. If you want to help others (and get into a decent graduate school), leave the serious and important issues to the front page. Health articles should concentrate on health.

Cheryl Bauerle ‘91
Suzanne Davis ‘91
Marya Howell ‘91

Throw in the towel

Dear Editors,

Please, throw in the towel. One of your journalists is on his knees swinging blindly, spitting up literary garbage. This loser’s name is Mark Puckett. Last week Mark achieved an all-time low (and there have been many this year) by insulting a large proportion of the student body. His self-chosen opponent being the female population.

It seems that if Mark had his way the weight room would be an exclusive men’s club or else a place where people bowed down and pleaded with him to tell them the great secrets of working a Nautilus machine. The lack of knowledge that anyone may have from not knowing how to properly operate a Nautilus machine and their pride for not wanting to ask Mark the correct manner will never be surpassed by his own ignorant, chauvinistic views and his pride in displaying such stupidity. Mark is still the Champ in these two arenas.

In his article, Mark slanders those who opt not to follow a rigid physical regimen and discredits those who do make such attempts. So what if people place academics and social life ahead of physical fitness?! Davidson students are mature enough to make these decisions and set their priorities as they wish. Furthermore, nobody appointed Mark to judge our actions.

Instead of writing articles which motivate students to lead a healthier life, Mark continues to talk down to those who he considers inferior i.e. females, Patterson Court members, or anybody else that is not Mark Puckett. I thought that this article was written to provide commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines:

- All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we're partial to them).
- All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names printed with their work.
- The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
- Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
- The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
- All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following information: the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).