Wednesday, March 7, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Movies / Review

The Hunt for the Red October a first-rate action thriller

By RUSS MATTHEWS

The Hunt for the Red October is based on Tom Clancy’s bestselling 1984 novel of the same name. Due to
its inspiration, powerful stars, and hotshot director, this much-hyped film version has been eagerly anticipated by moviegoers everywhere. They will
not be disappointed. From start to finish, Red October delivers an exceptional blend of suspense, intrigue, and action that leaves
the audience reeling.

The film tells the story of Soviet submarine captain Marko Ramius, played by Sean Connery, who attempts to defect to
the West. He is in command of the Red October, a revolutionary missile boat that could upset the delicate balance
of power. The Russians understandably want to prevent their latest technology from falling into American hands and relentlessly pursue the
wayward submarine. They even enlist the help of the U.S. Navy, claiming Ramius is a madman intent on starting World
War III. CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Baldwin) realizes Ramius’ true intent to deliver the entire sub, and not just its
missiles, to the U.S. He must then buck the system in a desperate attempt to keep the Russian submarine and
its crew from being destroyed.

Many people have expressed concern, however, that a film like Red October is no longer appropriate in the era of
glasnost. They need not worry. It is clearly stated at the beginning of the film that the action takes place
before Mikhail Gorbachev came to power. More importantly, the central motivation for the principal characters is a hope for peace.
Unlike the commie-bashing films that were popular only a few years ago such as Red Dawn and Rambo III, the
message here is not “U.S. good, Russia bad.”

Much of Clancy’s intricate plot and strong characters would have been lost if his book had made it to the
screen right away. It is actually fortunate that the film was produced now, when we are better able to enjoy
it for what it is, a damn good story. The filmmakers have done a remarkable job of telling this story
as well. Casting is superb, the greatest coup being Sean Connery who is perhaps the only actor alive today capable
of playing Ramius believably. Alec Baldwin surprises everyone in his first appearance as a dramatic hero. He projects just the
right mixture of competence and modesty, changing in an instant to steely confidence when the situation demands. We can surely
look forward to seeing him again when the next of Clancy’s books is adapted to the screen (my bet is
on Clear and Present Danger).

Scott Glenn is ideal as Bart Mancuso, an experienced American sub driver and captain of the U.S.S. Dallas. He barks
out orders and technical terms with ease, having spent a number of days aboard a submarine before filming began. For
the minor roles, the filmmakers actually found it more convincing to use real navy crewmen. This authenticity and extreme realism
unfortunately serve to highlight the moments when the producers were forced to use less convincing trickery such as a model
plane suspended in front of a blue screen or computer-animated torpedoes. These effects are not necessarily bad, just less convincing
when seen in relation to the rest of the film, and cause only a momentary distraction.

Director John McTiernan keeps everything moving right along, deftly shifting from the political intrigue on shore to the life-death struggle
under the sea. Nothing is over-explained or under-explained and the film does not become fascinated by its own subject matter.
The hi-tech submarines with all their electronic wizardry are not allowed to become the focus, which goes instead to the
interplay of characters as they react to new and always dangerous situations. McTiernan exhibits the same mastery of suspense and
action.

Based on the novel by Tom Clancy
Major Stars: Sean Connery, Alec Baldwin, Scott Glenn, James Earl Jones
THE HUNT FOR THE RED OCTOBER
A Paramount Production. Produced by John McTiernan. Music by Basil Poledouris. Screenplay by Larry Ferguson and Donald Stewart.
Sean Connery as Marco Ramius
Alec Baldwin as Jack Ryan
Also includes Scott Glenn, James Earl Jones.

Good movie. See on big screen.
Books: Fair. Wait for video.that he did in the 1988 blockbuster Die Hard. He seems to have a special talent
for slowly tightening the screws over a full two hours, occasionally easing off the pressure with some well-placed humor, but
never backing off entirely.

One thing that some people will be sure to note is that it's not exactly like the book. Filmmakers are
always confronted with this problem when adapting a novel for the screen; there is more in the book than can
possibly be conveyed during the movie's relatively short running time. Yet, Larry Ferguson and Donald Stewart have done a masterful
job writing the screenplay for Red October. They should receive a nod when Oscar time rolls around again, but knowing
the Academy’s short-term memory, they probably won’t. Time and scope have been condensed, which actually helps to heighten the intensity,
and even with the cuts, the flavor of Clancy’s novel has been preserved (we wish the CIA were really that
efficient).

In the final analysis, The Hunt for Red October is a first-rate action thriller. While some may still question its
social relevance, this will be the furthest thing from your mind as you sit slack-jawed and white-knuckled in your local
theater.

Hoping for another recruitment boom, like the one that followed Top Gun, the U.S. Navy cooperated extensively in the making
of Red October. The producers had several ships and planes at their disposal and were the first to be allowed
to film aboard a serving nuclear submarine. The Soviet navy was not quite so helpful. To represent the Red October,
the filmmakers constructed a full-scale seagoing mock-up of the surfaced portion of a Russian Typhoon class ballistic missile submarine. For
interior scenes, there were minutely detailed sets mounted on hydraulics to mimic the movements of climbing and turning. The special
effects are dazzling, including one of the largest and most impressive explosions yet put on screen. Massive submarines glide through
the dark, murky depths of the North Atlantic Ocean (rather than looking like toys in a backyard swimming pool) while
stalking each other in a deadly game.

BEER, from page 4

"I don’t trust a beer I can't see through. It is pungency and then some." -- Robinson.

Four of the five French beers come from the Alsace-Lorraine area, an area of, shall we say, “heavy German influence.”
Aside from that one secluded locale, however, the French apparently cannot brew a good, solid export beer, with the one
exception of Brasseurs de Paris. Children of the malt find that extremely disturbing. If the Japanese learned to play baseball
after only one American occupation, why can the French not brew a good, competitive beer after three German occupations in
the last 120 years?

In modern European history, German armies have been marching in and out of France with stunning regularity, beginning with the
Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71. Frenchmen have had ample opportunity to pick up the art of beer-making, which is so simple
that the ancient Egyptians (apologies to Peter Krentz and Stone Bynum) could do it thousands of years ago. Sure, the
French can make the hell out of some wine, but for our money, we'll take beer every time.

In fairness to the French, however, it should be noted that beer did not begin to become a popular French
drink until after Europe’s 1848 revolutions. To that point, beer was considered a peasant drink, while the higher (snotty?) classes
stuck to their wine. The changes of 1848 brought with them interest in the common man and, by extension, the
common man’s interest in beer. In addition, foreigners in France, English and (surprise!) Germans among them, also brought an affinity
for beer to France. French breweries are known as “brasseries,” named for the copper brewing vats in which the beer
is produced.

This week’s beers are all relatively obscure. Some can be purchased at Belk’s of Southpark, and all are available at
La’Mart Deli and Wines on Sharon Amity. La’Mart also has really cool 2-liter bottles of Watney’s Red Barrel which may
be worth purchasing for the container alone.

The hot news on the beer scene this week is the arrival of Busch Light. Hailed by noted consumer John
Humphrey ’88 as “on the level of Bud Light, and a great cheap beer,” Busch Light may change the drinking
habits of tight-budget beer fans. Busch Light will, along with the other “grocery store” beers, be evaluated in Children of
the Malt’s beach weekend.
