THE DAVIDSONIAN. CAMPUS LIVING THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1990

The map above approximates Charlotte. Like most big cities, Charlotte has a hub structure, though without an outer belt. Consequently,
if you go down the wrong spoke, you either have to retrace your steps back uptown or, like most Charlotteans,
tack across the side streets. Unfortunately, these tend to change names and directions at every other stoplight (for example, Sardis
turns into Fairview which turns into Park which turns into Tyvola). Charlotte does have an “inner belt,” known interchangeably as
the John Belk Freeway, the Brookshire Freeway, or I-277. This belt girdles the uptown area and connects all the spokes
together at the top.

Stick with the interstates. They rarely change names, and they’re quicker than the spokes (no stoplights). Many times you can
hop off I-77 and be only a few blocks from your target. If your destination is deeper, however, you'll need
to use the spokes. Turn off I-77 at Brookshire Freeway, then take the LEFT FORK OF THE EXIT. (The right
fork will spiral you northward back up to Lake Norman.) Once you’re traveling south on the loop, the different spokes—Independence,
Providence, South—will either fork or exit from it. For most of my directions, I’ll be using this razor—biggest roads first,
then the spokes, saving tricky shortcuts as a last resort. There are a few places, however, (like Queens College) which
only the side streets can find. More about those later.

As you may have guessed, traveling to Charlotte is not like a trip to the grocery. It’s a quest into
dark demesnes. If you’re not an adventurer, don’t even get in the car. Only the strong (or the extremely patient)
can survive this challenge. And even they don’t try it at rush hour.

Jane

Continued from Page 7

...will be transformed into a dog pound. It instantly sends the most somber individual into a canine barking frenzy (save
the cop who has been pounding on your door for fifteen minutes waiting to tell you to shut up). “Three
Days” is an excellent, janus-faced, eleven-minute jam, well structured and the last hard piece on the disc. It is not
the last good piece. “Then She Did...” is a slow groove incorporating two Zeppelinish guitar licks and a Kashmir violin
effect (let’s call it borrowing) to create an utterly mellow and addictive tune. “Classic Girl” is another one that’s hard
to quit humming. To save space in this deluxe, twelve-page issue, I’ll spare you the conclusion. Buy Ritual if you
like Jane’s.

The Doober’s Boot O’ the Week: Cal Expo, Sacramento. 6/8/90. Set 2.

Rob Kelley

Inside Charlotte

Explosive Dance Clubs Offer Weekend Alternative

If you’ve been at Davidson awhile, you’ve probably heard a few names: 13-13, Park Elevator, and most importantly, the Pterodactyl.
They’re just a few of the dance clubs in Charlotte with something to offer. This summer, yours truly, The Charlotte
Troll, sniffed out a few of these clubs. Later in the summer, Kathy Haight and the rest of The Charlotte
Observer's feature gang did a feature-length spread on “The Ten Best Dance Clubs in Charlotte.” Using material from both sources,
I’ll review four clubs in Charlotte.

THE PTERODACTYL CLUB. The reigning favorite of most college kids. Located inside a gray warehouse building, it’s mostly flat black
with columns of glass brick accents. The floor itself is reasonably large, with an extra stage available when things get
too crowded. The music is firmly alternative, mostly Depeche Mode, Siouxsie and the Banshees, and some more obscure groups. Thursday
night is pure alternative, while Saturday is too replete with dance mixes to be enjoyable. Friday is your best bet.
As Haight says, “The people range from freshly permed college kids to punk types in black leather.” Punk types are
usually more in abundance, especially outside. Wear black if you can. Cover is a joyous $2, but admittance is strictly
monitored. If you’re not 18, don’t try it.

13-13. Located not four blocks from the Pterodactyl, 13-13 still commands a pretty good crowd. Inside, a small antechamber leads
into a cavernous brick dance hall. Whereas the Pterodactyl attracts the scruffies themselves, 13-13 is “mostly rich kids doing a
good impersonation.” I’ve only gone when there are bands playing, but one fellow Charlottean described it as “alternative, but recognizable.”
Cover is steep, and memberships are mandatory. Expect to pay no less than $6 your first time, $5 from then
on.

PARK ELEVATOR. Between 13-13 and the Pterodactyl, tucked back on a dark side street, lies the Park Elevator. Haight describes
it as “the kind of club you’d find in a New York loft: bare brick and stone walls, decor courtesy
of industrial molds and gears.” The club is small, dark, and intimate with a wide, low-ceilinged dance floor. The music
here is alternative as...Well, but not with the electric riffs common at the other two. Here it’s spooky, haunting music.
There were about 25 people on the dance floor when I went, with about 15 or more at the bar
and the patio. I’d say about 40 percent were homosexual. There were men talking with each other at tables, dancing
with each other on the floor, hugging each other upon meeting. It’s a very gentle place. No one bothers each
other there. You can dance freely. If you have trouble with the people or the lifestyle, however, just skip this
place. It’s not for everyone. Cover is $5 without a membership, and you need to be 19 to enter.

PLUM CRAZY. This club I have not been to, but the rumors are too wild to let it pass by.
From the outside, Plum Crazy is a tall dark building with a huge neon plum on the front. Inside, reportedly,
are three dance levels, all interconnected, with motorcycles hanging from the ceiling and bright lights flashing all around. Stranger than
the place itself are its inhabitants. As one female friend described it, “Big, buxom women, wearing next to nothing except
for tons of makeup, with fried, fried hair.” And the men? “Older guys, greasy, with shirts half unbuttoned and pants
with lots of pockets on ‘em. And they had these cheesy moustaches...” The music ranges all the way from Madonna
to Paula Abdul, with Janet Jackson in between. Through all of it winds a thundering drum mix. Unfortunately, Plum Crazy
is a 21-and-over club. They do have a college night on Tuesdays, however, and that is when my friend went.
Cover is $5.

The clubs usually open at 9:00 p.m., but you don’t want to arrive until 10:30 or 11:00 at the earliest.
The first three clubs are all on the outskirts of uptown. To get to the Pterodactyl (1600 Freedom Dr.), take
I-77 south past the Brookshire Freeway exit and get off on Morehead (exit 9). Turn right at the bottom of
the exit. The club will be about three blocks ahead on the right. To get to the Park Elevator (601
Cedar), go to the same exit, but turn left. Go about two blocks, until you hit a traffic light at
the bottom of the hill. This is Cedar. Turn left and follow the street for about a block. The Elevator
is in the basement of a big, strangely shaped building with the number 601 painted on it in big letters.
To get to 73-23 (311 Arlington), turn left at the Morehead exit (towards the Elevator), but pass by Cedar and
continue until you pass another club called the Cellar (we’ll tackle that one later). You need to turn right onto
South Boulevard as soon after that club as possible. When I went last, however, South was closed off for construction.
If this happens, go by and turn right onto a tiny street called Arlington, which will curve down to the
club. Don’t be confused by the faded paint on the front. The Park Elevator used to be there. Another friend
suggested just taking Brookshire Freeway, following the loop around and exiting off at South Boulevard. This may work better; I’ve
never tried it.

Plum Crazy is not located near the others. To reach it, take I-77 south to the Tyvola Rd., exiting off
to the EAST. Look immediately for a Jaguar dealership on your right. Plum Crazy is at the back of the
same shopping center. Lastly, make sure one of you has a map before you go. No amount of directions can
take the place of a good map, my directions especially.

Sue Reade

Healthy Bites

Carbohydrates Key to Exercise

This nutrition column is brought to you from the Dining Service. As a registered dietitian, I will provide current, practical
nutrition information of general interest. Suggestions for topics are welcome! Let’s start off with eating tips for the exercising individual.

To perform the best that you can in your sport, pay attention to what you eat! Nutrition can affect the
quality of your exercise session.

Carbohydrate, the primary fuel for muscles, must be available in adequate amounts. Exercising muscles cannot use fat or protein as
primary fuel. With insufficient carbohydrates, your ability to exercise for long is impaired. The longer you exercise, the greater the
percentage of fuel (calories) used from body fat stores.

Eat plenty of complex carbohydrates: whole grain breads and cereals, pasta, rice, vegetables and fruit. These provide vitamins, minerals and
fiber as well as energy. Remember calcium-rich low-fat milk and yogurt; these are also good carbohydrate sources. Meat, poultry, fish
and cheese should total not more than 5 to 10 ounces daily to help control fat intake. Limit intake of
added fats (oil, margarine, mayonnaise, salad dressing) to 3-8 teaspoons daily, including fat used in cooking. This will help ensure
that your diet remains high in carbohydrates.
