8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

Am I Prepared for War?
By Cincinnatus

ROTC aims to develop its cadets into effective leaders. Being an ROTC cadet in the present day, the foremost question
in my mind is, “To where will I be asked to lead?” In light of recent events, “to war” seems
a realistic response. The current Middle East crisis concerns all of us at Davidson. As an ROTC cadet, thoughts of
an impending war weigh all the more on my mind.

When I first chose to participate in the ROTC program at Davidson, our government leaders were forecasting cuts in military
spending in response to Perestroika and the welcomed thawing of the Cold War. Not long after we had begun to
deflate the “military balloon,” a certain Saddam Hussein startled our leaders into blowing air into the balloon once again.

If I were someone else I might be terribly excited by the prospect of going to war. I might grab
my gun and my men and scream “Finally! We get to fight!” The simple fact is, and I think I
speak for many other cadets at Davidson, I don’t want war. I’m scared of having to lead people into a
situation I don’t fully understand or even wholly agree with. Much due to the type of education I have received
at Davidson, I bring a lot into question that I would otherwise overlook. I’ve learned to think before I act,
and have come to value a consistency between my beliefs and my actions. I fear the day when I am
asked to act, despite my beliefs.

I don’t doubt my decision to join ROTC. My participation, I trust, does not add to the sentiment for war,
and perhaps may positively influence future conditions as my position in the Army changes. All said, my enthusiasm for the
program is as strong as ever... but so is my insistence not to be shoved into a corner and classified
“Militarily Motivated: Eager for War.” I see what’s going on with more sensitivity than that... and perhaps worry more than
you.

Free Speech Threatened by Rise of Campus Racism
Continued from Page 7

ment principles, they also threaten to undercut the achievement of equal rights. Civil rights activists have always relied on speech
as their principal weapon. In the long run, any compromise of principles of free speech works to the detriment of
minorities.

In addition to infringing on free speech, these codes may actually fuel racism. As the recent incident with the music
group 2 Live Crew dramatically demonstrates, attempts to censor offensive views make martyrs out of the censored. Did the censoring
of the album, “As Nasty As They Wanna Be” silence the misogynist lyrics of 2 Live Crew? Definitely not. It
showered the band in publicity, thereby propelling them to the top of the charts.

Alan Keyes, a former assistant secretary of state, points out that the codes themselves arise out of a racist and
condescending reasoning. In a debate with the professor who wrote the code adopted by Stanford University this spring, Mr. Keyes
argued against the “patronizing paternalistic assumptions” upon which the code is founded. He expressed surprise that “someone would actually think
that I will actually sit in a chair and be told that white folks have the moral character to shrug
off insults and I do not.”

Racism is a problem which must be addressed with more than misguided measures like limiting offensive speech. Not only are
such measures open to abuse, they also drive underground where it thrives. An academic environment characterized by an unfettered pursuit
of truth and knowledge should be the ideal forum to expose and defeat the ignorance that so fuels racism. The
ACLU’s John Powell forcefully argues, “The primary problem is that we haven’t begun to seriously discuss racial issues.” He is
absolutely right. But the speech-restricting policies he seems to advocate will only have a chilling effect on the needed discussion.Hated
Man Continued from Page 7

You know this type. If you liked him, or were one of his sidekicks, read on. I savor the opportunity
to insult your kind; if you know him as the weasel you always dreamed would grow up to repeat the
phrase “may I take your order please?” several hundred times a day, then you are more like me.

Now, we, the unathletically inclined, banished in gym class baseball to deep right field by the ruffian who took whatever
the hell position he wanted to, have our little slice o’ poetic justice which makes life so very bittersweet. After
years of watching this type of cretin worshipped by society for his feigned congeniality towards the phys. ed. department and
“playing his heart out,” we are finally shown that fairness exists. I really don’t, as if you couldn’t tell, have
even an ounce of pity for Pete. This guy actually sold his autograph! Imagine the scene, “Sure kid, you can
have my autograph, FOR FIFTEEN BUCKS!!!” Utter slime.

Here is a man who prostituted both his supposed love for baseball and his ability to play the game and
in doing so, became a national hero. As long as he kissed the right butts, like his fans (and his
bookies), Rose could do no wrong. Behind the scenes we have a man who, in truth, fixed games as manager
of the Reds in order to pick up a little cash on the side (more like a lot), and then
had the nerve to claim he suffers from a gambling addiction once he got caught. (Pete, didn’t it occur to
you that if you’re fixing the game, there’s not that much of a gambler’s high involved?)

It’s really too bad that the only casino rush Pete’s feeling now is that derived from the drawing of straws
between cellmates in order to decide which one has to dress up and play the role of the voluptuous slut
on Saturday night. Well, Pete, your time has come and gone. We’re not going to let you and your people
wield your bats like scepters any longer. You see, while weasels like you hold power on ballfields and in bathrooms,
it’s our kind, the kind that like sports for the release they provide and who admire honest and decent athletes
who play for that reason, that keeps it in the long run. We become the lawyers, the judges, and even
the commissioners of baseball, like Bart Giamatti, who put you in your place.

---

Leadership Through Air Force ROTC

What makes a leader? Ask anyone who joined Air Force ROTC. Ask about the training in management practices, the variety
of experiences that ROTC offers, about the chance to learn new skills and responsibilities in the Air Force. You’ll find
that Air Force ROTC adds a whole new dimension to your education and develops a leader.

CAPT ER SEAY 547-4537

Leadership Excellence Starts Here

---

HALLOWEEN BOO BAZAAR

Scare with flair! Visit our Boo Bazaar for great ghoulish accessories, Halloween cards, and partyware.

Store: 110 S. Main Street: 892-4440

---

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization.

FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM

Plus a chance at $5000 more! This program works! No investment needed. Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50

---

"The Lost Generation” Can Make a Difference

Continued from Page 1

(after selling his life story to The Enquirer), we can move on and conquer pestilence, disease, war, and maybe even
styrofoam cups. There are people here who are making a difference already. Amnesty International, Davidson Environmental Action Group, all of
the service committees, fraternity and eating house programs, and hundreds of individuals on private crusades all are changing the world
in quiet and not so quiet ways. I propose that we continue riding the furor of the Great Towing Controversy
of 1990 and change the minds of the adults who say we don’t have a social conscience worth talking about.
Let’s get controversial.
