THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990

Letters (cont.)

Amber Waves of Grain Artist Thanks Students

To the Editor:

The Davidson Union Gallery Committee would like to thank the Patterson Court Houses, the SGA, faculty, staff, and especially all the individual students who helped with Amber Waves of Grain. Your support was crucial to the success of this exhibit. The following letter was sent to Ruth Pittard, Program Coordinator of the Union, from Barbara Donachy, the artist of the exhibit:

Dear Ruth,

It was good to meet all of you. I was very moved and impressed by the professionalism and sincerity of the students who were involved. This was the first time that students have brought this exhibit to a campus. When I arrived I kept wondering when I would meet the faculty who were behind it all, but it was not long before I realized that there were no such people! Except for the careful guidance of yourself. The installation and arrangements for the show were as well done (sometimes better) than those of any of the museums or galleries we have worked with in the past. I am encouraged also by the many students who I talked with. They make me feel optimistic about the future. Thanks for the opportunity.

Best wishes,
Barbara

MISSY MEEGAN ‘91
April 24, 1990

Quality of Life Report Needs Attention

To the Editor:

I've just read the Davidson Quality of Life Task Force Report. I was so impressed by its scope and by the professional manner in which it was collected and presented that I was moved to visit John Kuykendall to talk with him about it. I found that his response to the Report was similar to my own: he was very impressed with the quality of the commendations and recommendations made in the Report, but he was completely disappointed with the lack of student and faculty response. I think this lack of response is in part due to a general lack of knowledge of the existence of the Report.

The Report commends the college for its existing and excellent characteristics, and goes on to address its inadequacies and to make many well-considered recommendations for its improvement. These recommendations were made on the basis of your responses to the Task Force’s inquiries concerning what the college as an entity can do to improve certain aspects of the quality of life here at Davidson. If the Report is given the attention it demands from students, faculty, and the Trustees, I think Davidson has a chance of becoming the best undergraduate facility in the United States. If not, it runs the risk of becoming an Ivy-clone student-mill in which the overall stress is put on faculty publication -- and the attention given to the individual student will be completely lost. The strength of the College and its Stated Purpose may soon be subsumed to the seduction of national “recognition.” One of the main reasons I am proud to graduate from Davidson is due to the incalculable contribution that its commitment to me as a student has made to my growth and education. Given the direction that faculty policy is going, this commitment is in danger of disappearing completely -- becoming an empty promise. Let the national reputation of the college stand on its excellence as a demanding undergraduate institution where faculty “actually care” (surprise!) about the students, and it cannot help but be recognized. It would be a tragedy to have so many articles written recently about this quality only to have it evaporate.

If you have not read this detailed and comprehensive report, I highly recommend that you go to the library reserve reading desk and request it. It appraises everything from student housing facilities, to faculty opinion of student performance, to the “self-selection system.” Your interests are most certainly represented. The president will be presenting the report to the trustees this week, and their positive or negative response to it will affect how the college will change -- for better or worse -- over the next four years. This is an opportunity for student and faculty opinions and interests to be represented in a historical decision by the trustees. Do not mistake the importance of this report to your future and the future of the college.

I would like to present my thanks and respect for everyone involved in the project and I applaud their efforts to improve our College and our community.

PETER TAVERNISE ‘90
April 25, 1990

Part-Time Nanny Needed
May through August. Flexible Hours, Convenience to Davidson
Call 663-0915. Ask for Lynette.

Dominican Republic Was A Memorable Experience

D. J. SNELL '90

Last week’s Davidsonian contained an article based on an interview with myself about my spring break trip to the Dominican Republic. Upon reading this article I was disappointed to see that many of my comments and a number of facts were misrepresented. I understand that writing about an experience second hand is difficult, and therefore this article is not intended to be an indictment of the paper or the author. I merely wish to correct some facts and present some personal insight gained from our trip to the Dominican Republic.

This trip was one of the most enlightening weeks in my life, dramatically changing my perception of the world around me. The idea of taking a Davidson College group to the Dominican Republic came to me while watching a video in Grace Covenant Church in Cornelius last fall. The video described the need for an orphanage in the Dominican Republic. Because of construction delays, however, no construction teams were needed. As a result of Mark Johnson’s efforts, we were directed to Youth for Christ, a missions organization that located a need within the community and planned the details of our trip. Thanks to the hard work of Samuel and Sharon Melo (our contacts in the D.R.) we only had to raise our money and schedule our flights to and from Santo Domingo.

We sought funding and support for our trip from various sources: Grace Covenant Church of Cornelius gave $2,000 for the trip; home churches supported the various participants; the Staley Foundation provided scholarship funds for a number of participants as well; Charlotte Coca Cola Bottling Company, Bicycle Toy and Hobby Sales of High Point, and the parents of Karen McDowell also helped pay for the trip. All of the students contributed their own money to make up the sizable portion that remained.

We arrived in the Dominican Republic on Saturday, March 10 to begin our spring break adventure. Each day began with a quiet time and breakfast before working from 9 am until5 pm with a break for lunch. We then had dinner followed by a trip to town or a meeting with local missionaries and friends involved with Youth for Christ. Our work consisted of building a wall to protect a hospital from the traffic and crowds that have resulted from the construction of factories in a newly designated tax-free zone across the street. These factories have attracted a large number of workers to the area, including a group of 1,500 which moved in behind the hospital literally overnight. You can imagine the chaos caused by such an influx to a region with none of the modern amenities that we are so accustomed to. As a result of this dramatic change in surroundings, the hospital needed some protection from its once-tranquil surroundings. The work was rewarding, but the most important part of our trip was the interaction that we had with the people around us. As we worked on the wall, many people would stop to watch us. They would urge the women not to get their hands dirty and would often venture to show us how to lay the cement more efficiently. Casual conversations taught us a great deal about the country we had come to visit and to help in such an insignificant way. Our interaction was not limited to the work area. One afternoon, half of the group went into one of the communities that had been thrown up overnight. The houses were made of wood frames with cardboard for walls and maybe a towel or sheet for a door. These houses had no running water and no sanitation facilities. We saw several little boys without clothes playing with a plastic bag in the dirt. We gathered some of the children from the community around to play games, sing songs, and share a Bible lesson. The article in the last issue said that when asked “How have you been changed by this experience?” I responded “not to any great extent.” This was a grossly inaccurate quotation. I had been asked if I was surprised by what I had seen, and because I had been in Jamaica over the summer where I had seen very similar slums in Kingston, I responded "no." Whether or not I was affected by what I saw is a totally different issue. I had not been able to go into such a community when I was in Jamaica, therefore I had seen the slums but not really “experienced” them even to the small extent that I had in the D.R. In the Dominican Republic, we were brought face to face with children and adults who lived in conditions that we often only read about. I was amazed by the conditions of their lifestyles and the reality of their hardships, but was overwhelmed by the joy which these people showed despite their impoverished state. So often we moan about not having the right car and are depressed because we did not get the grade we wanted, while these kids are happy just to get some food to eat and fortunate if they get a bath. These children are happy in spite of their conditions. What a lesson that provides for us in the “land of plenty!” That afternoon changed my life immeasurably. At the end of the week, we made another visit which impacted me equally as much. This time we went to a leper colony outside of the city of Santo Domingo. While we spent less than an hour in the colony and gave candy to the patients, the exchange was far greater than you might imagine. Our visit reminded me of a passage from the Bible (Luke 8:1-3), in which Jesus healed a leper. Jesus could have spoken and healed the leper, but instead he reached out and touched the leper. In "Out of the Salt Shaker," Becky Pippert notes that in Jesus’s time, the lepers were considered outcasts and untouchables. The same is true today. These people were put outside of the city into a monastery-like environment where nuns took care of them. We were told that many of these people were rejected by their families and were all alone. When Jesus touched the leper, he healed the man emotionally as well as physically by accepting him as a human being worth His attention and His touch. I think in some way we were doing the same for the people we met, talked with, and touched. Even though these people were not contagious, the touching and the visiting showed them that someone cared about who they were. I will never forget the face of one man who was overjoyed to have visitors and who wanted to share his life with anyone that would listen. Indeed, he was rejoicing in spite of his condition. One quote from the other article was correct though taken out of context. I had said “I think we as ‘missionaries’ were more ‘missionized’ by the people we came to help.” I think everyone who went on the trip would agree with this assessment. I found that these people had so much to offer in a lesson about life and rejoicing in their condition. I learned that I had been blessed with so much in my life that I have taken for granted. I will certainly never take indoor plumbing for granted again! But I also learned a lesson that can be applied to relationships here at Davidson. We are surrounded by people who may feel like outcasts, very much like the lepers in the D.R. We may choose to continue on our busy path since we all have ten million things to do before the year ends, and ignore those around us who are hurting. On the other hand, we may take time out to reach out to that person, to get to know them and to listen to their concerns. If we are the ones that are hurting inside, when we reach out to meet the needs of others, we may find someone who is dealing with feelings similar to our own. Take time out to give to your friends and fellow students. In giving of yourself, you will probably gain far more than you are able to offer. In giving of myself to go to work in the Dominican Republic, I was blessed more than I can ever repay.

D. J. Snell is a senior economics major from Canton, Georgia. Read The Davidsonian.