12

Davidson Learns to Live with Smelly Neighbors
By LISA GERRARD

Some small towns swear they’ve seen Elvis. Others find traces of Bigfoot or sight UFOs. Davidson claims a different sort of fame. We have skunks. Better yet, we’ve got an albino skunk—a GIANT albino skunk. Public safety officer B.F. Davis said the white skunk he saw stands almost as tall as his knees!

Public safety director Ray Thrower said he first noticed a skunk population, mostly the black and white variety, at the beginning of May. This summer, he and his officers had to spray Lysol to keep the odor down around the steps of their headquarters in Johnston Gym, a favorite hangout for the nocturnal scavengers.

“We’ve got a real skunk problem here,” said Davis. “I’ve lived in Davidson for five years, and I’ve seen more (skunks) this summer than ever before.”

President Kuykendall has seen skunks during his early morning runs, and twilight joggers have seen them snuffling around for grub on the football field. Belk and Watts residents have noticed some new neighbors, and Officer Davis steps with a bit more care when he patrols behind Irwin and the other outback dorms. The skunks show no fear of humans and carry on about their business even with people around.

Biology professor William Lammers said that the skunks are moving south, expanding their range from Statesville. Verna Case, his departmental colleague and an animal behavior specialist, said that their search for food, encroachment of humans, and basic population increase may explain the move.

“The whole area around Davidson is a refuge for wild animals because of the wooded lands we preserve,” Case said. New housing developments in the area may affect the number of wild animals seen on campus. “There’s a rumor that there are more animals in town because the River Run development has pushed them here,” Case said, “but there’s no documentation to prove that.”

No one has reported being sprayed by a campus skunk yet. “It’s not very likely that anyone minding their own business will get sprayed,” Lammers said. As with any wild animals, rabies is a possible danger among the skunks, so curious observers should keep their distance. Case said the best way to deal with our new neighbors is to “live and let live.”

Students may or may not have a problem with that adage in this particular situation. Senior Bethany Deptuch, for one, is delighted to have them on campus: “I loved our squirrels and I always wanted more animals here,” she said. “It’s about time we got skunks!”

Bossanova Continued from Page 9

SHORT SHOW REVIEW
Indecision. 1313 in Charlotte, 8/1/1990

Not a bad show, but not one of their best. Ibbs got a haircut and played extraordinarily well (almost as if he were sober). “Just a Little Bit” was played without too much space and sounded very nice but the show stopper was “Take It All In (Walk the Corner).” I’m sure they’ve played this song enough times to do it in their sleep and they did seem a little bored with it but they made up for it with a tightness I’ve never heard.

On the ride back, between the two of us, Hunter and I could only recollect hearing five or six of the songs they played before. We concluded that the rest of the songs must have been fairly new material; very jazzy and complex with multiple tempo changes. The only low point of the show was “Chicken in the Pot” which, although it was played to perfection, still sucked.

Smitty’s Boot O’the Week: London Lyceum First Set 5/26/7
Next Week: Jane’s Addiction, Ritual de loHabitual Marlo Cobb

THE DAVIDSONIAN
CAMPUS LIVING
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

The Incredible Ease of Well-Being

If you want to “get into shape” this year, it’s not that tough. The purpose of “The Incredible Ease of Well-Being” (from “The Unbearable Lightness of Being”; get it?) will be to introduce ideas about health that you may not have run across before. You may be surprised -- a lot has changed as far as health literature is concerned, and some information I told my aerobics class even last year has since been updated. Anyway, here are some random points from various sources for now, just to debunk a couple of myths:

1. Floorwork (leg lifts, etc.) won’t “spot-reduce”. You can lose fat through aerobic exercise, but since floor exercises are stationary exercises which don’t increase your heart rate for at least 20 minutes, they won’t help you lose fat. However, you’re not wasting your time doing them because they will increase muscular strength and/or endurance, and the areas you work may appear to have lost fat because the muscles are more toned.

2. Don’t do full sit-ups. Whenever you raise your shoulders above 30 degrees off the floor, not only is your lower back under strain, but you aren’t even working the abdominal muscles very much.

3. Alright, I know that last year I told you to take one or two days of rest from exercise per week, but actually you can do some form of exercise every day, if you feel up to it. Don’t overdo it. You only need 3-5 days of exercise per week to keep fit. The only exception to this is weight training, which should only be done every other day.

4. Avoid dieting. Diets usually involve either a daily calorie cut, or a cut of certain types of food. Either change could be dangerous or even cause you to gain weight over the long run. Starting to exercise and watching what you eat (avoiding foods high in fat, basically) is the best way to feel better and, eventually, to lose weight.

5. Finally, no matter how much you exercise and watch what you eat, you’re not necessarily going to look like what you consider the ideal body type. A lot of this has to do with genetics. So, make realistic goals for yourself, and concentrate on feeling better (which you will), as well as on looking better.

If you want me to try and find out a certain question about health, or to further explain something I’ve written, or if you believe my sources are (God forbid) wrong, then please call me at -6571.

Next week: What is aerobic exercise, exactly, and why should I spend any time doing it?

Sources: Food and Fitness, Linda Carlson and Jan Nix (1988) and The Canyon Ranch Health and Fitness Program (1989)

PROUDLY PRESENT COLLEGE NIGHT

before. They were really into their new stuff.

LAKE NORMAN’S "HOTTEST" NEW NITESPOT HAS NOT FORGOTTEN THE YOUNGER GENERATION!

EVERY TUESDAY FROM 7 PM TO 10 PM

Pop Films Showing:
Tues, Sept. 11, 7:30 p.m.
Wed, Sept. 12, 9:30 p.m.
Sun, Sept. 16, 3:00 p.m.

THE LITTLE CINEMA CLASSICS

DANCE TO YOUR FAVORITE TOP 40 HITS AND ENJOY DRINK SPECIALS ALL NIGHT!

DRESS TO IMPRESS
COLLARED SHIRTS REQUIRED!
NO TORN OR WILD JEANS
NO FUNKY SNEAKERS
NO HATS OR FLIP FLOPS
DRESS SHORTS OK.

AGE 18 & OVER
I.D. REQUIRED!

COVER CHARGES
MEMBERS 21 & OVER $1.00
GUESTS $3.00
AVAILABLE FOR $5.00