THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990 | 13

Women's Soccer

Junior Beth Pharr has helped the team raise its record recently.
Photo courtesy Sports Staff

Women's Soccer Raises Record
By BRUCE BALESTIER

With two wins in three games last week, Davidson raised its record to a respectable 4-10-1, and suggested that the improvement may be occurring that will spur the neophyte squad to future success.

Against Guilford Wednesday, the ‘Cats picked up the win by scoring two overtime goals after 90 scoreless minutes of regulation time. Lindsey Forsythe broke the deadlock; goalie Courtney Robinson garnered her first collegiate shutout.

In the opening game of the Davidson Invitational Saturday, the Wildcats extended a hostile welcome to Clemson’s club team, pounding them into submission with a 5-1 victory. Jennifer Satterfield scored twice for Davidson; Ann Todd, Annie Adams, and Amy Hoffheimer scored one goal each.

On Sunday against Vanderbilt, goals by Susan Taylor and Jennifer Satterfield within a minute and a half of each other gave Davidson a 2-1 lead at the intermission. Unfortunately, the Commodores came up with a three-goal spurt of their own in the second half to take a 4-2 lead. Lindsey Forsythe’s goal late in the second half moved the ‘Cats within a goal, but they could come no closer.

Coach Diane Boettcher was struck by Forsythe’s play. “Lindsey really sparked us on this week. As a senior, we look to her for inspiration in the crunch. She’s had a great senior campaign,” she commented.

The Wildcats will close out the season with matches at Liberty and Gardner-Webb.

Field Hockey

Mary Russ swats through her opponent.

Hockey Beats ASU and Catawba
By LARRY DAGENHART

The Davidson field hockey team upped its record to 10-1-2 last weekend by defeating Appalachian State and Catawba by identical scores of 1-0.

The goal in Friday’s game against the Mountaineers came after the Wildcats muffed a corner hit. As the ball rolled out of the circle, Beth Pharr was there to slap it in for the first goal of her Davidson career. Defensively, Appalachian goalkeeper Libba Shannonhouse deserves a lot of credit; she stopped all but one of an onslaught of 62 Davidson shots on goal. Wildcat goalies Courtney Townes and Emily Coleman had just nine Mountaineer shots with which to contend. Appalachian State couldn’t even muster a corner hit until just 10 minutes remained in the game.

Photo courtesy of Sports Staff

Saturday’s match with Catawba saw a heady effort from the Indians, surprisingly fresh after their win over Appalachian State a few hours earlier. Mary Russ scored the lone goal of the contest with 13 minutes remaining on an assist by Francesca Fiero. The Wildcats dominated the game by outshooting the Indians 43-13.

Coach Betsy Pryor felt that her team wasn’t playing its usual game. “Catawba’s plan was to frustrate us,” she said. “In the second half we regained our composure with little hits instead of long passes and kept more on our offensive 50.”

WORTH MENTIONING: Junior Francesca Fiero is back from her surgery.and has been in recent games for short stretches... Watch out for freshman Erin Lang, who is having good games for the 'Cats. Coach Pryor says, "She's calm and poised and makes the right play at the right time."

NOTES: Davidson has earned the number one seed in the double-elimination Deep South Tournament to be held November 2-4. The 'Cats accomplished this by defeating each team in the Southeast division of the U.S. Field Hockey Association... The Wildcats play at home Friday the 26th against Davis and Elkins of West Virginia. Game time is 4:30.

Volleyball
By BRUCE BALESTIER

After storming unbeaten through a fortnight's worth of critical matches, culminating with Monday night's 5-game defeat of Wofford, Davidson's sterling record stands at 26-3. Both their 26 total wins and 13-game winning streak are school records. The 'Cats' "huge" five-game win over cross-county rival UNCC on October 16 was sweet revenge for coach Rebecca Hawkins and her charges. What stood out from the carnage of the 49ers after Davidson's thrilling 15-12, 17-15, 7-15, 14-16, 15-12 victory was the play of freshman phenom Amy Howard. Howard baffled Charlotte with 21 digs, 9 kills, and 3 service aces, and served as a consistent floor leader. Howard's play, as well as that of Holt Hathaway, and the presence of Mimi Plauche "all over the net" were the keys to the Wildcat triumph.

Last Thursday's matchup with Furman provided another stiff challenge. The Paladins sought revenge after an embarrassingly easy Davidson triumph a few weeks earlier in Greenville, but a determined fifth-game effort by the Wildcats brought Furman's submission in a 15-3, 12-15, 15-8, 8-15, 15-7 Davidson victory.

UNC-Asheville arrived Friday to meet the 'Cats in the opening game of the inaugural Davidson Invitational. The Bulldogs, the number one team in the Big South for much of the season, also fell to defeat in a five-game marathon; the Wildcat victory means a great deal as the team prepares for the conference tournament November 9-10. Hawkins admitted that the "pieces of the puzzle [were] falling into place" but was far from content. She saw Saturday morning's meeting with Winthrop (the team's second game of the tournament) as a must-win contest with regard to the seeding of the Big South Tournament. Her team came through with an easy victory that sets up a likely conference championship game between Davidson and nemesis UNC-Asheville.

The 'Cats wrapped up the tournament title with celerity Saturday afternoon, quite easily dispatching Mercer in three straight games. Holt Hathaway and Mimi Plauche were named to the All-Tournament team; for the season, the co-captains have combined to garner 7 All-Tournament honors. Coach Hawkins was duly impressed with her team's play during the two-week period. "The poise we showed and the pace we sustained were amazing. Our preparation gave us that extra push to come up with the big points," she said.

The 'Cats return to action at Belk Arena November 1 against Campbell.