Commentaries  
The Davidsonian  
Thursday, February 22, 1990

Doesn't single-sex eating seem somehow artificial?  
Lucia Kendall

I know of very few Davidson students who are happy with the male/female relations at Davidson (even those who are happy with their own relationships are often very critical of the general situation). This makes me wonder whether the demise of co-ed eating is a symptom of a larger problem. Or maybe both problems result from the same causes.

I regret PAX’s closing for personal reasons (although to be honest there are several aspects of it that I don’t miss at all). What is most disturbing, however, are the implications of Davidson students not wanting to be a member of a house which has members of the other gender in it. PAX’s closing would not be a big deal if it were not part of a larger trend. Many students do not know that there used to be six co-ed houses on Patterson Court; one by one they all closed because of lack of membership. If one house folds because of lack of membership it seems fair to assume that there is probably something about that particular house that made it unpopular. But if we are going to say that this was the case with PAX, it must also have been the case with F&M, ATO, Emanon, ETC, and Random House. All of those houses had one thing in common—being co-ed.

Before more of you decide to call me, anonymously, in the middle of the night to respond to my writing, I want to make it clear that I am not condemning anyone’s self-selection choices. If you’re happy at Rusk or KA or anywhere else, that’s great. PAX is not the ideal environment for everyone. Yes, I know that some of your best friends are of the other gender. That’s why I can’t figure out why men and women don’t want to eat at the same houses. Is there some assumption that although friendships, even close friendships, with people of the other gender can be great, these friendships cannot extend into being a member of a house that is made up of half women and half men?

Obviously, friendships exist in many ways other than belonging to the same eating house (the term “eating house” includes fraternities). However, one of the best parts of being a member of a house is the special bonds that form between members who spend time together at meals, parties, meetings, social events, service projects, and so on. I don’t understand why students don’t form these particular bonds with anyone who is not the same gender that they are. Because Davidson’s Patterson Court system is very open, and because there are so many friendships between members of different houses and between house members and independents, it would seem that men and women would find it easier to be members of the same house.

Many students do choose the other co-ed option, the Commons. Although the Commons offers a lot of convenience that houses can’t provide, it does not foster these kinds of small-group bonds in the same way that membership in a house does. I don’t know what to think of such a widespread refusal to form these kinds of in-house bonds with both males and females. It is normal at a junior high dance to have the girls standing on one side of the room and the boys on the other, but by the time we get to college we are supposed to have outgrown that tendency. Why do we choose to isolate ourselves like this?

People often have more in common with members of their own gender. Fair enough. But doesn’t it seem that we should enjoy being with some of the members of the gender we will probably marry as much or more than we enjoy being with members of the gender with which we share public restrooms? I’m not saying that everyone who is a member of a single-sex house is an emotional cretin who can only sit in a corner alone drooling and thrashing in a fit of sexual repression, while we enlightened co-ed eaters dance around the campus in a frenzy of bliss and emotional fulfillment. But doesn’t single-sex eating seem somehow artificial?

Many students claim that they chose their eating house not on the basis of it being single-sex, but because their friends were planning on joining it, or they liked the current members, or they liked the atmosphere, or various other reasons, and those claims are true. But is it just coincidence that all six of the houses I have mentioned were co-ed and all of them closed? Is it just coincidence that no co-ed houses are still around?

Of course, men and women who belong to single-sex houses do interact at parties. Many students go to parties just to dance, or drink, or try to maintain a conversation over the loud music. But there are also some students who go in the hopes of “hooking up” for the night. Although many party-goers do not participate in it, the meat-market element of Patterson Court parties is present. So what we have is a system in which men and women get drunk together, but...don’t want to sit around a table at lunch or dinner and talk with each other. Doesn’t that strike you as strange? Don’t you wonder what that implies about our values? I have a guess about one of the reasons for the decline of all the co-ed eating houses on campus. Many of the people who joined co-ed houses did so because they did not fit into or did not want to fit into the single-sex environment. As a result, the co-ed houses, after a while, began to contain more and more members who were labeled “different” or “weird.” At Davidson, having too many people who do not buy into the status quo means death. The general attitude among Davidson students simply will not tolerate people who are different. I’m not just talking about co-ed eating here, this tendency shows up in a lot of areas. For instance, many colleges have organizations for gay and lesbian students, but none of our students would dare say in public that they aren’t heterosexual “like the rest of us.” Do you know more than a dozen students who have strange haircuts or wear strange clothes? Do you know more than a dozen student radicals? More than a dozen students experimenting with beliefs in Eastern religions? This tendency not to tolerate anyone who isn’t like us means that a house which acquires a reputation for being different is doomed. I think that happened in all five co-ed cases. For a college that is striving for diversity and especially open-mindedness, I find this tendency very disturbing. I hope Davidson students will think about this issue. In addition, I hope that in the next few years Davidson men and women will decide that they do want to form these in-house friendships with each other. If they are able to do so successfully, it will not only provide a much-needed option for students, but it will also indicate a fundamental change in the way we view ourselves and each other.

Student freedom carries responsibility

Students need to accept job of electing good editors

Gary Wheeler

Although there has been plenty of debate recently concerning the selection of publication editors, much of that debate has only focused on a small aspect of the problem. Granted, deciding whether the Media Board or the student body is in a better position to choose the most qualified candidate for an editorship is obviously an important question, it is not the only question. A more basic question that needs to be considered is who should have the right and the responsibility to make that decision, whether it be ‘right’ or ‘wrong.’

In trying to designate the best candidate, the Media Board can review each candidate's qualifications and experience in detail and conduct interviews. In some cases, the Media Board may prevent an obviously less qualified candidate from taking the job away from a more qualified one, and in some instances, they may not need to because the editorships may go uncontested. Frequently, however, several qualified and experienced people will compete for the same position—in this scenario the Media Board’s decision may come down to little more than a flip of a coin.

If properly handled, elections have at least an equal chance of yielding the ‘best’ candidate. Certain requirements can be placed on those who wish to run for editor. The Davidsonian, for example, requires that candidates have at least one year of experience. This requirement alone does not guarantee that every candidate will be truly qualified, but The Davidsonian staff could endorse the person that they feel will do the best job. Those running for the editorships could also submit a statement to The Davidsonian immediately before the elections speaking of their qualifications and goals as SGA candidates for President and Vice President do now.

When it comes right down to it, neither student body elections nor Media Board selections ensure that the ‘best’ candidate will be chosen. Leaving the task of assigning editors to a small group like the Media Board, however, would relieve the student body of the responsibility of having to make an intelligent decision—but it would also deny us the freedom of making that choice.

Even before something as perennial as we heard a lot about the notion of freedom and responsibility—it is the basic idea behind our Honor Code. The basic thrust of the freedom and responsibility concept at Davidson is, “We give you freedom, because we expect you to be responsible,” or, “We don’t treat you like children because we don’t expect you to act like children.” If Davidson allows the Media Board to make important decisions for us, decisions that members of the student body could make with a little sound judgment, then a small group of appointed people will be taking on our responsibility. We can go on being apathetic about student publications, because someone else will take care of it for us. In taking on the task of selecting editors, the Media Board would relieve us of some responsibility, but it would also strip us of freedom and invite further complacency.

Gary Wheeler is a junior English major from Jacksonville, Fla., and is a former news editor for The Davidsonian.