2

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1990

Davidson Hosts North Carolina Student Legislature

By TOM KOONCE

Recently Davidson was the host school for the Interim Council of the North Carolina Student Legislature (NCSL). Around 150 students
from 18 schools across North Carolina gathered for this event.

The NCSL is the oldest active student legislature in the country. It provides students with close-up education in the political
and legislative process. The NCSL also gives students a statewide forum for voicing their opinions and concerns on current state
and national issues. Alumni of the NCSL include former Governor Jim Hunt and Senator Terry Sanford.

Over the weekend the students debated several topics including the legality of spousal rape and legal immigration. The debates lasted
seven and a half hours on Saturday and seven hours on Sunday.

Besides these debates, there was a legislative reception Saturday afternoon. Several important North Carolina politicians were invited to the reception
but only one Charlotte area representative actually attended the event. The NCSL also had receptions at the FIGI house on
both Friday and Saturday nights.

The Davidson NCSL Delegation Chairperson is Kyle Kinner. Other members are Warren Cooksey, Seth McLaughlin, Chris Gray, and Wilson Hardcastle.
Kinner commented on the weekend by saying, “Everyone had a really good time and Davidson looked great.” The NCSL is
open to all Davidson students and will hold its next meeting Monday, November 5th in the Union.

Watson

Continued from Page 1

from a project concerning the conservation of sea turtles to a literacy campaign in Central America.” Ortmayer also notes that
previous experience abroad has provided these nominees with ideas for their projects.

Hoyle hopes to study the effects of wildlife ranching for the preservation of sea turtles in Surinam, South Africa, the
Cayman Islands, Kenya, and Zimbabwe. Her interest stems from work with sea turtles on Cumberland Island and the study of
conservation in the rain forests of Australia.

Dunn hopes to study adult literacy and popular education programs in Central America. She plans to apply what she learns
about the differing methods of teaching people to read to her own career as a teacher.

Jobe is interested in exploring opportunities for Western management techniques in business firms of France, Germany, Belgium, and the Soviet
Union. His interest was sparked after spending a summer studying management theory at the University of Chicago Graduate School of
Business.

After spending his junior year in Wuerzburg, Germany, Murphy hopes to return to study the economic and political transitions of
German reunification by living on a collective farm and working in a textile mill town.

Each of these nominees must now interview with the director of the Watson program. In the past, Davidson College has
averaged approximately two winners each year. Scholarship recipients will be announced March 15.

Picture this...

A quick look at some of Davidson's faces.

Demonstrating the Davidson duck walk

By SARAH GOLDSMITH

Every autumn, Davidson’s tree-filled campus provides the Physical Plant with a colorful carpet that must be dealt with. In Davidson’s
case, some of these leaves as well as other refuse have found a home behind the cross-country trail in an
area that some refer to by a four-letter word: dump.

However, according to Irvin Brawley of Davidson’s Physical Plant, this is not technically a dump site. He refers to it
as a demolition and composting site. This terminology implies that only biodegradable refuse is allowed to be dumped there. Leaves
and other natural wastes are items that are commonly taken to the site.

Davidson has 450 acres of continuous land, and this demolition site is located off the cross-country trail. Brawley says that
this is the most economical way to dispose of these wastes. It is also highly monitored by the Physical Plant
so that no non-biodegradable wastes are dumped there.

The demolition site is not permanent, according to the Physical Plant, so there is no question about what will happen
when space runs out. The Physical Plant is now negotiating a deal with BFI for a large 40-yard container that
will hold the biodegradable wastes until they decompose.

The site is legal, and according to Brawley, is totally approved. The Physical Plant’s stated intentions are the disposal of
these biodegradable wastes in the most inexpensive way possible.

Gantt

Continued from Page 1

According to Gilbert Shaw, the Students for Gantt have always felt that the Democratic candidate has a chance to win
the Senate seat.

“We feel that Gantt can win. Helms is having a strong showing in the final week, but we remain optimistic.
We’re hoping for a large turnout at the polls.”

In recent weeks the committee has slipped flyers under student doors on campus, provided bumper stickers for the faculty, and
most recently sent letters to the parents of every North Carolina student, urging these nearly 800 voters to go to
the polls for Gantt. Members of the committee have also volunteered to help at the polls on election day. According
to Shaw, students will remain active in many areas, from setting up booths to informing interested voters of the issues.

Photo by Ted Richardson

The Berton family enjoys lunch outside Cannon during Parent's Weekend

Davidsonian Reorganizational Meeting
Tuesday, Nov. 8
7:30 in the College Union

All staff members are expected to attend, all interested parties are welcome to come.
