10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BASKETBALL

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990

Seven Newcomers Add Talent To Basketball Squad

By TOM KOONCE

The addition of seven outstanding newcomers has given the Davidson basketball program a much-needed shot in the arm. According to
head coach Bob McKillop, with the addition of these prospects “we’ve filled most of our immediate needs, outside shooting and
ball handling,” for the upcoming season.

No. 22 Pat Holloway

Critically, the seven players all come from winning high school programs and show great promise of playing well on the
college level.

Your t will be
And gigh wie world is

your in-flight movie.

FLY FIRST CLASS

Lace on a pair of Lightning* 608 skates and take off.

smooth, comfortable, and fast.

Pat Holloway

Point guard Pat Holloway is a bona fide blue-chip recruit from Denver, Co. The 6’0" Holloway is a superb athlete;
he possesses both a lightning quick first step to the basket and a deadly touch from the perimeter.

He led his team at George Washington High to a 16-8 record. His heady play has made him the frontrunner
for the starting spot at point guard.

Jason Zimmerman

Jason Zimmerman, a 6-2 guard from Warsaw, Indiana, averaged 17.7 points and eight assists for Warsaw High School. He was
selected All-Conference, All-Sectional and All-Regional, and his team went 21-3 and was ranked number one in Indiana most of the
year. Zimmerman also played on the Team Indiana juggernaut that dismantled a Soviet Junior All-Star team, 116-97, in Fort Wayne
this summer.

Zimmerman confidently predicts that “this season should be very good for Davidson basketball, with all the new faces along with
the veterans. The veterans have been showing us the ropes, showing us how it’s done.”

Ron Horton

Ron Horton, a 6-6 forward from Washington, averaged ten points and shot 51% from the field for Gonzaga Prep. His
team was 26-8 and ranked tenth in the Washington, D.C. metro area;

No. 24 Ron Horton

two of his teammates moved on this year to play for John Thompson at Georgetown. Horton looked forward to the
season by saying, “I think the year will be very productive, because we have a lot of talent and everyone’s
competing hard in practice.”

Jeff Chapin

6’9" Jeff Chapin and 6’5" James Marsh are among the other newcomers at forward. Chapin comes off a standout season
at Manatee Community College in which he was a first team All-Conference selection and played in the Florida State All-Star
Game. He averaged 16.1 points and 10.2 rebounds in leading Manatee to a 20-8 campaign last year.

James Marsh

Marsh played for North Hopkins High in Madisonville, Ky. before being discovered by coach McKillop last year in Germany; he
is an extremely talented athlete who may just win the starting job at small forward.

Janko Narat

The last two recruits will help shore up the team’s primary liability of a year ago: perimeter shooting. Janko Narat,
a 6-6 swingman from Domzale, Yugoslavia, averaged 13.5 points to lead his Fork Union Military Academy squad to a sparkling
28-1 record. He made 45 percent of his three-point field goal attempts during the season.

Scott Alford

Scott Alford, a 6-6 forward from Jacksonville, Fla., put in a well-spent postgraduate year at Maine Central Institute in Pittsfield,
Maine. He is a versatile player who can fill it up from the outside. His MCI team went undefeated at
24-0 last year.

Scott forecasts that this year will be “exciting; all the different players are blending into a great team.”

Have an Opinion? Call the Davidsonian at x2148

Entertain

RAFTERS RESTAURANT

Singer and Guitar Player Vince Koob on Thurs. and Sat.

Reserve Space Now for Christmas Parties

Selected Appetizers - 1/2 Price
Discount Prices on Beer

170 NORTH MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE, NC 28115
704-663-8812

"For All Your Bicycling Needs”

© 1990 Rollerblade, Inc.

761 N. Main St. Mooresville, NC 28115

6.5 MILES NORTH OF DAVIDSON ON RT. 115

before you IS OW Campus now) but xual
“DySamus BiG Psweatsuct have been

A troduction of tus vlera- cool

Ain \act.weak's publeation. Youve

yy Sept of our Wwree Charming sales Nps
4 sportwg their own Bia D's.” Doy't
wt Soda, auongn thare dren! t song
ff CALL TODAY ¢ | TeTENT
WYLIE x65\4 eB PeAASBY x650)

Pont BUNK? The large lator poe
be for long, Supplies the WY
quickly dwindling Since the

heed - $0350n thom ) verlded

frovably been grrestech ar the

wanderwe Lhe Campus pron.dy

wake wo to Eavy, your sole

Po get yours Wow ... for,

Rr sweryoue to haveone> A
TAmEE SLACLE x60
