THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990

Campus Living

Rob Kelley | Inside Charlotte

Where to Chow Down in Charlotte for Parent's Weekend

Review / Theater:

Photo by Jay Wylie

Keely Schneider (Blanche) and Mary McNeill (Stella) in this fall's production of A Streetcar Named Desire.

Women stereotyped in Williams’ Streetcar

By JENNIFER SIECK

The Davidson College Theatre Department offered its first performance of Tennessee Williams’ A Streetcar Named Desire, on Thursday, October 18.
Action is set in a dimly-lit apartment in the French quarter of New Orleans in 1947. Stanley and Stella Kowalski
(Bob Hornsby and Mary McNeill) live in this apartment and are visited unexpectedly by Stella’s sister from Mississippi, Blanche DuBois
(Keely Schneider).

Blanche is appalled at the quality of the Kowalskis' life and loses no time in informing her hosts of her
opinions. The Kowalskis do not mind their circumstances or seem particularly aware that their situation is any reason for Blanche
to complain. Blanche’s reasons for visiting and her extended visit develop into conflict in the play.

Players give convincing performances in their roles: Schneider as Blanche, the snobbish belle from Mississippi; McNeill, an honest and loving
Stella; Hornsby, a “manly man” or “good old boy” who works hard, likes poker, his wife, and his liquor perhaps
a bit too much. Timisha Barnes as Eunice Hubbell, the landlady, made me laugh, but also portrayed Eunice as a
person of maturity. Another neighborhood woman, played by Katey Hines, converses with Eunice and Stella from the stairway leading to
the Hubbells' upstairs apartment. Eunice’s husband Steve Hubbell (Ed Cunningham), Harold Mitchell or “Mitch” (Russ Matthews), and Pablo Gonzales (Tom
Hooper) are Stanley’s poker and drinking buddies: in general, gentler sorts than Stanley. Other characters include: a Mexican woman (Cristina
Maria Lopez-Ibanez), a Collector (Frank Jernigan), a Nurse (Nicole Scoggins), and a Doctor (Eric Bone). Each of these actors lends
authenticity to their role.

Stanley frequently has his poker buddies over to play cards and drink beer. Intoxicated and sober, Stanley physically abuses his
wife while she is pregnant. Stella picks up after the men’s evenings, as well as cooking and cleaning for herself,
Stanley, and Blanche. Blanche tells Stella that she can get out of the marriage, but Stella insists, “I’m not in
anything I want to get out of.” The conversation is short and the idea forgotten.

The focal point of the play is Blanche, a woman who cannot face reality, which finally devastates her. The roles
of Stella and Blanche are the primary images of females the audience receives from this play. Other females’ roles include:
the neighbor woman who dresses in housewife’s garb; the Kowalskis' landlady, Eunice.

Continued on page 11

BY ROB KELLEY

Considering the advent of fall “date functions,” Rob Kelley, your Amazing Charlotte Troll, thought it would be nice to recommend
a few restaurants within the Queen City. Unfortunately, Rob knows dance clubs, Rob knows festivals. Rob does not know many
restaurants. This is partly due to Rob’s being a troll. Trolls rarely have dates, and thus rarely need nice restaurants
to take dates to. Moreover, when trolls finally do begin to get dates, they tend to take them to such
romantic retreats as Hardee’s or the local Dairy Queen. Such is the case with me.

So, admitting myself to be a troll of dubious knowledge in these matters, I will now review Charlotte restaurants of
note. Understand, most of these are known to me only by word of mouth or what the maitre d’ could
tell me over the phone.

THE CHATEAU (800 E. Morehead). Very expensive. When I was a high school freshman, the cool thing for Fall Homecoming...

Review / Movie

Goodfellas:

By JOE MARIS

Goodfellas arrives in theaters this fall as Hollywood’s recent addition to one of educated man’s favorite genres of film: organized
crime flicks. Martin Scorsese’s first film since the controversial Last Temptation of Christ, Goodfellas paints an ugly picture of a
boy and his game amidst the blood-covered floors and sleek Italian suits of organized crime in America from the fifties
to the eighties.

The movie opens displaying the stone faces of three scowling men as their car speeds down an ambiguous state highway.
A bumping noise coming from their car grabs their attention, and they pull off on the side of the road
to investigate. The three men head to the back of the car, and Henry Hill, played by Ray Liotta, opens
the trunk. In the trunk lies a moaning man wrapped in tablecloths, coated in his own blood. Tommy De Vito
(Joe Pesci), Italy’s answer to James Cagney, pulls a butcher knife from inside his coat and proceeds to stab...the bloody
lump repeatedly in his chest. As the audience delights in the “knife entering flesh” sounds, Jimmy Conway (Robert De Niro)
fires his gun into the bloody sheets as insurance that the deed is done.

was to rent yourself a limo and have the driver take you and your pre-pubescent date to The Chateau. Still,
its reputation lasted throughout my four years: an ultra-elegant place to eat.

THE LAMPLIGHTER (1065 E. Morehead: 372-5343) Expensive. I actually went here, albeit for my sister’s wedding rehearsal. It seemed pretty
nifty, at least to fourteen-year-old eyes. Creamy yellow lighting accented the dark wood trim inside. I would like to recommend
it unconditionally. Unfortunately, at my senior prom (which synchronized with those of three other high schools) many people complained about
how they’d been forced to wait two hours to be seated, and even afterward the service hadn’t been that great.
Still, that seems an isolated incident. I still remember their Baked Alaska (though more because they set the thing on
fire than because of its taste).

THE MELTING POT (901 S. Kings: 334-4400) This place was recommended to me by Davidson students after last year’s Homecoming.
It serves different types of fondue. If you can get another couple or two to come with you, The Melting
Pot could be a lot of fun.

Each of these restaurants is located either on Morehead Street or directly off of it (i.e. right near the Pterodactyl).
For the Chateau and the Lamplighter, take I-77 south past Brookeshire Freeway to the Morehead exit. Turn left at the
bottom of the ramp. The Lamplighter will be about two miles ahead on your left, the Chateau about two or
three blocks afterward on your right. For the Melting Pot, follow Morehead until it hits Kings Drive, and turn left.
The restaurant will be in the first shopping center to your right. Make reservations.

While certain Davidson students may have their own particular favorites either in Charlotte (Jonathon’s) and up here (Lizzie’s at the
Lake, now the Charter House), I figure that out of the above three, everyone should find something interesting, be it
elegance, atmosphere, or fun. But if you have any questions, feel free to drop in Saturday on me and my
date. We'll be at Hardee’s.

Good Gangster Flick — Hill slams the trunk shut as the frame freezes around Hill’s glaring, boy-like face. Hill’s young
voice emerges defiantly from behind the frozen shot and says: “Ever since I can remember, I have wanted to be
a gangster.” Hook, line, and sinker. American filmmaker Martin Scorsese once again captures his audience with a “no-holds-barred” look into
the life of one of Hollywood’s most unlikely film heroes.

In keeping with Scorsese’s traditional approach of storytelling, Goodfellas centers around the life of a single individual and his direct
relationship with the culture, people, and basic truths of his society. Henry Hill begins his story as a boy in
a large city neighborhood ruled through organized crime by Pauli and his “good fellas.” Hill’s desire to join Pauli’s gang
sounds much like any other boy’s desire to work as a paperboy or lemonade-seller. Scorsese uses special filters and congenial
1950’s camaraderie to create the illusion that Hill is merely selling papers rather than selling stolen goods and dynamiting black
Cadillacs. The atmosphere created in the opening thirty minutes of the film makes it impossible not to admire Hill and
his childish ambition.

As Hill grows in age and climbs the ladder to the upper crust of Pauli’s society, he realizes that gangster
life is the only true life one can live. He continues to preach this sermon until the credits roll at
the end of the film. This unlikely tour guide takes the audience on a tour of the gangster world with
a completely different perspective. The gangster world is not a tough, dog-eat-dog world for Hill. It is a glorious, idyllic
life, even when Hill and his family are almost destroyed. Henry Hill is selling a product, and he is a
very talented salesman.

Hill’s buddies are also masters of their trade. Robert De Niro plays a Mr. Tough Guy with all the guts
and power one has come to expect from the raging bull. Joe Pesci’s character is completely ruthless, killing everyone in
sight. Together, the three characters from the initial car scene stick together with dark-humored camaraderie similar to the camaraderie of
the Three Stooges. Larry, Curly, and Moe are reincarnated as Henry, Tommy, and Jimmy who jokingly aim guns at each
other and gleefully kill their enemies.

Those inclined to watch blood baths will not be disappointed by this film. Neither will filmgoers who like to watch
thinking films directed by talented filmmakers. All in all, Goodfellas is a well-rounded film, and worth watching.
