Reflections in November

Warm November days always seem best at the time. Soft, golden sunlight is always dancing in the back of your
mind. Even in a classroom you can sense the days. The sky is a delicate, light blue, with a subtle
haze. You are always surrounded by warm, harvesty colors: beautiful browns, various golds, rusty reds and oranges, and the everlasting
green of the evergreen trees. Warm November days are cozy days. Days for long walks and romps in the leaves.
Days to play on a playground and revert to childhood innocence. Days simply to lie in the sweet-smelling grass and
savor the sunshine, and later watch a truly golden sunset, that only for a moment will touch everything with shimmering
dream-like color. Warm November days are days for friends and laughter. They are days to relax and play and enjoy
fervently every single moment before it slips away.

Remember when you were in elementary school and you did everything right? It was so simple to be rewarded. Getting
your shoes on the right feet, let alone learning to tie them, was a major accomplishment. These were the times
when learning to whistle was such an incredible feat, you had to wake your parents up at six o’clock in
the morning just to show them. And believe it or not, they were pleased. These were days when you came
home from school every other day with a Happy Gram or a gold star and a little note that said,
“Junior shared today...” Days when Show and Tell was a serious class assignment, and the afternoon rest period was hated,
but comforting all the same. Days of simplicity and routine when everything so easily fell into place. How quickly these
days are left behind and forgotten -- that only echoes of a better time shimmer in the recesses of your
mind. And how comforting on a warm November day, to lay back and recall the echoes, and to bring back
the joy of naivete.

So for just one or two warm November days I plan to laugh and play a little, relax a little,
think a little and be a child once more for a little while. I’ll bask in the sunshine and savor
the sunset and enjoy each moment with fervor, because childhood never lasts forever, and I’ve been old for much too
long.

—Molly Yarbrough, ‘92

The rain falls in our hands

We go with the wind Tormented, us the goblins, Yes, searching, always in vain, The moon watching us,

The rain falls in our hands.

In the middle of winter, briskly, You take us in disdain, Us, the sickly, afflicted,

Our eyes motionless, lifeless -- Nothing passes hand to hand.

In your houses, your children Watch with chagrin

Us, waiting on the corner Where all is covered in white, The cold in our hands.

You watch us in our torment, You pass us, haughtily,

You throw to us sequins, You leave us without bread, Yes, useless, our hands.

We, the dogs, deploring: All the others, all the saints Who have finally left

Dead, with the Almighty, Nothing falls in our hands.

Ellen Morrissey, ‘91

—John Morris, ‘91 (This is the author's translation of her own French poem.)
