Features Spring Break 1990 Here at Last
BY ELIZABETH HOWE

With less than a week of classes remaining, Davidson students are focusing on where they will be and what they
will be doing on March 10—the starting date of Spring Break. While Spring Break is a week earlier this year
than it was last year, this vacation time could not come early enough for most of us here at Davidson.
Faced with multitudinous mid-terms and a plethora of papers, we are all ready to leave academia behind us, even if
it is just for ten days.

While some students are going home to recuperate, others have concocted elaborate plans involving sand, sun, and other fun getaways.
The common thread that runs through each of these vacation agendas (besides the fact that they do not involve Davidson)
is that they are all expected to be sources of rest and relaxation. Lots of Davidson students have crafted some
pretty exciting schemes for Break.

Senior Mark Barrow is heading homeward. He is going to Macon, Atlanta, and Savannah, Georgia along with several friends. He
is especially excited about being in Savannah, which he describes as “a happenin’ place. They know how to celebrate holidays
there, especially St. Patrick’s Day.” Luckily, St. Patrick’s Day is included in our Spring Break this year.

A more traditional Break is the goal of sophomore Sarah Faulkner. She and many of her friends are going to
Destin, Florida, to spend the week on the beach.

The Bahamas is the destination of the Davidson volleyball team for their Spring Break. Freshman Janet Delery explained that the
intent of this trip is “to have fun during the day and to play against other teams at night.”

Junior George Snead, sophomore Dean Vanderwarker, and a group of their friends have opted to spend their vacation in a
snowy environment. They are going skiing in Colorado to get a change of pace from the unpredictable Davidson climate as
well as to “hang out with a few ski bunnies,” Snead disclosed.

Actually, wherever you wind up for Spring Break this year isn’t that crucial. As long as you relax and rest
up for the final weeks of spring term, you are virtually guaranteed to have an absolutely terrific time!

Pledging: “The Life of a Maggot”
By DAVID COARSEY

How many times have you been casually walking to class, still somewhat asleep thanks to the party last night on
the Court, when suddenly you are awakened by the sight of some embarrassed-looking freshman walking around in a diaper, or
wearing boxers on the outside of his jeans, or displaying a billboard on his back, or carrying a door with
the word MAGGOT painted across it in large, bold, black letters? In psychology, we might define this scene as positive
punishment, but we all know it as pledging.

Some people may consider some of the things that pledges are ordered to do a bit harsh. (Would you want
to wear a diaper to class?) But these strange sights do possess a certain underlying value. The whole general process
of pledging is actually a healthy way of integrating the pledge into the fraternity.

When asked what the overall goals of pledging were, SAE pledge educator Charles Handler stated: “Pledging consists of three major
goals: to unify the group of freshmen, to teach them how to make the house work, and to help them
to get to know the brothers.”

In order to accomplish these goals, pledges are told to accomplish certain tasks which help them to interact with each
other and the brothers, and which also encourage them to get involved in the fraternity. Visitations and road trips are
standard ways of going about this process. Visiting means that the pledge must go and see each of the brothers
in his fraternity and find out certain facts about him. Road trips are weekend excursions by a group of four
or five pledges who are sent somewhere in the country and given a task to carry out.

Sports, cookouts, pledge retreats, mandatory attendance of house meetings, and service projects are also common ways of instilling the principles
of brotherhood in the pledges. Mike Peters, the Kappa Sigma pledge educator, explained that pledge activities should “be beneficial to
the brotherhood and/or the community.” He mentioned that in Kappa Sigma, brothers and pledges get together and do service projects
such as cleaning roads. In Sigma Phi Epsilon, brothers and pledges work a concession stand at baseball games where part
of the money goes to the fraternity and the rest goes to the Leukemia Foundation. You may rightfully askhow carrying
a door with MAGGOT written across it benefits the brotherhood and/or the community. Tasks such as this are usually a
somewhat light-hearted punishment used to encourage the pledge to become more fully involved with the pledging process. Holme Oltroggle, the
pledge educator for Sig Ep, said that the purpose of this is “to instill respect for the brothers, the program,
and the fraternity.” However, each of the brothers was sure to mention in some way that these tasks are also
a “rite of passage,” as Charles Handler put it. The life of a maggot is not an easy one—the word
maggot gives that away—but it is fun. Not all of the pledge activities are “beneficial to the brotherhood and/or the
community,” but they are not really harmful either and most of the activities do inspire unity in some way among
the group. Oltroggle said, “The pledges go through things as a group and come out as a group.” The word
fraternity means brotherhood, and the purpose of pledging is to take a group of pledges and by making them go
through common experiences together, turn them into brothers.

Children of the Malt®, Part VIII
Beer from three countries with really bad armies

Children of the Malt Part VIII: Beer from 3 countries with really bad armies—and 3 English beers
by JOHN HUTCHINSON

Thanks to this week’s guest drinkers. Joining me were Dr. Sue Ross, Registrar and member of the English department, and
Joyce Robinson, resident of Paris for 1½ years and Visiting Lecturer of Art. Brian Kelly '90 hoped to join us,
but he wrote a research paper instead. Priorities...

This week we blind-sampled beers from three countries with really bad armies—five French beers, two Italian beers, and one Greek
beer. In addition, we tried three English beers omitted in earlier columns.

Peroni: Nondescript. “Smells like the 900 room the day after. I would expect it to be on tap somewhere” —Robinson.
“If someone brought it over to watch an ACC game, I wouldn’t be offended” —Ross.

Spartan: Cloudy beer. Artificial. “Smells like a magic marker” —Hutchinson. “Eucalyptus taste. Tastes like it would be for your throat”
—Robinson. “A can’t-keep-your-face-straight kind of beer. (This would be great if) you would rather drink beer than suck on a
cough drop” —Robinson.

Kronenbourg: Warm, golden color. Not offensively tingly to the taste, but the taste dies in your mouth. When told it
was Kronenbourg: “That’s embarrassing. This is what I drink all the time in Paris. It is the Michelob of French
beers” —Robinson.

La Belle Strasbourgeoisie: Plain, golden color. Thin, almost sweet beer. “A beer to take with you for an afternoon on
the Seine. Chug-a-lug that one” —Ross. “Reminds me of what you'd have on tap at the French cafe. Crisp, pleasant
taste” —Robinson.

Fischer d’Alsace Bitter: “Smells like sour milk, but I’ve had worse things in my mouth” —Robinson. “The bubbles lie down,
sort of like pond scum. I wouldn’t bring it to my house, but I'll drink it since it’s here” —Ross.

Fischer d’Alsace Amber: Sweet beer. “I wouldn’t be upset if I were served this in a bar. It’s a gin
and tonic kind of beer” —Robinson. “I would take this to a steeplechase. Not too heavy—you wouldn’t drag around after
drinking this. I could get a six-pack of this” —Ross.

Moretti: Lemony smell. Very bubbly, thin, citrusy taste. “Bright tasting” —Robinson. “You could serve it in a champagne glass. This
is a beer to shag with. But it isn’t sophisticated enough for a horse race” —Ross.

Brasseurs de Paris: Sweet, sort of malty. Tastes like an English ale. “You would expect to see this in a
pub with dark wood and leather where the men sit on one side sipping this and the women sit on
the other side drinking something else. It is leaning in the direction of a dark beer” —Ross.

Watney’s Red Barrel: Bland, metallic taste. “Has the chicken coop, barnyard smell. A beer to gather the eggs by. I
will give it an unqualified ‘F.’ I would never bring it into my house” —Ross. “I think if I got
this beer, I’d say ‘bring me a coke.’ It’s nasty” —Robinson. (I wonder if this beer had not begun to
spoil. I do not recall Watney’s being this spectacularly rank.)

Watney’s Cream Porter: Opaque, very malty. “Almost like liquor” —Robinson. “If you were totally out of other beer, you could
watch the late show with this” —Ross.

Samuel Smith’s Stout: Opaque, very bitter. But the taste dies—almost like beer and nothing. “This confirms my belief (affinity for)
light beer” —Ross. “Whatever this beer is trying to be, it

See BEER, page 12
