Thursday, February 22, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Let's go to Spain, speak Español, jog, etc.
By MARLO COBB

I went to Spain for the fall semester with Middlebury College. My purpose was to continue the seemingly endless process
of improving my Spanish. I chose Madrid mainly for its cultural advantages and large size (close to 5 million people).
Spain was under a dictatorship until November of 1975, and it will join the EEC in 1992. The country is
now undergoing a self-improvement process in order to meet the standards of the EEC.

Contrary to what appears to be popular opinion, Spain is not inexpensive. It used to be, in the 1970s, but
since then the dollar has fallen. Spanish goods are thus now relatively more expensive than they were in the 70s.

Traffic in Madrid is a major problem. The streets are narrow to begin with, and people double park all the
time. Nobody hesitates to use his horn, especially at 8 a.m. Motorcycles are also much more popular in Spain than
at home. Madrid is a noisy, crowded city during the day, but the nightlife compensates for that. An evening my
friends liked to call “Typical Eh-spanish” would start after a 10:00 p.m. dinner. It moved on to 1-liter or even
3-liter beers, a disco or two between 2:00 and 5:00 a.m. From there, we would move to a “jamoneria” for
a late-night snack (breakfast?). The evening would culminate at 6:30 or 7:00 a.m. in a “chocolateria” for hot chocolate, fried
doughnut sticks, and good conversation. Then, of course, we would sleep until 3:00 p.m. that day, which in Spain is
lunchtime!

Spanish guys have a stereotype for all “Americanas”: blond and fat. At the same time, they think of all Americans
as very athletic. We are considered a friendly people in comparison with the British, who are considered to be cold
and aloof. Spaniards also think that Americans dress rather sloppily, and compared with them, we really do. Outward appearance is
very important to the Spanish. Although it is true that some of the population has dark hair and eyes, there
is a pretty wide range of looks that are truly “Spanish”. Many Spaniards did not recognize that I was a
foreigner until I opened my mouth. Sometimes I’d be stopped on the street and asked for directions. I’d have to
say (in heavily accented Spanish), “I don’t know where that street is, but I’ve got a map!”

My nationality was obvious, however, when I decided to dress down. A sweatshirt is blatantly American on the streets of
Madrid, and so are shorts, for which guys will get stares and girls will get whistles and comments. Marlo Cobb,
'91, is shown here with a Spanish friend in front of the Plaza de España in Sevilla, Spain. Some ideas
and attitudes are more conservative in Spain than in the U.S. I have never felt so conspicuous when running than
I did in Madrid. I got some pretty strange looks.looks, especially when I was stopped by a stoplight while jogging.
The only time they ranked up there with (or surpassed) Spanish groups was on Spanish radio. I thought that Spanish
rock was actually quite good. The Spanish try at rap, however, is a different story! Besides Madrid, I was able
to visit Luarca (a coastal town in the province of Asturias, to the north), Barcelona, Cordoba, Granada, and Sevilla. I
would definitely recommend a semester abroad for anyone who is considering it, but I’m also really glad to be back
in the US!

American Mark Todd paints layered abstractions from which fragmentary shadows and sentences emerge, which keep the media Spaniards that I
saw running emptying into to dictate our understanding of reality. There were some guys on a local high school track
team. Most of my Spanish friends didn’t exercise regularly. Mark Puckett, if you think it’s bad at Davidson (which I
don’t), you haven’t seen anything until you go to Spain! American clothes and the winding down of the 20th century
have confronted many with the task of retrospection. Critical thinking regarding society’s primary values has become of paramount importance as
we face the reality of a planet threatened directly by our attempts at modernization. Nowhere is this crucial self-analysis more
apparent than in the visual arts.

The Mint Museum itself provides a winding down of our daily lives. As you stroll through the several galleries of
the show, your movements are followed and recorded by video cameras placed strategically in each corner. As you attempt to
experience what is supposed to be unrestrained creative expression, the video cameras are an ever-present reminder of the distrust that
lies behind such “freedom.”

Robert Anderson’s sculpture, “Portrait of George,” will be on exhibit and is illustrative of this valuable introspection. The show, which
is entitled “Contemporary Icons and Explorations,” will continue through March 11. The exhibit of over 75 paintings, sculptures, and mixed-media
constructions roughly covering the last two decades offers a poignant look at major currents of contemporary thought. One of the
themes that is most apparent in the show is the anxiety, collective and personal, that has manifested itself in several
forms. Perhaps the most literal of these is Bill Kane’s mixed-media assemblage entitled Boom. A corroded image of a mushroom
cloud hovers over a field of menacing black void, illuminated only by an acidic red neon cross and the word
“Boom” below. Hidden discreetly beneath the rubble of the image is the ironic expression “Nice!”.

The questions of self-identity and spiritual renewal in a world of cutthroat consumerism are explored in the work of Christophe
Boutin and Alan Greenberg. Boutin uses references to the mythical process of alchemy to suggest moral rebirth (“Sans Titre [Cones]”
1986). Greenberg, as well as sculptor Charles Simonds, creates constructions that hint at the evolution and decay of once-powerful societies
(perhaps our own). Other artists in the show take a more personal approach in their attempts to deal with contemporary
anxieties.

See MINT, page 12
