Features Friends of the Arts: Culture in our town
BY MATT GOAD

Davidson College could soon become a beacon of light for the arts in the community if the Friends of the Arts program has its way. Friends of the Arts is a program designed to involve the community in the fine arts at Davidson and to raise additional money for annual events in the music, theater, and visual arts departments. The program will focus on a different department each year. This year the focus is music, and next year it will be theater.

The program will kick off on March 26 with a concert by the Kalichstein-Laredo-Robinson Trio, a world-renowned chamber music group made up of a pianist, cellist, and violinist. A reception for members will be held after the concert. Next year, a possible event is a performance of Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet. Another possibility for the future is a trip to New York City to attend several operas and to visit museums.

Babs McKelway, director of the Friends of the Arts, got the idea for the program while at Princeton University during the winter of 1986 with her husband, professor of religion Alexander McKelway, who was on academic leave. She got involved with a program there called Friends of Music. McKelway had often lamented that sports at Davidson drew many more people from the community to the college than arts-related events, so when she got back from Princeton, she decided to start a similar program here.

Though other colleges have similar programs, the Davidson program is unique in that it is concerned with all the arts, not just one area. To raise funds, McKelway sent letters asking for contributions ranging from $25 to $1000 to the faculty and staff, as well as to various homeowners in North Mecklenburg and South Iredell counties. Students are encouraged to join, too; the student membership fee is $3. Members are entitled to a ten percent discount on Artists Series season tickets, advanced notice for arts-related events, an invitation to a reception for members each year, and preferred seating at events sponsored by the Friends program.

According to McKelway, each department will decide independently how to use the funds raised. The money will be used for everything from buying new light bulbs to bringing visiting artists to the campus. Any student interested in becoming a Friend of the Arts or who would like to help with the upcoming reception should contact the Alumni House at extension -2116.

Sweet Honey: Verses of injustice and hope
By BETH MITCHELL

ENERGY!!! From the first number to their colorful encore, Sweet Honey in the Rock energized their audience in Love Auditorium Saturday night. This a cappella group of six women, world-famous for their talent and social cries, have been performing for 16 years and were glad to finally make it to Davidson.

In “Sitting,” we learn that “sitting on our past, we watched another decade die.” Finally, we are given a charge to get involved with “Giving Hands to Struggle.” Spirituals signified the way blacks analyzed the information they were getting fromslave owners," said the moderator. "In the song, you live in one condition and talk about what will come." Their program of songs followed a journey through major events in the development of African-American culture. 

"This is Black History Month; we have at least one month to celebrate. But some of us want to do it every day," stated one member. "And that’s what these songs are about—celebrating black culture." 

The talent that these women possess is remarkable. They threw their whole bodies into the feel of the music—produced only by their voices (although calabashes and the wood block were used to add rhythm). I don’t think that there is any sound that these women could not produce with their voices. We heard clicks, sirens, and bass lines. 

Many of their songs contain a message to society. In “Wade in the Water” (a tribute to Harriet Tubman), we are told that there are difficulties in risk but we must go on because “God’s gonna trouble the water.” Their voices blended together as many streams rolling to the sea; you could picture the song through their voices. 

The next group of songs were about the 1960s, celebrating the battle of the sit-ins and the freedom rides. In “Letter to Mar- come,” “I Got Shoes, You Got Shoes,” a song describing a world committed to equality, had the audience joining in. Other songs were more lighthearted, ranging from love songs (“Soweto, My Home”) to prayers. “Danko” is a prayer from Mali of women who would do anything to have children; if their prayer is heard, they must continue the prayer so that their children will live to be whole human beings. 

A different style song was a rap explaining the origin of the calabashes—narrated by a squash on her way to becoming a calabash! Yet, Sweet Honey in the Rock was most expressive in songs about modern-day oppression. One song talked about workers in Port-au-Prince earning $3 a day and all their products being shipped to the U.S. “Ode to the International Debt” tracked down U.S. military and government operations in the past few decades and showed the consequences (i.e., refugees and death squads in El Salvador). The song admits the “good intentions” of the government to help. Yet, the “money is sent to buy changes that will never come.” There is a debt to be paid. 

Lucille Clifton, former poet laureate of Maryland, will be giving a poetry reading Thursday, March 1 at 7:30 p.m. Carta Visiting Distinguished Professor at St. Mary’s College in Maryland, Clifton is on permanent staff as professor of literature at the University of California in Santa Cruz. Two of her books of poetry, Good Woman and Next, were on The New York Times's Best Book of the Year List in 1988 and 1989, and second in running for the Pulitzer Prize. Clifton is the recipient of several awards. 

Lucille Clifton will be at the 900 Room this Thursday at 7:30 p.m.