THE DAVIDSONIAN, FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1990

JAY J. CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief  
MARK D. PUCKETT, Executive Editor  
GIRISH GVALANI, News Editor  
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor  
HEATH HARDAGE, Features Editor  
DOUG GIBSON, Inside Art Editor  
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor  
ED MATTHEWS, Photography Editor  

The Davidsonian  
Founded in 1914  

MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager  
BILL SCOUTEN, Advertising Manager  
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager  

Convocation: At Least the Alumni Were There

It is not surprising that less than one hundred seniors attended their own Convocation this past Friday. Fortunately, the alumni visiting this past weekend filled the seats of those opting for the beach. The decision made by those students who abandoned Spring Convocation for their coastal pilgrimage was both sad and embarrassing. In fact, Mayor Kurt L. Schmoke, the featured speaker at Spring Convocation, mentioned at the outset of his speech that he understood many “students had a date with the beach.”

Students should perhaps realize that a liberal arts education involves liberating values and ideals. Nowhere could one have enhanced his or her knowledge more than by listening to Mayor Schmoke’s brief and entertaining speech on the drug problem. Schmoke is labelled by many in the press as having a radical viewpoint in his policy toward drugs because he doesn’t believe in prosecuting abusers and criminals, but rather treating them through medicine, even if this means using illegal substances. Nonetheless, those students who decided to drive to the beach that day were never exposed to Mayor Schmoke’s strong argument against the Bush administration’s drug policy.

President Kuykendall and the administration should be applauded for bringing a Convocation speaker who inspires thinking and debate on an important national issue. Stated Mayor Schmoke at the close of his speech, “only in marketplaces of thinking such as Davidson College can we challenge the status-quo.” However, if many students prioritize Beach Weekend over Spring Convocation, is Davidson a “marketplace of thinking” or an institution for better tans?

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines. All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus. Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25" or 3.5" IBM or Macintosh-formatted diskettes. All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names printed with their work. The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only. Letters should be under one hundred words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter. The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic. All submissions should include the author's home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).

Have A Good Summer, But Before You Go, Please Remember to Return Your Library Books.

Letters

Recycling: Harvard vs. Davidson

To the Editor:

Sadly, my wife was unable to attend Davidson College because at the time it was an all-male institution. She settled for second best and went to Harvard University. Naturally these days we receive mailings from both institutions. And lately, I confess, Harvard seems to be the one with loftier vision. You see, Harvard believes (and so states) that it is a leader. It believes it must lead by example - not only words. So Harvard has actively, aggressively, effectively addressed the solid waste problem we face. Harvard has a major recycling effort going on campus, smack in the middle of Harvard Yard. And not only aluminum cans, glass, paper, newspapers - even yard waste. But Harvard knows that the problem has another side: the generation of the waste. Thus, Harvard buys recycled paper in its offices and is banning styrofoam. Harvard is working for a solution by example in Boston. Harvard even featured an extensive story on the steps they were taking in a recent magazine. Princeton and other similar schools are taking similar steps.

Now, what about Davidson? Exactly the opposite, I fear. My class has a cluster reunion, April 20-22. April 22 is the huge twentieth anniversary of Earth Day. Alas and alack, the college is more eager to offer Bloody Marys at a reception than do something meaningful that day with its alumni. Shame.

Then there’s the consumption of the college. Again, the record indicts the school. In today’s mail came a questionnaire that was printed on 8 1/2 x 14 inch paper. The back side was empty.Why not 8 1/2 x 11 inch paper printed on both sides? The financial savings would exceed my donation I'm sure (and yes, I do give... for now). And why not be an outspoken leader? Sell recycled paper in the store. Use recycled paper in the administration. Stop using chemical-intensive groundskeeping—switch to low impact or even organic. In short, get on the stick. Be a leader. Have some vision. It’s time to help make solutions rather than be part of the problem. That’s the kind of Davidson I thought I attended.

T. HERBERT DIMMOCK '74
April 10, 1990

Davidson is Recycling

To the Editor:

I am happy to announce a major breakthrough regarding recycling and the college stationery order. All college stationery is coordinated and ordered through our office. The total numbers ordered each year are staggering. Last year they were approximately the following: 312,000 regular letterheads and second sheets; 210,000 regular envelopes; and 36,000 monarch size envelopes. That's a lot of paper.

In the past, when I have investigated recycled papers for our stationery, costs have been higher (for papers of comparable quality) than what we were currently paying. But market conditions are apparently turning, due to increased demand from consumers for recycled papers. More companies than ever before are starting to manufacture recycled papers, and as volume is going up, prices are coming down. The company that manufactures our current paper—Strathmore—has just introduced a recycled paper that matches our current paper in quality, texture, color, and best of all, price. Therefore, I am making the switch to recycled paper for the college stationery order this summer. The paper will look virtually the same to campus users, with the minor exception that the watermark on the paper will say “recycled.” Even that is a nice bonus because people will know that Davidson is using recycled paper—that’s an important message to convey. But even more important, this is an important commitment for the college to make.

JERRY S. STOCKDALE
Director of College Relations
April 23, 1990

Trees Were A Danger to Players

To the Editor:

I would like to respond to your editorial "Tearing Down Trees for Tennis" in the April 12 issue of the Davidsonian. I am actually grateful that the question was raised and consider your concern valid. At the outset, let me say that the action was taken reluctantly by the grounds crew at my request. My request was also painfully considered, and I assure you not made lightly. I have been a member of the National Arbor Foundation for more than four years, which involves not only yearly financial contributions, but also yearly tree plantings. I own two pieces of property, one local and one in the mountains, and maintain thousands of trees on both. I consider myself a militant environmentalist, and totally unsympathetic with concerns of industry in environmental matters.

The trees which were cut down were planted at the request of myself and Thom Cartmill, then athletic director, in 1975, to act as a buffer between the cars and the lower tennis courts. We made a mistake in that we underestimated the speed of their growth, and the resulting pattern of light and shadow that would occur on our now varsity men’s and women’s tennis complex. Put simply, this pattern of light and shadow presents a safety problem. If you consider any tennis stadium you have ever seen on television or in person, you may recollect that there are never trees around for the same reason that there are never trees around a baseball diamond. Consider the fact a fastball in baseball comes at the batter from 60 feet away at 90+ miles an hour. A serve in college tennis can come at the player from 78 feet away at 130+ miles per hour. If the ball travels through the dappled effect of light and shadow from trees, the result can be not only embarrassing, but also dangerous. The problem is that the ball appears light, then dark, then light in a repeating pattern, making depth perception almost impossible. This is why we had to take down the trees. We will plant a hedge to act as a buffer between the parking lot and the courts. The grounds crew will select the hedge that they prefer. As penance, I pledge to continue to plant at least ten different varieties of trees each year as I have for the past three years. But once again let me state that your question was valid, and the concern justified, and I appreciate the opportunity to explain.

JEFF FRANK
Director of Tennis
April 13, 1990

LETTERS Continued on Page 6