2 (Beyond Davidson)

By CAROL GATEWOOD and CAROLINE WILLIAMSON

South Africa

Nelson Mandela, the recently freed leader of the ANC, urged fellow Africans in Durban, South Africa to end the black
against black fighting and to “take your guns, your knives, and your pangas and throw them into the sea. Close
down the death factories. End this war now!” In another speech in Johannesburg, Mandela reopened a debate about South Africa’s
economic policy. He claims that the capitalist structure has allowed for inequalities between the rich and the poor, the black
and the white to grow more prominent. Once South Africa is rid of apartheid, the problem remains of choosing an
economic system for the country.

Clement Radebe, a sophomore from South Africa, stated that his nation has entered a new phase of the struggle against
apartheid that represents a return to oppositionist policies of the 1960s, which concentrated on negotiation with the government and no
use of aggression. People’s attitudes are different now that Mandela has been released, and Clement hopes that the government will
respond positively to his efforts at starting “negotiations with the ANC, where anything can happen.” Radebe emphasized that the ANC
and government are now involved in a game. Whatever mistake the ANC or government may make will set off a
chain reaction where the opposing force may overreact.

Radebe talks about changes in native South Africa.

Nicaragua

Violeta Chamorro, the leader of an opposition party in Nicaragua, defeated President Daniel Ortega in the election on Sunday. Chamorro
won with approximately 54 percent of the vote and Ortega admitted his defeat and relinquished his post to his rival.
If Ortega had refused to allow Chamorro to become President, he would have further jeopardized already strained relations between the
United States and Nicaragua. President Bush claimed prior to the elections that if Ortega won, he would not guarantee closer
ties between the two countries. Ortega, the leader of the Sandinistas, had been in power since 1979 when the Sandinista
National Liberation Front dismissed US-supported President Somoza from power. As many as 90 percent of eligible voters were expected to
cast ballots in the election. Overall, this creates a volatile situation that could result in violence.

The two Germanies

This past weekend West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl travelled to the US to meet with President Bush at Camp David
and discuss German reunification. Both leaders agreed that a unified Germany should remain a member of NATO. In other issues
surrounding the German question, the Polish government continues to voice their concern over its present border with East Germany. Prime
Minister Mazowiecki of Poland has asked that his borders be protected. He pointed out that many German politicians refuse to
admit that such borders should be protected. He pointed out that regaining these former German territories is an emotional issue
for Germans, since nearly two million were forced to leave these areas after the war. Some of these “immigrants” are
still alive today. In economic news, fears over a rise in inflation and interest rates from a possible unified German
economy already caused the Tokyo stock market to plunge 6.9 points on Monday.

Soviet Union

Demonstrators participated in non-violent protests in about 20 cities across the Soviet Union over the weekend. According to the New
York Times, the protestors gathered to promote opposition candidates for republic elections in Russia, the Ukraine, and Byelorussia next week.
Many of the protestors also criticized President Mikhail Gorbachev for moving too slowly with reforms; he was described as “a
captive of a Stalinist system and as out of touch or hungry for power,” but some still maintain that he
is the only Communist that Soviets can trust today.

Wednesday, March 7, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus crime corner

False alarms, vandals infect campus

By GIRISH GVALANI

A wallet was reported missing from the room of David Campbell on fourth Belk two weeks ago. It contained $20
in cash, Campbell's driving license, and credit cards. It was assumed that Campbell had mislaid it but...he said he was
pretty sure he had left it in his room and later found it missing. A bicycle was reported stolen from
in front of Richardson during the same week. It is a red mountain bike and is valued at about $200.
In addition, about $70 was reported missing from a wallet in a coat left hanging in Vail Commons during lunchtime
that day. Police said that no one is under suspicion as yet for all the above incidents.

On Patterson Court, a 25" television set was reported stolen from the BSC two weekends ago. The police as yet
have no leads. Two cases of vandalism by students were reported on Sunday. Some students broke open the fire extinguisher
box and sprayed foam on West fourth Belk, setting off the smoke detectors and fire alarm. Another false alarm was
set off 30 minutes later in Watts. There was a real alarm though, set off in the senior apartments by
burning food. Chief Jackie Hughes said that the entire situation was “hard on the voluntary Fire Department” and that “they
were getting upset at the number of false alarms.” On a more positive note, he stated that this year’s pledging
activities caused no “serious problems” as compared to previous years.

There was a reported case of vandalism on March 3 caused by a fight between two students. The windowpanes on
the front door of Cannon were broken by one of the students. The case has been reported to Dean Will
Terry.

Recycling tip o’ the week
Intelligible, sensible; do-able and only slightly inconvenient ideas for the Davidson College Student

STOP DRIVING EVERYWHERE! Does Davidson have such a large campus that walking (or biking) to class requires an exhaustive physical
effort? Are we too weak to carry our laundry on foot? Do we really not have time to walk to
the post office? Is it slightly irrational to drive to the Baker Sports Complex so we can exercise? It has
been estimated that each gallon of gasoline we burn in our car engine produces 18 pounds of atmosphere-damaging carbon dioxide
plus other harmful emissions. If 1 percent of American car owners left their cars idle for one day each week,
42 million gallons of gas per year would be saved and 840 million pounds of carbon dioxide would be kept
from the atmosphere (The Earth Works Group, 50 Simple Things You Can Do to Save the Earth, p. 89). Let’s
use the best technology available to us (our intelligence, not our automobiles) to realize that driving around Davidson is in
most cases unnecessary, destructive, and LAZY!

The D.C. Recycling Committee

After close call, Davidson JYA in Montpelier, program remains intact
By GIRISH GVALANI

Due to problems in renewing the contract Davidson has with the University of Montpelier, the future of the junior year
abroad program in France appeared to be in jeopardy. According to Homer Sutton, coordinator of the study abroad program and
associate professor of French, French universities had to admit over 100,000 students in excess of their capacity. As a result,
most universities found themselves severely under-budgeted. One of these universities was Montpelier. Sutton said one measure adopted by Montpelier to
ease the strain on their budget was to try to change the terms of the JYA contract it had with
Davidson. According to Sutton, if the new contract had gone through, it would have cost Davidson several times more per
student than it had cost previously. Sutton said that attempts to negotiate with university officials were not successful. One possible
solution was to shift the center of the program to Tours. This plan seemed feasible enough until Sutton, who was
in Tours trying to negotiate the contract, ran into an unexpected snag. According to Sutton, a faculty member at the
University of Tours succeeded in convincing the administration that Tours should give priority to French students, especially since French universities
were unable to admit all deserving candidates at that time. The JYA program seemed to have reached a deadlock. But
Montpelier suddenly gave in and agreed to renegotiate their terms. No explanation was given for the change in position. A
new contract was drawn up and the center for JYA in France remains in Montpelier.
