2

“Cosby” consultant addresses stress in Black men vs. women

By ARMANDO JOSE SANCHEZ-ABALLI

Alvin Poussaint, a noted psychiatrist and also a script consultant for two innovative television programs, “The Cosby Show” and “A Different World,” presented a lecture Monday which highlighted the distinguishing dynamics evolving between Black males and females. Noted for his work on issues ranging from stress to the impact of racism on the Black psyche, Poussaint is Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Associate Dean for Student Affairs at Harvard Medical School. The Committee on Public Lectures and the Black Student Coalition co-sponsored the event.

Poussaint revealed the motivations involved behind the creation of some of the characters on the shows he consults as well as addressing critical issues facing the Black students on today’s college campuses. According to Poussaint, many studies that have explored the plight of the Blacks and their assimilation into society have been obscured because they have neglected to differentiate between male and female experiences. Tracing this facet of the Black experience from its roots in the Civil War era to the present, Poussaint unearths a dramatic contrast between the experiences of both sexes. This difference accounts for the inadequacy of social programs to effectively identify and help alleviate the problems confronting Black men and women.

Citing “The Cosby Show” as being sensitive to this component of the Black experience, Poussaint disclosed the intricate detail which entailed the formation of the characters. In order for social programs to adequately assist Blacks, he believes that this element must be observed.

Concluding the lecture by fielding questions from the audience, Poussaint shared his insight and experience on two key issues with which minority students at Davidson are confronted. One is the pressure to integrate into the majority while attempting to maintain one’s sense of identity and culture. “This feat sometimes produces acute feelings of anxiety and confusion,” claimed Poussaint, “and causes some students to drop out.” The other concern addressed was the effects that a Black fraternity might have on a college campus. Poussaint believes that Black fraternities and coalitions “contribute to the campus atmosphere,” and serve as support groups for individuals in need of sharing cultural similarities. The lecture concluded a two-day conference held at Davidson College by the Leadership South Consortium.

Women’s concerns are for everyone

By SUSANNAH WELLFORD

“The Women’s Concerns Committee is not a group of bra-burning radical feminists,” assures Sandra Smith, the committee’s new chairperson. Instead, the committee is “devoted to increasing awareness of women’s issues both on and off campus, as well as emphasizing the need for action,” she stated. Smith wishes to create a “humanistic atmosphere” where she hopes to involve both male students and male faculty in the predominately female committee. “It’s important to remember that these issues both directly and indirectly concern both sexes,” she says.

Smith is concerned with establishing a cohesive committee that will act as a feedback group for the students where they can meet to share concerns and discuss women’s issues. She will also strive to accomplish several campus-wide objectives, such as increasing political awareness in the field of women’s concerns. The committee...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

will keep up to date on abortion and other legislation of interest to women’s concerns. Smith plans to expand the committee’s association with the faculty, who have recently announced the approval of a Gender Studies program at Davidson. Other goals for the future include several letter writing campaigns on issues such as abortion and sexual abuse and possible involvement with a NOW chapter. The Women's Concerns group will celebrate the approval of the Gender Studies in the Big Screen Room. On Wednesday night there will be a showing of “The Accused” at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room, followed by a discussion of the film with Lisa Jadwin, visiting assistant professor of English.

After 17 years at Davidson, Jackie Hughes of campus police to retire

By HARIN de SILVA

Davidson’s police chief Jackie Hughes retires after 17 years of service this week. Hughes has served the college since the inception of its police force in 1978. He has also functioned as the chief law-enforcement officer for the Davidson community since 1973. However, his association with Davidson goes back much further -- almost 28 years. Hughes recalled that until 1973 when Davidson opened its doors to women, no law enforcement officer had been present on campus. He pointed out that the need for a campus police force had arisen with the first date-rape reported at Davidson in 1973. The last case reported to campus police took place five years ago, he said. However, that is no indication of the incidence of date-rape at Davidson, he added. Date-rape does occur but is most often not reported, he stated.

According to Hughes, the Davidson campus is otherwise extremely safe. At least two officers patrol the campus at night while most of the campus is well-lit. Moreover, the campus is not often frequented by strangers. Hughes said that the most satisfying aspect of his association with Davidson was that he had contributed to making Davidson the safe place it is now. No officer has ever had to use his weapon, he reported proudly. The fact that the last serious offence occurred five years ago bears testimony to the excellent job done by Hughes and his team. Commenting on the type of crime committed at Davidson, Hughes said that the most serious case he had handled involved a student being shot several years ago. A stolen car was another major crime that he recalled.

About Davidson’s alcohol policy, Hughes remarked that those in charge of alcohol on Patterson Court were doing a commendable job. Although he admitted that minors often consumed alcohol, the situation has never gotten out of hand. He and his team had never had to make citations regarding the consumption of alcohol by minors to State authorities. Hughes strongly believes that Davidson has no alcohol problems.

Several couples participated in a forum on changing gender roles in marriage last Thursday. They were: Back row, Sam Spencer, Barbara Ferguson, and professor of political science Mary Thornberry; front row, Ava Spencer, Bob Dyer, and Giddy Dyer. Photo By Ed Matthews

Jackie Hughes will retire this year as Public Safety Director. Photo Courtesy of College Relations

Although Hughes retires as police chief this week, he will serve on the force until June. He expressed his willingness to help whenever needed. Ray Thrower will replace Hughes as police chief.