THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990

Professor Marcon Urges Less Structured Early Learning

By TINA SMITH

“Make kindergarten, kindergarten again,” says Rebecca A. Marcon, visiting assistant professor of psychology at Davidson College. Marcon is calling for
changes in the way parents, teachers, and school administrators view learning and child development in pre-kindergarten and kindergarten.

In 1987, the District of Columbia Public School System asked Marcon to evaluate pre-kindergarten programs and target areas which either
strengthened or weakened a child’s path to success in later years. In the resulting three-year study, Marcon found that children
in an “active learning” environment rated better in basic skills mastery and developmental areas such as communication, language development, motor
development, daily living skills, and interpersonal skills than their counterparts in teacher-directed academic groups. Teacher-directed groups lacked social skills early
on and slipped even further behind as they progressed through school.

The study originated from growing concerns of parents, community members, and District of Columbia officials over the high failure rates
of economically disadvantaged students at the first-grade level. All of these students had attended free, public pre-kindergarten programs.

Although similar studies had been done, Marcon’s project was unique because it took place in actual classroom settings under less-than-ideal
circumstances. Previous studies had been conducted in a university lab environment with low student-teacher ratios and adequate materials needed for
success.

“In early childhood learning, which spans from birth through third grade, there is a big controversy whether or not to
stress teacher-directed academics, which parents expect, or a more child-centered active-learning approach,” Marcon said. “Children aren’t sacrificing academic skills using
the more active-learning model,” Marcon said. “It’s not academic versus non-academic. In both models, children are learning. The important difference
is whether it’s the children or the teacher who are initiating or directing the learning. If the activity for the
day is making Kool-Aid, for instance, in a teacher-directed classroom the teacher stands at the front of the class and
demonstrates how to make Kool-Aid. Then, all the children are allowed to taste it. In the more active model, materials
are set up at learning centers and the children have to figure out how to make the Kool-Aid themselves. In
this way, they actively learn the use of fractions and proportions - what the effects are if they put in
too much sugar or too much water.”

But Marcon acknowledges that a switch to this type of learning won't be easy. “It’s going to take a lot
of work to re-orient teachers, parents, and others involved in a child’s educational progress,” she said. Neither will it come
cheaply. Last year the District of Columbia greatly expanded its budget for early childhood programs in providing more effective classroom
materials. But Marcon believes it is a worthwhile investment. She pointed out that getting children interested in learning early on
can avoid a host of problems later, and cited a University of Michigan study which shows that every dollar spent
in early childhood programs saves six dollars later in areas such as special education, and keeps down delinquency, drop-out, and
teen pregnancy rates.

Facts like those make her work of vital interest not only to District of Columbia school system policy makers, but
also to the U.S. Department of Education and other national groups advocating for young children. Marcon said few schools have
a pre-kindergarten system as extensive as the one in the District of Columbia. Rather than beginning pre-kindergarten programs, Marcon believes
most school systems should work on modifying their already-existing kindergarten programs.

“Kindergarten does not need to be first grade,” Marcon said. “If you focus only on academics you are ignoring vital
other parts of that child. School curriculums should center on developing the whole child. If the home and the community
don’t in the urban community and schools fail to address the issue, where will those children learn to cope?”

She added that the active learning model is beneficial not only to economically disadvantaged children, but is also valuable for
children from all socioeconomic levels. Marcon’s future plans include follow-up work on the same District of Columbia classes.Key education transition
points to see how many students in her groups are on grade level or have dropped out. She may also
expand her study to other populations of children. Marcon received her B.A. in psychology from California State University of Fullerton.
After receiving her master’s degree in counseling and school psychology from UCLA, she worked for the Los Angeles County School
System as a school psychologist. Marcon earned her Ph.D. in developmental psychology from Louisiana State University and began teaching at
Davidson in 1989.

Photo Courtesy of College Relations

CASE Professor of the Year Anthony Aveni will speak on Mayan Astronomy on Tuesday, November 13 in the 900 Room.

Lecturer To Speak On Mayan Astronomy
By PHIDERIKA FOUST

Mayan priest-astronomers carefully watched the planet Venus, clocking its motion to an accuracy of better than two hours in five
centuries—all without the advantage of modern technology. What drove them to such precision? What methods did they use? These questions
will be addressed by Anthony F. Aveni, the “founding father” of the field of archaeoastronomy, in a lecture on “Skywatchers
in Ancient Mexico.” He will speak at Davidson College on Tuesday, Nov. 13, at 7:30 p.m. in the College Union
900 Room.

Archaeological studies of the Mayan culture of Central America have shown that the Mayan rulers were obsessed with the study
of time, calendars, and astronomy. Aveni will attempt to convey an understanding and appreciation of Mayan calendar documents, hieroglyphic writing,
and the role of astronomical orientations in Mayan architecture.

Aveni is the Russell B. Colgate Professor of Astronomy and Anthropology at Colgate University. He has published and lectured extensively,
and in 1982 he won the National Professor of the Year Award from the Council for the Advancement and Support
of Education. His Davidson presentation is a part of the Wearn Lecture Series. The Wearn Lecture is named in honor
of Dr. Joseph T. Wearn ’13 for the purpose of creating influential learning opportunities for Davidson students. The lecturer is
chosen every year for outstanding accomplishments in the sciences or for exceptional statesmanship. For more information about the lecture, contact
the College Union at 892-2140.

Casolo, Arrested by Salvadoran Government, Speaks at Davidson
Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

When Connecticut woman Jennifer Casolo moved to El Salvador in 1985 to represent Christian Education Seminars, she knew there was
a risk involved with living in a country engaged in civil war. She will speak at Davidson College on Sunday,
Nov. 11, about just how dangerous it became for her. Her free public lecture begins at 7:30 p.m. in the
College Union 900 Room.

On Nov. 26, 1989, Casolo was arrested in a raid by the Salvadoran police, who said they found a large
cache of arms and ammunition buried in the garden in the backyard of her rented home. She was deported two
weeks later after a military judge ordered her released for lack of evidence. Casolo worked in El Salvador for four
years organizing tours for Americans so they could learn about the civil war between the rebels and the government. The
security officers making her arrest reportedly acted on a tip from a captured rebel. Casolo claimed not to know how
the goods got there. Casolo has insisted that she must have been set up, probably by those opposing the church
group as rebels.

During her stay in prison in El Salvador, Sen. Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee’s panel on Latin American affairs, talked several times with El Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani about the case. Dodd
said that he did not threaten Cristiani with a possible cutoff of American aid. However, because Dodd was chairman of
the panel which oversees American aid to El Salvador, which was $1.4 million a day at the time, he had
considerable leverage over the situation. Cristiani said that the decision to free Casolo was purely judicial and not based on
international pressure. However, he did later acknowledge that there are “obviously a lot of repercussions when foreigners are taken prisoner.”

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC LECTURES 1990-91
WEARN LECTURE
DR. ANTHONY AVENI
COLGATE UNIVERSITY
"SKY WATCHERS OF ANCIENT MEXICO"
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13
7:30 P.M. - 900 ROOM

"Listening to Aveni is like voyaging to a distant galaxy - a fascinating journey of the mind.”
