THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

TRENT STEVENS, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor

Founded in 1914

HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor
PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager

"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
CHRIS KELLY, Business Manager

We're in the Army Now?

The three-year-old temper tantrum tactics of Bob Collins are frankly unwelcome in the Davidson family. Collins is the new Director of Facilities Planning who joined us from The Citadel, and as far as doing his job, not many can say that he has been slothful. But forget what he has done for the moment. Forget the new parking lots and much-needed Patterson Court house renovations. Forget every accomplishment of this man because every accomplishment has been negated by the manner in which he practically screams at others as if he were the drill sergeant and they were the worthless private.

For example, when Collins condemned the SAE Ratice recently, he entered during lunch, breezed past everyone, and told the cooks to leave, that the place was unfit to eat a meal. The house was, in fact, unsanitary, but Collins ignored the students at the house. He assumed they were allowing the garbage of the night-before party to ferment due to laziness. Since he didn’t ask questions, he didn’t know that the house had not been cleaned at that point because students had classes in the morning and couldn’t clean until the afternoon. When he met with members of the house and discussed the issue cool-headedly, agreements were made--diplomatically. Rumor even has it that Collins recently condemned his wife’s kitchen because she left some pots on the counter.

It is obvious that our new Facilities Planner wants to be taken seriously. It is obvious that much-needed jobs are being completed because of him. And this is good. Things are getting done. Therefore, we know you are serious. So lighten up. You’re not at The Citadel anymore; you’re in Davidson. Take off your uniform and put your whip away.

-m.p.

Letters

Towing Dudes Want Pickup

To the Editors:

I was so thrilled by your erudite article, “The Wreckers of Autumn” (The Davidsonian, September 13, 1990). We at the Texaco receive very little public recognition, and seeing our name in print was very gratifying. However, several of your insinuations require clarification.

Referring to us as “towing dudes” seems to indicate truly “together Nineties” kind of guys. Alas, I’m afraid we’re just not at all modish fellows; we’d be more aptly described as anachronisms locked in the Fifties. Your article further indicated that we'll spend our wealth gained from towing to purchase a new, red Lamborghini, spinning about the streets of Davidson, sounding the horn and waving gleefully before speeding away to a new home on the lake.

A red Lamborghini? Hardly. I’d probably prefer a new pickup truck in an earth-tone shade of brown or green, a truck for hauling trees and shrubs from the nursery, one in which I could transport my dog to the vet and perhaps stop in and buy him a cone of ice cream; he loves vanilla. And as for a new home on the lake, I’m afraid I’m just not the gregarious type suited for lake life; I’d likely opt for a rural home set amid acres of trees.

So, I now suppose most of your misconceptions have been corrected. In doing so, I hope I haven’t diminished the level of gratitude all of us at the Texaco feel for your providing us with recognition through the mighty, printed word.

Sincerely,
September 19, 1990
FRANKIE ARCHER
Archer's Texaco

On Towing and Directories

To the Editors:

I would have called, but I couldn’t find your number. I saw the Texaco guy about to tow your car.

Sincerely,
September 18, 1990a directory.

NEIL HAYES '91

Baxter Wrong to Accuse Collins

To the Editors:

We are writing in response to Jared Baxter’s article last week concerning Bob Collins. While Mr. Baxter is correct in his assertion that many of the issues facing the SGA this year do involve Mr. Collins, he is wrong to associate our new physical plant director with the enforcement of parking regulations. We hope that Mr. Baxter will take more care in researching his articles in the future.

Also, we, as the chairpersons of the SGA Security Committee, are encouraged by the marked improvement in the lighting situation on campus (including in the new parking lot). Like Mr. Baxter, we wish the improvements could be made instantaneously, but these things do take time and money (hence the decision to fabricate rather than buy the light poles). Thanks to Mr. Collins’ “comparison shopping,” Davidson will be able to install a greater number of lights in the near future. We feel that Mr. Collins is doing an outstanding job for the college and are appreciative of his efforts.

Sincerely,
September 25, 1990
KIM SHORT ‘91
MARY DEMPSTER ‘92
SGA Security Committee Chairpersons

Columnist Crystal Close-Minded

To the Editors:

Maybe we just misunderstood the point you were trying to make in your opinions article last week, Mr. Crystal, but we thought that Sara's article had some good things to say about being able to "do your own thing,” and that yours sounded like a very close-minded sexist backlash at something we didn't even find offensive.

Sincerely,
MARLO COBB '91
KELLY PETOSKEY '91

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Thursday during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Jared Baxter

Semesters to Get Longer?

Every student is about to be thoroughly shafted!! On October 5th the faculty will accept a semester schedule which will add another week to your semester. Does this make you annoyed, angry? Well I am! There’s not one ounce of logic behind this. They want to: start fall classes on Monday instead of Tuesday; axe a day from our fall break; axe a day from our Thanksgiving break; completely abolish our reading day; shorten our exam period from seven to five days; and then they have the audacity to expect us back in school on January 4th!! This is ridiculous. Come on teachers, are you thinking at all? This is absolutely inhumane.

We’re in the sixth week right now -- and I’m swamped! My entire existence has been centered on fall break when I’ll hopefully be able to catch my breath. I’m tired, overworked and stressed out -- and I know damn well I’m not the only one. If you expect our best work, you have to give us the environment to produce it in. And grinding our spines into powder by relentlessly piling on the work is no way to do it.

Well, before the widespread panic, anarchy and lynchings start, this proposal is for the 1992-93 school year. But it’s going to be passed on Oct. 5th, so we have to act now!! My first reactions were along the lines of sit-ins, picket lines, a few assassinations, bombings, who knows, maybe even towing all the teachers' cars to Halifax, Nova Scotia.

However, on Monday, October 1st, there will be a Semester Forum sponsored by the S.G.A. in the Morrison Room. This is tentative right now since I’m writing this article on Monday, Sept. 24th -- but watch for the flyers, they’ll have the exact time and date. This forum will be like the Minus Grades Forum of last year, except that the teachers haven’t passed this new semester yet, and we still have time to act. Don’t let this go the way of minus grades -- act now before this plan actually gets passed, don’t wait until 1992.