Wednesday, February 7, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Mandela may be freed, says South Africa's de Klerk; 100,000 demonstrate in U.S.S.R.

By CAROL GATEWOOD and CAROLINE WILSON

BULGARIA: In hopes of strengthening its position before free elections in May, the ruling Communist Party of Bulgaria met last
weekend and chose a new leader. In a unanimous vote, Andrei Lukanov was elected to serve until the May elections.
Lukanov is a former minister of trade, and his election along with a “new program of change” signals an attempt
by the Communists to maintain a gradual program of reform that will allow criticism and adjustment without violence and revolution.

USSR: On Sunday, 100,000 demonstrators marched through the streets in front of the Kremlin carrying banners and demanded that the
Communist government “surrender its monopoly of power.” In what was the largest unofficial demonstration in 60 years, the ralliers continued
the cries for democratic institutional reforms that have swept across Warsaw Pact nations in recent months. The rally came on
the day before a critical meeting of the Central Committee where Gorbachev proposed that the party relinquish its total control
over the electoral system and recognize private property. As events have unraveled rapidly in Eastern Europe, Gorbachev now has to
accommodate the sense of revolution and frustration in his own people. According to The New York Times, if Gorbachev succeeds
with his proposals, he “will then be ready to begin his ultimate escape: jumping free of his place atop the
Communist Party before that institution falls of its own dying weight.” At the same time, he wants to maintain a
legitimate role as the president of the Soviet Union and increase “an elected legislature as a stable power center.” In
essence, Gorbachev is having to strengthen governmental institutions that will withstand decreased Communist party power.

If Gorbachev does not succeed in doing this, the increased instability that would occur could drive hard-liners to assert themselves
and clamp down on the reforms that have already occurred.

SOUTH AFRICA: President F.W. de Klerk last week continued to loosen some of South Africa’s strict apartheid policies. These included
legalizing the African National Congress, placing a moratorium on executions, and easing restrictions on individuals and groups involved in the
anti-apartheid movement. In the midst of these concessions, expectations have grown that Nelson Mandela, the imprisoned leader of the ANC,
will finally be released. The policy changes are important because they fulfill some of the ANC’s major political demands for
a significant role in the South African government. Mandela insists that he will not leave jail until the country’s state
of emergency is lifted. He has other demands.

EASTERN EUROPE: On Sunday, the leaders of East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Poland met in Switzerland to debate about
the future of Europe. The debate was organized by the World Economic Forum and centered on the democratic reforms taking
place, the presence of Soviet troops, and “the problem of ethnic minorities.”

Also discussed were issues revolving around the German reunification question, including that all countries in Europe should have an input
into the steps toward German reunification, and that a single Germany will upset the balance of power in Europe. German
reunification will continue to be an issue in Europe.

Honor Code and Code of Responsibility Violations January — December 1989

Honor Code Violations — Total cases: 9
6 cases handled by Honor Council
— one case received censure, restitution, and letter of apology
— four cases received two-term suspensions and censure
— one case received one-term suspension and censure

3 cases handled by Dean of Students
— two cases received two-term suspensions
— one case received indefinite suspension

Code of Responsibility

2 cases handled by Honor Council — verdicts were not guilty
— one case, Sections III, IV, V, IX — the sanction was two-term suspension, restitution, counseling, censure
— two cases, sanctions were censure, social probation, letter of apology

Dean of Students — Total cases: 12
— Six cases involving Section IV — sanctions were community service and restitution and in one case an additional sanction
of alcohol probation
— Three cases involved Section VII — sanction was a fine
— One case involving Section V involved censure, apology, and alcohol counseling
— One case, Section VI, involved censure, restitution, fine, community service
— One case involving Section V involved drug counseling, restitution, and community service

*These cases were handled by the Dean of Students in conjunction with the student advisory committee which meets each week
to advise the Dean of the sanction to be imposed. This practice was initiated in August, 1989.
