LO Wednesday, February 14, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson’s Trustees ignored South Africa
Monroe Gilmour

Over the past five years, Davidson faculty, students, alumni, and individual Trustees have unsuccessfully urged the Davidson Board of Trustees to divest college funds from companies doing business in South Africa. Today, the unbanning of the African National Congress and other developments are credited to the combination of effective pressure inside South Africa and international sanctions. Had those sanctions been stronger, we would have seen recent developments much sooner.

Just as it was slow to move on civil rights in the 1960s, Davidson College as an institution cannot claim to have been part of the pressure today in South Africa. It is not too late for the Trustees to act. The black leadership in South Africa continues to urge sanctions so as to maintain pressure on the white-minority government until the transition to a democratic society is complete. Given their past intransigence, I will not hold my breath waiting on the Trustees to do so. But I do think that the Trustees should at least consider an apartheid issue closer to home.

A draft resolution has been submitted by alumni to the Trustees for their consideration. The resolution resolves that the Trustees “will not meet in plenary, committee, or individual session for the purpose of discussing college business or entertaining, or socializing or any other reason in country clubs or other institutions that, in practice, discriminate by reason of race, religion, or sex.” The resolution also prohibits logistical or other support to college or alumni groups which hold functions in such institutions.

Anyone who read the Sunday, February 4, 1990 Charlotte Observer article on the continuing discrimination by Charlotte and North Carolina country clubs will hopefully concur that passing such a resolution will ensure that Davidson College lives up to its ideals in action as well as on paper. I urge Davidson students, faculty, and staff to let President Kuykendall know that we want this resolution or one to the same effect passed at the February Trustee meeting.

Monroe Gilmour, Jr. '68
Davidson Alumni Against Apartheid

Draft Resolution
November 24, 1989
For Consideration By Davidson College Trustees

WHEREAS, as we noted in our 3/31/88 resolution, “Davidson College has a historic and continuing commitment to the causes of justice and righteousness in human affairs, emphasizing ‘...those studies, disciplines, and activities which liberate humankind physically, mentally, spiritually.’”, and

WHEREAS, we Davidson College Trustees through various resolutions have expressed our abhorrence of the practice of racial separation or apartheid in South Africa, and

WHEREAS, we recognize the importance similarly of expressing and then acting upon our abhorrence of forms of racial separation or apartheid in our own current and local communities, and

WHEREAS, The Charlotte Observer has correctly editorialized on April 17, 1989 that educational institutions should not be “partners in prejudice” by memberships or holding events in country clubs and other social clubs that, in practice, discriminate by reason of race, religion, or sex, and

WHEREAS, we recognize the important role Davidson College plays in setting academic and ethical standards in our community,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Davidson College Board of Trustees as follows:

1. That the Davidson College Board of Trustees will not meet in plenary, committee, or individual session for the purpose of discussing college business or entertaining, or socializing or any other reason in country clubs or other institutions that, in practice, discriminate by reason of race, religion, or sex.

2. That Davidson College will not encourage or lend any kind of support to college or alumni groups that hold functions or meetings in institutions that discriminate by reason of race, religion, or sex.

3. That a review committee be established consisting of one representative from the Board of Trustees, one representative from the faculty, and one representative from the student body to monitor and report on the implementation of this resolution.faculty, the students, and the alumni to review complaints and recommend action on the Davidson College development project. Positive steps seen: President who will carry out enforcement, appeal being brought before the Trustees for consideration. For CARE in Lesotho, this month translates a southern African country surrounded by South Africa into the actual abolition of apartheid. 

4. That this resolution be effective upon its adoption THIS THE __.

Personally, given NS q Letters Correcting Egyptian “little known facts”

Dear Davidsonian Editors:

A few notes regarding some alleged “little known facts” presented in Jennifer Sieck’s article on Mr. Anthony T. Browder’s recent lecture (The Davidsonian, 31 January 1990):

- Kmt means “the black land” or the land fertilized by the Nile river’s annual floods, as opposed to dsrt, “the red land” or the desert (for a vivid photograph see A. Rosalie David, The Egyptian Kingdoms [New York: Elsevier, 1975] p.10). Kmt does not mean “the land of the black [people].”
- Nowhere in its definition of “Egypt” does Liddell-Scott-Jones, the standard dictionary of ancient Greek, say anything about black people.
- Egypt contains more than seventy pyramids, not nine (Ahmed Fakhry, The Pyramids, 2nd ed. [Chicago: U of Chicago Press, 1969] p. 1). The pyramids are not the world’s first buildings; they are not even the first buildings in Egypt.
- Though robbers long ago removed the human remains, pyramids were used for burials, not as observatories. Their architectural history shows a clear development from the earlier burial structures known as mastabas, and many of them still contain sarcophagi (stone coffins). See Fakhry.
- The sphinx, part of the pyramid complex of King Khafre, dates to the Fourth Dynasty or approximately 2600-2500 BCE. It is therefore less than 5000 years old, not over 10,000. It is not “the oldest sculpture on earth”; it is not even the oldest sculpture in Egypt.
- El Makrizi, an Arab historian who died in 1436, says that one Saim-el-Dahr disfigured the sphinx’s face, centuries before Napoleon brought his army (and a large team of scholars) to Egypt (Fakhry 159). No doubt Napoleon’s soldiers had some target practice while in Egypt, but are we really to believe that the French general ordered his soldiers to engage in massive destruction in order to conceal the Egyptians’ racial identity?

Old statues frequently suffer, tending particularly to lose their vulnerable extremities. This observation applies to statues in all ancient countries, not just in Egypt. There remain many intact Egyptian statues, as well as reliefs carved in stone and paintings on the walls of tombs, from which one may judge the Egyptians’ race.

Rescuing and reconstructing African-American history accurately is important. I hope that Davidson College will soon have a qualified faculty member who can offer courses in African-American history.

Sincerely,
Peter Krentz

Clarifying women’s self-defense seminar

To the Editors,

I would like to clarify two points concerning the publicity for the Women’s Security Seminar. First, the seminar will be held at 7 p.m., NOT 7:30 p.m. as printed in the SGA minutes. Second, the main reason men are not invited to the seminar is that according to Officer Frances Taylor, the presence of men in past seminars, both here at Davidson as well as other colleges in the area, has inhibited discussion (not prohibited as printed in the SGA minutes). Officer Taylor, recently voted “Number One Employee,” is an experienced police officer, and I am certain her request was not made without reason.

Many “women’s issues” are ones that concern both women and men. However, this seminar’s primary purpose is to inform women of what they can do to prevent rape and what to do should it happen to them. Perhaps some men here at Davidson are considering showing up anyway, if only out of curiosity. My hope is that they will heed Officer Taylor’s request. She is taking time out of her evening schedule to present this seminar and I hope the men here will respect that by not attending. Instead, I urge all the men to encourage...

See WHY WOMEN, page 12