THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1990

Photo by Chris Lee

Don Reasoner spent the last seven years in Nicaragua. Recently he spoke at Davidson.

Reasoner Reflects On "Tragic" U.S. Policy
By JAY CHAUDHURI

In his short-sleeved cotton striped shirt and blue pants, Don Reasoner sits comfortably in his chair. The air-conditioning hums and the weather is pleasant outside. Reasoner is no longer in Nicaragua. After spending seven years in the humid country of Nicaragua, Reasoner is currently training in Atlanta to become a Methodist missionary there. Recently, he visited Davidson to discuss the “The Sandinista Revolution in Nicaragua.” The lecture was sponsored by the Dean Rusk program, the Committee on Public Lectures, and the History department.

“In Nicaragua there was a shortage of food,” commented Reasoner, who experienced a period of culture shock after returning to the U.S. “Going into the grocery store here I see everything in overabundance. I am depressed at the level of materialism.”

Reasoner’s visit to Davidson stemmed from the contact made by professors David Kaylor and Brian Shaw, who organized the trip to Guatemala and Nicaragua last May that included 15 Davidson students and faculty members. Reasoner was one of the several lecturers who spoke to the group. He has established the Center for International Dialogue in Nicaragua and briefed scores of groups coming to the country. Reasoner also has numerous personal contacts with Nicaraguans of all political persuasions and walks of life.

Reasoner sees the current political situation in Nicaragua as being “very explosive” as a result of failed government promises and the contras, who still have arms. “If the situation explodes,” said Reasoner, “it will not be the same war. There will be a reshifting of alliances.” Many contras, for example, feel more disillusioned with UNO (the coalition Nicaraguan government) than the Sandinistas. The principal conflict in the scenario is the demand for land reform. “You have 50,000-60,000 peasants who are hungry and have no land. With the government taking land from the peasants and giving it to landowners, the explosive situation is worse,” said Reasoner.

The U.S., according to Reasoner, “has been committing a historic and tragic mistake.” With the election of the Reagan administration, the government reasserted U.S. domination of the world as its policy rather than observing what the Sandinistas were doing. “A lot of the U.S. policy was based on geopolitical symbolism,” said Reasoner. “I feel Reagan and others saw it as a zero-sum equation: our loss, the Soviet’s gain. If the contras would have won the war, we would have had a bloodbath that would have made Chile look small. The Sandinistas were not anti-American, but anti-imperialists. The U.S. policy promotes more instability. U.S. interests lose out in the long and short term.”

Reasoner’s perspective on Nicaragua’s problem developed from the international atmosphere in which he was raised. As Professor Ralph Levering of history notes, “Don was born international.” Reasoner grew up in Brazil where his parents were Presbyterian missionaries. After graduating with a

Continued on Page 4

Panel Holds Discussion On Women's Issues In Politics
By SANDRA SMITH

The sobering truth about women’s issues in politics is reported by the Women’s Agenda Project of N.C. Equity, a center for public policy research and advocacy for women. The Project says that in the United States the greatest cause of injury to women is domestic abuse, inadequate public health leaves four million women without contact with family planners, and women and children are the fastest growing segment of the homeless population. According to the Project, the United States is one of only two industrialized nations not having partially paid maternally-related benefits. South Africa is the other.

The women and men who attended last Thursday night’s panel discussion on women’s issues in politics were urged to understand the importance of how these and other concerns facing women are political issues. The focus of the discussion, sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee, was on how local, state, and federal governments are addressing women’s issues such as medical care, child care, abortion, and equality in the workplace, and how interest groups such as the Women’s Political Caucus and the N.C. Women’s Legislative Agenda are working for appropriate legislation and funding.

Members of the panel included June Kimmel, regional director of the N.C. Council on the Status of Women, professor Tom Kazee of the Political Science department at Davidson, and Rollin Shaw, county commissioner of Cumberland County. According to the panel, budget restraints are the primary block towards funding most programs, but monetary resources are not the only deterrent to mandating legislation on women’s issues. Bills such as the recently vetoed CivilRights Bill and the Family and Medical Leave Act required no increase in budget expenditures if passed. Shaw stated that there is a lack of a sense of urgency among lawmakers concerning women’s issues. All three panelists agreed on the necessity for organized efforts such as the Women’s Agenda Project to work for support on women’s concerns, particularly at the state level where most women’s issues are legislated. Kazee stressed the power of the voter on election day and stated most confidently that if advocates want results, they should vote for the Democratic Party, which has traditionally responded more sympathetically towards women’s issues.

Local Ministries Review Survey of Poverty In "The Other Charlotte”
By LISA GERRARD

It was a difficult decision, but it opened his eyes to another side of town. Last winter, a Charlotte lawyer agreed to help with a survey in three low-income neighborhoods in Charlotte. In the first home he visited, a two-room duplex, he saw five children, aged seven or under, huddled around a kerosene heater with their 22-year-old mother and her boyfriend, who were both out of work. “It was a real eye-opener,” he said, “one that I think will help me in our church’s housing committee in trying to tackle some of the problems that these communities face.”

The lawyer was one of several volunteers who helped the recently Davidson graduate Douglas Hicks and Economics professor Charles Ratliff with their study on poverty in the Queen City early this year. Ratliff used the results to write “Poverty in the Midst of Plenty,” a poignant profile of Charlotte’s poor. His report was recently distributed to 105 churches at a meeting of the interdenominational organization Mecklenburg Ministries. A spokesperson for Mecklenburg Ministries said, “We hope that congregations, in reading the report, will see the real human needs in Charlotte.”

Ratliff’s report delves into statistics of the “other Charlotte,” compiling data from 63 randomly chosen households in Belmont, Seversville, and Wilmore, three low-income neighborhoods in downtown Charlotte. “Respondents realize that they live in the ‘other Charlotte’ and are fully aware that conditions in other areas of the ‘royal’ city are much better,” said Ratliff.

A firm believer in the power of religious groups to combat poverty, Ratliff wrote that “Judeo-Christian institutions can make a tremendous contribution by making members aware of the problems of poverty...proposing solutions...and facilitating a grassroots, groundswell movement to direct social change.” Nearly a tenth of the citizens in the county are estimated to live on incomes below the official poverty threshold, said Ratliff, but Mecklenburg boasts the highest per capita income of any county in the state, at $18,900 in 1988, and it has one of the nation’s lowest unemployment rates, at 2.8 percent in August 1990.

The gap between Charlotte’s rich and poor has long concerned this “country-boy” professor from Anson County. Ratliff’s work with Mecklenburg Ministries and other community action groups has taken him into neighborhoods that startle and depress him. “It takes me a while to get over what I’ve seen each time I go into one of these homes,” he said. Almost half of the households involved in the study fell below the poverty line. A third of the group continued on Page 4.

Noted Hispanic-American Poet Mora To Read Her Work
By JIMMY JACKSON

Pat Mora, an acclaimed Hispanic-American poet, lecturer, teacher, and consultant, will be visiting the Davidson College campus on Thursday, Nov. 8. The public is invited to hear her read from her work at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 room of the College Union.

Mora, who lives in Cincinnati, is one of the foremost Hispanic-American writers of her time. She has published two award-winning books of poems, Chants (1983) and Borders (1987). She has also authored three children’s books, the latest of which will be published within the next year. Her work is widely represented in collections of Hispanic-American literature.

Mora’s work reflects the traditional flair of her Hispanic ancestors. She uses easy-to-understand phrases along with colloquial language in her work. Elizabeth Mills, a Davidson English professor, knows Mora well and says that the poet “is an outgoing woman with a great sense of humor.” Mills said, “Mora takes simple experiences and makes them mean something to everyone in the audience. She writes about the things that truly matter but are sometimes overlooked. Her cultural diversity brings a different perspective to her work.” Mills calls her “an entertaining and surprising orator and an excellent storyteller.”

Among other awards, Mora has received the Leader in Education Award from El Paso Women’s Employment and Education Inc., and the Chicano/Hispano Faculty and Professional Staff Association Award for outstanding contribu- Continued on Page 4.