14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

Photo courtesy of Davidsonian Photography Staff
Davidson's Peter Cobb demonstrates style and skill with a chest trap.

Women's Soccer Ready To Score

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

Davidson’s first season of women’s soccer last fall was nothing short of a phenomenal success. The team played to a 4-7-1 record, amazing for a first-year team, and finished ranked 9th in the NCAA South. This year, the Wildcats ought to be improved, but will also be faced with a more difficult schedule, including games against Vanderbilt and Top 20 teams Duke and William and Mary.

The ‘Cats are blessed with an experienced group of returning players, headed by senior co-captain and leading scorer Lindsey Forsythe. Juniors Maria Tucker and Liz Clarke and sophomore Ann Todd provided much of the scoring punch a year ago. Coach Diane Boettcher also has brought in “a lot of very promising players” in a deep recruiting class. Freshman Colleen Camaione and Carie Stanley are likely starters at fullback and freshman Courtney Robertson will handle the chores at goalie. In the midfield, Jennifer Satterfield, Davidson’s first woman scholarship recipient, has been as good as advertised, and will probably hold down the center mid spot.

According to Boettcher, “Last year our trademark was very strong attacking for a first-year team; we'll concentrate a little bit more on defending this year.” And though off to a “disappointing” start (a 3-0 loss to Mercer), excitement and expectations are high. The team hopes to play itself once again into the Top 10 in the South.

Good News For Volleyball

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

After struggling through a difficult, 12-20 season last fall, the Davidson volleyball program needed some good news. Fortunately, during the offseason it came in large quantities. First came a spring break team trip to the Bahamas and the chance to improve in a “pressure-free environment” against the Bahamas’ National and Junior National teams and their best club teams. Next came the news that women athletes would receive scholarship money. Freshman Amy Howard of Amarillo, Texas is Davidson’s May union with the Big South Conference. Davidson volleyball will contend for the conference championship this season.

So, the stage is set for a marked turnaround. Once again, the Wildcats will be led by junior co-captains Holt Hathaway, a setter, and middle hitter Mimi Plauche. According to coach Rebecca Hawkins, sophomore middle hitter Jennie Wagner and junior outside hitter Christy Knight have been “playing particularly well,” and will be counted on to contribute.

Last year’s trying campaign was characterized by an inability to win the big point or the crucial game. “This year,” says Hawkins, “I think we’ll win those games.” Coastal Carolina is a perennially tough team and should be the favorite to win the conference title, but Hawkins considers her team a “contender right now” for the crown. “I want to see us make the big play... and outsmart the other team. If we do that, the other things will fall in line.”

Young Men's Team Strong

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

Davidson soccer comes off an 8-11-1 season, and must fill the holes left by four graduated starters, among them Academic All-American Tracy Hankins. As a result, the youth movement is on. Coach Charlie Slagle will start five sophomores, and nine freshmen and sophomores are among his top fifteen players. Fortunately, though, the Wildcats are blessed with experienced upperclassmen at four vital positions. Senior goalie and co-captain Scott Zucker, senior stopper and co-captain Ross Saldarini, junior center forward Rob Ukrop, and junior sweeper Lance Long all possess bountiful experience and talent. The ‘Cats will also be aided by the fact that many of the sophomores played a lot last year, notably midfielders Matt Spear and Lance Kinerk and striker Phelps Sprinkle.

This season, Davidson begins Big South play against a limited number of conference teams, and will participate in the Big South Conference Tournament. The schedule also includes matchups with several Division I powers, including Duke, North Carolina, and South Carolina.

Coach Slagle predicted that the team will “have some ups and downs, but will be able to play with almost anybody,” and that prediction has already been fulfilled. The Wildcats began the season with an impressive win at Richmond, but followed it up with a “lackluster” performance in a loss to conference foe UNC-Asheville. Without a doubt, the team will be competitive. Though Davidson cannot be considered a favorite to win the conference title, Slagle says, “My goal is to win it and I’ll be disappointed if we don’t.”

Men's Cross-Country Looking to Win

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

Davidson cross-country comes off a season that could only be termed a success. And despite the loss to graduation of frontrunners David Murray and Jay Clugston, the team is left with a solid pack of very good runners, with just one senior among them. Add to that a quality recruiting class of impact freshmen, and the potential for success is overwhelming.

And if Saturday’s Open/Alumni Meet was any indication, that success could be immediate. Junior Chris Otrok won the race, closely followed by sophomore David Kerns, but the real story was the group that followed. Six runners finished within the next minute, a closely knit pack opposing teams will find hard to break apart. In the words of coach Gary Andrew, “the depth of the team is vastly improved.”

The secret of that improvement seems to be constant, year-round training.

Photo courtesy of Davidsonian Photography Staff
Women's Soccer's Lindsey Forsythe in action.