8 Wednesday, January 31, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

(In Good Health By MARK D. PUCKETT

Exercising is like checking your mail—day after day you fritter away good time trudging to the post office where you are greeted more than likely by an empty box. When you work out all the time you never really notice your gains until one day, it pays off. You look in the mirror and see a new muscle. You look in the mirror and see that the fat on your thighs has disappeared. You climb the stairs and you are not out of breath when you reach the top. One day, the check is in the mail.

The next time you’re making out an errand list, it should look something like this:

New Things That I Must Do Today To Make Myself Feel as if I Have Actually Had a Busy Day
1) Go to the post office.
2) Drop off laundry.
3) Pick up laundry.
4) Go to the bank.
5) Go to the bookstore.
6) Going to a go-go.
7) Go fish.
8) Go exercise.

Chances are, you won’t do everything on the list. Who cares? Sorry, I just read the first part of this article and, boy, is it stupid. The reason, I think, is because I didn’t have a thesis statement when I started writing and now I’m paying for it. Nobody should have to read something that doesn’t have a thesis—it’s not fair. Well, I have dug a hole and as my grandfather always said, “When you dig a hole, it’s a hole; when you fill it back up, it’s not a hole anymore.” Therefore, I’m starting over with a new name: IN GREAT HEALTH.

This week, I have some tips, which will follow after this made you look. Okay, here they are—oops, I guess they’re in invisible ink. HA HA, got you again. Monkeys always look. The fact is that there are no tips. The tips died in a car accide—hey, let go ... leave me alone. I’m sorry, but I was just robbed. Thanks a lot. I better stop. I’m playing around too much. Here are the tips; they didn’t die in a car accident. Here they are:

1) Always keep moving during the day.
2) If possible, try to eat four or five small meals a day as opposed to three large meals. Large meals take longer to digest, which slows you down.
3) Take the stairs when you go to class, not the elevator.
4) If someone is smoking in the Union, leave. Or plan to die early.
5) Don’t eat cheeseburgers and pizzas at midnight. When you sleep, your body concentrates on sleep, not digestion.
6) Do something at least three times a week. Play basketball with a friend, wrestle your roommate, go for a walk or bike ride on the cross-country trails, play hall soccer. Get off your butt and do something—whatever you want.
7) If I said it once, I’ve said it 100 times: if you’re gonna drink, do it in moderation. If you go beyond moderation, you are a weak person.

Well, I finally got around to those tips and I hope you...enjoyed them as much as I did. I'll see you next week, and if you want any free money before then, just drop by my room and my roommate, Jon Giles, will give it to you. He told me to mention it because he said he had some extra.

Kentucky and Lander both host third-ranked South Carolina in a dual match this Thursday at 5 p.m. in the Knobloch Tennis Center. From Feb. 2-4, Davidson will also host an indoor tennis tournament with players from UNC, USC, and Clemson.

Sports Shorts | Men's tennis keeps busy

Not so long ago, in a galaxy not so far away, America’s number 1 pizza delivery company made students an offer: if your group orders more pizzas than competing groups, you'll win a free pizza party. It’s so easy to play. Call your nearest Domino’s Pizza store for details.

Domino’s Pizza Delivers...

The Rules:
1. Carry-out orders and all deliveries made from your area's Domino's Pizza store will be counted if we are given your group's name and address.
2. Any pizza over $10.00 will be counted twice. Some dorms may be divided or combined at the discretion of Domino's Pizza to make the contest as equal as possible. Call 896-8007 for details.
3. The winning group's name will be published in the local newspaper.
4. The location and time of the party will be convenient to both the winners and Domino's Pizza. The winner will have the choice of items. The pizzas do not have to be the same.

Fast, Free Delivery
Shops on the Green
896-8007
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.
©1986 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

IF YOU WANT A CAREER THAT REALLY FLIES, JOIN AIR FORCE ROTC NOW.

Missile officer? Navigator? Pilot? There are many ways to begin a career that soars. But you should begin now. Air Force ROTC offers both two- and four-year programs for college students. They provide the confidence and leadership ability you need to become an Air Force officer. You may also qualify for scholarship programs that help pay college expenses. For a career that really flies, call CAPT ERIC SEAY 547-4537.

Leadership Excellence Starts Here

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT
Serving the best in traditional Southern foods - The Best Steaks, Chicken Grills, Seafood, Hamburgers, and Fresh Vegetables.

EARLY EATERS' SPECIAL
WEEKDAYS 5-6:30--$4.75

Serving Lunch Tues-Fri.
Lunch Specials 11:00-2:00

Live Entertainment on occasional Wednesdays with Bobby Parker; Thursday and Saturday Nights with Vince Koob, featuring songs of James Taylor, Mike Cross as well as original compositions.

Thursday Night is College Night!
SHOW A COLLEGE I.D. AND GET 1/2 PRICE APPETIZERS AND DISCOUNTS ON BEER

761 N. Main St.
Mooresville
704/663/7322

Come Join In the Fellowship Of the Rafters.