& THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

Davidson students check class schedules for drop-add. 
Photo By Chris Lee

Joe Binns | Music Review

The Pixies: Bossanova

I was pushing 90 miles per hour the entire way back from Charlotte. My fingers were sticky, but my palms were sliding on the wheel as I piloted along 77. I was sweating profusely, and my nervousness must have been obvious to other motorists. I had managed, somehow, to keep the car on the road, and I blew into Davidson consumed and disoriented by my curiosity. Although we had done this more times than there are love songs, it was always different, always new. I tried to envision the scene that was to soon take place. What new twists would there be? I was losing it, so I did my best to suppress the fantasizing and succeeded in calming myself by remembering how “The Pixies’” last album sizzled last time and how it would surely sizzle today.

It didn’t.

When I had finished listening to the album, I sat back unsatisfied, let down. I had let my roommates listen to it, and now I was the laughingstock of the apartment. James managed to escape the hilarity just long enough to utter six words that sent me staggering to the bathroom pretending there was something in my eye. “You paid 15 bucks for that!” I locked the door, sat down on the toilet and cried. Who would have thought that after Surfer Rosa, Come on Pilgrim, and the brilliant Doolittle, that the Pixies would put out a loser. Well, they did, and it is called Bossanova. It seems that the success of Doolittle brought with it the cash needed to inadvertently over-produce this album. It is polished, but polished is not the Pixies. Surfer Rosa, Come on Pilgrim is as rough as they come, and on it the Pixies are in their element. Bossanova was recorded in Dolby R (Roughness Reduction) and some of the things that gave them their identity are filtered out. Black Francis’s trademark screaming fits are filtered out except on “Rock Music.” Kim Deal’s Primitivesque voice is woefully under-used and the unique and mind-boggling guitar licks/style of Joey Santiago—the stuff which made Doolittle—aren’t emphasized.

The first single released, “Velouria,” is the high point of the album and fits nicely against “Rock Music” for good second and third tracks. They follow an instrumental opener called “Cecilia Ann” which really gets them off on the wrong foot. Mike Grant tells me it is a cover of some surf tune but it sounds like a detective show theme (maybe “Hawaii 5-0” revisited). “Dig For Fire” is very sweet and much needed after tracks six, “Ana” and seven, “All Over the World.” The lyrics are characteristically simple and structured and sung in a voice that sounds like David Byrne’s (only to me though). Admittedly, Doolittle is a hard act for any band to follow, but even the best tracks off Bossanova can’t stand up to “Debaser,” “Monkey Gone to Heaven” and “Hey.” Bossanova would be an excellent album for a lot of other bands, but not this one. I hope we haven’t seen “The Pixies” at their best already.

Continued on Page 12

Rob Kelley | A Guide To Charlotte

Is There Anything to do Around Here?

The feelings won’t abate as you sit with your friends on the Union Patio. It’s a quiet night at Davidson, and the leaves rustle darkly above your head. Maybe it’s because you’re freshmen, and the Court is still off-limits to you. Or maybe you’re upperclassmen, in search of a new type of fun. Either way, you’ve come to realize that Davidson College suddenly seems very, very small. You look across at your friends, and they look back at you. In each of your minds, you wish for some little troll to pop out of the ether, grunt two or three times in your general direction, then gesture you and your friends into a world of better things.

Uh, hi. My name’s Rob, and I’m a troll. Twenty miles south of ourQuiet little campus lies the city of Charlotte. Charlotte has recently come into its own as a major center of commerce. Charlotte houses the regional centers of several national banks, as well as an IBM plant, American Express’s southeast headquarters, and recently, a mildly professional basketball team. With all these yuppy-ish changes came a number of definitely unyuppy “counter-perks.” For example, Charlotte now has its own Shakespeare Company, and soon we may host the state’s Dance Troupe. While many Charlotteans take this news with a shrug, a few of us frolic at the thought. Charlotte has also developed a bona fide nightlife. Dance clubs abound, as well as annual Festivals in the Park (where a number of nifty trinkets can be acquired), and Springfest, a block party throughout all of uptown. Unfortunately, however, Charlotte’s city planners apparently did not expect such rapid growth. Consequently, a map of the Queen City is much like a bowl of spaghetti drenched in corn syrup. That’s why I’m here. For the last ten years, I’ve wallowed in this dark place, trying desperately to figure out the spaghetti soup that I live in. As the Charlotte Troll, I’ve had more than enough experience getting lost in the city to keep you from doing the same. From week to week, I'll bring you up to date on what’s going on down in the big city, how it rates, and most importantly, how to get there. Next week: a glance into Charlotte’s nightlife with a look at one of its best dance clubs, the Pterodactyl.

Elvis Meets Warped Wizard in Wild at Heart
By JOE MARIS

David Lynch’s “Wild at Heart” is not a film for everyone. If you had to flip a coin between seeing “Ghost Dad” or “Dark Man,” “Wild at Heart” is not for you. If you believe everyone in America watches “The Wonder Years” and goes to church every Sunday, “Wild at Heart” is not for you. If you want to take a date to a movie, “Wild at Heart” is definitely not for you. If you want to see how “Wizard of Oz” and buffalo hunting can be weaved into a plot of murder and overprotective mothers, “Wild at Heart” is for you.

Nicholas Cage portrays Sailor Ripley, a quick-tempered but likeable “manslaughterer” in love with Lula Fortune. Lula, played by Laura Dern of “Blue Velvet” fame, is the life-source of the world’s clichés. Lines such as “you’ve got me hotter than Georgia asphalt” and “you mark me the deepest” help accent Lula’s existence as a complete bubblehead. Together, Sailor and Lula travel down the yellow-brick road towards what they hope will be the Emerald City. Marietta Fortune, played by Dern’s real-life mother, Diane Ladd, plays the part of an alcoholic mother bent on preventing her daughter from dating the likes of Sailor Ripley. When a mild-mannered detective fails to prevent the couple from staying together, Marietta hires a hit man to eliminate Sailor. From this beginning, the plot spirals into the dark recesses of Lynch’s distorted America.

Sailor and Lula seem the odd couple in the first ten minutes of the film, but as the story progresses, they appear increasingly normal relative to the supporting characters. In one of the funniest scenes of the movie, Lula tells Sailor about her cousin, “Jingle” Dell, who believes that rainfall is powered by aliens wearing black gloves. Another character promises Lula that his “dog barks some.” Almost every character in “Wild at Heart” could be found on the front page of a supermarket tabloid. While some viewers may question the appearance of some of these tabloid characters in the film, this motley crew of supporting roles is necessary to establish the underlying theme of absurdity and deformity prevalent throughout the film.

This film is not for everyone. If you attempt to discover a deep underlying truth in “Wild at Heart,” you will earn a well-deserved headache. “Wild at Heart” simply displays the filmmaking genius of one of the rising international directors, David Lynch.