2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1990

Festival Showcases South Asian Culture: Beginning Next Week
By CARLA WALKER

Davidson’s South Asian Studies Program, one of the strongest in the South, will put its strength on display from September
16 through September 28 with its first South Asia Festival. The festival includes lectures, films, and musical performances about this
vast part of our world that contains one-fifth of its population and is home to many major religions. All lectures
and performances are free and open to the public.

More than 25 Davidson students hail from the region, including the countries of India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Davidson
also sends approximately 15 students to the Madras area of India for a semester every other year. Led by a
Davidson faculty member, they study Indian history and culture, conduct independent research, and visit sites of cultural importance.

In addition to the Madras program, the college curriculum includes 15 courses on the region, a variety of speakers on
South Asia visit campus, and many faculty members have traveled to or studied about South Asia. The program is part
of the college’s overall effort to increase its students' global perspective and teach them about non-western cultures.

The South Asia Festival is sponsored by Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program in International Studies and the College Union. Events include:

Sunday, September 16. 11:00 a.m. United Methodist Church. Dr. Lonnie Turnipseed. World Church leader and Director of the Southern Office
of Church World Service, will be discussing “The Church's Role in South Asia.” A holder of degrees from Davidson College,
Candler School of Theology, Emory University, and Union Theological Seminary, Dr. Turnipseed is a United Methodist and a member of
the Western North Carolina Conference.

Monday, September 17. 7:30 p.m. 900 Room, College Union. Ganga. Ganga, four members of the Roy family from a small
village in Bengal, India, took their performing name from the sacred Ganges River. They began performing classical and folk music
in an attempt to honor family heritage and the folk music of Bengal. Since 1981, they have resided in Washington,
D.C., and have toured throughout the U.S. Although the lyrics are in Bengali, the group provides an English introduction and
sociological explanation of each song. In addition, Ganga explains the history of its authentic, traditional instruments that were crafted by
Bengali villagers.

Tuesday, September 18. 4:00 p.m. 900 Room, College Union. Dr. David Gilmartin. Dr. Gilmartin, a professor in the North Carolina
State University history department, will lecture on “The Secessionist Movement in Indian Regions of Punjab and Kashmir.”

Tuesday, September 18. 8:00 p.m. 900 Room, College Union. Dr. Katherine Ewing. Dr. Ewing, a professor of cultural anthropology at
Duke University, will speak on “The Role of Women in Islam.”

Wednesday, September 19. 7:30 p.m. 900 Room, College Union. Ambassador Harry Barnes. Former Deputy Chief Mission to Nepal from 1963
to 1967 and former Ambassador to India from 1981 to 1985, Barnes has recently visited Afghanistan with the Asia Watch
group. His presentation will center around “U.S.-South Asian Relations.”

Thursday, September 20. 4:00 p.m. Morrison Room, College Union. Dr. Wendy Doniger. Dr. Doniger, a chaired professor of religion and
Indian studies at the University of Chicago, will speak on “The Ambiguity of Death and Sex in Hindu Mythology.”

Sunday, September 23. 7:30 p.m. 900 Room, College Union. The River. The Cinema Classics Committee will show this movie directed
by Jean Renoir. This movie is based on a story of a Christian missionary and his wife in the very
Colonial India of the early thirties.

Davidson Art Program Will Travel to Italy This Spring
By JENNY SCARBOROUGH

A program instituted by the Davidson College Art Department will give fifteen students the opportunity to live and study in
Rome during the spring semester. The program, which is directed by Art professor Nina Serebrennikov, is open to sophomores, juniors,
and seniors, regardless of major. The students will take four courses: one in Italian, two in art history, and one
independent study. Prerequisites for the program are either Art 210 or Art 100.

In the art history classes—Early Christian and Byzantine Art in Italy and a seminar in Italian Renaissance and Baroque art—students
will study works of art in class before seeing and examining the actual monuments, churches, and mosaics. The Italian course
is designed to help students learn the language as they are living in the country. It will be taught at
a language school in Rome. Serebrennikov said, “The Italian classes will allow us to be stepping into Rome rather than
being a group of American tourists.”

The group will also spend a week in Florence and four days in Ravenna, which was the westernmost capital of
the Byzantine empire. Serebrennikov said that being in Rome and viewing the monuments firsthand will add much more meaning to
the study of art history. Seeing the works of art and examining them in their natural setting “is something which
just can’t compare to a slide.”dance is interpolated within this tale. Admission charge. Wednesday and Friday, September 26 and 28.
900 Room, College Union.

Salaam Bombay. Winner of the Cannes Film Festival’s Camera D’Or award, this unique film was shot in the streets and
brothels of Bombay’s underworld. The film includes performances by Indian street children to convey a message of the struggles these
children have to face.

Saving Energy Makes Better Davidson and Richer Faculty: New Contest Awaited By Eager College Community

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

Kicking an idea for a college energy management system around the ol’ baseball diamond has earned a coalition of four
faculty coaches $2,000 in the Better Davidson Contest. The principal administrative staff selected an entry from Economics professor Peter Hess,
Humanities and Physics professor Bob Manning, English professor Randy Nelson, and Religion professor Karl Plank over about 70 others as
the contest winner. A second place prize of $1,000 goes to Harriet Kessler of institutional advancement for a suggestion to
centralize procurement, while Bob Stevenson of administrative services and Mary Lineberger of the laundry split a $500 third prize. Stevenson
suggested setting up a college motor pool while Lineberger, who works at the laundry, suggested methods for making that operation
more efficient.

Honorable mention awards of $100 were also made to Gay Gayle Daily, Dave Fagg, Harrison Heil, Denise Howard, Peter Johnson,
Peter Krentz, Ed Ludwick, Heidi Schultz, Charlie Slagle, Eileen Vinson, and Francis White. Bob Sutton, vice president for business and
finance, said the college plans to implement all of the winning entries, though some may take more time than others.
“If we were able to institute a substantial majority of these ideas, there would be very dramatic savings in the
college budget,” he said.

The four faculty winners all coached the Davidson Eagles nine- and ten-year-old baseball team this summer. When the contest was
announced, they began discussing ideas, and eventually did some serious research into the subject of energy management. That research showed
that better energy management could save the college between $60,000 and $560,000 annually. They recommended that Davidson establish an energy
management task force to work with Duke Power Company on a plan beginning its work with an energy audit, and
suggested that Davidson subscribe to Duke Power’s interruptible service system and buy energy-efficient equipment to help reduce the costs of
lighting and air conditioning.

Kessler estimated that a central procurement system would save Davidson $300,000 a year through competitive bidding and establishing a partnership
with suppliers. Under Stevenson’s car pool proposal, all vehicles would be checked out through a college motor pool, which would
be responsible for their maintenance and fuel.

Energy management and environmental stewardship were popular subjects in the contest. One person recommended putting bricks in toilet tanks to
save water. Another said the college should adopt a standard of 78 degrees Fahrenheit in the summer and 68 degrees
in the winter for all thermostats, and another suggested weatherstripping leaky doors and windows.

The contest also uncovered a core of resentment against employees who abuse the college. People suggested a lay-off of employees
who are doing personal errands on company time, checking out of work early, punching others’ time cards, taking college-owned material
for personal use, loafing on the job, and spending college funds unwisely. One person wrote that someone in the comptroller’s
office should bring “outlandish and inappropriate charges” to the attention of departmental vice presidents. This person added, “I honestly feel
that if people in the college knew they were being scrutinized for what they spent and how, spending would decrease.”

Other entries covered a wide range of college activities. An extra half-day of paid vacation to employees who do not
use any sick leave days for six months was one proposal. Additional suggestions included: two people should not be sent
to do a job that one can handle; the charging of a small fee for bringing guests to the Baker
Sports Complex; giving hourly employees the option of taking the summer months off; the consolidation of the authority for publications
work; the charging of higher fees for parking permits and the decreasing of tolerance of illegal parking; the limitation of
the amount of paper used by establishing common bulletin boards; and the reduction of mailing costs by sending items to
other employees via campus mail instead of the costlier US mail.

Sutton said that he was happy with the range and thoughtfulness of the suggestions, and that he intends to continue
the process into the future.
