THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1990

By CARLA WALKER

The major fall production for the Davidson College theatre department is Tennessee Williams’ "Streetcar Named Desire." Performances will be in
Hodson Hall in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building on Friday, Oct. 19 and Saturday, Oct. 20 at 8 p.m., Thursday,
Oct. 25 at 7:30 p.m., and a matinee Saturday, Oct. 27 at 2:30 p.m. Tickets are $5 general admission and
$3 for students and senior citizens. Special group rates can be arranged for high school students through the theatre department.

"Tennessee Williams’ 'Streetcar Named Desire' is one of the playwright’s finest and most influential works, and has assumed the status
of a classic American drama since its first New York production in 1947," said director Alex Pinkston, assistant professor of
theatre and speech. "The play reveals the dynamic tension between the Old South of the earlier century and the rising
assertiveness of the post-WWII American spirit through the conflict between Blanche Dubois, a southern schoolteacher with a secret past, and
Blanche’s brother-in-law, Stanley Kowalski, a former army officer living in the French Quarter of New Orleans with his wife Stella.
When Blanche arrives in New Orleans to stay in Stanley and Stella’s apartment, tensions and psychological conflicts mount, and Blanche
is driven to insanity."

The Davidson College production features Keely Schneider and Bob Hornsby, both seniors, as Blanche and Stanley, and Mary McNeill, a
junior, as Stella. Dale Becherer is the technical director and Joe Gardner, professor of theatre and speech, is the scene
designer. The box office will be open Monday through Friday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. beginning October 15, and
reservations can be made by phone at 892-2340. Additional information is also available through the theatre department from Monday through
Friday 8:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 892-2361.

---

Anne DeLattre Brings New Opportunities to Davidson

By JENNIFER SIECK

Professor Anne DeLattre is teaching this semester at Davidson as Distinguished Visiting Professor of International Studies. In DeLattre’s third teaching
experience at Davidson, she finds Davidson College "very stimulating... The students are on the whole very hard working and bright
and eager to learn."

DeLattre is teaching two Center for Special Studies courses: African Development Trends and The Integration of Europe. She brings impressive
resources to these courses and to Davidson. From the Université de Paris, DeLattre earned a Baccalauréat and Licence des Lettres.
She then traveled to the United States to complete Masters of Arts at both Columbia and Johns Hopkins Universities. She
began her career working as an economist for the International Monetary Fund. Later, as an economic journalist in France, she
edited a weekly newsletter until 1962 when she began working for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Her
focus with the OECD was always on development problems and policies, and in 1976 she became founding director of the
Club du Sahel, a position she held until her retirement from the OECD in 1988.

DeLattre has traveled extensively throughout her career. In 1953 she spent a year in Iran; she did much traveling in
Asia, the Middle East, and Africa when serving on the Board of Directors of the International Food Policy Research Institute
from 1982-88; and 30 to 50 percent of her time in the past 14 years has been spent in West
Africa. She has crossed the Sahara Desert, and her favorite country is Niger. In January, she will return to Africa
on a project to develop economic integration in West Africa, sponsored by the OECD and the African Development Bank.

DeLattre enjoys "very much" living in the United States. "I find this country very dynamic, open and capable of responding
to all challenges."sorts of challenges: "I like the unbelievable ease of well-being," says Professor Anne De Lattre. "I like the
American energy. I like the American feeling that problems can be solved... I think perhaps I’m more American than European
in my outlook on life.” De Lattre also finds life in Davidson amenable. “It’s a wonderful place from every point
of view--a beautiful campus and unbelievable facilities for students.” She particularly enjoys taking advantage of the college library and the
swimming pool.

Caffeine: A Legal Addiction

Caffeine is considered the “single most widely used psychoactive drug” -- interesting way of looking at it, isn’t it? Although
some controversy exists as to whether caffeine is a dangerous drug or a needed but unharmful substance, there is no
concrete evidence that caffeine causes cancers of the urinary tract, breast, ovary, or pancreas. Although some studies have supported this,
many have been criticized or disproved by contradicting information. Another study suggests that caffeine increases athletic endurance when ingested one
to two hours before exercise, but this has not been proven either. Studies linking caffeine to irregular heartbeats are largely
unfounded. Caffeine has been linked to infertility, but as yet it is uncertain whether this connection is valid. It is
recommended that pregnant women try to cut their caffeine consumption, especially during the first few weeks of pregnancy, because the
fetus has not developed the necessary enzymes to break down caffeine, and caffeine can remain in the baby’s system until
a considerable time after birth.

I used to believe that I hadn’t taken any caffeine into my system since 1985 when I went to Leningrad
and couldn’t drink the water. All we had was Pepsi and tea. My hands were shaking the whole time, so
I swore I'd never drink soft drinks again. However, I didn’t anticipate that caffeine is practically unavoidable. Not only does
caffeine exist in Vivarin, soft drinks, coffee, and tea, but also in chocolate and in over-the-counter medications such as Anacin,
Excedrin, Dristan, and Sinarest. Caffeine is also used to flavor many processed and baked foods, but it’s not listed on
the labels.

To compare, or to find out how you rate in caffeine consumption (200mg per day is considered normal for an
adult), here are some figures from the American Journal of Health Promotion:

Coffee:
- Brewed coffee: about 210 mg/8 oz. (1 cup).
- Instant coffee: about 140 mg/8 oz.
- Decaffeinated coffee is not entirely caffeine-free, but has only 5 mg per cup.

Tea:
- Hot tea: The longer the brew, the more caffeine. On average, about 72 mg/cup.
- Iced tea: about 114 mg/cup.

Soft drinks (mg per 12 oz.):
- Diet Pepsi: 36.
- Pepsi: 38.
- Dr. Pepper: 40.
- Coke, Diet Coke, and Tab: 46.
- Mello Yello and Mountain Dew: 54.
- Jolt Cola: 71.

Chocolate:
- Dark chocolate: 160 mg/cup.
- Milk chocolate: 72 mg/cup.
- Chocolate ice cream: 7.5 mg/cup.
- Chocolate pudding and cake also have some caffeine in them.

Medications:
- Excedrin: 130.
- Anacin and Midol: 64.
- Aspirin has no caffeine in it.
- Sinarest: 60.
- Dristan: 32.
- No-Doz and Vivarin: 200.

Despite its boost of energy, it has been proven that caffeine is physically addictive. A tolerance to caffeine can be
built up. “Quitting” caffeine can cause withdrawal symptoms, even when the person who “quits” has only been drinking one cup
of coffee a day. Some withdrawal symptoms of caffeine include headache, insomnia, irritability, and listlessness. The reasons why you must
go through this morning hell if you are used to a cup of coffee before class but don’t have time
to get one have to do with a chemical in the brain called adenosine. Without caffeine, adenosine is uninhibited, and
can continue dilating blood vessels as it normally does, causing headache and fatigue. Withdrawal symptoms can begin as soon as
12-24 hours after caffeine is consumed. This means that, for example, someone who typically has no caffeine at night, but
has a morning cup of coffee, may experience a mini-withdrawal every day!
