THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1990

Where Do You Stand, Jesse?
By GILBERT SHAW '91

“Where do you stand, Jim?” Those of you from North Carolina must forgive me for harking back to those many
days in 1984 when we heard this question asked repeatedly by Jesse Helms. I have been waiting for something similar
to bombard my ears during the present U.S. Senate race between Jesse Helms and former Charlotte Mayor Harvey Gantt. But
we haven’t heard from Jesse anything like: “Where do you stand, Harvey?” I think I know why. Harvey Gantt is
no lukewarm candidate. Gantt has defined his positions clearly since the outset of his campaign. Perhaps, it is time, however,
for Mr. Helms to answer the same question of himself: “Where do you stand, Jesse?”

Here we get into a bit of a grey area. The problem isn’t that Mr. Helms lacks opinions. He lacks
answers. Perhaps, more fundamentally, Mr. Helms fails to see the problems and challenges that face our state and our nation
in 1990 and in the coming century. The world of 1990 has changed radically and unpredictably from the days of
Mr. Helms’ last election in 1984. Today, the Cold War has all but completely thawed and the United States and
the Soviet Union enjoy unprecedented warm relations with one another. Our mutual efforts in standing firm against Saddam Hussein are
but the most recent manifestations of this dramatic shift. Indeed, today polls reflect that the majority of Americans no longer
see the Soviet Union as the primary risk to our way of life. Instead, Americans view the growing global economic
competition we face from Japan and Europe as more pertinent to our future prosperity. But don’t take my word for
it, just ask President Bush. Last year the President convened with Governor Martin and the Governors of risk. American students
were consistently out-performed in standardized tests given to students of other industrial nations. “How well,” it was asked, “will American
companies and American citizens compete in the twenty-first century?”

Noticeably silent in offering any constructive opinion has been Jesse Helms. Indeed, in 1990, Jesse Helms was one of only
eight senators to vote against President Bush’s Educational Excellence Act. Jesse Helms’ lack of concern for American education goes back
even further. In 1987, Mr. Helms threw the only negative senate vote against the Elementary and Secondary Education Improvement Act,
which provides for such programs as the Rural Educational Opportunities Program, the Family-School Partnership Program, and the Comprehensive School Health
Program. Likewise, in 1986, Mr. Helms was the only senator to vote against the Higher Education Act Amendments which provide
aid to colleges and college students. And in 1989, 1987, three times in 1986, 1985, 1982, and five times in
1981, Jesse Helms voted against funding for Pell Grants, which help students of low-income families afford post-secondary education.

Somehow or another Jesse Helms hasn’t gotten the word from those on Capitol Hill or in the White House that
the “c”-word has changed from “communism” to “competitiveness.” Thus, Mr. Helms continues nuking vital education programs put forth by recommendation
of Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) and the Senate Armed Services Committee, Jesse Helms was one of only seven senators to
support building all 132 B-2 stealth bombers. In contrast, Harvey Gantt knows that times have changed and America must change
with them if we wish to remain strong and grow stronger. First, Mr. Gantt realizes that more investment must be
put into our education. Not merely an investment of money, but of concern. He knows from his own life that
education is the key to opportunity. After graduating with Honors from Clemson, which he integrated in 1963, Mr. Gantt went
on to receive his Master’s Degree in city planning from M.I.T. It was through education that Harvey Gantt was given
the ability to compete and succeed as an architect and politician.

Furthermore, Mr. Gantt believes that America’s national defense should remain strong and, importantly, viable. Such was the message of Harvey
Gantt last June when he spoke to the Veterans of Foreign Wars saying, “[the United States] will have to maintain
a focused vigilance and a strong defense.” The Mideast crisis demonstrates that the United States must, as Mr. Gantt went
on to say, “plan the kind of military posture, structure and defense that is technologically superior, but streamlined to fit
the kind of world that we’re living in.”

Quite frankly, ‘the kind of world that we’re living in’ is not the same one Jesse Helms is. This he
continually demonstrates in his irresponsible neglect for education and his impractical approach to national defense. It’s time we sent a
senator to Washington who lives in our world. One who will demand the biggest “bang for the buck” not only
for defense but for education as well. Refreshingly, we will have such a candidate.in Harvey Gantt. As for Jesse Helms,
I’ll just send him a few pieces of the Berlin Wall. I have several in my room as souvenirs.

Gilbert Shaw is a senior history major from Fayetteville, N.C. and is a campus organizer for “Students For Harvey Gantt.”

D.A. Thompson

Rude Notes and Random Scribblings

Everything I Needed to Know

First of all, I think I need to address those of you who seem to be lacking a little something
in the sense of humor department by telling you that my article about smoking last week was a JOKE!! I
must admit I was a little surprised that so many of my fellow students actually took me seriously, so let
me establish now that I WAS KIDDING! Lighten up, folks.

Anyway, on to new business. Just the other day as I was sitting back listening to my Muppet Movie Soundtrack
album, drinking a cup of General Foods International Coffee, and wondering whatever happened to Jan of The Brady Bunch, I
spied an advertisement for Robert Fulghum’s book Everything I Ever Needed to Know I Learned in Kindergarten. The copy said
something about what a heartwarming collection of essays the book contained, and how Mr. Fulghum manages to touch the child
in all of us or something silly like that. Well, needless to say, this was a little too much for
my sensibilities: I spit out the coffee, nuked the muppets for a little Parliament of Funk, and reminded myself that
Jan would probably never go for a guy like me anyway.

Having returned to my normal self, I realized that everything I ever needed to know I learned in my first
year at Davidson, and decided to compile a list.

1) Don’t spit on the Dean.
2) Showing up for class with a hangover will not necessarily engender a great deal of fondness for you in
the hearts of your professors. (Showing up drunk, however, will endear you to them for at least a semester.)

See LIST on Page 6

Don't Forget the Common People

By RAMI EL-AMINE '92

My father returned today, Sunday, September 2, 1990, to Dhahran, Saudi Arabia to continue his thirty-second year of service with
the United States military. Mohammed El Amine, my father, is from a small village in southern Lebanon which has been
occupied by the Israelis since the 1982 invasion of our country. However, Shaqra, the village, has been the target of
the Israeli government’s brutality since long before then. The majority of the villagers grow tobacco to export to the United
States and other industrial countries. They are not wealthy people, but at one time they were content with their simple
life. Unfortunately, life is getting more difficult for the people of Shaqra as Israeli harassment, interrogation, and oppression of the
men drudges into its eighth year. For my father, life is also getting more difficult because, by paying taxes, he
is in a sense supporting this brutalization of his own people.

My intentions here are to awaken you to a simple fact: the majority of the Arab people are not wealthy
oil sheikhs who have the privilege of attending prestigious schools, interacting with the outside world, and the means to modernize
their country. These privileges are reserved to such oil-rich countries as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman, and the United
Arab Emirates. Even in these countries, the rich are not a large majority. They care little for what goes on
in my small village of Shaqra, but when their conscience begins to bother them, they send a check to our
government which the people of Shaqra never see.

The common Arab, on the other hand, knows little of the outside world except that which directly affects them. For
example, the fact that America gives Israel $3.7 billion a year in economic and military grants (more than $1000 per
Israeli citizen) to sustain its occupation of two Arab countries (Lebanon and Syria), and deprivation of a third, the Palestinians,
of self-determination. Not to mention its inhumane treatment of all three occupied peoples. Because such realities are at the core
of everything we do as Arabs, Israel has become a factor of instability rather than, as America insists, stability in
the Middle East.

So, you are probably asking, what does this have to do with Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait and what is the
point of my writing this opinions piece? Well, contrary to President Bush’s statements, the Arab-Israeli conflict and the unbalanced distribution
of wealth among the Arab countries and people is not an

See MIDDLE EAST on Page 6
