THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

Union banner greets Class of 1994.

Photo Courtesy of College Relations

Photo Feature

Freshmen prepare for the annual regatta.

A Freshman Guide to Orientation

By KATE DUNLOP

No matter how much mental preparation one has done, nobody can be fully prepared for the initial shock. Suddenly you
are thrust onto the other side of the admissions process. All of those glossy pictures from the catalog that were
so carefully selected are suddenly animated and moving. The smiling faces of the other incoming freshmen are finally personified.

I was terrified and excited when I first stepped on the Davidson campus for the first day of my freshman
year. Coming from California, I had not had the chance to visit the college extensively. My decision to come to
Davidson was based primarily on catalog reading combined with basic instinct. Therefore, I had a lot riding on Freshman Orientation,
the three days before classes designed to give new students a better sense of the Davidson community.

The basic schedule for Orientation had freshmen checking in all day on Friday, and then going from meeting to meeting
on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. The topics of discussion ranged from “the Honor Code” to “Living with our Diversity” to
the “Code of Responsibility.” There were numerous comments on both the length and the redundancy of the presentations.

Freshman Ashley Torrence suggested: “I think the presentations could have been cut down to allow freshmen to begin to get
to know each other. We should have been allowed more free time.”

Freshman Becca Peters added: “Maybe we could have broken randomly into small groups for different discussions. We spent a lot
of time with our halls, but not with the other students.” The most prevalent comment concerned the repetitive nature of
the Honor Code presentation. “The Honor Code is a very important part of the Davidson experience, but I think people
understood that before they came here. The presentation was necessary, but the repetition wasn’t,” commented Peters.

Not all of the presentations were written off by the students, however. Dean Terry’s speech on Saturday before the parents
left was appreciated. Freshman Meg Kendall noted that Terry “painted a realistic picture of what college life will be like.
We will have our good days and our bad. The adjustment will be difficult; not everything is going to be
easy. It kind of scared me, but it was important.”

As I see it, Freshman Orientation lasts until the freshmen are allowed on Patterson Court on September 20. Although there
was criticism over the initial three days of orientation, freshmen generally applaud the decision not to allow freshmen to attend
fraternity and eating house parties until that date.

“It gives us a chance to get to know our class. Mixers are a good idea,” said Susan Beales, a
freshman. Beales’ only suggestion is “I think we need to start mixing with the other girls' halls. It’s great to
hang out with people on your hall, but it’s also important to meet as many students as you can.” Slowly,
as freshmen become adjusted to life at Davidson, the memories of Freshman Orientation will fade.

Challenging classes and meeting new friends is what takes up most of our time now. Nevertheless, Freshman Orientation was an
important part of our initial acclimation to Davidson.

Photo Courtesy of College Relations

Jean DeMoss, winner of the women's division, proudly displays her hard-earned prize.

Shelton Bellew "takes the cake," winning the 1990 freshman cake race.

Female guardians look on as a large ball amuses fun-seeking Davidson students.
