OPINIONS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1990

skeleton in the closet, and it was clutching a bottle of Wild Irish Rose. Unfortunately, (allow me to use another
tired expression here) the cat got out of the bag last spring, and he and a few of his friends
had to be rushed to the hospital to have their stomachs pumped while the trustees were paying a visit. And
now, thanks to the crack reporting of the Channel 36 News team who broke the story of debauchery at Davidson
(only because they couldn’t find any real news to report), we’ve got a little image polishing to do.

Davidson has acquired the unwanted reputation of a “party school” simply because a few silly people decided to spend an
afternoon playing “mine’s bigger”. (Referring only to their tolerance for alcohol.) Of course, I’m not really being fair. Our alcohol
policy needed a little revision anyway, and all these changes would be necessary even if “the individuals involved” didn’t act
so irresponsibly (yeah, sure). I, however, am the first to agree that our policy needs some minor revision, but not
the puritanical overhaul suggested by the trustees. You see, what truly makes Davidson unique is not its stance regarding alcohol,
but its honor code.

My suggestion is that we come completely clean about what goes on here, to the trustees and to the rest
of the world. Instead of having the freshmen sit in their rooms and drink secretly before those really awful (not
to mention horrendously sexist) hall mixers, why not give them all a few dozen cups of Wildcat Punch or something
of the sort, prepared ever so lovingly by the hall counselors sponsoring the event.

Perhaps the college should consider equipping every room on the campus with one of those mini-bar things they have in
hotels. Every Monday, someone from residence life could come in, take stock of what was used over the weekend, and
bill the students appropriately, restocking the bar after payment. Not only would this spare every student the hassle of fake
IDs and beer runs to Cornelius, but such daring entrepreneurship would be royally rewarded in profits.

Rather than force all students to bring their own alcohol to Davidson, the chemistry department could help us make our
own alcohol. Instead of having a fridge full of beer in every room, why not offer each student a shine-producing
still?

Yes, times are changing at Davidson College, and we, as active and responsible students, must do all we can to
make them change for the better. Please, write any trustee soon, and tell them how you feel. Better yet, call
‘em up and take ‘em out for a drink. (As usual, everybody, I’m only joking! Please don’t waste your time
taking this stuff seriously.)

Legs Continued from Page 5

fornia? Listen honey, I don’t care where you come from, or what your legs look like. So we all think
that people from the Bay area are gay? I want someone to say that to Jose Canseco or anyone on
the Forty-Niners’ defensive line. (That would be...not.) Plus I know a guy whose mom comes from San Francisco. LastTime I
checked, she was pretty straight. But you know those San Francisco moms. Could be closet, I don’t know... Yeah, feminism.
I do what I think is the right thing. Women are no less people than men. Not at all. I
just think some of this garbage is, well... garbage. You know, I still get in trouble for calling some people
Miss. I haven’t been accosted for door holding lately, but I did get yelled at for saying “hey, man” to
a girl (yes, I did just use the word girl). The sad part is, I wasn’t talking to the person
who got upset about it. I don’t know, what’s a man of the nineties to do? Maybe we should all
shave our legs or something.

Tosh Crystal is a sophomore from Greenwich, Connecticut.

THE SODA SHOPPE (Formally the M&M Soda Shoppe) is now open under new management. Still serving the best in Sandwiches
and Shakes.
704-896-7743
761 N. Main St.
Mooresville, (704) 663-7322

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT
College Night - Thursday Night
Selected Appetizers - 1/2 Price
Discount Prices on Beer
Entertainment Wed., Thurs., & Sat. in Sept. - Call for details!

THANK YOU FOR YOUR KINDNESS
I would like to take this opportunity to express my most heartfelt thanks to the Davidson faculty, staff, and students,
the Davidson Presbyterian Church, and all others who contributed towards my return airplane ticket to Kenya following my father's death.
I also extend my gratitude to all who have remained with me in their hearts and in prayer during this
difficult time. Special thanks go to Chuck Hasty, the College Chaplain, for his swift action in arranging for my departure
within four hours of receiving the sad news. May God bless you all for your kindness.
Sincerely,
Stephen Weguld '91

ANNOUNCING A NEW STUDENT-STAFF COMMITTEE
Residence Hall Renovation and Construction Advisory Board
We are seeking Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors interested in helping shape plans for dorm improvement, furniture purchases, and new construction
of Residence Halls. We can make a difference in where you live! If interested, come by Residence Life in Belk
Residence Hall by Thursday, September 27.

How To Economically Maximize A Study Break:
1. Take a friend and this ad. Go to Norman Crossing Shopping Center at Exit 28 off I-77. Very close
by.
2. Order any SUBWAY sandwich. You'll get a free 16 oz. drink. Satisfy hunger.
3. Take your receipt and your free play coupon below next door to HOT SHOT. Relax and play a few
games.

Offer good thru October 31, 1990

HOT SHOT Video Arcade
Good for 2 free plays
892-5776
Free drink with purchase of any sandwich
892-7628

IF YOU'RE THINKING SCIENCE OR ENGINEERING, THINK AIR FORCE ROTC.
College is where your education in science or engineering reaches new heights. Air Force ROTC can take that education even
higher — into satellite, laser, or other technologies that become the focus of your career upon graduation. You may also
qualify for two- through four-year scholarships that help defray your college costs and provide you with $100 each academic month
tax-free. If you're thinking technology, think Air Force ROTC.
Call CAPT ERIC SEAY 547-4537
Leadership Excellence Starts Here
