Thursday, February 22, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

PANEL, from previous page

the situation. I think the economic life will be better improved in East Germany... We need retrained programs and also
programs which comply with monetary union in order to ensure that we can abolish the high degree of unemployment in
all parts of Germany... The currency union also means we have to go quickly to a market economy, a market
economy that we have in the Federal Republic.

Dr. Jackson Janes, Deputy Director of the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies, an affiliate of The Johns Hopkins University:

In retrospect I see an enormous sense of pride in what has happened in the last several months among my
friends in West Germany... I think it is very difficult for Americans to understand what has happened to them emotionally
unless you have spent a lot of time over there... Germany has moved from a protégé of the United States
in the early 1950s to a junior partner to a full partner with one that has had enormous expectation from
the United States as to what it is and what it has accomplished. And I think this is something that
will involve a certain adjustment in the United States for our own purposes. I think that the situation that is
emerging in Europe will inevitably put Germany into an important linchpin leadership role that it has already got in the
European Community and now it is going to be expanded. I don’t think anyone in the West German government believes
that a Germanified Europe is in any way desirable and going back to the 1950s a Europeanized Germany is what
they have been calling for. The problem, I think, is going to be in some ways... on our adjustment because
what we're seeing is happening before our eyes. It couldn’t be changed even if we wanted to. We’re lucky that
it’s going in the direction that it is. But we’ve got some adjustments to make on our own, and I
think, that’s something we need to think about. The West Germans are very clear about what they want to do;
that’s been their strength... But I think it raises questions where the United States will be in all of this.
For many years, of course, we have been in a position of leadership and presuming a position of leadership, especially
through NATO. NATO was created at a time when the world was fairly clear, a black and white world. It
is no longer black and white. And the instrumentation of NATO is something we are trying to grapple with... but
it will go hand in hand with a new American understanding of our role in Europe. And I think that
is going to have some problems with some Americans; for example, like pulling troops out of Western Europe. What is
that going to do to the domestic political debate in our country?... I maintain it’s not going to be an
easy debate in this country.

Secondly, we have got to be aware of the fact of our role in Europe which will be different from
the last forty years... We will be involved... but I think we have to understand a different role, a cooperative
role. It isn’t the lopsided world it was in 1952, or for that matter twenty years later.

As we talk about Germany, I think we also need to talk about ourselves and what our contribution is going
to be economically, politically, and militarily. But one thing we can depend on is the way the West Germans have
gone about this is something we can rely on, that we can depend on, and I think build on.

---

STEAK ’n HOAGIE
SOUTHLAKE SHOPPING CENTER

DORM DELIVERY NOW AVAILABLE
Call in your order by 8:45 PM
896-7611
9:30 PM Delivery
Sunday thru Thursday nights

@ THE CHICKEN BREAST
chicken breast, provolone cheese, lettuce, tomato, oil and vinegar... $3.50

@ THE SEAFOOD SALAD
seafood, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil/vinegar... $3.50

@ THE AMERICAN
roast beef, turkey, ham, cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar... $3.00

@ THE ITALIAN
salami, pepperoni, hard salami, ham, cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar... $3.00

@ THE HOUSE
cappicola, hard salami, ham, salami, cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar... $3.00

@ THE HAM
ham, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar... $3.00

@ THE TURKEY
turkey, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar... $3.00

@ THE ROAST BEEF
roast beef, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar... $3.00

@ THE CHEESE
provolone and American cheese, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar... $3.00

@ HALF HOAGIES available on The American, The Italian or ham & cheese... $1.75

We at Steak ’n Hoagie are happy to initiate dorm deliveries on a trial basis, with one-time evening deliveries. Coupon
offers will not be applicable to these deliveries. A more extensive delivery schedule and menu will be considered based on
the success of this effort.
