Trustees on campus Feb. 22 & 23!

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 17

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, February 22, 1990

Hugo, sports complex and JYAers cited as causes for Davidson to tighten its belt
College may end year with a deficit for first time

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

For the first time ever, Davidson could face a budget deficit for the 1989-90 school year. Three factors have been
cited for the financial shortage—lower student enrollment, the opening of the Baker Sports Complex and the expenses caused by Hugo.
In a memo to all college employees, President John Kuykendall stated: “Initial estimates indicated that there would be a significant
shortfall for this fiscal year.”

Because of the shortage, Kuykendall asked faculty, staff and administrators to review their budgets and eliminate any expenditures which could
be deferred. In addition, Kuykendall stipulated that “no additional personnel, including replacements, will be added to the payroll without advance
approval.” Employees must also secure

The possibility of a budget deficit has existed for several years. Kuykendall wrote, “we have seen our budget situation get
progressively worse during the past several years.”

This year several unexpected events occurred which caused additional expenses. “None were really budget-breaking events,” said Robert Sutton, Vice President
for Business and Finance. “But all of them taken together affected the budget in a negative way.”

One factor is the Baker Sports Complex. Interim Athletic Director Sterling Martin said that the complex was “insignificant in the
overall picture.”

The complex went over budget because several factors which were cut out of the original budget had to be reinserted.
The money for details, including a second side of bleachers, came from the construction budget. Thus the construction budget could
no longer accommodate equipment, office furniture and staff.

Martin said, “The cost was secured and we were able to have it.” Sutton anticipated that the Baker Sports Complex
will be less than $100,000 over budget.

Yet, the athletic department anticipates staying within its budget this year. “For once, the athletic department is doing a very
good job managing the budget, and we hope to come under budget,” said Martin, “but we might have to eat
our words by the end of the year.”

The athletic department received only a small budget increase in operating expenses even though Baker Sports Complex is significantly larger
than Johnston. Martin stressed the choices which the athletic department has made in terms of office furniture and staff.

One of these choices included limiting the hours the building is open, and piecing together furnishings. Martin said, “The bottom
line is that we must come to grips that we must make some hard choices. We may have to cut
out some things.”

Another factor which influenced the budget includes the shortage of students due to programs overseas. The budget assumed that 1,400
students would be enrolled in Davidson. However, only 1,356 are paying tuition this year. When a student leaves Davidson on
an off-campus program, that tuition is diverted from the budget. Several programs which began in the spring have played a
large role in taking students off campus.

“We are just now trying to manage the enrollment,” said Robert Gardner, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. “It has
previously not factored in, but if you’re going to have tight budgets, everything must be accounted for. We've discovered what
the issues are, and now we’re straightening them out.”

The college encountered a serious cost in cleaning up after Hurricane Hugo. The hurricane destroyed well over 200 trees and
damaged several buildings. “Hugo could cost the college a couple hundred thousand dollars,” said Sutton. “It’s a significant cost.”

Until the college begins receiving money from the Campaign for Davidson, the budget problem will persist. “We must operate in
a lean and efficient manner until the Campaign for Davidson money starts flowing in,” said Sutton.

WITH 2 GERMANYS

SOVIETS
NATION TALKS:
ON UN TROOP CEILING

GORBACHEV

UNITING THE GERMANIES: Klaus Francke (left) of the West German Bundestag and member of the Christian Democratic party poses here
with Norbert Reemer, acting ambassador of the East German Embassy in Washington, D.C. Both officials were here last week as
part of the conference sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program, “The Two Germanies: After the Wall.”

Photo courtesy of College Relations
