THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

Football Wildcats Rally for First Win

By BRUCE PAGE

Davidson’s football team evened their record with a dramatic come-from-behind victory on the road at Millsaps, in Jackson, Miss. Saturday.
The Wildcats (1-1) beat the Majors (0-1) 24-13 after an incredible second half performance, which culminated in 18 fourth-quarter points.
The Cats were down 7-6 at the half, and Millsaps outscored Davidson 7-0 in the third quarter. Still, Davidson overcame
a 98-degree field temperature and put together one of the best comeback wins in recent school history.

The series which turned the game around for the Wildcats began in the fourth quarter with Davidson starting from its
own 1-yard line. Senior quarterback Mark Wainright came off the bench to engineer a 99-yard scoring drive. Senior running back
Terry Hines scored two touchdowns, including the go-ahead points. The Davidson coaching staff also commended defensive players Steve Veitch, Mike
Noonam, and Alden Smith for their performances. Smith recovered an onside kick which led to a Wildcats touchdown.

Obviously, coach Dave Fagg was exuberant over his first win since returning to Davidson as head football coach. Still, he
has commented that the team will have to improve their turnover ratio if they wish to keep winning. The Wildcats
will play for their second consecutive victory this Saturday when they host cross-county rival J.C. Smith at Richardson Field. Kickoff
is at 1:00 p.m.

Wildcats Go For Two Straight Versus Johnson C. Smith

By BRUCE BALESTIER

After their comeback victory at Millsaps, the Wildcats look for their second win Saturday against Johnson C. Smith. The athletic
Bulls concern Davidson head coach Dave Fagg: “On paper, the Johnson C. Smith game looks like another talented team as
any we play. They have a great quarterback in Maurice Flowers and great speed at the skill positions.”

The Bulls opened their season last week with a 27-6 setback at Virginia Union. Saturday’s game will be the second,
and likely the last, meeting between the teams. “Given my choice I wouldn’t do it (next year),” coach Fagg told
the Charlotte Touchdown Club Tuesday. The Division III Wildcats may soon be no match for the Division II Bulls.

Last year’s meeting between Davidson and Smith went down to the wire. The ‘Cats went ahead 15-12 on a 20-yard
touchdown pass with 32 seconds left, but a 20-yard touchdown pass with 2 seconds left gave the Bulls an 18-15
victory.

Women's Field Hockey

Field Hockey Defeats Catawba College 5-2

By LARRY DAGENHART

On Thursday, September 6, the Davidson Field Hockey team opened its season by defeating Catawba College 5-2. Despite 96-degree heat,
tall grass, and ubiquitous first game jitters, the Wildcats came on to dominate the Indians by getting 17 corner hits
throughout the game and allowing no shots on goal during the entire second half.

Gigi Cooke scored first for Davidson off an assist by Jacquelin Ukrop, who about six minutes later, scored herself on
a solo effort. The score at the half was two apiece. Two minutes into the second half, sophomore Jennifer Roos
scored on a direct corner hit to make it 3-2. To finish it off, Cooke netted another on a penalty
stroke and Simone Plaisance dribbled around the goalkeeper to score another unassisted goal for the Cats.

Coach Betsy was definitely pleased with the team’s performance. “It was a great start to our season; our...Depth really paid
off and kept us going 100 percent,” she said, referring to the difficulty of playing in relentless heat and humidity.
“Catawba was not as intimidating and that made a big difference. They also hadn’t been practicing as long,” she added.

The 1-0 Wildcats take the field this Friday against last year’s Deep South Tournament Champion and ACC member Wake Forest.
Game time is 4:00 and deserves a strong turnout.

NOTE: In case there is any confusion about what the Deep South is, no, it is not the conference Davidson
has recently joined but a geographical section of the United States Field Hockey Association, a governing body of American hockey
which is not affiliated with the NCAA. In this region, there exists the Southeast Section of which the Deep South
is a subset. The Deep South is mainly an association league where NCAA teams such as Davidson, Appalachian State, and
Wake Forest play against NAIA schools such as Catawba, Pfeiffer College, and High Point College. These teams all convene for
a tournament in November at which games are played and all-stars are nominated, something Davidson has had a substantial amount
of success.

According to coach Pryor, the Deep South allows for each member school to challenge themselves against “national play they wouldn’t
get to otherwise.”

Bruce Balestier

On the Sport Front

Don't Put Television in Control of Sports

Television’s death grip on college athletics has been tightening gradually over the last decade, with increased coverage and increasingly monstrous
contracts to televise NCAA games. But in the last year, the impact of that control upon college sports has become
increasingly evident.

When Notre Dame opted to sign its own television contract with NBC, individual schools and conferences seemed to recognize the
tremendous bargaining power they could have, not to mention the great amount of money they stood to make, if only
they could align themselves in easily marketable, made-for-TV superconferences.

First, Penn State, a football independent and member of the Atlantic 10 in other sports, jumped to the Big 10.
This summer, Arkansas, a longtime member of the Southwest Conference, left the SWC for the Southeastern Conference. Now, within days,
Florida State, presently a football independent and member of the Metro Conference, will likely move to either the Atlantic Coast
Conference or the SEC. There has been talk, too, of Pac-10 expansion, a combined Big 8-SWC and a Super Metro
conference comprised of Eastern Seaboard football powers.

This means trouble. College athletic success, especially in basketball and football, has come to hinge on recruiting. Recruiting, in turn,
has come to depend on television exposure, for high school recruits yearn to play on TV. Television exposure, if the
trend continues, will soon depend on membership in a superconference with a television package of its very own. Schools outside
the superconference structure will be forgotten.

This situation has only been worsened by CBS’ new $1 billion contract with the NCAA for college basketball. Basketball powers
like Oklahoma, Michigan, and North Carolina have grown tired of sharing NCAA Tournament and television money with small schools like
Princeton and Davidson which, from time to time, receive automatic bids to the Tournament and earn a portion of that
money. The large schools feel that since they field more teams and

See TELEVISION on Page 11
