Inside art is back! Pages 8-9

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 15

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, February 7, 1990

Results from the SGA laundry survey

How does the mandatory laundry fee wash with students?

By JENNIFER SIECK

Some students are already aware of the interest on campus in the college laundry service because last semester they filled
out orange laundry evaluations designed by the SGA. The results from that survey are as follows:

Students surveyed: 339 (120 male; 219 female)
Classes: 69 seniors; 72 juniors; 131 sophomores; 60 freshmen

How often do you use the laundry?
Sometimes: 93
Always: 183
Never: 31
Only linen: 26

Do you feel the laundry does a satisfactory job?
Yes: 211
No: 74
Ok: 15

What do you send?
Dress shirts: 174
T-shirts: 257
Pants: 202
Dresses: 44
Skirts: 51
Underwear: 255
Shorts: 230
Towels: 277
Socks: 270

The most respondents came from the class of '92. Many more people used the laundry service “sometimes” or “always,” than
“never” or “only linen.” The most popular items sent to the laundry were: towels, t-shirts, and underwear, in that order.
And more people were satisfied with the laundry than were not.

Some people’s comments and suggestions from the forms include the following:
“I would not mind having my parents pay several hundred dollars for a laundry service that I do not use
if there were adequate washers and dryers provided for those who choose to use them. Typically, to do one load
of laundry requires about three hours: wait for the washer then...”

See WASH & DRY, page 2

Big buy from Knights

Baseball gets new clubhouses, concession stands

By JULIE BREWER

The baseball and soccer teams recently purchased several new facilities from the Charlotte Knights AA baseball team. Some of the
facilities are expected to be ready for use during the spring season.

The new facilities consist of two clubhouses, two sets of men’s and women’s restrooms, two concession stands, and a set
of bleachers which seats 800 people. The clubhouses hold 30 people each, with locker rooms, offices, and training rooms. The
baseball team will use one clubhouse for the players and to store equipment. The other clubhouse will be used for
many different purposes.

Davidson bought the facilities for a fraction of what it would have cost to build. “There were a lot of
groups interested. We basically got $300,000 of merchandise for $45,000,” said Jim Stoeckel, head baseball coach.

These buildings were originally built as temporary replacements when the stadium for the double A Charlotte O’s, owned by Francis
Crockett, burned down five years ago. After the Knights built a 10,000-seat stadium, President of the Knights, Roman Gabriel, opened
the sale of the facilities to bidders. Former Davidson head baseball coach, George Greer, expressed an interest.

The opening of the Baker Sports Complex hampered Davidson’s ability to make a considerable bid, but Coach Stoeckel went to
the Wildcat Club and the inside donors to see how much they could offer. He also kept in touch with
Gabriel. “Most of the credit belongs to Jim Stoeckel and his relationship with the Knights,” said Assistant Athletic Director, Bob
Price.

After much negotiation, an amount was agreed upon, and as part of the deal, the Charlotte Knights hauled the buildings
and equipment to Davidson.

Davidson paid $5,000 down and will pay $10,000 every July 1 for four years. “It is really an excellent deal
for Davidson. There is a substantial price for hooking up the facilities, but that is nothing compared to what we
would have had to pay to build the facilities,” said Price. “Right now it looks like more ballpark than Davidson
needs, but it is one of those things to take advantage of when the opportunity arises.”

The first goal is to hook up the sewer and electricity for the baseball clubhouse, and then work on the
concessions and restrooms. One set of restrooms will be located by the soccer field. “They will not be complete for
a while, but we are fairly close. We are trying to do an awful lot with the little we have,”
said Stoeckel.

Stoeckel mainly wants to make the baseball experience more enjoyable for all the players, but he also sees the possibility
of using these facilities to draw people to Davidson. “With the Lake Norman area expanding, we want to attract more
people to the Davidson campus. We can do this through athletics,” said Stoeckel.

Stoeckel also hopes to see the students and the community become more involved. “Families can come to spend the day,
and the bleachers are in the sun, so I hope to see students out studying on them.”

This was no false alarm!

The Davidson Fire Department responded Monday night to Cannon Dorm after a pillow ignited after being left too close to
a lamp. The pillow is currently on display in front of the dorm, just next door to the charred mattress
outside of Sentelle leftover from a fire last December.

Photo by Ed Matthews
