**The Davidsonian**

VOLUME LXXXII THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1990 NUMBER 2

Davidson Students Enjoy Final Warm Days of Summer

French Ambassador to Visit Davidson: Will Speak at Dean Rusk Program

By ELLIE BROWN

H.E. Jacques Andreani, French Ambassador to the United States, will make his first visit to North Carolina on Tuesday, September
18. His visit to Davidson is sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies. A small group of the
College’s faculty and students will have the unique opportunity to meet with him in informal discussion at 10 a.m. at
Davidson’s Center for Special Studies. Afterward, he will attend a private luncheon in his honor at Charlotte’s Tower Club, co-hosted
by former Charlotte mayor John Belk and Davidson College President John Kuykendall. Director of the Dean Rusk Program Jack Perry
was a colleague of Andreani’s during the 1960s when Perry served as a U.S. foreign service officer in Paris.

Harvey Gantt Senate Drive Stops in Davidson

By TOM KOONCE

As the 1990 Senatorial race between Harvey Gantt and Jesse Helms heads into the final two months, the two candidates
continue to carry their campaign messages across the state of North Carolina. On Sunday, Democratic candidate Gantt visited the Davidson
area during a fifteen-hour day that took him across the central Piedmont. Gantt’s stop in Cornelius was part of a
Davidson Citizens for Harvey Gantt fundraiser at the Torrence Chapel A.M.E. Zion Church. The fundraiser was organized by Arnold James,
a psychology professor here at Davidson. The program consisted of flute music and a reception. Dr. Yvonne Kendall, a professor
in the

Committee Focuses on Campus Unity

By TOM KOONCE

Although the Solidarity Committee may appear to be a relatively new organization on campus, it has actually been around for
several years. The committee was formed by the Student Government Association (SGA) in 1984 in response to a KKK march
that was planned for Davidson. The committee was created to counter the KKK march by setting up a Solidarity rally
on campus. The Solidarity event was a huge success, but after that day was over, the committee became inactive. During
this dormant period, the committee remained on the SGA charter. It was not until last year that the SGA reactivated
the Solidarity Committee. It became active again because of rising interests about racial concerns on campus. The SGA chose the
members and provided the committee with a budget. The committee is led by four officers: Rafael Sanchez-Aballi, Michelle Blake, Joe
Cook, and a yet-to-be-determined freshman. Last year the committee staged several events, including a prayer vigil on Martin Luther King
Jr.’s birthday. More events are scheduled for this year as the committee is restructured and chair positions are filled.

The Solidarity Committee has a number of objectives for this year. They intend to raise awareness of the importance of
people of different nationalities, creed, race, and color on campus. The committee also hopes to improve the relationship between the
College and the African-American population in the town. According to Sanchez-Aballi, the committee is “optimistic to taking a leading role
for the quality of life of minorities on campus.” To achieve this, Sanchez-Aballi believes that establishing dialogue among all peoples
on campus is essential to improving the quality of life. Sanchez-Aballi also intends for the committee to become highly visible
and more involved because their mission is essential and vital to Davidson. The Solidarity Committeeis open to everyone. There is
no limit on membership. The first meeting will be held Monday, September 17 at 8:00 p.m. in the Union. The
committee will then meet every two weeks to carry out their objectives. Forums, events for Hispanic Heritage Week, and a
Martin Luther King Jr. celebration are already planned for the upcoming year.

Perry said that the current trouble in the Middle East is likely to be a major topic of conversation for
the French Ambassador, since France and Britain are the only two NATO allies actively collaborating with the U.S. The futures
of Europe and NATO may also be discussed. Andreani is a graduate of the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris and
the Ecole Nationale d’Administration. A career diplomat, he began his service in 1953 at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He
held posts at the French embassies in Washington and in Moscow before he was assigned as deputy assistant secretary for
east European affairs and first counselor of the French delegation to NATO. Andreani was placed in charge of the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) for the French Foreign Ministry before taking the helm of the French delegation
of CSCE in Geneva. Named director of European affairs at the Foreign Ministry in 1975, Andreani served as Ambassador to
Egypt from 1979-1981, and then was appointed director of political affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ambassador to Italy
from 1984-1988, he was appointed to his current position last November after serving as chief of staff to Foreign Affairs
Minister Roland Dumas.

Despite his late arrival, Gantt gave a short talk to the forty or so people gathered for the reception. His
speech was essentially a pep talk from the heart, urging people to remain active in their support of his campaign.
Gantt also asked for everyone to work to persuade others to help out in his race with Helms for a
US Senate seat. Acknowledging that the road ahead will be tough, Mr. Gantt said that by continuing to work, everyone
can help to “Bring Jesse home.” Although there was not as high a turnout as James would have liked, the
fundraiser was considered a success. About $2000 was pledged to Gantt’s campaign at the event and through pledge cards sent
out around the area.

Vail Commons Feeds 110 Extra Mouths This Semester
By GEORGE LAFAYE

As a result of the larger than usual freshman class and more upperclassmen choosing to dine at the Commons, the
Dining Service now has 751 students on their contract-meal program, up from 640 last year. Carleton Pritchard of the Dining
Service says that the increase is not solely due to the increase in the size of the freshman class, but
is also a result of more upperclassmen using the Commons. In addition to the influx caused by the closing of
PAX, Pritchard says that new developments in the Dining Service have made eating at the Commons more attractive. Principal among
these new ideas is a new focus on nutrition, including the addition of a staff nutritionist who, among other duties,
assists students in developing sensible dietary regimens. According to Pritchard, the dining staff has been able to cope with the
recent influx. He says, “We’re glad to have more people eat here. The more the merrier.”
