THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Foundations, Bank Award Davidson College for Scholarships

Courtesy of COLLEGE RELATIONS

Davidson College has recently been awarded money from two foundations and a bank for scholarships.

Hearst Foundation

Robert M. Frehse, executive director of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation of New York City, announced a grant of $35,000
to Davidson College towards the goal of $100,000 to establish a scholarship fund for minority students. “We are pleased that
the Hearst Foundation has joined Davidson in the effort to make higher education more accessible to a greater number of
minority students,” said President John W. Kuykendall.

The William Randolph Hearst Endowed Scholarship Fund for Minority Students will be used to attract high-achieving minority students to Davidson.
The college has established a $4 million goal for minority scholarships over the next five years. The William Randolph Hearst
Foundation was founded in 1948 by the publisher and philanthropist William Randolph Hearst. The Foundation reflects the interests of Mr.
Hearst: human services, education, health, culture, and minority concerns. The Foundation maintains offices in New York and in San Francisco.

Steele Reese Foundation

The Steele Reese Foundation of New York City has awarded $200,000 to Davidson College for scholarships to students from the
Appalachian region, with preference for students from eastern Kentucky. “This award ensures that students from the Appalachian region will continue
to be a significant percentage of students at Davidson. With this grant, the Steele-Reese Foundation has contributed to the future
of Davidson College and the entire region,” said President John W. Kuykendall.

The award will provide annual scholarship aid and endow need-based scholarships enabling students from rural areas of western Virginia, North
and South Carolina, and eastern Tennessee, and Kentucky to attend Davidson College. In addition, an anonymous donor has awarded $500,000
to Davidson College for need-based scholarships. The grant will be paid when Davidson raises an additional $1 million for need-based
scholarship endowment for students from the Southeast region.

Davidson College has a policy for meeting 100 percent of demonstrated financial need of its students. Unlike many selective institutions,
the financial resources of a student and his or her family play no role in the admissions process. No student
who is accepted to the college is turned away for lack of resources. The Steele-Reese Foundation was established in 1955
to address the philanthropic interests of Eleanor Steele Reese and Ernest P. Reese. One of the primary focuses of the
Foundation is higher education in the states of the southern Appalachian region and Idaho and contiguous states.

Trust Company Bank

The Trust Company Bank, Atlanta, has awarded a grant of $100,000 to Davidson College to establish a need-based scholarship fund
for students from Georgia. The fund will honor Robert Strickland, Davidson College Class of 1948, the former chief executive officer
of Suntrust Bank, the parent company of Trust Company Bank, Atlanta. “Bob Strickland has been a strong supporter of Davidson
College throughout the last 45 years, and this scholarship fund is a testament to his commitment and work,” President John
W. Kuykendall said. “We are indebted to both Bob and the Trust Company Bank for their support of our goals
in The Campaign for Davidson.”

Davidson has a goal of raising $25 million in scholarship endowment as part of The Campaign for Davidson. The $150
million Campaign was kicked off in November 1989 and has reached $73.8 million in gifts and pledges.

Historian to Discuss Cultural Context of Gone with the Wind

By LISA GERRARD

In an upcoming lecture at Davidson College, noted historian Joel Williamson will discuss Margaret Mitchell’s novel Gone with the Wind
in the context of race, sex, and violence in the American South of the early 1900s. The lecture is free
and begins at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 25, in the 900 Room of the College Union. Williamson, a history
professor at UNC Chapel Hill, is a specialist in race relations and has written several books on black-white relations in
the South since emancipation.

In his lecture, Williamson will pose the unusual question, “How black was Rhett Butler?” He believes that “white America” and
“black America” are closely related.an inevitable and ongoing kinship. He says that separation white America revolts against this awareness. “White
America, in its stubborn and residual egotism, resists the realization of how very deeply and irreversibly black it is, and
has been,” he wrote in A Rage of Order. “To recognize and respect the blackness within themselves would be to
recognize and respect the blackness that is within the nation,” he wrote. “It is an unhappy world that white America
has made, and it is unnecessary.” Williamson’s lecture, sponsored by Historical Studies, grows out of his current research on the
lives and work of southern writers. The Kelley Program was established in 1988 in memory of 1963 Davidson graduate Kendrick
K. Kelley to encourage work among history students. For more information on the lecture, contact the College Union at x2140.

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990

Graham Allison, former dean of the Kennedy School, spoke about "After the Cold War."

Graham Allison of Harvard Speaks
By TRENT STEVENS

“Beyond the Cold War” was the theme of a recent 900 Room speech by Graham Allison, a professor and former
dean of Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. Allison contended that the focal point of U.S. foreign policy
for the past four decades has been the Soviet Union and the military competition with the Soviet Union. He claimed
that the Soviet “threat” was the justification for the increasingly higher U.S. military expenditures of this era. But as he
acknowledged, “The Cold War ended.” He said that this represented a victory of the objectives of American foreign policy. “The
old verities that folks learned previously no longer hold,” he stated. “Most of the fixed points of the Cold War,”
he said, “are fixed points that have vanished or are currently vanishing.”

“We are going to have to think again,” is the conclusion he reached regarding the current situation, in which he
referred to the Soviet Union as “a vanishing fiction.” He noted that many fundamental questions regarding the future of American
foreign policy are now relevant. In fact, he ventured to make a prediction of a “second Russian Revolution,” even more
profound than the first one, which he compared to the French Revolution. “In the months ahead, and almost certainly before
the school year is out, the Soviet Union will cease to exist,” he said. Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian
republic, is the individual he credited as being a principal force behind the current reforms, which he said began as
a top-down exercise with the advents of glasnost and perestroika. Also, he suggested that even if the current government continues
to exist, he regarded a name change of the country to be a likely event.

He cited six alternative futures for the state of the Soviet Union during the course of the next three to
five years. The first of these is a disintegration of the Soviet Union into a loose confederation of Soviet republics
with disestablished central ministries and a move to market economics in each of the republics at their own individual paces.
The next alternative he suggested was a continuation of the slowing down of the Soviet Union, which he referred to
as “muddling through” or “muddling down.” He felt that this would eventually lead to a state of general confusion.

The third possibility he highlighted was the one he felt was least likely: an orderly evolution of a market economy
and a democracy with some limited decentralization. Although Washington seems to hope that this is the eventual outcome of the
recent changes, Allison alluded to the enthusiasm of the demands of the Soviet republics as being a factor blocking such
an evolution.

The reassertion of authoritarian discipline in the Soviet Union or in some of its component parts was his fourth alternative
future, and one of the ones he considered least likely. The Russian state, the KGB, and the Russian military were
the forces that he felt could maintain the absolute authority of the central government, as found in the pre-Gorbachev Soviet
Union.

A fifth future consisted of a civil war, which he suggested could result from the breakdown of the military hierarchy.
To back up this

Continued on Page 4
