THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS  
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990  

Campus Crime and Davidson  
Campus Crime Washes Over Nationwide Campuses  
By B.J. HOEPTER  

(CPS) - A student is found strangled in his dorm room at Lock Haven University in Pennsylvania. Student editors return to their office at Bridgewater State College in Massachusetts one day in September to find $23,000 in computer equipment stolen. At about the same time, police arrest four Delaware State College students, charging them with the gang rape of a nearby resident. A student at State University of New York at Buffalo is found raped and strangled on Sept. 30.  

Such scenes, observers say, have unfolded at an unusually high number and broad range of campuses this fall as something of a crime wave seems to be washing over American higher education:  

“College campuses are just seething with crime,” said Dr. Alan Lizotte, associate dean of criminology at the State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany. “They’re horrible places.”  

“A lot of students are scared,” added Rob Tumney, an Ohio State University senior who heads the school’s Crime Watch Escort Service. “They don’t go out alone.”  

The fear has turned into wild rumors at some campuses. Administrators at Iowa State University spent the first week of October trying to convince students that there was not a serial rapist on campus.  

But the crime threats are real. While campus crime statistics are notoriously unreliable, Purdue, Yale and Loyola of New Orleans universities as well as the universities of Colorado at Boulder and California at Santa Barbara all report an increase in crime during the past year.  

Much of the nationwide student skittishness, of course, stems from the brutal late-August murders of one Santa Fe Community College student and four University of Florida students. While police still search for clues and someone to charge with the slayings, the tragedy made the subject of campus crime more visible than ever. Recent stories on the Oprah Winfrey Show, Good Morning America, ABC News and in USA Today have fanned the flames.  

In truth, campus crime was getting so prevalent in 1988 that an “anti-fear movement” grew up at Michigan State University, the University of Illinois, Brown, Marquette, Millersville State, Duke, Mankato State, Yale and Northwest Missouri State universities. Pleas for better protection from criminals were central parts of protests at Tennessee State University, Morgan State University, Paine College in Georgia, Marygrove College in Michigan and the University of South Carolina during the 1989-90 school year.  

“It’s hard to know whether (the amount of) crime is going up or whether the appearance of crime is going up,” says Lizotte. Students may have been living in the midst of such dangers for years. The difference is that now they know about it.  

Lizotte noted it has become more acceptable for campus newspapers to report crimes, especially “sensitive” crimes such as rape, creating an illusion of an increase. Student papers like The Standard at Southwest Missouri State University have had to sue to gain access to crime reports from administrators concerned about privacy and publicity issues. Crime articles have created a sense of anxiety on campus among students.students and employees,” said Michael P. Riccards, president of Shepherd College in West Virginia, in denouncing the student newspaper on Oct. 5 for publishing stories detailing a Shepherd student’s rape. “I don’t see it (campus crime) increasing any more than it has in society in general,” said John Carpenter, public safety director at San Diego State University. “We can’t get away from what’s happening around us.” Even the perception of a crime wave this term can be explained by “a seasonal shift,” said Lt. Brenda King of Purdue University, where most crimes tend to occur in the fall. Purdue police received 108 personal property theft reports in September alone, compared to 426 during the first six months of 1990. “People are new and glad to be back” during the fall term, and may overextend their new sense of freedom by victimizing their classmates,” King speculated. SUNY’s Lizotte agreed there has been an increase in personal thefts at campuses in the past 20 years. It may be because students these days tend to have so many expensive, portable, and stealable belongings. “In 1950, if you’d wanted to steal a television you’d need three men and a truck,” Lizotte said. “Today you’ve got laptop computers.”

“The Campus Police department reports that 17 bicycles totaling over $7500 in value have been stolen since the opening day of the Fall semester. Of the seventeen bicycles stolen, only four were locked and only eight were registered with the police department. According to a Campus Police release, the overall crime rate at Davidson College has dropped compared to last year, but the rate of bicycle larcenies has marked a substantial gain. The release lists seven ways to prevent bicycle theft on the Davidson campus. The Campus Police department encourages the students and faculty at Davidson College to “work together and stop this senseless loss of property.”

1. Use a hardened steel lock. Thieves use bolt cutters to remove padlocks and chains. The bookstore has ordered the hardened steel horseshoe locks and will be selling them at cost.
2. Never leave your bicycle unattended.
3. Register your bicycle with the police department.

The problem is made worse since students often have trusting natures which keep them from locking doors or questioning strangers who might appear, Lizotte said. With the crime wave has come more elaborate security measures. University of St. Louis police have started using metal scanners to search students at school dances. At Mankato State University, new security cameras are trained on campus parking lots to catch thieves and vandals. The University of Southern Colorado has instituted student patrols to help campus security keep an eye out for crime. Not to be outdone, Ohio State is starting an off-campus crime patrol.

Prem Manjooran '92
I think there should be more lighting around campus by the library and main part of campus. We need more accessible telephones, especially where people study at night.

Bethan Faust '93
More lighting by the Science building and going down the hill. Also, a security phone in Cunningham.

Molly Sentell '94
I think there should be better lighting between the library and the dorms and a phone at the base of each dorm.

Compiled by Racheal Epes
All Photos Taken By "Suma"