THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1990

D.A. Thompson | Rude Notes and Random Scribblings

Ho Ho This For Christmas Time

Yippee tie yay muthasanta! It’s almost Christmas time again. I love this time of year! Really, what on earth could
be better than having to write a buttload of papers and taking far too many exams, but spending all the
money I don’t have buying presents for people I don’t like? Damned if I know.

How can one make this holiday season bearable, then? I happen to have an idea or two, but if I
didn’t, there wouldn’t be much of a column. So here they are, ten sure-fire ways to spice up a Christmas
vacation with the family:

1) Order Dad a year-long subscription to Hustler, sign the card “Candi”, and watch Mom have a conniption.
2) Teach your little cousins to sing “I Saw Mommy Doing Santa Claus”.
3) Go to department stores in your finest animal rights suit and throw reindeer blood on Santa.
4) Boost morale in the Persian Gulf by sending our boys several thousand copies of All Quiet on the Western
Front as a holiday treat.
5) Get a Christmas morning Strip-O-Gram for Grandma.
6) Stand out on the sidewalk asking passersby if they’ve found Jesus.
7) Make a present of your little brother’s dog to that Cambodian family down the street.
8) Have a Teenage Mutant Ninja Christmas with Debbie Gibson and The New Kids.
9) Spit on your antiquated Auntie Esther.
10) Worry about your rapidly approaching grades.

I hope these tips come in handy. But let’s not forget the highlights from those Davidson wish lists! Dr. Kuykendall
writes asking Santa for a spot higher than 10th on next year’s U.S. News survey, unlike the former president of
American University who'd like a little help with his phone bill. Dean Terry is hoping for several little devices, the
description of which good taste prohibits, and a new kegerator for his office. Junior Andrew Baker, along with most of
the male members of Davidson’s faculty, wants a free membership in the Hair Club for Men. Dr. Kuzmanovich has asked
for a new copy of Beach Blanket Bingo. Senior Jeff Fraley is just dying to win that New Kids look-alike
contest.

Before I go, I’d like to share this little anecdote from W.C. Fields: "I believed in Christmas until I was
eight years old. I had saved up some money carrying ice in Philadelphia, and I was going to buy my
mother a copper-bottomed clothes boiler for Christmas. I kept the money hidden in a brown crock in the coal bin.
My father found the crock. He did exactly what I would have done in his place. He stole the money.
And ever since then I’ve remembered nobody on Christmas, and I want nobody to remember me either."

If that’s not enough to put you into the Yuletide mood, just remember the words of Kin Hubbard: "Next to
a circus, there ain’t nothin’ that packs up and tears out any quicker than the Christmas spirit.”

Merry Merry Folks! I'll be back next term! (Both quotations from: The Portable Curmudgeon).

An Alumni's View Of The Middle East Crisis
By DUNCAN MCBYRDE '33

As the Mideast imbroglio began, one’s first impulse was to laugh: having lived and worked in the area for a
few years, nothing seemed surprising. One asked jokingly “Hussein and Who’s Insane?” “Is the Bush League really going to try
to play in the Saudi sandlot?” “Is George really going to interrupt his vacation to tee off into the Arabian
sandtrap?” It must have been a nightmare: “I dreamed I’d been taken by the Thief of Baghdad, but then Iran!”
“Well, there’s no disputing about tastes: what’s one man’s Mede is another man’s Persian, one might say.” However, by the
bitter outcry with a Palestinian accent: “They tellIraq to get out of Kuwait, but they won’t tell Israel to get
out of the West Bank!” But we kept trying to chuckle, hoping the chimera would vanish. To keep smiling, we
even dredged up Willard Espy’s ancient joke that an Arab would always win in a camel race against a Jew,
because no matter how good a camel driver a Jew was, the Arab would be a Bedouin. But humor turned
out to be nothing but whistling in the dark, and the chimera didn’t vanish but grew more horns and hoofs.
Unanswerable questions took over: have we forgotten Dean Rusk's warning that we can’t forever play den mother to the world?
Have we forgotten Vietnam, Grenada, Libya, Panama? In our impulsiveness, have we abandoned all possibility of negotiation, burned our bridges,
beaten our ploughshares into swords, already passed the point of no return?

Publisher Rolfe Neill of the CHARLOTTE OBSERVER (Aug 19) points out that “Our ‘noble’ Mideast Venture Depends on Who’s Defining
It;” that in our one-sided pro-Israel policy we have tragically misunderstood and neglected the needs of 200 million Arabs in
the area; that we are sending thousands of young military personnel into what they think is a mission of honor
and rescue, but they are not prepared for the reception awaiting them, and needing a better understanding of why in
many places they are booed instead of cheered. And we shudder to add to this the parallel hospitality-in-reverse awaiting our
civilian countrymen in involuntary exile. Since it seems a bit late to say “with justice for all,” or “teach us
to understand,” or “teach us to love,” maybe we'd better ask, “teach us to pray!”

Duncan MacBryde ’33 is a retired Presbyterian Minister and former State Dept Foreign Service Staff Officer in the Middle East.

Boston University
232 Bay State Road
Boston, MA 02215
617/353-9888

For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to:
International Programs

LONDON : PARIS

Each internship program includes: up to 16 Boston University semester-hour credits, full-time internships, course work taught by local faculty, centrally
located housing, and individualized placements for virtually every academic interest.

BOSTON UNIVERSITY
An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution

Media + Public Relations - Business - Advertising
Tourism - Fashion - The Arts - Government

WASHINGTON
Politics - Business/Economics - Legal Systems
International Relations - Communications - Health Fields - The Arts
Advertising/Marketing/PR - The Arts
Comparative Legal Systems - European Economy and Politics
Management/Economics/Finance - Journalism/Broadcast/Film
Politics and International Relations
Psychology and Social Policy

London Internship Programme
The Arts
Comparative Legal Systems

Name
Address
City
State
Zip
College/University
Summer Fall Spring 19___

European Economy and Politics
Management/Economics/Finance
Psychology and Social Policy
Politics and International Relations
Advertising/PR/Marketing

Paris Internship
Washington Internship

For additional information call:
Kings Productions, the world’s #1 producer of entertainment, is holding auditions for the 1991 season at CAROWINDS, Charlotte, North Carolina.
A variety of positions are available and a travel fee will be paid to employees who must travel more than
250 miles.

Saturday, January 19, 1991:
Mead Hall
12-2 p.m. Singers, Specialty Acts
2-4 p.m. Dancers, Instrumentalists, Technicians
4-5 p.m. Characters, Escorts

Sunday, January 27, 1991:
Music Hall
12-3 p.m. Singers, Specialty Acts
3-4 p.m. Dancers, Instrumentalists, Technicians

For additional information call:
Kings Productions
800/544-5464

There will be a self-defense class on Monday, December 3 at the old Johnson Gym Basketball Court from 7 p.m.
to 8 p.m. Sponsored by Public Safety, SGA and Rape Awareness.

RENTALS
WEDDING ACCESSORIES
SERVICES

Occasions
Trophy Square
Cornelius, NC
892-9129
Thurs 10-8
Sat 10-4
