Wednesday, January 24, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Belligerent boy bites back

Dear Editors,

Lucia Kendall has once again written an article condemning sexist social practices at Davidson. If you missed this particular article, just pick up any old edition of The Davidsonian and you're likely to find one along the same lines. Now, at the risk of appearing a simpleton beside the intimidating intellect and penetrating-yet-sensitive wit of Miss Kendall, I feel that I represent every sensible person on this campus when I conclude that this stuff is garbage.

There is self-evident truth to Miss Kendall’s underlying point that men are not better than women and should not behave as if they are. Fine. But jumping from this perfectly sound yet utterly un-newsworthy truism to railing on the frivolous and harmless institution of homecoming queen elections is unwarranted, tedious, awful, and stupid.

Most strikingly wrong is Miss Kendall’s prejudiced notion that the election is a beauty contest. It is not. She is so eager to condemn the institution on gender-based grounds that she is somehow able to miss the real way the queen is chosen—largely by Patterson Court house allegiance. The actual process is much sillier than the concocted notion attacked in the article. It is, however, not nearly the degrading, sexist spectacle Miss Kendall paints it to be. It is merely juvenile, like much of the rest of what we students do.

Defending homecoming elections, though, is not my purpose. I do not really believe that more than eight or twelve people in this world could really get into arguing about something so dumb. Miss Kendall’s article is so irritating because it addresses something so utterly insignificant. It’s a silly little contest which comes along every year, minding its own business, entertaining many, and hurting none. The article aspires to make non-points about a non-issue. It isn’t even funny. It makes me want to swallow my tongue.

There are other, equally offensive, Kendall-penned gender-drivel articles which have appeared in this paper. Most notable was that whole man/woman/boy/girl/guy/gal/dog/cat/hermaphrodite thing. Let us not ignore, however, “A Day in the Life of a Happy PAX Person,” which hints that anyone in a fraternity or single-sex eating house is psychologically deficient.

I realize that I’m setting myself up for accusations ranging from, “What an ignorant uncultured Neanderthal,” to “God, what a jerk,” but someone had to say something about this foolishness. If Lucia must Let Loose, as it appears she must, I can only suggest that she attack something worthy of attack, such as, for example, the Atlanta Falcons’ decision to hire Jerry Glanville as their new head coach, or the fact that Saturday Night Live has not been funny for years, or, better still, the quality of her own articles.

Bryan Kirtley, ‘90

Keep that fan mail pouring in. Empty space like this just doesn't quite express how much you love us!

The Davidsonian reserves the right to edit and/or condense any letter. Please include the author’s home city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor
John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor
Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Power of elections

In the barrage of elections held last year, the absence of editors on the ballots may have gone...by unnoticed by many students. But for the first time in years, and perhaps ever, editors were appointed by a committee rather than elected by the student body. The Media Board, a group made up of three students, the dean of students, and several faculty and staff members, decided last year to expand its powers to include the selection of editors and managers of all student media for the new year—a decision based on a questionable interpretation of the College’s constitution. Students may be tempted to ask, “So what?” Well, here’s what: Although most editorships last year were uncontested, consider what will happen when two or more candidates apply for the same position? Under the procedure used last year, candidates sign up for interviews with the Media Board and are then selected by that committee. This method has the advantage of allowing a small group to study the candidates’ qualifications in greater detail than is possible with general elections. But interviews for The Davidsonian last year also included several questions about how the paper would support the College’s administration in the upcoming year—an unacceptable interjection of politics into the selection process. As means of student communication, the newspaper, yearbook, literary magazine, radio station, and Wildcat Handbook should serve the students first. While we welcome and encourage participation from staff, faculty, parents, and alumni, our primary goal is to represent the student body as best we can. Student elections are the device that lend validity to these institutions: Without being chosen by the students, how can leaders possibly attempt to represent them? Even when elections are not hotly contended, the symbolic significance of the selection process cannot be underestimated. Students are not infallible. And occasionally those chosen by the student body cross the boundaries of good (and legal) conduct. In such cases, a body such as the Media Board must intervene and should dismiss and appoint editors—but only in such cases. The yearly selection of editors should still fall to the student body. We believe this was the original intent of the writers of the College’s constitution and would like to see this interpretation reapplied. The trustees are being asked to return the power of selecting editors to the student body at their next meeting. We must stake our claim to this power before it slips permanently from our grasp.

—jlh

---

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines:

* All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
* Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
* All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names printed with their work.
* The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, but for the rules of English grammar only.
* Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit.
* The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other letters printed dealing with the same topic.
* All submissions should include the author's address and phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section should include the following information: the