Wednesday, Mar. 28, 9 p.m.
A panel discussion will follow.

Friday, Mar. 30, 7:30 p.m. & 10 p.m.

Bring Davidson I.D. and $1
Presented by the Union and
Women's Concerns Committee

ORIENT, from page 4
Children of the inalt has now

Wednesday, March 28, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

money (in hopes of getting cool free stuff), the address is:

Friends of Beer
c/o Civic Forum
Jungmann Square
Prague 1
Prague 11000
Czechoslovakia

covered 107 different beers. Next week I will begin ranking the world’s best beers according to category—ales, porters, lagers, etc. There are only two categories remaining: Irish, Scottish, Australian, New Zealand beers; and Northern European and Scandinavian beers. Time allowing, we will also delve into the world of grocery store and road trip brews in a beach weekend special edition.

Fran Fierro, working out of Senator Terry Sanford’s office, located the mailing address of Czechoslovakia’s political party “Friends of Beer.” For those of you who wish to send

These beers can be purchased at La Mart Deli and Wines, located on Sharon Amity between Albermarle and Central. Belk’s of Southpark also has a wonderful selection of beer.

This column is written out of the concern that, in a quest for quantities of beer, students too often overlook the quality.

He does know we're

Don't have a cow, Reggie. It's only for a couple days. You won't

Oh, hi Freddie. That's not a suitcase there, is it?

Coming, right? you've

AND HIS SPRING BREAK

even knows we're here!

Don't worry, guy! We'll take great care of the place. Say, where's the kitchen? I'm starved!

This is a great view you've got here! You don't mind if we have a party tonight, do you?

Thanks, guy! You'll have to re-stock your fridge!

Wow! This is amazing!

So, which ones are you going to invite?

Okay, the one in the red, the neon orange, the black, and the

Okay, as we walk along the beach, no tip bothering, obvious gawking. Well-tanned females that give us time of day should arrive for our party any moment.