4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1990

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

TRENT STEVENS, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor
HEATH HARDAGE, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
BETH PHARR, Associate Photo Editor
TED RICHARDSON, Associate Photo Editor

The Davidsonian

Founded in 1914

“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager

BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager

Advocating Activism

At Davidson where apathy is generally the rule, any form of activism is usually newsworthy. The Middle East rally staged by students on November 15 was such a case. Davidson students were given an opportunity to discuss the Persian Gulf crisis thanks to the organization of seniors Bob Hornsby and Molly Graver. Over 150 people signed a petition sent to President Bush urging him to focus more on diplomacy rather than aggression.

Yet more needs to be done. This week’s ultimatum by President Bush ordering Iraq to leave Kuwait by January 1 or face a military offensive is indicative of how close we are to fighting another war. Students should have reason to be concerned about these developments. Given the small population of Davidson, it is important to remember that in 1970 Davidson students protested U.S. involvement in Cambodia and the shooting of students at Kent State. The Student Government Association then adopted a resolution condemning the Cambodia and Kent State situations. Three professors held peace vigils.

Let us not have to cope with the horrors this college and the nation had to confront twenty years ago. Additional expressions of concern such as the one held recently need to take place. Only by educating ourselves about the political situation and alternative options the U.S. has can we hope to change the tragic policy President Bush is pursuing in the Middle East.

Letters

Patterson Court Thanked

To the Editors:
The children, staff, and community board of the Davidson-Cornelius Daycare Center would like to thank all Patterson Court participants and especially Greg Grooms and the Kappa Alpha house for the fundraising party you held on our behalf.

The $1400-plus that you donated far exceeded our expectations. As we work each year to provide a healthy and educational environment for the young children in our local community who need daycare, we hope for continued support of friends at the College.

In addition to financial contributions, we rely on college students as volunteers in the classrooms. We thank all of you, too, for helping to make the Daycare Center a special place in the lives of so many Davidson families.

Sincerely,
DR. RUTH AULT
Professor of Psychology
Member, Board of Directors
November 20, 1990

Basketball Ticket Policy Clarified

To the Editors:
We would like to clarify the basketball ticket policy for students. Due to student concern and confusion regarding the past ticket pick-up procedure, we have met several times to write a ticket policy that we believe is in the best interest of both the students and the ticket office.

The basketball program needs and deserves student support. This policy makes it easy for students to pick up tickets. Although it is possible to get tickets right before the game, the ticket office prefers for them to be picked up the day prior to a game. Because game day is so hectic it is much easier for them to accommodate students on the day before the game. Additionally, tickets are distributed on a first come, first serve basis, so students will get the better tickets if they pick them up early and will also avoid the chaos of picking up a ticket at game time.

Please respect this policy and do not forget that it falls within the jurisdiction of the Code of Responsibility. Also, do not forget to bring your ID to pick up tickets and to get into the game. Hope to see you at the game!

Sincerely,
LISA LENARD, ‘91
Student Member of Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics

ANNIE ADAMS, ‘92
Chairman of SGA Athletic Committee

SANDY SMITH
Assistant Athletic Director

MATT DOHERTY
Assistant Basketball Coach

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Thursdays during the school year by the students of Davidson College.
Please address fan mail and correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036.
Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149.

Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.
Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.

Subscriptions cost $25 per year.
Advertising rates available on request.
© 1990 The Davidsonian. Reproduction of any portion of any issue will not be allowed without permission. Rights for reprinting are held by the Trustees of Davidson College.