Wednesday, March 28, 1990
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Senior Susan Swift in the 100 meter hurdles at Saturday's track invitational. On the sports front - Photo by Ed Matthews

Balestier broods over
By BRUCE BALESTIER

It’s likely safe to assume that by now you've been angered by the fact that Johnston Gym (now apparently known as Johnston Building) will be closed for the next five weeks for the showing of an art exhibit. If you think about it, though, this is only logical, for Johnston Gym has been miraculously transformed into an extension of the College Union. Art exhibits, and the like, are the stuff of which college unions are made.

That a problem exists at all is simply because Baker Sports Complex is not fully operational. And it is a bit alarming that there is not an outlet for exercise at times (for instance, most evenings after 6 p.m.). Nonetheless, it seems to me a problem through which we can live, at least for a time. That a college of our modest size possesses an athletic complex of the magnitude of Baker at all is nothing short of incredible.

At the same time, it seems fairly evident that the college as a whole is navigating some difficult financial straits, and that some of that financial burden is being borne by the Athletic Department. It is for this reason that Baker continues to operate under abbreviated hours. As it is, from what I can gather, the weight room has been opened with a considerable amount of new weights for student use during Baker’s open hours. The still-undermanned staff at Baker has done an admirable job at keeping the main gym floor open for basketball until the upper courts are ready for basketball (the necessary padding is due in any day now, I am told), and IMAC volleyball games have already taken place on those upper courts. A full operating schedule, like the one on which Johnston ran, is definite for next semester, and may even come to pass before school’s end.

Meanwhile, the baseball Wildcats are red-hot, notwithstanding a 15-6 loss to the Wolfpack of N.C. State Tuesday at Wildcat Park. Entering that game, senior second baseman Mikio Aoki led the team with a .353 batting average. Freshman shortstop Rob Een-

In Good Health Says Goodbye
Prose By MARK D. PUCKETT

Centuries ago when my important ancestors stepped off the Mayflower in May of whenever it was of the year they came over, my famous cousin Leroy Rochester Jones Puckett began a health column called Inn Goode Healthe for unhealthy pilgrims. But Pilgrims pouted over the content and lynched Leroy Rochester with a stalk of corn. The day of the lynching, though, Leroy spoke the last impudent brazen saucy words he would ever speak again by captiously asserting, “Ha, the joke’s on you chowderheads.” But the Pilgrims cut him off, thus ending his life and his words.

Farewell to all you chowderheads who have wanted me to consecrate his words to some purpose in the final In Good Health by penning some of my own sacred words concerning life. “Don’t be an exercise impellent, Mark,” he said in my vision. “Live your life and leave others to live theirs.” Pansy. But, perhaps the pith and meat and essence...of Leroy is something to appraise and let her know that you wouldn’t take her away from her friends or smother her or force yourself on her and that you would respect her time and her space.

7. If you pull the tail off a salamander, it will regenerate and in due time it will grow back.

8. Everybody has an ego. Some people would kill you if there weren’t such a thing as the laws of man.

9. Everybody wants it. Therefore, everybody should get together.

10. The word "jacktitate" doesn't mean what you think it means. The gum in the bubble-gum ice cream is actually freeze-dried teeth.

11. Don’t buy albums off of television.

12. Take naps.

13. Make money first, then you can buy your friends.

That’s it. My voice is to the editorials except Oodles of Noodles because they look like shellacked peroxide blond hair. Anyway, you have a life until you die. Gather ye butterbeans (carpe beans) while ye may and don’t be a motorhead. And make your mark.

There are only a few weeks left in the year and you can’t think with her but would also like to.

Leroy, a pre-season All-America by Baseball Magazine, carried a .351 average into the game. He also paced the team with 39 hits, 23 runs scored, 23 runs batted in, and 4 home runs. Senior mound ace Greg Wilcox, now the all-time victory leader at Davidson with 28 (and counting), leads the Wildcat pitching staff with a spotless 7-0 ledger and a sparkling 1.89 earned run average. The 'Cats record now stands at 15-14-1; they have won six of their last eight games.

Men’s tennis stood at 10-7 before Tuesday’s match with Wake Forest. Coach Jeff Frank’s charges are gunning for a 17th consecutive winning season. Coach Caroline Price’s women’s tennis team held an 11-10 mark as they prepared to face Furman today in Greenville, S.C. In 15 years of varsity competition, women’s tennis has never had a losing season. They look forward to a home rematch with UNCC Tuesday, April 3 at 3 pm. The men’s team meets UNCC the following day at 2 pm.

Davidson's Complete Outdoors Store
CAMPING EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTALS
CASUAL AND TECHNICAL CLOTHING
HIKING BOOTS AND SANDALS
TRAVEL GEAR, CANOES, KAYAKS
SUNGLASSES, KNIVES, BOOKS, MAPS, ACCESSORIES
892-1848
I-77 TO EXIT 28 (HWY 73 WEST) ON TORRENCE CHAPEL ROAD IN SHOPS ON THE GREEN, CORNELIUS, NC
OPEN: MON-FRI 10-8, SAT 10-5

YO, IT'S TIME TO WATERSKI
WE PROVIDE BOATS, WATERSKIING EQUIPMENT, AND INSTRUCTION
$10 to join the club
$10 for a ski-team t-shirt
Contact: Mark Puckett, 6397, Chris Beach, 896-8225, or Bennet Waters.