Wednesday, February 7, 1990

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Albec Varoski is just one of this year's promising players on the tennis team. Photo by Beth Pharr

By JOHN BURNS

A drum roll, please... Ladies and Gentlemen... presenting, your new sports editor, starting next week, Bruce Balestier. (Cheers and immense
noise). But first, I get one last shot (heh heh), or two.

Baker is open! I hate to say it’s about time, but... it’s about time. The complex has a few new
rules that didn’t matter in Johnston. Biggest of all is the ID requirement. If you don’t bring your ID, you
can watch through the pretty glass walls as your friends play the variety of sports available in Davidson’s latest alumni-pleaser.
Also, sources say you have to wear goggles if you want to play racquetball. You didn’t have to in Johnston,
but I guess the administration doesn’t mind us getting hurt when no one can see us. But with glass walls
and important contributors walking in at any moment, I guess we have to wear the vision-obstructing pieces of plastic that
pass for safety goggles.

On the sports front

Burns’ parting shots

Next: It is time for Davidson to hire a full-time wrestling coach. Not someone who works at another job all
day and then (with much personal sacrifice, I am sure) spends his afternoon coaching a struggling program. If we want
to have a top-notch athletic department, wrestling is a must sport (and one in which we can compete at a
high level). I recently talked to a former wrestler, a freshman. He was a highly ranked grappler in high school
who received a scholarship from another school. He did not know Davidson had a program until he got here. You
can’t have a good team with mediocre recruiting, or for that matter, with four wrestlers. I am not denigrating the
guys that bust their butts every day in the wrestling room, but they need a real program.

Next: Several weeks ago I asked you to give me ideas for my column. Someone took me up on that
suggestion this week. A guy on my hall walked by and said this (note, this is not my idea): “Why
doesn’t the school try dropping football for, say, five years, developing the other programs, getting into a conference and then,
if warranted, bringing football back. What do you think?” After picking my jaw back up off the floor, I told
him I'd put it in the paper. Now, your turn, get some discussion going, is that a viable alternative?

Last: “Dick Harter sucked, but couldn’t Steinbrenner... er, I mean, Shinn have fired him to his face? Wouldn't it be
great if the owner could get fired by the City of Charlotte or something? As much as I hate to
say it, Rex Chapman is a spoiled brat. Good luck Bruce, she’s all yours. I’ll see the rest of you
occasionally on the opinions page opposite of Lucia. Or maybe in place of Lucia... hmm...

One more thing, Bruce, make sure you give the Wildkittens equal coverage next year (ha ha ha, I kill me).
As Bart would say: so long, dude.

Guy Stanton, a sophomore from Allentown, Va., gave it his best shot at the Tournament of Champions last weekend, but
the winners were more seasoned seniors. Photo by Robert Marshall

Peter Bream concentrates at foosball, the other name of table soccer. Despite his effort, George Kurani and Topher Hardin emerged
as the champions. Photo by Robert Marshall

Tournament of Champions results! From THE ONIONMAN Pool-Branson Prosser (#2) defeated Gates Grainger (#1) in the final match 4-1.

Table Tennis (singles) - Doug Hicks (#1) came back from the losers bracket to eliminate Union god and trombone virtuoso
Hugh Lee 4-3 in the second of two matches.

Table Tennis (doubles) - Hicks and Lee eliminated Thomas Fischer and Suresh Acharaya 4-2.

Table Soccer - Topher Hardin and George Kurani were the

Young tennis team looks ahead
By ROBERT GRUBB

The men’s tennis team opened what promises to be a challenging season with a difficult tournament over the weekend. Fifth-ranked
South Carolina, fourteenth-ranked Clemson, fifteenth-ranked Kentucky, and top 30 North Carolina joined Lander (S.C.) and Davidson for the Davidson Indoor
Invitational.

Davidson Coach Jeff Frank acknowledged that the field was extremely tough. “I told the guys that this was strictly for
experience and practice. We didn’t really have any expectations against teams like this, especially early in the season,” said Frank.

Unfortunately, the team played as expected. Davidson had a difficult time in both the singles and doubles. Davidson’s top player,
Tim Hagood, was the only first-round winner in the main draw. Hagood beat Ben Bradshaw of Clemson but was eliminated
in the second round. He was entered in the consolation draw, where he lost to Mark Pauls of South Carolina.
Pauls went on to win the consolation draw. Freshman Albie Varoski also made a strong showing. He lost his first-round
match but advanced to the semifinals of the consolation. Charles Jordan also played well, defeating John Venison of Kentucky 6-1,
6-1.

The Wildcat doubles teams did not enjoy much success over the weekend. All four doubles combinations lost in the first
round. Frank attributed this partly to the fact that the team is still working on developing its strategies. Davidson’s number
one doubles team of Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer lost 6-3, 6-3 to Stephane Simian and David Hopper of South
Carolina. Simian and Hopper are ranked tenth in the nation. Simian also won the singles, beating his partner in the
finals.

For Frank, the tournament was also an opportunity to see his players in a match. He intends to use the
results to determine his lineup for the beginning of the season. With the loss of last year’s number one seed,
Sebastian Koch, the Wildcats are left with a top group of several players. According to Frank, no one has clearly
dominated. Injuries to Zabell and Joey Manibo during preseason practice have also prevented Frank from coming up with a concrete
lineup. “Hagood will likely play number one for us, because as a senior he has the experience necessary to play
there,” said Frank. “Varoski will probably play second. I really wouldn’t want a freshman higher than that.”

A group consisting of Zabell, Jordan, Beyer, and Manibo closely follows Hagood and Varoski, and will likely see most of
the action in the singles slots. However, Frank said that nothing was permanent because there are at least three players
that can challenge for starting positions. “Elijah Gowan, Gary Wheeler, and Dale Voeks will all likely play this year,” said
Frank. “If a guy has a few bad matches and one of these guys has been playing well, we'll make
changes. This should keep everyone on their toes.”

The outlook for doubles seems to be clearer. Zabell and Beyer team up at number one, followed by Voeks and

See TENNIS, page 6

You’re enough to get your Geography, Entertainment, and Sports & Leisure wedges all in one turn.

OT) Old sMart
