THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

D.A. Thompson | Rude Notes & Scribblings

Smoke, and Smoke Heartily!

In the two weeks since we have returned from our summer holidays, an overabundance of advice has been hurled at
me in regard to my penchant for smoking. Some very kind and loving people have expressed their concern for my
physical well-being and made emotional pleas for me to kick my "icky gross" habit, while others have offered such pearls
of wisdom as “those things’ll kill you” as they warmheartedly pat me on the back and chuckle to themselves on
their way to the athletic complex, extremely pleased with the insight and wit of their comment. I am touched that
so many seem to care for the condition of my physiognomy, but I must confess that I have no plans
to cease my taking of tobacco.

You see, smoking is a simply wonderful habit. As Fran Liebowitz states in The Portable Curmudgeon, “smoking is the whole
point of being an adult.” Mark Twain, as is also revealed in The Portable Curmudgeon, lived by the simple rule
of never smoking while he was asleep, and never refraining while awake. In my own opinion, smoking is one of
the finest activities in which a human being can engage.

First, let’s look at smoking from a philosophical point of view. I would contend that it is the ability we
have to smoke which truly separates humankind as a class of being higher than any other. Those who smoke are
living, breathing (for now, anyway) examples that humanity is motivated by something greater than the pain vs. pleasure principle. What
creature laughs as loudly in the face of impending doom as the smoker? Some may say that we are merely
stupid, so addicted to our little drug that we are blind to the dangers of its use. No, no, my
all too physically fit friends, that is by no means the case. We know what smoking can do to us,
but because we cannot be frightened by such things as medical reports and warnings, because our thoughts and actions cannot
be controlled by a Surgeon General, because we love freedom and are willing to express our individualism thirty or forty
times a day, we smoke. Every time I light up, I know I am giving my character the workout I
have not allowed my body. As Frank Knight Lord IV ’89 put it, “Anyone can quit smoking, but it takes
true inner strength to face a slow and painful death by emphysema and lung cancer”; or, put more succinctly by
Peter Tavernise ’90, “Black lung is beautiful.”

But let’s look at this thing from another point of view, that of the concerned citizen. In these troubled times,
it is essential for the spirit of patriotism to flourish and for American industry to prosper. What is more American
than the Tobacco industry? What institution clings more tightly to the time-honored traditions of capitalism? Where else in the world
can you go into any corner store and purchase a product that induces pain and death, upsets others, and smells
so good without paying more than a few pennies in taxes?

In closing, I urge all of you who do not smoke to begin, and those of you who do to
continue. Smoke, and smoke heavily, for you, your freedom, and your country.

9 a.m. - SGA Elections For: House Senators Independents Tuesday Sept. 11 Where to Vote: Chambers or Union Conversation Pit

Sara Carlson

Good Thing Wet T-Shirt Flyers Were a Joke

(Warning: the following article was written by a crusading liberal feminist Democratic voting woman)

My faith in Davidson is renewed. For a while last year it seemed that we were falling deep into a
pit of conservative complacency, rolling into the ‘90s in a Reagan-induced haze of confusion and apathy. Either...That assumption was false
or a large portion of the student body woke up one morning and decided to vote for Harvey Gantt. Whatever,
the result is marvelous. Cheer 90, Davidson’s spirit commission, decided to advertise a wet t-shirt contest as a prelude to
the Lunar Luau, a Union-sponsored event held last Friday in the stadium. That this was to be an all-male competition
was not mentioned in any of the flyers put up throughout the Union and Chambers, and a large portion of
the female population was deeply offended, myself included.

Wet t-shirt contests epitomize the barbarous objectification of women portrayed so frequently in our “entertainment” media. Hollywood and New York
seem to see women as either sitcom bimbos, evil demon-possessed seducers, porn queens, or multiple-personality homeless welfare cheats. Or sex
objects. Or all of the above. The few positive images of women in the media are creatures totally computer-generated by
graphic artists and magazine editors, engineered to perfection with a little silicon enhancement, and complete with non-existent pores and “perky”
figures. That a real woman would compare herself to these pictures and feel insufficient is not difficult to imagine. And
real women are constantly asked to compare and judge themselves against such inventions, leading the emotionally balanced liberal arts student
to wonder if maybe she shouldn’t just bag all the studying and join The Donald’s tabloid harem.

Cheerleaders, of all people, understand objectification. Having cheered in high school, I learned that a tuck jump earns groans, a
walkover enthusiastic yells, and a back flip wild wolf whistles and, occasionally, a date. It never occurred to many of
the spectators that I cheered not because I enjoyed seeing men pant, but because I truly held pride in my
school and its athletic department. Davidson cheerleaders are no different. For this reason, I assumed the flyers had to be
a joke. I could not imagine what was planned, and when questioned, a cheerleader told me to come to the
rally and see for myself.

What I saw was nothing. Lots of football, volleyball, soccer, and field hockey players, but not a single wet t-shirt.
Happy but puzzled, I enjoyed the evening. Apparently, the cheerleaders themselves saw the deep irony of the situation. That the
women who are the backbone of Davidson’s spirit would degrade themselves by participating in an event which traditionally capitalizes on
the feminine breast is beyond ridiculous. Many people rationalized that since the contest would not involve women it was merely
harmless fun and clever advertising. I find such an attitude misguided at best. Realistically, when a person sees the words
“wet t-shirt contest,” football players doused in water is not the first image to leap to mind. Buxom beauties bouncing
in clingy transparent fabric is the likely connotation.

I cannot stress how much I commend the decision to drop the event from the Luau agenda, despite the support
many of the men on campus lent to the hypothetical contest. Such students do not understand or do not want
to understand the emotional impact such contests have on the feminine person. That Davidson does not support offensive objectification of
the human body is one necessary step in alleviating the sexist tension constant in the fabric of our school. Hopefully,
we’re growing into a more open-minded community based on respect, instead of tooth and (carefully polished) nail competition.

3 p.m. SSI ISA0

COMPLETE LINE OF LINGERIE
Bras -- Panties -- Slips -- Teddies
Gowns -- P.J.s -- Robes -- Slippers
Hosiery -- Leggings -- Jewelry
Exercise Wear -- Jogging Suits
Also: Hospital Gowns & Bras
Men's Pajamas

LOUNGEWEAR OUTLET
Sweat Shirts
Across From The
“First Quality At Outlet Prices”
Mon-Sat 10-6
20823 N MAIN STREET
HERITAGE PLAZA
