THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1990

Part Two: Student Continues Fighting After Bone Marrow Transplant

By DAVID LINDSAY

In the couple of weeks since the first article about my bone marrow transplant experience, I have been both motivated and inspired to have so many people express their full support of our cause—the bone marrow registry drive to be held this spring. In keeping with the holiday spirit, our theme is the “Gift of Life.” I strongly feel that this registry drive offers the chance of a lifetime—for both you, the potential donor, and the recipient. As corny as it may sound, bone marrow can truly be called, “the gift that keeps on giving...” (Believe me, I’m living proof of this sentiment.)

Many people have expressed their questions on what exactly is involved for both the donor and the recipient. If you choose to take part in our drive this winter, the Red Cross will draw the amount of two tablespoons of blood from your arm, and from this, your personal H.L.A. type (Human Leukocyte Antigens) is determined. These four numbers are then processed by computer to see if your genetic tissue type is compatible with someone in need of marrow. If your H.L.A. type ever matches that of someone in need of marrow, then the opportunity is there to save a life.

If, indeed, you are “matched” and are willing to donate a small portion of your body’s marrow, then a simple procedure is done to remove the needed marrow. Contrary to what some might believe, it’s not like the doctor is removing a kidney or a lung, or cutting your bones open and letting the marrow flow forth; instead, under moderate or local anesthesia, the marrow that is needed can be drawn through thin needles inserted in the small of the back. The only discomfort for the donor might be a sore back for a few days following the procedure. The donor does not have to stay in the hospital and they are not in any risk of complications. Only two to five percent of the donor’s marrow is removed, and this amount is self-replaced by the body’s system over a few days.

The commitment we are asking you to make is not a tremendous time or financial one, but rather, a commitment from the heart. It is mind-boggling to perceive how phenomenally miraculous this procedure can be, and the rewarding feeling you receive will last a lifetime. This article may not address all the questions, thus, our committee will be going around to eating houses and dorm halls to talk to interested persons. Then, on Thursday, December 6, we will be sponsoring an informative (hopefully) “Study Break” to further educate.

Now, I’ll try to relate, in a nutshell, just how the process works by describing my own transplant experience. At the end of the previous article, I was recalling the events of past December, 1989. Once it was realized that my eight-year-old sister, Lee, was a perfect match, I underwent a four-week-long course of vigorous chemotherapy. During this month-long ordeal, I received numerous intravenous drugs and vincristine injections four days a week at the doctor’s office. I also had periodic bone marrow aspirations and spinal taps. (For someone so scared of needles, I got used to them real fast.) It is hard to rationally cope with the fact your body is being torn apart on the inside by powerful drugs, in an attempt to heal. I suffered excruciating muscle pain in my legs as a side effect of one of the medications. The pain completely consumed me to the point I would practically crawl from room to room trying to alleviate the discomfort. Another time, I fainted while taking a shower due to the cumulative effect of so much medicine. It was emotionally frustrating to see all the cheery holiday activity and not being able to fully enjoy it. However, don’t think for a second that I’d forgotten that my sister, Lee, had already given me the best Christmas gift ever.

In mid-January, my doctor tested my bone marrow to determine the effectiveness of all this chemotherapy. Thankfully, my marrow was back into a strong remission. Now, the waiting game was to begin. Over the next five weeks, my family nervously awaited an “opening” on the Bone Marrow Unit at the Univ. of Minnesota hospital where I was to be treated. During this waiting period, I envisioned myself as “Rocky” heading into the fight of his life. I prepared my body by running, jumping rope, lifting weights, doing push-ups, and eating well. I became totally engrossed in my efforts to steel myself for the ultimate challenge of a lifetime.

Finally, in early February, we got the call to come to Minneapolis for the preliminary work-up. I remember arriving to the snowy welcome of the North, unsure of what lay on the road ahead of me. For the first week of my stay, I was poked, pinched, prodded, examined, studied, and talked to more than I would have ever imagined. My team of doctors thoroughly performed physical after physical on me. Every inch of my inside and outside were tested for anything that might throw a wrench into the whole transplant process. My lungs, heart, kidneys, liver, marrow, spinal fluid, eyes, and various other organs were examined to be sure that all were in tip-top shape. I even had to see a dentist to have my mouth and teeth checked. Finally, after all of this fun, I received the “thumbs-up” to go forth with the transplant.

The next two months were to be the trial of a lifetime. First, they surgically inserted a flexible catheter from the right atrium of my heart through two rubber tubes that dangled out from an opening on my chest. This was an awkward sensation to say the least. This was how I received my drugs. I was placed in “protective isolation” where the transplant ordeal was to occur. I couldn’t leave this room, and all who entered had to thoroughly wash themselves free of germs. Over an eight-day period, my entire immune system was destroyed to rid my body of any unhealthy cells that might lurk in my marrow. This was done by submitting my body through twice-daily “zaps” of total body irradiation.For four days, once in the morning and once in the evening, I sat curled up on a bicycle seat in the midst of these ominous metal “guns.” The x-ray technicians would have to leave the room while I was radiated, because it was in such high amounts that, as they put it, “it could potentially kill a ‘normal’ person.” I thought to myself...how comforting! After radiation treatment, I had two, 24-hour cycles of intravenous chemo. Firmly convinced that all the “bad” marrow was now destroyed, I was ready for the transplant. On February 28, my “new birthday,” I received Lee’s precious marrow through an I.V. The actual transplant is fairly simple; I watched “Family Feud” and “Geraldo” while being transfused with new life. Three hours later—it was through. Now, the true fight began. We kept a daily watch on my “counts” to see the white blood cells reappear. At the same time, this is when all the horrible pain and infections appeared. I developed a case of horrendous mouth sores that covered my lips, mouth, tongue, and throat. The pain was 

Continued on Page 10

ROTC Finishes Fourth At Competition
By: TED RACHARRSON

On October 27 the Ranger Challenge team competed in the “Brigade Shootout” at Ft. Jackson which brought together all ROTC host schools in North and South Carolina. Davidson finished fourth out of twenty-three teams. Team captain Mike Peters and senior team member Derrick Willard both commented on the strength of the teams they faced at Ft. Jackson. Willard said, “It was by far the strongest competition ever. Davidson really held their own.” Peters added, “We really opened some eyes being one of the smallest ROTC departments represented and still doing so well.” Davidson Ranger Challenge did perform well, defeating formidable teams such as Clemson, Duke, Eastern Carolina, and South Carolina. The few teams they lost to were from unusually large programs like NCSU or from military schools like the Citadel.

Seven events comprise the Ranger Challenge competitions. They are the PT test, weapons assembly, orienteering, one-rope bridge, grenade throw, and a 10K Road Run. The Road Run, being the final event of the day, is perhaps the most crucial and the most painful. Each member of the nine-person team must cross the finish line together after traversing the 6.2-mile course carrying a 35 lb. ruck sack, an M-16 rifle, and wearing heavy combat boots. Peters commented on this year’s run saying, “Five teams could have won going into the Road March. Whoever won the march had an excellent chance of winning the overall competition.” The mass start of the race, which Peters said was more like “mass confusion,” didn’t phase this year’s team who ran the fastest Davidson time ever. The senior members of the 1990-91 Ranger Challenge team are Mike Peters, Derrick Willard, Bill Smith, and David Taylor. Juniors are John Howell, Chan Sheppard, Kevin Griggs, and Jim Leesch. Newcomers to the team are Bob Pascal, Chris Haige, Delmar Weekes, and Rafael Cande. Peters, who was impressed with the performances of the underclassmen at Ft. Jackson, said he expects Davidson Ranger Challenge to continue to improve in years to come.

Rally Continued from Page 1

Congressman to also put pressure on Bush. Religion professor David Kaylor and History professor Ralph Levering led discussions on the various dimensions of the United States’ relation to the Middle East while Colonel John Moncure of Davidson’s ROTC program addressed the military’s perspective of the Middle East crisis. Mary Anna Bode, a citizen of Davidson, spent a large portion of her life in the Middle East and was also available for questions concerning the cultural aspects of the entire Middle East area. Hornsby acknowledged that the rally was a great success, but he emphasized that the rally was not simply an anti-war rally. “It wasn’t really supposed to be an anti-war rally,” said Hornsby, “but we wanted people to realize exactly what was going on over there.” Balanced with the background guitar of Davidson’s John Morris and Kurt Perkins, the rally was designed to “educate people on the serious aspects of the situation.” Graver anticipated that due to the recent ultimatum placed on Hussein by the U.N. that the existence of future rallies is imminent. If the situation continues to deteriorate, Graver sees the congregating of people opposed to war as necessary to form a voice against Bush’s present policy. According to Graver, “there is a need.”

Oil War Continued from Page 1

The drums for war are very irresponsible. People who say it’s going to be a walk-over, a piece of cake, are irresponsible. It’s not going to be easy. From the military we are hearing the voice of sweet reason, saying wait, let’s not be so eager to go to war. It’s an interesting shift of roles.” Summers concedes that oil was a major reason President Bush sent US troops to the Gulf, “We must have access to energy resources and they must not fall into the hands of one person.” Army Lt. Col. John Moncure of Davidson ROTC said he was delighted with Summers's remarks. He agrees that fuel is playing a leading role in decision-making. “We’re there to provide a free flow of oil, but this is an opportunity to establish a world voice, saying that we will not tolerate aggression.” The lecture sparked contrasting views among students.

“It gave me a much better feeling about what’s going on,” said senior Mike Peters, who has trained with Davidson ROTC since a freshman. “I had been thinking that we (Summers and I) could sit it out for a long period of time.” Peter’s father, a civil affairs battalion commander who is serving as a liaison between the Saudis and the Americans, is in the Gulf right now, but may soon come home. Moncure reported that Davidson graduates Sherb Sentelle, John Black and Bob Davidson are already in the Gulf and Andy Tysinger may soon be en route there. Another student was upset by Summers’s talk. “He is taking the situation from the vantage point that war is an option," said sophomore Jonathon Harris, "and I’m too idealistic to give into that.” Summers shared his hopes that peace will come about. “We are still seeking a peaceful solution,” he said, “and with any luck we will bring one on.”