THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1990

Marlo Cobb | The Incredible Ease of Well-Being

Smoking Will Kill Your Butt

This is a harder article to write for me than one on alcohol or caffeine. You see, at the risk of sounding “holier-than-thou,” I’ve never smoked. Therefore, I don’t know what the attraction is to a lighted cigarette, and I can’t understand how hard smoking is to quit, although I’ve read and heard quite a bit about it. I know how important it is to quit, however, and lately it seems that more and more people around me are smoking, so -- what to do about it?

-- Smoking causes headaches, ulcers, gum disease and tooth decay, cancers of the mouth, esophagus, bladder and lungs, and poor circulation. It can lead to stroke, emphysema, bronchitis, and heart attack.
-- Smoking is the cause of death for 400,000 people a year in the United States.
-- Non-smokers are endangered by the smokers around them. On average, non-smoking spouses of smokers die four years younger than non-smoking spouses of non-smokers.
-- Children are more likely to smoke if their parents smoke.
-- There is no evidence that “low tar” cigarettes reduce the risk of smoking-induced cancer and heart disease. This is because being “low tar” doesn’t affect the carbon monoxide in a cigarette which deprives the blood of oxygen.

Why do you, personally, smoke? The U.S. Public Health Service identifies six categories of justification for smoking: stimulation, handling, relaxation, tension reduction, craving, and habit.

A stimulation smoker enjoys the physiological effects of nicotine. Smoking gives her a needed boost of energy, much like a morning cup of coffee might do. The actual smoking ritual is of importance for those who smoke for handling. They enjoy the feel of the cigarette between their fingers, lighting up and watching the smoke. Smoke can be both calming and stimulating. Relaxation smokers enjoy smoking when they are most relaxed. For them, it is simply a pleasant pastime.

On the other hand, a tension reduction smoker needs a cigarette when he is angry or upset. Cigarettes have a calming effect and are used as a psychological “crutch” to help deal with stress. For craving smokers, the physical addiction to cigarettes is very real, and they cannot bear to be without a cigarette for any length of time. Habit smokers may light up a cigarette without remembering the one they already have in their mouths, or they may not remember lighting up the one they are smoking. Smoking for them is an automatic response, something they do without even thinking about it.

You probably enjoy smoking for some combination of these reasons. If so, smoking will be harder for you to quit than if you have one simple reason for smoking. Here are some ideas for breaking the habit: Depending upon your reasons for smoking, try other substitutes for what smoking provides you. Watch out for situations which might be conducive to smoking. Substitute orange juice for coffee, since...

Joe Binns | Music Review

The Allman Seven Turns Epic

I wanted to write this review last week but last Monday I decided I would actually try to do all the reading assigned in my classes. Didn’t quite make it. I also wanted to write this review in the form of an elegy or an “In Memoriam” like piece but there just isn’t time thanks to Hawthorne, James, and Arnold. Talk about the problematic nature of formal education! (A 495 joke. Don’t cry if you didn’t get it.)

Let me begin by telling you about my late brother. As I boarded the big ol’ jet airliner that was to take me to Europe for the summer, the last thing I said to anyone in my family was to my brother. “Ward,” I said looking the innocent little trooper straight in his rapidly moistening eyes, “go see the Allmans when they hit Atlanta.” He didn’t and on my return, I dismembered him. Now I think he might have been scabies a harshly.

I’ve listened to the Allmans’ new album, Seven Turns, and it just ain’t good. The men who created the genre of Southern rock whipped up a big batch of legend-tarnishing cream with this album. I was all pumped to hear it after reading Mikal Gilmore’s article in the October 18th issue of Rolling Stone but was a little puzzled that he only commented minimally on their new material. Now I know why. There is not a song on the album half as good as the worst of their old stuff. Gilmore couldn’t rightly recount the spooky legend and the tear-wrenching history of one of the best five bands ever and then turn around and say that Seven Turns is a wrong turn.

And although I love this band as much as anyone, their new album reminds me of when the Greatest, Muhammad Ali, tried to make a comeback and got the grits knocked out of him. The saddest part is that I got the impression...Citrus juices reduce the craving for cigarettes. It has been proven that smokers who quit "cold turkey" are much more likely to quit for good than those who try to gradually wean themselves from smoking. Remember that withdrawal symptoms such as dry mouth and thirst, upset stomach, irritability, and mood swings are all positive signs that the body is cleaning itself out, and these side effects will gradually disappear within the first few weeks of nonsmoking. You may gain some weight through quitting smoking, but remember the health problems involved with smoking. A friend in aerobics last year who gave up smoking said she could definitely tell the difference after a week of not smoking. She felt a lot better in aerobics, and she also felt more in control of herself.

Continued on Bottom of Page

Take a Wrong Turn - from Gilmore’s article that they think they did a great job. Allman says, "It’s a good record; I’m proud of it." Dicky Betts says, "It would have been a shame to have put this band back together just to be an embarrassment." See Allman reminiscence above. I really don’t want to comment on any of the songs—it hurts too bad—but I’ll say this, hear the two songs getting radio time, "Good Clean Fun," and the title track. If you like them, have at it, but there are a few other Allmans’ albums you should get first—like all of them.

Short Review
Blues Traveler, 10/10/90. Pterodactyl Club in Charlotte. A really, really good show. You should have been there.

Smitty’s Boot O’ the Week: Winterland, CA. 12/31/78. Set 1.

Streetcar Review
Continued from Page 9

Hubbell, who often fights with her husband; a Mexican woman who sells flowers; and a nurse. These roles tend often towards stereotypical female and ethnic roles. The male roles are also "traditional"; Stanley is a workingman, a poker player, and a member of a bowling team. His buddies, Steve Hubbell, Harold Mitchell, and Pablo Gonzales are less aggressive, and "Mitch" is devoted to taking care of his dying mother. The other males in the play are a collector for the newspaper and a doctor. The actors performed well and the production was one of quality. I chose to review this play without previous knowledge of it, and found I did not like the play itself for its abuse of women by men and its overall stereotypes.

Performances this week are October 25 at 7:30 p.m., October 27 at 2:30 p.m., and October 26 and 27 at 8:00 p.m.

Photo by Tim Dancy
Dr. McMillen on her bicycle after doing a slide stop in the grass.

McMillen is McActive
By BENNET WATERS

If there is one word that describes Davidson history professor Sally McMillen, ACTIVE is definitely that word. But, McMillen doesn’t simply participate in a wide range of activities; she is truly enthusiastic about all of them. McMillen was born and raised in Laguna Beach, California. She attended Wellesley College and was married soon after graduation. After working as a librarian for a short time and raising two children, McMillen decided to pursue her Master’s degree in history. In 1985, McMillen received a PhD in history from Duke, after commuting from Charlotte three nights a week to complete the program. McMillen came to Davidson after a short time at Middle Tennessee State. "I always wanted something more, and I had always dreamed of a liberal arts school," she recalls. When Davidson advertised for a history position, McMillen returned to the Charlotte area, bringing a specialty in Southern History and Women’s History with her. Since then, McMillen has published one book (Motherhood in the Old South), and she has another work being published now. McMillen believes strongly in pushing her students, and she expects a lot from them. "I really believe in climbing mountains... always pushing harder," she says. McMillen’s students are asked to do more than they thought they could. Versatility is one of McMillen’s strong points, and she prides herself on her activities: "I love the outdoors... backpacking, bike trips, downhill skiing... anything in the out-of-doors." McMillen also enjoys going to movies, reading, listening to classical music, and cooking. (During exams, she brings homemade chocolate chip cookies to her students.) To describe herself as a breakfast cereal, McMillen chose Raisin Bran. "It’s fairly wholesome," she said, "but somewhat sweet... sort of energizing but certainly not boring." When pushed further, and asked to pick a part of a car that describes her, she quickly chose the radio. "It provides entertainment... it’s soothing, yet still stimulating... and it’s essential in a car." McMillen is extremely enthusiastic, and that enthusiasm carries over to everything she does. She demands a lot from those around her, but only because she demands so much from herself first.