10 Commentaries Wednesday, March 28, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Minus grades: Why change a system that works?
Tripp Helms

A forum on possible changes in Davidson’s grading system was held earlier this year. One faculty member who attended offered
the following in support of a change to the minus system: “The current system benefits the students.” This faculty member
was absolutely right, and his reason for changing the system is exactly the reason we ought to keep it just
like it is. The current system does benefit the students. I fail to see anything wrong with that.

The addition of minus grades will result in a decline in GPAs. Most faculty members who spoke in the forum
expressed a desire to be able to give low B students a B minus, which translates into 2.7 grade points,
rather than 3. To be fair, there are some who want to be able to give a grade better than
a C+ for work that does not quite deserve a B. But, there are more B’s than C’s at Davidson.
More B’s will probably turn into B minuses than C+’s into B minuses.

Some argue that such a system will merely legislate current practice which gives students a more accurate indication of their
performance during the semester. Many professors have their own number scales with pluses and minuses for grading throughout the semester,
which they then translate into Davidson’s grading system for official record. Such a breakdown does allow for more precise evaluation
of performance to encourage improvement, which is beneficial to students. However, the same end could be served by changes much
less sweeping with considerably fewer bad side effects than the addition of minus grades.

Another justification given for minus grades: some graduate schools already adjust the transcripts of Davidson applicants to their own systems
which include minus grades. So what? We could never accommodate the grading systems of all of the various graduate schools
to which Davidson students apply. These schools seem to have found a way to accommodate us. Davidson should never be
ashamed of “doing its own thing,” especially if there are good reasons for it. And there are good reasons for
the current system.

No one has ever characterized Davidson as a “low pressure, laid back” environment. Most students here are overachievers. We have
many type-A, workaholic students. Grades are almost a life-or-death matter for too many people. Why are we reinforcing such a
mentality and contributing new anxiety-producing factors to an already stressful environment? A point’s difference on a test grade has never
meant so much as it will under the new system.

Davidson would benefit from social changes to accommodate all students
Charles Brooks

I am a freshman here at Davidson, and I have observed many things during my first year as a student.
After nearly a year, I would like to say that I have no qualms with the education, and I feel
that most of the professors are great teachers. However, the social atmosphere does not accommodate some students, such as myself.
Many parts of the administration along with most members of the Board of Trustees, seem unconcerned with this problem, while
other students, who haven’t been exposed to different cultures, are condemning proposed changes that would benefit the school environment.

A few months ago, some upperclassmen began trying to establish a historically black fraternity. In turn, certain students on the
campus began to say and write things suggesting that this was a “bad idea.” On the contrary, this move would
diversify a dull, monocultural atmosphere. People, if I or any other minority student wanted to be segregated, then why would
we be here at a school that is 95 percent white? If you look around the campus, you would notice
that the population is already segregated. As far as racial integration, some blacks are “forced off” the campus because of
the lack of cultural diversity. We, as the minority, are surrounded by a culture that many of us don’t wish
to participate in. During the Civil Rights movement, I don’t recall hearing African-American leaders saying “let's be like white people.”

Many students have the misconception that ALL fraternities are the same. Are all the fraternities on Patterson Court the same?
Of course not. People, in the future, recommend that you ask others about things you know virtually nothing about. After
all, if you would take the time to listen and learn before speaking, then the world will not know how
ignorant you are.Point means this much, one would hope it could always be judiciously applied. It cannot be. There is
no such thing as objective testing. Even a multiple-choice test has a human origin and must be made using arbitrary
criteria. A fair evaluation system needs to strike a delicate balance between precision and allowance for human error. Minus grades
err on the side of precision and offset the balance. Any change in a system that works as well as
Davidson’s no-minus grading scale should be based on compelling reasons—reasons that not only justify the need for improvement but also
the degree of change to effect that improvement. The addition of minus grades is overkill. There may be weaknesses in
the current system that need to be addressed. They are not serious enough to bring about a system with so
many negative side effects. Students should encourage the faculty to reconsider this move. The faculty should rethink its position and
come up with more effective ways of addressing their concerns about the current system. Davidson has a unique system that
reflects a very positive grading mentality. We should not only hang on to it, but we should be proud of
it.

Tripp Helms is a senior religion major from Matthews, N.C.

As for the administration, I’ve also heard about the procrastination of minority concerns, such as this fraternity issue. During my
brief stay here, I’ve yet to see a commitment by the administration towards minority concerns and minority enrollment. As for
the question, “what can we do,” I say you have the power to do anything you make a commitment to.
Think of how the minority enrollment and retention rate would increase because of your support to them and their culture.
I hope that in the future the administration will support minority action such as the fraternity initiative, and improve the
Davidson College life to suit everyone. Also, I hope the students, as a whole, will look at things with an
open mind. I’m sure that some are shocked by what I have written, but the truth must be told. If
there are any questions, please let me know.

Charles Brooks is a freshman from Columbia, S.C.

Rosa at Davidson: “There aren't freaks just way out in California”

Lucia Kendall

Rosa blends in well with other Davidson students. She is a little shy, but bright and funny. She is pretty
and petite. She does well in her classes. She’d had a few boyfriends in the past, but last summer was
the first time she really fell in love. There is a problem, though, because the person she fell in love
with (and who fell in love with her) is a woman. Their love was not just a sexual urge, as
most of her friends assumed; it was a relationship, much like the ones her friends had with their boyfriends: she
and Catherine went out for pizza together, saw plays, laughed, argued about politics, took long walks, enjoyed spending time together.
But there was more than close friendship; there was, as well, physical attraction and romantic love. She had struggled for
several years with the idea that she might be a lesbian, but she hadn’t known for sure until she went
to Massachusetts and met Catherine. Her friends had always spoken of homosexuality as something dirty and unnatural, and yet her
love for Catherine was genuine and caring.

When Rosa returned to Davidson in the fall, she searched for someone understanding enough to confide in. Rosa’s situation is
disconcerting for me personally because, at various stages in my life, I have believed parts of all the arguments I
now hear my friends and classmates making against homosexuality. Now I believe that homosexuals should be treated as people with
the same dignity as heterosexuals. If one of my friends came out of the closet, however, I admit that it
would make me feel at least uncomfortable, because my prejudices still limit my understanding and compassion. The estimates that almost
ten percent of the population is homosexual mean that there are many Davidson students struggling with an issue whose significance
the rest of us too frequently ignore. Rosa’s experience of listening to a group of friends discussing homosexuality is an
example of how Davidson students often react. One friend was adamant about homosexuality being a moral outrage, and, when asked
for reasons, could only sputter a few inarticulate reactions, and conclude in exasperation, “It’s just gross... I don’t know... doesn’t
it just seem gross to you?” It didn’t.

See ROSA, page 12
