Thursday, February 22, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

15

Wildcats hit the track and the record books again;
Freshmen bow to experience

By JAY CLUGSTON

The men’s and women’s track and field teams ended their indoor season with “strong” performances at Saturday’s Lynchburg College (Va)
relays, according to coach Gary Andrew. Two indoor school records were broken despite a slow 12 lap per mile track
and weaker competition than the Cats’ previous two meets at Virginia Tech.

The women’s team defeated Lynchburg College and Bridgewater College for the team title. The men, lacking in numbers, dominated the
distance relays but finished fifth of five teams.

Kathy Beach, named most valuable female performer, won the 880 yd. (2:31.4), the two-mile (12:16.2), and anchored the winning 4
x 880 yd. relay (11:25.7). The weaker competition allowed Beach, who had missed practice three days the previous week due
to sickness, to run the two mile as a training run, going out the first mile in 6:31 and running
the final mile in 5:45.

Susan Swift broke the indoor shot-put record with a put of 33 ft. 8 in. She also improved her 300
yd. (45.1) and 60 yd. hurdles (9.7) times. Swift is “hungry” and should break the outdoor shot-put record during the
upcoming outdoor season, according to sprint and field event coach, Beth Manson.

Other strong female performances were by Heather Tarpley running two of Davidson’s fastest races in history—60 yd. hurdles (9.4) and
300 yd. (41.9), Jennifer Brown 880 yd. (2:34.2), and Sarah Sadowski two-mile (13:34.5). All three of those women combined with
Kathy Beach to form the already mentioned winning 4 x 880 yd. relay team.

The highlight for the men’s team was the defeat of the freshman 4 x 1 mile relay team (Ian Stewart,
David Kerns, Ben Wiley, and Peter Hurtado) by the upperclass team of Chris Otrok, David Murray, Ted Richardson, and Jay
Clugston.

The freshmen, who jumped out to a surprisingly early lead, were put in their place by sophomore Richardson’s third leg,
which gave the upperclassmen a 13-second lead. Freshman Peter Hurtado’s 4:40 fourth leg could only close the gap to 10
seconds and the upperclassmen won 19:09 to 19:19. Both of those times broke the existing school record and the teams
placed first and second.

The men also entered two teams in the distance medley relay (800-440-1370-mile), which placed first and third. The first place
team (11:25.1) was aided by excellent legs. They ran strong 880 yards in the 4 x 880 relay to place
the Wildcats second, improved their shot put to (32’6"), and sophomore transfers Lewis Guedry (300 yards-38.7) and Jeff Fraley (60
yards-7.2; 300 yards-38.7) made their collegiate debut. Freshman Dan Franks made his mark at 37.9-300 yards.

The Wildcats begin their outdoor track season during spring break with meets at UNC-Wilmington and the University of Miami.

On the sports front

By BRUCE BALESTIER

By MAY MARTIN

The spotlight was on women’s doubles this weekend as Davidson hosted the first annual Wildcat Women’s Doubles Classic. Furman, Virginia
Tech, and James Madison each brought four doubles teams, and each team was guaranteed six matches in the round robin
tournament. James Madison won 17 matches, followed closely by Furman and Virginia Tech who each won 14. Davidson won four
matches.

At the number one position for Davidson were freshman Leslie Goff and sophomore Nell Player. Player was injured on the
last day and was replaced by freshman Debbie DeCou. Number three was freshman Julie Brewer and junior Mary Beth Ruth,
and number four was Carr and junior Tina Laidlaw.

Sophomore Kristine Booker and freshman May Martin played as the fifth team. Brewer and Ruth were the most consistent and
successful team, according to Coach Caroline Brown-Price. They won two matches against Furman and Virginia Tech. “The matches were very
competitive, and we were up against some tough teams. Our biggest accomplishment was not letting ourselves be beaten before we
even stepped onto the court,” Brewer said.

“After two and a half days of doubles, I can see a huge improvement. The weekend gave our team a
chance to get out and play some outstanding teams, and to try out what they've been practicing,” Coach Brown-Price said.

The weekend ended with all of the teams expressing positive feelings, and the tournament will likely become an annual event.

Seniors!
Be sure to turn in your list of activities for the past four years for Quips and Cranks.
Turn lists in by this Sunday to the Q&C office in the Union or to the box in the Dean
of Students office.
(Clip and save this reminder)
