THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

Campus Living

Professor Messer is the newest addition to the Psychology Department.
Photo By Ted Richardson

Messer Enjoys Small Classes at Davidson
By LAURA BLAIR

One of the new faces seen around campus this fall is that of Dr. Wayne Messer, the new psychology professor.
Messer received his doctorate in Cognitive Psychology from the University of Florida in Gainesville this past August, and he has
come to Davidson as a visiting professor for the year. While earning his degree, Messer taught undergraduate classes at the
University of Florida in Introductory and Cognitive psychology.

Although Messer has only been in Davidson for a short time, he has enjoyed several benefits of the Davidson community.
In addition to the fact that there has been no mass murderer on the loose in Davidson (in contrast to
the situation in his hometown of Gainesville, Florida), Messer has enjoyed the congenial attitude of the area. Another aspect of
Davidson life he enjoys is the small classes. The undergraduate classes he taught at Florida numbered from 55 to 125
students.

Messer did his undergraduate work at the University of New Hampshire, while working at several different jobs in the areas
of carpentry and landscaping. After taking a variety of liberal arts courses, Messer encountered an inspirational teacher in an introductory
course in psychology. Messer found that he enjoyed the diversity of studies which he was allowed within the realm of
psychology. Although he finds the area of clinical psychology fascinating, Messer feels he will remain on the academic side of
psychology rather than taking up a practice of his own.

“I enjoy teaching, studying, and learning. It is a way I can indulge my own selfish interests by studying as
much as I can and then being able to combine that with sharing my knowledge with others.”

Photo Courtesy of Thomas Helland
Seniors Alan Rosselot (far left) and Thomas Helland (left) "sinking pints" at a local English Pub.

Reading Jane Austen and Sinking Pints Part of Cambridge Experience
By LIZ YAREMA

Imagine hearing a lecture on Wordsworth and then hiking in the Lake District which inspired him; reading about Georgian architecture
then touring through some of the best examples of it; studying Byron at the same university in which he himself
studied as a student. The group of Davidson students who spent six weeks this summer participating in the College’s Cambridge
program do not need to imagine such experiences, they lived them.

The Cambridge program not only gave students an opportunity to study and travel abroad during the summer, it also gave
the students a chance to earn class credits. In a series of lectures and readings, the students were guided by
Associate Professor of English Gail Gibson. Gibson considers the program’s three-dimensionality to be one of its strongest points. Through class
work, reading lists, side trips, and three-day weekend allowances, she felt the participants were “literally made to see” eighteenth and
nineteenth-century England.

The students gave high marks for her knowledge concerning the Cambridge subject matter. “She may be a medievalist,” Senior Martha
Spoor explained, “but she also knew everything about the periods we were studying.” Classmate Darry Strickland agreed, commenting that Gibson’s
awareness of the Cambridge countryside contributed greatly to the experience. “She had all sorts of neat ideas about where to
go and what to see.”"I just want to teach well and continue to learn about psychology,” said Messer. While pursuing
his degrees, Messer took several years off. As many Davidson students are now struggling with the decision of going to
graduate school and are taking the various exams required for admittance, Messer advises them to take time off between undergraduate
and graduate school if a student is unsure about his or her career decision. On the other hand, he also
feels that this “time off” can be wasted. He recommends either going abroad or doing an internship to help broaden
a student’s knowledge before plunging into graduate school.

Tutorials (small group sessions which are the cornerstone of British education), the program focused on “The Age of Revolution and
Romanticism in English History and Literature, 1760-1832”. This year’s resident director, or “nanny” as she jokingly calls it, remembered “adding
to the stuff we'd already learned.” The way everyone spent their free time was as varied as the students themselves.
With London not far away, many chose to frequent the museums, galleries, theaters, and stores. While some made pilgrimages to
all the history-major havens and English-major shrines they could find, others traveled the tourist trails: Oxford, Ambleside, Edinburgh, Bath, Rye...
their travel itineraries go on and on right out of some Anglophile’s daydream. Whatever they chose to do, be it
attend the Queen Mum’s ninetieth birthday party celebration or assimilate into the native culture by “tossing darts and sinking pints”
down at the local pub, all of the students broadened their “Davidson Experience” in ways they’ll always remember. All interviewed
agreed that the hands-on experience afforded by the program made even the English food and record-breaking heat worthwhile.

On the program evaluation form, one student wrote: “One of the best experiences...was hearing the lecture on Bath, reading a
couple of Jane Austen novels, then going to Bath for the weekend. You don’t get opportunities like that at Davidson.”

Joe Binns | Music Review

Ritual and the Canine Frenzy
Jane’s Addiction
Ritual de lo Habitual
Warner Bros.

I hope I didn’t bring you down with the last review. The Pixies' Bossanova is getting a little better with
each listen. But those listens are growing few and far between due to the new Jane’s disk totally hogging the
CD tray. The band’s third album Ritual de lo Habitual is like Bossanova in that it follows the band's second
and best work, Nothing's Shocking, an absolute scorcher, full of true, hard, alternative skate rock, that is as shocking as
tongue-testing your car battery. And, like Bossanova, Ritual does not live up to its predecessor. It is not as much
of a letdown though. Ritual opens with a very cheesy introduction en Español, “Stop!” It is in line with the
cheesy jacket message addressed “To the Mosquitoes.” “No One’s Leaving” sets the tone of the disc and the title is
truthful in that it’s tough to leave the lounge chair until one has heard all nine tracks. It also introduces
Perry Farrell’s (read Peripheral’s) theme for the disc: inter-racial sex/relationships. It is not as constant or developed as the “nothing’s
shocking” theme and the disc loses points for this. The musical and creative zenith is “Been Caught Stealing.” Play this
funk in a crowded apartment and the place...

See JANE on Page 9
