16. THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

‘THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW’

A Diplomat's Viewpoint On The Persian Gulf Crisis

By Jay J. Chaudhuri

This week's featured guest for The Davidsonian's new "Back Page Interview" is Ambassador Jack R. Perry. Ambassador Perry currently directs the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies and is a retired Foreign Service Officer who holds a doctorate from Columbia University. On January 9, Ambassador Perry spoke with The Davidsonian on the Persian Gulf crisis.

Q. Reading The New York Times today, the headline reads “Bush Asks Congress to Back Use of Force if Iraq Defies Deadline on Kuwait Pullout.” Does war appear inevitable, less than one week from the January 15 deadline?

A. No, it isn’t inevitable. I think the next period will be busy diplomatically and a lot of things are possible. Right now, however, it doesn’t look promising.

Q. Would applied economic pressure and sanctions work on Iraq?

A. I think sanctions can work if given enough time, but I’m not sure we can hold a coalition together and keep the Americans behind it for sanctions to work.

Q. Representative Les Aspin of Wisconsin said to Congress yesterday that the U.S. has a good chance of scoring a rapid victory over Iraqi forces. Are his estimates correct?

A. First of all, I am not a military expert, but two things have to be said here. The first thing is that an attack will come in stages. I think the strategy for Bush is to frighten Saddam Hussein. If the 15th comes and goes and no agreement is arrived at, it seems Bush would take certain limited military action. We should regard this as more symbolic attack. With a military attack people envision an all-out war, but we will see it in stages. If this happens more negotiations will happen and Saddam Hussein will be convinced. The second thing: if an all-out serious land war occurs that could conceivably be faster than some people believe.

Q. Historically the executive branch and State Department have appeared to run the foreign policy of this country. Yet now Congress states that it has the ability to declare war. In your opinion who has the ability to declare war?

A. There are no black and white answers to the Constitutional questions. We’ve been in so many wars, usually without declaring war. The fundamental factor in a democracy is that people must approve ultimately the acts of the leader, but they also elect our leaders without referendum.

Q. What are the options left for President Bush now that the Baker-Aziz talks failed?

A. There is certainly not the possibility of all-out war or nothing. This is an important point to make as of 1 a.m. January 16. War is politics. There are still negotiations even if it looks like all guns. I think he exercised an option by asking the Secretary General to do shuttle diplomacy between Baghdad and Washington. I don’t think the President would attack if active negotiations are happening. That’s one promising prospect. The military option would demonstrate our seriousness by a symbolic attack. Or we could go in seriously by cutting Kuwait from Iraq and sending tanks on a ground strike.

Q. Your opinion on linking Iraq’s withdrawal with the Palestinian issue?

A. This is a point that worries me a great deal. I like the French position. I understand our position, but we need to make a commitment to get something done on the Palestine issue. A conference makes sense and Cyrus Vance and the Soviets favored this conference in the 1970s under Carter. Vance and Gromyko publicly said they were for this, but the Israelis backed away from it. I understand linkage rewards Saddam Hussein, but, at the same time, in the long run we have to do something ultimately.

The Davidsonian

Welcomes Everyone Back to School