THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991 - Campus Living

Three Prepare For Trip To Africa
By Meredith Boone

While most Davidsonians have already settled into the daily grind of classes, parties, and occasional study sessions, some students are
still at home, trying to decide just what one packs when going off to Africa. Three Davidson juniors, Lara Teal,
Heather Tarpley, and John Rowe, have chosen to spend the fall semester in a unique study abroad program. The Wildlife
Biology and Range Management program in Kenya, offered by the School for Field Studies, allows ordinarily mild-mannered college students to
apply their textbook knowledge to a practical research situation in an exotic setting.

The program is set up on a research facility located on the only privately owned game ranch in Kenya. The
research is done with a goal in mind, and the students contribute to the overall body of knowledge as they
learn. While students take classes six days a week, they also participate in small, individual research groups which study one
particular element of the overall project. The purpose of the game ranch is to discover how to maximize Kenya’s natural
food resources without destroying the wildlife ecosystem. So, although the students do get away for a few safaris, they do
not study typical lions, tigers, or bears. The students/researchers spend much of their time studying the effects of non-predators such
as giraffe, gazelle, and zebra on cattle.

Interestingly, when cattle are housed with natural wildlife, the cattle inflict far less damage on the land than they ordinarily
would. The long-term goal of the game ranch and research center is to discover the best proportions of cattle to
wildlife so that these proportions may be maintained throughout the nation and Kenyans will be able to use these findings
to their advantage. To finance the research center, the owners “crop” 30 of the wild animals per week in the
on-site slaughterhouse and sell the meat to a tourist restaurant in Nairobi. Some of the research determines how many animals
may be cropped and what effects this cropping has on the social structures of various species.

This year, the program director withdrew on short notice, and the program was in jeopardy as the administrators struggled to
find a replacement. When a South African professor was found, there was much concern that, since Kenya has only very
recently recognized the South African government, the prospective director may not have been able to get a visa. Fortunately, because
of South Africa’s recent reforms, the Kenyan government was willing to grant the visa, thus saving the program.

When asked to describe her experience in Kenya last fall, senior LeAnn Simmons called it “very interesting” but “rigorous.” In
addition to living without electricity in thatched huts, the students do all the cooking themselves. However, in spite of this
as well as the countless pre-trip medical visits and difficulties in packing, these three students are eager to begin their
African adventure: an experience that they expect to be incredibly rewarding.

Love Of Learning Program Inspires Students And Teachers
By Prem Manjooran

The Love of Learning program, the brainchild of one of the truly remarkable individuals here at Davidson, Brenda Tapia, has
evolved beyond her wildest hopes. Five years after the pilot class first came to Davidson, the program has become not
merely a fixture, but it has emerged as a genuine effort to coalesce the facilities our campus has to offer
with the creative talents and output of some of Charlotte-Mecklenburg’s brightest and best.

The students that attend the program during the month of July are highly motivated individuals, talented and gifted, and more
importantly, aware of their relative strengths and weaknesses. They are quite determined to translate that immense latent potential into tangibly
appreciable terms. It is indeed a revelation to compare the students that attend some of the other programs that run
simultaneously with the Love of Learning students. These students are struggling to combat the handicaps of their background and are
successfully elevating themselves above the rut that threatens the average high school student in the state system.

A lot of the program’s success stems from the rigorous and structured format that permeates the program. Every moment of
the day is carefully budgeted and filled with some sort of activity. Breakfast is at 7 am; so the day
starts really early -- try 6:15 for starters! Classes commence at 8 am and run through noon, broken up only
by a mandatory library study hour at 10 am. A lunch/nap break is assigned from noon until 2 pm, after
which the students split into two groups. One group goes to Baker for a two-hour session of physical activity. The
second group goes to class, and at 4 pm, the groups switch. After dinner at 6 pm, they all head
back to class at 7 pm. Study Hall and a free hour are followed by lights out at 11:30 pm.

The program’s primary focus is unabashedly academic and there areAbsolutely no excuses are offered for the workloads imposed. The morning
session is devoted to Math and English, while the afternoon classes are in the sciences. The program, designed to develop
and focus the students’ competitive edges in terms of the forthcoming academic year, also provides them with the individual attention
and tutoring which they do not have access to during the school year. The net result is a more aware
and qualified classroom candidate, and a student that can effectively compete on merit alone for those precious few seats in
demanding and competitive colleges in the country.

Just as the program makes a commitment to the students in terms of helping them be “the best they possibly
can,” the students, in turn, make a commitment to the program to return each summer until they graduate from high
school, and to give the program their best efforts and talents so that their potential might be tapped and channeled
along more effective and competitive lines. There is no more appropriate testimony to the success of the program than the
newfound willingness of several private sponsors to provide the financial assistance the program so sorely needs.

On a personal level, as a part of a team of 18 Counselor-Mentors, the month I spent with the Love
of Learning program this summer ranks very high among my more productive and rewarding experiences here at Davidson. I was
quite ashamed of the opportunities that some of my friends and I have squandered over the last three years at
school, while there are these incredible kids, hoping for an opportunity to go to a school like Davidson, and knowing
that for financial or other reasons, it will be a hard struggle. And the loss, I think, is ours.

Liz says...
This is dedicated to Ed Breman, for all his advice.

How you can tell if you’re an alcoholic:
1. The thought of going to a party sober makes you cringe.
2. Other people remember more about your nights than you do.
3. You consistently wake up in random spots around campus.
4. You consistently wake up with random people around campus.
5. You do or say things totally out of character when you're sober.
6. Friends start to guide you to the alternative beverage table.
7. You develop the tolerance of someone twice your size.
8. You attend classes drunk.
9. Hangovers start to last a few days.

By Leigh McKeever
Did you find drop/add particularly painful this time around? If so, you weren’t alone. The Registrar’s office postponed drop/add until
Monday at 1:30 due to a computer hardware malfunction. When Sue Ross relayed this message on Friday to a waiting
line of students, the moaning began:

“Drop/add has been an absolutely miserable experience.” - Curtis Burns
“Well, I’ve been here four days so it’s been pretty much a nightmare.” - Chad Blackwelder
“I think it is such a drawn-out process and that there is no excuse to have to stand in line
for hours or days.... As for this computer breakdown, that really sucks.” - Jennifer Williams
“I am the only person in my class so I don’t know why I didn’t get it.” - Billy Mills
“This is amusing.” - Marie Huntington
“Drop/add is a holistic experience. It can only be appreciated if you’re a senior and you don’t get finite math....
it must be a sign from God.” - Jeff Fraley
“A nice long AGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHHHAHM?” - Dan Nechemias
“There’s got to be a better way.” - Carmen Dockery
“I’ve been here every day this week.” - Josh Neubaer
“Well, I’ve stood in line three days. I got there 5:30 Monday and finally got inside, but can I drop
two classes and add one? NO.” - Lia Franks
“Quote Quote Quote, Quote Quote Quote!” - David Scott
“All I’m going to say is this is my seventh semester and I’ve been to drop/add next to the last
day every time. It’s a Who’s Who of Pissed Off People.” - Peter Wagner
“It’s a time to spend quality time with other people.” - Buck Reese

And lastly, a word from the Registrar herself, “Drop/add.... welcome to Hardware Hell.” - Sue Ross
