MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

Campus Living

Escort Service Contributes To Campus Safety And Security

By Laura Blair

As many of you may have noticed while walking to the bathroom, or any other public place on campus, Davidson’s Public Safety Department offers an escort service so students “don’t walk alone.” Since the beginning of the year, the service has averaged 240 rides a month for female students. Assistant Director of Public Safety Rick Moore could only recall one time that a male desired the service. However, he was in the company of two other females.

This is the first school year the escort service has been frequently utilized. Although the service has been offered in the past, 1990 was the first year it was publicized. Moore explained that the basic purpose of the program is to offer females an escort by a Public Safety officer, so they will not be at risk of being attacked while walking alone at night. Both Moore and Director of Public Safety Ray Thrower stressed that the service was designed with females in mind.

To research this article, I engaged an escort for a ride from the computer center to my dorm. The ride went off without a hitch. (However, the officer was not thrilled to discover he was on Candid Camera.) At the time of my call, the officer on duty, Officer Davis, was on another escort call, yet it took less than five minutes for him to arrive. The conditions inside the Cushman are certainly not spacious by any means, but I can honestly say that it was warmer and safer than walking by myself. (My cameraman, Chris Lee, was waiting for us at the dorm.)

As Matt Wanzenberg mentioned in last week’s paper, one “bummer” of living off-campus is the temptation for off-campus students to drive home after drinking at Patterson Court parties. Moore and Thrower both said taking drunk students to off-campus housing is not part of the escort policy. They felt the responsibility should rest in the hands of the student and the party’s sober monitor. On the other hand, if you find yourself drunkenly wandering around campus, Public Safety will find a way for you to get home. As Officer Davis said, “I wouldn’t take a drunk student to Bacon and Eggs, but if I can, I will take them home.”

So all you females, the next time you are getting ready to leave alone, and the night looks dark and scary, call your fearless escort.

Movie Review

Edward Scissorhands Fails To Grasp Fairy-Tale Imagery

By Johnathon Harris

Edward Scissorhands
Directed by Timothy Burton
Paramount Pictures

The movie takes place in a suburban setting, full of brightly colored square houses, light posts, and giant hedges. On the edge of this paradise looms something horrifying, a shadowed hill, an ancient castle atop a shadowed hill. “Grandma, why does it snow?,” quips a young grandchild lying in her bed neath layers of blanketry. “Well, I suppose it all started with scissors,” opines the grandmother, and the story begins. Suddenly we are transported back through the grandmother’s remembrances to a square of suburbia where the story spins out.

These first few scenes are meant to give the movie a fairy-tale feel, a fantastic foo la la, an aura of things past—but the movie comes up short on its promise, and by the end, there has been so much crude modernity ranging from a middle-aged woman’s attempt to have sex with the most magical character in the movie to actual violence, that any fairy-tale pretense is lost.

Edward is the name of an unfortunate experiment, created to look, act, and feel like a man. The whole reason for calling Edward Edward Scissorhands is the fault of the man who created him. The final features needed to make Edward a complete replica of a man were human hands, for which the kindly scientist had substituted two pairs of shiny scissors until actual hands could be attached. Unfortunately for Edward, the scientist died leaving only the consolation of hedge sculpting and ice carving for his luckless experiment.

Edward’s isolated life changes forever when the Avon lady comes to the castle soliciting eye makeup and ends up gaining a new family member. The best scene of the movie comes after Edward has been in the neighborhood a while, and has turned every hedge into a Disney playtime pal, every dog into a mincing muffy mutt, and every head of hair into intention within. This sequence is utterly fantastic and makes the movie worth seeing, but from here on the message is unclear. Edward is driven up into his castle on the hill where he gives into frustration and uses those scissorhands for what people always thought he was using them for anyway: violence.

The end of the movie attempts to bring happiness back to the filmic experience with a synthesized score. Go see this movie for a dollar, it has fun moments and ideas, but the blank empathy we feel for Edward and real-life social problems depicted is worthless.town into a tickertape bouffant parade. The movie’s point and the three-dollar climax loom close. Edward dives in front of a truck to save a boy and because he is so excited, he clicks his scissors open and shut over the boy's body trying to see if he is all right. He accidentally cuts the boy and people start to mob around. Eventually, Edward is forced to run, his heroic action misunderstood. This is the movie’s strongest moment, when the viewer empathizes with Edward’s inability to communicate his intentions to others who can see only his abnormality. This idea is easily applicable to ourselves, trapped in situations where others judge us without the benefit of knowing the replay of choral melodies and a return to the grandmother and her love to dance in the snow. But, no number of synthesizers can overturn the fact that Edward is now separated from love and unable to regain it—left high in a castle to cut ice instead. Separation is not a solution to communication problems. At least I could say it’s a beautiful story anyway except that it’s impossible given the number of non-beautiful incidents that occur. It could have been an almost mythical story, but director Timothy Burton throws in so many discrepantly modern touches and violence that the movie becomes a vacuous feel-good gourd. Go see this movie for a dollar, it has fun moments and ideas, but the blank empathy we feel for Edward and real-life social problems depicted is worthless.

Photo By Chris Lee
Reporter Laura Blair steps into a comfortable Cushman for a safe ride home. And for all of you off-campus-ers, don’t drive drunk. Ray Thrower said if they catch you, you will be arrested, which in my opinion would make having your car towed look like a day in the park. Do the best you can to find your own ride, but when all else fails, call an escort.

To B-n-E
By David Smyth

First of all, let me promise you that re-acclimating yourself to American life is not the culture shock you might imagine it to be, especially if you’ve been in London for a semester. Let’s face it, I haven’t been rummaging around in South American jungles for four months. The Americans’ cultural heritage is one that the British had no small part in starting, so things in a general sense really aren’t that different. There are little things, though, that I missed while in London. Diners. A completely alien concept to your average Londoner. One doesn’t know how much one misses bacon and eggs until one can’t even find a Huddle House on any of the British Isles. It just doesn’t occur to the British that they should want to eat breakfast at 3 a.m. They think ham is called bacon, anyway, but they wind up standing in line (or “queuing”) for pretty much everything. McDonald’s is the definite exception to this. London’s McDonald’s restaurants are way fast; never have to queue in those.

Some things the British do are definitely better than our feeble efforts. TV Ads. British advertisements (despite their mispronunciation of the word) surpass their American counterparts. Since I’ve gotten back I’ve noticed that American ads try to make me feel good about stuff like wallpaper and car insurance. British ads generally did a good job of making me laugh out loud with offbeat humor, a much better alternative to sighing wistfully about stuff like wallpaper and car insurance. Tea is better than coffee. God knows how the British discovered this before us, but they are certainly lightyears ahead of us in the after-dinner drink race. Before going over there I had visions of the whole city shutting down at about 4 p.m. to drink tea and toast the Queen. It’s not quite that fanatical, but tea is a part of the national consciousness. As Dana Carvey might say, “Tea...good; coffee...bad, bad.”

Decent sports sections. I don’t care how much you love cricket, it is a damn boring game to watch and even worse to read about. Rugby runs along the same lines, although it is definitely an exciting sport. Still, it’s no fun to read about star rugby players when you don’t know who they are. Sometimes I just like to turn my brain off and read about basketball and stuff. Not being in line all the time. England just isn’t the most efficient place in the world. Things run slower in general over there. Nobody seems to mind too much.

All things considered, I’m glad to be back after a semester but I’m also really glad I decided to go.