4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Davidson ROTC Awards Cadets at Fall Ceremony

By Ted Richardson

This summer, seventeen ROTC cadets from Davidson and surrounding schools enjoyed an all-expenses-paid vacation to Ft. Lewis, Washington to attend
the first-ever nationally organized Advanced Camp. Plans to coalesce the four ROTC regions into a single training exercise began early
this year when progress for camp on the East Coast came to a standstill with the deployment of the 82nd
Airborne Division to Saudi Arabia. Cadets discovered late in the Spring that, rather than rolling down the highway to sultry
Ft. Bragg, N.C., they would be skimming the clouds westward to a more forgiving climate. Another blessing to cadets was
the decision to shorten camp from six weeks to five weeks, one of the countless adjustments necessary to circulate over
five thousand cadets through a single point.

Even with these favorable changes, Advanced Camp posed a tremendous mental and physical challenge. Sleep deprivation coupled with a constantly
changing and demanding environment tested the potential of these future Army leaders. All seventeen of the Senior ROTC cadets at
Davidson have returned from camp with valuable experience and with an obligation to share their experience with younger cadets who
now face the challenge of camp themselves.

In addition to Advanced Camp, eight of the Seniors attended Cadet Leadership Training (CTLT), a three-week exercise which allows cadets
to lead a platoon alongside a regular army officer. Five of these eight were fortunate enough to train in overseas
units. Kevin Griggs, Sydney Smith, Mac Grimes, and Bill Flora traveled to Germany for their training while this year’s Battalion
Commander, John Howell, landed a position in Vicenza, Italy. Training closer to home were John Keefe at Ft. Drum, N.Y.,
Warner Wells at Ft. Devens, MA, and Amy Zielke at Ft. Bragg, N.C.

A number of “free falls” recorded at Ft. Benning’s Airborne School in Georgia rounded out an exciting summer for Davidson
ROTC. Jennifer Brown, Bill Flora, John Keefe, Chris Henderson, Will Pender, Grady Sessoms, Mark Swofford, Chris Hage, and Bill Pomeroy
were all graduates of Airborne School.

Special mention goes to current sophomore Chris Hage who attended both Airborne School and Sapper School during his first year
in ROTC.

* * *

Davidson ROTC held its Fall awards ceremony on Thursday, September 26. Captain Tom Norwood, who commanded missions as an Airforce
pilot in “Desert Storm,” spoke to cadets about his experiences in the war effort and his own response to the
war in light of his Davidson education. Mr. Norwood’s son, Tom (class of ’95), and daughter, Amy (class of ’93),
both attend Davidson.

Davidson cadets received awards for rifle marksmanship, academic excellence, physical fitness, military proficiency, Advanced Camp completion, land navigation, and scholarship
awards. The college honored nine ROTC scholarships to rising freshmen this year, far exceeding the number of scholarships awarded in
previous years. These freshmen include: Ben Balsley, Joseph Beach, Giorgio Hiatt, Pat Malcor, Jonathon Peters, Eric Rosenbach, Lisa Ann Ruddick,
Thomas Shelburne, and Patrick White.

Receiving scholarships in the Sophomore class were Jeff Crain, William Pomeroy, and Richard Rivera. Erin Forest was awarded a scholarship
to begin her Junior year.

In the Senior class, John Howell, Sydney Smith, Kevin Griggs, and Ted Richardson were honored with the Distinguished Military Student
Award. John Howell and Mark Swofford received the Advanced Camp Achievement Award for graduating in the top 30% of Advanced
Camp. Mac Grimes received the Military Order of World Wars Award for his improvement in scholastic and military studies over
the past year. Sydney Smith received the Veterans of Foreign Wars Award recognizing her as the most outstanding squad leader
last semester. Finally, Sophomore Chris Hage and Junior Kelly Davis received the Reserve Officer Association Award for having the most
merit points last year. Davidson ROTC will host another awards ceremony in the Spring.

* * *

On Sunday, September 29, ROTC cleaned up three miles of Davidson-Concord Road. Davidson ROTC’s chapter of Scabbard and Blade has
sponsored Davidson-Concord Road in the North Carolina Adopt a Highway program for the past five years and will continue for
another three. Twice a year students in ROTC spend the afternoon cleaning up the road. This year twenty-two students and
two cadre members participated.

EDUCATION FOR THE REAL WORLD

44

Graduate degree programs (MA, Ph.D) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues.

Area and Functional Fields:

- Interamerican Studies (U.S.-Latin American Relations)
- Soviet and East European Studies
- Middle East Studies
- International Relations
- International Business Management
- International Security and Conflict
- Comparative Development
- International Economics

Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid.

North-South Center

Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Assistantships.

GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
Admissions, Room # 366
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010
(305) 284-4173

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

"MY ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIP IS PAYING OFF TWICE"

“My Army scholarship is paying for most of my Davidson College education. It's worth over $12,000 per year. But it's
paying off even more with the leadership experience and officer credentials impressive to future employers."

Eric is one of many Davidson College students who have won Army ROTC scholarships. You can too!

For more information on how you can apply for a three-year Army scholarship contact Major Mike Hawkins at Belk Hall,
Room 2, or call 2165.

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.
