MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991

Campus Living

Freelove Upthumpa's Weekend Workout!
By Freelove Upthumpa

It’s early morning and you’re feeling rough. Not quite sure how to handle those hangover blues? Try a good hearty
workout! Don’t worry, this isn’t like that crap you’ve seen Jane Fonda and the gang pushing down your throats, this
is the real stuff.

1) You’ve got to start off slow, or you could really do some damage. I recommend you perform this first
exercise while still in bed. That’s right! Light up a smoke! Breathe deeply, and be sure to let that nice
healthy breakfast of nicotine and tar sink completely into your lungs. If you haven’t been trained in this sort of
workout before, then try something easy, like a Merit Ultra Light, but if you think you’re ready to hang with
the big dogs, break out those filterless Camels, or even the Lucky Strikes!

2) Now that you’ve gotten your lungs ready for another day, it’s time to get down to something physical: gratuitous
sex. Yes, people, there’s nothing like a good tussle in the morning to get things flowing. If you’re alone, well,
that shouldn’t slow you down, just pretend.

3) Yes indeedy, the next step of the daily workout is just what you’d expect after sex: another cigarette.

4) You’ve worked hard so far, so go and hit the showers.

5) All clean, and ready to get back to work. By now your partner from step two should have gotten
the message to bolt, but just in case little lovie cakes is still hanging around without a purpose, there’s always
a room to be cleaned. Remember folks, I’m not being sexist, women should engage in a little domestic pushing around
here for the sake of equal rights. Tell that lazy sack of seminal fluid you brought home last night to
earn his keep and tidy up if he’s going to hang around your room. Who the hell does he think
he is?

6) Good God! You've been so wrapped up watching your little sweetie tidy up the place that you’ve almost forgotten
to watch your self-confidence, while preserving those ever-tender muscles in your lower back.

7) Well, heck, if they’ve done a decent job cleaning the room, you might as well have some more sex.
It’s about time for a little cardiovascular stimulation anyway. Don’t forget to have a smoke after you finish.

8) This next exercise is extremely important, and without proper implementation, the whole “fitness Saturday” could be blown: a nap.
Sleep is extremely important, and it also strengthens your self-confidence, while preserving those ever-tender muscles in your lower back.

Sophomore Chip Petree is just one of the millions who have thrived with Freelove's Weekend Workout.

Party Reviews:
By Joe

In a radical departure from its former policy, The Davidphonian decided recently to begin reviewing Davidson’s parties. G. Datty and
I began drinking early Friday afternoon, and it got a little out of hand. Datty passed out about six o’clock,
but I went out for a rocking night on Patterson Court and, as it turned out, other places. Every house
was raising hell, and it turned out to be very interesting.

Phi Delt: Like I said, we started drinking early. By the time I went out, the beer had given me
that bravery that it seems so often to do. I wasn’t really scared at all, even though I had heard
that the athletes were all celebrating Davidson’s imminent return to the Southern Conference and that action’s implications for athletic scholarships.
It turned out, though, that I had nothing to be scared of.of. The football players were mesmerized by an intense
game of Crazy Eights, and the only other people there were international students, who were busy hitting on the four
big-haired, blonde-haired Queens chicks. While I was there, the music playing was Trixter, but they were putting in some Scorpions
as I left. I would have liked to stay, but Yo! SPE Raps had already started. SPE: NWA usually really
gets me off, but watching a bunch of guys dancing to it with their girlfriends is enough to make anyone
puke (which, dude, I had already done because I’m such a party monster). I must say, though, that Yo! SPE
Raps is a good party most of the time, but that night all the brothers were too busy playing ping
pong to hang out and talk. I did get to talk to one of the SPEs, who told me all
about his senior math major project, but his pirate outfit really confused me. It turns out that he was the
mistaken one, but the net effect was that I was really disoriented walking up to PiKA. And when the DJ
put on Tone Loc as I was on American Gladiators on the Fox. Settle in, light a smoke, and watch
what happens when people take their workouts too seriously. If staring at these pumped-up muscle mutants doesn’t convert you to
Freelove’s workout, nothing will. Mommah the way, I almost lost it.

PiKA: I had just recovered from my trials at the SPE house when I walked into the sauna they call
PiKA. Actually, it took me about twenty minutes to make my way through the crowd of people I had never
seen before. Don’t get me wrong, though. They were all really laid-back and way kind. I have to admit that
I was surprised to find out that PiKA was having a party, but my friend told me that they had
decided to take some of the money from that lucrative Pike Dog business and Spencer had promised to pay for
some of the punch. The fraternity didn’t tell the Spencer girls it was going to have liquor in it. Anyway,
the music was pretty good, but all the people were dancing really strangely. My time was short, though, with the
2 o’clock time limit on kegs, so I had to get over to KA.

See "Parties" on Page 8

important to the success of this workout. Remember, your health is at stake!

9) You’re up now for the second part of the day, and by now, dammit, you’re hungry. Get on the
phone and call a pledge, because you deserve it! If you’re female, it’s time now to make some use out
of that meathead frat-boy again: tell him to call one of his pledges. Threaten celibacy, if necessary. (Few things matter
as much to your average fraternity man than the regular release of his manliness.) While you’re waiting for that food
to arrive, you might as well get serious and fix yourself a drink. Hell, it’s almost 2:00 pm by now!

10) After a hearty dinner, several drinks, and more smokes, it’s time to go out on the town, or the
court in our case. This is where the workout gets tough: fighting the crowds for a beer, climbing up and
down the stairs, having to go all the way outside to urinate, and of course, the ritualistic dancing on tables
in an attempt to find another assistant for steps 2, 5, 7, & 9 of Freelove’s Sunday Work-Out!

Freelove Upthanta’s Work-Outs are endorsed by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON: We're the door-to-door salespeople of tomorrow!
