THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

Four Freshmen Injured in Accident
By Tom Price

While returning from the Manor Theater in Charlotte last Monday night, four freshmen women were involved in a single-car accident.
Jo Burrows, Elizabeth Fleming, Rebecca Faulkenberg, and Anna Grey Anderson all sustained injuries. Burrows, the driver of the vehicle, was
the most seriously hurt of the four. As of press time, she is still in the intensive care unit at
Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte. She suffered a lacerated liver and bruised her gall bladder and a kidney. She was operated
on Monday night. Due to her injuries, Burrows has had to withdraw from school this term. She is hoping to
return to Davidson in the Spring.

Elizabeth Fleming suffered a concussion, a separated shoulder, and injured her neck. As a result of her concussion, Fleming does
not recall the accident taking place. Rebecca Faulkenberg suffered a broken hand and had to undergo surgery to reset the
thumb. She also sprained her ankle. Anna Grey Anderson fared the best in the accident, as she only suffered a
sprained ankle.

Apparently, the accident occurred as Burrows reached down to adjust the car’s heater or radio. Upon looking up, she overcompensated
for being too far over in the lane and struck a telephone pole. The four women were returning from viewing
a movie for a film class they are enrolled in this term.

Sex Continued from page 1

so valuable needs to be protected. Around fifth grade, students learn of the changes they are to expect in their
bodies and why these occur. Finally, in junior high, students are introduced to the word AIDS. They are told of
the physical and psychological consequences of being too physically involved. Bynum said, “There is a certain veil of modesty we
are all born with.” She said this modesty is why male and female students are separated in the education process
at this point, “so as not to break this veil of modesty.”

Miller added that often it’s not the children who cannot speak about sex to their parents, it’s the parents that
can’t talk about it with their kids. Miller said, “This is where Planned Parenthood is important. Too little or too
much education on sex, whether it’s at home or at school, is a dangerous thing.” According to Miller, what we
need to do is to, “teach them (students) how to say no, and how to say yes, and when. Our
sex education classes are not meant to put fear into students. We want them to know that sex education does
not lead to sexual intercourse.”

Sara Withers said, “What we need is to tell students early on that sex goes hand in hand with love.
Just saying ‘no’ alone is not effective.” Gross added to Withers’ comment by saying, “Sex is not just genitals and
it’s not only dangerous; you can die.” She also reinforced the idea of parents working with their children to gain
a mutual understanding about the issue of sex. In reality, Miller believes, parents cannot do it all and neither can
the school system. “Socially, we have failed in teaching our children about sex,” said Miller.

Speaking from a physician’s point of view, Gross said, “It’s so pathetic to see twelve and thirteen-year-old girls pregnant or
with a venereal disease because it’s so preventable.” Peer pressure and television were the two leading causes given for teenagers
having sex at such early ages. “There is a lot of deceptive teaching on television,” that makes sex very appealing
said Bynum. She added, “We (the school system) get a lot of emotionally disabled children who have no self-value. It’s
up to society to do everything they can to help these children.”

In a final comment, Sara Withers said, “Early age sex has a lot to do with the belief that sex
just comes naturally. Sex is almost a secretive subject.” The panel concluded the forum by agreeing that education is the
best preventative of sexual disease and unwanted pregnancy.For News: Call Tom Koonce at -6582.

DAVIDSON OUTDOORS IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR TRIP LEADERS

Do you love the outdoors? Want to go on adventurous trips to beautiful places? Want to learn outdoor skills and
situational leadership? Are you a freshman, sophomore, or junior and can make a commitment to lead at least 2 weekend
trips a year? Then apply for a position with us! We're looking for women and men to train for positions
as Trip Leaders. Candidates need not be experienced in the outdoors, but some interest could be helpful. Basically, we need
leaders with "people skills," good judgment, and a sincere interest in providing quality outdoor experiences for people.

Trip Leader Training will consist of 10 two-hour sessions on weeknights during the semester, two weekend Adventure Challenges, and successful
completion of Red Cross CPR and Standard First-Aid classes.

If you are interested, then please plan to attend an organizational meeting on Monday, December 8 at 8:00 p.m. in
the Davidson Outdoors Center, Johnston Gym. Also, bring a short letter of interest outlining: 1) previous outdoor experience, 2) leadership
experience, and 3) community service experience.

Greg Sheppard, Director, Davidson Outdoors

---

Student Government News

The SGA meeting last week opened with an announcement about a Minus Grades Forum to address the concerns of students
in coordination with the work of the ad hoc committee looking into the issue. The panel will consist of 3
students and 3 faculty members. The forum was scheduled to occur on Wednesday, November 20 but was canceled because of
a conflict with drop/add that night. A new date has yet to be announced.

The Rides Committee reported that there is now a bulletin board in the Union helping coordinate carpools around the country.
There is a map of the United States allowing students to pinpoint where they would like to go or where
they are going. This committee also arranges rides to Charlotte, especially trips to the airport before and after breaks. Call
the chairpersons with any questions or to arrange a ride (Virginia Edington at -6647 or Marie Huntington at -6559).

The majority of last week’s meeting dealt with the vote deciding whether or not to give F.L.A.G. a charter. This
discussion allowed senators and F.L.A.G. officers to express their concerns about the establishment of this organization at Davidson. Detailed notes
on the discussion can be found in the SGA minutes.

---

Conduct Continued from page 1

Roses around AES

With property rights, personal rights are now emphasized more than rights of property. The new section is entitled “Misconduct Which
Affects the Rights of Persons.” It reads:

The students of Davidson College are responsible for maintaining an environment in which all individuals are treated with respect. To
that end, students will not engage in any form of activity which intentionally or recklessly results in physical injury to
any person on College premises or at College-sponsored activities, or which interferes with the rights of visitors or members of
the community. Physical abuse, threats of violence, or conduct which endangers the health and safety of others are prohibited. Davidson
College does not condone and will not tolerate sexual assault of any kind. Rape is forced sexual intercourse that is
perpetrated against the will of the victim; it occurs if one person uses force to coerce another, regardless of the
relationship existing between them. In acquaintance or “date” rape, the assailant may be a casual acquaintance, classmate, date, or significant
other. The Code of Responsibility also applies to sexual harassment and to other forms of sexual assault, regardless of whether
penetration occurs, including, but not limited to, abusive conduct, digital penetration, and the unwanted touching of an intimate part of
another person. Obscene phone calls are another example of misconduct affecting persons.

---

Columbia “Get 'em while it's cold!” Cloth™ Parka

With 100% nylon and a zip-out liner, the Columbia Cloth™ Parka is an exceptional buy at 20% off, now $119.00.
Shops on McDonald's and the Campus Equipment & Clothing.
