14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

Conference Tourny Starts Thursday
By Bruce Balestier

Davidson’s 73-58 victory over Campbell Wednesday, combined with Winthrop’s 58-44 loss to Augusta Saturday, earned the Wildcats sole possession of
fourth place in the Big South with a 6-8 conference record. Winthrop finished alone in fifth place with a 5-9
record. The ‘Cats will now face Winthrop in the opening round of the Big South Conference Tournament, which begins Thursday
at the Anderson, S.C. Civic Center. The Wildcats and Eagles will meet there Thursday at 3:00 p.m., with tickets available
through the Ticket Office.

The two teams split their two regular season meetings, with the home team winning each game. The Wildcats routed the
Eagles 59-42 February 6 at Belk Arena, as Jeff Chapin scored 14 points and James Marsh captured 12 rebounds. Winthrop
won 71-69 February 16 in Rock Hill. Jason Zimmerman led the ‘Cats with 20 points in that game.

Notes: As of Wednesday, Jason Zimmerman was the 8th best foul shooter in the country with a mark of 88.1%.
He is the only freshman in the top 25. He continues to lead the Big South, and will set a
new conference record if he continues at his present pace. Zimmerman also ranks 10th in the Big South in scoring,
at 12.4 per game, and 3rd in 3-point field goal percentage, at 41.7%. James Marsh is 3rd in the league
in field goal percentage at 55.3%, and 8th in rebounding at 6.4 per game. Junior Paul Denmond ranks 3rd in
free throw shooting at 78.6%.

Men's Track Closes Indoor Slate
By Peter Hurtado

The men’s track and field team closed its most successful indoor season ever this past Saturday at the Best Western
Invitational at Virginia Tech. The men enter the outdoor season ready to rewrite the record books. Senior John Moss led
the way for the Wildcats with a spectacular performance of 15:55.4 in the 5000m run, placing 5th overall. This is
the 3rd fastest 5000m time in Davidson history; look for John to carry this success into his final outdoor season.

Freshman Rob King improved his distance in the shot put to an outstanding 39’7 1/4", placing 4th. Freshman William Presson
continued his success in the triple jump, placing 6th with a sensational jump of 41’9 1/2". This represents the second-best
triple jump in Davidson history. Another Freshman, DJ Ruggles, turned in a fine performance in the triple jump of 39’4
1/2". Presson (20’1 3/4") and Ruggles (19’3 1/4") also had great performances in the long jump.

In distance events, milers David Kerns (4:34.4) and Cam Dauler (4:35.9) closed their indoor season with personal bests for the
mile. Peter Hurtado (9:11) and Ian Stewart (9:13) paced each other to personal bests in the 3000m run. Freshman Richard
Wharton ran a promising 3000m of 9:35 to close his indoor season. Freshmen Duncan Spears (52.9) and David Stewart (53.7)
led the way with strong performances in the 400m run. Both David and Duncan have had outstanding indoor seasons and
should continue to impress in the outdoor season.

Also, in the 400m, Sam Patterson (56.3) and William Bobo (59.1) ran strong as they gear up for the outdoor
season. The return of Mike Grant from injury should bolster the 400m corps. In sprints, Freshmen Wendell Robbins (6.78) and
DJ Ruggles (6.90) continue to run great times for the 55m dash. Both men add the speed that has been
absent from Davidson track squads for several years.

Though absent from the final meet, captain Ted Richardson has highlighted the Wildcats season. Ted has established himself as the
top middle-distance runner in recent memory at Davidson with sensational performances this winter in the mile, 3000m, and 5000m. Strengthened
by several outstanding freshmen, the men’s team has never looked so strong in so many events. This year’s squad looks
to surpass the milestone performances of last year’s team this spring. The men get their first crack at the outdoor
record books here at the Davidson/Ridgeview Invitational on Saturday, March 9th. Come out and be a part of history.

Women’s Track Shines at Best Western Invitational
By Peter Hurtado

The Women’s Track and Field Team closed its indoor season on a high note this past Saturday at the Best
Western Invitational at Virginia Tech. Touching off a season in which 7 records have been established, the women got strong
efforts from the entire squad. Heather Tarpley highlighted the team’s performance with her 6th place finish in the 400m (62.4),
and a 3rd place finish in the shot put (33’5"). Heather should challenge several outdoor records this spring.

Freshman Karen Marshall returned after injury in fine fashion to place 4th in the mile (5:32.2). Karen also ran a
strong 800m of 2:28.1. Karen is now among the top ten performers ever in both these events. Kathy Beach led
the way for the Wildcats in the 3000m run, placing 6th in 10:47.1. Senior Laurie Reams (11:40), freshman Lisa Sitek
(11:49), and senior Katie Reynolds (11:50) paced each other to excellent times in the 3000m. Freshman Amy Bertram (12:29) followed,
having recently returned from injury. These are the best times recorded by Davidson women in recent years and bode well
for the coming outdoor season.

Freshman Jennifer Humphrey turned in fine performances in the 400m (70.1), and in the 200m (31.1). Jennifer isAmong the ten
fastest women ever for both events, Coaches Andrew and Manson are extremely pleased with the team’s performances this winter. Look
for the record books to continue to be rewritten this Spring. Come out and show your support for the Lady
Wildcats this Tuesday, when the women host their first outdoor meet at 4:00 p.m.

Rounding out the team’s Campbell, named to the third team, continued from Page 13. By more than eleven points at
halftime, he commented that “they hit the quick points and we did not.” This was true for Davidson in last
Saturday’s game at Winthrop and was in effect Wednesday night. McKillop was pleased to see such a strong showing from
the student body in terms of noise and support. “The fans were great,” he said. “The support factor has been
absent in the transition from Johnston Gym to the Baker Sports Complex. I’m delighted to see them here and I
think it made our players play to the intensity they are capable of. Tonight, there was a more intimate atmosphere.”
The win pushed Davidson’s record to 6-8 in the Big South and 8-18 overall. Also, Davidson is guaranteed a final
finish in the Big South of no worse than fifth place. Davidson concludes its regular season tonight at Liberty. Game
time is 6:00 p.m.

Davidson Soccer Receives Honors, Gains Credibility
By Tom Price

The Davidson soccer team enjoyed its best season ever and received a slew of awards for its efforts during 1990.
Heading the list of post-season award recipients is junior Rob Ukrop, who was named second team All-American by the National
Soccer Coaches Association of America after scoring 22 goals and 12 assists. Rob’s 22 goals made him the nation’s third
leading scorer.

Seniors Peter Cobb and Ross Saldarini joined Ukrop as All-South Region team choices. Both Ukrop and Cobb were selected to
the first team, while Saldarini was named to the third team. Rounding out the team’s awards was the selection of
coach Charlie Slagle as the South Region Coach of the Year. This award is particularly impressive since the South Region
features the majority of the Atlantic Coast Conference schools and other quality teams. Sophomore Matt Rage believes that this was
a particularly meaningful award because the South “has the most talent” and Coach Slagle “doesn’t even have an assistant coach.”

Last year’s record of 15-7-2, given that it came against tough Division I competition, has given Davidson credibility and a
national reputation. The fact that the team achieved such success against teams which often had scholarship players makes it even
more remarkable. Coach Slagle contends that most college teams “knew we could play,” but that now news of the program
has spread “into the high schools.” He therefore expects last season’s success to produce positive results in the future.

Talented new recruits and improved play by the returning players will be necessary to replace the loss of seniors Saldarini,
Cobb, and goalkeeper Scott Zucker. Saldarini and Zucker anchored the defense last season and their leadership will be sorely missed.
Slagle says that junior Doug Long “will be ready” to step in and replace Zucker as goalkeeper. He also feels
that a pair of incoming freshmen should be able to help out there. Saldarini’s steady play will be difficult to
replace, but current freshmen Ben Hayes and Ed Denning will help keep the defense strong. And Spear, a two-year starter,
promises that “the defense will be back.” The sheer speed of Peter Cobb may be the most difficult element for
the team to replace. His explosive play resulted in 12 goals and 8 assists in 1990.

The schedule in 1991 will be just as grueling as it was last year. The team’s first four games will
be against teams that received bids to the NCAA Tournament, and the fifth game will be against Duke. Slagle, however,
believes in playing the tough teams and says that he wants to “bring the best competition in the country to
Davidson.” Conference play will also be challenging; the Big South features seven strong teams which “can compete successfully on the
national level.” The strength of the conference may soon result in an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament for the
winner of the conference tournament. This matter is currently being discussed by the NCAA.

Spear admits that last year’s success will create “tremendous pressure to repeat.” Nonetheless, the team is confident that 1991 will
be an even better year. Ukrop states that the team’s primary goal for next season is to win the Big
South championship. A secondary goal is to receive a bid to the NCAA Tournament. Obviously, both goals will be difficult
to achieve, and Slagle insists that “talent won’t get us a bid.” He emphasizes the necessity of hard work and
dedication as a means to attaining these goals.

The Wildcats will play a limited spring schedule against several top teams, including conference power Radford and the University of
North Carolina. The team began competition last weekend when they traveled to Columbia and scored a 1-0 victory against the
Gamecocks of South Carolina. Sophomore Phelps Sprinkle’s header proved to be the game-winner. The ‘Cats were defeated in their second
game of the spring season at UNCC. Rob Ukrop provided the only goal in a 2-1 loss.
