THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991 17 Sports Wildcats Lose to Alabama, Come Back to Humiliate Methodist in Season's First 100 Point Game By Bruce Balestier

Alabama 76 Davidson 59

With a 76-59 loss to 17th-ranked Alabama on November 23, Davidson’s basketball team proved that it can compete evenly with a top-20 team. ‘Bama’s lead was just 11 points with 1:51 remaining, and Crimson Tide coach Wimp Sanderson was forced to play his starting unit nearly the entire game. The Wildcats frustrated Alabama somewhat with stingy halfcourt defense, but transition defense was the difference; the Tide got easy shots and easy baskets from the fast break.

Davidson trailed by eight points, 36-28, after a fairly even first half. Senior tri-captain Paul Denmond kept the Wildcats in the game with eight first-half points; his jumper at the 8:23 mark cut the Alabama lead to 22-21. Down by 6, the ‘Cats held the ball for the last possession of the half, but a quick shot by Janko Narat led to a fast break for the Tide. Center Cedric Moore’s leaning layup as time expired in the half gave his team the 8-point halftime cushion.

In the second half, Davidson cut ‘Bama’s lead to 5 (36-31) on a three-pointer by Pat Holloway with 19:15 left, and again (42-37) on a three by Narat with 15:53 to go before Alabama made their decisive run. Latrell Sprewell’s consecutive three-point shots were the big blows in a 13-0 spurt that gave the Tide a 55-37 advantage. Still, Davidson continued to hack methodically at the lead. A three-pointer by freshman guard Frank Harris cut the lead to 66-53 with 3:10 left, and Detlef Musch scored off a lob pass with 2:38 remaining to make it 66-55. When Scott Alford passed to Narat for a fast-break reverse layup with 1:51 left, the lead was again 11 at 68-57. Three late Alabama layups accounted for the final margin.

Narat led Davidson with 12 points despite a 5-15 showing from the field. Musch contributed 10 points and Harris 9 (on perfect 4-4 shooting from the floor) for the ‘Cats. Robert Horry paced Alabama with 22 points. Davidson outrebounded the Tide 34-30, including 20-8 on the offensive boards. The Wildcats did not shoot a free throw.

After the game, Sanderson complimented the Davidson performance, “My hat’s off to Davidson for the way they played and the effort they gave,” he said. Davidson coach Bob McKillop was similarly impressed. “I thought our guys gave a terrific effort tonight,” praised McKillop. “This is why our Dingess come here.”

Davidson 102 Methodist 73

Beset by poor play during the first 11 minutes of the game, Davidson used a late first-half run to put away Division III Methodist, and cruised to a 102-73 victory. The win was marked by the fine offensive play of freshman guard Frank Harris. Harris shot 10-13 from the field on the way to 21 points, passed for 6 assists, and collected 4 rebounds.

Having proved in the season opener against Alabama that they belonged on the floor with a top-20 team, the Wildcats set out to prove in this game that they belonged on the floor with a Division III team. The Monarchs opened up a 16-9 advantage thanks to some hot shooting and lackadaisical play on both ends by Davidson. Gradually, though, the ‘Cats climbed back into the game, pulling even at 17-17 on a pair of free throws by senior tri-captain Sterling Freeman, and vaulting to a 21-19 lead on a Harris basket in the paint with 11:35 left. From there, a 21-3 spurt turned a narrow 25-24 lead into a commanding 46-27 cushion with 3:44 to go in the half. A layup by Freeman and a tip-in by Janko Narat in the final minute of the half gave the ‘Cats a 60-39 edge at halftime, and they were never again threatened.

The second stanza proceeded in similar fashion; the ‘Cats hounded the Monarchs with aggressive man-to-man defense, and utilized their size advantage to gain easy shots on the offensive end. Davidson finished with four dunks, three by center Detlef Musch and one by 6’8" freshman George Spain. Musch scored 13 points and Pat Holloway added 12 for Davidson. The ‘Cats held a 48-31 rebounding advantage over the undersized Monarchs. On a negative note, while the Wildcats forced 18 Methodist turnovers, they committed 15 of their own.

While Methodist certainly didn’t provide the physical talent or size of Alabama, Davidson coach Bob McKillop saw the game as a test of a different sort. Said McKillop, “As Alabama had challenged us physically, Methodist challenged us mentally.”

Wrestling Matches Cancelled Due to Outbreak of Staph Infections

Davidsonian Staff Reports

Wrestling Coach Tom Oddo was forced to cancel his team’s matches on Saturday due to an outbreak of staphylococcus infections among members of the team. Davidson had been scheduled to wrestle Pensacola, Anderson, and the Southern Conference rival the Citadel in separate dual matches. The Wildcats picked up the infection in Tuesday’s loss at Virginia State. Staph infections are caused by wrestling on dirty mats. BecauseThe infections often recur, and the sick wrestlers could be out for a lengthy period of time. The middle of the Wildcat lineup took most of the damage. Henry Neale (142 lbs.), G.A. McClung (150 lbs.), Sam Knowles (158 lbs.), and Scott Townsend (167 lbs.) all contracted the illness. These starters will likely be replaced with more inexperienced freshmen. In an unrelated incident, Russ Felker (118 lbs.) broke his hand and will be out for several weeks. 

On a more positive note, Jimmy Stewart (Heavyweight) and Craig Wall (177 lbs.) both placed fourth at the James Madison Invitational on Nov. 24. Wall and Stewart led the Wildcats against a strong field which included the University of Virginia, William and Mary, Virginia Tech, and American University. Davidson is scheduled to wrestle in the Sunshine Open in Tampa on Dec. 29. They return to home action on Jan. 11 against Washington and Lee and Anderson.

"Our physical toughness, this game challenged our mental toughness.” In addition, McKillop praised the performance of Harris. “Frank Harris is doing the things we recruited him to do,” he said. “He’s got good instincts and court savvy. Most importantly, he plays without fear.”

Davidson 71, U. of the South 44

Solid defense was again the constant as the Wildcats overcame a terrible offensive first half to beat the University of the South. Detlef Musch had his way with the Tigers, scoring 21 points on 9-11 shooting, and claiming 11 rebounds. The ‘Cats held Sewanee to 28% shooting and 19 points in the opening half, but led by just 4 points because of an anemic offensive showing. Davidson committed 13 turnovers and shot just 40% from the field in the first half. Coach Bob McKillop felt that his players “were trying to hit the home run offensively.”

From the opening possession of the second half, it was a different Davidson team offensively. The ‘Cats connected on 63% of their shots in the second half and gradually built a more than twenty-point lead. Davidson took a 67-39 lead with one minute left when freshman walk-on Linton Elliott buried a baseline jumper for the first points of his career. Surprisingly, the improved second-half performance wasn’t the product of a McKillop diatribe. McKillop said that he “went into the locker room and applauded their defensive effort and told them to relax.”

In addition to Musch’s 21 points, Scott Alford and Frank Harris contributed 8 points. Thirteen men played and 11 scored for Davidson. The ‘Cats owned a 46-25 rebounding advantage. McKillop singled out his team’s defensive effort as deserving of praise and acknowledged that the offense has not yet come together. “I was delighted with the defensive effort we gave tonight,” he said. “We need to maintain that level of intensity on defense and translate that intensity to the offense.” It was impressive to see Davidson players diving for loose balls with a nearly thirty-point lead late in the game. Said McKillop, “If they give that kind of effort night in and night out, they’ll get a lot of victories this year.”

William and Mary 70, Davidson 69 (OT)

In what is becoming an early December tradition for William and Mary fans, the Tribe defeated Davidson by one point for the third year in a row. After a pair of missed foul shots by William and Mary’s Scott Smith, Davidson regained possession for a last shot with six seconds left. Sophomore Pat Holloway dribbled the length of the court to the left corner but could not launch a shot before the final buzzer sounded.

Early on, it appeared that Davidson might turn the game into a rout.

See "W&M" on page 19

Swimmers Down Salem & Pfeiffer, Stand With Even 2-2 Record

By Chris Hood

Davidson’s women’s swimming and diving squad earned its first victories of the season at home on December 4, crushing Salem 76-11 and edging Pfeiffer 55-54. With the triumphs, the ‘Cats break for Christmas with a 2-2 mark. The outcome of the Pfeiffer contest hinged on the final event, the 200 freestyle relay. Caroline Prioleau, Audrey Schuetz, Kristie Moss, and Miche Baskett reigned, and the ‘Cats notched the win.

On November 23, the men traveled to VMI and fell 121-107. Hayler Osborn captured the breaststroke, and the divers added significantly to the ‘Cats point total. With the 1991 portion of their schedule complete, the men stand at 0-4. Head Coach Ron Morrow remains optimistic about this year’s swimmers and divers. “We're moving right along,” he said. Although Davidson has suffered due to numerous injuries, Morrow stressed that “we’re going to do our best with whomever shows up.”

Looking forward to 1992, the ‘Cats future looks bright. With several athletes returning from semesters abroad and the prospect of some injuries having time to heal, Davidson swimming and diving should be at its peak. The ‘Cats open the second half of their season at the University of Tampa during the first week of the new year. On January 11, Davidson visits East Carolina, one of the strongest programs in the area.