2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991

Davidson Alumnus Working To Help Grieving Families
By Catherine McEaddy

Lisa Hullinger was brutally murdered in Cincinnati, Ohio in 1978. Her death led her parents to form a support group
with other local families who were stricken with a similar tragedy. In 1981, the organization was formally chartered as Parents
of Murdered Children or Other Survivors of Homicide Victims, or POMC, and has exploded in growth with new chapters nationwide.
The organization exhibits a Memorial Wall listing loved ones that have been lost to the cruel death of murder. This
wall was exhibited at Davidson in the Union on October 1, 1990. This organization has another connection with Davidson. The
state coordinators, Betty and Ross Parks, are old Davidson family. Mr. Parks graduated from Davidson in 1943. Both Parks have
several Davidson alumni in their family.

Mark's Gospel Solo Performance To Be Presented
By Meredith Hammons

Max McLean will be presenting his acclaimed solo performance of Mark’s Gospel on Thursday, February 7 at 8:15 pm in
the 900 Room of the College Union. Mark’s Gospel has toured all over the United States, Canada, and overseas before
thousands of people in colleges, seminaries, conferences, churches, and conventions. Mark’s Gospel is believed to be the earliest account of
the life and ministry of Jesus of Nazareth. McLean said, "Many people perceive the gospel as obscure and hard to
understand. It’s not. It’s a story written to be told. When liberated from the printed page it springs to vibrant
life. Jesus becomes more accessible and we can encounter Him just as His followers did.”

Charles Colson, author and columnist for Christianity Today Magazine, writes, “Max McLean is an extraordinarily gifted Christian artist. His dramatization
of Mark brings the gospel to life in a unique and powerful way. I felt like I was there—with Jesus—in
the greatest drama of all time.”

“In presenting Mark he uses no costumes, no makeup, no podium, and no props other than a chair. Audiences quietly
lost track of the fact that McLean is quoting Bible verses. They even forget that he is using carefully rehearsed
body motions, facial expressions, and voice inflections. Instead, they sit engrossed in the story of Jesus,” wrote Moody Monthly Magazine.

As an actor, McLean has performed a number of leading roles in Great Britain, Europe, and New York, including Stanley
in A Streetcar Named Desire, Snoopy in You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown, Berowne in Love’s Labour’s Lost, and the
Priest in Murder in the Cathedral. Born in 1953 in Panama City, Panama, McLean came to the United States at
age four. Because of his father’s career as a military officer, McLean lived in various places across the United States,
the Far East, and Europe. He began his stage career in 1974 while completing his degree in History at the
University of Texas. Upon graduation, he acted and directed for American military troops in West Germany. Later, he was accepted
to the postgraduate acting program at London’s Mountview Theater School where he graduated in 1978.

In 1982, McLean began work on Mark’s Gospel. In September 1983, it opened to a small crowd for a short
run. Word of mouth advertising grew so that by the end of the run Mark’s Gospel was playing to near
capacity audiences. His solo performances have earned him recognition from Christian leaders throughout North America and he is listed in
Who’s Who in Entertainment. McLean is a member of Long Hill Chapel, a Christian and Missionary Alliance congregation in Chatham,
New Jersey.

McGrady Up For Truman Scholarship
By Gary Wheeler

Jennifer McGrady, ’92, has been selected from a pool of over 1000 applicants as a Truman Scholar finalist. To be
named a finalist, McGrady had to be nominated by a Davidson faculty panel, be picked as one of the school’s
three representatives, and then have her application selected as one of the 200 finalists in the nation. The Truman Scholarship
is designed to encourage and reward students that plan to pursue a career in public service. The scholarship pays for
the recipient’s last year of undergraduate school and up to two years of postgraduate education. McGrady is currently the co-curricular
vice president of the Union Board and volunteers her time as a tutor in the Time to Read program. She
has tentative plans to be involved in urban education after graduation.

Announcing The Acceptance Of Applications For Resident Advisor 1991-92

Applications may be picked up for a year-long appointment at the Residence Life Office, Belk Residence.Hall. DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF
APPLICATION: February 14th INTERVIEWS: February 25th-March 5th Benefits: 1/2 Room Rate, $375.00 Annual Stipend

lies, including many members of Phi Beta Kappa. Their daughter, Betsy, was murdered in 1975 at NC State University. The
Parks became involved with POMC in 1982. POMC fulfills a need. As an organization, it can shelter the victims’ families
and provide a network of support to help with their grief. As Parks said, “We are strictly a support group
and nothing else. We work with people and their grief.” More information about POMC can be obtained by contacting the
national headquarters at (513) 721-5683.

Muslims Continued from Page 1

“evil” America because of their concept of “jihad,” which means “striving to protect the faith.” “Jihad is almost always understood
to be an inner battle,” Mahony said. “The believer strives to protect the inner light of goodness, ‘taqwa’, that Muslims
feel God has put within all human beings. One of the Islamic beliefs is that at the end of time,
those who have protected that inner light will be resurrected to a better, eternal life. “But for those who give
their lives in battle against evil, time will collapse and they will not have to wait until the end of
time to enjoy this better life.”

Mahony believes that Americans should make a greater effort to learn about Islam, which is now the world’s fastest growing
religion. Demographers predict that in the United States, Muslims will outnumber Jews in another 30 or 40 years. Mahony hopes
for another “day of Abraham,” when all Jews, Christians, and Muslims will all sit down at the same table. The
three religions share many of the same basic beliefs, and trace their lineage to the same great biblical patriarchs. “Islam
is not so different from Christianity. This is not a problem of Muslims fighting Christians,” Mahony said. “We must be
careful of the history of this area, and walk softly. It is my own fear that this may not be
the case.”

Pond Continued From Page 1

study area. He has been upset by the handling of the project. Grant admits that there is a critical need
for faculty and staff housing, but he believes that McConnell Pond is not the place to develop. Dr. Grant believes
that there was no one on the committee sympathetic to his views. He also thinks that the college is not
that interested in conserving its natural green spaces. Besides Dr. Grant, there has been no other vocal opposition to the
project. Most in the department have remained quiet on the subject of the development. Others, such as Associate Professor Verna
Jean Case, are torn between wanting to preserve the land and being sympathetic to the housing problem.

Bob Sutton, member of the Task Force, spoke for the development by saying that it will, “not be a cookie-cut
of suburban development, but will have the feeling of Davidson.” He remarked that everyone was concerned with the biological needs
of the biology department. Sutton said that alternatives will be found if the natural laboratory conditions of the pond cannot
be kept. He added that this would be done by possibly leasing a pond for biological needs. According to Sutton,
over the next five years there could be up to 120 homes on the property. Around two-thirds of this will
be available for purchase by the faculty, staff, and the general public. The other portion will be leased to faculty
and staff. In this way, the College would retain ownership of some of the land throughout the years. Sutton comments
that this will, “provide affordable housing for faculty in the long haul.” The project will begin in three or four
months after financial matters and other issues are resolved. Sutton believes that there will probably be houses on the land
by the summer of 1992.

Targets Continued from Page 1

fares for the drop. Most foreign study directors, although they’re encouraging students to use common sense and maintain a low
profile, will heed advice from the State Department, which hasn’t urged any extra cautions to be taken in Europe. “It’s
business as usual,” said Pepperdine’s Bliss. During orientation sessions students studying abroad are advised “not to stand out as Americans,”
but that’s more as a courtesy to the host country than a security precaution. Davidson’s study abroad programs are continuing
as scheduled.

Fast Fundraising Program $1000 IN JUST ONE WEEK Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization. Plus
a chance at $5000 more! This Program works! No investment needed! Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50
