THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

By Sarah Sadowski

In the Feb. 21, 1991 edition of the New York Times, President Bush’s energy policy was displayed for all Americans
to see. The Bush Administration used a computerized model of energy consumption. Many critics of the proposal feel that Bush
has learned nothing, even in the midst of a war in the gulf region, about the detrimental effects of such
a great dependency on foreign oil. It seems as if Bush has failed to accurately assess this nation’s oil dependency
and energy consumption. Even the president of the American Petroleum Institute believes that the proposal will not halt the decline
of American oil production.

Jobs Continued from Page 9

and downs,” comments Jordan, “but if students begin to prepare early enough, they will be able to find a job
of interest and value to them, although it may not be their ideal job right away.” The Careers Office suggests
that students begin career counseling as early as freshman year “to begin the process of finding out who they are
and what they want to do in the future.” Moreover, summer experience is stressed as a way of exploring interests
and options. The office offers a four-year guide which outlines the steps toward developing a career plan. In retrospect, Christian
states, “I might have had fewer difficulties this year if I hadn’t gone abroad last year and had had time
to begin putting a resumé together earlier.” Jordan remarks that some colleges seem more strongly to encourage this career planning
process earlier; some even offer career planning courses. However, Jordan does not view these classes as necessary here. “Our career
counseling and career library are ample resources for Davidson students to develop a knowledge of who they are and what
careers are available to them,” she says.

Of course, not all seniors have faced multiple rejection letters. Some have decided not to begin a serious search until
later. Others, like senior Robert Jones, have already applied for several jobs and been accepted. Although he “hadn’t anticipated being
offered a job so soon,” Jones has secured an internship for the summer and will probably teach in Japan next
fall. Despite various individual successes, Crotts seems to sum up the feelings of many seniors on the job market, stating,
“It has been a very humbling experience.”

Movie Reviews

Beware The Grifters

Editor’s Note: The author of the following film review implored vehemently that none of his structural, grammatical, or spelling discrepancies
be corrected for stylistic reasons. The Davidsonian has decided to print the article because it is, well, interesting. Please address
your comments to the author.

By Jonathan Harris

The ‘Grifters’ is the new movie by Steven Frears. He brought the world of inner-city London to the screen in
“Sammy and Rosie Get Laid,” and left a generation depressed with “Dangerous Liaisons.” Now, Frears has dedicated some money and
the talent of John Cusack and Anjelica Huston to reconstruct a time and place from which nothing, no not even
light, can escape. Frears films the world of grift, those who do, those who don’t, and those that teeter on
the side of the dank well. Black is the exposé before us. And the hell grips, the horror astounds. Mother,
mother, Blood! Blood! If the filmgoer had known the grift was so bad she wouldn’t have gone to the movie,
she would have sat down in the mud and started raising a grift treatment center with her bare hands—crafting and
sculpting her way out of the mud into a building, a mud-stucco affair with a red trim roof. She would
have tried to stop the grift in all its forms. She wouldn’t have had time for a movie, she wouldn’t
have had time for a second thought. Even as she sent out fliers to decaying grifters, even as her back
grew twisted from walking and doing, even as her tongue grew sores and her lips ached for liquid solace she’d
know she was doing what she could to stop the grift, and so will you. This movie will tell you
what grift is and you won’t like it. This movie will make you feel the grift, the way of the
grift, the what of the grift and the who of the grift. If you think you know a grifter, turn
him in. If you think you’re a grifter, seek help, you’re in a bad film. John Cusack is a grifter,
there’s nodenying it John. This grifter lies, this grifter cheats, this grifter cons ‘cause that’s what the grift's all about.
If you know a grifter, turn her in. Anjelica Houston plays a grifter. She’s been piled high in grift since
John was born. She works for the mob. (My sister got into the grift. She never got out.) John’s girlfriend
works too, for the grift that is. Everyone in this movie is covered in grift; the slime of it.

Video Pick: Cinema Paradiso Is Beneissimo
By Lelia Salisbury

Movie magic is alive and well in Giuseppe Tornatore’s Cinema Paradiso. Tornatore explores growing up, relationships, love, and the golden
era of the silver screen through the eyes of a mischievous youngster. Toto is a typical Italian boy of seven—deaf
to adult voices and every parent and teacher’s nightmare. He is also inexplicably drawn to the crumbling building that is
the Cinema Paradiso, an old structure located in the middle of a sleepy Italian village in a time when movies
were still censored by the town priest. Schoolkids playing hooky, wives, old men, and drunkards alike all gather at the
Paradiso to lose themselves in the world of film. Toto and his movie-mentor Alfredo are fixtures at the magical Paradiso,
and they lead each other through the process of growing up and growing old with wonderful poignancy. This is the
kind of movie that gives you real characters and feelings and makes you laugh, sniffle, and smile at this great
drama called life.

This movie sounds great, you say, but wait, what do you mean it’s not in English? I have to watch
the movie and read at the same time? Yes, this is a subtitled movie, but as an avid watcher of
foreign films, I have to say that these were some of the best subtitles I have ever seen. After taking
a semester of Italian, I foolishly thought that I would understand the main storyline without reading the subtitles. After a
few minutes, I realized that I was only picking up words such as si, beneissimo, and grazie, and thus the
subtitles became a must (let’s just say that the Italians mumble when they speak and that no first-semester Italian student
should be expected to understand what they’re saying). The subtitles were just as funny as the original dialogue; so, luckily
for all the non-Italian speakers, not much is lost in translation.

Another sidenote: you really can learn things about Italian culture from watching this movie (painless, huh?). There are some great
scenes that give you the inside scoop on the Catholic church, the working class of the 1940-50s, and the Italian
tradition of throwing things they don’t want anymore out the window on New Year’s Eve. Subtitles or no, this is
a great film which just conveniently came out on videocassette. Save Young Guns II for next weekend; go for a
little fun and culture with Cinema Paradiso.

Fat Continued from Page 10

Yourself with raisins in hopes that the massive amounts of vitamin C will help, that should have read “One cup
of black currants has 1.5 times more vitamin C than an orange.” And, “cauliflower has more vitamin C than oranges
by weight.” Sorry about the misprints. One more question: Which burns more calories, walking a mile or running a mile?
Answer: Either way; both burn an equal number of calories. Walking just takes longer.

Their sing-song theme: cash away, cash away, cash away all. These people are the grift team. These people plot against
each other. These people lie and then (the grift will get you by and by) one of these people is
set to die. Once you find out, you know the grift is bad. My mama told me forget the grift,
shop around. This film by Steven Frears tells the up and down of grift and all that’s left to say
when it’s done, is that grift is bad, it’s so bad, it’s really bad, it’s so bad let’s make a
movie out of it, it’s soooooo damn bad, the grift is bad, it’s two bads bad. As we walked out
of that theatre, I thought, I can see why they’d make a film about something as bad as grift, it’s
important that people see what grift will get them. It’s bad. The violence was disgusting, but man, the grift can
cut like a knife. John Cusack doesn’t act like a con-man, why can’t he deliver those lines...the grift man, it’s
the grift. Even though a boom microphone actually dips halfway into one of the scenes—ahhhh I knew it was the
grift. You start making money on grift, man, and you’re going down—ask Steve, man, he wrote the book.
