"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"  
The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXII  
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991  
NUMBER 22

Patterson Court Council Suggests More Changes in Alcohol Policy  
By Jared Baxter

During the Spring semester, the Patterson Court Council has been revising its Alcohol Policy. Because of the recent concerns of underage drinking and alcohol abuse, the P.C.C. has furthered its efforts to better control these problems. Changes that were made last semester included a campus-wide talk by Will Keim, party monitors, police officers present at parties sponsored by 3 houses or more, and the most effective action, stopping weekday parties at 11:00 am, and weekend parties at 2:00 am.

Further changes recommended by the P.C.C. for the Eating Houses and Fraternities include: educating their members about the alcohol policy twice a year instead of once a year, containers no larger than 16 oz. allowed on Patterson Court (previously 22 oz.), one party monitor from each House sponsoring the party on duty at all times, police officers hired for any party sponsored by two or more Houses (previously 3), and finally, “no table or similar object will be permitted at the entrance or exit of the designated drinking area.”

The first change is to make sure the new people joining the Houses in the Spring are better educated about the Patterson Court Alcohol Policy. In the past, the Alcohol Policy has been in a booklet the Freshmen receive before coming down to the Court. Usually, this was skipped over and not read. This way, after the Freshmen join a House, they will be better educated about the policies.

The 16 oz. change is being made because 22 oz. sounds like a large amount, and 16 oz. cups are the convention on the Court anyway. (All of these changes were made after consulting the law firm of the Trustees of Davidson College. Harrison Marshall ’79, a lawyer in the firm, was the liaison and proved to be a very helpful resource. It was Marshall’s concern that 22 oz. sounded like a gross amount.)

The two-party-monitors requirement was made to help ensure safety at parties. A problem experienced in the past was that of a monitor having to leave the party because someone was hurt and then having no monitor on duty. This way, there will always be at least one back-up monitor, and for larger parties (with 3 or more Houses) there will be a better monitor-to-partier ratio. Additionally, increased House Monitors would reduce the number of people driving while under the influence of alcohol.

Police officers will be hired for any party sponsored by two or more Houses because they have proved very effective at parties sponsored by three or more Houses. The parties are calmer, fights are less frequent, and the party atmosphere is generally safer.

The final change is probably the most important as far as culpability on the part of the Houses and College is concerned. Harrison Marshall explained to the P.C.C.

See "Alcohol" on Page 3Thomas of B.U.
By Tom Koonce

The Davidson College English department has hired a new teacher for the 1991-1992 school year. Harry Thomas, currently an assistant English professor at Boston University, will take over the job that is being vacated by the retirement of Dr. Bliss.

Thomas has taught over fifty courses at Boston. The majority of these courses have been in 20th century British, Irish, and American poetry. He has also taught in ancient poetry, poetic drama, and the Bible. His other interests are Renaissance Literature, Modern Fiction, Composition, and Humanities. Thomas received his B.A. at the University of San Diego and his Ph.D. at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

Thomas has received several awards, including a Seed Grant and Fellowship from the Humanities Foundation while at Boston University. He was also named one of two finalists for Boston’s Metcalf Award for teaching.

Thomas has been working on several books. He is presently editing The Selected Poems of Thomas Hardy for Penguin Books. He is finishing Jake’s Mania, a book on The Sun Also Rises and matters such as anti-Semitism.

Photo by Jay Wiley
Michelle Theideman and Molly Graver

"Take Back the Night" Raises Awareness
By Rob Kelley

Although the crowd that gathered on the Chambers steps last Monday didn’t look that large, when rain forced the event up into the 900 room, the chairs filled quickly and a thick ring of people were left standing behind them.

Co-sponsored by the Committee for Women’s Issues and the Rape Awareness Committee, the first Annual “Take Back the Night” started off Davidson’s Solidarity Week, and organizers expect it to become a yearly event.

Freshman Heather Flint, one of four speakers, described her story. While visiting Princeton University as a prospective, Flint sampled the fraternity row and after being slipped a loaded mixed drink, she began to feel dizzy and decided to leave. She was accompanied by another prospective she did not know but who went to a high school near hers. Stopping off in another fraternity house to use the bathroom, Flint fell asleep in the lounge. Upon waking up an unknown time later, “I was pressed up beneath the sink, and my head was knocking against the pipes. My lower body was still numb from the alcohol, so I just had to watch him [the prospective] rape me.”

Lastly, sophomore Adriana Tavernise and her graduated brother Peter talked about how their lives had been affected by Adriana’s double experiences of being sexually assaulted at age four and raped at age sixteen. “I started wearing very loose-fitting clothing,” Adriana said. “I felt like I had RAPE written all over me. I blamed myself. ‘What was it about me that attracted these people?’” Peter, upon finding out, said, “I...

See "Night" on Page 3

Inside
News:
Professors Bliss and Proctor to Retire. See Page 3.

Campus Living:
Marlo's Last Health Tip! See Page 9.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Opinions:
Two Perspectives On Sexual Violence. See Page 5.