20 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With Freshman Advisors Marlet Gibson and Brendan O'Sullivan

By David Thompson and Jim Carswell

On Thursday, August 15, Freshman Advisors Marlet Gibson and Brendan O’Sullivan took a few minutes out of their busy pre-orientation schedules to talk with The Davidsonian about their roles on campus, the hall counseling experience, and the life of freshmen at Davidson.

Davidsonian: What exactly does being a freshman advisor entail, and what drew you both to the experience?

O’Sullivan: In some ways the title “freshman advisor” is really a misnomer. Our primary function was to help select the hall counselors for this year. We go on the retreat with them, and try to help them get their bearings as to what being a hall counselor is all about. We have some input in this year’s training of the hall counselors, and we try to make things work. We are really a resource for the hall counselors, so that they can come to us with some of the problems they face. We can provide them with advice, having been hall counselors ourselves, that’s not straight from the dean of students’ office.

Gibson: I see the freshman advisory position in a very similar light as Brendan does, but in addition to what he said, I think we are there to help the hall counselors adjust to their new roles, just as they help freshmen adjust to Davidson.

Davidsonian: What originally drew you to wanting to act as freshman advisors?

Gibson: I enjoyed being a hall counselor and I recognize the pressures and stress that are involved in the position. I wanted to be able to help people adjust to that. On a more selfish note, I think that a lot of seniors at Davidson become very detached and disconnected from the community, and this is a good way for me to stay in touch with a very diverse group of students.

O’Sullivan: In some ways it was really selfish: the hall counselors are a fun group to be with, and I wanted to be a part of that again. There are some practical things to it, too. My experiences as a freshman and as a hall counselor were all very good ones, and I wanted to be a part of the program again. Having gone through orientation and having been a hall counselor, I have had some insights and observations which I think can be useful. I never had some axe to grind with the way things are run, or anything. You're also working with the dean of students office, and you get to see things from a different perspective. You see things from both the position of an administrator, as well as that of a student. You almost start looking at the college in two different ways. And that’s interesting because you’re not always aware of the other side of many issues when you’re a student here. It opens your eyes a little bit.

Davidsonian: Tell us about that transition in becoming a hall counselor. How do you think you can help this year’s group?

Gibson: Some of it is emphasizing the level of energy that they’ve got to put into it, especially during the first few months. They also need to realize that they should take time out for themselves, and not think that they have to be perfect. They’re human, too.

O’Sullivan: It’s a time when you’re not only handling the freshmen, but also dealing with yourself. You realize a lot of traits about yourself because you’re dealing with thirty freshmen. We can help the hall counselors deal with the feelings of insecurity they experience about the change in their place at Davidson. We can be there and say, “we know; we’ve been through this too. It’s a natural progression of how the year goes along.”

Davidsonian: What changes have you been able to bring about interms to the hall counselor training process?

O’Sullivan: There are no really “world-changing” renovations; but when we went through orientation as hall counselors, we had absolutely no free time. So, by the time the freshmen got here, we were just dead tired. The night before, we were all up late with room condition reports, and that kind of stuff. We tried to push for the hall counselors to have a little more time to move themselves into their rooms, and to get a good night’s sleep, so that when the freshmen come, they can be ready. We also want to put together some sort of hall advisor handbook to give an overview of what the job entails. When we first started, we were kind of clueless, and we figured that if we could write down what we learned, to let people know what the position is, it would be a big help. I think that there could be some more communication between the hall counselors and the dean of students' office. Sometimes, as a hall counselor, you wind up doing your own thing with the hall, and if something happens then, there’s bound to be some tension. As freshman advisors, we can help the hall counselors with that.

Davidsonian: What do you think will be the two greatest challenges for the hall counselors this year?

O’Sullivan: The toughest job for the hall counselors will be to help the freshmen adjust to alcohol. They have to teach the freshmen that if they are going to drink, they have to drink responsibly.

Gibson: They also have to teach the freshmen that they need to take responsibility for their own actions. The hall counselors aren’t supposed to be parents to the freshmen, but they need to help them adjust to being members of this community. Approaching somebody about an alcohol problem or policy violation is probably one of the most difficult things a hall counselor will have to do.

Davidsonian: Do you have any specific plans regarding the alcohol policy, any suggestions for change?

O’Sullivan: Honestly, no. But we have the experience to share with the hall counselors about what really happens with freshmen and alcohol, and we can be there for them. The emphasis is to teach the freshmen how to drink responsibly, and not to make alcohol into some sort of taboo. Like Marlet said, freshmen need to be held accountable for their actions, and understand what Dr. Kuykendall is talking about in his “Freedom of Responsibility” speech. Hall counselors can help the freshmen learn respect for their hallmates and for the community at large.

Davidsonian: Do you think that you can influence the character of the freshman class? Are there certain traits about last year’s freshmen that make you think any certain points need to be emphasized to the new students from the very first?

O’Sullivan: I don’t really have a sense of last year’s freshman class. I have a good sense of my hall, but you can’t expect to get a feel for 400 people.

Gibson: You get to know your hall extremely well, and that’s about it. The hall counselors really need to keep the energy high for the first few months, and emphasize the community-building skills from the start. Freshman halls can be so easily fragmented.

Davidsonian: What do you suggest to the sophomores who are considering applying for hall counselorship next year? What does the school look for?

O’Sullivan: I guess the best thing I can suggest is to be active in the Davidson community. Participate in what’s going on around here: athletically, academically, and through extra-curricular activities. That way you have something to offer the freshmen about making the transition to Davidson. But it’s vague, you can’t like go out and do “hall counselor push-ups” or something.

Gibson: It’s a highly subjective and individual selection process. You can’t say that we looked for a checklist of traits.