THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991 7

Davidson Arts

Kiss Me Kate: Coming Soon To Hodson Hall

By Meg Kendall and Leigh McKeever

Following fall break, Davidson will be celebrating the 100th anniversary of the renowned playwright Cole Porter with the production of his 1948 musical Kiss Me, Kate. After studying at both Yale and Harvard, Porter began a career that spanned seventy-three years and countless plays, films, musicals, and songs. His more popular productions include Around the World in Eighty Days, a joint production with Orson Welles, Les Girls, Anything Goes, and Red, Hot and Blue! Kiss Me, Kate, based on the play by Bella and Samuel Spewack, was the longest-running musical of its time in New York with 1,077 performances to its credit. By 1965, the script had been translated into eighteen foreign languages. It was the first American musical to play in Vienna, Germany, Iceland, Poland, Yugoslavia, Italy, Belgium, Hungary, Switzerland, and Czechoslovakia. Critics welcomed Kiss Me, Kate with open arms. Robert Gar- 

See "Kiss" on page 9.

Story Magazine Sponsoring Short Fiction Competition

Davidson students, warm up your pens and word processors. Story magazine is putting on a writing competition, and if one of us wins, we might even move us up in next year’s USN&WR poll! The rules and such are below.

Smith-Corona and Story have teamed up for the 1992 Story College Short Fiction Competition. Story, the magazine that first published Truman Capote, Carson McCullers, J.D. Salinger, and other legendary writers, is continuing its tradition as the magazine of discovery for promising new writers with this college writing competition. Smith-Corona will be its sponsor. The 1992 Competition grand-prize winner will be awarded $500 cash and a new Smith Corona 8000LT laptop personal word processor. A Smith-Corona PWP 3200 personal word processor will go to the second place winner, and a Smith-Corona PWP 1200 to third. Seven additional manuscripts chosen as Honorable Mentions will receive Certificates of Merit. All winning manuscripts will be considered for publication in Story. If published, the writers will receive $250 on acceptance.

The Story College Fiction Competition is open to all students, graduate or undergraduate, who are currently enrolled in college. Only original, unpublished manuscripts consisting of 1500 to 5000 typed words will be accepted from each entrant. The $12 entry fee includes a one-year subscription to Story. Entries must be postmarked by midnight, December 31, 1991.

Story, founded in 1931, featured some of the finest writers of this century. Published irregularly until 1967, it was re-launched in 1989 by F&W Publications. Each issue, Story offers over 100 pages of short stories by writers on the brink of their careers, as well as well-known authors such as Joyce Carol Oates, Bobbie Ann Mason, Tobias Wolf, and Hortense Calisher. For additional information about the 1992 Story College Short Story Competition, please send a self-addressed stamped envelope to Story, 1507 Dana Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45207.

Cabe Loring: Sitting in the Back Row

The Original Batman

Greetings from the back row of the Classic Cinema. This article is for the people out there who like to have a beverage and enjoy films that are so dumb they’re hilarious. If you are one of those super-intellectual people like my mother, who always says “that can’t really happen!” please stop reading now. This article is dedicated exclusively to those movie classics that may have been forgotten, not due to the fact they are not memorable but instead because those stupid Hollywood producers cannot recognize true cinematic genius when they see it. These cretinsgive money only to the big names, as with the film Mermaids. I staggered out of the theatre the night I saw that one with a bad taste in my mouth. And it wasn’t just me—I know others who hated it as well. If Cher and Winona Ryder had consented to act in Son of Godzilla, though, we would have had an epic classic of the magnitude of Ben Hur on our hands. But simply put, the movie is amazing. And it really is not that trashy, in that it had a high budget and most of the jokes are actually clever and indicative of the times in which the movie was originally released. The plot consists of the Joker, Penguin, and the Riddler combining forces to take over the world by using an instant Scotch distiller to dehydrate the World Security Council. Of course, Batman and Robin are guaranteed to do their finest to try and save the world, in the process solving several difficult riddles. Special treats abound. First of all, you get to see the Bat-Helicopter (which is sort of queer), the Bat-Motorcycle (which is, given, a souped-up Harley), and the Bat-Boat, which is one of the coolest things I have ever seen and which sounds like an eighteen-wheeler with its muffler distorted in some horrible manner. Also, there is a dolphin that hurls himself in front of a torpedo to sacrifice its own life for the Dynamic Duo. And just when the aquatic surprises seem to end, a shark bites Batman’s leg for two whole minutes, and he doesn’t even...

(Matt Bumstead: Whistlin' Dixie)

Well, folks, it’s finally that time. After this last little set of predictions and pearls of wisdom (yeah, whatever), it will finally be time to kick back and watch the best night country music can offer. In two days, CBS will air the 25th annual CMA awards (9 p.m. EST); and I hope, after all this hype and hot air, that some of you can’t help but anticipate them with eagerness, that you also are waiting to find out who will win. But, before that, we've got five more categories to review!

Best Vocal Group: Alabama, Diamond Rio, Kentucky Headhunters, Restless Heart, Shenandoah. Restless Heart is too low...

Mark O’Connor’s record is a joy to listen to, full of great vocals and the best in instrumentals; but Randy and George will deservedly be the crowd favorite on “A Few Old Country Boys”. The latter is the best record—appealing in lyrics and sound to all as a great country song; and the star quality involved may give it the push it needs for the victory. But people would love to see Dolly win another award (and Ricky win something), and O’Connor’s assembly of stars is almost too good to deny.

Who should: Randy and George
Who will: Randy and George (?)

Single of the Year: “Don’t Rock the Jukebox”, Alan Jackson; “Don’t Tell Me What to Do”, Pam Tillis; “Here’s a Quarter”, Travis Tritt; “Pocket Full of Gold”, Vince Gill. All of these are great songs, deserving of recognition. Gill’s is the only slow song, but it was a slow song with which he won this category last year (and a Grammy). That’s all the space I'll waste talking about this one; if Garth...