THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991 7

From Fair Weather Friend to Full-Fledged Fan:
The True Confessions of a Justified Bravehead

By Ross Sloop

“When it rains, it pours.” As a kid I would go to Atlanta Braves games with my uncle. The tradition was to stick around after the game and watch the grounds crew draw the protective tarp over the infield. You know, the big tarp they used to have with the Morton salt girl that read, “when it rains, it pours.”

Just as the defeats have been raining down steadily for the past eight years, now the victories are beginning to pour in. Last week witnessed the long-awaited return of America’s Team to the top of baseball’s toughest division. The Braves carried a two-game lead over the Dodgers into the weekend. And for the first time since I’ve been a Braves fan, the boys from Atlanta begin September number one.

True, I’ve only been a Braves fan for about four months now, but I consider myself to be a pretty darn good one. Since returning to Davidson, I’ve wasted hours in Belk lobby with a handful of loyal souls, gluing my eyes to WTBS.

Being a Braves fan is more than just a good way to ignore studying. It is a wave that people must catch. First place! How long will it last? How long will it be before an Atlanta team again enjoys a view from the top? Halley’s comet only comes every 72 years, and I like to see it when it does.

And I don’t want it to be 72 years before Atlanta can again bask in the glow of a divisional championship.

Okay, you may be asking yourself why my article sits on this page, rather than in the sports section. One should not reduce what the Braves are doing this season to a mere sports story. Consider the socio-economic aspect of the Braves being in first place.

Never before has a baseball team gone, in one year, from dead last place to first. This is a genuine rags to riches story. Not since Cinderella or maybe Ted Turner himself has something emerged from such humble beginnings.

If Desert Storm was a confidence booster for the American people, what must they think of the Braves? In a country trying to pull itself out of a recession, Terry Pendleton, Ron Gant, and David Justice are an inspiration to us all. Those guys should be made national heroes. Well, maybe not in Los Angeles.

“Go Braves!...and take the Falcons with you.” No longer will these bumper stickers littering hundreds of sarcastic Atlantans’ back fenders be insulting. Go indeed. The Atlanta Braves are going straight to number one, and I wouldn’t mind a bit if they took the Falcons and the Hawks in the same direction.

As I said, I’ve only been a Braves fan for four or five months. It must just be a strange coincidence that my interest has picked up at the same time that my team begins to win. Fair-weather friend? Who, me? Okay, maybe.

But Tom Glavine, Sid Bream, and Otis Nixon have done something much more important than turn me into a Braves fan. After this season I feel that I will be able to call myself a full-fledged baseball fan. So that next year even if the Braves stink I can root for the Reds or the Dodgers or whoever else might happen to be good.

But for the month of September at least, join me down in Belk lobby, kick back, and root root root for America’s Team. Go Braves!

the Davidson Experience:

Rob Hughes '93
Yeah, I think it’s at least something worth seriously looking into. WDAV doesn’t really offer too much as far as being student-run (to my knowledge), and I think involvement with an FM station could be a great part of -

Gregg Sartiano '94
The demand is there, both for listening and production. As far as the money situation, benefits have already been held, and the overall cost is not too steep anyway. Besides, another outlet in media arts is definitely something this campus could use.

Bryan Bayles '92
It’s difficult to say at this point. A lot will depend on logistics - where the money will come from, etc. However, an FM station offers the potential to be not only an outlet for news, updates, campus communication, etc., but also a means by which music can be put to more meaningful use than the shallow drivel we’re used to on larger stations which are dictated by corporate ethics.

In recent months, several students and certain faculty members have been exploring the possibility of expanding W.A.L.T., the student-run radio station, to FM broadcast capability. Our reporter asked students this week for their thoughts on the issue.

Jennifer Reid '94
Yes. WALT would be a great way to appeal to the musical tastes of another group of students (in addition to WDAV) and could be more student-oriented. Great idea.

David O'Brien '93
Well, most students already have AM listening ability. Unfortunately, no one really listens. Unless the school has a plan to increase their audience why pay for something that has gone unused!

Robert Blake
"Everyone you meet has two things: an opinion, and a rectum. The trick is to make sure that the one fits into the other."
Keep yours in a more comfortable place: write for Opinions. Call Peter Fisher at -6587