THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991 Sports 13

By Bruce Page

Davidson beat Winthrop College 59-42 in Belk Arena Wednesday night. The Wildcats’ trapping defense caused the Eagles to shoot only
38% from the field for the game. Winthrop’s 42 points was the lowest point total by a Davidson opponent since
the 1986 Southern Conference Tournament final, in which the ‘Cats outscored Marshall 42-40 and advanced to the NCAA Tournament.

Davidson scored first in the game and never trailed as they jumped out to a 32-22 halftime lead. Freshman Janko
Narat led the way for the Wildcats in the first half, scoring 10 points on 4 of 7 shooting. Several
times Narat had the crowd on its feet cheering for his creative shots.

Davidson came out strong in the second half, led by junior transfer Jeff Chapin. Chapin finished the game with a
career-high 14 points and grabbed 5 rebounds, 4 of them on the offensive end. Freshman James Marsh pulled down a
game-high 12 rebounds and scored 8 points. The Wildcats forced 22 Winthrop turnovers, led by as many as 20 points,
and coasted to the victory.

After the win, head coach Bob McKillop had this to say of his team: “It’s the story of our season.
We’re getting better and better.”

YSSC Practice Coordinators Sign-Ups Begin From February 18-25 in the Union.

Men's Tennis Faces Demanding Schedule For New Season

By Robert Grubb

The men’s tennis team has traditionally been one of the strongest teams at Davidson. Coach Jeff Frank’s 328-158-1 record makes
him the 16th winningest active Division I coach, and he has never posted a losing record. But Frank’s 18-season streak
may be on the line this year, as the Wildcats face what may be their toughest season to date.

Joining the Big South Conference puts a strain on the schedule because of the seven required conference matches. Conference play,
in addition to Davidson’s usual tough early season fare of ACC teams and other large schools, will mean that the
‘Cats will have to play consistently well all year to have a successful season.

“Our schedule is the hardest we’ve ever had,” said Frank. “We’ve added teams like Virginia Commonwealth, but because of the
conference requirements we had to drop schools like Pfeiffer and Catawba, that we have always done well against.”

Junior Joey Manibo will rotate with others for the fifth and sixth positions.

“It’s easy to get motivated to play teams like South Carolina, and after facing teams like them, we won’t be
intimidated by a team like Campbell.”

Things won’t get much easier for Davidson, even after conference play starts. Campbell and Coastal Carolina are new additions to
the Wildcats’ schedule.

The team opened the season recently with a 9-0 defeat at the hands of 6th-ranked South Carolina, but Frank was
not disappointed with the team’s performance.

“I didn’t really expect to win, but the team played well today, which is what I wanted,” he said.Here is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The doubles were closer overall than the singles. Freshmen Ryan Harper and Russell Briggs dropped a second set tiebreaker in
one of the ‘Cats’ closest matches. Said Frank, “I was really happy with the doubles outcomes. Harper and Briggs came
together against a tough, experienced team.” Unfortunately, there is little relief in sight. The ‘Cats dropped a tough 5-3 decision
to Wake Forest Saturday afternoon, and met North Carolina Sunday. Also on the schedule are Virginia and East Carolina. “We
are using the tough early matches to prepare for the conference season,” said Frank. Wake Forest and North Carolina finished
first and second in the conference last year, and will return a majority of their lineups. “Both of them are
very talented and they are led by good foreign players,” said Frank. Aside from Campbell and Coastal Carolina, who are
unknown quantities, the Wildcats should be very competitive in conference play. Davidson defeated Radford, which finished third in the Big
South last year, during the fall season. If the young Wildcat lineup doesn’t become discouraged after the matches against the
big schools, Davidson stands an excellent chance of finishing in the top three in the conference. The success of the
team is largely dependent on the play of Davidson’s young players. The lineup is dominated by underclassmen, with captain Kurtis
Zabell as the only senior who will probably see significant playing time. Zabell, who had an outstanding fall season, will
fill the number three singles slot, and anchors the doubles lineup with partner John Beyer. “Kurtis and John are a
solid doubles combination. They play with confidence and just don’t give much away,” said Frank. Sophomore Albie Varoski leads the
Wildcats’ singles lineup. His play so far in spring practice has been dominant, according to Frank. Varoski also teams up
with Dale Voeks to play number three doubles. Frank plans to put David Jespersen and freshman Chris Parker behind Varoski.
The two remaining singles slots are not definitely filled. “There are about four guys challenging for the five and six
slots, and I want to rotate Joey Manibo, Dave Tonidandel, Russell Briggs, and Beyer in the first few matches to
find out who will play,” said Frank. Briggs and his partner, Ryan Harper, are the number two doubles team. The
team has the potential to have an excellent season, but slumps by any of the key players could have bad
consequences. The Wildcats will also have to play solid doubles, because there will likely be many close matches, the results
of which could hinge on the doubles. This is an area which Frank has emphasized over the past two years,
and hopefully the work will pay off. Frank realizes the difficulty of the season ahead: “We are a young team
and we have our work cut out for us.”

This week’s Woody’s Athlete of the Week is baseball player David Williams, a senior from Simsbury, Connecticut. Williams, a pitcher,
went 7-4 with a 3.73 ERA a year ago in helping the ‘Cats to a 27-23-1 mark. He picked up
where he left off in the season opener Saturday, picking up the win in a 3-2 victory over Coastal Carolina.
The ‘Cats split their first two games against the Chanticleers. Dave’s selection as Woody's Athlete of the Week entitles him
to a free meal for two at Woody’s Restaurant and Tavern, Highway 73 in Cornelius. So Dave, grab a friend
and go chow down.
