14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

Internships
Continued from page 13

been adopted by the College, for better or worse. Different people within the administration have varying views, but Davidson presses
on with a rather implacable definition of what qualifies as academic.

She noted: “Davidson held firm in the sixties when a lot of colleges were abandoning core requirements. It’s not a
faculty that yields to fads. They are a body of academically trained people deciding what this degree means.” For Ross
and many others on the faculty, it means students adhering butt to chair in the library instead of a law
firm.

In the same vein, students here never receive course credit for extra-curricular activities that require inordinate amounts of time. Major
theater productions go ungraded as do service projects and choir performances.

This last point is a particularly troublesome spot. Ross said, “We’re about the only school I know of that doesn’t
give academic credit for singing in the choir.”

Certainly valuable bits of music theory--harmony, contrapuntal lines, etc.--are imparted, but the experience is not an academic one. Prospective crooners
note well.

“You don’t get paid for every good deed you do, every time you go work on a Habitat house. We
don’t give a Psych credit to hall counselors even though they probably learn volumes about adolescent psychology. Credits are like
your salary in another place.”

The debate really goes back to what we as students are here to do, and that involves readin’, ritin’, and
‘rithmetic as well as immersing oneself deeply into the outside community.

Both facets are vitally important, but only one receives recognition on an official College transcript.

“I feel very comfortable with the rigor we have. It’s one of the reasons our students are well-prepared,” Ross said.

Safety

Continued from page 13

I have dealt with these overwhelming emotions and am quite secure now. However, the feeling that I will never get
over was the fact that my privacy was violated in an extreme measure, not for sexual reasons, but for violent
reasons. I was assaulted because I was a woman.

--Sandra Smith (Davidsonian, February 11, 1991)

How American Express helps you cover more territory for less money.

Become a Student Cardmember today and get 3 roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each.

Only the American Express® Card offers an exciting travel program exclusively for students—including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. And
much, much more. Just look at the map and pick the place you’d like to visit. If it’s on your
side of the Mississippi River, you can use a certificate to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross
the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.

You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime—because
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And
the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.

By becoming a Student Cardmember, you’ll also enjoy other benefits from the American Express® Student Privileges™ Program. Such as up
to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month for an entire year absolutely free. And that’s just one example
of how the Card can help you save.

For just $55 a year, the Card gives you all these savings. And it’s easy to apply. Just call us
(have your bank address and account number on hand). What’s more, with our special student offer, it’s easier to get
the Card now while you’re still in school than it may ever be again.

So get the Card. And get ready to cover new territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.

*Minneapolis/St. Paul, St. Louis, and New Orleans are considered cities east of the Mississippi River.

**A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. $3.70
is equal to the rate for a domestic 30-minute night/weekend MCI card-to-card call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for
this service by December 31, 1991.

Membership Has Its Privileges

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX

If you’re already a Cardmember, there’s no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.

Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment
of this offer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines’ performance.

© 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
