Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN. OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1991

&

Nude o MONDAY 8 PM

WE CELEBRATE
continued from page 7 SHIRLEY VALENTINE

Rehims

cized, because they do encourage their members to reveal intimate aspects of themselves. Yes, fulfilling male relationships are achieved by getting naked. Nude activities are seen all around campus and come in many forms. The SAE’s bonding experiences are the boldest - not to be confused with the biggest. They enjoy nude traffic directing in front of their house on Saturday afternoons. The KA’s, expressing a little more modesty, prefer to get naked and bond at Queens College, Heritage USA, and numerous off-campus intersections. True unity comes from learning every part of a fellow member.

Davidson College offers religious brotherhood. Dean Terry, acting as High Priest, holds dinner services at his home twice a month. After taking the sacred pledge of male superiority, and singing the proper Davidson hymn which excludes the word “daughters”, these lucky souls become confirmed members of the Church of Latter Day Men. These men understand the power found through religious affiliation.

Yes, once again the innovative male race has surpassed women. They have attained closeness, intimacy, and empowerment through unique male activities and experiences. As women, we can afford no longer to discuss privately the intimate parts of our lives. We must act now. We must get naked and expose our parts!

TA DEAN KILBOURNE FILM ON THE PORTRAYAL OF WOMEN IN ADVERTISING

“WOMEN at DAVIDSON” A UNION GALLERY PHOTOGRAPHY EXHIBIT BY ALLEN COMPTON

MARCH 14

Kelly Crews is a Senior History major from Oklahoma City, OK

Please Contribute To Inside Art: We Accept Poetry, Prose, Photographs and Just about anything else.

Former Executive Editor Mark Puckett had to be restrained after reading too many "letters to the editor"...

A hearty handshake for the best explanation of this photograph. Leave your submissions at the Union Desk.

After the lobotomy, however, Mark found work with the road company of "Catatonic Santa".

---

March is National Women's History Month. Events Sponsored by the Committee for Women's Issues and Gender Studies Committee.