THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991 13

England

Continued from Page 13

The students we (Marty White and I) met in London were very nice once we got to know them, and they were generally very helpful. The British friendships we made will last a long time. It’s incredibly interesting being immersed in an environment as international as London. One gets a different perspective on world events when the point of view is not always from the White House but from Westminster, Paris, Bonn, Brussels, or wherever. Study abroad is an experience worth taking advantage of.

Photo Courtesy of David Smyth
Juniors Marty White (left) and David Smyth (right) bask in Big Ben's glory after pointing out several grotesque architectural flaws of the edifice.

Photo By Chris Lee

Weather was cold and rainy on the eve of the bombing of Iraq.

Nomad's Horoscope

If today is your birthday, that’s not my problem.

Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
Someone will shoot a rubber band at you, which will hit you in the eye and make your eye water for an hour or two. Scenario features mayonnaise and glitter. Don’t be fooled into thinking that you’re somebody.

Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
Take the eggnog out of the back of the fridge. Christmas is over. Get that tree down. Spotlight on Arbor Day, a day on which we celebrate Arbor and his accomplishments.

Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20):
Your horoscope is that you’re a fish because that’s what a Pisces is.

Aries (March 21-April 19):
Nandishkoff. Zenith beat Sony again. Cycle high in your washing machine. Cycle low in your dryer. Cycle like this, cycle like that, cycle with a wiffle-ball bat.

Taurus (April 20-May 20):
The stars are looking at you and they are laughing so hard they are crying. Bull in picture, but it ain’t Taurus. Avoid your face.

Gemini (May 21-June 20):
If you are a female, expect a tall male with roses on a motorcycle with green eyes. Do not worry, many motorcycles have green eyes. Too many horoscope writers have green eyes, though some have blue depending on the overall genetics involved. Then this whole thing becomes a biological question.

Cancer (June 21-July 22):
Your best friend Harry has a brother Larry. In five days from now he’s gonna marry. You say neato, check your libido as well as your rhyme scheme-o for rhyme overkill-o in a stupid song-o.

Leo (July 23-Aug. 22):
Every churinga, for whatever purpose it may be employed, is counted among the eminently sacred things; there are none which surpass it in religious dignity. Highlight on plagiarizing the last sentence from page 141 of Emile Durkheim’s The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life.

Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
Your momma. Your daddy. Your greasy-greasy granny got a hole in her panty going peep-peep-peep down Sesame Street.

Libra (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
Today, the only word that rhymes with Libra is “zebra”. Also, the word “cerebral” kind of rhymes with Libra. Don’t be alarmed, this means absolutely nothing to anyone anywhere.

Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
Well we’re movin’ on up (to the east side). Movin’ on up (to the east