8

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

Steamroller

Continued from page 7

sions to printmaking. “The scale is greater, and the process more fun.” Owens stresses that he is not a performance artist, but the crowd gathered for his work certainly added a social element to the work. “It ‘de-analizes’ the printing process,” he mentioned, bringing it out of the studio, away from nitpicky detail work. Furthermore, Owens says that during the course of his career his work has exposed him to many interesting people working in junkyards and construction. The process doesn’t always work. Eyewitness English Professor Gill Holland commented on the recent steamroller printmaking session. “The first few tries were failures, but all of a sudden it started getting interesting.” Owens himself says that failure is critical in making good art. Only by risking failure can the process truly teach the artist anything and be a rewarding experience. On this same subject Owens commented that he feels that his Davidson students might learn more if they were willing to risk more. He observed that technically the students are highly capable, but tended to be very safe and reserved in the images they choose to create.

Owens credits his own influences to be Abstract Impressionism, earth works, and other process-oriented art. He recently has been reading Zen philosophy and is interested in the emphasis on the importance of one immediate, frozen moment in time. But to meddlesome questions about “influences” and “favorite literature” Owens is quick to offer a favorite aphorism that “talking about art is like looking for fish tracks in a dry river bed.”

Owens will exhibit recent work in the Davidson Art Gallery in Chambers during the month of January. The exhibit is tentatively entitled “Random Order”.

ALIAS VICTOR THE BEAR

Is Victor the Bear reduced to this?

He used to be in the big time; as witness his photo/credentials, and not that long ago: clowning with Bozo, interviewing Larry King and -- my God, is that Debbie Reynolds? Cherokee Chief Ripyalloff chants 9 to 5: Get your picture made with V the B, White Eyes!

Who’s so sure he’s reduced?

Victor (real name Caleb) might savor retirement in Smokey’s mountains green, panhandling down the valleys wild, and he might not. What’s sure is, when the season’s last picturee’s been goose-fleshed, Victor returns to his unwheeled trailer with the demode Ohio plates and curls for the winter around what’s left of him to bear
--J.S. Winkler

Mon., Nov. 4

1991-92 Concert Series: acclaimed flutist David Fidele performs in Hodson Hall at 8:15 p.m. Cost is $5.

Stormy Monday Blues Night: IPC brings another great blues band to the 900 Room at 10(?) p.m.

Thurs., Nov. 7

Richard Masta, the artist featured in the Art Gallery in Chambers, at 8 p.m. in the Gallery.

Small Chamber Ensembles: student performances of chamber music in Tyler-Tallman Hall at 8:15 p.m. Free

Sat., Nov. 9

Running: Si ceeaseee oe

ARTS CALENDAR

STORMY MONDAY BLUES NITE!

TONIGHT, NOV. 4

Steady Rollin’ Bob Margolin

Ex-Guitarist for Muddy Waters Chicago Blues

8:30 pm 900 Room Admission $1.00 -- Bring ID Sponsored by L-P.C.

Introducing

T-Shirts

ALBERT EINSTEIN

Also Available:

Mozart, Beethoven, Poe, T. S. Eliot, Whitman, Thoreau & More

DAVIDSON

126 S. Main St. 892-6841