MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991 Sports 13

Basketball Runs Past Campbell Camels 73-58
By Larry Dagenhart

Wednesday night, the Davidson basketball team showed just how tough its defense could get by running past the Camels of Campbell University 73-58. Despite a slow start by both teams, the game almost turned into a blowout. The Wildcats jumped out to a quick 23-10 lead by scoring on six straight possessions, highlighted by a James Marsh steal and monster jam. Meanwhile, Davidson’s tenacious zone defense held Campbell to only 29 percent shooting in the first half, and the ‘Cats took a 33-22 halftime lead.

The first few minutes of the second half saw the Camels claw their way back and cut Davidson’s lead to only three at 38-35. After a much-needed timeout, though, the Wildcats got the ball to Jeff Chapin, who scored on three consecutive possessions (including two three-pointers) en route to an 8-1 tear of his own. From there, Davidson never looked back. Although Campbell got as close as seven points around the two-minute mark, this one was secure thanks to the Camels’ poor shooting and the Wildcats’ relentless pressure.

Davidson put four men in double figures with Chapin, Janko Narat, and Jason Zimmerman each scoring 12 points. Leading the scoring for the ‘Cats was Pat Holloway, who contributed 14. “We couldn’t make the layups and we’re not a comeback team,” commented Campbell coach Bill Lee after his team’s defeat. Campbell finished the game shooting only 36 percent compared with Davidson’s 52. “They (Davidson) did the things they needed to in order to win,” he added.

Campbell was certainly not without a star. Freshman Joe Spinks, who was averaging just over 12 points per game, stepped up Wednesday night and poured in a career-high 23 points for the Camels and grabbed seven rebounds. “We’re certainly glad to have him for four years,” said coach Lee.

Davidson coach Bob McKillop, gleaming after the big conference win, had good things to say about his Wildcats, especially Jeff Chapin. “Jeff gave us a terrific lift off the bench. We planted James (Marsh) down low and Jeff got two three-pointers.” McKillop noted that “the defense created the opportunities” on the offensive end for his team. Still, McKillop found room for improvement, “We’ve hit a glitch—the three-minute period just before the first half.” Realizing that Davidson could have been ahead.

Continued on Page 14

Men's Tennis Team Continues To Take Early-Season Lumps
By Robert Grubb

The Davidson men’s tennis team continued to struggle through the early part of its schedule this weekend, suffering losses to East Carolina and Virginia. Davidson was unable to end its ACC drought Saturday against the regionally ranked Cavaliers. The Wildcats performed much better in Friday night’s six-hour battle against ECU. Davidson was only down 4-2, going into the doubles portion of the match on Friday, but was hampered by Joey Manibo’s default due to a twisted ankle. David Jespersen and Russell Briggswere responsible for the ‘Cats’ two victories. The outlook was still good for Davidson after Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer won a tough match at number one doubles. Zabell and Beyer were up 5-0 in the first set tiebreaker but went on to lose the set. Not discouraged, though, the pair rallied to win the second set easily. In the third, Beyer and Zabell again found themselves in trouble, down 5-3 with their opponents serving. The team came up with a key service break and went on to win the set and match in a tiebreaker. The other two doubles teams were unable to come through with wins and the Cats went down 6-3. Nonetheless, coach Jeff Frank was very pleased with the team’s effort. “This was probably our best match this year,” said Frank. “The guys played hard and smart, and kept fighting the whole way, which is what I want them to do against tough teams like this.”

Davidson continued to fight on Saturday afternoon but were outgunned 6-0 against Virginia. Jesperson and Beyer both played well, taking their opponents to three sets. Albie Varoski lost again at number one singles, but Frank was quick to point out the quality of opponents which Varoski has faced. “Albie has been playing huge hitters, a lot of foreign guys,” said Frank. “The guys Albie has been playing are symptomatic of the trend toward recruiting foreign talent, which is hard to compete with.”

Frank has been happy with the team’s play so far this season but was concerned that the tough schedule would discourage the players. Davidson played Virginia Commonwealth on Sunday, but results were unavailable at press time. The ‘Cats’ next match is on Monday, March 4, against Kenyon. Frank plans to use the time off to finalize the doubles lineup. “We have to put the best teams out on the court because it’s so important for us to win our doubles matches,” said Frank.

Baseball Drops Two Of Three To Camels
By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson baseball team managed just one win over the weekend in a three-game series with Big South rival Campbell at Buies Creek, NC. The ‘Cats took Friday’s opener 5-2 behind the pitching of senior Dave Williams (3-0). Tim Kerns’ 6th inning single, which scored Rick Bender, put Davidson ahead to stay. Ralph Isernia homered for the Wildcats.

In the second game of Friday’s twinbill, the Camels’ 5-run 6th inning erased a 7-3 Wildcat lead and gave Campbell an 8-7 win. Mike Liebdzinski hit his first home run of the season in a losing cause.

In Saturday’s finale, Davidson took a 6-5 lead in the top half of the 10th inning but fell to defeat 7-6 when Campbell came back to score 2 runs in the bottom half. Rick Bender went 4-for-6 with 2 RBIs and a home run for the ‘Cats. Davidson is now 5-7, 4-5 in Big South competition.