THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Theater Department Presents A Classic Broadway Musical

By Jason Bertsch

The Davidson College Theatre and Music Department have begun rehearsals for the fall production “Kiss Me, Kate.” The celebrated writer and composer of the musical, Cole Porter, passes down to Davidson a classic piece of American theatre, music, and dance. Incidentally, the play celebrates the 100th anniversary of Cole Porter’s birth. The Broadway hit musical promises to provide Davidson with a most exciting and fun-filled set of performances.

A cast of 35 Davidson students was chosen after lengthy auditions which included script readings, singing, and dancing. The varied cast ranges from freshmen to seniors. The diverse group of actors, actresses, singers, and dancers are now working six nights a week with each other. On October 10th the long hours of rehearsals will be repaid to our fellow students by the gasping, laughing, and cheering of the audience.

Dr. Barber, director of the play and theatre department professor, is already in full swing of the production. Piecing together the musical, Dr. Barber is working in conjunction with Dr. Saunders (Music Direction), Terilynne Parker (Choreographer), and Dr. Gardner (Scenic Design). Dr. Barber admits there are some obstacles to be faced in the upcoming weeks. Limited facilities and time pose difficulties that are already putting pressure on the production’s staff, cast, and crew. Barber, however, is quick to point out that a “marvelous cast” is quickly meshing together. The talented cast are not to receive all the applause in October, as they are working under the direction of an experienced and knowledgeable staff. Dr. Barber directed his first play in 1953, and has been directing in Davidson since 1963. Dr. Barber has been waiting for the opportunity to direct “Kiss Me, Kate,” which he claims is a “delightful story.” No doubt, Davidson should be prepared for a theatre experience not to be forgotten.

The musical, written in the 1940s, is a story of quarreling actors presenting William Shakespeare’s “Taming of the Shrew.” Cole Porter’s musical portrays a “play within a play.” That is, the actors are sometimes on stage acting out the scenes of Shakespeare’s work; other times we see the actors behind stage conversing, fighting, or romancing. The musical alternates between the Italian Renaissance and the American mid-twentieth century. Lively dance and song fill the show from beginning to end. “Another Op’nin, Another Show,” “So in Love,” “Brush Up Your Shakespeare,” are only a few of the songs that have “moved into the classic repertoire of Broadway show tunes.”

Photo By Mary McNeill
A few of the stars of this fall's production of Kiss Me Kate: Reid French, Brad Griffin, Timisha Barnes, and Allison Wright.

Davidson Arts Calendar

Tuesday Sept. 10
DCTV: 8 a.m.- 5 p.m. in the Union

Wed. Sept. 11
J.C. Smith Film Series: Killer of Sheep - 3 p.m. at J.C. Smith, also at 7 p.m. at Afro-American Cultural Center (discussion following)

Thursday Sept. 12
Concert: Southern Culture on the Skids - 10 p.m. at the Park Elevator
Cinema Classics: North by Northwest at 9:45 p.m. in the 900 Room
Outsider Art Exhibit opens at Christa Fait

Brooks Continued from page 9.

on vocals throughout the album also flirts with understating the backup instruments that are so vital to creating a powerful music entity, no matter how strong the voice. These are, however, minuscule observations - not complaints; the album is fantastic. Ropin’ The Wind is beautifully executed and well-paced. “Rodeo,” as I have stated, is already on its way to being a massive hit; with this new single, Garth asserts his firm command over the country music field with a dynamite performance on a marvelously well-written tune.on the set fit into this sort of rowdy, gut-busting formula than on his previous releases. He performs them like no one else can; but his career was founded on heart-wrenching ballads that he filled with feeling and used to stir the listeners (ballads are far more popular in country, outselling faster songs by miles). The greatest risk on this album is, therefore, that he performs only two or three songs of this type on the album. Along those lines, Brooks shows an admirable courage in departing from the mainstream on several songs that are far from his typical neo-traditionalist format; the lack of this type of touching, moving song is, nevertheless, the album’s one shortcoming. Key songs to look for (after one listening, mind you) include “What She’s Doing Now”, a powerful emotional lament that almost fulfills the quota for ballads on its own. Garth’s performance is convincingly heartfelt and stirring; this song may very well hit the radio hard. “Mama Loves Men” is another solid creation with a driving, fast-paced melody and catchy lyrics; but its theme (Mama is axed by jealous Daddy) may prove a little too harsh for radio. I could go on and mention every song on the release, for each one is superbly composed and performed and stands firmly on its own. I will, however, single out the delightful “Bury The Hatchet”, another song, bluesy and feisty, that has great radio potential. Also impressive about this collection is that seven of these ten songs, including the three I have just noted, were co-written by Brooks, who has already hit with “If Tomorrow Never Comes”, “The Thunder Rolls”, “Unanswered Prayers”, “Much Too Young”, and “Not Counting You”. Garth Brooks’ Ropin’ The Wind is a success - arguably as good as his previous two releases. He deserves gold stars all the way around - from his singing and writing efforts to his courageous and daring song choices. The odds are stacked heavily against him to remain on top for much longer; but if so lofty a goal as to remain the one to beat is in any way attainable, then Brooks has put his best boot forward.

American Collegiate Poets Anthology
International Publications
National College Poetry Contest

International Publications is sponsoring a National College Poetry Contest open to all college and university students desiring to have their poetry anthologized.

CASH PRIZES will go to the top five poems:
$100 First Place
$50 Second Place
$25 Third Place
$20 Fourth Place
$20 Fifth Place

AWARDS of publication for ALL accepted manuscripts in our popular, handsomely bound and copyrighted anthology, AMERICAN COLLEGIATE POETS.

Deadline: October 31

CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS:
1. Any student is eligible to submit his or her verse.
2. All entries must be original and unpublished. Poems previously printed in student publications are acceptable.
3. All entries must be typed, double-spaced, on one side of the page only. Each poem must be on a separate sheet and must bear, in the upper left-hand corner, the NAME and ADDRESS of the student as well as the COLLEGE attended. Put name and address on envelope also! (Alumni Welcome!)
4. There are no restrictions on form or theme. Length of poems up to fourteen lines. Each poem must have a separate title. (Avoid “Untitled”!) Small black and white illustrations welcome.
5. The judges’ decision will be final. No info by phone!
6. Entrants should keep a copy of all entries as they cannot be returned. Prize winners and all authors awarded publication will receive a gold-seal certificate ten days after the deadline. I.P. will retain one-time publication rights for accepted poems. Foreign language poems welcome.
7. There is an initial $3 registration fee for the first entry and a fee of one dollar for each additional poem.
8. All entries must be postmarked not later than the above deadline and fees be paid, cash, check or money order, to:

INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS
P.O. Box 44044-L
Los Angeles, CA 90044