20 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

The editors, ever sensitive to the tensions and tribulations on campus, are striking back at all this nastiness with a
dose of silliness. We're reprinting this tidbit from last year's Davidphonian in order to give everyone a much-needed laugh before
exams. Thanks to Richard Terry for his sense of humor.

THE BACK END INTERVIEW

Richard Terry: A Man With a New Hallucination

The Davidphonian learned recently that Richard Terry, director of Residence Life here at Davidson, has changed his vision, the one
he described in the now-famous “Back Page Interview” with The Davidsonian a few months ago. Dick, as he is called
by most students, was gracious enough to sit down and talk about it with star reporters Joe Mommah and G.
Datty last week. Here is a partial transcript of the interview.

Davidphonian: Tell us about your new vision, Dick.

Dick: Well, a lot of things have changed since I told The Davidsonian that stuff about people being able to
sleep peacefully and privately whenever they want to. The bottom line is that we’ve totally scrapped that idea. Will Terry,
to whom, by the way, I am not related, told me that the faculty didn’t think students should be sleeping
anyway. You probably already know that they are all committed to having students studying twenty-four hours a day. And, frankly,
I have to say I agree. I mean, this is a college.

Davidphonian: So, Dick, where did you go from there?

Dick: We started tossing around a few ideas in the office a couple of months ago. I came up with
“a campus with a turkey in every pot and a car in every driveway.” There were a lot of problems
with that one, though. As you know, Bob Collins wants to tow every car, and the whole thing seemed...

Dick: It’s really nothing to be admired. I’m a residence life officer; that’s what I do. And let me add
that I’ve run this idea past Will, and he’s behind me all the way. We think we’ve come up with
an alternative to my old vision that the whole campus will be able to live with. For the students, there
is the security that comes from knowing that someone is really committed to helping you, to making your life that
much easier. For the faculty, there is the assurance that all students, no matter where they live, will be able
to study in a well-lit atmosphere. As for me, I’ve found a new passion, a new driving force in my
life of which I can truly say I am proud.

Davidphonian: Congratulations... On a lighter note, what can you tell us about other plans for the Residence Life Office?

Dick: Well, we’re going to continue some practices that we have gotten really good at. One of those is keeping
the bathrooms stocked with toilet paper. I might mention that I almost made that my vision, but we felt that
it would be too open to ridicule from the students. In addition, the janitors are going to keep on collecting
anything and everything that people leave out in the halls. All that clutter could be a real hazard in the
event of a fire, and we are completely committed to the safety of all the students. Plus, I myself have...

We gave some thought to commandeering the west wing of Chambers to make into dorms, but with all these advantages,
the Motel 6 idea really cannot go wrong. Plans took longer to finalize than we expected, but work will definitely
begin next week. The contract with the construction company has a clause that provides for a monetary punishment for every
day that the job goes over schedule. So all those who live near Patterson Court can expect to hear construction
cranking up about five or so every morning the next few days before school ends. It should be the same
as it has been for the seniors being woken up by construction on the new apartments every morning, only a
little earlier. The students don’t have anything to worry about, though. I’m giving them first priority in my vision, so
that they will have light to study by at that early hour.

Davidphonian: It sounds like you guys over there in the Residence Life Office are really working hard.

Dick: Well, no, not really. It’s a popular misconception around Davidson that what we do in Residence Life is really
important and pressing. Actually, we have a lot of time to kill around the office, and I just decided to
get off my buns and get some stuff done this school year.Judge the results for yourselves. Oh, and let me
add that I hope I’m not shocking too many of your readers by revealing that our office is not dealing
with crises 24 hours a day. It’s just that, "Did I forget to check the bulbs on 2nd Watts today?”
sort of extravagant. Plus, one guy in the office was sure he had heard something like that before. We had
to go all the way back to the drawing board. It was pure hell.

Davidphonian: That goal seems as noble as your last one. Too bad it didn’t work out.

Dick: Yes, I agree, but I’m really excited about the new idea we finally settled on. Here it is: I
have a vision of a campus where every light comes on every time a person flips the switch. Too many
times a person on this campus will go into a room and try to turn on a light, only to
be thwarted in the attempt. That just is not fair, and it is the job of a residence life director
to ensure fairness for all students. So I have taken on the mission of making sure that every time a
bulb burns out there is someone there to replace it as soon as possible. I am a realist, though. I
know this goal will not be reached easily, but, by God, I’m going to try! Through commitment to my goal
and with the cooperation of the students of Davidson, I truly believe that my vision will become a reality by
the end of the 1991-92 academic year. Of course, all the pieces will have to fall into place, but I
have faith.

Davidphonian: God, I admire you. "I'm supposed to be a man with a vision; this might make me lose some
credibility around here." I picked up a couple of good pairs of socks and a nice red, almost-new bicycle, and
RLO has really supplemented its budget through its fencing operation down on Independence Boulevard. Here’s the really big news, though:
we are working on plans with Motel 6 to construct a new 100-unit building right in the middle of Patterson
Court!

Davidphonian: Wow! Tell me more!

Dick: Well, you are probably familiar with all the problems we cause for rising sophomore girls. You know, we always
wait until the middle of June to give them final notice that we are not going to offer them housing
for the coming academic year and they have to find their own place to live. I got together with Will,
and we decided that we were both pretty darn sick of listening to a bunch of silly girls whine about
the fact that the only places left to rent by that time are in Cornelius. He had some other ideas
about what we could do to them, uh I mean for them, but I finally won him over to the
Motel 6 plan. The list of benefits is endless, I mean, the girls get to live on campus, the college
gets part of the revenue through a special deal with the Motel, and we’ll finally get all those Queens girls
out of Belk. I really hate seeing them leaving when I come into work every day. Now, if they want
to do something immoral with a Davidson guy, they can do it in the proper place, a motel room. "Ohhh,
my reputation! Will's gonna smoke my ass!" Well, only so much work goes into keeping a few college dorms running
smoothly.

Davidphonian: It sounds to me like you are making the most of your opportunity, though.

Dick: Well, when Will Terry offered me this job, he gave me a few words of wisdom: I’ve never told
anyone this before, but he said, “I only gave you this job because I like your name, but that doesn’t
mean you can rest on your laurels for the rest of your career. I want you to go out and
make a difference on this campus!” I’ve taken those words to heart, and, well, I think I’ve done a pretty
darn good job.

Davidphonian: On that note, let’s end this interview. Please, Dick, let me express to you the thanks of the whole
Davidphonian staff, heck, the whole campus, for the great job you do. And, actually, we do understand that you do
work hard.

With that, Dick Terry ran away through the halls of Belk in his quest to find a rebellious light bulb.
We, Joe Mommah and G. Datty, could only sit and think, full of admiration and love for a man who
had stolen our hearts and was destined to steal the hearts of everyone else at Davidson. Watch out, you could
be next!
