16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Lieutenant Colonel Answers Questions About War

LTC John Moncure, Assistant Professor of Military Studies Talks to The Davidsonian About the Initial Air Attack, The Draft, Our Weapons

By Mark Damon Puckett

Q. Would you explain the letter you just received for the sake of this interview?

A. I just received a letter which says that I am allowed to explain Army doctrine, but I am not allowed to speculate because as an active duty officer any speculation I would make might be considered as criticism by an official. On the other hand, I have no problems with answering your question because I can explain the doctrine in a way that makes it applicable to the current situation.

Q. What about our equipment and how much it’s breaking down?

A. I have some close personal information on that subject, having come eighteen months ago from a unit which is now in the desert. Rommel, in World War II, wrote in his notebooks that he expected something on the order of thirty percent of his equipment to be broken at any particular time, just for maintenance reasons. Of course, his flow of spare parts was inhibited somewhat by the British who controlled the Mediterranean. Our machinery is infinitely more complex than those days with computers and all sorts of fancy capabilities. Our tank can move at forty-five miles an hour—with the limits deliberately placed on the engine. This is a fifty-four ton machine. It’s a fifty-four ton computer with all its electronic wizardry in there. And all of it is expensive and very complicated. And it can break. At the same time, when we were issued our M1-A1’s in the 3rd Cavalry, we went through all sorts of training with them, and we took them to the National Training Center, which is the closest to a combat environment that our soldiers have faced. The temperatures rarely got above eighty or ninety or so, and it was in the sand. We took them to the National Training Center in May and the temperature was over 100 degrees every day. Sand and heat do not have an effect on the modern weapons like it did have an effect on older ones. Now, our tanks have been training in Fort Irwin, California in the middle of the Mohave Desert for a decade. Our soldiers are accustomed to the conditions and have learned to deal with the machinery in the desert. Remember, the Iraqi machinery is in the desert too.

Q. What about the Draft? How imminent is it?

A. I have read in the newspaper that there is no plan for a draft. Rather than trying to pretend that I have some knowledge of what people are thinking in high government, we can examine this question with pure logic. If we had a draft and we drafted you today, we’d have to give you a haircut, give you a physical, give you a uniform, and then train you. It would take months before you would be ready to go to war. So, the draft is not an immediate solution to any manpower problem we might have.

Q. Through the news, the media, we see a lot of “what if’s”? Do you think the media has distorted the war? Are people more paranoid than they should be because of it?

A. I think the media are doing fine. They’re examining the same kinds of possibilities that military people and civilian strategists examine. They’re just doing it in a public forum, and all these ideas are important for us as a democratic people to think about because it helps us be informed of the situation.

Q. What about graduates from Davidson? What are they doing there right now?

A. Right now, I suspect they are not engaged in actual combat, except for maybe Rufus Timberlake. He’s an Apache pilot, and the Apache is used doctrinally (see I can work the doctrine in here) to fly beyond the front lines. I heard reports on the news of Apaches being involved in air strikes already. Bob Davidson is in the 101st Airborne. Sherb Sentelle and John Black are in the 82nd Airborne. Those are the most recent graduates who are over there. The 82nd Airborne, doctrinally, is used to insert infantry deep behind enemy lines—usually at critical spots, such as communication centers, headquarters, fort facilities, airfields.

Q. What was the purpose of the air campaign really? If this escalates into a land war—

A. I’d be reluctant to use the words “escalate to a land war.” The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has said that this is a campaign, which has an air component and a ground component. Therefore, it has been the plan all along that at a certain point ground troops will be committed, and that it’s almost inconceivable that we could win the war without ground troops; that is so because an air battle is unlikely to force Hussein to pull troops out of Kuwait. The only thing that’s going to motivate his soldiers to leave Kuwait is the threat of personal harm to them.

Q. Well, let me lead into another question. The fact that they bombed civilian Israeli areas; do we really think hope to influence anything Hussein will do?

A. Well, the evidence of it is the lack of resistance—the lack of Iraqi resistance. There are two interpretations of it: that we’ve paralyzed him, that his commanders don’t know what to do, and they’re not likely to move without instructions. The other possible explanation is that he’s holding some secret weapon in reserve and he’s just waiting for us to expose ourselves, and then he’ll go after us. Only time will tell which one it is.Up until now, in two weeks with this new equipment, we never had under ninety percent of our equipment operational. Ninety percent.

Q. But isn’t that with a civilian corps of engineers and computer specialists?

A. No. No, that was ordinary Joe soldier mechanic. Admittedly, we had much better supply lines at the National Training Center than Rommel did in World War II. In Saudi Arabia right now, we have very good supply lines. We have your uniforms, spend several months to train you to operate some of this complex machinery. This isn’t stuff you pick up and just use, see. Then, we’d have to send you over there, acclimatize you, and integrate you into a combat unit. How long’s that all going to take? Right now basic takes twelve weeks, I believe. If we had the idea that this war was going to last a long time, then I think a return to the Draft might start to loom up as a distinct possibility. The public law that’s in effect now says that anyone who turns twenty during calendar year 1991 will be the first to go. So it begins at twenty and goes up, and at some point it comes back to nineteen, then eighteen. Now you’re talking about millions and millions of people, and in a situation like that the Army would mobilize training divisions to train masses of recruits. One of them is in Charlotte—the 108th Training Division.

Q. What about students at Davidson now who’ve been selected for active duty?

A. We have four seniors that have been selected for active duty. And those are Derrick Willard who was selected for Regular Army Aviation, which means he goes on active duty effective the day of graduation. Mike Peters and David Taylor are both Infantry, and Tracy Perez, who will go into the Air Defense Artillery, then transfer to Military Intelligence. I would be surprised if anything changed their commissioning date.

Q. I guess I’m still stuck on the idea of a Draft, since I’m the age I am.

A. Well, I tried to answer that question in the vaguest way I could by saying that, in the case of a protracted war with large numbers of casualties requiring replacement with no end in sight, the idea of drafting people to replace the casualties becomes a more distinct possibility. And you can draw your own conclusions about how long you think the war’s going to last.

Q. What do you make of the peace demonstrations around campus? And the reaction of certain people in R.O.T.C.?

A. Dissension is part of the American way of doing things, so even if somebody doesn’t agree with me, the fact is simply that dissension is going to happen. I think at this point, regardless of how you feel about whether we should have attacked or when the attack should have happened, the decision has been made to conduct the attack, and the campaign is being prosecuted with the greatest rapidity possible, with the greatest degree of precision and accuracy. This approach will hopefully yield the lowest number of casualties, not just American casualties, but Iraqi casualties as well. By paralyzing their command and control structure, for instance, we induce a certain amount of fear in them, which might make them throw down their arms and surrender. I don’t think anybody has predicted it would go this well. I don’t think the military planners predicted it would go this well.

A. What he’s done is what he promised he was going to do. Apparently, we anticipated that. That’s a big question we’ve all had, but it turns out now that apparently the Egyptians and the Saudis and the United States have come to an agreement that Israeli retaliation against an attack won’t have any influence on the Coalition. Apparently, the Coalition came to an agreement in advance on the subject and asked the Israelis not to attack Iraq, but to let us hit the missiles for them. Even if they attack, it won’t have a major effect. But getting back to the question of the air attack. We had to destroy command and control facilities because that deprived the enemy lower-level commanders from guidance from above. We had to destroy their air forces because when we commit ground concentrations of troops we are exposing them to air attack. So that’s the purpose for the air war in the beginning: to paralyze the enemy command and control structure, to hurt the mobile forces they have behind the front line. The front lines aren’t going anywhere, and that’s why I believe we haven’t attacked them yet. At least for right now we’re not concerned with the front lines because they’re dug in; they’re fixed defenses.

Q. And you do think it did have the paralytic effect it needed?

A. C-5A’s that can hold tons and tons of spare parts. And we have lots of spare parts, so as these machines break, we can fix them. It takes a half-an-hour to pull an engine out of the M-1-A-1 tank. It takes an hour or two, perhaps, to troubleshoot the tank and figure out what’s wrong with it. Then it takes a few hours to fix it. So the turnaround time for repairing tanks is relatively short. That’s why at any given moment a ground tactical commander can count on having at least eighty-five percent of his combat power available to him.

Q. What about the sand and the heat?

A. Well, the tanks that I was talking about we learned to use in the West Texas desert. That was in the spring, so...