8 THE DAVIDSONIAN. OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

EMPOWERMENT --- And A New-Found Hope
By John Patton

On my way back from break in Boston, I was reading The Economist (trying to get back in the right
frame of mind) when I first noticed the amazingly clear view of the landscape. I had never seen New York
City, Washington, or Philadelphia so clearly from an airplane. The view was striking as were several prominent dichotomies disguised on
the ground in the sprawl and bustle of these cities. It appears from the air that all three are almost
perfectly ordered. That order, which from living in Boston I don’t associate with the city, is actually comforting in that
it implies simple logic and organization which are not so apparent at the street level. However, the reality on the
streets of Boston (and I would guess New York and the other cities) is far from comforting.

The other dichotomy occurs most prominently in New York and can be seen from the ground as well as from
the air with equal clarity. It is the vast difference between uptown New York and the Jersey shoreline of the
Hudson and other parts of New York City itself. The indigence of Fort Lee and Newark as well as parts
of the Bronx and Harlem starkly contrasts with the enormous affluence of uptown. It is a glaring indictment of this
half century’s failure of attempts at social reform.

What does this mean? Well, it appears that we stand at a crossroads in domestic welfare policy. The relative failure
of past policies and the recent economic downturn have brought many social issues back to the forefront. Direction and conviction
are needed -- but from where? Empowerment coupled with (1) an even distribution of tax dollars across city, (2) racial
and ethnic lines, (3) lasting enterprise zones, and (4) a renewed emphasis on city-wide equality in the public education system
would be a strong beginning.

What is empowerment? It means changing the underclasses in our cities from people who depend on welfare to people who
depend on themselves. It means tenant-managed and eventually owned housing projects. It means low-interest or interest-free loans to qualified home
buyers. It means a restructured welfare system where recipients are threatened with a cut-off of payments unless they find work,
thereby giving them the impetus to find work. It means guaranteed day care for single mothers if they can overcome
the lure of welfare’s pervasive security. It means federal monies for good job training programs so that these same recipients
and mothers are not abandoned but trained, so they can find these jobs. It means more tax credits for those
earning below a certain level of income, say $15,000. It means empowering inner-city youth to become successful, independent members of
society instead of providing them with welfare’s shelter from reality and responsibility.

Can empowerment do this alone? Clearly not. In fact, a program like this wouldn’t even make it out of committee
in Congress without clauses detailing (1) a foreseeable time when the program’s added fiscal burden would not only be alleviated,
but (2) when money would be saved. Improved education in the ghettos is the key to such a long-term recovery.
American cities must have equitable educational systems. All those educational opportunities that are open to white suburban kids, including extracurricular
activities like sports, need to be opened to blacks and other minorities as well.

How? The way to start is to redistribute tax dollars so that each community in a particular state receives proportionately
the same amount of capital per student with which to work. This would help alleviate problems like those in Washington
D.C. where the schools in the Northwest part of the city are sound but dismal in the South. In fact,
in 1989 almost “four times as many black men were jailed in the district’s prisons as graduated from its public
schools,” and that in a city where Blacks comprise well over half of the population. An equitable distribution of tax
dollars for the schools and for collegiate scholarships would be a start to keeping kids in school rather than on
the streets -- or in prison.

Another component of a potentially successful program is enterprise zones. Enterprise zones are areas where businesses are granted tax breaks
if they establish a branch within that zone, thereby creating new jobs. They are a great way to bring jobs
to the ghettos and create an atmosphere to which the students who received the college scholarships would want to return.
Their return would bring not only educated and more wealthy people to these regions, but would show the young people
that there is an alternative to selling drugs. The problem has been, however, that the tax breaks are so temporary
and small that either businesses do not take advantage of them or are not willing to relocate permanently into the
depressed areas. In light of that, what is needed is both lasting and substantial tax breaks to make the move
into the ghettos a financially sound one for big business.

From living in Massachusetts, I have seen the effects of an enormous, all-encompassing and often unquestioning welfare system, the weight
and irresponsibility of which have led to, among other things, the worst bond rating on Wall Street of any state
in the country and a two billion dollar deficit -- and consequently less money for everyone. Philadelphia is another example
where city government burdened by both expanding welfare payments and cuts in federal funds is not only strapped for cash,
but in this case, is on the verge of bankruptcy which could mean almost no money for anyone.

These issues are not explosive like the Gulf War, and they are not as visible as elections, but more and
more they are eating away at the very social fabric of this country. Consider these statistics: in 1988 62.2% of
all black babies were born to unmarried women (compared with 16.7% of white babies); in 1987 the infant mortality rate
was 18 black babies per 1000 (compared with 7.9 per 1000 white babies); last year’s unemployment rate among Blacks was
10.5% almost twice that of whites; the average black student is more likely to go to prison than university; in
1985 24.5% of Whites and 40.2% of Blacks had had less than twelve years of education; and finally, on a
different plain, the failing welfare system has tripled in cost since 1965 -- (these figures are calculated by the value
of the dollar).in 1988) from $141 billion in 1965 to $520 billion in 1987, with no apparent improvement in the
situation in our cities. All of these statistics can probably be at least partially explained away; but what is clear
to anyone who just looks around, even in Davidson on the way to I-77, is that this country is seeing
a growing disparity in wealth. Clearly, the old system is flawed, and the more we delay as a nation to
form a comprehensive policy to deal with this disparity, the harder it will be to change it. Despite some of
his failings, Lyndon B. Johnson said it well in 1965, “If we stand passively by while the center of each
city becomes a hive of deprivation, crime and hopelessness... if we become two people, the suburban affluent and the urban
poor, each filled with mistrust and fear for the other... then we shall cripple each generation to come.”

Time is moving and so must we.

*Almost all of the statistics and any other marked passages or quotations were taken from either staff-written articles (pgs 11,
17) in The Economist from 3/30/91 (marked with a *) or the Almanac of Statistics (marked with 4).

John Paiton is a junior poli-sci major from Harvard, MA.

El-Amine continued from page 6

McLaughlin and Kinner being Saddam Hussein, and Mr. HP being his propagandists. I would now like to turn to an
issue of more relevance for me as an Arab. I have been distressed by the increasingly belligerent stand the American
public has taken towards the Arab people. I did not realize how serious of an issue it had become until
only recently when a friend’s confusion allowed me to put things into perspective. She said, “I saw and heard about
so many Muslims around the world rallying behind Saddam Hussein. I don’t understand! How can a true Muslim believe Hussein
is a religious man? How can such an unholy person lead a holy war?” It became clear to me that
her view was the result of the propaganda that the media and government have been conveying to you. It certainly
has not been so black and white here in Italy. Maybe that is because the people can see through it.
It’s sad that even you students of the liberal arts have failed to see through the efforts of a group
of Ivy League clones in the White House. Their propaganda has succeeded in making you forget that this war is
about oil and in convincing you that this is a war to stem the rising tide of Muslim fanaticism which
supports Saddam Hussein.

This issue, however, is more complicated than the obvious Machiavellian strategy of Saddam Hussein to use religion as a means
of mobilizing the masses behind him. What is happening is that the Arab people, frustrated with a world order which
has kept them politically, economically, and, most importantly, psychologically inferior, are saying, “We’ve had enough.” A condition which very few
of you know anything about. A condition which is the result of a history of colonialism and neo-colonialism which made
and maintains your wealth and standard of living in the West while the Arabs continue to live in poverty and
destitution in the third world.

If you truly understood how a person in the third world felt knowing that he/she and his/her land are the
sources of your wealth, you would not be giving this war a chance. Moreover, you would see through the outlandish
justifications for this war. But I guess what I am asking you to do is to put aside that complacency
which all of us feel in that great haven, Davidson College, and try to understand why people are reacting the
way they are. In short, I do not by any means support Saddam Hussein. However, I support and sympathize with
the millions of Arabs who are manifesting their anger at the injustice in this world. Now, it seems, things will
only get worse. Once again, the world has slammed the door in their face. So don’t fall into the simplistic
view which our government has chosen to present in justifying its military presence in the Gulf. Not all Arabs are
Muslims and not all Muslims are “fanatics” (whatever that means). And if it makes a difference, there are a good
number of Arabs who are Christians. Together, these people are sick of trying to get through to you in a
less vociferous manner because you haven’t been listening. If Islam gives them the dignity and courage to stand up and
fight the vile injustice which they face every day, then all the power to them.

Rami El-Amine is a junior political science major who is currently studying in Rome.

Easter continued from page 6

“Oh, David,” Grandmother chided, “You are such a little wuss sometimes. Why don’t you just ditch school and come anyway?”
The world is a sad enough place. Wars rage, Europe... uh... exists. Starvation, turmoil, Twin Peaks. Listen up here, you
Davidson administrators (job possessors!), we do NOT need grandmother’s encouraging truancy. Come holiday season, Simple Living practically entails gorging with
Grandmother. This traveling on Easter Sunday bit has got to go. Don’t you see? Are you not hip? That hurry-up,
high-paced lifestyle of our heartless past has passed. So get with it! Pamper us. We have some shirking to do.
In closing: Hey administrators, y'all are goobers. So take that (my tongue is out), and that (dexterous fingers speak), and
that (you don’t want to know). Family values are at stake.

Women traditional gender roles, and these roles place women in a position of dependence on both a social and financial
level. Women must enter the public sphere and establish themselves as social and financial beings based on their own merit.
Only when women are freed from dependency will they be viewed as men’s equals. You might ask: “What about the
children?” The workplace must begin providing child care services, and all other forms of domestic labor must be shared equally
by men and women. Liberation from dependency will come only when men and women work, side by side, in both
the public and domestic spheres.

Razor continued from page 6

...ing wind resistance can improve your game. Know any long-haired freaky people that can dunk over Mike?

8) Chicks dig it.
9) Money. Skinheads will always find it easy to pick up a few bucks at the airport with some pencils,
a few flowers, and a saffron robe.
10) It really bums out those cheesy Hair Club For Men agents to find out that being bald is fashionable.

Remember folks: Bald is beautiful, so PUMP UP AND HAIR OUT!
