THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991 5

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

Into The Streets

This week, Reach Out at Davidson (formerly the YSSC) will be sponsoring a series of service-oriented events in town and
on campus. The week is being billed as a "celebration of community service at Davidson," and wisely so. The individual
activities are designed to promote student awareness not only of the problems which affect our community, but the ways in
which Davidson students are trying to solve them.

In conjunction with the Union, the SGA, the Solidarity Committee, IVCF, and the Chapel Committee, Reach Out has put together
several events which promise to be informative and enjoyable for those who participate.

Now, however, the responsibility for the success of this promotion lies with the students of Davidson College. We ask you
to please attend a few, if not many, of the socials, luncheons, meetings, and dinners sponsored by various branches of
Reach Out. Each of the individual events is designed to enlighten the community about the benefits of service participation in
a fun, social atmosphere. No one wants to attack you for having not been involved before, nor will anyone give
you a guilt trip about how you could have fed an entire village for seven weeks with the money you
spent on that Twinkie. Reach Out isn't about that kind of persuasion. Instead, they very wisely emphasize the community-strengthening aspects
of service projects. Help their work pay off by taking part in Into the Streets.

What's Next?

The Davidsonian would like to thank all those students who participated in last Tuesday's forum on the subject of honor
council reforms. The questions you asked and the comments you offered promoted an interesting discussion about the honor council. How
pleasant. We wonder now, however, what will be done next?

In order to gauge the student support for the idea of reforming the honor council, we have placed a simple
survey on the bottom right-hand corner of this page. Check one of the boxes, depending upon how you feel about
changes to the honor council. If enough support for the notion is apparent, the next step would be to determine
what kind of changes are necessary and how they would be implemented. Unless students respond to the survey at the
right, however, we won't know if it's even worth the bother. The honor council is yours, so let's hear from
you.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

ADMINISTRATION
STEALTH TECHNOLOGY
STEALTH HOUSING
STEALTH EDUCATION

Letters Cast Responds to TicketPrice Questions

To the Editor:

It has come to our attention over the past several weeks that many of you are upset at the high
ticket prices for *Kiss Me, Kate*. Why, you ask, are these tickets so much more expensive than those of previous
shows? Surely inflation has not risen so dramatically in just one year? Please allow us to explain the situation.

First, plays are always less expensive to produce than musicals. The royalties for a typical play are $50.00 per performance,
or $350.00 for the normal seven-show schedule. The royalties for *Kiss Me, Kate*, on the other hand, total nearly $1900.00
for the same seven-show schedule.

Second, $6.00 per ticket seems more expensive because we are all accustomed to paying $3.00, and in some cases only
$2.00, for a Davidson production. Compare the new ticket price with the price of an evening at the movies. Until
the new Cornelius theatre opens, the nearest movies are at University Place. Therefore, a trip to see *Terminator II* will
include not only the $5.50 admission price, but also gas money for transportation and an extra $2.00 to $3.00 for
refreshments. In comparison, a high-quality theatrical production within walking distance from your room for only $6.00 begins to look more
and more attractive.

Third, a school production needs the support of the faculty and student body in order to thrive. Sitting in the
audience, students and faculty alike will enjoy watching familiar faces dancing and singing to the great music and lyrics of
Cole Porter.

In conclusion, we are not attempting to make excuses for the high ticket prices. Rather, we have tried to explain
the reasons why we must raise the prices in the hope that you, kind reader, will give in and will
reach into your billfold or purse. Buy a ticket! We promise you a fun evening!

Thank you for your understanding and support.

Sincerely,
The Cast, Crew, and Staff of *Kiss Me, Kate*

---

More Students Upset About Cartoon

To the Editor:

A recent cartoon in *The Davidsonian* depicted Spencer House as a sinking ship while a woman on a raft suggested
that a new house be started. This cartoon contained several underlying assumptions that are untrue.

The first, and to me the most disturbing assumption in the cartoon, is that Spencer House has the smallest number
of members of the three current women’s eating houses. This does not mean that we are struggling to survive. Spencer
House has remained debt-free and is financially sound. We are anticipating a solid group of excited freshwomen joining Spencer House
in January. There is no reason for anyone at Davidson to believe that Spencer House is going to fold anytime
in the future.

The second assumption that I see in this cartoon is that the new women’s house is trying to replace Spencer
House. After meeting with the organizers of the new house, I am confident that this is not their intention. Everyone
involved wants to see the eating options for women at Davidson expand. In addition, a new house will provide more
representation for women on PCC and the SGA.

It is a concern of the women of Spencer House that the campus be correctly informed about the stability of
our house. We are excited about being a member of Patterson Court and remaining here for a long time. It
is difficult to combat negative attitudes towards our house when they are based on false assumptions.

Sincerely,
Tammy Winn, et al.

---

Reader Survey

Do you favor the concept of honor council reforms? Please check one of the boxes below and return this portion
of the page to the Union Desk.

[ ] Yes
[ ] No
