Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

VOLUME LXXXII NUMBER 16

Photo By Chris Lee

Thanks to the sales of the Black Student Coalition, Valentine balloons were a hit.

Davidson Finds National Review’s Ranking Favorable

By Sean Lind

Last week, William F. Buckley’s The National Review named Davidson as one of the top fifty liberal arts colleges in
the nation. Because of the criterion used by The Review, however, there has been much debate on the issue. Administrators
and students have expressed concern that the recognition is a reflection of Davidson’s antiquated traditions, rather than an affirmation of
the school’s progressive excellence.

The Davidsonian conducted a random phone survey of 100 students to find out how they felt about Davidson’s ranking. Some
students expressed concern about the ranking. Senior Ellen Ott commented, "I was not surprised by the ranking, but I was
disappointed by the criterion that they used. A lot of the bases The Review felt were negative, I see as
areas of Davidson's progress."

The majority of students, however, felt that the recognition was positive. Sophomore Kyle Kinner stated, "Regardless of its political intent,
the article reflected us in a positive light and gave us some constructive criticism." This survey was compiled with the
help of David Thompson and Tom Koonce.

Kuykendall Discusses The Past, Present and Future Of Davidson

By Mark Puckett and Jay Chaudhuri

On January 24, The Davidsonian interviewed President Kuykendall to discuss various issues regarding Davidson.

Davidsonian: You just got back from New York. What were you doing there?

Kuykendall: Trying to raise money for Davidson College. Chronologically, our campaign is in its early-to-mid phase. We are spending some
time now following up on some good things that have happened--saying “thank you” to some and trying to keep the
process going with other potential donors. The campaign is a major preoccupation for me right now. I imagine that every
stage is critical, but we have reached the halfway point, and Toby Bethea and others keep telling me that the
last seventy-five million is the hardest {laughs}.

Davidsonian: How do you feel about the NCAA meeting at the beginning of the year?

Kuykendall: In a general way it expressed, at least for the time being, the seriousness of the intention to bring
about “reform” in two areas, neither one of which substantially impact Davidson’s current program. One is referred to as “cost
containment,” and the second is what they call “mainstreaming.” Both terms give me some problems, though in both instances I
expect that for certain institutions those goals are necessary and laudable. They’re not very applicable to Davidson’s day-to-day concerns.

Davidsonian: In your opinion is it still possible for a school this size to attain high athletic achievement on the
basis of what we see, say, in basketball in other schools such as Duke and Carolina?

Kuykendall: It’s possible in some areas. I think significant accomplishment is possible with the exception of football. Still, for a
school Davidson’s size, the kind of success enjoyed in men’s basketball twenty years ago is a difficult thing to envision
in today’s changed environment. Certainly, in areas where we have had traditional strength, and I think we’ve demonstrated this fall,
for example, that we can not only be competitive but be successful. I don’t know that that’s a permanent situation,
but it’s demonstrable.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

That there is that opportunity. This is probably not dependent on divisional status, though that’s a piece of it. We
are geographically and historically involved in Division I with few immediate options to do otherwise. One wonders if the competition
would be any easier at a lower division.

Davidsonian: Well, is the invitation back into the Southern Conference just a pipe dream? Or is it a plausibility? Why
have they invited us back?

Kuykendall: I think the reasons they’ve invited us back are internal to the Southern Conference—to represent a desire the conference
has for balance and expansion: ambitions from their vantage, plausible ambitions. Our departure from the Southern Conference, as you know,
was not of our own choosing, and I would think our return to it—if it were to take place—would have
to take place on our terms, which perhaps would not match up with the terms they seem to espouse. The
attraction is to traditional rivals: Furman, Citadel, VMI—schools that were in the “old” Southern Conference. But Davidson has done a
great deal of moving in recent years, and I think...

Continued on Page 3

Plans For New Residence Halls In Martin Court Released

By Ross Sloop

In an effort to grapple with Davidson’s overcrowding problem, the school plans to construct a new senior apartment building. This
new building is designed to have four floors which would include a basement. The basement would accommodate a couple of
suites as well as a spacious laundry and a large meeting room. “Hopefully this laundry will hold about six washers
and six dryers. The meeting room should accommodate close to fifty people,” says Director of Residence Life Richard Terry.

The basic style of the new building will be the same as the old apartments. It will house 56 students
in 14 suites designed for groups of four individuals. Adding the 56 extra senior beds will bring the number of
students being housed in apartments to about 200. Costs for the construction have not yet been determined. Various firms will
submit bids for the contract on March 15. Whatever contracting firm offers to build for the lowest price gets the
contract. “I can’t imagine it costing less than 1 million or more than 2 million,” says Terry.

So, when will it be ready? This is the question that seniors who want to put their lottery numbers in
for the new apartment will be asking. Little and Associates architects as well as Davidson’s physical plant administrators hope that
it will be ready for returning students in the middle of August. The Residence Life Office, however, can make no
guarantees. “I want to be as fair and straightforward as possible,” says Richard Terry. “Having the apartments ready by the
middle of August is an ambitious but feasible project. But there’s a chance that they won’t be ready, and some
seniors will have to deal with some temporary housing for a while. I guess we’ll find out who the gamblers
are.”

INSIDE

News
Davidsonian Editorial Board rejects endorsement idea. Page 2

Special 4-page Q & A session with SGA candidates. Pages 4-7.

Opinions
Honor Council and the system needs democratic reforms. Page 9

Tallying candidate flyers. Page 10.

Campus Living
SGA weekend over-emphasizes getting drunk? Page 16.

Professor Welsh declares faith in power of African Art. Pages 17.

Sports
Basketball goes 0-3 last week. Page 18.

First Class Mail — U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036
