14 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

Liz Says, Dair Says...
Liz Davidson & Dair Brown

Positive Attitude Shapes The Experience

Liz says...
As much as I love this school, it drives me crazy sometimes. Some people stress out. Not me. I get bored. I feel trapped. I begin to feel like my life is confined to a square mile of land. I see the same people, hear the same stories, and have the same small talk conversations. It feels like endless deja vu, and I begin to fantasize about transferring.

The boredom got to me freshman and sophomore years. In a sense, I wallowed in it. I talked of living in LA, DC, New York, where I would see new people every day and have somewhere to go at night, something to do. My friends sympathized, but they loved the school for the same reasons I hated it. They would probably hate the traffic, smog, and crowds of a big city. They would hate a classroom of 300 people or fraternity parties with guest lists.

This is what made me realize how lucky I am. I realized that I can either focus on the positive or negative aspects of my experience here. While I know that I will move to a big Northern city after graduation, I also realize the merits of a small school and a small community like Davidson.

When you start to feel stifled here, the answer is not to fantasize about leaving. Instead, become more involved. This is your personal experience. You can make what you want of it. In many senses, we have more opportunities here than do students of larger universities. For example, Davidson students can participate in intramural sports. They can write on the newspaper as freshmen, whereas at the large school, senior journalism majors might have to fight for the opportunity to write an article. Davidson students can choose their eating houses. We can even design our own majors here.

Granted, Charlotte is not much of a city, and the court parties do get old. However, the social scene at any school gets old. Look to your friends for support, and in turn, support them. You may feel stifled, but think of how it would feel if they weren’t there. Think of how it would feel if you couldn’t go to your professors for help or if you had no social life because you didn’t get in the fraternity you wanted.

I am glad I came to school here, in spite of the fact I sometimes question my selection of colleges. Graduation day, I will be crying. I will leave with a new perspective. Maybe all colleges do this to you; I don’t know. But I know that this experience will not have been wasted. Sometimes it's hard to think like this when you’re bored and frustrated. But as corny as this sounds, a positive attitude will do a world of good. This is without a doubt the best cure for the Davidson Blues.

Dair says...
We are all familiar with the stress of college life. If you procrastinate like me, you may end up with two books to read and a ten-page paper to complete for the next morning. You need someone to complain to, yet everyone is in the same boat. College students feel this pressure throughout their four years, yet at Davidson it is multiplied. There is no place to escape, no big city to explore, no parents to sympathize with your problems.

Despite the fact that there is no escape, there are many things you can do to relieve this stress. First, relax and put things into perspective. Lay on your bed and listen to some mellow music for an hour. Or slam dance to Motley Crue. Grab a friend and go out for a quick jog around the campus. Or con a friend into giving you a backrub. These can all relieve tensions and prepare you for a long night.

It is important to take study breaks whether they are to the Union, Back Street, B&E, or just to take a quick walk. Spend about an hour on a break not thinking about work. Clearing your mind will allow you to think coherently.

We all spend nights in the library or bonding with our computers. Don’t let friends partying until the wee hours distract you from your work. You can join your friends the next night when everything is complete and all tests are taken. Finally, try to plan in advance so...you won’t end up doing everything the night before. This will alleviate undue stress. Remember, we all feel this stress, it’s part of the life of a college student. 

TYURITE?H, | WRITES For i | Campus Living! Please Call: May Martin x6430

SHOCKER! The Yearbooks from the 1989-90 school year, yes that's right, 1989-90, are finally here. Pick them up in the...

By Chris Moeling and Melissa Payne

Welcome to the tale of Davidson Environmental Action. This is our fourth official year as a formal committee, though the group itself still remains in an embryonic stage. I am Melissa, co-organizer of “Davidson Environmental Awareness”... Hmm, sounds kind of like a reggae band, eh? Our group is for the people, by the people, all that democratic stuff. That means YOU, Davidsonian subscribers, are the heart of this group. Look at it this way: my cohort Chris and I are your chauffeurs-- we have the transportation (environmentally efficient, of course), the gas (money), and the time. All you need to do is get in and tell us where to go... but don’t forget, you have to come along.

One of our priorities this semester will be writing informative articles for the Davidsonian, and we’d love your help. Now that Melissa’s done, I just want to add one little note. Since the writing of the bulk of this article, we discovered that in fact, Davidson Environmental Action has a very, uh, tight budget. Unfortunately, this greatly limits our influence as a campus organization, and certain measures will soon be taken to remedy this problem. Now more than ever Davidson needs a strong student environmental group, and I encourage each of you to become a part of this growing organization. KEEP AN EYE OUT FOR OUR NEXT MEETING!

Pigman Continued From Page 13

...sion in our cover-alls which turned a lot of heads. We ignored these unpleasant reactions and piled into the front seat of Henry’s 1959 truck. Although the work was challenging and strenuous, we kept up our spirits and smiled over the pungent odor of stale leftovers. We carried our bags of slop to the truck and emptied the contents into the designated barrels. To my amazement, Henry allows the pigs to eat bacon, pork, and ham. In fact, Henry said that they love it. I personally think that it might give them gas. Once the slop is collected, Henry transports the contents to his farm approximately five miles from campus. Upon arriving at his farm, he loads the various slop barrels on a cart and...

Exam Continued From Page 13

...fits of the different methods of contraception and will help you decide which form of contraception is right for you.

...takes it to a big cooking pot outside the pig pen. He proceeds to cook all the slop again in order to protect his pigs from bacteria. When the slop is ready, he pours it into feeding bins where the pigs partake of our leftovers. They will always enjoy a salmon casserole that we turned up our noses to. After a six to nine month “fattening” period, the pigs are ready to be sold at the market. Eventually, Henry’s pigs will be served to Davidson College students enjoying a hearty meal at Bacon and Eggs. Henry says that he will continue his “pig enterprise” as long as Patterson Court will provide leftovers. As for the outcome of our sociology project, Taylor and I were the best pig-assistants Henry had ever had (not to mention the only ones).

Although it may be scary to think about the first gynecologic exam, it’s really nothing to be apprehensive about. The exam is something all women should have, once every year. It’s the best tool of prevention we have. Take advantage of it!

MAKE RESERVATIONS NOW FOR YOUR HOLIDAY PARTIES AT JT'S OR IF YOU PREFER, WE'LL CATER TO YOUR HOME!

CUISINAIRES
Philip J. Lloyd and L. Al Blakely
Located in Sadler Square, Davidson
892-6429

Serving Lunch Mon.-Fri. 11:30-2
Serving Dinner Mon.-Thur. 5-10; Fri. & Sat. 5-11 (limited menu between 2-5)

Owner & Operator Jim Truslow - formerly opened and operated North Harbor Cafe
All ABC Permits
We look forward to accepting your Homecoming and Parent's Weekend reservations. We serve the best in fresh seafood, steaks, chicken, and lamb!
Catering Available