THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

Legislators Say No To Letting Women Into VMI

RICHMOND, Va. (CPS) - A Virginia state Senate committee effectively killed a bill that would have forced Virginia Military Institute
to admit women. Committee Chairman Elmon Gray ruled the bill was out of order because of a pending lawsuit between
the federal government and VMI, whose influential supporters in the state want to keep it open exclusively to males.

“Here we are in Saudi Arabia and one woman has already been taken as a prisoner of war,” complained bill
sponsor Sen. Emilie Miller. Committee members said, “To change VMI's policy is offensive to women.”

Ineligible Students Have Gotten Millions in College Loans

WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS) - There is so little control over federal college loan programs that its predecessors have loaned more
than $100 million to ineligible students during the past 25 years, the General Accounting Office reported Jan. 28. “Critical internal
controls over the program are missing,” the GAO report concluded.

Student Drug Use Declines in California

Less than a week after a University of Michigan survey claimed student use of illicit drugs has declined nationwide for
the second straight year, a California study found drug and alcohol use among California high schoolers has declined slightly. Alcohol
drinking among public school students in 7th, 9th, and 11th grades declined for the first time since 1985, the study
claims.

Dean Rusk Program To Sponsor Conference On Environment

By Jay Chaudhuri

The Dean Rusk Program in International Studies will be sponsoring an environmental conference entitled “Towards A Healthy Global Environment: Preservation,
Development, and Restoration.” Speakers will include some of the most prominent environmental experts in the world. The conference is the
third in a series of the Dean Rusk Program made possible by grants from NCNB Corporation.

- On Monday, March 4 at 8 p.m., U.S. Senator Wyche Fowler of Georgia will speak on current government action
for the environment. In 1987, Fowler introduced an energy bill to reduce America’s reliance on foreign oil. He continues to
propose initiatives and policies to avoid future problems.
- On Tuesday, March 5 at 11 p.m., Will Tsosie of the Chinle Unified Schools in Chinle, Arizona, will address
the Native American perspective on environment preservation. Tsosie is a member of the Navajo nation, the tribe with the largest
population in North America.
- At 1:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Dr. Werner Fornos of The Population Institute and Dr. Alan Duming of the Worldwatch
Institute will serve on a panel addressing “Implications of Population Growth for the Environment and the Standard of Living.”
- At 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Dr. Herman Daly of The World Bank and Dr. Kerry Smith of North Carolina
State University will serve on a panel discussing “The World Economy and Its Resource Base.”
- At 8 p.m. on Tuesday, William S. Lee, chairman and president of Duke Power Company, will discuss nuclear power
and the environment.
- On Wednesday, March 6 at 1:30 p.m., Dr. Emilo Moran of Indiana University and Dr. George M. Woodwell of
Woods Hole Marine Biological Laboratory will serve on the panel, “Endangered Tropical Rain Forests: Regional and Global Issues.”
- At 8 p.m. on Wednesday, Dr. Orrin Pilkey, geology professor at Duke University, will speak on shelf sedimentation and
marine geology. Pilkey directs a Duke program on the study of shoreline development.
- On Thursday, March 7 at 11 a.m., Dr. Holms Rolston III, philosophy professor at Colorado State University, will close
the conference with an address.Address on environmental ethics. All speeches and discussions are free and open to the public and
will take place in the Chambers Building on campus. For more information, call the Dean Rusk Program at 704/892-2440. This
article was compiled with the help of Lisa Gerrard of College Relations.

Davidson's United Carolina Bank To Expand Building
By Ross Sloop

The United Carolina Bank at the corner of Main and Depot streets will be destroyed within the coming weeks. The
bank is making way for a new complex that will be built on the site of the current building. Branch
management assures that the rebuilding project will be of no hindrance to Davidson students and faculty who bank there. This
Friday, employees will move equipment and other belongings out of the bank into a trailer located directly behind their building.
U.C.B. will then operate out of this trailer until the new complex is complete. Branch manager Catherine Small expects construction
to take less than a year. “Hopefully we will have moved into our new complex by Christmas.”

Although United Carolina Bank has occupied the red brick building on the corner of Main and Depot since they moved
to Davidson in 1984, Small reports that the bank never intended for that building to be its permanent home. “We’re
upgrading our location for two reasons. We not only need more space, but we would like to provide our customers
with the best facilities,” says Small. The new complex will include an automatic teller machine and safety deposit boxes for
bankers. The building will accommodate more than just the bank, however.

The two-story complex will also house office space and room for retail stores that will be leased by U.C.B. Small
is also pleased that the architect’s design meets standards set by the Davidson Historic Committee. “We are really happy that
we could come up with a plan that satisfies the interests of the town’s Historic Committee, as well as something
that we really like.”

Publish - Continued from Page 1

The faculty tenure committee, which includes Dean Williams, considers statements from previous students and scholars at other schools before presenting
their decision to President John Kuykendall and the Board of Trustees. Only the trustees may grant tenure.

“In selecting people we are going to keep at Davidson,” he said, “we try first of all to get good
teachers, and secondly, to get good teachers who are good scholars. We may occasionally make decisions that don’t look like
that’s what we’re doing, but that’s our stated policy.”

The faculty does not deny that the pressure to publish exists at Davidson. Dr. L.R. King of the mathematics department
feels that pressure is “more concentrated among those who don’t have tenure.”

The rigorous series of interviews and committee evaluations contrast sharply with the review process he experienced in the early seventies.
“It was very informal,” he said, “We didn’t even know the process was underway.”

Dr. Grant Jones of the anthropology department believes that new faculty members will have no problem meeting the rigorous requirements
that Davidson has set for its teachers. “The generation that’s coming in has this mindset that scholarship is important.”

From the German department, one new faculty member agrees. Dr. Scott Denham feels that the pressure to achieve excellence, not
only in personal research but also in teaching, comes ultimately from within. “I think it’s inevitable and wonderful that what
academics are working on privately overflows into the classroom,” Denham said. “Students know this because it happens to them too
-- what a professor thinks about in the library has a way of connecting with what goes on in the
classroom.”
