MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

Campus Living

Art Show Offers A Glance At Davidson Students' Talents

By Bryan Bayles

The Annual Student Art Exhibition opened in Chambers Gallery on Friday, April 12. Consisting of works from courses offered in
the art department during the 1990-91 school year, the exhibition is an eclectic mix of works in various media, including
etchings, lithographs, paintings, and mixed-media assemblages.

The exhibition was judged by Ms. Christa Faut, owner of Christa Faut Gallery on Main Street. First Award went to
Jim Dautremont for a recent etching entitled Don Scourge of Madness. Second and Third Awards went to Twila Welch and
Rob Lim respectively. Welch just completed an impressive senior exhibition in the Union Gallery, and Dautremont and Lim’s senior shows
are currently hanging in Cunningham and Chambers Lobby. Honorable Mentions were awarded to John Morris, Bryan Bayles, and Michael Barber.

Although it is impossible for the show to do justice to the maturing process that students experience during extended periods
of study in Davidson’s art department, the images gathered here offer a suggestion of the diverse pictorial and thematic issues
that can be tackled by an ambitious student body. If nothing else, certain pieces will point you towards particular artists
whose work you would like to follow in the future.

Anyone interested in purchasing works from the show should contact the artists directly. The show will remain hung through the
last week of classes.

The Incredible Ease Of Well-Being

Cobb Bids Farewell With Last Minute Advice

By Marlo Cobb

This is the last (normal) issue of The Davidsonian so what follows are pieces of general information which need to
be printed, but have never fit into an article.

- Popcorn is a snack which is American Cancer Society, American Dietetic Association, and American Dental Association approved.
- Hot dogs are made from some meats you would never eat otherwise, and 85% of the calories in hot
dogs come from fat.
- Air travel is dehydrating. Coffee, tea, soft drinks, and alcohol make it worse. At “cabin beverage service,” ask for
water or mineral water to minimize jet lag.
- The phosphoric acid in carbonated soft drinks interferes with calcium absorption in women.
- Only 30 percent of American women get enough calcium daily. This is not as much of a problem in
China, where they eat much less protein; there is some evidence that protein taken with calcium limits calcium’s absorption.
- “Sugar free” does not mean “lower in calories.”
- Wearing high heels, especially heels higher than one inch, can result in ankle, calf, knee, and back injuries, as
well as temporary discomfort.
- Don’t put babies on low-fat diets (yes, people are actually doing this). Fat-rich diets under the age of two
are necessary; they won’t make Baby into an overweight, unhealthy adult.
- Moderate exercise will help relieve the pain of menstrual cramps.
- It is normal to feel hungrier during your period.
- If you want to lose weight, don’t eat late at night. We tend to get hungrier at night, but
metabolism is lower at this time, and you can’t burn any calories while you’re sleeping.
- Eat slowly; after your stomach is full, it takes about 20 minutes for this message to be relayed from
the stomach to the brain.
- Remember that keeping weight off necessitates permanent changes in eating and exercise habits. Statistics say that if you diet
to lose weight fast, you’ll soon regain it, plus more.
- A safe rate of weight loss is one half of a pound per week.
- Statistics say you are ten times more likely to successfully change yourself (for example, lose weight) if you stay
away from self-help groups and doctor-prescribed diets and, instead, implement the change yourself.
- If you are interested in becoming certified to teach aerobics, you can look into ESA, AFAA, or the IDEA
Foundation. I am IDEA-certified; two years ago their certification process involved studying a 350-page book and taking a 2-3 hour
test on physiology, kinesiology, basic nutrition, and class methods. Write to IDEA Foundation, 6190 Cornerstone Court East, Suite 202, San
Diego, CA, 92121.

What my roommates are saying about me is true, to a certain extent, but... I knew an extremely health-conscious guy
in high school; he used to bring bell peppers...to school and eat them plain. We were 17 and he hadn’t
had a cookie in three years. I tried a similar lifestyle once: watch sweets, watch sweets, count calories, count calories,
I’m-going-to-the-beach-today-so-I’ve-got-to-get-my-run-in-this-morning-at-6 am-before-we-go, etc. I almost drove myself crazy. My likes and dislikes are pretty evenly distributed among things that are
“good for you” and things that are “bad for you.” It’s inconvenient for me that I like the taste of
beer, but I like spinach. Soft drinks make me sick, and I don’t like salty foods. I actually enjoy running
five miles -- with a Walkman and a good tape. I know I could improve my physical health much more
directly if I cut out sweets, but would my overall happiness increase? I think not. Really, you can keep a
balance and somehow escape driving yourself insane, while being generally health-conscious and avoiding whichever vices are easiest for you to
avoid.

Some people have an easier time watching what they eat; other people have an easier time keeping with an exercise
program. I’d rather live than diet, personally, but whatever works for you. Just keep informed; know why the way you
live affects you like it does, and make a change if a change will be beneficial to you in the
long run. Sianara. [How do you spell “sianara”?] Watch for The DAVIDPHONIAN.

Sheppard Leads Students To Outdoor Opportunities
By Kristen Stricker

After graduating from college, most people find themselves in a career far removed from their major. Greg Sheppard, however, is
one of those people who works in their chosen field of study. As Director of Davidson Outdoors, he daily puts
to use his degree from Appalachian State University in outdoor recreation management. Sheppard came to Davidson last September after working
for three years as director of a wilderness camp for delinquent children. Excited by the opportunity to steer this relatively
new program originally started by Gerald Hutchinson, Sheppard has not been disappointed. “Everyone in connection with the program has been
helpful and the students are bright and energetic.”

Davidson Outdoors offers camping, backpacking, rafting, and other outside trips to students. Sheppard feels this is a good chance to
let students get away from the hectic pace on campus and enjoy themselves outdoors. Sheppard has plans to take Davidson
Outdoors further, however. Sheppard says that he “would like to see the program get to the point where student trip
leaders lead a majority of the trips. It teaches responsibility, leadership, and offers a great chance to interact with peers.”
He is also looking into getting Davidson Outdoors affiliated with a national wilderness association. This would allow student trip leaders
to receive certification upon completion of a specified program.

Many students do not realize it, but they can also take advantage of renting camping equipment at a nominal fee.
And for all those people out there who think you have to be an athlete in training in order to
participate, Sheppard says, “A common misconception is that you have to be a hard-core outdoors person to participate. But 95
percent of the trips are geared towards beginners. So don’t be intimidated.” And make sure you sign up next semester
for a great trip!

Other activities in the near future include clinics throughout the year with topics such as winter camping, kayak rolling, and
fly fishing. He would also like to see more trips offered each semester, at least one or two every weekend.
Next semester, Davidson Outdoors will offer such trips as hang-gliding, rock climbing, white water rafting, snorkeling in the Florida Keys,
canoeing in the Everglades, sailing in the Bahamas, and a Christmas ski trip, possibly to Killington, Vermont. Students will also
have the opportunity to receive physical education credit for a rock climbing course.

Sheppard has always been interested in pursuing outdoor activities. Having grown up in the mountains, he spent much of his
childhood fishing, camping, and hunting. Later, as a teenager in the early 70’s, he and friends got caught up in
the backpacking craze. This interest continued throughout a stint serving in the Coast Guard, and later in college.
