MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

Campus Living

Got The Sniffles? Think Twice About Medicine

By David Wright

The first reaction many people have when they are suffering from a cold is to reach towards the medicine cabinet
for a bottle of aspirin or acetaminophen. Although this practice of wanton medicine groping seems to be almost instinctual in
most of us, it may not necessarily be a prudent one.

Researchers at the University of Adelaide in Australia have found that volunteers infected with a cold virus who took aspirin
or acetaminophen experienced more of the uncomfortable symptoms associated with the cold than those that were administered the placebo. In
addition, the subjects that were administered the placebo developed a higher level of antibodies than those given the drugs. The
researchers concluded that the use of aspirin or acetaminophen may actually interfere with the immune response system and its attempt
to thwart the cold virus, thus lengthening the period of discomfort.

If you have a cold with the following symptoms: a runny nose and sore throat, aspirin or acetaminophen will not
relieve the congestion and may suppress the immunological response leading to resolution of the symptoms. Consequently, an over-the-counter decongestant is
probably your best choice. However, if your symptoms include severe head and body aching, the salubrious advantages of aspirin or
acetaminophen seem to outweigh any of these disadvantages. In times of need, aspirin or acetaminophen is a viable option, but
realize that these drugs are not panaceas and in some cases (such as a runny nose), they may cause the
discomfort of a cold to worsen. Remember, the key to relieving your cold is an understanding of your symptoms and
the effects of the drug-specific treatments.

(Information for this article was taken from the Journal of Infectious Diseases, December 1990, pp. 1277-82.)

Is The World Collapsing Around Our Ears? : REM's Out Of Time

By Will Montgomery and Curt Perkins

REM’s Out of Time was destined to be controversial. Arriving on the heels of Green places this record within a
grand debate: At that moment when REM decided they were “too REM” and changed their sound (and/or approach), what did
they change it to? Why? And does it work?

Out of Time is a very good record. On the album, REM sounds mostly non-REM, being rather clever about the
entire endeavor. There are many things this album is not: a rock-out extravaganza, not Murmur, and not even consistent in
a “Rock & Roll” sense of the word. It is a more subtle record. It seems that Michael Stipe has
had a realization: you alienate people by forcing your views on them. Instead, he is almost painfully self-conscious. In the
song “Losing My Religion,” the first one given heavy radio airplay and made into a video seen on the hour
every hour on MTV, he wonders “have I said too much.” He is very aware and perhaps uncomfortable with his
role of celebrity/mass-media poet, forced to choose “his confessions” under a constant spotlight.

This self-consciousness, however, does not completely censor Stipe's political commentary. A sense of paranoia and fear for the collapse of
society pervades the album. Stipe laments the failure of commercial radio in “Radio Song” saying that “the world is collapsing
around our ears” and using radio as a metaphor for popular society in general. The song “Belong” echoes these concerns
on a global level beginning with Stipe coolly reflecting in a low, quick voice, “The world collapsed on a Sunday
morning, as creatures jumped the barricades and headed for the sea, sea.” Stipe hauntingly talks/half-chants, repeating the encouragement of a
mother to her daughter to be “calm, calm,...Belong.” The song captures a manic, almost defeated feeling of hopeless collapse, while
at the same time making the simple affirmation of the human need to “Belong.”

The strength of Out of Time lies in its individual songs. Diehards laud Chronic Town and Murmur for the sound
which REM captured. Though the same jangle creeps through in songs like “Near Wild Heaven,” REM has traded the cohesion
of a “sound” for a highly unique attention to each song. Cohesion, rather, lies in the thematic concerns of collapse,
memory, time, and love. There is a noticeably increased use of instrumentation. In “Low” an eerie violin and bass clarinet
moan and whine along with Stipe’s ode to melancholy. Jangly mandolins and acoustic guitars show up on some of the
more upbeat, bubblegum songs like “Shiny Happy People.” On the instrumental “Endgame,” a curious step into gothic elevator music, they
use a flugelhorn. What? Imagine whipping out a flugelhorn in the garage in Athens.

The album is one of REM’s strongest achievements. They are mature artists in their prime, struggling to break out of
what is expected while not denying what they are.best at. Each member of the band stretches on this album. Stipe’s
voice is clear, strong, and intriguing. He uses obscure lyrics on Out of Time almost as well as he has
used lyrical incomprehensibility on earlier albums (i.e. Murmur, etc.). Mike Mills becomes Mr. Keyboard, playing both harpsichord and organ. He
also fronts the vocals on several songs, proving to be an interesting, albeit whiny, change. Bill Berry plays congas as
well as a variety of other percussion. Stipe’s mumble days and REM’s underwater style are seemingly gone. They were the
voice of the college generation: uncertain and insecure. With age, the uncertainty has remained, but the concerns are more focused
and clearly stated. Faced with a definite statement, REM’s early interpretive empathy fans may be turned off. So much for
history. On Out of Time, REM is more sure of themselves and their direction. They have learned to play the
pop game and not sell out. They don’t fall into the trap of posturing social messiahs. The sound is rich,
and the album is good. The words are clear.

By Jeff Revis and Wilson Hardcastle

Facet, the food at Davidson gets boring. Commons fare becomes repetitive and the eating houses aren’t much better. In order
to spice up our culinary existence, we must look beyond the campus for an interesting meal. Searching for the little
gems that I hear lurk in these parts, I grabbed my faithful castle and headed to Mooresville. Following 77 to
exit 36, we turned left onto Highway 150 West. The next three miles or so were filled with pastures, cows,
tin-roofed shacks, and other examples of local color. We soon found a quaint seafood place which had the surprising taste
not to call itself a “seafood shoppe” with the extra “pe.” Our final destination: Big Daddy’s. Much to our relief,
we discovered that it was not a cathouse. Learning it was a “restaurant and oyster bar,” we decided to go
ahead and review this place. We are glad we did.

Upon entering Big Daddy’s, we chose the table and therefore oysters, raw of course, for the gourmet sidekick Wilson Hardcastle.
Despite the ceiling and the photo gallery of local celebrities (all of whom came from the auto-racing and tractor pull
circuits), the atmosphere was enjoyable. Seemingly minimalist in decor, an effort to create an amiable atmosphere was evident. A Marylander
and veteran of oyster shucking contests, I couldn’t resist trying a half dozen appetizers. It’s still a little early in
the season, but these oysters were fresh and tasty. With a little horseradish and cocktail sauce, they slide gently down
the throat. Wilson opted for the New England Clam Chowder which he ranked among the best he has ever sampled.

Along with our appetizers was brought a large basket of hushpuppies. Good hushpuppies are key to any respectable seafood restaurant.
We devoured these quickly. Wilson said that the low onion content was the deciding factor. The half-pitchers of iced tea
they brought each of us foreshadowed the feast to come. When our culinary delights came out on Union-style trays, I
was slightly hesitant. My attitude changed, however, when I saw the Alaskan Snow Crab Clusters and I had the Shrimp
Panned in Butter Sauce. The Clusters O’ Crab were heaped upon his plate. By the lack of comments coming from
his side of the table, I could tell that he enjoyed the meal. Big Daddy didn’t skimp on the shrimp
either, which came in a good-sized bowl.

Attention Jazz Fans!

Jamey Aebersold will lead two free clinics on JAZZ IMPROVISATION at CPCC on Saturday, May 11. Aebersold is a nationally
known saxophonist and authority on jazz education and improvisation. He has developed 46 play-along book and recording sets and various
supplemental aids for the development of improvisational skills. He feels that improvisation is something all people can do, and his
clinics concentrate on demonstrating how the creative and spontaneous nature of each individual can be brought to light. The morning
clinic will be held from 10:30 to noon, and the afternoon clinic will be from 2-3:30. At 8 p.m., Aebersold
will join the Bill Hanna Quartet for an evening of JAZZ. All events will be in Room 120 of the
Bryant Building on CPCC’s main campus on Elizabeth Avenue. It is all free, and everyone is invited to attend. For
more information, call Bill Hanna at 545-8109, 9 a.m. - 9 p.m.

Recycle This Davidsonian!
