8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

Depth, Relevance! Has Anybody Seen My Face?

You know they, or at least some of them, say History moves in cycles. A strict cyclist might therefore hold
that what’s happening these days has happened before, it’s just that now we’re doing it with cars. In other words,
as noted by those itinerant historical analysts RATT, what goes around comes around. So watch your back. Or maybe it’s
all more of a dialectical thing: thought > a thesis or three > synthesis > begin again. (If you’re curious,
read Hegel. If you’re smart, just mention the name to Prof. Brian Shaw and receive a brief, gripping summary.)

Of course, some might not care for this view either. I mean, what’s with all these theses? If you’ve got
a good idea, why mess with it? Such critics might feel we’ve been screwing up the Unity since Eden. So,
to summarize: First conception, “I’ve got a funny feeling this has happened before.” Second, Hegel - Dialectic (yeah!). Third, Critics
- Dialectic (yuck!). Or maybe the dialectic is cyclic or the cycle is dialectical, and the more stuff engendered the
closer we are to getting back to The Bang! That’s probably it, but such banter can drag on. If you
would like to discuss the matter further, please submit yourself to a good therapist.

Perhaps about now you might be wondering what has led me to the development of such mature and sustained ideas.
Well, I'll tell you. It’s beards. Back a long time ago, Peter the Great wanted to make Russia modern. So
he traveled to Europe and saw a lot of smooth-faced, sensitive men in turtlenecks running everything. The little tiger came
home and personally shaved the beards off his closest advisors and palace fanny smackers. Now beards were quite cherished in
old Russia, a tradition thing. Perhaps you might say they were cool. Historians speculate that those big-hatted czarists didn’t take
kindly to Peter’s blade. But Pete wanted badly to be cool in the eyes of his co-kings in Europe, (politically
correct?) so he outlawed the bushy look. I don’t remember the punishment. Probably something minor like death without multiple amputation,
but why pick the man apart? He was on the forefront of the historically cyclic dialectical Unity of evolving person-kind.

In Davidson, there is a new synthesis sweeping the campus fashion scene and it’s growing all over the faces of
males you probably know. Hair. Lots and little. Red, brown, unkempt, and copious. We’ve come full circle from Peter’s paranoia.
The cycle has spun, beards are in, or at least coming in, and the penalty for not sprouting is dire.
IBM might hire you. And the advantages to fur are fulsome. First, low maintenance. The particularly slow to grow have
an advantage here. If you don’t tend to bush out like kudzu in heat, your beard will require basically no
work. A good rule of thumb for those considering facial hair but nervous about appearancial (a word that should exist)
ramifications is that if you are grotesquely smooth-chested, a beard will not be hard to maintain, if it appears at
all, and you almost certainly will not have to shave your neck.

On the other hand, there are perks only obtainable by the particularly hairy. For example, one look I have yet
to see but anticipate with relish (and expect considering current trends) could only be achieved by those possessing a solid
mat, or coat if you will, stretching from nether regions to sideburns. My idea is sort of a Mohawk type
thing spanning the stretch between belly-button and chin. A lot of shaving but worth it. It could get you on
Carson. As you must see, beards can be fun for anyone. No wonder they’re so popular. Plus, they’re a lot
more comfortable than long hair, old egg remnants in the frying pan are no longer a problem, and you finally
have a broom that can get into those pesky, hard-to-reach places. So fur up. Catch a fuzz. And NEVER degenerate
to the wussification: “I’m just growing it to keep my face warm in the winter.” Flaunt it baby. And to
all those frowny faces in your life, just remember:

“I’ll trim, pinch, and twirl,
But if you don’t like it
You ain’t my girl.”

P.S. For anyone previously inclined and/or inspired by this article, Jonathon Harris is interested in organizing a beard tasting for
some time in late January or early Feb. So if you’re hankering for a hunk ‘a aftergrowth, please feel free
to call Jon at his home mornings, afternoons, or ridiculously late at night.

The writer exists through some grand coincidence and is a junior at Davidson because he has always done his homework.
He writes a column for the paper because he knows people. Selah.

ATTENTION
Sign-Ups For
UNION PRESIDENT
UNION VICE PRESIDENT-CO-CURRICULAR
UNION VICE-PRESIDENT SOCIAL
YSSC PRESIDENT
YSSC VICE PRESIDENT
STUDENT SOLICITOR
DEFENSE ADVISOR

Begin: Jan. 15
End: Jan. 22, 5 p.m.
Sign Up In the Dean of Students Office
Elections will be held Jan. 29

America Continued from Page 6

...than face life in a world with honest representatives and equitable foreign policy. This tendency...On the part of the American
people to encourage egocentrism (national and personal) in our elected officials has placed us in a very delicate position. The
President has done exactly what the American public elected him to do: he has taken a hard-line, offensive position in
order to ensure that we can remain comfortable in our gluttony. The only problem is that we are now up
against an individual and a nation that refuse to accept the proposal that what is best for the United States
is best for them. Not only do they refuse that proposal, but they do so with the support of a
formidable amassment of soldiers whose willingness to die in defense of their soil surely far exceeds the willingness of American
soldiers to die in trying to take it from them. History has taught us that the only way to defeat
a people whose culture, pride, persistence, and courage make them more willing to die than surrender is through the unspeakable
horror of nuclear devastation. The United States has already been guilty of damning one country to the suffering that accompanies
that kind of warfare. To even contemplate doing so again would prove to God and man the ugly fact that
we in the United States value our comfort, our pride, and our corrupt politicians more than the lives of all
people that aren’t “on our side.” What a bummer that would be.

Seriously, in an ideal situation the students would work in conjunction with the administration. The faculty would probably approve of
and require professional supervision before anything got off the ground. I imagine some sort of revision of the existing evaluation
to include a simple and brief questionnaire intended for publications. The questions would be debated by students and faculty. The
data from the questionnaire could be processed at the same time the administration reads the student evaluations. Scantron sheets might
help reduce labor. Computers might perhaps ease the burden of student labor, improving the quality of the product from that
of the pre-word-processing seventies.

During drop-add or registration wouldn’t it be helpful if Davidson had its own report of the faculty? To be done
well means to satisfy both standards of objectivity and fairness, for the faculty’s sake, but also the product must be
valuable for the students. A product like this should attempt to serve every student. What type of information is pertinent
even to a majority of students? Would not giving a record of the average hours students spent studying for each
class help the students who are interested in the subject no matter how hard it is? Could the publication include
evaluations of entire programs like the Beaufort, N.C., Montpelier, France, Wurtzburg, Germany, India, or Classics Abroad programs? Or advice about
Humanities, the concentration in International studies, the concentration in gender studies, pre-medicine, or individual majors?

Being a junior, I can evaluate fairly well on the basis of experience and word of mouth. The freshmen and
sophomores have a different situation. To have known more specific information the summer before my freshman year would have helped
me to avoid several crucial errors I made that still affect me as a junior. The bottom line is whether
taking the time to collect and publish such information would be worth it for enough students. It would probably make
sense to find out what other schools offer such a service and model one from theirs. I doubt anyone has
the desire or energy to begin something like this from scratch. We can hardly get our yearbook going. But the
seemingly apathetic, conservative-minded Davidson populace might be more interested in something which could, if done right, improve the quality of
their education. If that doesn’t interest you, envision elevated GPAs.

Such hypothetical questions I leave up to anyone who cares to follow up on this idea. Talk with an SGA
representative or write something to The Davidsonian. I believe it is a good idea and worth discussion. Rather than calling
for the revision of the advisory system, which would be a monumental task, let's consider this doable one. If enough
people like myself have a spiritual crisis every registration or Drop-Add period, or have suffered with a bonehead for an
entire semester, then it is worth the initial step of existing as an idea. If in time the idea becomes
reality, super. We do pay for this education and have the right to have a say in what goes on,
if we act responsibly. If not, learn from your mistakes. With the fact in mind that the evaluations would influence
the peer group and not just the professor, it could be argued that the grade the student is expecting to
receive would be less likely to heavily influence the evaluation. If the student recognizes that the accuracy of other students
directly influences the quality of the product and thereby benefits him or her directly, he or she would be encouraged
to report accurately and without malice.
