10 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

Transfer? Continued from page 9

If people start selecting and excluding, a portion of the student body is eliminated. Also, in a school this size, you’re sure to know, or at least recognize, someone everywhere you go on campus. This familiarity adds to the genuinely fun atmosphere of Davidson social life. At a Saturday night fraternity party, a girl visiting from Furman commented that social life here seemed “really open and that no one seemed to be afraid to be himself [herself].” Her statement may be a bit idealistic about life here, but one is more comfortable having fun and being oneself when the environment and the people in it are familiar. And of course, it goes without saying that Davidson students are the de-stressing experts. Sure, there are the super-gifted students here who aren’t having many problems at all and may even be considering transferring to a harder school (a scary thought), but the majority of students here are struggling right alongside me. Okay, maybe everyone hasn’t heard and doesn’t care about Davidson, and so what if my friends are playing harder than they are working; I think I’ll stay here for now. My grandfather worked hard and has become a very successful, happy, and down-to-earth person that I am proud of. In respect to my dear friends, if I succeed in graduating from Davidson, I will probably be making twice as much as they will and will enjoy my work more than they will. Some short-term advantages are that this college has almost no hicks (NOT to be confused with southerners) and is ‘culturally diverse’ (my roommate is from London). Furthermore, social life here is far from non-existent. So, if I have caused some of you to question the basics and meanings of life, which would be quite a feat,

Burrows Continued from page 9

having to open a new box. The dispensers take care of all our worries and make breakfast just a little easier for all of us.

5) Similarly, we are fortunate that Davidson saw fit to provide us with a juke-box in the Union. Students can now listen to Barry Manilow at any time of the day. This is so considerate; I missed my stereo whenever I entered the cafe. This really useful machine has already proven to be a great source of comfort for me.

6) It seems that 1991 has really been a year for useful material benefits, things which we can all appreciate. The re-carpeting of the guest-house is just one example. I find it reassuring that visitors to the college can enjoy the benefits of home. One must admit the last carpet was really a little bit vulgar, and Davidson cannot afford this social faux pas.

7) One must not forget that the majority of the tuition fees are actually used to further the educa-

Literate? Then Do Something With it! Write For Campus Living Call Leigh McKeever or May Martin

INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

Boston University Internship Programs
London, England
Paris, France
Sydney, Australia
Washington, D.C.
Summer Programs_ Greece, London, Madrid, Monaco, Padova, Paris, Sydney, USSR/Eastern Europe, Washington, D.C. For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to: Boston University, International Programs, 232 Bay State Road, Box JR, Boston, MA 02215 — 617/353-9888

Explore the World Through Study Abroad
Language/Liberal Arts Programs
Grenoble, France
Haifa, Israel
Madrid, Spain
Niamey, Niger
Oxford, England
Padova, Italy

Name
Address
City
State
Zip
Phone
College/University

Summer ☐ Fall ☐ Spring ☐ 19__

Internship Programs
Language Programs
Summer Programs

London
Grenoble
Oxford
Greece
Padova
USSR
Paris
Haifa
Padova
London
Paris
Washington
Sydney
Madrid
Sydney
Washington
Niamey
Monaco

All I can say is that maybe we are here at Davidson simply to ‘get a life’... hmmmmmm. Besides, what would life be without our weekly Grammar Review Quizzes, Hums, Essays, and those 100-page reading assignments to be read in our ‘leisure’ time? You tell me!

COTTON FOR CAMPUS WEAR
Sweaters
Khaki Pants
Cardigans
Rugby Shirts
Turtlenecks
Sport Shirts
Mock Turtles
Dress Shirts
Jackets
Boxers

Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN
John Mack & Son
For 79 Continuous Years
128 North Main Street
9 AM till 6 PM, Mon thru Fri, till 5 PM Saturday
Downtown Mooresville

The library currently subscribes to three different papers from Great Britain. This is very useful, especially since one of these papers is The Daily Telegraph. It is reassuring that the college supports the British newspaper industry. No one in Britain reads the Telegraph, so it is kind of Davidson to keep this really informative and unbiased newspaper in print.

Really useful additions to the library this year include the new CHAL booths. I am relieved that Davidson has finally recognized the need for secrecy when checking upon the availability of books in the library. I always find spying a great problem; now I can check CHAL in the privacy of my own booth.

Davidson also sees fit to educate students on world affairs. The printing of the Geographical Awareness quiz, taken by Freshmen, was well worth the money and time that it cost. Although we are still waiting for the results, it is reassuring to realize that we know so little. The money spent by the college in making sure I was aware of my ignorance was very well spent.

The most useful thing that Davidson has spent money on this year, however, is without a doubt, the Security Handbook. This bright yellow book provided me with a lot of new, useful knowledge. I am now aware that it is dangerous to walk alone through the center of Charlotte at 3:00 am. I also realize that it is foolish not to lock my bicycle if I leave it outside the dorm. Well, I never! Thank you, Davidson - that really was money well-spent.

PHOTOGRAPHERS
We Need a

M.D. J.D. M.B.A.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.
CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.
LSAT * GMAT * GRE * MCAT