. THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

American Energy For Our Future

The Persian Gulf War: "This Is The

By David Smyth '92

I hope that our government, including both the executive and legislative branches, is learning the indisputable lesson from the crisis in the Persian Gulf: That lesson, in case it has escaped anyone with all the hoopla over the war, is that dependence on foreign oil is fatal to our citizens in several ways and that a decent energy policy is urgently needed. The United States is in a quandary right now because of precautions we have not taken. Our involvement in the Middle East at least partly results from a need to protect our oil interests there and, thus, our fragile economy. It is no secret that we are in the midst of a full-fledged recession these days. Even George Bush and Alan Greenspan have started to abandon the euphemistic “temporary lull in activity” for more realistic terms. So, there we are, slugging it out in the desert to keep crucial oilfields in friendly hands. Yet, this is not the only reason for a sensible energy policy, though it may be the most immediately compelling one. Our natural environment would benefit immensely if we were to switch our focus to alternative fuels such as natural gas and solar and wind power. Also, huge amounts of American capital would be staying in the good old U.S. of A. rather than feeding the proverbial hand that is getting ready to bite us.

We sit in the middle of massive, untapped energy sources every time we go out to the Lake Campus to read or throw a frisbee. The sun that draws us out there in the first place is an endless supply of heat and light even with no human intervention. With technology that is already available, our houses could be heated, our cars driven, and our industrial plants run, at least partly, by solar energy. The wind that knocks our pages around as we concentrate on Augustine or Shakespeare could be harnessed to provide the same effects. Is it silly to suggest that these clean and inexhaustible energies be explored and expanded to reduce our addiction to Persian Gulf oil? Even cleaner-burning natural gas would ease the strain on the overloaded atmosphere and relax our enslavement to threats of OPEC unity. We spend inordinate amounts of money on petroleum no matter how much a barrel of crude oil costs. Throwing energy dollars outside the country is folly when our own economy so desperately needs internal stimulation. Does it make sense to anyone to pay exorbitant prices for oil to dictatorial states that could be assembling their war machines as we smile and write them the fat checks? Why is it such a novel idea to search for energy resources within the bounds of our own nation, hiring our own people who need the work? This argument should not be misconstrued as a xenophobic reaction to non-Americans, but merely as a common-sensical approach to making America stronger.

As many people have said since August 2, if Kuwait’s chief export product were oranges, our troops would very likely be at home training for the next war instead of fighting in this one. The less Americans exercise their influence there, the better off everyone will be in the long run. Obviously, we should play the role of the mediator in conflicts if invited to do so. But we are generally disliked and sometimes hated in the region and would do well to stay out of harm’s way by intervening only when we absolutely must. We cannot do so while we are forced to pander to the producers and controllers of crude oil. We could save the lives of real, live people if we only had a sensible energy policy. That the United States should be able to empower itself is so obvious that it should not require substantiation.

Scott. Continued from Page

at the laundry where Manjooran was shut out. Covington took the Commons 0,2,0 (though since my tour on Friday afternoon the other candidates have made progress in this area. The large yellow “P’s” plastered on the ice machines deserve special mention I think). In the surprise of the weekend, everyone whiffed at the library. At first, this oversight offended my political sensibilities, but then I realized that no one wants to be known as the Geek candidate, which is cool. The snub of the Baker Sports Complex, however, I found appalling. If the candidates could have colored in all those flowers and received attention from rapacious lawmakers. (A frat house poll may have been interesting, but I only had time to consider important campus outlets.)

I recognize that flat statistics can be misleading. Subtle and often more valuable qualities must not be overlooked. Thus, a brief examination of poster aesthetics seems appropriate. The stark simplicity and informative qualities of Carberry’s “Just Do It” spin-off merit kudos. Basic and to the point. The other candidates, however, went that extra mile. Covington’s “Grow With Cammie” and flowers reflect an eye for beauty, hard work, and commitment to detail. She must herself. Manjooran, once again, takes the checkered flag. Multiple levels of the.The lack of discussion about the subject is even more disconcerting when one considers that we will revert to our old habits once the war is over if basic attitudes are not changed in the people and our elected representatives. The time to correct ourselves is now to prevent environmental suffocation and a repeat of the military fiasco we are now involved in. David Smyth is a junior English major from Seabrook Island, S.C.

Firstly, "P" stands for the candidate himself, Prem. A nice literal beginning. Secondly, it represents the position after which these candidates strive, President. Thirdly, of course, we see suggested the general character of the aforementioned. Finally, and most subtly, we find further affirmation of Prem’s dominance in campus bathrooms. You might say that if we’re gonna “Grow With Cammie,” we could, well, “P” with Prem. We have a winner, folks! As the only one on campus qualified to vote on the real issues at hand, I, as founder and sole member of the DEPTH, RELEVANCE! society, unequivocally endorse Prem Manjooran for President of our SGA. Remember people, you reap what you sow. Poster harvest will commence.

It is 12:30 in the morning, around one week after the beginning of the Gulf War. I have just finished perusing the Davidsonian (Jan. 14). There were several quite eloquently written opinions, both for and against military action. Everyone has an opinion. But it seems to me, that amid all the prognosticating, postulating, threatening, and opinionating that went on before January 17th, one thing was overlooked... that this was going to be a real war, with real people really dying. This is no Ortmayer poli-sci game, no Nintendo, or even Libya. This (Coke theme, please) is the real thing. This fact is clearer now that the shooting has started. It wasn’t that clear when you look back on editorials of even two short weeks ago. Saddam has proven himself worthy of his reputation, and his destruction. However, my two jubilant hawks, let us not forget who made this tin-pot bully into a “world menace.” Oh yeah, the very countries, almost to the man, that are now fighting him (except, of course, cowardly Germany). My, but doesn’t that moral ground begin to feel soft.

There are other moral issues on the agenda. What a nice ally we have in Hafez Assad—if you hold him up to a light and look real close, you’ll see Saddam glaring back at you. And the Palestinians—like it or not, Hussein achieved “linkage”—something will have to be done for them. But more importantly, and I think this is much more easily seen, Kyle and Seth, your moral ground which you so trumpetingly hold, will quickly turn into a sinkhole. I, like many others, find it hard to put down thoughts on an event so momentous. But one of the pieces in The Davidsonian struck me to write.

Seth J. McLaughlin and Kyle J. Kinner (just how do you both hold a pen at the same time?) once again proved themselves quite capable of taking someone else’s thoughts, rolling them around in their heads a little, and spewing them back out again in hardly-altered form. Yes, Kyle and Seth, for once your beloved right wing has found moral ground it is capable of holding. As Time magazine (Jan. 28) said, “If there is such a thing as a just war, George Bush has unleashed one on Saddam Hussein.” Fine and dandy. But a war of any magnitude, especially one this big, is not something to go rushing into with a “hooray, now we finally get to do it right!” attitude. I find myself wondering if anyone has seen our two editorialists in line at the local recruiter’s office.

As I write, there are millions of gallons of crude oil flowing into the Persian Gulf. It is a disaster 12 times the size of the Exxon Valdez spill! But even this tragedy pales in comparison to the human loss. This, my friends, is a terrible war. By opening those oil faucets, by torturing American pilots, by forcing 4 million Jews to don gas masks (think of it...), and by continuing to fight a hopeless war, outside of the States, America has just done a 180-degree turn. “Since when,” people are asking over here, “has the U.S. been on the side of International Law?” Ahem... Kyle and Seth... do you recall a certain World Court decision that was ignored by the White House? Do you remember U.S. support for El Salvadoran death squads? Pinochet? Duvalier? Boy, this ground is sinking fast.

One thing is clear. George Bush has seen fit (and it can only be weakly disputed, rightly so) to go to war—real, horrible, ugly, brutal, bloody, cruel war—to enforce the will of the United Nations at a time when it corresponded with the economic interests of the United States. The next time a defense of the “new-world order” comes about, the U.S. had better once again be on the front line of the struggle. Whether or not it is economically good to do so. Whether or not there is oil at stake. If not, Kyle and Seth, your moral ground, which you so trumpetingly hold, will quickly turn into a sinkhole. And you can crow loudly while we watch you sink, with all of the post-war hopes of American moral leadership, and all of the gallons of sacrificed American blood.

John Burns is a junior political science major currently studying in Montpellier, France.