THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
SEAN LIND, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN, Campus Living Editor
LEE MCKEEVER, Campus Living Editor
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

Oh No, Not Again

It’s that time of year again. The arrival of a new season seems to guarantee that Davidson will be included
in yet another ranking or college guide. Last summer, Fortune magazine ranked Davidson seventh out of 66 schools in number
of graduates who become chief executive officers of major U.S. companies. In the fall, U.S. News & World Report -
in their annual “beauty contest” - rated us as the tenth best liberal arts college in the nation. Now, this
winter, Davidson has been included in Mr. Buckley’s new conservative guide to America’s 50 best liberal arts schools.

Some parts of the guide are applaudable. For instance, the editors have singled out Davidson for its emphasis on undergraduate
teaching and the strong honor system. It also mentions Davidson’s long and hard work ethic. What is bothersome with the
work, however, is its political intent. Naturally, any sort of ranking is harmful; but a political label is clearly more
dangerous. Stereotyping Davidson’s culture as conservative, “both social and political,” will hurt efforts by the college to recruit both minority
faculty members and students, an area the administration has been somewhat successful with in the past. Furthermore, the guide makes
the assumption that the hiring of African-American candidates will sacrifice the academic quality of our institution. This narrow-minded perspective is
not only an insult to the minority members of the faculty, but the entire faculty body.

The guide is also factually wrong: it claims that Davidson is located twenty miles south of Charlotte. As one student
cleverly commented, there are probably a lot of conservatives in Rock Hill searching for our school. Our faculty members and
the administration need no “holier-than-thou” lecture regarding the future of Davidson from the conservative guide. In the past, they have
been instrumental in making our institution what it is. Certainly, they will be instrumental in making Davidson what it will
be. By diversifying our curriculum and faculty, Davidson is preparing itself for a world that is gradually growing interdependent. Our
selection to the new guide is not a distinction - it is disgusting.

J.C.

The Davidsonian is published every Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail
and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Offices are located
on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do
not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Lehman Lauds Montgomery

To the Editor:

Thank you, Will Montgomery! You definitely have a good perspective, one that is a welcome relief from the Davidsonian. However,
you may like to know that the U.S. Corps of Engineers is actually an integral part of the Army (the
proper title being the “U.S. Army Corps of Engineers). I agree wholeheartedly that if mandatory service is required of our
young men and women, there are many options from which to choose. You have outlined several in your article; here
are a few more. The Peace Corps is a definite option for most college graduates, teaching in inner-city schools or
in rural Appalachian schools, working for United Way or the Red Cross. There is a lot a person could do
to better this country. I chose to serve in the military and am currently a Signal Corps officer with a
National Guard unit. Granted,the military paid for part of my college education (for which I am grateful) but I have
no qualms about my current status (i.e., serving in the military) or the possibility of serving in the Persian Gulf.
(I don’t want to go to war but realize that if ordered to active duty, I will go without hesitation.)
I for one believe that this is, at least partly, a war fought for economic reasons. What war hasn’t been
essentially economic on one level or another? I also commend you for defending those who may appear to be in
one “camp” or another on this issue, yet reality may be quite different. I was an art major and an
ROTC cadet. I am now a military officer and an artist. I wear penny loafers and Birkenstocks, tie-dyes and oxford
button-downs. Perhaps I am simply an anachronism but perhaps not.

Sincerely,
KAT LEHMAN ‘87
Slide curator at Davidson
February 3, 1991

Mount Defines Feminism

To the Editor:

The American Heritage Dictionary defines “feminism” as “a doctrine that advocates or demands for women the same rights granted men,
as in political and economic status.” Unfortunately, we have recently lost this clear meaning, and feminism has come to mean
the female equivalent of chauvinism. Much to my dismay and disgust, Davidson women when asked tend to say, “No, of
course I’m not one of those types!” If not envisioning a lesbian with a gun and a button reading “I
HATE MEN” they at least picture someone condescending to males, blaming them for all evil in the world, and trying
to take over exactly the same dominating spot that men hold now. This perversion of the definition has perhaps come
from extreme radicals who often dominate the spotlight in order to overstate a point, but in reality these are false
representations anyway.

As Davidson women, we spend a great deal of time and money to get a good education in order to
succeed at anything from rearing kids to doctoring. If you are putting all this energy into it, how can any
one of you dare tell me that you are not a feminist? Do you want to work as hard at
your career as a man with the same job and get paid the same amount? Do you feel you should
have an equal opportunity to even apply for such a job? Do you think you should be allowed to do
everything a man is allowed to do and receive the respect he does? If you answered yes to any of
these questions, uh-oh, guess what that means. Madam (or Sir), we are sorry to inform you that you are a
feminist by the true and original definition of the word.

As it often does, the solution lies in the middle, not to either extreme of dominance or submission. True feminists
reach toward equality. The reason this is called “feminism” and not “equalism” is just that females must strive toward the
middle Promised Land where males already stand firmly, and sometimes they do not realize we can all stand up there
together.

Sincerely,
JANE MOUNT ‘93
February 5, 1991

Thanks From The Union

To: All the Wonderful People who helped load and unload, set-up, feed, and publicize the Acting Company for Two Gentlemen
of Verona and Romeo and Juliet. Over 160 people helped us present the two nights of Shakespeare last week. We
don’t have all the names, but to the partial list below we say a huge THANK YOU! Without your help,
we couldn’t have mounted the production. If we forgot your name, please forgive us -- We thank you anyway: Cynthia
Lewis, The English Department, Theater Department, Pat Burgess & College Relations, Babs McKelway and Friends of the Arts, Joy Hord,
Mandy Allen, Erik Christensen and tech crew, Mike Malloy, Peter, Brian Kurtly, Custodians in Chambers and Richard Caldwell, Union Board,
members of the football team and Dave Fagg, pledge classes from Kappa Sig, PiKA, KA, SigEp, Harry and Tom, Tony
Perez, David Martin, Sally McMillen, Ushers, Liz Moodie, Julie Dixon, Missy Anderson, and all those wonderful people we begged as
they ate in the cafe or left class!

From: The College Union, the Union staff, and Kim Cartron, Co-Curricular Vice-President.
February 1, 1991

See Page 8 For More Letters
Write For Opinions
Call David "Peanut" Scott
