THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

Release two separate (well, sorta) albums at the same time, each one will be looked at individually. Use Your Illusion
I is the stronger of the two LPs. The album starts out with some of Slash’s characteristic guitar crunch on
the track “Right Next Door to Hell,” a song very reminiscent of Appetite. “Live and Let Die” is a very
powerful and impressive cover of the Paul McCartney classic. Perhaps the most rocking tune on Illusion I is the seventh
track, “Bad Obsession.” This tune opens with a honky-tonk harmonica riff, followed by a Page-esque slide guitar from Slash. Rose’s
lyrics aren’t the most intelligent; but, for this type of raunch-rock, they’re just about perfect. The two strongest tracks happen
to be the slower ballads, “Don’t Cry” and “November Rain.” The first song, “Don’t Cry,” is in the typical style
of hard rock ballads, but the strength of Rose’s voice and the beauty of Slash’s guitar work lift it above
the normal, ho-hum associated with this type of song. “November Rain,” however, is not the typical ballad. Rose was quoted
sometime before the album’s release saying that if this track wasn’t perfect, he would leave the band. Sure, Rose is
a manic depressive who spouts off whenever he feels like it, but his determination seems to have paid off. “November
Rain” is a very powerful song that features not only Rose’s vocal talent but his talent as a pianist as
well. The song rolls peacefully on until a fade-out at the seven-minute mark leads into a triumphant resurgence of Rose’s
wails and Slash’s leads. Two other tracks of mention are “The Garden,” a song that includes the vocal help of
gore-rocker Alice Cooper, and “Coma,” a plodding, overbearing song that reaches out and simply puts you in a coma (especially
if the decibel level is around 120 db). Overall, this 16-track, 76-minute offering by the Gunners is a strong mix
of the hard rock, soft ballads, and overall power that has propelled them to the top of the charts.

Use Your Illusion II is, however, not quite as strong of an effort as the first Illusion. The album is
very promising at the beginning with the inclusion of “Civil War,” a song Guns N’ Roses previously released as a
part of a benefit album to aid Romanian children. This song, unlike many of the others, does show some intelligence
on the part of Rose. “For all I’ve seen has changed my mind/ but still the wars go on as
the years go by/ with no love of God orWall, and Bob Guccione, Jr., to whom Axl loudly exclaims, “What,
you pissed off cuz your dad gets more (women) than you do?”. “Pretty Tied Up?”, subtitled “The Perils of Rock’N’Roll
Decadence”, is an upbeat, rocking tune that is again filled with Rose’s ingenious use of expletive. But if you can
stomach it, the words really do fit the foul-mouthed nature of the music. “Don’t Cry” is also present on Illusion
II with an alternate set of lyrics. This is preceded by “You Could Be Mine”, a song featured in the
movie Terminator 2. Finally, Illusion II closes with “My World”, a psycho-rap soliloquy written by Rose. This is definitely a
twist from the G’n’R norm that may be interesting once or twice, but past that is an annoying postscript to
an otherwise decent album.

From The Desk of The IPC: What Is This Thing About PHISH?
By Chris Hoveland

When it comes to music, are you tired of, “Yo homey, I’m the baddest rapper this side of town?” Tired
of, “Roll away, roll away, the dew the dew; roll away roll away etc. etc.?” Or how about, “I gotta
tear in my beer, but I got a dip in my lip?” Are you ready for something new, but still
familiar? Do you like to dance? Or do you like to just listen to music? My solution, as if you
couldn’t guess, is Phish.

Lately I’ve heard these three responses to Phish publicity: (1) “Hoveland, that’s all you ever talk about!” (2) “Who are
these clowns anyway?” and (3) “Yeah, I got my ticket yesterday and I can’t wait for the show.” What I
want to do is turn those “number two’s” into “number three’s.”

The most important thing to know about Phish is that they’re fun. The audience dances to the high-energy rhythm. Their
music is a diverse selection ranging from bluegrass, to blues, funk, even Calypso and Latin jazz, and straight-up rock-and-roll. Although
they’ve been known to play “Whipping Post,” “Highway to Hell,” and “Touch Me” by The Doors, Phish is not a
cover band. You might recognize what sounds like a typical blues or bluegrass song, but Phish always adds a new
jazzy element which at first throws you off, but it's fresh—a kind of pleasant surprise.

Phish is unique. All of their originals are exactly that, original. You’ve never heard anything like them, and nobody but
Phish would be able to play them. Their music is very new, creative, even weird, but it is also very
good. There is nothing like Phish (except possibly The Grateful Dead, a touchy issue which I’ll address later). Their specialty
is their live show which often includes a barbershop quartet sung a capella, trampoline-jumping from the guitarist and bassist during
the big jams, bizarre outfits from the drummer who also performs trombone and vacuum cleaner solos.

Their lyrics are about... well, it’s difficult to say. They’re nonsensical and generally meaningless, but musical. The words sound good,
and they’re funny—they will make you laugh as you dance. Some have compared Phish to The Grateful Dead; in fact,
some have even abandoned the Dead to follow Phish. The two bands have a few things in common: both celebrate
different styles of musical composition and arrangement; both are “into” jazz; their music serves as a means for escape, as
opposed to a politically active variety; musicianship is a high priority (perhaps “musical virtuosity” is a better term, particularly for
Phish).

Another response I’ve heard when publicizing Phish is, “I’ve never heard anything of theirs.” That’s because they’re from Burlington, Vermont,
and didn’t make it down south until last summer. Another reason is that their album, Lawn Boy, is on a
small New England label. Several major recording companies have been begging Phish to sign with them, but because Phish has
been successful totally on their own, and because they want to maintain their artistic freedom and stay close to their
devoted fans, they have been very cautious and reluctant to become commercialized. Chances are that Phish could sign on a
major label soon, which is all the more reason to catch them now while they’re young and on the cutting
edge.

Phish is fun. Phish is good. Phish at Davidson is inexpensive—at $4, that’s about 1/3 their usual charge. Even if
you’ve never heard anything by them before, it’s only a $4 risk plus a few hours, but trust me, it
will be well worth it. Don’t hesitate—there are many folks in the public who will snatch up these tickets in
no time. Go by the ticket office any weekday between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m., and get fired up for
the biggest Davidson College concert event of the year.

Well, there you have it. Use Your Illusion I and II are here, and they’re all over the place. Never
before have record stores opened at 12:01 a.m. to sell an album released that day, and most of these places
were sold out before a few hours. Personally, I feel that Guns N’ Roses should have consolidated the albums into
a double album (disc). That means less time of recording, and any continuity between the two albums would remain intact.
At times the band seems to have placed a track on the albums without much forethought and with the sole
intention of filling more time. Plus, the packaging issue over the release of two separate albums was quite heated between
G’n’R, Geffen Records, and environmentalist groups. But I strongly recommend Use Your Illusion I, and I guess Illusion II as
well. And, hell, it would be pointless to buy one without the other.
