4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

Campus Crime: B-ball Lockers, Outdoors Office Robbed

Davidsonian Staff Reports

Henry Stefon Nixon and Richard Kenneth Ingle were arrested and taken to the Mecklenburg County Jail early Wednesday morning. They
were each charged with carrying a concealed weapon and attempted breaking and entering of an automobile on campus.

A Davidson student spotted one black male and one white male getting out of a vehicle and then looking into
cars in the Satellite parking area with a flashlight. Davidson officers Ramsey and Misenheimer were notified and they identified the
suspects’ vehicle in the North side of the Copeland House parking lot. The officers waited for approximately 30 minutes in
the Grey House parking lot for the suspects to get back in their vehicle. They then pulled over the vehicle
on Main Street.

Richard Ingle, the driver of the car, gave the officers permission to search the vehicle. In the center console, the
officers found a Davis .380 caliber handgun with a scratched-off identification number. The search also turned up items that are
believed to have been stolen from Davidson students. They included fog lights, a car stereo, speakers, a radar detector, a
CD tuner, and other items. Also found were tools which can be used to break into automobiles. Officers found a
box-cutting knife in the shoe of Henry Nixon.

Davidson police are confident that the suspects will be faced with more charges as they are able to locate the
owners of the items found in their vehicle.

Basketball Locker Room Robbed

Thursday afternoon the basketball locker room was broken into during practice and personal items worth an estimated $1207 were taken.
The locker room was reportedly left unlocked because it was adjacent to the occupied training room. The locker room was
left unattended from approximately 3:40 - 5:45 p.m. According to the victims, it is possible that the front door of
the Baker Sports Complex was also left unattended.

The victims and the stolen items of value were as follows:

Sterling Freeman: gold nugget ring with a white stone, approximate size 8, worth approximately $100.

Detlef Musch: black leather wallet worth $25 and $22 in cash.

Jason Zimmerman: Gucci gold link 7" bracelet worth $185 and 18" gold rope chain with gold nugget cross worth $255.

Paul Denmond: black eelskin wallet worth $50 and $50 in cash.

J.D. Heuer: gold rope link 18" necklace with gold and speckled diamond “E” worth $355, black eelskin wallet worth $20,
and $60 in cash.

Linton Elliott: leather maroon wallet worth $40 and a gold plated 18" necklace worth $45.

Davidson Outdoors Office Robbed

The Davidson Outdoors office, located in Johnston Gymnasium, was broken into and robbed sometime between November 4 and November 10.
Gregory Sheppard, the Davidson Outdoors program director, reported that $300 in cash was removed from a desk drawer. The money
was a cash advance from the Controller’s Office for one of Sheppard’s programs. Currently, there are no suspects.
