THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

Attention Alumni: Save Our Country

Davidson must always seek students of character, of general as well as academic ability, of loyalty to the ideals of
the College, and of promise for future usefulness... Davidson’s primary purpose is to develop persons of humane instincts, of disciplined
and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.

Hoping these excerpts from Davidson’s Statement of Purpose still hold true, the editors of The Davidsonian respectfully ask our alumni
to do the country a favor: run for public office. We believe that the United States is in desperate need
of men and women with integrity and a commitment to service to lead the nation into the next century. How
long our country will last while power is held by the likes of that lecher Kennedy, that plagiarist Biden, that
self-celebrating sophist Bush (et alia ad nauseam), is anybody’s guess. America can do better. An examination of our current economic
situation suggests that we must do better.

The editors are not asking Davidson’s graduates to run in the hopes that more conservatives or liberals will hold office
across the country. Our request is non-partisan. We believe that Davidson graduates have been taught to reason well enough to
hold considered political opinions. Davidson’s alumni, we trust, do not accept the knee-jerk sideshow crap employed by Republicans and Democrats
to swing votes on non-issues. Instead, their liberalism or conservatism is based in clear and deliberate analysis of the problems
facing our nation.

We also know that Davidson graduates can be trusted not to fall prey to the trappings of office that have
so terribly ensnared the majority of our nation's political figures. Our faith in our alumni stems from Davidson’s commitment to
service. Political activity, Davidson graduates know, is just that, another form of public service.

Unfortunately, most of those who currently hold office believe that their main objective is to stay there. Re-election becomes more
important than actual accomplishment, and our elected officials too often take the easy route of becoming the pawn of wealthy
special interest groups who will finance their incessant campaigning, as long as they are willing to play ball. We believe
that Davidson effectively teaches its students that true power lies in accomplishment rather than elective appeal. Our alumni, we trust,
have the strength of character to know when to play politics, and when to make the unpopular decisions they know
to be right.

We hope some of you will consider a temporary leave of absence from your current careers to serve in your
local, state, or national government, where you might apply those lessons of character you learned while at Davidson.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Pace Responds to F.L.A.G. Critics

To the Editor:

In response to the letters by Lucy Herriott and Kelly Perry and “A Davidson Parent,” I must dispute their notion
that Davidson should not support the increased awareness of homosexuals and homosexuality on campus through the establishment of a F.L.A.G.
chapter because Davidson was “founded on...Christian values.” Christ teaches love, not judgment; He asks that we accept each other for
whatever we may be just as He unconditionally accepts us. Individuals who would claim that it is Christian to condemn
and persecute any one person, not to mention an entire section of the population, are simply using the Bible to
justify their own fears and narrow-minded prejudices.

Sincerely,
Chris Pace, '93

Hines Rebukes F.L.A.G. Opponents

To the Editor:

I am writing to all of the parents who may be opposed to F.L.A.G. because of a religious belief. I
understand that your religion views homosexuality as a sin. That is your choice to believe in such a manner. Mine
does not. It seems you would like to censor (yes, I used that dreaded word) my opportunities at Davidson because
of your conservative beliefs. Before being so quick to judge the organization, why don’t you take a look at its
purposes:
1) to protect the rights of lesbians and gays
2) to further the understanding of family and friends about homosexuality
3) to provide a center of support for the gay community
4) to educate the public about A.I.D.S.
5) to promote equal rights for all, and
6) to combat homophobia.

Your children are old enough to decide if they want

See "F.L.A.G." on page 6

Thanks From Project Life

To the Editor:

The 1991 Bone Marrow Committee would like to extend its warmest thanks to those who have contributed their time and
efforts to our cause. Included are Rusk and Pika with their service auction, SAE with their Bike-A-Thon, and Warner Hall
with their study break. We would also like to thank all the individuals who have bought our T-shirts and/or sponsored
themselves with the suggested $60. The Bone Marrow Committee has worked very hard this semester and we are very excited
to see your support on the day of the drive - Wednesday, November 20!

Sincerely,
The Bone Marrow Committee

We Can Help the Homeless

To the Editor:

My mother brought me a stack of Davidsonians when she came to visit me. The article on the homeless angered
me as much as it seemed to have angered the Davidson campus. I am spending a semester abroad in Paris,
and I pass at least 20 homeless people a day. I have never given a homeless person money, nor had
I ever defended them until I read the comments made by Clarke and McGuffin. I had always held the opinion
that the homeless didn’t want jobs. I almost think the audacity of Clarke and McGuffin was good in that it
drew attention and angered people enough to do something. I know in the future when I walk down the street
that I am not going to look down at the homeless as “losers.” While I still do not think giving
them money is a solution, I do not believe they will get anywhere with “the classified ads.” I do not
believe all homeless are like Len Doucette who seems to have

See "Homeless" on page 6

Just Take Off The Hat.

To the Editor:

Philip Atchison, in his article on the “no hats” rule at Baker’s Weight Room, did not confront the issue of
why he insists on wearing his hat. Instead, he unfairly blasted Terry Holland by saying that he is “bitter about
the blandness of his new job” and is “consumed with boredom.” Atchison did not tell us why he is opposed
to removing his hat in the weight room. Does the wearing of a hat while lifting weights help increase muscle
mass? Or is it simply vanity? If a student visited a professor’s office and the professor asked the student to
remove his hat, in all likelihood the student would do so. Why should it be any different when Mr. Holland
makes a similar request? His requests of Davidson students should be taken as seriously as those made by Davidson professors.
It is a simple request Mr. Holland is making of the students. It requires little effort—just take the hat off.
Certainly

See "Hats" on page 6
