THE DAVIDSONIAN  
MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief  
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor  
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor  
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor  
OMA BLAISE - Assistant Editor

The Davidsonian  
TOM KOONCE - News Editor  
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor  
HEATH HARDAGE - Opinions Editor  
PETER FISHER - Associate Opinions Editor  
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor

Founded in 1914  
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor  
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor  
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor  
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor  
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor  
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager  
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager

---

Welcome Back

The end of August once again marks the return of Davidson students back to their beloved campus for yet another year. Another year of classes, athletics, school activities, and, of course, life on Patterson Court. Cars line the paths in front of the dormitories and apartments, wood which will someday become lofts crowd the hallways, recycling containers overflow. Not much is different from any year in the past.

This year, however, The Davidsonian urges the student body to help make things a little bit better than they have been before. Any student at Davidson can contribute to the health of the community, and the Davidsonian board hopes that the students will rise to the challenge at hand by actively engaging in activities which affect the college. Davidson has several organizations, which, with appropriate student involvement, can dramatically improve life in the community. The YSSC, Quips and Cranks, and committees on the Union all add to the school, but in order for these groups to be effective they need your input and participation. Let's not limit our campus activity to showing up for class without a hangover. Instead, let's all take the extra time and effort necessary to engage in a more positive Davidson experience.

---

Leave Them Alone

With the arrival of each freshman class into the ranks of Davidson College comes the inevitable barrage of eager sophomores checking out the new meat and offering the incessant tales of the joys of pledging a fraternity. This sort of rushing usually begins as soon as the first night back parties for upperclassmen are over. Davidson College, however, restricts freshmen from attending parties on the Court until several weeks into the school year. The school bars the freshmen from the Court so that they may adapt smoothly to college life. The policy encourages freshmen to socialize with their classmates, and without the alcohol so easily available on the Court. After several weeks of getting used to Davidson, freshmen can participate in Patterson Court activities.

Unfortunately, the spirit of the college's policy is all but ignored by most fraternity members. The houses skirt the policy by rushing freshmen at hall parties and off-campus events during the first two weeks of school, fearing that other fraternities will "get the jump" on them with the freshman class. Such activity is utterly contradictory to the self-selection system at Davidson. The Davidsonian hopes the Patterson Court houses will agree among themselves to leave the freshmen alone until they are allowed onto the Court. The new students have enough to worry about here without the added concern of being rushed before their time.

---

LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor

---

PHOTO OF THREE MISSING DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES, THE WHITE HOUSEDENIES THEIR AUTHENTICITY, LEE PENNINGTON Associate Photography Editor Andrew Spainhour MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus Manager

The Freshman Experience: Is it really so different?

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

While this space is usually reserved for the "Letters to the Editor" section of The Davidsonian, the lack of any letters yet makes their publication impossible. Andrew Spainhour is a junior from Concord, NC and will be writing a weekly column for our opinions section.

The Davidson freshman experience conjures up vivid memories. Ask any upperclassman. Some will recall with unusual fondness every detail of their first week at Davidson. For them, the year has been preserved on an unending mental videotape, with the rosy spots highlighted, and the tough spots edited out. Others will always remember the searing heat, the seemingly never-ending speeches in Love, the roommate who was allergic to you, your music, and your friends, but they will choose to forget when a faculty advisor spent hours cooking dinner for advisees, giving up the better part of a weekend afternoon. Be they good memories or ones better left forgotten, we all remember what being a freshman was all about, and the stories are colorful.

But why? What, if anything, causes such strength of vision, or actually, revision? Is Davidson really so different that its freshmen’s lives are actually changed inexorably by the experience? I think so. It is worth saying that Davidson, as a community, makes the effort to create and foster a freshman experience that is uncommonly special and occasionally strange. Davidson cherishes cake races, first Davidson kisses, regattas featuring boats made with less than ten dollars, flickerball games, library tours with a cameo appearance made by Dr. Davidson, and, yes, even Dean Terry. The point is, Davidson can brag sincerely, without the vaguest hint of boastful college catalogue linguese, that it treats its freshmen in a unique manner. Davidson certainly never promises its new students perfection (and, by the way, some schools do), yet it does assure each freshman some unforgettable experiences.

At Davidson, you'll never forget your hall counselors, or the first person you actually befriended, or the first time you set foot in the Commons and sensed the smell that would be consistently the same for an entire year. You always remember the Honor Council presentation, the first hall mixer, and the relief you felt when classes began and you could actually rest. Memories,

IT ALL STARTED WITH A SIMPLE LIE TO MAKE LIFE EASIER THEN I LIED TO COVER FOR THAT LIE AND LIED SOME MORE TO COVER UP THOSE LIES