16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With Kathy Beach, Carla Badgett, and Mary Faith Mount: Some of Davidson's Most Devoted

By David Thompson and Walter Price

With the new developments and image changes taking place within the service organizations at Davidson, we thought we'd take some
time this week with some of the leaders in Davidson community service: Kathy Beach, the president of the YSSC; Carla
Badgett, the organization’s secretary and member at large; and Mary Faith Mount, coordinator of the Habitat for Humanity division.

Davidsonian: In your own words, why don’t you give us a brief explanation of the YSSC, its statement of purpose,
and how it operates.

Beach: The purpose of the YSSC is to get as many people involved in service activities as possible at Davidson.
We tend to work within the community as a whole rather than just inside the college itself. We try to
make people aware of problems affecting those in the local community, as well as problems affecting people on a national
or even global level. Several of our programs are structured to help people abroad.

Davidsonian: How many students currently work with YSSC?

Beach: Just counting the coordinators, we have at least 35 people. Within each program, it ranges between 20 and 100
volunteers. So I guess we have a total of about 400 people who have taken part in service projects so
far.

Davidsonian: What is your official relationship with the school’s Service Coordinator? Do you work on projects separately or together?

Beach: Beth Duttera, the service coordinator, manages such projects as the Time to Read Program. SAE began the program, but
now it’s under the control of Beth’s office. She also handles the Bone Marrow drives. She’s like our advisor, and
she works with us, but she handles some special projects through the college’s office.

Badgett: She’s a great resource, especially if you're interested in individualized service projects. She’s got so many connections.

Davidsonian: Describe some of your programs for us.

Beach: There are 15 departments underneath the title of the YSSC, but, let me digress here for a minute, we
changed the name--today. We have to make sure that it gets approved by the SGA, but that shouldn’t be a
problem. We're going to call it Reach Out. YSSC is, well, a bit of a hindrance as a name. Nobody
knows what it stands for around the school. We wanted to come up with a name that was catchy, like
some sort of acronym, but then we settled on Reach Out. If you say “Reach Out At Davidson,” you have
an acronym for ROAD.

Badgett: We also liked Reach Out because it had something of an active connotation attached to it. It’s a name
that suggests being an active member of the college community and the community as a whole.

Davidsonian: What have been some of your most successful programs regarding student participation and community feedback?

Beach: Habitat for Humanity is probably one of our greatest successes. It’s the one most people know about from the
media long before they come to Davidson, and several students are excited about participating as soon as they get here.
We had a little bit of lag last year, as motivation was somewhat low, but we’ve got some new coordinators,
Mary Faith Mount, Andrew Bazemore, Jennifer McDonald, Bill Marcourt, and Lee Hamrick. They started working today in Cornelius at a
schoolhouse, and at the Davidson project, which is down by Bill’s Anchor Grill.

Davidsonian: Mary Faith, why don’t you tell us a little more about what you’ve been doing today (Saturday, 8/31).

Mount: I’m pretty tired from having worked on so many houses, but I’ll try. This morning we worked on the
schoolhouse, which is a cooperative project with a group of parents. Their goal is to refurbish, rewire, replumb, and repaint
a house to turn it into a preschool. We’re hoping to open it on September 16. Next weekend we’ll help
them move in, and they’ll start school soon after. Regarding our projects on Main Street, the framing is already done.
I was there at 10:30 this morning, and the framing which they had started at 8:00 was almost completely finished.
We have students working on it all day today, Sunday.

Badgett: They also have parties at the school sometimes so that the kids and the Davidson students can break the
ice a bit when they meet, and socialize with other pairs later in the year. I think it’s a great
program because it focuses on direct involvement with just one individual child, rather than an abstract service project. It makes
you...Feel that you are making a difference in a specific person’s life. Some of the relationships that have grown out
of the program have been really special and meaningful to Davidson students.

Davidsonian: What other programs work through Reach Out?

Beach: It’s pretty diverse. Just to give you an example, the recycling committee is a part of our organization. We
work in all areas of community service, from personal to environmental. The school is now taking over recycling. The amount
of material was just too much for a small group of students to handle on their own. We had to
depend upon the physical plant to give us a truck to move the stuff around, and they’d give it to
us for, like, an hour on Friday afternoon. We could never get it all done with those impediments. We talked
to the Physical Plant all last year, when Bob Collins arrived, and he suggested that the school take it over.

A few of the many members of the Reach Out organization: On the right are Kathy Beach and Mary Faith
Mount, two of the subjects of this interview. Also pictured: Elizabeth Mitchell and Erin Lee.

We’re having an organizational meeting Wednesday night, which we hope a lot of people will attend. We have projects starting
soon in Moorsville and Charlotte. In Charlotte, we’ll be working on Kennedy Avenue, which has one of the city’s highest
neighborhood crime rates. We hope to help families reclaim the street by refurbishing several houses.

Davidsonian: Tell us about your other projects.

Badgett: I’d say another big one is the Big Brother / Sister, Little Brother / Sister Program. That one has
garnered a great deal of involvement from the students, especially through the eating houses and fraternities. Basically, what happens is
that guys “adopt” boys to be their little brothers, and women “adopt” little girls. The kids come from the Moorsville
and Cornelius elementary schools. You do things with your little sibling that they wouldn’t necessarily get to do otherwise. Not
that they get spoiled by the Davidson students, but they get the kind of adult support from a non-authority figure
which they’ve been lacking.

Beach: Once they get an ID card, they can come and do stuff with their big brother/sister on campus. The
guidance counselors at the schools pick from those children who have requested a big brother or sister and those whose
teachers have suggested that they need the extra guidance. Once they get permission from their parents, they get hooked up
with a Davidson student.

They’ve got these big dumpsters over behind Cornwell Drugs on Watson Street, and every dorm room should soon have its
own recycling bin. Once the bin gets full, there should be spots in each dorm designated as a recycling drop-off
area. You have to bring your bucket and sort the material. The school isn’t going to collect plastic because there
isn’t any money in it, but we encourage you to save it. We’re trying to get them to do it,
but they don’t really want to. The school won’t make much money from recycling, but it’s a pretty good move
on a school’s part. It sounds better to say that the school is responsible for recycling rather than the students.
Another reason is financial: if the school can start recycling cardboard, there will be a great deal more money in
it for them. Until we can get the containers in everybody’s room, there isn’t much we can do.

Davidsonian: What has the Reach Out group got in store for everybody?

Beach: On October 12, we’re going to be starting a “Service Week” at Davidson. The first activity will be through
our program called Arosa House, which is a home for children who have been taken away from their parents by
the courts. We’ll be going into their facility in Charlotte to paint and help fix the place up. At the
end of the week, we’re going to CROP walk.

Badgett: It'll be a very dense week, wherein a lot of things will be happening, all of which can use
an extra hand. Hopefully, this will get the students motivated to take at least some time during the week to
help out in a field that interests them. It should really increase awareness about the kind of projects that are
available to students.

Beach: We're trying to get people to stop wondering what the YSSC is, and knowing Reach Out more directly. Things
have gotten better since I was here as a freshman, but we can always shoot for more. We want to
make it as easy as possible.

Mount: As students, we have so much to offer. Looking outward to the community is so important.
