16 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

S.G.A Weekend Overemphasizes Getting Drunk?
By Kim Munsterman

Ask Davidson students to describe their first memories of Davidson College, and many will reminisce about their experiences as prospectives at SGA weekend. One sophomore remembers the special dinner for prospectives in the Commons and “the feeling of being told we were all accepted to Davidson;” a junior woman recalls naively asking directions from Pika’s porch to Richardson! Although some students deemed their memories “not appropriate for print,” all those who have attended a past SGA weekend vividly remember their first impressions of Davidson and their initial acquaintances, many of which have become lasting friendships.

Approximately 100 prospective students will again experience a Davidson weekend first-hand on Thursday, March 7, through Saturday, March 9. The weekend, according to Barbara Bixby, admissions counselor, is “to recruit many of the most qualified applicants.” As in past years, prospectives will be given opportunities to meet Davidson students, to attend classes, and to sample the weekend social life. Yet this year, say student coordinators, the focus will be somewhat altered as a result of problems from other SGA weekends.

Senior Kristi Kessler, also an SGA coordinator, adds, “Our goal is to give them a really well-rounded picture of life at Davidson. I realize that Patterson Court is definitely a part of it, but it’s not the only part.” This SGA weekend, which will emphasize a broader view of campus activities, will feature an International Night, a comedy club, a cook-out with three houses participating, and a campus-wide concert. Says Davis, “We want to show the whole Davidson community working together -- freshmen, upperclassmen, fraternities, and independents.” In addition, such an agenda will give students an alternative to the 10 PM - 2 AM drinking that typically occurs. “We are not trying to misguide or misinform them,” Davis explains. “We're trying to show all sides of Davidson.”

Reflecting upon their SGA experiences, some students would agree that the emphasis on drinking was a bit overwhelming. Sophomores Jennifer McClean and Laura Long were both disappointed in what McClean described as a weekend during which "many people seemed to be solely focused on getting trashed." Sophomore Carla Davis, SGA weekend coordinator, explains that often SGA weekends are dominated by drinking and Patterson Court parties. "Last year students spent all their time waiting for beer to come up from the basement, and never got to see the real Davidson,” she states. Many of the incidents on the court may have scared away as many prospectives as they attracted.

Environmental Tips
By Sarah Sadowski

Go into your bathroom. Is there a sticker above the light switch telling you to conserve energy and turn off the lights? Is there a sticker on the mirror telling you to turn off the water to conserve water? Well, there should be! With the help of the R.L.O., members of the Davidson Environmental Action Committee were able to get these stickers put up in bathrooms all over campus in an effort to take action to conserve water and energy and to save our earth. This is just one of many changes you may be seeing around campus these days.

Another change is in the senior apartment toilets. Plastic bottles filled with sand were placed in the toilets in order to displace water, reducing the amount of water used in each flush. Bottles could only be put in the senior apartment toilets because of the nature of the plumbing system in the apartments, which differs from the rest of campus. In addition to the bottles and stickers, DEA is trying out new showerheads which reduce the amount of water used per shower. It is not known whether these showerheads will become a part of Davidson or not, but it’s an option.

If you’re wondering where the kiosks that were promised last year are, join the club. Actually, Bill Collins and others are working with the plans of the kiosks and with potential constructors, trying to get plans finalized and underway. One contributing factor to the delay is the price of the kiosks. Apparently, the bids to construct the kiosks came in too high, so Collins is trying to change the plans in order to lessen the financial burden.

The Recycling Committee has some potentially great news. Efforts to institutionalize recycling are coming along.April will be celebrated here on Earth Week! One of the main reasons for wasting energy is the social burden. We all hope he succeeds soon. 

Work to prove ourselves responsible and help reduce the overburdened committee, which now consists of only 20 members who do all the recycling across campus. An Environmental Conference is being held here on March 3-8. Look out for signs or call Tina Laidlaw (-6638) if you want to help. Earth Week is coming up also, with a week of earth-caring information and a blockbuster weekend of activities on April 20-21. Get informed and bat out.

One final note: Did you know that few rooms are open for all-night study in Chambers because of student misuse of the rooms, especially leaving on the lights? If you would like more rooms open and available, then let’s be responsible when it comes to their use.

Sophomores Jennifer McLean and Laura Long were both disappointed in what McLean described as a weekend during which “many people seemed to be solely focused on getting trashed.” But, McLean continues, “The people were so friendly that it really made me want to come here.” On the other hand, freshman John Franklin recalls having “a great time at the social functions and at the weekend as a whole.” He claims that his experience greatly influenced his decision to attend Davidson, as he had initially been leaning toward another school. Similarly, freshman Bailey Foster says, “My parents made me apply to Davidson, but after SGA weekend I was pretty sure I wanted to come here.”

The future of SGA weekend will be determined by the success of this year’s changes in the weekend’s overall focus. If problems from the past reoccur, the tradition of SGA weekend could be greatly altered. Davis and Kessler seem optimistic about their plans and have talked with each freshman hall to ensure cooperation. States Bixby, "Admissions will always have a need for some kind of recruitment weekend, but there’s no guarantee that the format of the weekend won’t change in the future.”

By Joy Hord

The new Union Board has been appointed and officially swings into action on Feb. 26th. Be watching for exciting new ideas and activities in the upcoming weeks.

This week in the Union:
- Don’t miss Margaret Atwood, author of the bestseller, The Handmaid's Tale, in Love Auditorium at 7:30 Monday night, Feb. 18th. Admission is free.
- Coffeehouse will be held Tuesday morning in the 900 room. Don’t miss out on the assortment of Krispy Kreme doughnuts for only 10¢ each. Coffee, tea, and juice are only 10¢ too.
- Twenty-one-year-old night continues to be held every Tuesday night in the 900 room starting at 10:30 pm. Come join in the conversation and the intense games of spades. Do remember, though, that the bar closes at 12:15 and that the bartenders have to clean up after you. Please be courteous and wrap up your evening by 12:30! Don’t forget to bring your I.D.s.
- Movies in the Union this week: Pop Films presents Glory on Wednesday at 10:00 pm and on Friday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Cinema Classics presents Imitation of Life on Thursday at 7:30 pm and at 9:30 pm on Saturday.
- On Thursday, Feb. 21st, Tom Earnhardt will come to Eleventh Hour in the Morrison Room to voice his concerns on environmental issues. Mr. Earnhardt graduated from Davidson in 1968 and is currently the national director of the water conservation group Trout Unlimited.
- On Saturday, Song Writers' Night returns to the 900 room. Come hear your fellow students flaunt their musical talents between 8:00 and 11:00. Don’t forget your I.D.
- Another alum, Samuel Hines, will be speaking in the Morrison Room at 4:00 pm on Monday, Feb. 25th. His topic will be The Soviet Union and Its Alternative Futures.
- Be watching for sign-ups for the community-wide spelling bee in the Union. The spelling bee will be held during Eleventh Hour on February 28th. Preliminary rounds may be held Wednesday night if there is overwhelming response. Students, faculty, staff, and members of the community are welcome to sign up. First prize is $50 and second prize is $25. Don’t forget to sign up in the Union and to start brushing up on your spelling now.

March is Women’s Month so be watching for special programming all next month in the Union. Congratulations again to the new Board. We hope to see everyone in the Union this week. There's something for everyone.