THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

Rude Notes & Random Scribblings

Farewell Scribble

Yes, indeedy, it has come to pass. That which so many feared might take place, but never thought actually could, did. Yours truly has become the Editor-in-Chief of “The South’s Foremost College Weekly”. It seems as if the least tame beast is taking control of the zoo. Expect several stories about on-campus Elvis sightings, and D.A. Thompson faculty members who are actually from other planets. (Let’s not rule out an investigative special report on the “love children” of Captain Kangaroo and Charo.)

The unwritten code of editorial ethics forbids me from continuing this column, and so it is in this installment that I must proffer my goodbyes as the rabble-rousing D.A., and reintroduce myself as the less scandalous David Arthur. Before I go, however, I'd like to suggest a few simple ways to make your experience at Davidson both more exciting and more memorable. (Trust me, they’re all relatively legal, and if you’re careful, nobody’ll be able to touch you with a felony charge).

1) In the warmer months, many students tend to attend classes without wearing any shoes. These bohemians show the rest of us how trapped we are in our pathetically limiting footwear, and, more often than not, make us all question whether or not we are simply mindless automatons who have been enslaved by the well-shod establishment. These people are a collective menace. My advice, when in Chambers, forcefully rest your preferably boot-covered foot upon any naked toes you happen to see. Slide your desk over the unwary callouses of that oh-so-very “free” little hippie-wanna-be sitting behind you.

2) The juves in Pepto Court are often spoiled by the unwanted intrusion of seemingly hostile, gun-toting, stereo turner-downers. However stern they may look, and however serious they may sound when they threaten to have your speakers towed, they don’t really mean it. All these guys really want is a little attention and love. Treat them well. Play friendly pranks on them. You could use your redneck friend’s pick-em-up truck to tow away the Cushman which is illegally parked outside the house. (They live for that one.) While being lectured about the necessity of towing cars at 3 a.m., you could suddenly yell “Krispy Kreme Doughnuts!” and then snicker as he looks over his shoulder for a yummy treat. (Oh, how you’ll both giggle!) Remember what you learned in first grade about the police being your friends? Well, good friends tease each other all the time.

3) If you’re ever feeling a little bored, one sure-fire way to get the evening going is to enter the insidiously spelled Korner Pub and shout, “I’m a gay, Jewish, liberal from New York who thinks the South sucks, and that George Bush should seek peace in the Middle East!” You’re sure to make tons of new friends who’d be more than happy to take you to the woods and show you the new noose little Billy Bob made at camp.

4) All too often, misguided students complain about how the lectures they must endure in order to get credit for Humanities are both terribly dull and utterly useless. If you ever find yourself in the middle of what you consider a frustratingly unexciting Humes lecture, go to the stage, take off your clothes, and massage your tingly bits while singing “Moonlight In Vermont”, or “Thank you Falettin’ Me Be Mice Elf” at the top of your lungs. Not only will this little trick liven up the lecture, but it is also guaranteed to perk up a sagging love life.

5) If you’re really intrepid, you could admit publicly that you just don’t care about Davidson’s athletics.

At this time of impending ascension, when I must forsake both a column and a state of being, I can’t help but think of young prince Hal of Shakespeare’s Henry IV: “By how much better than my word I am, By so much shall I falsify men’s hopes.” In the history of humankind, there has been created only one truly just rule for conduct in society, and together we must enforce it: No Shirt, No Shoes, No Service.

And like bright metal on a sullen ground, My reformation, glittering o’er my fault, Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes Than that which hath no foil to set it off. I’ll so offend, to make offense a skill, Redeeming time when men think least I will. (1.ii.208-17)

Read The Davidsonian

Amnesty International's War

By Kirk Williams '91

I was sitting in Love the other night for the talk by Margaret Atwood when someone in the front row asked, “Will you, as a Canadian and a supporter of Amnesty, comment on the war?”. The question disturbed me because, throughout the buildup to conflict and the days since the first cruise missiles hit Baghdad, both supporters and critics of the use of force by the Coalition have used the name and work of Amnesty International to justify their respective positions. I think it is necessary, therefore, to outline what Amnesty International has actually done and said about the events in the Gulf.

On December 18, 1990, Amnesty International released a report detailing brutal human rights abuses committed in Kuwait by the occupation forces of Iraq. The report details how “Iraqi forces have tortured and killed many hundreds of victims, taken several thousand prisoners and left more than 300 premature babies to die after looting incubators from at— least three of Kuwait City’s main hospitals.” Techniques of torture used include cutting off people’s tongues and ears, electric shock, shooting limbs, and rape. The report also pointed out that “such abuses have been the norm for people in Iraq for more than a decade.” In early January, President Bush sent a letter to over 450 college newspapers in which he relied heavily on the Amnesty International report to justify allied use of force. He wrote that each day that the allies delay action against Hussein is “Another day of atrocities for Amnesty International to document.” This letter coincided with debate in Congress over the war. Amnesty issued a statement to Congress to express how the organization is “deeply distressed by the selective use of its recent report on human rights violations in Iraq/Occupied Kuwait during the present debates in Congress.” Jack Healey, Executive Director of AIUSA, told the Committee on Foreign Affairs that Amnesty “welcomes the recent efforts of President Bush and the U.S. Congress to focus attention on the egregious human rights abuses being committed in Kuwait. We hope, however, that the U.S. Government will express equal concern about human rights abuses in other countries, regardless of the ideology of the governments in those countries or the geopolitical interests of the United States.” Healey has also stated that if the U.S. government policies had previously expressed concern over human rights conditions in Iraq that, “Our country might not be digging in for war today.” An example of U.S. Government policy shortcomings is that a few weeks prior to the Iraqi invasion, despite evidence of Iraqi torture of children and the killing of thousands of ethnic Kurds in gas attacks, the Bush administration “refused to conclude that Iraq had engaged in a consistent pattern of gross human rights violations.” Amnesty has also detailed human rights abuses in many coalition states. Coalition partners Egypt, Syria, and Saudi Arabia routinely use torture and detain political prisoners indefinitely without trial. Similarly, Israel, in recent years, has detained, without trial, thousands of Palestinians for “peacefully exercising their rights to free expression and association.” Israel has also been condemned for excessive use of force for killing hundreds of Palestinians in the past three years. Amnesty International does not take a stance on the territorial dispute over Kuwait and is pleased by the President’s declared indignation over the human rights abuses. Amnesty, however, is disappointed by the selective nature of this indignation and believes that “Exploiting human rights to justify violent confrontation is itself indecent.” The work to eradicate human rights abuses would be greatly helped if the nations of the world developed consistent human rights policies. While the war continues, Amnesty continues to document and battle against human rights abuses everywhere. In a few weeks, for instance, Amnesty International starts its 1991 Women’s Campaign to call attention to abuses of women. The Davidson College chapter of Amnesty meets each Thursday night to write about human rights abuses all over the world. Anyone who is interested in writing letters on behalf of victims or in learning more about attempts to improve human rights conditions are encouraged to stop by. Kirk Williams is a senior political science major from Princeton, New Jersey.

Montgomery Continued from Page 6

artist folks could work together. The Gallery in Chambers and the Union are natural exhibition spaces. Since it would be one big week, there would be much greater publicity and perhaps more people would get a chance to attend. Students could sell their work, making a little money off of the week. Professor Shaw Smith mentioned that his senior Art History majors might be interested in presenting papers. Imagine student-run workshops in which papers are read and then discussed. It would provide a chance to do something with a term paper that you spend an entire two months on. It would give an academic, colloquium side to the week. Dramatic presentations could be done too. Little one-scene humorous readings, political skits, improvisational stuff. A major point of an Arts Festival would be bringing the arts into a community setting. We could advertise to the public, for one thing. As it stands now we usually go and see individual events on a date or for parents weekend, spotlighting a specific department. A concentrated week of art events would bring different artists together and provide for exchanges of ideas and dialogue. I’m surprised we don’t already have something like it with all of the talented people doing diverse things around here.

So get to it art people. It only takes interest and then coordination. I’m sure that there is a Mapplethorpe lurking around campus waiting to be discovered and have his work-study job taken away. I want to hear your bad poetry, watch your dramatic interpretation of a tree frog. I want to look at bad paintings, hear love ballads on piano, wear a black turtleneck, make clay things. I want to shave my head and wear rubber. Look at black and white photographs of naked women. Drink warm bourbon. Melt in a bubble of baby blue brain waves. Body paint. Be your back door.

Opinions

You have them. We want them. Write for "The South's Foremost College Weekly” and get your name in print. Call David "Peanutman” Scott (A Fine Southern Gentleman) at x6615 at his apartment and speak to him live.