20 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW
With Celebrated Mystery Writer and Davidson Alumna, Patricia Cornwell
By Catherine Milligan

Davidsonian: Where does a story start for you? With a brainstorm about the perfect killer? With ideas for suspects or
alibis? With details of a murder scene?

Cornwell: It begins with a concept; I always start with a crime. I don’t necessarily have an idea for a
perfect killer, or even know which characters I would like to use in a new book, though I know I’m
going to use Scarpetta and Marino and Benton Wesley. They seem to be a very good trinity—they have a very
good balance. I feel best when those three people are on the scene. But I start with a concept. It
must be a crime that has some emotional impact on me. I start with something that is based in reality,
because real crimes like this have happened. I say, “I want Scarpetta to work on this and I want to
see where it goes.”

Davidsonian: Like Agatha Christie novels, most murder mysteries seem to have a pattern of conventions (e.g., a mysterious hero/heroine-detective, a
number of red herrings, an eerie setting, a touch of romance, and a final resolution). Are you conscious of such
standards when you write? Do you work within a pre-established framework of “musts” and “must nots”?

Cornwell: This is perhaps what makes my type of writing very different from what most people are doing. No, I
don’t really work in these conventions, per se, because I believe I’m writing books that reflect reality, and reality does
not conform to these sorts of conventions. The thing that I am most conscious of when I’m writing my books
is, simply, “Is this the way it would be? Is this believable? Is this what these characters would say and
do?” The fact is, if you have a situation where you have a serial killer on the loose, the likelihood
of it being the person who works down the hall from the protagonist, or “her butler,” or something like that,
is just so remote. I don’t believe that I’m writing formula books. They strike me as somewhat contrived. Though they
are good entertainment for a lot of people who enjoy them, that’s not what I’m all about. I’m really trying
to show you the world I see. The world I see does not adhere to convention. It’s not fair, and
it’s often random, and a lot of times the person perpetrating these evil acts is someone you’ve never met before.

Davidsonian: What do you think makes your writing unique and eye-catching?

Cornwell: In addition to the elements I just mentioned, I think the verisimilitude or the accuracy that you will find
in my technical descriptions, medical descriptions, and the various profiles of the crimes. I am intimately acquainted with crime. There
isn’t much I haven’t seen, whether it’s autopsies in the morgue or crime scenes. That definitely makes my work unique.
People read it and they have a sense of immediacy—a sense of being there and walking along with these characters
through the rather sordid and frightening shadow of the city. They see the darker side. I have seen that darker
side, and I let you see that too.

Davidsonian: Among the authors, family members, co-workers, and individuals who have been part of your life, which people have had
the greatest impact on your development as a person and as a writer?

Cornwell: I would begin by saying it would be my professors in school. I think we tend to gravitate towards
those things we get strokes for, and from the earliest time I can remember, perhaps in the second or third
grade, my teachers were very encouraging about my writing. I can remember writing a creative story—I think it was in
the fourth grade—and the teacher was so impressed with it she read it in front of the whole class. I
was extremely thrilled by that, to say the least. I felt like I did something that was better than what
most people could do. This became more of a reality—a serious consideration in terms of my life’s goals when I
was a freshman in college. An English professor took a great deal of interest in my writing, and I did
a tutorial with him. I wrote short stories for him for a summer. On and on it went, culminating in
my experience at Davidson, where I again received a great deal of encouragement. The first novel I wrote I wrote
for my honors thesis. Not a very good one, I might add, but I did get an awful lot of
encouragement. I can’t say that my family members have been a big influence on my writing. As far as other
authors, not really, but I like to read very fine writing, whether it’s F. Scott Fitzgerald, or Mark Helprin, or
Pat Conroy, or even some modern crime novels that do a pretty good job. I would definitely say that that
has a collective sort of impact on what I do. The people who give me intellectual inspiration have had an
influence. The Medical Examiners I have worked with that have taught me so well; the detectives I have worked with
who have shown me themselves in their unguarded moments. All of these people have had an influence because they have
introduced me to this world and helped me through it.

Davidsonian: Sue Grafton has suggested that, from one book to the next, especially at the pace of writing one mystery
a year, pressure builds and it is most difficult for a writer not to repeat herself. Do you agree? What
have your greatest challenges been since your first successful book?

Cornwell: Yes, absolutely, it is very difficult not to repeat yourself. It’sdifficult to do something new and fresh, and here
I am only working on my fourth book, so I can imagine that this is going to be a constant
challenge. The pressure increases, especially in my case because the series has taken off so rapidly and so dramatically. So
much has happened in such an incredibly short amount of time and the expectations have risen mightily. That could put
a lot of pressure on me. I try to avoid it and ignore it. For example, it seems like I
can’t write the books fast enough, and I’m already receiving pressure about when number four is going to be done,
even though it won’t be out for a year and a half. I’ve simply refused to pay much attention to
that pressure. It will be done when it’s done. I think you shoot yourself in the foot by rushing through
something. I can’t say that I’ll always get a book done each year. That would be nice, but it’s quite
possible that it won’t be one a year, and there will come a time when it definitely won’t be one
a year. You have certain financial considerations in the beginning when you’re really getting your business going and you need
those sales every year to keep yourself afloat. Hopefully that will become less of a consideration as the audience really
builds, and the series becomes increasingly popular.

Davidsonian: Describe, if you can, how it feels to write a rough draft. Is it exciting? tedious? invigorating? stressful?

Cornwell: That’s a great question. I'll tell you what it is, it is exhausting! The first draft is a tremendous
labor of love and survival. I do not really like writing a first draft. My favorite part is revising when
it’s all there and I can really play with it and fine-tune it. It is tremendously tiring to create something
out of nothing. In fact, I can only go at it 2-5 hours a day, and then I’ve had it,
as a rule. Sometimes I will have to go take a nap for 10 or 15 minutes—it drains me so
much. You’re creating something out of nothing. I’ve talked to other writers who know exactly what I’m saying—it is the
most exhausting thing you can do. I think I’d rather go out and play tennis all day long, because I’d
probably be less tired than I am when I sit in that study. It does have its moments of excitement,
though. There’s a real afterglow to having made a certain turn in the chapter or the plot, and you know
it’s good and it’s really alive, or you’ve described something in a way that makes you feel really fine. There’s
no question that when my work is going well, my mood is good. No matter what else is going on
in my life, if my writing is not going well, then I’m not feeling very good at all.

Davidsonian: Besides sexism, you constantly touch on other controversial issues of discrimination (i.e. homophobia, racism, ethnocentrism, class consciousness). By doing
so, do you intend to alert the reader’s conscience? In general, how likely are readers to learn from mystery fiction
and take it seriously enough to apply it to their own lives? Is this an important consideration for you?

Cornwell: I do touch on controversial issues of discrimination, and I do hope readers will learn something from it and
apply it to their own lives. I’m not trying to preach, because what I did learn when I studied literature
at Davidson is that you are not to be didactic as a writer, and I choose not to be didactic.
Scarpetta would have strong feelings about this, and Marino serves as a foil because he is so bigoted on so
many fronts. I would not want to have a main character who was judgmental. The biggest thing that Scarpetta would
discriminate against is cruelty. She’s not going to discriminate against race, gender, or sexual proclivities. She has seen too much
to be small-minded, and she has experienced too much not to understand how people feel about certain things. She’s a
very open-minded individual. Again, and I think I point this out in Body of Evidence, it’s more about the way
people treat each other and not so much the choices they make. She has a very strong sense of what’s
right and what’s wrong. She would not think that child molestation or homicide is right, no matter what one’s proclivities
are. Those are acts of subjugation and cruelty. There’s nothing there that’s shared between adults or founded upon rational judgment.
She has felt discriminated against at times in her life, as I pointed out with her years in medical school;
she’s been mistreated because people haven’t felt like dealing with a woman chief. She would be very sensitive to this,
as we all should be. All of us, at some time in our lives, have felt discriminated against. For me,
it wasn’t always just because of my gender. I can remember being in high school and having the “in” crowd
not like me for some reason, and it became very tense when I would go in the lunchroom and wonder
where I was going to sit. I can remember going up to an empty seat where some of the cheerleaders
were, and they would always tell me that that seat was saved. When I moved from Miami my first few
years in school, I often sat with the Mountain People who were on the free lunch program, because the other
girls did not want to include me. So I know what that feels like. I will never forget as long
as I live the sick feelings in my stomach, and I think it definitely shows in my work. I don’t
care what the basis of the discrimination is, it’s inhumane, it’s depersonalizing, and it’s wrong.
