THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 1991

Campus Living

Senior John Patton Attends Moscow Summit
By Russ Tisinger

John Patton, a senior political science major, got more than he bargained for when he received an internship at the Soviet Desk of the State Department this summer in Washington, D.C. Not only did he manage to take on some important responsibilities with the day-to-day operation of the desk; he was eventually chosen from the staff to help with the U.S.-Soviet summit in Moscow that took place at the end of July.

Patton served as an intern for the multilateral section of the Soviet Desk, which deals with U.S.-Soviet arms control issues and the remaining Cold War-fueled regional conflicts such as those in Afghanistan, Cuba, and Cambodia. The internship entrusted some important jobs to Patton. One project he worked on was preparing Ambassador Robert Strauss for the Senate confirmation hearings. He helped write a list of answers to 65 questions that Strauss was likely to be asked at the hearings. He also prepared booklets that contained pertinent information about U.S.-Soviet relations for congressional members.

Tisinger Gains Journalism Experience
By May Martin

Some professors will give a student an extension on a paper when the student has been sick, or when he or she has other assignments due on the same day. Very few, however, have ever had to give a student an extension because he or she had to fly on Air Force One with President Bush.

This summer, Dr. Ortmayer, who led the Davidson in Washington program, gave senior Russ Tisinger an extension on his mid-term essay so Tisinger could fly out to Mount Rushmore to cover the dedication of the monument by President Bush. Tisinger had a summer internship with the Wall Street Journal, and was sent to cover the event. Along with about 50 other reporters from major newspapers, he was flown from Andrews Air Force Base to South Dakota. After arriving there, the reporters set up their computers and equipment. Tisinger had his own portable computer supplied by the Journal, which he hooked up to his phone, before covering the dedication ceremony at the monument, which he described as “nice, but uneventful.” Because no major event took place at the ceremony, it was not necessary for him to file anything on the computer—that is, he did not have to see "Tisinger” on page 16.

Davidson in Washington
By Russ Tisinger

Fifteen Davidson students worked and studied in Washington, D.C. this summer under the Davidson-in-Washington program. The program, conducted by the Department of Political Science, gave students the opportunity to serve as interns in Washington, D.C., and to participate in a seminar taught by Dr. Louis Ortmayer. The topic for the 1991 seminar was American national security policy. Students met twice a week to study the ins and outs of making national security policy in Washington, the gradual evolution of defense policy in the United States, U.S.-Soviet conventional and nuclear arms control (specifically the CFE and START treaties), and the increasingly important role of the economy on national security policy.icy in the post-Cold War era. Being in Washington enabled the students to take advantage of speakers from the Washington area. Karl Pfefferkorn, from the Office of Negotiations of the State Department, spoke to students about negotiating the Conventional Forces in Europe treaty with the Soviets. In addition to going to class, each student served as an intern in the Washington area. Davidson students had internships at the U.S. Department of Justice and several other organizations. See the "Tisinger" and "Patton" articles above for descriptions of two of the more interesting Davidson internships.

Delegations were sent to the Soviet Union. According to Patton, working on the booklets allowed him to gain a better feel for how the Desk and the State Department actually function. During the July ministerial meeting between Secretary of State James Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister Alexandr Bessmertnyk over the START agreement, Patton was able to sit in on negotiations between treaty officials. Patton, who speaks Russian, found the give and take of discussion fascinating. At one point in the negotiations, some Soviets (falsely) thought the Americans were questioning Soviet technological ability, which led to some tense moments. Interestingly, the less formal discussion during the breaks seemed to contribute as much or more to the negotiations than the formal sessions.

At the end of the summer, Patton was chosen to help with the Moscow summit. As part of an advance team, he arrived a week before the president to help prepare for the meetings between President Bush and General Secretary Gorbachev. During the summit, Patton worked 18-hour days as a dispatcher, coordinating rides for officials that needed to be taken around Moscow for whatever reason. Because all of the drivers were Soviets, he was able to use his Russian to direct drivers to their destinations. Patton also aided President Bush’s Ambassador of Protocol, Joseph Reed, with various tasks during the Moscow leg of the trip. The ambassador, who takes care of important details such as aspects of scheduling and formal presentations involving the President, delegated various responsibilities to Patton. For example, just before the President departed for Kiev to deliver a speech, Patton delivered the President’s copy of the speech to Air Force One.

Congratulations to Verdie Barringer, DC Union Custodian, for having been invited to participate in the World of Poetry annual conference in New York City in September. Her poem "The Flute" was honored in Parade magazine and has made Barringer eligible for a Golden Poet trophy.

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS: As you have probably noticed, pages 7 and 14 are missing.

TRAINING CORPS

MY DEGREE GOT ME THE INTERVIEW. ARMY ROTC GOT ME THE JOB.

Things got pretty competitive for this job. I'm sure my college degree and good grades kept me in the running. But in the end, it was the leadership and management experience I got through Army ROTC that won them over. You can begin to develop impressive leadership skills with an Army ROTC elective.

MIL 101 - THE U.S. Army Today