THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

3

8:30am -- 4:58pm 9/26
At an unestablished point between the above times, some unknown person appears to have intentionally destroyed the right side passenger window of a student's 1984 gray Mazda D-2000. A walnut, probably from a nearby tree in the Copeland House parking lot, was found inside the vehicle. The victim states that the walnut was apparently used to break the passenger window. The damage is estimated at approximately $8,000. The victim has no suspects in mind.

Campus Crime Log

6:00pm 9/18 -- 10:00am 9/19
Sometime between the above times, unknown person(s) carried or rode away on a bicycle from the rack in front of Sentelle dormitory. The victim states that she could not recall whether or not she had secured the bicycle with her chain lock. The victim’s bicycle is described as a Raleigh-brand women’s 10-speed bike, burgundy in color with gold lettering. The serial number is 2L.MG148M and the Davidson registration number is 1022. The bike is valued at $100.

10:30pm 9/21 -- 2:30am 9/22
Sometime between the above times, a Davidson student had his wallet stolen from his Belk dormitory room. The victim stated that he had left his wallet in his room and went with his friend to get pizza. When he returned, he noticed that his wallet and his friend’s pocket knife were missing. The wallet is valued at $10 and contained $80 in cash, a driver’s license, and a Davidson College ID.

Campaign Continued from page 1
The college has asked its friends “to stretch its support” for the college. Contributions have ranged from a few dollars to almost 7 million dollars. He explained that the campaign has already had “more benefits than just the money,” because the effort has “involved more people in the college and its mission.” Bethea also said that the student advisory committee has been formed to gather student input and Bethea said that their contributions have been valuable.

Beverly F. Dolan, who is the national chairman for the campaign, and Dr. John Kuykendall, the college president, expressed their concern about the college’s financial base in a letter distributed to potential donors. They said, “Davidson is so rich in intangible ways that it has acquired the image of being rich in financial resources as well. This image is inaccurate.”

According to Bethea, Davidson’s financial status can be traced all the way back to the Civil War. After the war, Davidson had virtually no money and was lucky to survive at all. The other main reason why Davidson’s endowment is below other liberal arts leaders is the number of living alumni. Schools such as Amherst and Williams have alumni pools that are three or four times as large. Dr. Kuykendall said Davidson “probably won’t ever catch up with places like [them].”

SGA
A few issues from the September 24th SGA meeting...
Prem Manjooran reported on the Council on Minority Affairs meeting. A major topic of discussion was the social mobility of two particular groups: the handicapped and homosexual students. These are two distinctive issues. The College has tried to accommodate handicapped students’ needs but no effort has been made to support or acknowledge the homosexual students.population. The Council on Minority Affairs has meetings on Mondays at 8:00 in the Union Conference Room, and all students are welcome. For more information, contact Prem Manjooran (6640).

There will be a forum on Tuesday, October 8th in the Chambers Gallery on possible Honor Council Reforms. Topics of discussion will include the possible addition of a student jury to honor offense trials and the issue of confidentiality.

Brooks Geer gave a report for the Campus Services and Facilities Committee. The committee will explore, among other things, the possibility of having a common grill site out at the senior apartments. Geer added that the Student Health Center, which is now located across from the Union, should be moved to the vacant building next to the Smith House by next semester. If you are interested in serving on the Campus Services and Facilities Committee, call Geer at (6807).

The freshmen senators are really getting into the swing of things. They are looking into the possibility of having a jukebox in the Union Cafe, and have also suggested having a “smoke-out,” or a smoke-free weekend.

Write for News: Call Tom Koonce -6582 or Tom Price -6370

“very helpful” in providing the campaign with the “perspective of students.” The committee was Compared to other highly selective liberal arts schools, Davidson’s endowment is indeed Due to the upcoming fall break, Davidsonian will not be published on October 4, 1991. Number 8 will be in circulation on October 14.

RESTAURANT and CANTINA
* Carry Out Available
* Beer & Wine
* Brown Bagging

LESS THAN 7 MILES FROM CAMPUS:
Take I-77 to Exit 33
Go Right - 2 Miles
Take Right on W. Wilson Avenue
Restaurant On Left

KARAOKE EVERY TUESDAY 9PM-12AM
$1.00 DRAFT EVERY THURSDAY 8-UNTIL

930 West Wilson Ave.
Mooresville, N.C. 28115
(704) 663-MEXI (6394)

Need A Good Haircut?
Come See Sylvia Beach At
Scissors Salon (Beside Carolina Cones)
* Customized Haircuts
* Permanent Waves
* Sun Glitz Highlights
* Free Consultations Available
CALL FOR APPOINTMENT 892-7476

TIMESAVING COUPONS THAT WILL ALSO SAVE YOU CASH.

DOMINO’S PIZZA
IT’S TIME FOR DOMINO’S PIZZA

Hours: Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green
11am-12am Mon.-Thurs.
11am-1am Fri. & Sat.
12pm-12am Sun.

Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving.
©1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

MEAL DEAL $9.99 + Tax
Order a 16" Two-Topping Pizza and Four 12 oz. cans of regular or diet Coca-Cola Classic for only $9.99 + Tax
Expires 10/20/91

One 12" Two-Topping Pizza and your choice of two regular or diet Coca-Colas for only $6.00 - No Coupon Necessary.

Limited Offer
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.

LATE NITE SPECIAL
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.

DOMINO'S PIZZA