THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991

Depth, Relevance

A Midwinter's Night

What do you know but it’s deadline time again -- oh muse send me verbiage . . . Thanks. Something’s in the air. Balmy afternoons and shorts-clad future leaders mark our days while mystery snowflakes and puking pledges festoon the night. Yes, it’s Midwinters time at Davidson, again. Students lusting after novelty can drop by the Union before heading to Patterson Court for brew. I hope terminology so far is not confusing anyone. As my good friend Jaime Slagle has stated, “The closest thing Davidson will ever get to winter is Nuclear.” ‘Midwinters,’ you understand, is just a generic term for “revelrous weekend in early February.” All I can say is, don’t let the oxymorons get you down; and keep on keepin’ on; and buck up soldier, ‘cause the beer really isn’t colder on the other side of the fence, so deal with it.

I’m looking at the Union schedule for the weekend’s events in front of me here. It’s a little flier in the shape of a snowflake; you’ve probably seen them around. Two things I like about this flier: first, it is NOT generated by an Apple computer. The flake has a very humane asymmetry to it that is quite pleasing to the eye. Secondly, the goings-on look quite fun. Friday kicks (or kicked by the time the paper comes out) things off with a Shagging Fest. I think this is an especially good idea. Opportunities to run down fly balls with a date come rarely, if at all, and should be treasured.

Saturday afternoon features that raucous comic troupe “Skatfish,” formerly known as “Fish-Scat” (with a ‘c’) and famous for their hilarious brand of aquamarine bathroom humor. [Please contact Doug Gibson for the etymological origins of that last joke.] In token tribute to our world at war, Saturday night continues with a double feature presentation of “Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory” and “Strange Brew.” Hey Hoser, I hear all Saddam Hussein’s chocolate factories got blown up, eh. No way Hoser, want a beer, eh?

While certainly well-intentioned, I am not sure that Saturday night’s festivities fully service the often voiced need to safeguard troop morale through abject homogeneity. A truly complete and Consciousness Raising midwinters week should include what I’ll call, for the hell of it, a “Super Vigil.” Let me explain. We all recognize our essential itty-bittyness in the face of a way-big world. Solitary individuals can do precious little to reshape earthly things; in fact, we’re not even sure if as a group we can make much of a splash. But we all want to do our part. It seems to me that the most you can do is find out what you’re best at and just do it well and with all your heart. So what I have in mind is this Super Vigil thing. All the members of the Davidson community could come together in single-minded tribute to our Chief and do what they’re best at -- a festival of competency if you will, with unity as our goal. Please envision: Liberals marching, conservatives condescending and the whole student body procrastinating as one. Faculty representatives could be set loose in ravenous consideration of both sides of every issue while battle-weary citizens warmed their backsides in front of Dan Rather, and close-minded males noted the front-sides of all those Queenie models gracing us with their presence. We could make up a game in which both sides lose and let the sports teams play each other. Go Cats! Arty types could grow their hair while custodians chomped on stogies, and everyone wondered.

As my good friend Jamie Slagle has stated, "The closest thing Davidson will ever get to winter is Nuclear."

Factory” and “Strange Brew.” Hey Hoser, I hear all Saddam Hussein’s chocolate factories got blown up, eh. No way Hoser, want a beer, eh?

While certainly well-intentioned, I am not sure that Saturday night’s festivities fully service the often voiced need to safeguard troop morale through abject homogeneity. A truly complete and Consciousness Raising midwinters week should include what I’ll call, for the hell of it, a “Super Vigil.” Let me explain. We all recognize our essential itty-bittyness in the face of a way-big world. Solitary individuals can do precious little to reshape earthly things; in fact, we’re not even sure if as a group we can make much of a splash. But we all want to do our part. It seems to me that the most you can do is find out what you’re best at and just do it well and with all your heart. So what I have in mind is this Super Vigil thing. All the members of the Davidson community could come together in single-minded tribute to our Chief and do what they’re best at -- a festival of competency if you will, with unity as our goal. Please envision: Liberals marching, conservatives condescending and the whole student body procrastinating as one. Faculty representatives could be set loose in ravenous consideration of both sides of every issue while battle-weary citizens warmed their backsides in front of Dan Rather, and close-minded males noted the front-sides of all those Queenie models gracing us with their presence. We could make up a game in which both sides lose and let the sports teams play each other. Go Cats! Arty types could grow their hair while custodians chomped on stogies, and everyone wondered.

As my good friend Jamie Slagle has stated, "The closest thing Davidson will ever get to winter is Nuclear."

Altruism Continued from Page 7

better job. Perhaps Paul Newman said it best in “Cat On a Hot Tin Roof” - - “Smells like mendacity and hypocrisy to me, Big Daddy.” Mendacity: given to or characterized by deception or falsehood which often is not intended to genuinely mislead or delude. Well, it smells like mendacity to me too, and maybe this is my feeble attempt to wash myself of some of it. I just cannot seem to shake the feeling that most of our humanitarian efforts are designed to make us feel good and rid our consciousnesses so we can feel clean when we become president of a bank or senior partner of a law firm and buy a Mercedes and a Rolex. Before the whole campus comes down on me, there are two notable exceptions: those who don’t pretend to want to save the world and those who, in one form or another, do affect positive change in the future. The students and faculty that do not belong to either of the aforementioned groups should be ashamed that they pay lip service to the Davidson ethic. I am. To those who greet this letter with indignation I hope I am wrong, I am only calling it the way I see it. On the other hand, I’ll just refer you to an epithet D.A. Thompson used on the author once upon a time, when the Cushmans would show; pledges humiliating themselves for a cause, PA system feeding back, and beer for all and all for beer as the Union Board candidates captured the nexus of the Davidson soul-force in one gigantic poster. The more things change, the more, etc. I ran this idea by fellow students and received mixed reviews. David McPherson stated, “Hell, I don’t know what to think,” and we all appreciate his input. A dreamy-eyed Randolph Lewis waxed abstract. Quoth he, “I honestly believe that pop music can help solve our problems in the Middle East.” Huh? “Well, it’s sort of a groove thing... Gotcha. Such musical naivete, however, can only remind us of the Great One, Kenny Rogers, and his lines from the 1970’s introspective, “If She Believes In Me:” If she was my girl/ I thought I could change the world! with my little songs! But I waswrong. Oh! Kenny, we hear ya’. I’ve always found it fascinating to observe the maturation of Rogers’ intellect as he aged, got rich, and decided that if he couldn’t change the world he could at least buy a significant portion of it. Hope y'all enjoyed the weekend.

Davidson Continued From Page 4

misfortunes. It is easy and even comforting to find excuses to blame someone else for our own problems. It is not right, however, and in the end, it only makes women look bitchy and irrational. I am a woman. I want to be treated with respect, and I want equal opportunities. But I don’t want to be associated with the bitter feminism that Sara and other “campus feminists” espouse. It is unwarranted, unfair, and unnecessary. I think it’s time for a new cause.

Sincerely,
Liz Davidson ‘93

U.N. Flag Continued from Page 5

be ultimate allegiance. As for the American flag, we should not shelve it either, simply because it is a symbol sometimes hated. It too should be thoughtfully displayed. To burn the American flag is thoughtless. To mindlessly salute it is equally thoughtless. But when we display the American flag alongside the flag of the United Nations, we demonstrate a most thoughtful display of our commitment to the ideals for which it stands. Such a statement seems appropriate now. President Bush has continually articulated to this nation and the world, that this struggle against Saddam Hussein, and the tyranny he represents, is a collective one. Not only are American lives being risked. Kuwaiti, Saudi, Yemeni, Qatari, Egyptian, Syrian, Israeli, Italian, British, French, and the peoples of many other nations are at risk from warfare or terrorism. Iraqi lives, like the Iraqi military officers who refused to invade Kuwait and were executed, and too the innocent civilians of Iraq, who have been and will be accidentally killed in this conflict, are also risked in the name of this struggle. Thus, the pride we feel for our country should not stem from our ability to “kick ass,” but rather in our moral and political leadership in righting a wrong. Our pride flows from the realization that the principles which we declare, we live. When we do not live by these principles then flows our shame. Who does not indeed feel some shame when the United States breaks international law. Can we feel just in the mining of Nicaraguan harbors for example? Still, who does not at least feel some pride in American leadership in making the United Nations work as it was envisioned. We can take pride in the fact that our country is presently enforcing international law. We should, all of us, hope that such acts will become the norm rather than the exception as our world becomes increasingly interdependent. All should realize that our national pride rightly surges from these higher principles and aspirations. For these reasons, I for one intend to always fly my American flag along with my U.N. flag. The American flag flies most honestly and purposefully then. And I hope that it will from this day forward always fly there proudly. We should demand of ourselves and our country that it does. Finally, to my fellow Southerners like Derrick and all those who might unnecessarily take offense, I also promise that should I ever feel the need, perhaps while eating those collard greens I so dearly love, to fly a Confederate flag, I will do so beneath these others which represent most clearly my commitment to justice and freedom.

Jordan. Continued from Page 6

debated today. The writings are controversial because everything, including national and local government, is fluid. As recent events of the international political scene have reminded us, the communities of the world are not in a state of stagnation. Communities do not simply continue because a paper says that they will. There is perpetual change, both positive and negative, from the level of Davidson College to that of the world of nations. This is because rather than reaching an ideal state we have only established an encouraging set of basic rules by which we will work to accomplish future goals. That applies also to the College community. We must continue to improve upon our own surroundings if we are to see it survive and thrive well into the future. Fortunately, we are a college community based upon mutual respect and a sense of personal honor. Although those words may sound cliché after several years at Davidson, at one time or another each of us has been thankful that we live and study among fellow students of such a high caliber. The United States, as a nation, is similar to Davidson in theory but has lacked one fundamental element. Based upon reasonable laws and the ideal of mutual respect and equality, one difficulty with the nation as a whole is that we lack the feel of a community. Over the years Americans have drifted away from the original concept of binding together in a nation-state for our common welfare. Because we have maintained the concept that our nation-state should be dedicated to our mutual well-being and that the United States of America’s government, in present form, will serve as that nation-state, hope is not lost. We all can be more aware of ourselves, our local community and the world around us. It begins by talking to the person next to you. The title of Ms. Jordan’s speech was, “A Republic, If You Can Keep It.” The challenges intrinsic in that title are mind-boggling. Though Ms. Jordan’s concept of American nationalism is vague in both theory and practice, we are citizens of a nation and we all must work to enhance the partnership of the citizen, the community and the nation if indeed our partnership is to continue. I certainly hope our generation fulfills her wishes. “When a people shall have become incapable of governing themselves, and fit for a master, it is of little consequence from what quarter he comes.” - George Washington, Letter to Lafayette, April 28, 1788

Read The Davidsonian, “The South's Foremost College Weekly"