6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991

Beyond Birkenstock: World Peace?

Think Birkenstock

Kyle and Seth's excellent adventure in Journalism

Q: What’s the difference between the Soviet Communist Party and the American Democratic Party?
A: Up until a week ago, the Communists still had a sliver of a chance of winning their Presidential election!

Boy, it’s going to be a wonderful year, isn’t it? Communist coups, choleric court confirmations and, of course, a couple of crack conservative columnists to cover it all. In case you’re new, or in case you’ve forgotten this column and every other piece of redeeming literature you read last year, this little piece of journalistic enlightenment is the closest thing to real political commentary you're ever likely to read (in all modesty). In fact, cut it out and save it; who knew the Mona Lisa would be worth so much back when all the girls had ambiguous smiles and big... tracts of land.

But just in case you’re wondering, this column and its authors are not biased towards conservatism per se, just its pragmatic good sense. Now, we may occasionally cast a jaundiced eye at some Democratic foible, but that in no way makes this biased journalism. Believe us, if the Republicans were ever to do something similarly silly (they haven’t yet), we would certainly point it out.

But enough about us. How ‘bout those Bears? The Communist Bears, that is. Did we make the call, or what? (At the risk of narcissism, we’ll quote ourselves for the benefit of those who haven’t bothered to memorize past Birks). “The dilemma, surely, is whether Gorbachev can hold his Robespierres in check until the economy provides a financial base in which political reform can take place. At least, that’s what the political pundits seem to think (they were right about Iraq, weren’t they?). It’s also possible that Gorbachev has progressed as far as he is genetically able. He is, was, and always will be a party man. His consolidation of power in the presidency, although portrayed as a positive necessity for democratization, could also be used for tyranny. You think?” We thought. Remember, all of Gorby’s little helpers on the State of Emergency Committee were his own appointees. Had Gorbachev spent half as much time instilling a sense of institutional restraint and reaffirming constitutional law as he did appeasing hardliners and making goo-goo eyes to the west, democracy is, perhaps, nearer to the truth. After all, these men were his friends, his cabinet. Those who lie down with dogs are apt to arise with fleas.

Now here’s where it gets good. “... [T]here is an alternative. Boris Yeltsin has always been the odd man out in American foreign policy. Pretty common compared to the likes of George Bush and Edward Shevardnadze. Yet, his popular appeal (something Gorbachev lacks) is coupled with a vision of an autonomous (i.e. de-Unionized) Soviet Union that would allow the various republics to join economically as trading partners, and think about political re-Union later.” Goodness, wasn’t the signing of a new union treaty supposed to happen today?

Andrew Spainhour: It's Too Bad Freshmen Aren't In Charge Here

For the past several days, my roommate and I have lived the freshman life. As hall counselors, we’ve done all the old familiar things: we’ve been to the Cake Race, we’ve done our time in Love Auditorium, we’ve mixed, and we’ve mixed, and we’ve mixed. Quite frankly, I was beginning to think that maybe I was a freshman all over again, but then I remembered that no, that couldn’t possibly be true. After all, my schedule wasn’t as good as my hallmates, the American Express man wasn’t at all interested in giving me a credit card, and one of the ladies in the bookstore hooted at my excuse that I didn’t know better when I lost my receipt.

But even in spite of all that, I still felt a little like a freshman, until today, that is. This afternoon, the hall congregated in my room. I offhandedly mentioned to my roommate that I didn’t have the vaguest clue as to what I ought to write about in THE DAVIDSONIAN, and the onslaught began. As the words rolled off my lips, every freshman in the room was opining fervently, writhing uncontrollably like snakes in a small pit. I was afraid.

They debated every conceivable issue. Why on earth would anyone want to be politically correct? Why on earth would anyone want to be politically incorrect? Why is Davidson so homogeneous? Why is Davidson so heterogeneous? What about...acquaintance rape, racism, sexism, and homophobia? An hour and a half later, after the panel had disbanded, my roommate and I shut the door, looked at each other, and said only, “Good Lord.” At first, I thought again, it’s like being a freshman for the second time. On my freshman hall two years ago, such conversations were a staple: we lived to try to right the wrongs of the world, and the great thing was, we never even had to leave the room to do so. But after having remembered this, I was sort of struck by the realization that I hadn’t even witnessed such a conversation since I left for the summer after my freshman year. At some point, a cynicism of sorts must have set in: I guess I “got real” and everyone else did too. I do not mean to suggest that freshmen, because they are one, two, or three years younger than the rest of us, are naive and unrealistic. In fact, I think quite the opposite of that is true. I just think the rest of us sort of gave up on idealism. After today, I’m convinced that if the freshmen were in charge around here, they could do almost everything short of ending world hunger. Of course, the rest of us are just too damn tired.

If the press corps, the Soviet Union might never have been plunged into those three days of darkness. Do we blame Gorbachev for the coup (Oh horror of horrors!)? Partially; although ultimate responsibility rests with his betrayers, Gorbachev was hardly a prisoner of war. A prisoner of his own fear treaty that would move the Soviet Union in the direction we described the event that provoked the right into toppling Gorbachev? A document, remember, that was eked out of Gorbachev largely at Yeltsin’s insistence. It would have radically altered the Soviet Union, transforming it into a confederacy on the order of Canada, similar to the one we described so many Birks ago. So, the moral here, boys and girls, is relatively simple; had the Russian leadership (particularly Gorbachev) been reading The Davidsonian rather than their own pulp journalism for the last year or so (excluding all that Feminist/Politically Correct dribble), they would have sensed the winds of change. Democracy would have been achieved peacefully (it’s kind of a Bill and Ted effect) and mother Russia would have entered the twenty-first century a thriving, cosmopolitan society. And it’s just too bad, too. No need to thank us. But, if all the world’s leaders start reading “Beyond Birkenstock” RIGHT NOW, maybe we can achieve world peace by 1996, when the Republicans retake control of Congress. Just to rub it in though (we closed the Gorbachev column with a bang), we’ll use the wonderful journalistic technique of self-quotation one more time in lieu of thinking up something new. “Remember, revolutions by definition are a violent repudiation of the old political order, with the emphasis on violence. Change will come, whether we like it or not. By refusing to help Yeltsin now, we may not get a ride at all.”

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS: YOUR FIRST UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE EXAM. RELAX, IT’S TRUE OR FALSE.

[] T [] F “Army ROTC” looks great on a student’s resume. (True... Employers seek out graduating seniors who have leadership qualities. Army ROTC students gain leadership experiences and officer credentials which give them a competitive edge for career success.)

[] T [] F By enrolling in an Army ROTC class, you'll be committed to military service. (False... You can take freshman and sophomore military science courses without obligation.)

[] T [] F Army ROTC doesn’t fit into your college schedule. (False... Army ROTC courses are electives which fit into most degree programs. Most students take just one course each term, requiring only a few hours each week.)

[] T [] F Students who complete the Army ROTC program serve their country as Army officers after college. (True... About half enter full-time active duty for 2 to 4 years. Others pursue their civilian careers right after while serving part-time as Army Reserve or National Guard officers in their communities.)

Now here's the “fill-in” portion of the exam. Fill in an Army ROTC freshman elective on your course schedule. You'll begin to acquire the confidence, self-discipline, and leadership skills essential for your future success. And you'll learn about opportunities for scholarships and other financial aid.

MIL 101 - The U.S. Army Today “Introduction to Leadership”
3 Sections: Monday 08:30 AM - 09:20 AM, Wednesday 01:00 PM - 01:50 PM, or Thursday 11:30 AM - 12:45 PM.

For more information: Contact Major Mike Hawkins Belk Hall, Room #2, 892-2165

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.