2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Ohio University Professors Lecture on Cold War

Not Back In The U.S.S.R.

ST. PAUL, Minn. (CPS) -- A play previously banned in the former Soviet Union will make its debut at a
U.S. college after student actors have spent months working with consultants as well as a director. For its production of
“Dear Elena Sergeevna,” Sears Eldredge, chairman of Macalester College’s dramatic arts department, asked a Soviet student and a Russian professor
who is an expert on Soviet affairs to work with his cast to help them better understand Soviet society. Eldredge
says the play was extremely challenging for his student actors because of its intensity and its message. The play, written
by Ludmilla Razumovskaya in 1980, tells the story of four high school math students who hold their teacher hostage with
hopes of getting final exam answers. The play, which has been performed in the former Soviet Union and Europe since
perestroika, will open Oct. 11 at Macalester and run through Oct. 19.

Freshman Policies Reviewed At Citadel

CHARLESTON, S.C. (CPS) -- The Citadel is undergoing a “healthy evaluation” after its president asked the military school’s governing board
to review the Fourth Class system. The system, found at all U.S. military schools, calls for freshmen to follow a
rigorous drilling and study schedule and says they should be referred to as “knobs.” The system forbids hazing, defined as
laying hands on a cadet. “We just want to make sure that the system is serving what it’s supposed to
do,” said Col. Ben Legare, public relations director. The system received some recent attention because 57 freshmen have withdrawn from
school so far this year. Although that number reflects the yearly average of departing first-year students, the departing students gained
more attention because “they are high visibility students as athletes,” Legare said. The school found that one outgoing athlete was
punched by another cadet and is trying to identify the cadet who committed the assault.

Corporation To Offer Bond Insurance

WASHINGTON (CPS) -- In order to meet equipment and building needs that could cost $100 billion over the next decade,
a government-backed corporation will begin insuring bonds issued by academic institutions. The College Construction Loan Insurance Association’s operating subsidiary, known
as Connie Lee, was established by Congress to complement federal grant and loan programs.

By Tom Price

Dr. David Williams and Dr. John Lewis Gaddis, professors of history at Ohio University, spoke Thursday on the subject of
“The Cold War from the Soviet Perspective.” Dr. Williams spoke in the afternoon on Kruschev and his “old thinking” during
the cold war. Thursday evening, Dr. Gaddis spoke on the historical ramifications of the cold war. Williams explained that Kruschev
earnestly believed that...

By Meredith Boone

Alumnus Thomas Frist, President of the American Leprosy Mission (ALM), returned to Davidson on Wednesday to discuss curing leprosy in
developing nations. While leprosy is not a significant problem in Western nations, it ranks as a major public health problem
in Asia, Africa, Latin America, and the Pacific Islands. There are thought to be approximately ten million lepers in the
world, with cases in every nation. Leprosy, also known as Hansen’s Disease, is caused by the bacillus Mycobacterium Leprae. Spread
by droplet infection through sneezing and coughing, the bacteria can live outside the human body for up to three weeks.
Once the disease is contracted, the incubation period lasts from two to five years before the first signs are...Free catalog
socialism would “beat out” capitalism because of its superior political ideology and its more efficient economic policies. During the Cold
War, Williams explained, Kruschev was genuinely optimistic about socialism’s preeminence. The Soviet’s leadership in space travel and the United States’
failure in Vietnam were among incidents which deepened Kruschev’s optimism.

In the evening session, Dr. Gaddis cited reasons for the Cold War’s collapse. Among these were a desire for freedom
among people living under socialist regimes and the maturation of leaders on both sides of the Cold War. Gaddis believes
that Reagan and Gorbachev are the leaders most responsible for the Cold War’s demise.

Dr. Williams is a graduate of Princeton University. He received his master's and doctoral degrees at Columbia University. Dr. Gaddis
received all of his education at the University of Texas.

Frist Speaks On Leprosy In Poor Nations

Leprosy first becomes detectable in a small patch on the skin which is insensitive to touch. If not treated, the
disease attacks the mucous membranes, nerves, and skin of its victim and may eventually lead to blindness, crippling, and deformity.
Fortunately, a cure has been found for Hansen’s Disease. Through a multi-drug therapy of three antibiotics, leprosy may be cured
in as few as six months. While the cure is relatively inexpensive, most of those afflicted with the disease are
unable to pay for their treatment.

Founded in 1906, the American Leprosy Mission is a Christian organization which works with Hansen's Disease victims throughout the world.
As President, Frist spoke of ALM’s major foci. First, the ALM hopes to eliminate leprosy as a major public health
problem by the year 2000 by making the cure available to all who are in need. The second major focus
involves the physical problems of those already afflicted with the disease. As leprosy desensitizes the victim’s nerves, many disabilities found
in lepers are results of the person’s inability to feel pain when he is getting hurt. For example, someone who
has lost all feeling in her hand may not be aware when it is being burnt on the stove. In
these common settings of abject poverty, infection easily sets in, and the person may even lose her entire hand.

To counteract these problems, the ALM teaches prevention methods for these disabilities among lepers. The ALM also makes possible rehabilitation
for those already disfigured by the disease and provides low-cost aids for those who have become handicapped. The third major
focus of the organization involves changing the social response to Hansen’s Disease. Leprosy has acquired a stigma as a highly
contagious, devastating disease. As a result, lepers were once confined to leper colonies and completely cut off from the outside
world. However, the ALM hopes to educate society to an understanding of the disease so that the stigma will disappear.
While the disease is contagious, only about five percent of the population are even susceptible to infection. Also, if the
disease does develop and is caught in its early stages, it causes no major problems. Due to the stigmas of
the past, Hansen’s Disease victims endure great psychological sufferings and feel illogical shame for their dis-

See "Leprosy" on page 3

BIKE BROKE? We can fix it! Call us! 663-8812 170 N. Main Street Mooresville M-F 10:30-6:00 Sat. 10:00-5:00 5-6 miles
N. of Davidson on Highway 115

Rollerblade.

FINANCIAL AID AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY! Special Grants Program. Every Student Eligible. No One Turned Down. Simple Application. Send name, address, and
$1.00 P&H fee (refundable) to: Student Services P.O. Box 22-4206 Hollywood, Florida 33022
