"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXII
MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991
NUMBER 21

A worker pours the foundation for the new apartments
Photo by Chris Lee

Construction on Apartments Begins
Courtesy of College Relations

Construction began last week at Davidson College on two new apartment-style student residence halls that will be ready for occupancy
next school year. The total cost of both buildings is $2.3 million, and an additional $180,000 is budgeted for their
furnishings. The contractor is Rogers Builders of Charlotte.

Richard Terry, director of residence life, said the buildings are using floor plans virtually identical to three residence halls constructed
in the same northeast area of campus three years ago. The area is now designated as D. Grier Martin Court
in honor of a former Davidson President. However, unlike the other buildings, the new ones will each include two elevator
shafts to meet new handicapped access codes.

The basic floor plan calls for three-story buildings with two apartments on each end for a total of 12 apartments.
Each apartment will house four students. They will have individual sleeping rooms, but share a bath-and-a-half, a kitchen, living room,
and balcony. One building, however, is being constructed on a hillside and will include a basement allowing for two additional
apartments, as well as a laundry, vending, and meeting space.

The residence halls, which are unnamed at this point, were approved by Davidson’s Board of Trustees at its February meeting
to relieve overcrowding of on-campus housing. Terry said that with the new residence halls Davidson will have 1,403 beds on
campus for its 1,500 students. Construction is expected to be finished by [See Building on Page 4].

Pew Award Assists Women and Minorities in Science and Math
By Lisa Gerrard

Davidson College, Duke University, Furman University, and five Ohio schools will share a $1.3 million grant from the Pew Science
Program in Undergraduate Education for a research and mentoring program for female and black students in science and math. The
Pew Science Program will award a total of $7.3 million to five clusters of colleges and universities, with 49 schools
involved nationwide. The grants continue support of teaching and research to recruit more science and math scholars.

The awards should help offset enormous shortages of scientists and engineers expected by the year 2010. The Bureau of Labor
Statistics reports that faculty retirements over the next 20 years will outstrip the number of available new Ph.D.’s, resulting in
fewer scholars at a time when more jobs than ever will require scientific background and expertise.

“Those statistics are rather disturbing,” said John Williamson, chairman of the Davidson College biology department. “The United States is not
training enough people to replace those who are moving out. And 50 percent of those who are being trained are
not Americans but foreign nationals who may or may not stay in the country. We should be training more. The
thrust of the Pew project is to increase the participation of under-represented groups in science and math. The interest is
there, we just have to cultivate it.”

Three years ago, the Pew Science Program awarded grants to eight clusters of schools, involving 72 private colleges and research
universities selected for their leading role in the education of scientists and mathematicians. Davidson was among them. After careful monitoring,
the program chose the most promising projects for continued support. The grants now awarded will fund these efforts for another
three years.

The strongest and most productive projects cited by the Pew Science Program involve faculty and curriculum development. The Carolina/Ohio cluster
program includes peer groups, mentoring by successful female and black scientists, career conferences, summer research, and fieldwork. It begins...The freshman
year and continues through a first teaching appointment. Williamson says several Davidson College students in the program will complete research
projects at Duke University this summer, while students from other schools will come to work with Davidson professors. “All of
the funded projects involve collaborative efforts because such efforts provide institutions with capabilities that even the best institutions could not
attain individually,” said John Gurgus, Pew Science Program director and Princeton University psychology professor. “These collaborative programs enable schools to
take advantage of their complementary projects,” said Thomas Langfitt, president of Pew Charitable Trusts, the organization that funds the program.
The Pew Charitable Trusts, a national philanthropy based in Philadelphia, support nonprofit organizations dedicated to improving the quality of life
for individuals and communities and encouraging personal growth and self-sufficiency. Grants are awarded in the areas of conservation/environment, culture, education,
health and human services, public policy, and religion.

Courtesy Of College Relations

Davidsonian Wins Intercollegiate Press Association Awards
By Sean Lind

On Saturday, March 23 at the North Carolina Inter-Collegiate Press Association awards presentation, The Davidsonian received eight awards for the
paper’s excellence. The awards ceremony, held this year at Campbell College in Buies Creek, North Carolina, is an annual event
which recognizes journalistic achievement in college newspapers around the state of North Carolina. The Davidsonian received first place for Editorials
and Special Sections. In the Business Excellence category, the paper was awarded first place for House Ad. The Davidsonian also
received first and second place awards for sports photography. Staff members Joe Maris and Chris Lee received individual recognition. Maris
won first place in the Review category for his article on Postcards from the Edge. Lee received first place for
best news photo. The Davidsonian placed third overall in the 1A category, made up of schools with less than 5,000
students. Former Editor-in-chief Jay Chaudhuri commented on The Davidsonian’s success: “I’m elated about these awards because they represent the hard
work of the staff. I’m sure that in the future the paper can carry on in this tradition of excellence.”
Editor-in-chief David Thompson said, “It’s always nice to receive a piece of paper that’s suitable for framing. In all seriousness,
Jay [Chaudhuri] and Mark [Puckett] should be commended for assembling such a fine staff last year. I only hope we
can continue winning so many awards.”

SGA Announces Election Winners
By Tom Koonce

On Tuesday, April 2, elections were held for SGA class senators. Three senators were elected from each class. The person
who received the most votes in each class election is the president of that class. The class president for rising
seniors is Prem Manjooran. Manjooran served briefly as junior class president after Cammie Covington was elected SGA president. The other
two senior senators are Jackie Carberry and Paul Rybiski. The class president for rising juniors is Anthony Foxx. Foxx has
served on the Honor Council for the past year. He must resign from that position to take over his new
job with the SGA. The other junior senators are Catherine Turner and Joe Cook. Cook was president of the sophomore
class for the past year. Turner has also previously served on the Senate. The president of next year’s sophomore class
is Jenifer Humphrey. The other sophomore senators are Alden Smith and Will Canu.

Inside
News: Pittard Wins Rotary Scholarship. See Page 2.
Awareness. See Page 3.
Opinions: Rami Writes In From Rome. See Page 6.
Hairless Bob Hornsby! See Page 6.
YSSC Sponsors Hunger Awareness. See Page 3.
Campus Living: REM's Out Of Time Reviewed. See Page 9.
Auto Tips. See Page 10.
Sports: Baseball Report. Page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036
