Che Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991 NUMBER 8

Development Moves Forward On McConnell Pond Property
By Tom Koonce

After ideas were presented from three different companies, a group of interested faculty and staff members decided on the land plan to be used for the future development on the McConnell Property. This development will be on the 98-acre property that begins after the last house on the left as you leave on Concord Road. This property will contain a total of 198 lots to be divided equally between Davidson faculty and staff housing and public housing.

The plan to be used for this development is one that preserves the community feeling of the town of Davidson. The planned houses will vary in size and shape and will be fairly close together. Vice President for Business and Finance Bob Sutton said, “The intent is to make it fit in with the existing feeling of the town.” Sutton commented on how this plan was successful in avoiding a normal suburban look where all houses are architecturally the same.

The plan includes 12,970 feet of streets that are lined by sidewalks on each side with trees in between the streets and the sidewalks. The plan also shows six parks in the development. These include a central football field-size ‘village green’ park and a park that surrounds a pond on the property. Sutton said that no property lines would extend down to this three-acre pond. Sutton also said that there will be no houses on Concord Road. He said that a landscaping easement will be used to separate the development from Concord Road.

The design is a result of feedback from companies along with determining cost estimates from different plans. These ideas along with faculty and staff feedback eventually evolved into this plan.

See "Property" on page 3

Forum Addresses Student Concerns With Honor System
By Walter Price

On Tuesday, October 8, The Student Government Association sponsored a forum to discuss potential reforms in the honor system at Davidson. Led by a six-member student panel, approximately 60 students came to Chambers Gallery to voice their support of and concerns with the current process. As a result of student interest in this issue, SGA President Cammie Covington discussed the possibility of a campus-wide referendum on changes in the system. “Now it will be up to the Student Conduct Council to look at the issue and determine whether changes in the system are feasible,” Covington said.

Covington said that in order for a referendum to be passed, two-thirds of the student body must participate and requires a two-thirds majority to pass. The forum began with opening statements from the panel members concerning their views of the present honor system. The panel was comprised of: Anthony Foxx, former honor council member, John Howell, chair of the honor council, Mimi Plauche, student solicitor for the honor council, David Thompson, editor of The Davidsonian, Sally Stone, sophomore, and Craig Wall, SGA representative for Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Thompson opened the discussion with a proposal to change the present system of honor council members hearing cases to a jury system that would require the participation of the entire student body. Thompson noted that this system would serve to facilitate more fair trials while involving more students directly in the honor system. Additionally, Thompson felt that the jury system would circumvent a potential hazard in the present system. “A close examination of the system shows that there is too much power in the hands of a limited group,” Thompson said. According to Thompson, this can subject the system to the mercy of a chair or secretary. As the system works now, Thompson said, good faith is the only limitation of the honor council chair manipulating a jury or a secretary “packing a jury”.

Stone followed Thompson, echoing his sentiments for the advent of a student jury system. Stone felt that every “student is a...

See "Honor" on page 3

Two ASU Students Advocate The Legalization of Drug Use
By Ross Sloop

Last week the College Union hosted Johnathan Walker and Jay Neal as the guest lecturers for the Thursday 4:00 forum. The two Appalachian State University students advocated the legalization of all drugs. From a moral standpoint, Walker cited man’s freedom as an important reason why drugs should be made legal. He believes that it is not the government’s place...to define and enforce the morality of drugs. He further claimed that the government should not be able to decide what activities are safe or overly dangerous. Walker proposed the theory that if the government will not allow people to use certain drugs because they are dangerous, then they should prohibit people from driving in rush-hour traffic since it too can often be life-threatening. Walker then pointed out that much of today’s inner-city crime and violence is due to the pushing of illegal drugs. Through legalization, the black market would be eliminated and, with it, many of today’s drug-related murders. Crack is a highly potent form of cocaine and one of the most deadly drugs around. By adding foreign substances to cocaine, the drug becomes much more addictive and much more dangerous. Walker observed that if cocaine were legal, crack would never have been created. By legalizing drugs, the government could control the potency of substances as well as purify the drugs of dangerous additives. Walker went on to cite the therapeutic effects of drugs such as marijuana. Doctors have found that marijuana can stop a full-blown asthma attack, and it is also useful against glaucoma, arthritis, and rheumatism. Marijuana can also serve as an effective sleeping aid for insomniacs. Drug legalization would also provide farmers with a useful crop. Marijuana is a better cash crop than cotton, even clothes.

“Into the Streets” Promotes Awareness
By Catherine McEaddy

This week, Davidson students will be going “Into the Streets” for a week of volunteering and community awareness. There is something for everyone, with numerous activities for students to become involved in helping their community. “Into the Streets” is part of a nationwide effort, funded by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation to promote volunteering in over 50 colleges nationwide. Campus organizations participating are Reach Out (YSSC), SGA, InterVarsity Christian Fellowship, the Chapel Committee, the Solidarity Committee, Patterson Court, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and the Union. With so many organizations, there are countless possibilities for students, faculty, administration, and the Davidson community to become involved.

The week is designed around a specific issue every day. Monday is Education and Literacy Day. The SGA will host its annual student/faculty social from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. in the foyer of Chambers. The Reach Out Program will show a video about its education activities in the 900 Room at 10 p.m. Other Reach Out videos portraying Davidson volunteer activities will be shown in the Union throughout the week. On Tuesday, Children and Youth Day, there will be a party for children of the Davidson Elementary tutoring program, Big Brother/Sister programs, and church groups at 3:30 on the lawn in front of Chambers. All of these programs are sponsored by Reach Out. At 4:00, Davidson Together will sponsor a forum of students and community members to discuss the renovation of the Ada Jenkins School for use as a community center. The featured speaker will be Rev. Robert Shirley, interim pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church.

Wednesday is Homelessness Day. Chuck Hasty, college chaplain, will speak about community service during the Eleventh Hour at 11:30 in Lingle Chapel. The CROP luncheon will focus on homelessness issues. At 11 p.m. students are invited to Hobart Park to sing and pray. Afterwards, they will walk to the lawn in front of Chambers to spend the night outside. This “sleepout” is done to promote awareness of what it’s like to be without a home and is sponsored by Habitat for Humanity. “The sleepout is a way to raise campus awareness of people who have no home or shelter, something that most of us at Davidson can’t imagine,” Mary Faith Mount, Habitat’s coordinator said.

Thursday, Race Relations Day, features a dinner for invited students and faculty honoring student volunteers. Other activities on Thursday include a recycling project at Davidson’s recycling center.

See "Streets" on page 3.

INSIDE DAVIDSON

NEWS: Ohio University professors speak about the Cold War. See page 2. Alumnus Thomas Frist returns to Davidson to discuss leprosy in nations. See page 2.

ARTS: Spots of Time. See page 11.

CAMPUS LIVING: Dean Rusk Program informs students. See page 13.

OPINIONS: about Honor Council

See "Drugs" on page 3.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036