MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

Movie Review | Joe Maris

Awakenings Is Warm And Sweet

Tom Hanks looks in a mirror in the film *Big* and is overwhelmed by the miraculous visage of a grown
man staring back at him with his own eyes. Having been magically transformed by a carnival booth into a mature
adult, Hanks’ character takes on the big city and teaches everyone the importance of retaining the child within in everything
one does.

Leonard Lowe undergoes a similar miraculous transformation in Penny Marshall’s second film project, *Awakenings*. Played by Robert De Niro, Lowe
suffers from a tragic catatonia that blocks his ability to communicate, but not his ability to receive stimuli. Lowe grew
up in a Bronx neighborhood as one of the brightest children in his school, but by the age of eleven,
the mysterious catatonia defiantly grabbed his consciousness and held his mind in check for almost thirty years.

Caught in a limbo state between consciousness and mental death, Lowe finally awakens and discovers in a mirror that the
medicine has magically awakened him from his catatonic shell. Lowe stares in amazement at the scruffy-faced, physically mature adult face
that stares back in dull stupor. See also, *Big*.

How will Leonard Lowe react to his new awakened state? Will he get the red-headed girl he falls for? Will
his mother “get a life” and leave? These questions are story number one. Who is the doctor that brought Lowe
back to life? This question belongs to story number two.

Dr. Malcolm Sayer, played by a bearded Robin Williams, nervously, but purposely, scampers the halls of the mental hospital with
an intense, albeit introverted, love for his work and his patients. Primarily a research scientist, Sayer gets the job at
the Bronx hospital with practically no patient interactive experience. The only friends he has had since medical school have been
a refrigerator full of plants and thousands and thousands of earthworms.

When Sayer comes upon a special case of catatonia by accident, he begins to believe that these patients remain conscious
of what is going on around them despite their blank stares. After a period of research into the cause of
and the medicine used for Parkinson’s disease, Sayer attains permission to use the Parkinson’s disease medicine on the patients. He
attains permission for only one patient: Leonard Lowe. Story number one.

*Awakenings* is Hollywood at its best and that is probably the film’s biggest problem. Overall, Penny Marshall’s film has all
the pathos of her earlier film *Big*, but that pathos is often over-exaggerated for those in the audience who are
almost in a state of catatonia themselves. The obvious underlying theme in the film commands the viewer to live his
or her life to the fullest. Sayer remains to himself most of the time and is really only interested in
plants. Lowe breaks out of his shell to live his life, but he is forced to stay inside the institution.
This subtle irony delivers its message to the audience without one of the characters having to wave his arms saying,
“Live your life to the fullest, life is happy, etc.” Yet, Lowe does just that. The tragic subtlety of the
film is ruined when Lowe comes up to Sayer and declares that no one in the hospital lives life to
his or her potential. In *One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest*, the viewer could easily determine that the stutterer was
cured by a prostitute without Nicholson having to state that mental hospi—

Continued on Page 13

World War II Remembered
By Meredith Hammons

Fifty Years Ago

Across the country, people were debating United States entry into World War II. Davidson ROTC members were drilling to see
which company was best prepared for war. Davidson participated in the “Bundles for Britain” program by sending warm clothes and
money and by donating a portion of bookstore sales to British relief. Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected to a third
term of office. Davidson students voted on the Alma Mater between “Davidson, Our Alma Mater” and the current “All Hail
O’ Davidson.”

Twenty-Five Years Ago

During the Vietnam War, draft boards began looking more carefully at requests for deferment and taking college students who were
only attending class part-time or...who did not have good academic records. Seventy-nine percent of students and seventy-four percent of faculty
said that they favored the U.S. policy of involvement in Vietnam. Fourteen Davidson students participated in the Washington, D.C. peace
march. Under Coach Lefty Driesell, the Wildcats won the Southern Conference Tournament in basketball. The Temptations and the Coasters played
at Davidson for Spring Frolics.

Fifteen Years Ago
Hugh and Jane Parks Grey Library reopened as the Grey College Union. Davidson College was accused of renting substandard housing
in the town of Davidson. The E. H. Little Library opened. College President Spencer says some material for the school
annual “Quips and Cranks” is questionable and cuts it from the annual.

Five Years Ago
The inauguration of the Dean Rusk Program in International Studies took place. Kappa Sigma fraternity reformed after leaving campus in
1971, the year self-selection started. Inter-varsity Christian Fellowship began at Davidson. The Wildcat basketball team won the Southern Conference title
and went to the NCAA tournament. A Solidarity rally was held on the Davidson campus in response to a Ku
Klux Klan march in the town.

Are you unable to afford eye care? If so, you and your family may be eligible for free eye examinations
through VISION USA.

By Amanda Grim

Dr. Rosemarie Tong is irate. She is disturbed about the last question of the interview: How do you feel about
the Gulf Crisis? “I’ve never been an absolute pacifist,” she declares, “I have always been willing to listen to arguments
that promote war to achieve ‘a greater good’. But this time I haven’t been convinced that a war is justified.
As the parent of an 18-year-old and a teacher of young men between the ages of 18 and 22, I
can’t help but fear the great loss of potential if they should be killed in a war.”

Tong uses her special concerns on The National Committee on the Status of Women, the Ethics Committee of Presbyterian Hospital,
the Pastoral Care Committee of the Carolinas Medical Center, and the Bio-Ethics Resource Group in Charlotte. She has already published
three books including: Women, Sex, and the Law, Ethics in Policy Analysis, and Feminist Thought. A collaboration with a biochemist
from Williams College entitled Reproductive and Genetic Technology: the Ethical, Legal, and Social Implications is in the editing stage. Tong
also is collaborating on a feminist reader with two Notre Dame professors and is working on books addressing feminist ethics,
abortion, and new approaches to medical morality.

“I have always been willing to listen to arguments that promote war to achieve ‘a greater good’. But this time
I haven’t been convinced that a war is justified. As the parent of an 18-year-old and a teacher of young
men between the ages of 18 and 22, I can’t help but fear the great loss of potential if they
should be killed in a war.”

Tong’s doctorate from Temple University reflects her broad academic interests. She earned her PhD in Philosophy of Law with a
focus on the insanity defense. Much of Tong’s flexibility may have come from her history. She grew up in a
Czech neighborhood in Chicago with her parents and did not speak English until she started kindergarten.

Continued on Page 13
