**The Davidsonian**

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXII MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991 NUMBER 17

"Publish Or Perish"? Faculty Says Teaching Comes First

By Lisa Gerrard

The National Review College Guide, published earlier this year, portrays Davidson as falling slowly into the evil clutches of the “publish or perish” creature lurking about fine liberal arts institutions. “As (Davidson) moves into the national spotlight,” states the Review, “some college administrators and faculty members have been pushing for a greater emphasis on published ‘research’ as a qualification for hiring and promoting professors.... Some senior professors, who are among the school’s most distinguished, go so far as to say they doubt they would be awarded tenure at Davidson today because of the shift toward research.”

Truth or propaganda? The Davidsonian asked nine faculty members from eight departments. The overwhelming majority disagree with the Review’s statements. From department chairs to the recently tenured to a first-year assistant professor, they maintain that Davidson’s first priority is teaching, and see no dichotomy between goals of excellence in the classroom and aspirations of accomplishment in their fields.

“It’s not true,” said Dr. John Williamson of the biology department. “I think that anything you see in The National Review you should forget.”

“There’s a myth present in the land, and that’s that one has to make a choice between being a teacher and being a researcher,” said Dr. Thomas Kazee of the political science department. “I don’t see those two as incompatible. At Davidson, we can do both.”

Students seem to agree. Senior psychology major Kim Hartsell and senior physics major Josh Henderson say they like the fact that professors have ongoing research projects because it gives them the chance to participate and learn more than they would in a purely text-oriented classroom.

But warning voices continue to echo in the halls of Chambers and other academic buildings. Most of those interviewed were department chairs. Dissenting faculty members say those who hold these appointed positions reflect the administration’s views and not the real picture. They warn of “window dressing” that hypes excellent teaching but expects published work at too early a point in an academic’s career.

Dr. Gill Holland of the English department read

Covington Elected To SGA Presidency

By Sean Lind

The results of the SGA elections, held on Tuesday, February 19 and Wednesday, February 20th, are in. In the top positions, Cammie Covington emerged victorious as President and Laura Cunningham succeeded in her bid for the Vice Presidency.

Covington commented on her present success and plans for the future: “I am very excited about winning the election. It was fun to be able to celebrate our victory at the last basketball game with my own victory. I am ready and willing to give everything I’ve got towards making this a productive year for the SGA.”

In other categories, Susan McDonald was elected to the Review Board; Beth Ford and Andrew Spainhour to the CCRL; Emily Hines and Tom Koonce to SCC; Malanuk, Bess Murchison, Carter Payne, and Robert Rostan to the 1992 Honor Council; David Lindsay, Catherine Milligan, and Alan Verm to 1993 Honor Council; and Peter Amidon, Ward Davis, and John Wilson to the 1994 Honor Council.

New Davidsonian Editors Announced

By Sean Lind

The Davidsonian has appointed the new editorial staff for the 1991-92 year. Next year’s Editor-in-Chief will be David Thompson, and the Executive Editors will be Walter Price and Leigh McKeever.

Thompson is a junior English major from Hickory, North Carolina. He has been a columnist for the opinions section and is currently the news editor. When asked to comment on his new position and hopes for the future, Thompson stated “I’m too damn busy with the paper to give you a quote,” but added that he was looking forward to running the Davidsonian next year.

Executive Editor Leigh McKeever also expressed enthusiasm, saying, “I am really excited about the future of The Davidsonian. I intend to put forth my best effort.”

Walter Price, Co-Executive Editor, comments, “I’m very excited about the opportunity to be an Editor. I hope we can build on what Jay (Chaudhuri) and Mark (Puckett) have accomplished and make The Davidsonian an even better college newspaper.”The Review’s statement, his immediate response was, “That’s absolutely right.” He feels that the current administration’s emphasis on research pushes the faculty to a dangerous “university mentality” that could result not only in less concern for students, but also in “unripe scholarship.” “I don’t like the trend,” Holland said. “I’ve always thought that scholarship was important. But with the new administration, I think it’s out of balance. I find myself defending the old way, while in previous years I took the other side. It’s as if there is something grade ‘B’ about teaching and taking regular sabbaticals to do slow research -- and that’s dangerous. Extra leaves ‘to do one’s work’ bring in more and more temporary instructors, and that’s bad for the students.”

Several professors noted evaluation procedures detailed in the faculty handbook, which reads, “The criteria for faculty evaluation at Davidson are: (1) excellence in teaching, (2) demonstration of superior professional attainments in research, scholarship, and curriculum design, and (3) exemplification of the intellectual and moral values for which the College stands.” While an emphasis on “professional attainments” flows throughout the handbook, it maintains that “while no precise weights...can be attached to each of these areas, excellence in teaching is a necessary condition for tenure.” The handbook explains that “good teaching matters, and requires continual study to keep up with developments in one’s field and to achieve that understanding of related fields so important to the idea of liberal education.” In regard to publication, it states that “quality will be deemed more significant than quantity.”

One professor said that when he was awarded tenure just last spring, his only published work was one article and some critical reviews. He had submitted a book manuscript for publication but did not know if it would be accepted or not. “I don’t feel like I was penalized because I didn’t have a lot of things published,” he said.

Dr. Anthony Abbott of the English department agrees with Dean of Faculty Robert Williams that the College still considers teaching the most important factor in the decision to grant tenure. Candidates may be considered after six years of teaching, at least three of which must have been at Davidson. At that time, evaluation begins in the department, where all tenured members formulate a recommendation and forward it to the

Continued on Page 2

Visual Arts Building Changes

Groundbreaking on the new Visual Arts Building is likely to take place within the next twelve months. James Gibert, Assistant Director of Development, said that he is hesitant to target a specific date because fundraising efforts always have a certain degree of uncertainty. The blueprints for the new arts facility have changed since the plans were unveiled last spring. Originally, the facility was to include four separate buildings, now there will be just one building. Gibert said the decision to build one instead of four was made mainly to cut costs. “The new plan should save about $600,000,” he said. Gibert also said that the new plans will not significantly change the amount of usable floor space. Instead of a courtyard separating the four buildings in the old design, the new plan calls for a two-story glass-roofed atrium. Surrounding the atrium will be instructional studios, lecture halls, individual student studios, and the William H. Van Every Gallery. The facility will be located in the visitors parking lot on the corner of Main and Griffith Street. Planning for the Visual Arts Center began in the early eighties and is intended to reduce the crowding of the Music, Theatre, and Visual Arts departments currently based in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

Artist's rendition of Davidson College's planned Visual Arts Building. Design is by Graham Gund Architects of Boston.

INSIDE

News
Dean Rusk To Sponsor Environmental Conference. Page 2
Alumnus Earnhardt Speaks About Environment. Page 3.

Opinions
D.A. Thompson's Farewell Scribble. Page 7
Why Coach McKillop Is “Poor Excuse For A Man." Page 6
Entertaining The Idea Of A Fine Arts Week. Page 6

Sports
Campus Living
College Bowl Is The Winningest Activity On Campus. Page 9.
Health Nut Marlo Cobb Writes About All Kinds Of Cereal. Page 10.
Basketball Defeats Campbell. Page 13.
Men's Soccer Receives Honor. Page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, N.C. 28036