THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

Thanks and Giving and Our American Past

Just thinking of the Pilgrims... Sitting there ‘round that big ole Rock—Plymouth—attempting the first Thanksgiving... they dressed in black, didn’t they? Big hats, collars so stiff that vigorous neck-bending just might sever a jugular. (I also like muskets. I’m sure someone had a musket)... when Columbus or somebody piped up, “Let us pray”—and our forefathers bowed their heads—this meant trouble... more than vig- Oh! it makes me tingle... The whole mess of ‘em—Bradstreet, Lincoln, E. Lee, Hamilton... the young Paul Revere must have realized then the power to be felt in his homeland, the love for his people, the patriotic fervor, that would later lead him to invent the automobile.

And the food! Yu-uh-um! Collards and taters and fu yung chicken—they’d have it all!... the wafting deliciousness of apple pie (Bradstreet’s specialty), fudgesicles, and baklava making our progenitors more than inspired, at least antsy for dessert... and then, the main course (presided over by an ancestor of Hawthorne’s). Vermicelli (or Catholic?) lowered his head with that coltish exuberance seen only in striking snakes and in Puritans blessing their first meal in a nation completely devoid of theaters... and sliced cleanly through his neck (too much starch)—overcome by fashion?—certainly dead.

The first Thanksgiving, consequently, fell through—Italians became known, thereafter, as immigrants, and the maid Hiawatha, in cleaning up the mess, gained a propitious aversion to the concept of decapitation; but otherwise, nothing thanks-worthy happened that day (Hiawatha’s aversion, not Italians becoming known as immigrants, being worthy of thanks). No one ate; no one drank; no one flayed a pig, made a ball of its hide, and went in for six. “A fiasco,” said Standish. “A pisser,” claimed Jefferson. “Wait’ll next year,” chirped the cooks (losing one’s masterpiece to an influx of human blood can be frustrating).

And what a year, and what a Thanksgiving, it was to be...

...there they are (yes, the present tense, so that you may feel their feast) again... gathered ‘round the Rock... triumphant, celebrant, fattened by a year spent feeding off the bounty of a blessed land... Here’s to Ourselves!... (clink)... Just think—the fourth Thursday of November in the year of our genesis... Vermicelli outa’ there (he was a bit shady)... Only the Greats—John Winthrop warming everyone about the collar thing, George Washington in control, Ben Franklin bending his fork into a key—a set of Fathers any country might embrace; a set of hosts we alone possess. Mr. serials soslltlpledss pass the salt...

They rose at dawn and festivated ‘till dark (remember, Thomas Edison wasn’t even born yet. They had to stop at dark)—living, loving, laughing... And Jonathan Edwards said the blessing. “Let us pray...” (quick summary—he prayed something about a big spider-web, a really filament-ridden and gross one, coming down and getting all mixed up in some food—I think it was the mashed potatoes—he prayed that the taters would become fibrous to the absolutely most detestable degree and then that he and his brethren would eat them anyway—and enjoy it).

And they must have had them some yams (OED, def. #4: Southern U.S.—the sweet potato). I say this because yams are a tuber. I say that because I hope you will be amused. Now, seriously... I’m an American, I have always liked Thanksgiving; but when I learned to eat my yams I fell in love. Off-orangish brown, dull reddish amber—Aunt B. used to top her yams with a layer of melted marshmallows—all sweet and foamy and white atop the gelatinous mass. As a youngster, I thought the whole business looked like rabid dirt; as a mature adult, however, every T-day I inhale me some yams. Again, I am an American. The Fathers of MY country ATE their damn yams... thank God for those Pilgrims.

Andrew Spainhour: Remembering Christmas All Year

On Thursday night, in the midst of final papers and reviews and exam preparations, a good chunk of the student body came together in front of Chambers, drank some hot cider, and sang Christmas carols by candlelight. The annual experience reaffirmed, as in years past, my naive belief that all people are intrinsically good. Even during the most hellish weeks of a torturously long semester, Davidson folk couldn’t help but be nice to one another. It did the soul good.

Two hours before the Miracle on the Lawn, life at Davidson was not nearly so rosy. Most students were STRESSED. I myself wanted to curl up in a fetal ball underneath a desk at the Computer Center, and I hoped for all the world somebody would take me away to “a quiet place,” just like they did with Jim Bakker during his trial. Though Davidson at times has about as much Christmas spirit as December in Mecca, events like the Campus Christmas Party seem to somehow rejuvenate people, melting tension and frustration. Though the euphoria is, in reality, short-lived, the message does not fade. Despite differing religious beliefs and backgrounds, at Christmas, many of us at Davidson, in some manner or another, are touched by a spirituality of sorts that is somehow very gratifying, even if we don’t know what we believe all the rest of the year. Exams still make things very tough, of course, but somehow seeing Christmas spirit around you can be very comforting.

Christmas can be very empowering—it makes us feel a little better—it heals old wounds. This time of year, we all are allowed aLittle reversion to childhood and a small measure of sappiness, and so I want to invoke a childish and sappy, yet fervent wish. I hope we can maybe remember what it was that brought us outside last Thursday night during the upcoming semester, to make us all feel a little better when things here are not so easy—and to heal old wounds.

Scribblings

The worst part about Christmas is waiting for it, and you can trust that the road toward that ever-elusive goal is a long one. First, your teachers start talking about final exams. (The bad part of the coming of Christmas is that it is preceded by these palsy little tests of worthless knowledge we plan to forget as soon as possible.) Then you’re eating your turkey with your grandparents and watching a parade that inevitably ends with Santa on a fire truck. Whether you are watching Kermit the Frog float down Fifth Avenue or your little cousin riding her bicycle down Main Street is irrelevant. The important thing is that Santa is on his annual trip to see who’s been naughty and who’s been nice. But Santa heads back up north after a while and there’s a bit of a lull in the excitement. You come study every night until finals and then leave as soon as possible. Of course, you head to the Pub on Monday, your lounge on Wednesday, and Backstreet on Thursday. Surprisingly enough, you see your friends there accompanied by that little juvenile influence, beer. Luckily, there are a few posters hanging up in those establishments with beautiful bodies sitting in Santa’s lap trying to appeal to the truly childish side of your psyche. Then Santa returns by way of a rappel rope and you forget just for a second that people would actually threaten to kill someone because of their sexual choices. Still, your Christmas spirit is rekindled and you head back to your dorm with visions of sugarplums dancing in your head. And you put on your cap and settle down for a nap. Then what should appear but three friends who want to sing more Christmas carols. So you climb out of bed and decide you’ll just do the next day’s reading when you study for finals. Well, Vespers rolls by and you’re really impressed with the singing. But then it’s reading day and you remember the Grinch is coming in two days from the day after today and you run to the library to study a little. Still, those days without classes remind you of home where you soon will be, and it’s a little bit hard to get much work done. So finals pass and you feel alright. You probably could have studied more on Saturday night but it’s all past you now. Then you think, “It’s all past me! I’m done with a semester!” It’s like the whole weight of Chambers has been taken off your back. It's the feeling you get after finishing a mid-term week times a million. You're giddy and silly and you scream at your friends. You don’t even pack; you just throw it all in your suitcase and laugh as you throw out all of your notes. It's Christmas and soon you are going to get presents because Santa’s coming back south for a one-night tour. So remember to ask for a 4.0 when you write Santa and get ready because you are about to get absolute proof that there are some things that even Santa can’t do.

Lind

Continued from page 5

pennant and almost take the Series. O.K. Maybe that has nothing to do with Davidson, but it’s still damn strange. --Swastikas? Wait a minute. I’m the one in Germany. I thought we had the monopoly on Neo-Nazi jerks. (A tip for rooting out the coward: the guy with no hair did it.) You’re not far off the mark if, at this point, you’re asking yourself, “What the hell is this behind-the-times idiot talking about?” Just sort of reprising that old Dylan lyric, I suppose. Anyway, I just wanted to express a little concern about the radical change of things at my current Mater. I think it was either Shakespeare or Jesus (they always have the best quotes) who said, “Be nice to each other.” Relax. Sit back. Use your poison pens to poke a hole in a can of beer. Then use your poison tongues to drink it.

Concerned in Deutschland
Sean Lind '93

Foxx

Continued from page 7

Davidson, and intolerance, and the overall tension? Many of us, maybe not most, have a good understanding of the history that brings us to the present. What does that have to do with the price of dry goods on Main Street?

JPD: Well, Davidson is filled with the brightest and most gifted minds in America, yet there is still a great need to change the way we view things. Until my friend put herself in a situation where she was discriminated against, she never had to face what I live. She was concerned about her own needs, but ideally, we need to think of the needs of others, too. I like to live by the saying “I am, because we are.” We ended the conversation on a very good note, but its central thrust was to change her perception and view discrimination as a problem that affects us all. And that, my friend, was accomplished.

A: Well, I have a couple of sayings that I live by. My favorite is “Beware of ‘Mediterranean night’ at the Commons.”

JPD: Word, I live by that saying as well. Yo’, dog, I’m out, but tell “J” when he returns from his mission at Victoria’s Secret, “What up.”

A: Alright, peace out and good luck on exams, and, to all those who roam obscure parts of the campus with us, same to you. Peace.