4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

The Davidsonian

DAVID THOMPSON, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
Founded in 1914
LEE MCIVER, Campus Living Editor
“The South's Foremost College
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
Weekly”
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor
PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor

Tick, Tock

There is a storm on the horizon. By the time you pick up this paper, January 15th - the deadline for Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait - will be less than twenty-four hours away. Indeed, the Middle East crisis is not Davidson’s No. 1 obsession. Students have just begun to open their textbooks for the new Spring semester, and freshmen are still recuperating from self-selection night. At the moment, Davidson remains insulated from the real world. Yet a dark gloomy cloud hangs heavy over our head.

Fortunately, Davidson and other college campuses across the land are still regarded as having an important input to the current dilemma in spite of being so sheltered. In a letter sent to 460 college and university newspapers, President Bush appealed for support for a possible war in the Persian Gulf, saying he might have to use force “to stand up for human life.” Mr. Bush’s appeal in itself is indicative of how much weight the administration gives to us. Thus, the activism that happened on this otherwise apathetic campus last semester must continue. And it is. Regardless of your ideological views, there are plenty of activities on campus. Editors, columnists, and staff writers have worked diligently to help compile this year’s first issue of The Davidsonian, which is filled with articles and op-ed pieces on the Persian Gulf problem. Tonight at 7:30, the Dean Rusk program is holding a Foreign Affairs forum on the Middle East. On Tuesday at 5:15, a peace vigil is being held in front of Chambers. Finally, on Friday, Davidson students will be leaving for Washington for a peace march.

Nonetheless, whether you believe U.S. involvement is wrong or not, the important matter is to educate yourself. Middle Eastern politics, of course, are confusing. Yet, as today draws to a close, the politics we once assumed perplexing may unfortunately allow us to learn something greater about ourselves and this country in general.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Thursday during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year.

Letters

"Queenies" Offer Rebuttal

To the Editor:

We have recently received a copy of the article, “Where do Queen’s Women Come From?” Well, first of all, eighty percent come from Davidson Alumni. Yes, most “Queenies” are educated and supported by their fathers who graduated and married a “Queenie.” So, actually it’s Davidson Alumni who give “Queenies” most of their money. I don’t think Cindy Crawford would have enjoyed this article. Since she’s a “Queenie” and you think all “Queenies” are “large-haired socialites” who “blow chunks” in your bushes. Well, she has done her share of partying at Davidson. And you think we are dumb - think again! Who are the idiots that didn’t take the time to know her - who only passed her off as a “good-looking Queenie?” Anyway, how many Queens girls do you know? How can you stereotype our school when you probably can’t even recall the full names of ten girls from Queens. I’m sure I can speak for the majority of “Queenies” that we don’t really care what you think. Our dads are rich and we're a bitch. We have everything we need: our looks, our large bank accounts from our loving Davidson Alumni father, and our stimulating...Conversations with all of the young male yuppies in Charlotte. These “out-of-graduate-men” who have realized that “smart but homely” girls may have a higher IQ; but shall we say, after marriage and children, they also have a much larger dress size. (Don’t take this personally Davidson girls - Davidson guys said that one!) How many models does Davidson have? I don’t know but it’s funny there are always “Queenies” modeling lingerie in your newspaper ads. So if you don’t take the time to really know a nice “Queenie,” then you all are the idiots - not us!

Sincerely,
Your “Queenies”

December 6, 1990
Burns Burns
Davidsonian

To the Editor:

Here it comes, my first venture into the world of the printed word since July... I was reading The Davidsonian (Nov. 15) and keeping one foot on the floor after a hellacious night of voluminous quantities of French wine (legally!) when I realized that if I wanted the bed to stop spinning, I’d have to drink more and pass out or stay up for another hour or two. So I thought of tomorrow morning and decided to write this letter. So here it comes.

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly” was a meager eight pages. Please - you’d be lucky to be the “The South’s Least Read High School Quarterly” at that rate. And oh, I was filled with such hope after the first, revamped (and very good) edition of this year’s Davidsonian. Since then, the paper has been filled with frivolous squabbling over hairy legs (no big deal really, I see them all the time over here, armpits too for that matter), and libelous unprofessional raging over being towed from a parking place you shouldn’t be in the first place. Please - you ruin a man’s reputation for two months and then apologize with one paragraph? Come on folks, half of journalism is research, you should know that.

Yes, between article repeats, tortuous paragraphs of “Enjoy a Vegetarian Thanksgiving” and pablum-puking sports editorials, there are some gems of good college journalism. But one gets tired of searching for readable material in a publication from a school of Davidson’s quality. I am especially disappointed in my successor. I may not have been a great Sports Editor, but at least I managed to agitate the administration occasionally. I, and a lot of other people on this side of the pond, are tired of reading that “the great, magnificent Davidson Athletics department made another super decision yesterday... brownnose... brownnose... brownnose...” Come on Bruce, criticize! You want my advice? Too bad... Can everybody and print the great photos, D.A. Thompson, Marlo Cobb, Tom Koonce, “Life in Hell” and “Freddy” on a mimeograph sheet and slide under students’ doors. You’ll save the college a lot of money and your reader a lot of pain (although they might miss the weekly laugh - they need it with a 5-day exam period).

Come on folks, I bet you can do better, after all, you supported Harvey Gantt in the recent (shameful) election. But that’s another letter... right now, I think I’ll have another glass of Beaujolais - when in Rome (or Montpellier)...

Sincerely,
JOHN BURNS ‘92
Montpellier, France
November 23, 1991

"Food Fine" Was "Fine" Success

To the Editor:

In December the Library changed the overdue fine system for the season allowing cans of food for the needy to replace the financial charges. The “Fine Food” table in the Library had on or under or around it 1,760 cans of food! Some folks who had no overdue fines even brought food to contribute. It was a resounding success. The food was given to the Davidson Community Center, thanks to the good offices of Beth Duttera, Campus Service Coordinator. When all of the needs were met there, over 200 cans were sent to Charlotte to help with its project for the needy. Thanks to everyone who made this project a big success. “Fine Food” from “fine people” for a “fine cause.”

Happy New Year,
LELAND M. PARK ‘63
Library Director
January 7, 1991

Write For The Atlanta Man Who Is Convinced That Georgia Tech Is #1
David Scott at x6615.

Advertising rates available on request.
Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.