THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

Ratliff Continued from page 1

Teaching in Pakistan for four years, Ratliff has taught continuously at Davidson, affecting so many Davidson students since 1947. In
an address to the faculty last week, Economics Chairman Clark Ross said, “His teaching has been characterized as highly enthusiastic,
full of real-life anecdotes—from Anson County to Pakistan—very rigorous, and truly reflective of his own personal values and commitments.”

“The function (of a teacher) is to produce a person that will be broad-gauged with a well-trained mind who will
be involved in working on the serious problems in the world,” said Ratliff. Why economics? Ratliff quoted his economics professor,
C. K. Brown, who said economics helps you to “understand society and make plans for its improvement.” Ross added in
the address that Ratliff “personally led the modernizing of economics at Davidson College, introducing the intermediate theory courses as well
as the history of economic theory, economic development, and South Asian economics.” Ratliff served as the chair of the economics
department for a portion of the 1950s and from 1966 until 1983.

Ratliff has been recognized numerous times for the excellent quality of his teaching. He received the Kenan professorship in 1977,
the Thomas Jefferson award in 1971, the ODK Teaching Award, and the Sears Roebuck Foundation Teaching Excellence Award in 1991.
Ratliff was also the first member of the Davidson faculty to receive a CASE Foundation award when he was recognized
as a national Gold Medal Winner in 1985.

Ratliff’s visits to Pakistan between 1963-1966 and 1969-1970 with the United Methodist Board of Global Ministries have had a large
influence on his life and the lives of others who have heard him speak in the classroom or elsewhere. “While
in Pakistan he taught at the Forman Christian College in Lahore. Upon his return, he became chairman of a non-western
studies committee that brought a South Asian studies program to Davidson.

In Pakistan, Ratliff saw firsthand mass poverty and unequal distribution of wealth. Observing this sad lifestyle, Ratliff was even more
convinced of the importance of economic solutions. The experience in Pakistan led Ratliff to develop his idea of a World
Development Fund. This fund would work to solve the large income differences between the northern (developed countries) and southern (lesser-developed
countries) hemispheres. By being a global sector that would tax all countries according to income per capita, the fund would
distribute money according to need. In this way, all countries would pay a tax, but the countries in the southern
hemisphere would receive the greatest amount of money generated by this tax. In 1987 these ideas were published in a
book by Ratliff entitled A World Development Fund.

This idea has been both applauded and challenged, but Ratliff maintains his optimism about this global sector and continues to
convey these ideas to others in hopes that one day mass poverty will be solved.

Ratliff’s service to students does not end in the classroom. At Davidson, he was part of a self-appointed committee that
drafted a resolution in 1960 that called for the integration of the college. Ratliff was also involved in making the
ROTC Department voluntary. He was also a member of President Spencer’s task force and commission that made Davidson co-educational. Ratliff’s
responsibility on this commission was analyzing the economic aspects of bringing women to Davidson.

Outside of the college, Ratliff’s service to the community has been extensive. In the Methodist Church, he has served on
various conference boards and committees and is a member of the Davidson Methodist Church choir. “His involvement with Christian ministry
is evident all around this area. Ratliff has served on the Board of Directors of Mecklenburg Ministries. Last month he
was asked to become a member of the Board of Directors of the Crisis Assistance Ministry in Charlotte.

Ross said in his address, “No one has been more willing to interpret and advocate Christian commitment within today’s society
than Charles. The number of presentations which he has made within church halls over the last forty years would swell
into the hundreds.”

THE WEAVER'S STUDIO located next to the Post Office parking lot.... Hours: 10-5 MWF 10-3 TTHS

BEFORE....DURING.... or AFTER EXAMS

BEFORE YOU GO HOME THINK...... "I need to give her/him/them something distinctive/ UNIQUE!" WE HAVE IT........ SOMETHING HANDWOVEN... SCARVES (for
men/women) Napkins/Placemats that need NO ironing! CLOTHING Interesting books on knitting, weaving, basketry, fiber arts. ASK US ABOUT LESSONS: '92

Dean Terrysaid, “He’s a Christian gentleman to the core.” Ratliff has also served on several town and county committees which
have dealt with housing inequalities, poverty, and community relations. In another illustration of his commitment to aiding the Third World,
he was elected to the board of directors of Bread for the World in 1983. The list of Ratliff’s public
service contributions is endless. Ross said, “Giving of time and expertise for a worthy endeavor has always been a completely
natural reaction for Charles, who, most assuredly, has never even contemplated the sum total of his unselfish commitment to others.”

At the end of this month, Charlie Ratliff will retire from his active teaching at Davidson. He commented on his
love for teaching and said, “The classroom is the high spot of my day.” Ratliff still finds it hard to
believe that he is not going to be teaching on a regular basis any longer. “All of a sudden you
realize you put it in the past tense. You become probably a stranger,” said Ratliff. Ratliff had originally planned to
retire last June but agreed to stay on through this semester. After this semester is over, he plans to travel
to Florida with his wife, Mary Virginia, for part of the spring. Ratliff has also been invited to do the
Cornelson Lecture here at Davidson in April. In the fall, he and his wife plan to travel out west for
a Pakistan reunion. He also plans to put more work into his garden, concentrate on various other hobbies, and do
a lot of reading. Ratliff and his wife have three grown children -- Alice Ann, Katherine Virginia, and John Charles.
In the spring of 1993, Ratliff will return to Davidson as a part-time teacher, or in his words, he’ll be
“back as a visitor.” He and his wife plan to continue living in Davidson. Beyond the next few years, Ratliff
has various opportunities such as going to Bangalore, India as a visiting professor, teaching and working at a Methodist College
being set up in Zimbabwe, or going to work for a bishop in Liberia who has been in contact with
him.

CCRL Continued from page 1

It is uncertain when President Kuykendall will take action on the resolution passed by the CCRL.

Student Government News

At the Student Government meeting on November 19, all students were invited to make suggestions for improvements to campus facilities
by means of the Campus Services and Facilities Committee envelope on the SGA bulletin board in Chambers. The senate approved
unanimously to grant the Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) a charter. Hamrick, as chairperson of the Charters and Bylaws Committee,
reported that her committee recommended this approval. The Activities Tax Council made presentations at both the November 19 and the
December 3 meetings. Carrington Mangum (chairperson) had three applications for the remaining student activities fee, not allocated to student organizations
this year. First, the women’s club lacrosse team applied for $1293.90 for start-up fees. The senate discussed whether or not
the women’s team ought to be provided with lacrosse sticks when the men’s team is not. Jennifer Humphrey (sophomore president)
stated the sticks would be kept in the equipment room for any student use and that any club team could
apply for specific ATC funding. The senate approved $1293.90 with five no-votes and one abstention.

DCTV applied for $25,523 from the ATC for an entire S-VHS system that would allow DCTV to improve and expand
broadcasting. The ATC approved $21,150 of the request and the senate voted, with two no-votes and four abstentions, to grant
DCTV this amount. At the December 3 meeting, the senate approved unanimously to grant Reach Out (YSSC) $780.18 to cover
some costs of the “Into the Streets” week, as well as a community dinner in the spring.

SGA President Cammie Covington reported on this week’s faculty meeting. The faculty agreed on a change to the Hunter-Hamilton Teaching
Award requiring half of the $10,000 be used to improve teaching at Davidson in the manner the recipient chooses. Also,
the faculty discussed briefly the tension on campus.

MONEY FOR COLLEGE

Every student is eligible for some type of financial aid regardless of grades or parental income.

Financial Aid Available Immediately!

Special grants program. Every student eligible. No one turned down. Simple application fee (refundable) to:

Student Services
P. O. Box 22-4026
Hollywood, FL 33022

CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.

LSAT * GMAT * GRE * MCAT

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.
