12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

Freshmen Players Could Contribute Immediately
McKillop

George Spain
Spain, 6’7" and 235 pounds, comes to Davidson from Spring Valley High School in Columbia, S.C., where he averaged 12 points per game on 68% shooting from the field last season. The left-handed Spain has an odd-looking shot that is nevertheless effective. His aggressive play inside should translate into plenty of time at both the center and power forward positions.

Team Outlook
Continued from page 11

The other contender for the strong forward spot is 6’8" junior J.D. Heuer. Weight work has made Heuer a bulky presence inside, but he is also gifted with shooting touch to twenty feet. His perimeter ability makes him an option at the 3 spot, though his lack of speed creates defensive matchup problems for Davidson there.

For the third straight year, the 7’0" Musch will start at the center position. Musch averaged 9.9 points per game in each of his first two years at Davidson and improved his game this summer playing on a German team that toured through Europe. His strength, hands, and shot-blocking have improved remarkably over the past two years and continued improvement should make him the class of the Big South at the center spot. If Musch can score consistently in the post, the Davidson guards and small forwards should reap the benefits with open jump shots.

The final piece to the team is freshman Franco Ferroni, of Rimini, Italy. The 6’7" Ferroni is rumored to be an offensive threat from every position but the point, but has not yet been allowed to practice with the team. The NCAA’s inquiry into a possible rules infraction involving Ferroni’s Italian club team has dragged on for several weeks, but it appears a ruling on his eligibility is imminent. McKillop says that “Franco could be the most versatile of our frontcourt players.” The addition of Ferroni would give the Wildcats additional depth and scoring punch from both the post and the perimeter.

This year’s Wildcats will feature an aggressive man-to-man defense that denies every pass. Against Cherry Point in the opener, that defense caused numerous turnovers which led to fast break baskets. Constant defensive harassment, combined with excellent conditioning, could make the difference for Davidson late in games. The ‘Cats motion offense, predicated on frequent screening, cutting, and ball reversal, demands constant switching by the defense and causes breakdowns that result in easy shots. Holloway and Narat, in addition to Zimmerman, must sink the open outside shots for the offense to be effective.

Last year’s freshman-laden team struggled to find its bearings early in the season and lost a number of close games. McKillop’s assessment that “the great thing about freshmen is that they become sophomores” is simplistic, but indicative of the greater maturity which the sophomores will bring into this year. The three returning sophomore starters, Narat, Holloway, and Zimmerman, should make better decisions in their second seasons, and Musch should be improved at center. Davidson is among the most talented teams in the Big South, rivaled only by Radford and Coastal Carolina. The Wildcats’ depth gives them a number of scoring threats at every position. Perhaps the key to the season, though, is what kind of contributions the team can get from the power forward spot. If McKillop can get consistent offensive production from Drobnitch, Spain, Heuer, or Horton, the Wildcats will be very difficult to stop.

The improved Wildcats should be able to outdistance depleted Radford and Coastal teams to finish first in the Big South. This year, Davidson’s final season in the Big South, provides an unrivaled opportunity for the Wildcats to return to the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1986. Davidson’s difficult schedule includes the home opener against Alabama and trips to Wake Forest, N.C. State, and South Carolina, and two games against cross-county rival UNCC. The ‘Cats should finish 16-11 (11-3 in the Big South) and represent the conference in the NCAA Tournament.

Franco Ferroni
Ferroni arrives at Davidson after a distinguished club career in Italy in which he led his team to five Italian Championships. He also played on the Italian Junior National Team that won the European Championship in 1990. Ferroni is a versatile player who can score from inside and outside and play four of the five positions.

Big South
Continued from page 11

In addition, Big South Rookie of the Year Joe Spinks (11.6 ppg) also returns. Spinks was the leading rebounder in the conference last year with 9.4 per game. The guard spots, however, are somewhat more of a question. Leading scorer Rod Gourdine (19.1 ppg) graduated, leaving sophomore Jamie Lee and junior Steve Martin to run the offense.

UNC-ASHEVILLE
The Bulldogs lost their two top scorers from last year’s 8-20 (4-10) team; center Brent Keck and guard Darryl Sanders.Combined for nearly 27 points and 10 rebounds per game last year. But they do return three starters, among them point guard Jeff Lippard (7.3 ppg and 6.3 apg), and could receive a boost from 6’5" forward Derek Borden. Borden sat out last year after transferring from Virginia Commonwealth. 7’2" junior center Scott Barnes, who hails from Perth, Scotland, could take Keck’s place in the pivot. He transferred from Brevard. The Bulldogs will be severely tested by an extremely difficult non-conference schedule. They travel to Syracuse, Florida State, and Clemson.

LIBERTY
The Flames return all five starters from last year’s 5-23 team, including team MVP Mike Coleman. Coleman, a 6’7" senior center, led the team in scoring and rebounding a year ago (15.8 ppg, 10.1 rpg). 6’10" sophomore Julius Nwosu, a Nigerian import who averaged 10.9 points and 6.8 rebounds last year, returns at forward. Sophomore Matthew Hildebrand, who averaged 4.9 assists at the point guard spot last year, returns, but could be spelled by junior Cordell Robinson, who transferred from Southern California for reasons unknown. A trio of sophomores, Chris Toomer, Brett Anthony, and Willie Roach, will fight for time at the 2-guard.

CHARLESTON SOUTHERN
The Buccaneers lost four starters from a team that struggled to stay out of the cellar last year, so the outlook is bleak. 6’7" senior forward Bernard Nelson is the only returning starter and one of just three lettermen who return from last season’s 4-10, 9-19 team. Nelson averaged 10.8 points and 6.5 rebounds a game in 1990-91. Juniors Willie Ellis (7.3 ppg) and Jason Romano (injured for most of last year) should handle the guard spots for the Bucs. Internationals Christian Wober, of Austria, and Falur Hardarson, of Iceland, are among seven freshmen who will be forced to contribute immediately.

WINTHROP
The Eagles struggled through an 8-20, 5-9 campaign last season, but the future seemed hopeful since all five starters were to return. A run at the conference title seemed realistic. But the loss of starting point guard LaShawn Coulter to grades and starting forward George Henson to eligibility problems makes such a possibility remote. Henson may be ruled eligible to play in January, and even a mediocre Winthrop season may hinge on his return. Sophomore guard Carlo Wilkins, junior forward Eddie Gay, and junior center Mark Hailey all return to reprise their starting roles, but the losses of Coulter and Henson will likely be too difficult to overcome. Freshman Mike Fayed might be given the point guard slot in Coulter’s absence.

Interview Continued from page 10
that they received from a number of fans who were at the game. I can be very clear in stating that I will be much more sensitive to that in the coming year.

Davidsonian: Which teams will vie for the Big South championship?
McKillop: Coastal Carolina because of their history of success, Radford because of their wealth of experience, and then I think all the rest of the teams in the conference present problems for us. The parity that exists in the conference is there between a number of teams. I would think that in almost every game in the conference this year there is not going to be a clear-cut pattern as to who’s going to win and who’s not going to win.

Davidsonian: How will the Big South’s automatic bid into the NCAA Tournament affect your program?
McKillop: Right away it’s a catalyst for realizing a dream that many of our players have had since they came to Davidson and since they dreamed about playing college basketball. The change of getting an immediate bid, the respect that connotates and the tangible nature of it have really spurred us on to work extremely hard in the preseason as we prepare for the actual first game. There’s a lot of excitement as we look to the season and we look to the conference. With this being our second year in the Big South Conference, some rivalries that have developed have created a sense of excitement that did not exist last year. Last year was kind of a hope that a lot of things had to work exactly right for us to get an NCAA bid. This year, it still is a dream, but it’s a much more realistic goal. It’s a dream that stands before us.

Davidsonian: What types of changes, if any, will you make with this year’s squad to prepare for next year’s entry into the Southern Conference?
McKillop: I don’t know that we can focus on next year while trying to play for this year. However, I’d be less than candid if I did not tell you that we will follow very closely their [Southern Conference teams’] scores and the success they have on recruiting trails. We will be trying to gather as much information as possible without intruding on our current focus as we prepare for next year as well.