12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With Ambassador Jack Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program for International Studies

By John Patton

Events in the Soviet Union are moving with astonishing speed. After 75 years of monolithic Communist rule, there is radical
change in the air. What does it mean? No one knows precisely, but Ambassador Jack Perry, director of the Dean
Rusk Program and a specialist in Soviet and East European affairs for the last forty years, offered his insights on
the coup and some of its possible ramifications.

Davidsonian: What are your observations about the coup?

Perry: Many people foresaw the coup. I always said that if it happens, it’s going to be done with great
brutality and it’s going to work, so when this coup happened, I didn’t have any doubt that it would work
because that is the way things go in the Soviet Union. Then I began to hear people like Dimitri Simes
say that it's not going to work, and I realized that they (the coup leaders) weren’t closing off television and
the army wasn’t really occupying anything except parts of Moscow. Finally, Yeltsin was making speeches, and they didn’t have the
sense to arrest him. I said, well, this isn’t the kind of coup we were talking about.

Davidsonian: One major question on everyone’s mind is what's going to happen now. What do you think the future holds
in store for the USSR?

Perry: Well, the future of the Union is the biggest single question now, and I have to believe that these
events have helped the forces that are trying to pull away from the center. They have helped the forces within
the loyalist group of republics, led by Yeltsin, because he was the great hero. No one is going to say
no to him when he says to the center that the republics must control the money and taxes and decide
how much to give the center. However, the six that did not want to sign the Union treaty, the Baltic
States, Georgia, Moldova, and possibly Armenia, have been helped by this in their striving for independence. The Baltic States, especially.
I think really mean it when they say ‘look, we want out.’ Even President Bush has finally said something in
support of that, and I believe there will be great pressure on Gorbachev to let them go and to form
a new, smaller Union.

Davidsonian: That brings up a good point - who now is in the position to make these kinds of decisions,
or maybe a better question, who’s in charge, Yeltsin or Gorbachev?

Perry: Clearly, Yeltsin got a big boost not only in Russia but all over the Soviet Union; in fact, he
is the popular hero. Gorbachev, on the other hand, is not a hero, and he was already terribly unpopular. I
heard George Kennan last night, and I thought he was very good when he said, ‘Gorbachev has done these profoundly
important things, but probably his moment in time is ending because there is not too much more he can accomplish.
Therefore, some other different people are going to have to come on the scene.’ I think Kennan is right, but
I don’t think that we will see Gorbachev just resign and fade away. Over the next several years, if the
Union does become a looser federation of sorts, the republics become more important, and if the Presidency in the USSR
moves towards a popularly elected one, we might well get someone besides Gorbachev. His day may be ending.

Davidsonian: Recent events have cast what appears to be some very dark shadows on the future of the Communist Party
of the Soviet Union (CPSU). Does Communism have any future in the USSR?

Perry: All the major leaders -- Yeltsin, Yakovlev, Shevardnadze, Nazarbaev, and now finally Gorbachev -- have quit the party. The
liberals clearly feel that the CPSU has had its day, and there’s also a lot of hatred over what the
Party has done to the people over the last 75 years. On the other hand, a lot of people don’t
feel that way. Probably a third of the population are sort of proud of the party and its history. They
may not be the most enlightened people in the Union, but you know they are people too, and I’m not
so sure they want to see the Party dissolved. In fact, I know that the apparatchiks and bureaucrats that have
their livelihood depend on the CPSU don’t want it to dissolve, and therefore I don’t think it will just fade
away. What the last few days' events have done is both dramatically weaken the Party as a powerful force and
sharpen the conflict between society and the Party, so the future of the party is much more in question than
it was.

Davidsonian: The future of the Party and the country as a whole is now more uncertain than ever. What can
the U.S. and the West in general do to help the forces of democracy in the USSR?

Perry: The proper American role is such a heartbreaking subject because...We are almost in a Presidential year, and what with
the deficits and the American recession, I don’t think we can expect President Bush to stand up and say that
we are going to give the Soviet Union a lot of aid. I don’t think he’ll say it and, frankly,
I don’t think the American people would support it. Let’s admit then that we probably aren’t going to do much
more in the physical sense for the Soviets than we’ve already done. But it also seems to me that the
President could be more forthcoming about aid to the Soviets and say we should do everything we can to help
these people: volunteering to help, encouraging corporations to invest, et cetera. We can no longer take the deep-pocket approach and
give a lot of aid—probably none, in fact—but we need to do more. We need to help morale because with
winter coming on it is going to be very difficult. We need to demonstrate more our willingness to support the
people of the Soviet Union.

Davidsonian: Keeping on the topic of international relations, last week there was a great deal of uncertainty surrounding the Middle
East Peace Conference. Will the new situation in the USSR have any effect on it?

Perry: The thing about the Middle East Peace Conference is that a lot of people have reasons for being reluctant
to go to it. Mr. Shamir, especially, has agreed to go, but I don’t think he’s leaping for joy about
it. I think there are a number of others who, while they have reasons to go, have reasons for not
going as well. Therefore, they were quick to jump on any excuse, which this coup happened to provide, to put
the conference off until next year. The fact is that the U.S. has been forcing the countries in the Middle
East to come to the table. We have invited the Soviets to be co-hosts because that’s the tradition in the
Middle East peace process system and for a while the USSR’s role was in question, but now that things are
back on track the dissenters in the Middle East will have to find new excuses to put the conference off.

Davidsonian: That brings up another question that directly affects the U.S. and that is what is the USSR’s role in
international affairs?

Perry: I think the coup provided some insights on their role in the international scene simply by looking at what
worried us the most. We started worrying about who had their hand on the nuclear trigger and whether any tension
would cause problems. The second was "what if these army types take over and they decide to get truculent again—what
might they do?” The key there was Eastern Europe because the East Europeans said ‘we’re nervous.’ They don’t have a
Warsaw Pact anymore that ties them to the USSR, but they also aren’t part of NATO so who would protect
them if the Soviets decided to put some troops into Czechoslovakia. Thirdly, the PLO and Saddam Hussein said ‘hey great,
now we’ve got a better government in there so somebody will support us’—I think the Soviets, with a bad government,
could really create some havoc in the Middle East and elsewhere. The question is, really, as I heard someone say
yesterday, will they be nice or mean but weaker? With Gorbachev, they’ve become almost de facto partners in international affairs,
and at times even allies, and I think their role is still clearly a large one as illustrated by our
fears last week. They still have a nuclear potential and a sixth of the world’s land mass, as well as
a historical place in the world which still includes a permanent seat on the UN Security Council. Their role is
to be one of the powers that helps determine the course of world events, and if they are governed by
people with good intentions who want something from the West, then we hope they will play a positive role on
the international scene.

Davidsonian: There have been some incredible things happening, as we all know, in the USSR. What are your feelings about
the situation today—what makes it so amazing?

Perry: As an old Soviet watcher, I started studying Russian in 1951 when Stalin was still alive, and I saw
him lying next to Lenin in the Mausoleum in 1959. I just remember the ‘bad’ old days so vividly that
Stalinism to me, since I’m 61, is not a historical phenomenon—I watched it and grew up with it. Life was
so unbearably bad that it’s hard to talk about it without weeping. These people that tried to take over wanted
to go back to something like the old days—maybe I’m being a little hard on them but they clearly wanted
to turn back the clock. What is absolutely exhilarating is to see the Russians get out on the streets and
turn these people back, rally around Yeltsin, and stand up to the tanks; to see the Russian love for freedom
which is a Russian love as much as it is anyone's triumph is just amazing.
