THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

Freshman Odyssey Still Successful, in Spite of Weather
By Amy Bertram

The Odyssey. An epic adventure in every sense of the word. Six years ago, Ed Daugherty, then president of the
Davidson Outing Club, came up with the idea of a program for incoming freshmen. The experience was termed “Pre-O,” for
pre-orientation. Daugherty had and still has ties with the Nantahala Outdoor Center since he is an instructor for the company.
With his connections, he was able to set up a backpacking/whitewater trip as a wilderness orientation into Davidson.

The first year, 1985, 13 freshmen composed the trip which today has become the Odyssey. Since 1988, the trip has
had about 50 freshmen each year. “The program became so popular that the demand skyrocketed,” Davidson Outdoor Center coordinator Greg
Sheppard said. Since last semester, Sheppard worked with the trip leaders for DOC and on his own to organize the
1991 Odyssey. He decided to divide the freshmen into five “crews” each with three to four student and faculty leaders.
Three crews hiked on to three days canoeing and funyaking the French Broad River. Meanwhile, the other two crews hiked
on the Chattooga River Trails and rafted on the Nantahala and Chattooga (Section IV) Rivers. Future Odyssey trips may break
from the tradition of whitewater and backpacking to include rock climbing and mountain biking.

India Continued from page 10.

and have visited several times before and will get to spend time with my relatives again during this trip. Katherine
White, ’92: My godmother has been a missionary in Madras and Nepal, so I’ve heard about India all my life;
I’ve grown up hearing about the culture, music, and the people.

Davidsonian: What expectations do you have of this semester and of India?

Sanders: Well I don’t know, but one reason I was interested in going to India is because the culture there
is just so different from our own, more so probably than any other culture. As far as what sort of
culture shock I’m expecting or how I’m going to fit in... I’m hoping there won’t be too many problems. I’m
sure that some of the simple things we take for granted here like toilet paper, will be a sort of
shock, even the mere fact that the food will be really spicy. The conditions in India may not be as
sanitary as they are here in the U.S., but I think that that’s kind of healthy for people to experience
that because that’s the way life is. I feel that sometimes here in the U.S. our lives are too sanitized.
India is a country of so many extremes and so many contradictions, and this is mainly why I’m interested in
it.

McMillan, ’94: I’m not real sure what to expect. If you’d asked me six months ago: Are you planning on
going to India next semester? Are you going anywhere your sophomore year? I would have said no, I would have
thought you were crazy, but Dr. Thomas asked if Robert and I would go because we had both been in
a couple of his classes. At that time, Dr. Thomas needed some people to go and we were the most
likely candidates, so I thought about it and decided it was a great chance while I’m still having my “youth”.
I’ve never been off the Atlantic coast and have only been as far North as Virginia, so it should be
an experience.

Davidsonian: Do you feel like you’ve learned anything during the past two weeks of lectures?

Sanders: One interesting thing is that the college is Madras Christian College and it was founded by Presbyterians in 1837,
the same year that Davidson was founded. So, they’re very similar schools just in totally different settings.

Phillips: Sometimes I’ve felt like

Despite the high-quality activities done on the Odyssey, the highlights for the trips did not come from the places the
groups went, but in the experiences-- sometimes under extenuating and stressful situations-- and in the friends made in the process
of surviving a week with strangers in unfamiliar territory. The first and most prominent hardship this year was the abundance
of rain. However, the rain turned out to be only a taste of things to come.

Even through hiking and paddling in the rain, cooking all their meals on small gas stoves, not showering twice a
day-- or even every two days, and sleeping on the ground night after night, the Odysseians found out that these
things can make for the most memorable times; if not the most exciting. As Tyler Nichols put it, “Wet, wetter,
wettest... but fun!”

More opinions of the Odyssey include:

“It was a groovy experience for all involved and it gave me the opportunity to bond with my fellow freshmen
in nature. In one word, granola.” - Geoffrey McAllen.

“I thought that it was a character-building experience for sure because the situations we were in allowed us to make
at first decisions on our own. But then as we became closer, the decisions were more for the group-- more
in unison.” - Allison Greenlee.

“It was so wild that in only 24 to 48 hours you can be your most absurd with people you
didn’t know two days before.” - Niki Richardson.

“The whole Chattooga experience was so cool-- jumping off cliffs, body surfing chains, the waterfall!” - Susan Fischer.

“I never would have done some of the things I did if I didn’t feel comfortable and self-confident. We were
awesome!” - Sarah Orsbon.

Trip leader Leigh Hamrick said that Odyssey was “an excellent way to start off school because I got to enjoy
being with my peers without the pressures and stress of school. It was great to have the chance to get
to know people in a different environment from Davidson. As a trip leader I had the opportunity to get to
know freshmen as friends, not just as the incoming class.”

Last year the Odyssey was not only a great start to my freshman year, but I met and became great
friends with my current roommate. As a trip leader this year, I had all the benefits of forming new friendships
not only with freshmen, but with the other trip leaders, too.

Last Tuesday night, the trip leaders met for the first organizational meeting since the Odyssey. As we discussed the Odyssey
and upcoming trips,Senior trip leader Jim Weaver asked Sheppard if the feedback from the Odyssey had been good. Sheppard exclaimed
in his characteristically enthusiastic manner, “Yeah—oh yeah! It has been really positive. We’ve just been in Davidson waiting to leave.
During the first week, we had practically nothing to do, and some of the speakers went over things we already
knew, but then we did have some like Dr. Ratliff and his economics lecture which contained some things I wasn’t
aware of.”

Jane Mount, ’93: “Yeah, all these people have been giving us these warning talks on ‘adjusting to India’ and what
we’re going to have to deal with. I’ve learned all kinds of things like never touch anyone with my left
hand, don’t show anyone the soles of my feet, and there are no bathrooms... so it’ll be fun to have
diarrhea for four months.”

Davidsonian: “What preparations have you made for the trip?”

Sanders: “Oh gosh, I’ve had so many inoculations, even today (August 29th) I’ve had shots for hepatitis, shots for typhoid.
I took everything that was recommended—the sort of better safe than sorry attitude. After the first typhoid shot, I was
really feverish. It was kind of strange, I mean here I was experiencing typhoid for twenty-four hours, but I knew
that it was going to be over so it made it a lot easier to get through the sickness.”

Gupta: “Preparations?... Probably going through three times the amount of lectures on cultural differences from my parents, all of my
friends and relatives, and then the lectures here that everybody else got.”

Davidsonian: “Are you at all nervous?”

Sanders: “Right now just the whole fact that I’m going to be in India and across the world hasn’t really
sunk in yet. And the fact that we’re flying Lufthansa probably means it won’t sink in until we get to
India.”

McMillan: “Yes. Anxious? Very.”

McGarrah: “Well, I didn’t think I was nervous until I woke up with a migraine headache this morning, so I
guess I am more nervous than I thought.”

Chappell Wescoat, ’93: “I don’t want to wait around because it’s getting scarier and scarier... because it’s a totally different
way of doing things—like getting diarrhea.”

The students weren’t the only ones who had comments about their semester; their parents seemed to be just as nervous
and excited:

Davidsonian: “How do you feel about your daughter going so far away?”

Jeff Lee, father of Erin Lee ’93: “We’re in a state of shock at this point. She’ll travel more in
one semester than we’ve traveled in a lifetime. We’re excited for her—I’m really glad she’s got a chance to go.”

Davidsonian: “What was your initial reaction to Erin telling you, ‘Dad, I’m going to India.’”

Lee: “The initial reaction was INDIA? Usually, you hear of kids going for a junior semester or a junior year
in France or someplace in Europe—not India. No, my daughter had to go to India. I’m proud that she’s willing
to do it.”

Davidsonian: “From a parental viewpoint, what are your opinions about the program?”

Lee: “I have really been impressed. It sounds like it is well coordinated, that they’ve done all their homework, and
they have given us all the information we need. It looks like everything is well worked out.”

Davidsonian: “Will you miss quick communication with your daughter?”

Lee: “My sister lives in Africa so we’re very used to slow communication. In fact, Erin is flying down to
Botswana to visit her aunt for two weeks.”

---

Sexuality & Health

The issue of sexual health is an important, and often much ignored, aspect of college life. For many, college is
a time of great experimentation and exploration in the realm of our sexuality. Therefore, knowledge of sexual health is of
primary consequence. One aspect of sexual health with which most everyone needs to become familiar is the genital self-examination (GSE).
The GSE is something everyone should know how to do, as it can help you discover if you have any
signs or symptoms of a sexually transmitted disease (STD). Of course, it is impossible to make a complete diagnosis on
your own; it is necessary to see a physician for a proper diagnosis. However, the GSE will help you determine
whether you should seek a physician’s counsel and should be used between check-ups to facilitate early detection.

For Men: Examining the entire genital area (pay close attention to the underside of the penis, which is hard to
see and often gets overlooked), look carefully for any sores, bumps, or blisters on the skin. Also look for warts,
which look like warts you may have seen on other parts of your body and may be hard to see
with the naked eye. The bumps and blisters may either be red or light-colored and may be more easily detected
by touch than by sight. Some other signs of sexually transmitted diseases are burning or pain during urination and discharge
from the penis. If you find any of the above signs, or suspect you may have come in contact with
someone who has an STD, it is important to see a physician and get a check-up. Some symptoms are hard
to recognize or are very mild, so it’s also a good idea to visit a physician regularly.

For Women: It is a bit more difficult for women to give themselves a genital exam, but using a mirror
will help you to see what you’re doing. You will be looking for the same signs and symptoms as men—bumps,
sores or blisters, and warts—as well as any sign of rash. Carefully check all areas of the outer genitals, being
especially attentive to those areas which are covered by the outer folds of skin, the labia. For women, examination by
touch can be much more effective, as it is often very difficult to see these areas. If you discover any
signs of bumps or sores, see your physician and ask specifically to have an STD test. Also be aware of
unusual—in color or odor—vaginal discharge, burning or pain in urination, pain in the pelvic area, bleeding between menstrual periods, or
itchiness. It is very important for women, especially those who are sexually active, to have a regular gynecological exam (usually
once a year). For more information on GSE or sexually transmitted diseases, talk to your physician or make a trip
to Student Health Services. See "Sex" on page 12.
