THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991 7

Davidson Arts

Unique Davidson Theater Course Culminates "At The Balagan"

By Rick Figlio
Courtesy of College Relations

Davidson College will be the site of a highly provocative experiment in theater next week. “At The Balagan: Personal Accounts”
promises to be a unique and extraordinary theatrical experience, introducing the Davidson community to the world of the “Theater of
Cruelty.”

Presented by visiting professor Rafael Lopez-Barrantes and his “Language, Voice, and Drama” class, the four performances Wednesday through Saturday nights,
Nov. 20-23, at 8 p.m. will be interwoven selections of ensemble and individual work. The nine students in the course
have been working with Lopez-Barrantes during class periods since the beginning of the semester to prepare for the performance. Shows
will be in the Workshop Theatre of Hodson Hall and admission is $3.

Lopez-Barrantes and his class want to make it clear that “At the Balagan” strays greatly from conventional forms of theatre.
This performance refutes the standard Stanislavski-style character, plot, and theme production and instead follows the metaphysical path proposed by the
proponents of the Theater of Cruelty, Antoine Artaud and Peter Brooks. Davidson senior Jim Leesch, an actor in the play,
says, “Barrantes forced us to take everything we felt comfortable with (in theatre) and immediately chuck it out the window.”

The structure of the presentation includes solo appearances by all nine students, each a few minutes long. Their solos display
unusual training in movement and vocal techniques. The source of each performer’s motion and gesture is a personal “physical vocabulary,”
of which each “word” is a “photogram” - a body movement based on an emotional response to a particular memory,
key word, picture or piece of music.

The actual texts are chosen by the performers themselves to convey a personal message to the audience. As such, they
represent a diverse base of thought, including the words of Goethe, Jose Marti, T.S. Eliot, Marvin Gaye, and the neo-pop
band Camper Van Beethoven. There are also several choreographed appearances by the entire ensemble involving both comic and eerie combinations
of dance, rhythms, and vocals.

The diversity of sound the performers employ, from whispers to screams to choral song, is important to the vitality of
the performance. The group explored and incorporated various regions and qualities of sound associated with each performer, an integral facet
of Lopez-Barrantes’ progressive style. Leesch commented, “The result is something more than vital. It has four thousand times the energy
of anything you’ll ever see.”

Although the actual dialogue of the performance will be in Spanish, German, and French as well as English, Lopez-Barrantes does
not think this will present a problem for an anglocentric audience. He said, “The presentation is sort of a didactic
activity, but it is addressed not so much to the intellect as to the stream of consciousness, the emotional intellect.”

See "Balagan" on page 8

Foster Makes A Mediocre Debut With Little Man Tate

By Will Montgomery

A few weeks ago Time Magazine devoted the cover story to Jodie Foster, highlighting the maturation of Hollywood’s longtime star
child (Taxi Driver). Foster’s recent performance in Silence of the Lambs as a tough but sexy FBI investigator seemed to
herald the arrival of a new presence in American cinema. Foster’s first step behind the camera as director of Little
Man Tate, unfortunately falls short of these expectations.

The basic problem is a bogus storyline. Foster acts in the movie as well, playing the mother of a child
prodigy. The director of a private institute for the gifted, also a woman, finds out about her son. Much of
the dramatic energy ofThe movie revolves around the tension between Tate’s natural mother, the crass, street-smart, and poor Foster, with
Tate’s surrogate mother/mentor, the hyper-organized, anal-retentive, upper-class, cultured “intellectual.” There is a wealth of subject matter in the Landed Gentry
Reaganite meets Single Mother on Welfare story, but unfortunately, this potential critique of class conflict falls flat through obvious overstatement
and bad acting on Foster’s part. Her fake New Jersey accent is horrendous. In some areas, the movie is successful,
especially in its treatment of the pressure exerted on children to grow up fast and to perform. In one excellent
scene, the director of the institute for gifted children and her nerdy sidekick review slides of potential students in a
dark, secretive room. The scene subtly parodies the college application process, or even sports recruitment. “Jimmy. Age 8. Speaks five
languages, concert-level pianist. Susan. Age 9. Second volume of feminist poetry just published.”

See "Tate” on page 8

The Pixies Trompe Le Monde: Therapy for Stressed Students
By Josh Larned

On Saturday afternoon, I was sitting in my room sadly contemplating the immense load of work that I have before
Christmas (as I’m sure you all do as well). My worries were instantly alleviated, however, when I popped in the
new Pixies CD and listened to it for the first time. Ethereal yet noisy, Trompe Le Monde demonstrates that the
band still has that knack for originality which was somewhat doubtful after their last release. What makes them so continually
appealing is the fact that they are virtually impossible to classify. On this record, for example, singer Black Francis alternates
between soft vocals and cacophonous shrieks. Likewise, guitarist Joey Santiago plays in a style melodious at one instant, full of
grinding, feedback-riddled riffs at another. If not for Kim Deal’s...

See "Pixies" on page 8

Oh, To Be Famous!
By Matt Bumstead

I was standing backstage at the Opry last year with some friends when we saw a strong new artist named
Alan Jackson approaching. Having worked for a record company, I had come to learn how easy it is to talk
with the singers. I boasted to my friends that I could walk right over to him, call him by name,
and talk to him. As I started over, I saw mobs of people around him, and many others pointing at
him, as if he were part of a sideshow. I stopped and thought, “What right do I have to call
him Alan? I haven’t earned his trust or respect. Is it fair of me to manipulate him, to use his
stardom to make myself feel good and important? Is he not just another man?” Needless to say, I left the
guy alone. So I was one out of thousands.

I once asked Mary-Chapin Carpenter (who is a friend, so I can ask her this) if stardom had...
