THE DAVIDSONIAN _OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

Should Davidson Reject National Review's Guide?

Dean Williams Takes Narrow Perspective
Administration Should Abhor Association With Guide

A slight chuckle accompanied my first glance at the February 6 article in the Charlotte Observer about Davidson’s appearance in the National Review’s College Guide. A thorough reading, however, provoked a more passionate response. The criterion used in this “study” exemplified the kind of closed-mindedness and hostility to differences that a college education is supposed to overcome.

Davidson should be proud of these qualities, not feel a need to defend them. The only way our society can overcome the status quo, a condition of continued prejudice, ignorance, and egocentricity, is by the kind of education and openness that diversity and Leadership South promote. Courses on Women and Literature or Afro-American Relations are not as hostile to higher education as the National Review would have you believe. In fact, these kinds of subjects foster appreciation for the unjust barriers many in our society have had to struggle with and still must confront. Supporters of the National Review’s kind of conservatism also try to make the connection that taking such courses compromises one’s appreciation for his or her own heritage. Making such a relation is ridiculous. If someone is black he or she should be proud. Likewise, if someone is white, they should be proud. What diversity of student body and courses attempts to instill is that we are all human beings, that we should embrace and be proud together.

As representative for a supposedly progressive institution, Dean Williams and all associated with Davidson College must abhor such adherence to the status quo. This college feels a need to skirt the issue as much as possible, considering the number of supporters of the college that probably subscribe to the National Review’s opinions. However, if Davidson wants to progress and attract a national student body, as the administration has said, then the school must reject the distinction bestowed on it more forcefully. The National Review’s Guide criticizes Davidson’s “subtle, but growing emphasis on ‘diversity’” and its membership in Leadership South, designed to increase opportunities for blacks in higher education.

Davidson, her students, faculty, and administration, should be more than “uneasy” about its inclusion in the National Review’s College Guide. Dean Williams, since you were chosen as spokesman to the public on this issue, you must do more than say Davidson “regret[s]” the standards of the National Review and its backward conservatism. As representative for a supposedly progressive institution, you, and all associated with Davidson College, must abhor such adherence to the status quo.

Iraqis Should Try To Understand Our World View
By Warren Cooksey '92

In spite of your requests for student contributions, I have been proud of myself for resisting the temptation to write. I’ve been too busy to open cans of worms in the Davidsonian. Unfortunately for me, the last issue contained two (yes, two) topics crying out for responses, so I gave in.

To begin with, I would like to thank Sara Carlson for mentioning the North Carolina Student Legislature (NCSL) in her column. As a founding member of the current Davidson Delegation who has been trying to build membership since 1989, I appreciate any publicity which might increase participation. However, I think I ought to correct the blanket assumption that the NCSL is “socially conscious” in the same manner as Amnesty International and the other groups she mentioned. Although the NCSL’s 54 years have created something of a progressive history, we are a rather diverse bunch. On the one hand, in September we went on record as supporting significantly increased federally-mandated Corporate Average Fuel Economy Standards, and we also called for research in the U.S. of RU-486, the so-called...

Continued on Page 8

Davidson is Uneasy With This Distinction: It’s Listed in Conservatives’ College Guide

Davidson College is the only N.C. college included in William F. Buckley Jr.’s new conservative’s guide to America’s 50 best liberal arts schools, but some people at Davidson aren't applauding. “You feel you have to explain it—why you're on the list,” says Robert Williams, Davidson’s vice president for academic affairs... “we regret that (the) National Review views women on the faculty, research by professors and diversity in the student body as signs of decay and decline, rather than...

Dr. Williams addresses the subject of “research” to which the Review replies: “As it moves into the national spotlight, some college administrators and faculty members have been pushing for a greater emphasis on published ‘research’ as a qualification for hiring and promoting professors.” Although “they deny that this will come at the expense of Davidson’s historic emphasis on teaching... Some senior professors, who are among the school’s most distinguished, go so far as to say they doubt they would be awarded tenure at Davidson today because of the shift to...than progress and opportunity. It’s a political tract.” — Charlotte Observer, February 6, 1991

Not quite, Dr. Williams. Once again, the calm and reasoned columnists (that’s us) at the “South’s Foremost College Weekly,” are pleased to be able to present to you, the students of Davidson College, that rarity of expression we like to call “the Truth.”

Rare indeed is the college administrator whose opinion of the National Review is any higher than the crown of Mike Dukakis’ head. Is this, then, the reason Dr. Williams takes so dim a view of NR’s College Guide? It certainly didn’t suggest (erroneously) that diversity among the faculty is decay. We spoke with Brad Miner, literary editor for the National Review, and he reiterated the criteria upon which NR based its guide (not a ranking). 

“Above all, we looked for schools that, overall, achieve academic excellence:
1. by the quality and availability of the faculty;
2. by the quality of the curriculum that respects the tradition of the West; and
3. by the quality of the intellectual environment—the entire university community.”

Doesn’t seem unreasonable yet. In fact, Davidson was judged to provide an excellent academic base: “At Davidson, the focus of the institution remains on the classroom, and the quality of teaching is outstanding.”

As a corollary to Davidson’s hiring practice, the Review notes Davidson’s “boasts that three of the eight professors hired for the 1990-91 year are African-American.” The Review goes on to suggest that “Given the paucity of minority candidates and the intense competition among elite universities for politically correct and credentialed black candidates, we can only wonder to what extent Davidson may be willing to sacrifice academic quality for diversity.” Perhaps this is the reference Dr. Williams alludes to in his assertion that the Review sees female faculty members as decay; we can find no other reference.

Finally, when Dr. Williams mentions Cay, he seems to come from the article in question.

Rare indeed is the college administrator whose opinion of the National Review is any higher than the crown of Mike Dukakis’ head. The variance they address is the presence of a cultural diversity requirement in the classroom, and the quality of teaching is outstanding. 

What troubled the National Review, and in turn troubled Dr. Williams, has more to do with our successes than with our failures. “Davidson now appears to be moving into the ranks of the nation’s elite liberal arts colleges.” Unfortunately, therein lies our peril. “Professor Donald Kagan, dean of Yale College, recently remarked that, although he favors the core-curriculum idea, he will not press to see a program of requirements return to Yale. Imagine, he says, what kind of core requirements the left-wing faculty and administration would inflict upon Yale’s students.”

Thus, Davidson’s announcement of a new concentration in “ethnic studies” seems like the harbinger for our own initiation into the exclusive club of liberal arts colleges that deconstructed themselves out of business. Academic politicization—feminist, minority, ethnic, and gay studies are all accepted curricula at other schools once dedicated to the liberal arts, the core curricula, and the college’s participation in the “Leadership South Consortium for Campus Diversity.” Although some schools use their diversity requirement as a home for “overtly politicized courses,” all of the courses we looked at were legitimate and appear to be well within Davidson’s liberal arts tradition.

As for the Leadership Consortium, the Review cites it only as a drift towards “multiculturalism, that has been responsible for so much of the inanity and dislocation elsewhere.” Student body diversity is not, as Dr. Williams suggests, the Review’s concern; instead, the inanity the Review fears is that of a multicultural curricula with the effect that a liberal arts education becomes impossible.

Robert Maynard Hutchins wrote that “the liberally educated man understands, by understanding the distinctions and interrelations of the basic fields of subject matter, the differences and connections be—”

Continued on Page 8