6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

Time For A Change: Let's Boot President Bush

In a matter of days, our Commander-in-Chief will, with an almost pathetic irony, likely celebrate the anniversary of Dr. Martin
Luther King’s birth by sending thousands of American troops to die and kill for the sake of proving a point
in the Middle East. Exactly what that point is... well, we’re still waiting for a decision about that from the
White House, and should have it only a few short years after the funerals.

We once heard that the point had something to do with America’s unwillingness to stand idly by in the face
of “naked aggression”. (Nakedness, in any context, being an enemy of most Republicans.) Our finest Presidential Propagandists told Mr. Bush
to call Saddam Hussein another Hitler, and he did. He told us how the United States would defend the sovereignty
of Kuwait against the hostilities of a mad dictator. He told us that the conflict isn’t about oil.

The campaign, having been over for two whole years, you would think the President wouldn’t shroud his statements in that
chest-pounding, bar-room rhetoric so riddled with lies anymore. Anyone who has had even a fourth-grade education knows that it has
never been a tenet of United States foreign policy to restore deposed monarchs to their thrones. (According to Bush, it
seems the Declaration of Independence was actually just a little joke meant to describe the overwhelming validity of the divine
right theory.) It took us over two years and an air raid before we acted forcefully against the aggression of
the Axis Powers in World War II, (aggression so buck naked it makes the Iraqi action look dressed to the
nines).

Our President has also told us that we must stop, by whatever means, Saddam Hussein’s military and nuclear build-up. In
a recent open letter addressed to college students, the President writes that there are certain things for which we must
fight, and these include the destruction of Hussein’s nuclear arsenal. The President claimed that with each passing day, Iraq becomes
a stronger and more dangerous military power. Well, quite frankly, how could Iraq not develop into such a powerful enemy?
After the millions of dollars worth of United States aid and weapons he received during the course of the Iran-Iraq
war, of course Saddam Hussein has an extraordinarily strong military. No thinking adult would give matches to a child with
a penchant for flame, yet our President gave weapons to a dictator of a violent and hostile bent. Go figure.

Under the administration of former President Reagan and then Vice-President Bush, the capabilities of the Iraqi military grew exponentially as
a result of American support. Thus, our President is trying to convince college students that they should support his policy
of sending people into a war which is actually an attempt to clean up a foreign policy debacle.

Also worthy of note is our President’s citation of Amnesty International’s report regarding the human rights atrocities committed by the
Iraqi government. The President claims that our military presence is necessary to defend the inalienable human rights of the Kuwaiti
people. Bush even told the nation that he and his wife had trouble finishing the report because it included such
a graphic description of torture. I, for one, find it strange that AI’s reports documenting similar events in, say, Israel
or maybe Beijing, have never provoked such a response. Mr. Bush is as genuinely concerned about human rights as he
is about menstruation. Let’s face it, President Bush is about to lead the country to war for the sake of
cheap gasoline, and ... how could Iraq not develop into such a powerful enemy? After the millions of dollars of
United States aid and weapons he received...

American's Apathy Allows Government's Transgressions

It seems that the American people have convinced themselves of the inevitability of war with Iraq. Military action is now
supported by the majority in this country on the basis that Saddam Hussein is an ominous threat to the emerging
world peace, not to mention to the financial foundation of the industrial world. But does no one feel a compulsion
to jump off the bandwagon of American self-righteousness in an attempt to gain a clearer perspective of the situation?

Bob Hornsby

It has been the practice of the people of the United States always to advance their rights and liberties at
the expense of those around them. The sordid tale of the near genocide of the Native American, so easily forgotten
by so many of us, is but one example of the shameful attitude we as a nation have taken towards
the rights of those outside our fold. In just two hundred years we have destroyed much of the land and
wildlife with which the Indians for untold centuries had a mutually beneficial exchange, and we have all but disposed of
the remaining traces of Native American culture. Even now, the people of the United States have over the years become
content to elect to office individuals who can be relied upon to be evil, selfish, loathsome so-and-so's for them.

The war on the advance of communism has long been the underlying motivation for U.S. meddling in Central American politics.
However, as Jay Wiley has stated, “No one gives a rat’s ass if you’re a communist anymore.” As this so-called
threat quickly fades, it becomes clear that the underlying motivation for U.S. meddling in Central American politics is and has
been the advancement of American economic interests. Even more disheartening is the fact that our interests have been advanced at
the great expense of the common people.the reservations which we have “given” these people are in grave danger of being
reduced in size. Does this mean that the American people are all evil, selfish, loathsome so-and-so’s? I think not. I
believe that it implies something much more terrifying: that the people of the United States have over the years become
content to elect to office individuals who can be relied upon to be evil, because they are absolutely unwilling to
compromise in their demands. According to the President, the United States does not associate with terrorists (except those in the
Syrian government) and therefore refuses to negotiate for peace. Saving face and looking tough, a top priority of Mr. Bush
since time immemorial, will now demand a bloody human sacrifice. Mr. Bush has chosen to bully the Iraqis into submission.
He has snarled and growled like a schoolyard punk. And, in a display of his “command of dirt cheap, low
rent, knee jerk epithets” (you know, the kind which provoke the oft-repeated cries of “Yeeeeeha!” and “Hell Yeah!” from the
Schlitz-swilling, wife-beating, B.J. & The Bear-watching masses), the President of the United States actually said, on national television, that our
military would “kick his [Hussein’s] ass” in the event of war. Such statements just ooze with the administration’s commitment to
peace. In my denouncement of the President’s policy of refusing negotiation, I am by no means supporting Iraqi activity in
Kuwait. Instead, I am pleading for a peaceful solution to the crisis. Any leader who will not exhaust every single
alternative to war is not fit to be in charge of a military force. I am reminded of Henry James,
who once wrote that “one has to be a lowbrow, a bit of a murderer, to be a politician, ready
and willing to see people sacrificed, slaughtered, for the sake of an idea, whether a good one or a bad
one.” I am dragging on longer than I thought with this article, and so I’ll try to wrap up. Reagan’s
greatest hypocritical lie was that his campaign platform was based upon the family, Christian values, and hard work, while he
was, in truth, the only president to have been divorced, he didn’t attend worship services, and took more vacation time
than any president in history. Mr. Bush’s hypocrisy in promising a continued era of peace and prosperity while delivering war
and recession is a bit more threatening. (You know something is awry when I’m saying that Reagan wasn’t so bad!)
Please understand that I’m not writing like this because I am unpatriotic, nor do I bash the establishment simply for
the sake of doing so. When I tell people that I think Bush should be impeached, it’s because I love
this country and I don’t want to see us engaged in a war. We really should, in the interests of
peace, impeach Mr. Bush. Then, you see, we’d be leaving the whole thing up to Quayle, whose father can have
us out of this mess with a few phone calls.

Feminism Reexamined
By Stephen Hill '94

There’s been a bloody, ongoing battle here in The Davidsonian over the feminist movement. But I think there is one
aspect that many of us have overlooked. I, for one, would like to take a second look at the feminist
movement, not in terms of its issues, but in terms of its overall direction. To do so we need to
ask two questions: 1) What are the goals of the feminist movement and, 2) How does the current feminist approach
plan to secure these goals? I think the ultimate goal of feminism is that of equality. No more chauvinistic subversion
of women. No more 69 cents to the man’s dollar, right? Few would scoff at the movement’s noble ambitions. After
all, no one is really against equality; it’s what our nation was founded on. Yet, there is something decidedly wrong
with the feminist movement. Evidently, the problem lies not in the movement’s goals, but in the ways feminists are attacking
the problem.

In order to achieve societal and financial success, the current feminist ideology urges women to divorce themselves from traditional feminine
qualities. By embracing more masculine qualities (aggression, dominance, etc.) many women have found themselves propelled along the corporate ladder. But
at the same time, they are losing a vital part of themselves. And that is the kicker—the current feminist approach
actually hurts the women it claims to be helping. No matter how you look at it, this repression of the
self is terribly unhealthy. After all, being feminine is not inferior to being masculine. But in rejecting their femininity, feminists
appear to accept the assertion that men are, in fact, superior to women.

Personally, I don’t have the vision to say exactly what new course the feminist movement should take. But I can
see that women won’t achieve the equality they seek simply by becoming men. If we are to accomplish anything, women
must embrace that which makes them feminine. Then they must prove to society the value of these feminine qualities.
