THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

Letters (cont.)

Abroad Office Working For Student Safety

To the Editor:

I found it discouraging that the Davidsonian should use the article from the College Press Service, “Students Abroad Could Become Terrorist Targets,” without investigating the ways in which the Office for Study Abroad has been dealing with the responsibility of student security abroad. Indeed, the alarmist tone of the headline, followed by the last sentence, “Davidson’s study abroad programs are continuing as scheduled,” might lead your readers to think that the Office of Study Abroad, the Resident Directors abroad, and the administration in general are either unaware of dangers abroad or don’t seem to care much about student security.

On the contrary, I have been on the phone a great deal with our directors in France, Germany, Spain, and Italy, and have sent copies of faxes from the directors in Madrid and Rome to parents, to allow them to have first-hand reports from abroad. All of our directors are in contact with the American Embassies in the host country, and the Office of Study Abroad receives security reports from the CIEE and NAFSA concerning the status of programs abroad, travel advisories from the State Department, and notifications of programs that have been cancelled. We also are in touch with some of the major study abroad programs such as those of Beaver College and Butler University, who have several hundred American students studying abroad, primarily in the U.K.

To date, very few colleges and universities have cancelled programs abroad, and those were primarily in Israel and the Middle East. Both President Kuykendall and Dean Williams are informed immediately of developments abroad. Ambassador Jack Perry of the Dean Rusk Program has also been in contact with former colleagues in the State Department and has replied to inquiries from concerned parents. I can assure you that the College does not take lightly the responsibility for the security of our students in Europe. Your sensationalist headline and your failure to examine the depth of the College’s commitment to student safety abroad were a disservice to all those here at Davidson who are extremely concerned for our students abroad, yet who have made a decision in good faith to continue our programs as scheduled, not from an ignorance of the situation or lack of concern for participants, but because we feel, after much deliberation, that our course is the most appropriate at this time.

Sincerely,
Homer B. Sutton
Coordinator, Study Abroad & Associate Professor, French
February 6, 1991

Wood Responds to "Rude" Notes

Dear Mr. Thompson:

Once again you have deemed it necessary to put pen to paper and inform us of another one of Davidson’s dilemmas. Contrary to your assessment, lack of school spirit is a serious and preeminent problem at Davidson. As stated in your article, “Not all of you are children of alumnae; you should be able to understand the situation.” Well, I am not the child of an alumnae, but I do not understand just where you are coming from.

Throughout my sometimes difficult college career, I have come to appreciate all aspects of Davidson: academic, social, and athletic. Also, as a four-year football player, I have experienced first-hand this lack of school spirit or, even worse, negative school spirit. You seem to regard the “wholesome expression of college pep” as totally obnoxious. As a Davidson athlete, I could not disagree with this more. Ask any senior, junior, or sophomore member of the football team what one of the biggest differences between this season and past seasons was and he will tell you it was increased fan support. I have seen both ends of the spectrum. I can remember playing Wofford College in front of 200 less-than-screaming onlookers and wishing I had gone to Holy Cross College, a fine school where I could play in front of enthusiastic fans.

I had only hoped for the continued resurgence of fan support for the football team as well as the other athletic teams at Davidson, but for you to subvert the exemplary work done by Terry Holland, Dave Fagg, Charlie Slagle, Bob McKillop, Rebecca Hawkins, and all the other Davidson coaches by writing such an obnoxious and undermining piece of so-called “journalism” is totally reprehensible. To recap, in your article you extol the virtues of drunkenness and apathy. Coupled with previous articles on laziness and unhealthy behavior, I think you are shaping up to be a fine role model for all college students.

I also object to your using the football team’s recent success as a basis for your argument. If you have trouble enthusing yourself when the basketball team plays Duke and Virginia, why don’t you keep those feelings to yourself rather than trying to ruin the experience for those who truly believe in Davidson athletics? Your condemnation of the basketball team is an example of the same uninformed and ignorant attitude that I have heard during my first three years on the football field. I would try to explain to you how much a negative environment affects the psyche and performance of a young and struggling athletic team, but I’m afraid the argument would be lost on you.

If school spirit is so terrible, why have so many people in the athletic department adopted Coach Fagg’s zeal for school spirit and competitiveness? The answer is because his approach works. I would like to think that our success was only minimally based on our reclassification to Division III. Rather, it was caused by a total reworking of our outlook on ourselves and our school.

The final point in your article I wish to question is your contention that the Baker Sports Complex ticket policy is too strict. While I agree that sometimes the complex is far too inaccessible, I have never experienced any difficulty in gaining admittance to a basketball game this year. A question that springs to mind is that if you find it so difficult to get into a Davidson basketball game and endure an hour or two of “obnoxious” fan behavior, why do you bother going at all, much less writing about the experience? If you feel the need to drown your hackneyed sarcasms in your beloved Bush beer, and as evidenced by your disdain for athletes and things athletic, then obviously an NCAA event is not the place for you.

So please, Mr. Thompson, spare us your negative attitude regarding Davidson athletics. If you are not going to be part of the solution, at least refrain from compounding the problem.

Also, Iraqis Continued from Page 6 “abortion pill.” We are alsoOn record (as of January 27) as supporting President Bush’s policies in the Persian Gulf. Two years ago a bill to repeal North Carolina’s anti-sodomy law failed, but another bill with the same intent will be debated in March. Debate can get quite heated as so-called “liberals” contend with so-called “conservatives.” Besides, Kyle and Seth are members of the Davidson Delegation, so you can imagine how the delegation’s votes turn out at statewide meetings.

The other topic which drove me finally to write about the war was the front-page story about Islam. Unfortunately, I may not be able to articulate properly what I want to say; the best I can do is depend on that occasionally annoying rhetorical device of unanswered questions. To what extent can we use our own belief system to judge the events in the Gulf region? This question works two ways. On the one hand, we have acted (or at least claim to act) according to Western traditions of the democratic process, the rule of law, and the value of human rights—traditions which Hussein’s actions imply mean nothing to him. On the other hand, what choice do we have? If, as the article states, Iraqis view this conflict as a battle of the faithful against the nonbelievers, what should our role as “nonbelievers” be? Granted, I respect the opinions of the Iraqi people, just as I respect, for example, the opinions of the pro-life movement. However, demonstrators at abortion clinics still should be arrested when they violate the law, and I see no reason why Iraq should not be forced out of Kuwait.

To what extent does becoming “more aware of the religious dimensions of this crisis” actually help, especially if “the problem is not primarily religious in nature, but political and economic”? (to quote from parts of the article). How much should a recognition that “Muslims... view the wealth, power, and success of the United States as deadly temptations from outside leading them away from God” affect our current policy, given that an apparent majority in the U.S. view the actions of Iraq towards Kuwait as deadly threats to international stability? What evidence is there that Iraqis in general and Hussein in particular truly understand our worldview, rather than simply their perception of us?

How are we supposed to negotiate with Saddam Hussein when his invasion of Kuwait demonstrates that he himself prefers the use of force to peaceful negotiation? In all the debates I have heard and read over the rightness of our use of force to remove the Iraqi army from Kuwait, only two paragraphs in Gilbert Shaw’s pre-war column came close to making some sort of comparison between our actions (attempt to negotiate, then attack) and Hussein’s (ditto). After all, before the invasion Hussein was involved in a dialogue with Kuwait; when talks did not produce the results he wanted soon enough, he invaded. It seems that by his own actions, Hussein demonstrates that he himself values force over diplomacy. What real results could we reasonably have expected, then, by continued attempts to work out the issues over a conference table?

I realize that a counterargument to the implied justification in the last paragraph exists and runs something along the lines of, “We shouldn’t stoop to his level.” Considering that the alternative requires us somehow to “pull him up” to our level, I see no soundness in that approach to the situation. Given the Islamic worldview presented in last week’s article, Hussein is as likely to follow our lead as he is to convert to Presbyterianism.

I’ll finish this part with a couple of questions relating to the historical references which some have made wondering why the U.S. is acting now when it has ignored aggression in the past. If I witness several murders which I could have prevented but did not, does that mean I no longer need to feel the duty to stop any subsequent murders which may be attempted in my presence? Does a context of hypocrisy invalidate the attempt to liberate Kuwait? And a final shot for the vocal war supporters: Why is there not also a lot of pro-American-ideals-based demonstrating for immediate U.S. intervention in the Baltic states? I look forward to reading some answers to these questions.

By the way, the NCSL delegation attempts to meet every Monday night at 9:05 p.m. somewhere in the Union; if you’re interested, please walk around and find us, as advertising can get expensive and wasteful.

Warren Cooksey is a junior history major from Raleigh, NC.

Since arriving at Davidson in 1987, I have constantly been told (by game attendance figures and general student attitude) that the Davidson football team was no good and that we are a bunch of loser jocks. Coach Dave Fagg came in this year and changed that. He accomplished this by reemphasizing the student sides of our student-athlete personas and by organizing a number of your “obnoxious” pep rallies. If, Mr. Thompson, collegiate pep is so lost on your ears, if you ever find yourself totally devoid of school spirit and collegiate pep, try singing the Davidson College Fight Song. If by some unbelievable coincidence you don’t know it, feel free to call me or any member of the football team, and we will be more than happy to assist you.

Sincerely,
CHRIS WOODS ‘91
February 6, 1991

Remember, Always, Always, Recycle For The Davidsonian