THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

A Few Words From the Union's Most Intimate Committee: IPC

By Chris Hoveland

At first glance, a flyer advertising an event with the Intimate Performance Committee might cause you to raise an eyebrow
or look twice. This is understandable considering the obscure nature of the committee’s title. You may find yourself asking, “What
exactly is an Intimate Performance anyway?”

Imagine this scene: a blues band called Highway 61 is playing an old Otis Redding tune which features the deep,
growly voice of Highway’s “Skeeter” Brandon. About midway through the song, the band dies down leaving Skeeter, an enormous black
man with a neck the size of a tree trunk, to finish it up a cappella. A woman from the
audience leads the blind vocalist down into the middle of the audience where Skeeter just cried the blues. Anyone who
witnessed it will certainly remember it as an incredibly emotion-stirring performance.

This kind of performance is what “I.P.C.” is about. People who saw Taj Mahal, or John Hammond, or Col. Bruce
and the Aquarium Rescue Unit, or Sapphire, or David Wilcox will tell you different but equally exciting stories from these
shows. An I.P.C. event is guaranteed to be a unique musical experience.

I.P.C. has two major projects in store for this year. The first is “Stormy Monday Blues Night:” on the first
Monday of every month I.P.C. will feature a blues band or performer. Tonight (Monday, September 2) “Mo’ Money” will be
visiting us from Charlotte. Also scheduled for later this year are Drink Small and Bob Margolin.

Inside Art:

The photograph below was submitted to Davidson Arts by Leigh McKeever, a senior history major from Atlanta, Georgia. Leigh took
the picture at a peace march in Washington, D.C. last January. She noted at the march how grossly children had
been manipulated by their elders to express both pro- and anti-war sentiments, and the notion inspired the particular composition of
this photograph.

The second is Phish. If you haven’t heard them yet get a hold of an album or a bootleg. Amazing.
Weird. Hilarious. Phish sounds like a unique conglomeration of Steely Dan, Yes, Dizzy Gillespie, Frank Zappa, and a barber shop
quartet. They’ll be here November 13 probably in Love Auditorium. Keep an eye out for ticket information. This will certainly
be a “can’t miss” performance.

If you are interested in or have any questions concerning the Intimate Performance Committee, please contact Peter Jackson or Chris
Hoveland.

Wednesday, September 4

Davidson Arts Calendar

Monday, September 2 - Thursday, September 5

Friday, September 6

Saturday, September 7

Now Playing

Stormy Monday Blues Night:

Cinema Classics:

Cinema Classics:

Tommy at 9:45 in the

Cinema Classics:

Dead Again, at SouthPark

Mo’ Money at 8:30 in the 900 Room

Fantasia at 9:45 in the 900 Room

900 Room

Gallery Crawl:

Spirit Square in Charlotte 6:00-8:00.

Fantasia at 9:00 in the 900 Room

Concert:

The Spongetones at 8:30 in front of Chambers (FREE)

North By Northwest at 3:00 in the 900 Room

in Charlotte

Dead Again

Continued from page 8

trayal both of Roman’s subdued rage and Mike’s desperate outbursts, while always retaining the characters’ dark humor, will hopefully garner
him the academy award many thought he should have received for his performance as Henry two years ago. Emma Thompson
(who is married to Branagh, and portrayed Katherine in Henry V), is an absolute joy to watch. With only a
glance or the slightest movement, Thompson manages to evoke the sympathies of the audience. She ardently refuses to employ “sad
puppy” techniques. Instead, we are driven to feel for an obviously strong, intelligent woman, who has lost control of her
life and her mind through no fault of her own, and who fears the act of discovering herself.

Derek Jacobi delivers the most remarkable performance as Franklin Madsyn, an antique dealer/hypnotist who holds more than one key to
the mystery. His acting is reminiscent of his work in Stanley Kubrick’s A Clockwork Orange, as Madsyn’s eccentric patterns of
inflection tend to reflect those of the probation officer Deltoid.

In a cameo appearance, Robin Williams plays a disgraced psychiatrist who spends most of his time in a grocery meat
locker. The role itself is unnecessary to the film, and Williams’ attempt to play a crass genius is flawed. His
contribution is better left, as it has been, off of the posters and most TV ads.

The film does, however, have its flaws. Branagh does not yet seem to have mastered the art of a modern
love scene in a manner like his handling of the wooing scene in Henry V. Unfortunately, the film does not
develop the love relationships between Margaret and Roman; Grey Baker (Andy Garcia) and Margaret; and Mike and Grace (the name
he attaches to Thompson’s character during her amnesia). The affection the characters have for one another is merely written, not
acted, and certainly not felt by the audience.

Grating, too, is the film’s over-employment of scissors as both a symbol of severed trust and an image of gruesome
violence.

In spite of these shortcomings, Dead Again is one of the most satisfying films of recent years. In a summer
riddled with heavy-handed, unabashedly sentimental, and simplistically structured treatises about emotional enlightenment such as Regarding Henry and The Doctor, Dead
Again is a most refreshing cinematic jolt.
