12

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

Archives

Continued from page 10

Freshmen Codes were to be investigated and dealt with by this Court of upperclassmen:

As Davidson College developed, so did the Freshmen regulations. Some issues of the handbook require freshmen to carry matches for the upperclassmen or the freshmen not to enter the post office until 8:35 am [so the upperclass could get their mail first]. However, the following rules were consistently found throughout the student handbooks:

-- Freshmen shall show respect to upperclassmen at all times.

-- Freshmen must know college yells and songs by the seventh day after school opens.

-- Freshmen must wear at all times, the caps prescribed for them by the Court of Control [Hester Prynne had a scarlet ‘A’, freshmen had their beanies].

-- Freshmen shall not walk on the grass of Davidson campus.

-- Freshmen shall remain in chapel seats until all upperclassmen have cleared the room [applicable when chapel was mandatory].

-- Each Freshman shall have his own placard with his name inserted in the proper place, hanging in a conspicuous place in his room throughout the year.

-- Freshmen are required to attend all pep meetings and be on time.

-- Freshmen are required to attend all major athletic events fifteen minutes early, sit together, and remain through the entire contest.

-- Freshmen are required to wear YMCA nameplates until Oct 15.

-- Freshmen must carry to all athletic contests and pep meetings the megaphones prescribed for them by the Court of Control.

-- Freshmen are required to speak to all men they meet on campus and tip their hats to the members of the faculty.

(taken from the Student Handbook of 1939-40)

If the freshmen were able to beat the sophomore class in the Upperclass/Freshmen football game held in October, these codes ceased with the final seconds of the match. However, if they lost, the beanies were seen until the end of the year. When they had won their freedom through sport or endurance, the freshmen celebrated with huge beanie burning parties and eagerly awaited the next freshman class to enter Davidson.

“Excuse me. Do y’all have to still eat at the Commons the first semester?”

“The Commons? What’s that?”

“Or did you play the name game or get suckered into your first Davidson kiss?”

“I’m sorry, sir, but my private life is none...”

“The regatta. You must do the Freshmen Regatta.”

“The reg-what? Oh yeah. That regotcha thing. Everything less than ten dollars, build a raft, and race a couple yards. You know, they forced you to do some weird stuff.”

Read The Davidsonian

Sex

Continued from page 11.

If you have any specific concerns regarding sexual health or questions you would like to see covered in this column, send letters to P.O. Box 219 (attention: Oma Blaise) or drop it by the Davidsonian office. You don’t have to put your name on the letter, as they will remain anonymous.

Write for Campus Living

Call May Martin or Leigh McKeever for more details.

Come by for a demonstration and get a FREE T-SHIRT!

Computerized Help At Little

Named in honor of Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson ‘28 Library Director Emeritus

E.H. Little Library Davidson College

The Automated Catalogue is Now featuring 375,000 volumes in the E.H. Little, Chemistry, & Music Libraries

8 Periodical Indexes— Reader’s Guide, Art Index, etc.