Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991 NUMBER 12

Committee Formed to Deal With Campus Tensions
By Kevin Miller

Richard Terry, Chuck Hasty, Brenda Tapia, Ruth Pittard, and John Eaves, members of the Student Affairs Staff, decided last week to organize an informal committee to discuss the unusually high amount of tension that has generated among various groups of students throughout the past four weeks. Concern over heated debates about the appropriateness of many controversial fraternity flyers, the possibility of having a F.L.A.G. organization on campus, and the apparent rise in racism on campus are some of the conflicts that brought this group together.

The group was not formed, according to Terry, because of a large number of reported violations of the Code of Responsibility, or because of many unhappy students preparing to leave Davidson. If that were true, he said, the administration would have taken more direct action. Instead, Terry said, a lot of the tension has fallen under the age-old issue of free speech (i.e. - the flyers, the many opinion letters in the Davidsonian). Therefore, the administration did not want to infringe on that inalienable right.

In an effort to bring these problems to the forefront, the group sent out letters to all administrators, teachers, and other college employees. They also placed an ad in this week’s Davidsonian addressed to students, inviting everyone to join in an informal open forum about these problems. Through this and future such discussions of bigotry, the group hopes that students and teachers can find some solutions to these problems, and that Davidson can truly become the diverse college that people believe it to be. Terry emphasized, however, that this

Assistant Library Director Beaty to Retire At End of Year
By Tom Price

Dr. Mary Beaty, the assistant director of the E.H. Little Library and the head of the reference department, has decided to retire at the close of this academic year. She has worked at Davidson since 1973, when she came from the University of Richmond. Dr. Leland Park, the director of the library, said, “Mary’s contribution to this Library and to this College have been substantial and lasting ones. We wish her the best and give her our thanks.”

Beaty grew up in Davidson and has “always loved it.” During the 1960s, Beaty taught at the University of Richmond, where she was Chairperson of the Department of Ancient Languages. In 1973, Beaty decided to return to Davidson. In addition to her work in the library, she has periodically taught classes in Latin and in the Humanities program. During her retirement, Beaty will explore interests such as painting, music, reading, and perhaps do some volunteer work. Beaty said that she is not exactly sure what she will do, but simply wants “more free time.”

Beaty may also continue writing during her retirement. During her time at Davidson she has written three works concerning the Davidson community. These include Davidson: A History of the Town from 1835-1973 (1979), A History of Davidson College (1988), and A History of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church (1987). When asked what she will miss most about her daily work, Beaty didn’t hesitate to say, “The people.” Beaty says she will miss fellow workers, faculty, and students. She said that over the years Davidson has provided “wonderful students to work with.” She explained that she has enjoyed not having a “grading barrier” with students as a librarian, and has cherished the opportunity to help them. Beaty has seen numerous changes during her time at the

See "Beaty” on page 2

ROTC Blood Drive Nets 136
By Tom Koonce

The Red Cross and the ROTC department held their annual blood drive at Davidson Friday. Jim Leesch was the ROTC officer in charge at the drive and Dave Harding was the non-commissioned officer in charge. According to Leesch, the goal for this year’s drive was 125 units of blood. Friday’s total surpassed this goal since 136 units were received by the Red Cross. The Red Cross said that 156 people arrived to give blood and twenty were deferred for various reasons. There were 38 first-time donors on Friday and 98 people who had given blood in the past. The units of blood received this year surpass last year’s total by 36 units. Leesch said that last year’s drive was very hectic because it was held on the last day ofForum may produce no solution at all because this “tension” may be coming from the close-quartered living conditions of college and that it may be a passing cycle of student life. The group and Terry, though, do not want to sit on their hands and let the phase work its way out, so a forum, he said, seems to be the best way to work on the problems.

See "Tensions" on page 3

Verner Discusses Portrayal of Black and White Women In The American Media
By Laura Cunningham

Thursday night in the 900 Room, Brenda Verner, media specialist and expert on black and women’s studies, spoke on the portrayal of black and white women in the American media. Born in Chicago and educated at Ithaca College and Harvard, Brenda Verner is founder of the African-American Women’s Caucus of the National Women’s Studies Association. She has taught courses at Cornell University in the study of women since slavery, and written for several magazines. Her expertise in media analysis has made her a popular guest speaker on talk shows and in college lecture halls.

In a slide show presentation, “Public Property: Media Images of Black and White Women,” Verner explained how various types of media, especially magazines and “trade cards” popular earlier in the century, perpetuated racial and gender stereotypes. Sponsored by the Dean of Students Office, Public Lectures Committee, and other campus groups, the talk addressed how the media controls public perceptions of black and white women. The slides dated back to the mid-nineteenth century, showing advertisements depicting blacks,

See "Verner" on page 2

Parker Addresses Human Aspect of Ecological Problems in Developing Nations
By Walter Price

Dr. Kathy Parker, a social ecologist and president of the Oriskany Institute, spoke Tuesday in the Morrison Room on “The Loss and Conservation of Biological Diversity: The Human Dimension.” Parker, in addition to being a non-resident lecturer at Yale’s School of Forestry, also heads a group that focuses on national resource development management. Her lecture, sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program, centered on the human aspect of ecological problems in the world’s developing nations.

The lecture centered on how humans have affected the loss and conservation of biological diversity, the variety of living organisms and the ecological complexes in which they occur, particularly in the developing nations of the Third World. Parker stressed that humans should “think of the issue globally, nationally, locally and personally.” According to Parker, humans have played a primary role in making changes in the world’s biological diversity. Then Parker addressed the “signs of hope and signs of

See "Parker" on page 2

Fletcher Speaks on Genetics and Ethics
By Casey Otis

On Thursday, November 7, Dr. John C. Fletcher spoke on the “new” genetics and ethical problems that have arisen with new technology. The title of his speech was “Where in the World are We Going with the New Genetics?” Fletcher is a professor of Biomedical Ethics and Religious Studies at the University of Virginia.

Fletcher talked about the growing field of medical genetics and genetic services. He stressed the difference between “old” and “new” genetics. With the old genetics, operations were risky and not very accurate. With the new genetics, our medical capabilities have expanded to operations dealing with the fetus that are safe and effective. “New genetics” has allowed physicians to discover genetic defects by way of amniocentesis, after just sixteen weeks of pregnancy. Fletcher said, “there will never be genetic perfection,” but believes that with the advancements in the field, more options are opening for treatment and prevention of genetic defects. Fletcher gave a list of eight major ethics problems dealing with information derived from genetic operations. Those problems include access to genetic services,

See "Fletcher" on page 3

INSIDE

NEWS: Wallets stolen from Baker Sports Complex. See page 2.

CAMPUS LIVING: Jim Weaver on environmental organizations. See page 9.

OPINIONS: Atchison goes to cite for territorialism. See page 11.

SPORTS: Fall seasons come to a close. See page 13.

ARTS: Mystery writing alumna to open lecture series. See page 8.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036