THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

Davidson Arts

McKendree Robbins Long: From Davidson Student To Religious Artist

By Jim Carswell

On Thursday, November 7, Robert Maschal, art critic for the Charlotte Observer, delivered a lecture on McKendree Robbins Long, the artist whose “revelatory” paintings are now hanging in the Art Gallery in Chambers. For those who attended, Maschal offered interesting insight into the mind of an eccentric but talented local artist. A quick stroll through the gallery will hint at a unique and perhaps disturbed artistic intellect.

McKendree Long was more, though, than a zealous Christian painter. In fact, Long was a Statesville native, born there in 1888, and even attended Davidson, though only for a year, back in 1907-8, when Davidson was not the liberal and open place it is now. The college did not particularly welcome so-called artist types. As a result, Long left after only a year and traveled to New York to study with the Art Students League. The art world at the time was at a crossroads, with the emergence of American Modernism and Cubism offering a distinct and rather conflicting alternative to the established academic school. Long, though, seems to have ignored the new movements (actually, there is no conclusive evidence he was exposed to them) and concentrated his early efforts on portraiture. Maschal cited a 1908 letter to his father in which Long expressed a desire to become “a master of masters.” This goal apparently led him to Europe, where he studied with a former student of John Singer Sargent. And he claimed in fact to have met the master himself. The result of all this education was a talented portrait artist. Maschal and others in the audience stressed that his early portraits exhibit a certain artistic skill, which can be seen in the paintings now in Chambers. Though the revelatory works were not painted until the 1960s, the human figures reveal a talent that remained years after his original education. And in fact, Long’s ability made possible a decent living as an artist in New York upon his return from Europe.

Other passions called him, though, and Long put down his brush in the 1920s to pick up the Bible. Apparently, his experience as an ambulance driver in France in World War I affected him deeply, and Long let his religious fervor grow. Channeling it first into Presbyterian preaching and evangelizing, Long eventually became bored, and switched to Baptism in 1935. He hit the revival circuit as a fire-and-brimstone preacher, billed as a “Picture Painter of the Gospel.” By that time, he had given up painting entirely; however, he did indulge a desire to draw, as Maschal showed with slides from the papers that Long left. Some of the drawings deal with the creatures described in the Book of Revelation, which became increasingly important to Long as he aged. His notes, in fact, reveal a fascination with the wars he witnessed, the Cold War, and nuclear issues. And he began to associate these subjects with the Armageddon that Revelation describes. In fact, a hymn that he composed identifies nuclear bombs as the instrument of God’s wrath, which he apparently expected soon. Finally, he retired from preaching in the 1960s and turned back to art. As is evident in the paintings in Chambers, though, he did not forget his religion or lose his fascination with Armageddon. These later paintings depict various scenes from Revelation, including the Apocalypse, the Judgment, and Hell. Human sexuality becomes an important issue as well, as the mysterious Lady in Red appears several times in intriguing scenarios. She was apparently a woman with whom McKendree Long was obsessed, and Maschal speculates that she spurned his feelings, despite the heartfelt letters and poems he composed for her. The sexuality issue appears in the representations of clouds as well. A close look reveals they are sometimes more than cumulus formations. Maschal postulates that Long’s repressedsexuality, which seems so important to understanding his work, was a result of his Victorian background. He was a “man of the Nineteenth Century” despite the fact that he lived in our times. He was known to wear a white suit and carry a cane through Statesville, where he once challenged a man to a duel for slandering a friend. Truly, McKendree Robbins Long was an unusual individual. All of the eccentricities Maschal described in his lecture appear in the paintings that Davidson has had the fortune to exhibit for the last month. Be sure to see them soon if you're interested, because the exhibit ends November 20.

"Mistress of Mystery" To Open Alumni Lecture Series
By Beth Brown

“A New Mistress of Mystery... Cornwell trots out her expertise in a dazzling fashion... Postmortem is a first-rate thriller, and I hope to run into Dr. Scarpetta again.” -- Los Angeles Times

Patsy Cornwell’s degree from Davidson led her to the morgue. After graduating in 1979, she became an investigative police journalist for the Charlotte Observer. She then moved to Richmond, Virginia and took a job in the Chief Medical Examiner’s Office. These two experiences provide the backdrop for a career as a mystery writer. Her first novel, Postmortem, won the John Creasey Award from the British Crime Writer’s Association as the best first crime novel of the year. Her second mystery, Body of Evidence, came out earlier this year, and she is currently writing a third.

Dr. Kay Scarpetta is introduced in Postmortem as the Chief Medical Examiner of the Commonwealth of Virginia. In preparation for this novel, Cornwell took a full-time job as a computer analyst in the Medical Examiner’s Office. She says, “It is important to me to live in the world I write about. If I want a character to do or know something, I try to do or know the same thing.”

How does one go from English 495 to becoming a successful novelist? Cornwell says that the best way is to write about what you know -- in her case murder, crime, and autopsies. Her mysteries are set in Richmond and inspired by real crimes that she has encountered through the Medical Examiner’s Office. Marcella Fierro (the mother of two Davidson students) has been part of the inspiration for Dr. Kay Scarpetta. Cornwell has observed Fierro’s work as a medical examiner to provide the detailed (and gruesome) descriptions of autopsies in Postmortem and Body of Evidence. Cornwell describes Scarpetta as a bit like herself “only much more intellectual and analytical. Thankfully she does the work, I would rather write about it.” Although Cornwell has never performed an autopsy, she has watched over 200. She depicts the morgue with chilling accuracy. She writes:

“The wand probing several inches of Lori Peterson’s right shoulder when directly over her right clavicle three irregular smudges suddenly leaped out as if they were painted with phosphorus. We both stood still and stared. Then he whistled through his teeth as a faint chill ran up my spine. Retrieving a jar of powder and a Magna brush, Vander delicately dusted what appeared to be three latent fingerprints left on Lori Peterson’s skin.”

Women have traditionally played nothing more than the private-eye role in detective mysteries. The debut of Dr. Scarpetta reflects a growing trend of novels written by and about women who speak from their experience as FBI agents, spies, or medical examiners. Cornwell says, “we [women] can write with authority, power, and from experience. Combine that with a woman’s sensibilities and you have a compelling story.”

Patsy Cornwell will be on campus November 14-15. She will read excerpts of her mysteries and discuss the evolution of her unusual career on November 14th at 7:30 in the 900 Room. A reception and book signing will immediately follow the lecture. Students will have an opportunity to meet with her in a less formal atmosphere Friday morning. The English Department and the Alumni Lectures Committee of the Union are sponsoring her visit. Plan to attend the first Alumni Lectures event of the year, celebrating the accomplishments of Davidson graduates.