MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991 Sports

Catcher Jay Dalton takes his cuts at the plate against Duke.
Photo By Davidsonian Sports Staff

By Bruce Balestier

Let me take this time to make another impassioned plea for Davidson’s return to the Southern Conference. I think the
advantages implicit in such a move are obvious, but I'll repeat them anyway.

1. Competitive, established rivalries.
2. A beneficial step up in the level of competition in almost every sport.
3. Member schools with athletic and academic makeups relatively similar to Davidson’s. The other schools’ greater size seems daunting, but
when you’re the smallest Division I school (and Davidson is) it is something with which you must live.
4. The Southern is a conference on the rise; the addition of Georgia Southern, a Division I-AA national champion in
football many times over, brings even greater respectability to a football conference which already includes Furman and the Citadel, both
perpetual dwellers in the I-AA top 20.
5. They have allowed us to rejoin and to continue to play football at the Division III level. It seems
to me that Davidson would never have left in the first place had not the trustees put to death the
I-AA football program which was then a condition for membership in the Southern.

Please, please, please.

Looking at the ease with which Coastal Carolina got by Augusta (their victim in the Big South Tournament final) and
Jackson State (the casualty in the NCAA Tournament play-in game) made me think that Davidson, losers by just 3 points
to the Chants in the semis, could easily have followed the same route to the NCAAs. And as the only
team in the Tournament with a losing record (they would have been 13-18), the ‘Cats would have been offered up
as a sacrifice to those basketball deities in red and white, UNLV. The horror, the horror.

The Wildcats’ actual 10-19 finish was not a disappointing one for me. Sure, there were plenty of negatives; the team
seemed at times unable to break a press or inbound the ball, turned the ball over with incredible frequency, and
gave away a couple of close games (the OT loss at UNC-Asheville, when the Bulldogs hit two 3-pointers in the
final :05 to force overtime, sticks in my mind). But it is important to remember that the team was dominated
by freshmen. The starting lineup for most of the year consisted of four freshmen, guards Jason Zimmerman and Pat Holloway
and forwards Janko Narat and James Marsh, and sophomore center Detlef Musch. Overall, freshmen scored 60% of the team’s points,
played 56% of the minutes, grabbed 47% of the rebounds and accounted for 59% of the assists. Keep in mind,
too, that freshmen Scott Alford and Ron Horton, both major contributors while healthy, missed most of the season due to
injury.

See "Front" on Page 11

‘Cats End Week Of Perfect Victory

By Alan Rosselot

Davidson’s baseball team capped a perfect week by crushing Charleston Southern 15-0 in the second game of a doubleheader on
Saturday at Wildcat Park. This destruction of the Buccaneers concluded a three-game sweep of Charleston Southern, a Big South foe,
in addition to extending the Wildcats' win streak to five. The five victories include these three as well as wins
over Duke and Lafayette. The streak has brought the Wildcats' season record up to .500 at 12-12 (8-8 in the
Big South). The Wildcats hope to pull above the even mark with a win over first-year program UNC-Greensboro before they
head to Hawaii over Spring Break for the prestigious Rainbow Classic.

As demonstrated by their run totals against Charleston Southern, the Wildcat bats have definitely been a factor in winning games.
More importantly, however, may be the strong performances on the mound. Pitchers Dave Williams, Brad Wanzenberg,and Jim Stanfill allowed only
five runs in four games this week. Williams (5-1) earned two wins, Wanzenberg (3-2, one save) picked up the save
against Duke and a win against Charleston Southern, and Stanfill (1-0) held Charleston Southern to one run. Perhaps the biggest
win of the week came on Tuesday as the Wildcats took advantage of three errors by Duke’s third baseman, Sean
McNally, to score two runs in the sixth inning. The Wildcats held on to beat Duke 4-3. Williams gave up
three runs in seven innings and Wanzenberg held the Blue Devils scoreless for two innings to seal the victory. The
Wildcats headed into the weekend series against the Charleston Southern Buccaneers needing wins to place themselves in contention in the
Big South. Other Big South schools have yet to really begin their conference play. The Bucs proved to be exactly
what the Cats needed as they coasted to three easy victories. In the first game of the series on Friday,
Stanfill overcame a shaky start to hold the Bucs to only one run while the Cats warmed up the basepaths.
The Cats rolled to an 8-1 win. Saturday’s doubleheader saw a repeat performance as Williams allowed only one run while
pitching a complete game. Freshman catcher Brett Boretti (2-3, 3 RBIs), designated hitter Steve Livesey (3-3, 2 runs scored), and
shortstop Rick Bender (2-4, 2 runs scored) highlighted the Davidson attack. Bender and first baseman Joe Azzolino each hit homers
as the Cats walked away with a 6-1 victory. In the final game of the series, Wanzenberg pitched a complete
game shutout, allowing only four hits while striking out five. In the meantime, the Cats took advantage of Buc errors
to score eight runs in the first two innings, six of which were unearned. Of the fifteen Wildcat runs, seven
were unearned. The Wildcats take on UNC-Greensboro on Tuesday at Wildcat Park before they head to Hawaii on Wednesday. In
the Rainbow Classic, Davidson’s pitchers must continue to have strong outings if the Wildcats are to have a chance. The
Cats will play a total of nine games in nine days while in Hawaii. The schedule includes Wichita State and
the University of Hawaii, ranked 6th and 17th in the nation, respectively.

Men's Tennis Stretches Win Streak
By Robert Grubb

The men’s tennis team continued its turnaround this week, increasing their winning streak to four. The Wildcats beat Washington College
(a top-ten Division III team), Sewanee, and conference rival Charleston Southern last week to improve their record to 4-6. Davidson
started slowly against Washington College, having to come back to finish the singles tied 3-3. Coach Jeff Frank was not
happy with the singles play of the team, but found encouragement in the doubles play. Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer
were handed a rare defeat at number one doubles, but the new doubles combinations of Russell Briggs and Dale Voeks
at number two and Albie Varoski and David Jespersen at number three came through with wins to seal a 5-4
victory for Davidson. Frank hoped that winning a close match would give the team a needed confidence boost. Zabell agreed
with Frank. “It’s good to know that we can win even when we play badly,” said Zabell. The Cats had
an easier time against Sewanee, winning 9-0. Sewanee was a weaker team than Washington College, but Frank attributed the victory
to a better overall performance by Davidson. The Wildcats carried their momentum into their match with Charleston Southern. Davidson won
the match in the singles portion, scoring a 6-0 sweep. The teams played the doubles because the conference match will
have an effect on seedings in the Big South tournament. The Wildcats did well, winning all three doubles matches as
well. Beyer and Zabell won a tough match in a third set tiebreak. Frank was pleased with the play of
the team this week. “I was especially happy with the play of the new doubles combinations,” said Frank. “They came
through for us in the Washington College match.”
