14 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991 SPORTS

Davidson Swimming Returns
By Tom Koonce

In the 1970s and early 1980s, Davidson had very successful swimming teams that finished as high as second in the Southern Conference championships. Davidson also had several All-Southern Conference swimmers, six in the 1979 season. The team’s record in 1979 was 12-3 followed by more exceptional seasons and a record of 11-2 in 1982. Unfortunately, in that same year, the Davidson swim program was dropped. The problem was Johnston Gym. It was considered unsafe for diving and Davidson swimmers were forced to go to UNCC for practices and home meets.

Now, the swimming area in the Baker Sports Complex has generated a renewed interest in a Davidson swimming and diving team. Aquatics Director Ron Morrow recently received approval to reinstate men’s and women’s competition swimming and diving. Up until now, a Davidson club team has been competing against such teams as Pfeiffer, Salem College, and Florida A&M. The club team defeated Florida A&M, a Division I school, last month. Morrow said that the team “did an outstanding job and came away with a win against a strong team.”

The college will not fund the new intercollegiate swimming program, so it is up to the Athletic Department to find funds. Morrow hopes to get some funds through fundraising, since there are over 500 former Davidson swimmers. The funds are primarily needed to install an automatic timing system in the new natatorium. Morrow said that the new facility and student interest were the main reasons for the formation of the program. The new team will compete on the Division I level and next year’s schedule is already falling into place. In response to the rumors that Cannon pool is too short for meets, Morrow said that it is “the perfect size.” He added that the bulkhead can be moved in order to swim 25.

Please, Please, Please Return To The Big Southern Conference
By Bruce Balestier

They call the Big South the worst basketball conference in the country, and while that may be a bit excessive, it is in contention for the honor. It is Small Time, capitals intended, and the conference basketball tournament held this weekend in the middle of nowhere (a.k.a. Anderson, S.C.) proved that emphatically. The Civic Center of Anderson, a nice building to be sure, is still little more than a glorified bandbox. There are only seats on three sides, and the scoreboards are temporary. Joining the Big South was a vast improvement over independent status, but it is most certainly a dead end. We would be crazy not to rejoin the Southern Conference.

Academically, schools like Furman, the Citadel, and VMI match up better with Davidson than Radford, Winthrop, and Augusta, the academic giants of the Big South. In terms of name recognition and national exposure, the Southern beats the Big South hands down. For most sports, the Southern is a step up in competition, but one which can be handled. In fact, many sports at Davidson already schedule a host of Southern Conference opponents. The importance of Davidson’s historical ties to the Southern Conference cannot be overlooked. Davidson belonged to the SC from 1936-1988, developing a number of heated rivalries and enjoying a moderate amount of success; the Davidson basketball team advanced to the NCAA Tournament in 1966, 1968, 1969, 1970, and 1986 while a member of the Southern Conference.

The $17 million Baker Sports Complex seats 5,700 for basketball, and has been even close to being filled only once, against Duke last year. This year, the ‘Cats drew decent crowds for Wake Forest, Appalachian State (a Southern Conference school), and South Carolina, but averaged about 1,000 fans for its Big South games. In the Big South, there are no discernible rivalries.and no one in the Charlotte area cares if they see them even if they do exist. Our roots are in the Southern Conference, and my hunch is that our rivalries there will be quickly rejuvenated if we return. It is also my hunch that people will turn out in much greater numbers to see Southern Conference opponents, since alumni of Western Carolina, Appalachian State, Furman, and the Citadel populate the Charlotte area. It might be nice to fill Belk Arena with people and bring in some money to pay for it more than two or three times a season. It seems like an obvious choice; Davidson belongs in the Southern Conference.

* Sorry to contradict Bob Hornsby, but I asked around this weekend at the conference tournament, and Bob McKillop is known as a good basketball coach and a perfectly fine excuse for a man. He probably should have started Turner and Darry, but his manhood didn’t rest on the matter. As far as his interests being self-serving, of course they were. He gets paid to win basketball games and must do whatever he can in order to do that. Somehow, I trust his judgment in that arena more than that of Mr. Hornsby.

Morrow said that some believed that Davidson wanted a 50-meter pool. This was not true, according to Morrow, because Davidson did not need a pool of that size and it would have taken another million dollars to make it that long. Morrow is now in the process of sending out surveys and getting a brochure together. He believes that there is a lot of existing talent on the Davidson campus right now and hopes that qualified swimmers who are not on the club team will be inspired to swim for an intercollegiate team. Spring training for the swimming and diving team begins this week. Anybody can come out to swim for pleasure or to try out for the team. The training is from 3:00 until 4:30 each afternoon this week. The club team traveled to the Triangle for a weekend meet with the Master’s Swimmers from Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill, their last meet of the year. Next year’s intercollegiate team will complete a full season, swimming from August to April.

All-Stars, Moon Dogs, Warner Hall Win IMAC Titles
By Bruce Balestier

Chuck Brooks’ desperation tip-in as time expired gave the All-Stars a 70-68 overtime victory over KA Gold in the A League championship game. Brooks’ tip-in came after Craig DeRan’s 18-foot jumper fell short. As the final seconds ticked away, Brooks rose to bat the ball up and in from about ten feet away. Brooks’ heroics obscured a valiant effort from KA Gold, who fell behind by more than ten points in each half but fought back both times. The All-Stars led 66-61 before Matt Woodlief drilled a three-pointer to cut the lead to two. After a missed All-Star free throw, Barry Grow stormed the length of the floor to convert a layup as time expired, and sent the game into overtime. In the overtime, KA Gold was left with just 4 players after Arthur Morehead fouled out, and enacted what was called the “box and none” defense. Two free throws from the All-Stars’ Allan Thompson and two from KA Gold’s Carter Payne provided the only scoring before the decisive tip-in.

In the B League title game, the Moon Dogs made their decisive run midway through the second half, led by the scoring of Todd Newnam and Chris Sward, and coasted to victory over Delta Force. Three-pointers by Delta Force’s Dave Wright kept the game relatively close down the stretch. Cash captured the Women’s League crown with a hard-fought victory over Club. Bryson Moore’s free throws in the final minute were the difference.