4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor

CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE - Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian

Founded in 1914

“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

ANDREW SPAINHOUR - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

From The First

At an enthusiastic meeting on Wednesday night, March 18, the Davidson College Student Body voted for the establishment of a
weekly newspaper. Later, an editor and business manager were elected and a staff appointed. The present issue is the first
fruits of this action. The Davidsonian makes its initial bow.

In the inauguration of such a newspaper, many questions no doubt arise. “Why a college weekly? Does it have a
real value? What will it stand for?”

The newspaper is largely what its name implies, composed of news. It should be in close touch with every phase
of College life and the life of the community about it. Even in a small college, life becomes more and
more complex, and as the students are broken up into an increasing number of groups, there is a tendency not
to look beyond the questions and matters in which one man is directly interested. The college newspaper should give live
information about every group and department of college activity, keep them acquainted with each other, and thus promote a feeling
of mutual interest and encouragement. In addition, there are the things which vitally concern every student, and yet which are
not well known or misunderstood.

But the boundaries of a college are not the limits of its campus. In close contact with it every day
is a community which is certain to influence and be influenced by the student. The town column should make every
man feel that he has friends in the town, and their interest in the college should be increased by the
weekly items and topics about it.

The old Davidson spirit which has held sway at Davidson in tradition and fact for years goes with the graduate
that leaves here...

The newspaper...can increase the spirit in athletic, literary, social, and religious life here; it can be a link between college
and community, alumni and alma mater. The Davidsonian asks for your earnest cooperation.

This editorial appeared in full in the first issue of The Davidsonian on April 1, 1914

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.
