Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991 NUMBER 7

Davidson Falls Eleven Spots in Latest U.S. News Survey

By Tom Koonce

After reaching the top ten last year, Davidson dropped eleven spots in the 1991 U.S. News & World Report “America’s
Best Colleges” issue. The college fell from number ten to number twenty-one in national liberal arts colleges. Williams College in
Massachusetts was listed first in this category followed by Swarthmore (PA), Amherst (MA), Bowdoin (ME), and Pomona (CA). The only
other southern school listed in the top twenty-five was Washington & Lee, ranked behind Davidson at number twenty-two.

Davidson was also listed as number two in the "best buys" category of national liberal arts colleges. Davidson was listed
behind Washington and Lee in this ranking of top liberal arts colleges with the lowest current tuition prices.

U.S. News and World Report annually publishes listings of the top colleges and universities in various categories. Davidson was one
of 140 colleges in the national liberal arts category. The listing is based on statistical data provided by each school.
This data was combined into five categories: financial resources, student selectivity, faculty resources, academic reputation, and student satisfaction. From these
categories, a percentile score was computed and an overall rank was determined. This year’s ranking of twenty-one is the lowest
Davidson has been ranked since the survey began in 1983.

Robert Morse, of U.S. News and World Report, said the drop was, “Based on swings in two variables; in financial
resources and faculty resources.” Morse said that these categories were “two places where there was deterioration relative to other schools.”
The faculty resources category is made up of four components: 1990 ratio of full-time students to full-time equivalent instructional faculty,
the percent of full-time faculty with doctorates or other top terminal degrees, the percent of faculty with part-time status, and
the average salary with benefits of tenured professors. In 1990 Davidson was ranked number thirteen in this category and this
year the college was ranked number forty.

Compared to the 1990 survey, we stayed the same in faculty to student ratio (12/1 as listed in the magazine)
and went up from 94% to 97% in the percent of faculty with doctorates. Therefore, the large drop in the
faculty resources category was the result of two small statistical fluctuations. In 1989-1990 Davidson had one part-time faculty member and
in 1990-1991 the college had ten part-time faculty members. Dean of Faculty Robert Williams said, “We had to hire more
part-time people to help, especially for extra sections in languages.” The other contributing factor was the average salary with benefits
of tenured professors. U.S. News & World Report listed an increase of 3.4% in faculty salary. This listed increase was
based on 1990 salaries compared with those of 1989. Williams commented on the fact that salaries rose almost eight percent
from the 1990-91 school year to the 1991-92 school year. The listed percent increase was relatively lower than many other
schools in the survey, thus Davidson lost ground.

See "U.S. News" on page 2

Campaign For Davidson Continues Fundraising Effort

By Tom Price

The “Campaign For Davidson,” which began in November of 1989, is progressing well despite the stagnant economy. Currently, the campaign
has received pledges of approximately 85 million dollars, or 56.5% of the 150 million goal. This campaign represents the most
ambitious fundraising effort ever undertaken by a liberal arts institution of Davidson’s size. Osborne Bethea, Jr., the vice president for
institutional advancement, said that the campaign’s origins can be traced to a “strategic plan” for Davidson which was written by
the Board of Trustees in 1984. The trustees realized that Davidson needed to strengthen its financial base in order to
maintain its status as the South’s top liberal arts institution and continue its emergence as one of the nation’s top
colleges. Bethea said that the Board of Trustees realized the campaign was necessary “in order to get Davidson into the
21st century.” The Campaign for Davidson is a five-year effort, ending July 1, 1995. The 150 million will be distributed
into three areas.90 million will be allotted for endowment purposes, the majority of which will be used to support teaching.
45 million is allotted for physical facilities, which includes the Baker Sports Complex and the new arts center. The remaining
15 million is for annual operating support. Clearly, this effort is ambitious. If successful, the campaign will more than double
the school’s endowment, while also strengthening academic resources and greatly enhancing the physical facilities. Contributions have come from alumni, parents,
friends, corporations, and foundations. Bethea said that with this campaign, the col-

See "Campaign" on page 3

Survey Reveals Extent of Student Alcohol & Drug Use
By Russ Tisinger

A survey administered to Davidson students has provided some quantification of alcohol and drug use on campus. Visiting professor Rebecca
Marcon, with the help of her psychology classes, administered the survey to 260 randomly selected students in the spring of
1991. According to the survey, in a typical week, Davidson students drink an average of 12 beers and spend an
average of four hours consuming alcohol. In the survey, students were asked to estimate the amount of alcohol they drank
during the past week (a week in early March). Fifty-three percent of the respondents said that the amount they drank
that week was “typical” of other weeks. Thirty-five percent of those who described the week as “typical” consumed more alcohol
than the weekly mean of 12 beers.

Molly Terry, the student alcohol and drug counselor, believes other factors need to be analyzed to determine the seriousness of
those statistics. If that means students are drinking three beers in one hour when they go out, they are probably
going out with the unhealthy intention of drinking for the sole purpose of getting drunk. If, however, they space out
those 12 beers during the week, those drinkers may experience no problems.

Apparently, many Davidson students are under the incorrect impression that they drink less than other Davidson students. Fifty-six percent of
the polled students believe they consumed less alcohol than the average Davidsonian. Of those, fifty-three percent actually drink more beer
than the weekly mean. Eighty-three percent of the respondents were perfectly comfortable with the amount they generally drank at that
time. Finally, the majority of students surveyed thought that underclassmen drank more than upperclassmen.

One might expect students to downplay the problem of alcohol abuse at Davidson. Interestingly, the survey indicated that the vast
majority of students believe such a problem exists. Ninety-five per-

See "Survey" on page 4

Regarding Alcohol Related Problems
By Walter Price

In an attempt to promote better awareness about the problems of alcohol, four senior campus leaders sent out a letter
to every member of the Davidson student body asking them to think and act responsibly with alcohol. The letter was
aimed at freshmen, to make them aware about alcohol problems before they were allowed to attend Patterson Court parties. According
to Student Government Association President Cammie Covington, this project was begun by her and Patterson Court Council President Annie Adams.
The two of them had concerns about alcohol problems at Davidson and decided that a letter might increase awareness of
such problems. The two then asked John Howell and Sterling Freeman to help them compose the letter. According to Covington,
the two asked the help of Howell and Freeman to get the perspective of some males as well as a
student athlete. Howell and Freeman were willing to get involved. Freeman said, “I’ve personally been a victim

See “Letter” on page 4.

INSIDE
NEWS: Campus crime reports. See page 3.
OPINIONS: David Scott pens an ode to Autumn. See page 6.
ARTS: First Class Mail
Cabe Loring: sitting in the back row with his version of the classics. See page 7.
Richard Wharton on the balloon festival in Statesville. See page 10.
Kyle Kinner asks for your help in Washington D.C. See page 6.
CAMPUS LIVING: Whether it is nobler to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageously hackneyed titles for a column. See
page 10.
SPORTS: More Wildcat action! See page 12.

U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
