THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING - MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

YSSC Offers Service Opportunities

By Caroline Nelson

Each week The Davidsonian will spotlight several of the YSSC programs. This week the spotlight is on Arosa House, the Big Brother/Big Sister program, and CROP.

The Arosa House provides shelter and care for children who have been taken away from their parents by the court. This past weekend, volunteers joined together to help repair the house. In the fall, trips to Arosa House will be taken once a month. Come join us and help make Arosa House a more comfortable environment for the children. If you are interested or have any questions, please call Jennifer McLean at -6052, Janet Delery at -6036, or Rachel Thompson at -6551.

Participants in the Big Brother/Big Sister program work with children in the community on individual bases. Each student spends time with the child he or she is paired with. Students are not only role models, but also friends to their little sisters and brothers. Group activities are planned. If interested, please call Thomas Hazel at -6169, Lindsey Clarke at -6236, or for Big Sister, call Mandy Aycock at -6080, Rachel Epps at -6063, or Machelle Sweeting at -6603.

The purpose of CROP is to make people more aware of the world hunger problem. There is a CROP lunch every Thursday in the 900 Room from 11:30-2 where students and faculty can eat beans, cornbread, and rice for $1-2. The donations go to CROP. Preparations are being made for the 1991 CROP walk in the fall. For more information, call Lisa Sitek at -6424, or Elizabeth Whitehead at -6475.

This week The Davidsonian is introducing a new, syndicated comic strip, "NO EXIT". This strip had its debut about five years ago in the pages of the University of Arizona's Daily Wildcat, and has been a success ever since. It was chosen for national syndication in 1989. If you enjoy "NO EXIT", please notify a member of The Davidsonian staff, as we are deciding whether or not to make this strip a weekly feature.

BSHOULOMCNESDRINK BEERS

LGSER - No cholesterol!
- Allows one to conform to mindless peer pressure!
- Endorsed by Bob Uecker & Spuds
- Doesn't have oat bran.
- Might accidentally be drinking goat urine, unable to distinguish the taste from beer.
- Impairs ability to bulldozer

RADICAL NEW CHANGES

SOVIET

SIBERIAN DEATH CAMP PRISONERS GET TO WEAR BIG HAPPY FACE

Correct really that important