THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991 15

Volleyball Drops 2 On Charleston Swing

By Bruce Balestier

After turning in a solid 2-2 showing at the Virginia Commonwealth Tournament last weekend, the Davidson volleyball team came away
feeling pretty good about its 7-3 record. But complacency may have gotten the better of the Wildcats, as they hit
the skids abruptly with disappointing losses at Charleston Southern and The College of Charleston.

In Tuesday’s Big South matchup with the Buccaneers, Davidson rebounded from a two games to none deficit to knot the
match at two games all, only to collapse with a 15-7 loss in the deciding game. Coach Rebecca Hawkins was
somewhat surprised that the momentum from the ‘Cats’ swift 15-4 pasting of the Bucs in game 4 didn’t carry over
into game 5. It didn’t, and Davidson quickly found itself down 8-1 and never recovered. Hawkins found fault with her
team’s mental toughness. “We’re not mentally ready to fight,” she said. In addition, 8 service errors and 13 service receiving
errors spelled doom for the Wildcats. “That was the difference,” said Hawkins.

Amy Howard shone in defeat for the ‘Cats, recording 16 kills for a .457 hitting average without committing an error.
Janet Delery notched 14 kills and 11 digs.

But while the loss to Charleston Southern was not altogether surprising, since you would expect the occasional letdown over the
course of a long season, the defeat the following night at the hands of The College of Charleston was downright
disquieting. Hawkins had expected her team to be motivated by redemption, but instead watched them "come out flat.” Charleston romped
in three consecutive games, 10-15, 8-15, 12-15. It was an improved Davidson attack from the night before, but the uncharacteristic
parade of errors continued. The Wildcats turned in 6 service errors and 14 service receiving errors, and added 3 ball-handling
errors for good measure.

The team has come now to a critical juncture in its season, and, according to Hawkins, there are but two
options. “We can learn from it and turn it around or let it take control of us. And if it
does, our season is down the drain.” The intervening days until Davidson’s return to action Tuesday at Wingate could determine
the outcome of the season.

Cross Country Beats Heat

By Richard Wharton

Davidson harriers overcame adverse conditions September 14 to achieve several personal goals at the Clemson Invitational. The women’s team showed
their strength with a fourth place finish, scoring 108 points, while the men’s team as a whole performed well despite
several individual injuries.

Conditions for the day were hot and humid, which, combined with rolling terrain, challenged the runners’ personal limits. Though the
weather was a significant factor, coaches Gary Andrew and Beth Manson were pleased with the overall outcome.

Coming in first for Davidson was Kathy Beach, running a strong 19:35 to begin her senior season with a bang.
Half a minute behind her, sophomore Karen Marshall sprinted through the finish with an impressive 19:58. Freshman Elizabeth Bishop, in
her first intercollegiate meet, raced to a solid 20:43 at Clemson finish. Sophomore Jean DeMoss was next for the Wildcats,
running a consistent 21:37, which puts her in a strong position to move up in the upcoming weeks. Rounding out
the lady Wildcats were Amy Bertram (21:54), Carolyn Meadows (21:58) and Lisa Sitek (22:00).

The men’s race was a truly dramatic event. Both the men’s and women’s teams used mental exercises to augment their
physical preparation. This almost worked out too well, as half of the team posted dangerously fast first miles. Temperatures increased
as the race went on, putting an extra tax on the harriers’ bodies. At mile three senior Ted Richardson twisted
his ankle on a hard right turn, forcing him out of the race. But the final act of high drama
occurred at the finish line when sophomore Cam Dauler, recovering from illness, passed out at the finish line. Three hours
later, still recovering from heat exhaustion and dehydration, Dauler stated that he could not remember the last four miles of
the race. Nonetheless, he posted a very strong time of 29:16 over the 8K course.

Senior Chris Otrok led the Wildcats with a strong 27:36. Close behind him, junior Ian Stewart gutted it out for
a 27:56, keeping him within range of number one runner Otrok. Next was Dauler, followed by Richard Wharton, with a
very satisfying 29:22, and Erik McMichael with a 29:41. Rounding out the squad were runners Joe Beach (31:44) and Kevin
Wilson (33:05), both running their first intercollegiate meets for Davidson, and Greg Fisher with a 34:17.

Despite the meteorological setbacks, the team was very satisfied with its overall performance at Clemson.Wildcats return to action this Saturday
at the Charleston Southern Invitational.

Chapman Defies The Odds. Part 2
By Bruce Page

Chasen began playing competitively this summer in a league with college talent in his home state of Maryland, and began
to remove the critics’ doubts by hitting “ridiculously well.” He led his team with a .478 batting average and helped
them to a first-place finish in their division. Chapman was recruited by Davidson out of high school as a catcher.
In his freshman year, in fact, he started 50 of 52 games at catcher, playing solid defense and batting .280.
Now, though, catching may be too much of a strain for his foot; this summer he saw most of his
playing time at third and first base. Still, catching for the Wildcats remains a goal of his. He still dreams
of playing in the majors, and who knows? Chapman sets his goals, and things don’t seem to stop him. “When
you want something pretty bad... the pain doesn’t seem like all that much,” he says. “I was pretty set on
getting back to what I could do.”

Sprinkle Leads Women's Soccer Over G-W
By B'easy Helms

The Women’s Soccer team split a pair of games this week to emerge with a 2-2 record. On Monday, the
Wildcats dominated Gardner-Webb. Freshman Ellen Sprinkle continued to make a significant scoring impact, as she gained her first collegiate hat
trick. In the first half, she scored two goals, both of them assisted by Susan Taylor. Completing the first half,
Sprinkle felt like the “trash queen” because her goals were the result of Taylor’s hard work at bringing the ball
down the field. In the second half, she showed the fans her skills and scoring ability as she took on
several players in the box and completed her hat trick. Later in the second half, B’easy Helms crossed the ball
into Sally Graham. Graham shot, and after the goalie fumbled it, Helms finished the ball into the net.

Football Continued from page 14.

At the Rhodes 20 with 3:34 to play, facing a third and 19 situation, Howell threw to John Bodkin. Although
the pass was incomplete, Rhodes was whistled for pass interference and the ‘Cats had the ball at the Lynx 19.
Howell then picked up a first down with an 11-yard gain off a quarterback draw which put Davidson at the
Rhodes five-yard line. After an illegal procedure call, Bruce Bannister’s five-yard gain put the ‘Cats back on the Rhodes five-yard
line with 59 seconds in the game. On the ensuing play, Davidson was flagged for a false start and the
‘Cats were forced to operate from the 10 once again. Howell looked twice to Shirley and then to Bodkin on
fourth down, but was unable to hook up with either. Robinson needed only to take one snap and fall to
the ground to assure the Lynx of the victory.

After surrendering 130 yards of total offense in the opening quarter, Davidson’s defense tightened and allowed only 63 yards the
rest of the game. “I believe, without a doubt, that our defense played well enough to win,” Fagg said. “If
you give up 13 points a game, you'll win nine games out of 10.” “We were even all the way
but they were just a little bit better,” linebacker Chris Leak said. Bannister’s 111 yards on 20 carries and Howell’s
79 rushing yards led Davidson to 252 yards of total offense to 193 for Rhodes. Although the ‘Cats only held
the ball for 4:43 in the first quarter, they finished the game with 33:24 of possession and a sizeable advantage
over the visitors. The loss was a painful one, but the ‘Cats will have a chance to raise their record
to 2-2 this weekend at Emory and Henry. “We’re so thankful that we have a chance to play next Saturday,”
Fagg said.

To The Student Body of Davidson College: Thank You!
Coach Slagle & The Soccer Team
