6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Beyond Birkenstock: Yet another unsolicited dose of Neo-Fascist Drivel

Hey, did you read that jury selection for the trial of General Manuel (Pineapple-Face) Noriega has begun in Miami! Of
course you didn’t! You were too busy watching the Atlanta Braves and Jimmy Connors. Well, it turns out that questionnaires
given to potential jurors revealed that more than 60% believed they should just hang him. Our poll of the same
people disclosed that nearly 90% believed that Noriega should be released in exchange for Ted Kennedy. Hey, the Disciples couldn’t
believe it when the people asked for Barabbas either.

Speaking of Ted Kennedy, did you notice that liberals all over the country found something else to be pissed off
about? Wake up ye who need a cause, it’s almost Supreme Court Confirmation time again! In Washington, a commercial has
been running that asks the simple question “Who will judge the Judge?” Who indeed? Well, three of the senators on
the Senate Confirmation Committee have less than stellar track records. A couple of conservative groups took it upon themselves to
point out a few of Teddy’s faults (one of those being that little incident at Chappaquiddick), as well as Joe
Biden’s petty problems with doing original work and, to top it all off, they reminded the public that Sen. Alan
Cranston has been just a little less than ethical at times. Of course, these ads have already been deemed “inappropriate”
and “unprofessional.” There go those damn conservatives hitting liberals below the belt again with the truth; it’s Jesse Helms style
politics (for all of you unfamiliar with Helms’ history, Democrats resent that he “pulls out all the stops” and absolutely
abhor the fact that they can’t beat him!).

If you’ll turn “off” the selective memory switch and think back to when someone named Robert Bork was up for
nomination to the Supreme Court, a justification for this conservative action emerges. If you will recall, as we most certainly
do, a massive liberal assault against Bork was launched. A main weapon in this assault was TV ad campaigns showing
why certain groups opposed Bork. These ads were full of exaggerations and half-truths. Bork was hardly the anti-Christ the ads
made him out to be. However, this campaign turned the populace against Bork and was the catalyst behind his rejection.
Of course, a lot of you probably remember this rejection period happily but, our point is that the conservatives must
feel that you have got to fight these firestarters with a flamethrower. Rather than sit idly by and allow the
battle for Thomas’ nomination to become a political affair similar to Bork’s, they have decided to fight back.

Well, it’s a new year and everyone has something to bitch about. So, I figured I’d take some of my
valuable study time so I could waste some of your valuable study time and whine a little. (Note the neat
bold typeface that makes the article easier to read.)

Freshmen: Boy am I glad I’m not you guys. Last year I had a blast partying every night with those
evil upperclassmen. Unfortunately, when my parents received my grades, my Christmas was about as much fun as Humes. Don’t worry
though, you’ll be able to get as drunk as you want every weekend after September.

A wayward youth writes in the tradition of Rude Notes & Random Scribblings

The Soviet Union: Great, now what do we do. No longer can we fight those evil commie bastards, chasing the
little red devils to all corners of the Earth. I mean, the last forty years of our history have essentially
been a waste. We don’t even have a reason to build that cool Star Wars defense system anymore.Bork’s, Conservatives Depth,
Relevance! On the Wonders of Campus Construction and Cool Fresh Rules

To everything there is a season, etc. You’ve heard it. Old news. At the Davidson of Today, we cast the
poo-pooers aside for this is the season for everything. A Thor has risen among us. Nail gun sparkling above his
Cushman-mounted minions, he rumbles: "Mow it and we will build." (Chant with me please) Dorms, parking lots, bricks, hay-hay. Dorms,
parking lots, bricks, hurray! (chorus) BRING MORE BRICKS I SEE SOME GRASS! (repeat).

I say, thank God! Grass stains pants. It turns toes green, and probably does nothing positive for the cork of
one's Birkenstocks. Spiders grow there. Yuk! And grass clippings make my mother’s cousin’s best friend’s uncle sneeze like hell. And
trees! Trees dent fenders, and where they grow one simply cannot park. Furthermore, the Physical Plant has assured me that
the oxygen no longer being produced by all the green things rubbed out in the past two years will be
more than made up by the grass now growing on what used to be the track. Moreover, the kind man
informed me that anyone attempting to trench the track will have hell to pay.

I ask the scoffers, would you not rather live in a furnished apartment than a tent? I know I prefer
brick walkways to mud. Our leaders today will fix it—Fix it! Fix it! Fix it! And do they rest on
the laurels of matériel success? No! These liberal arts graduates recognize the value of a human soul, especially one belonging
to an Upperclassman. And damned if they don’t plan to fix that, too.

Quiet please for the reading of David "Pundit" Scott the Fresh Rules: Eh-Hem—Freshmen Shall Not Encumber Nor Attempt To Suck
Entertainment Out Of Upper Classmen In Any Way Off Campus or On Up Town or Down Inside Nor Out Until
The Sniveling Immature Little Vapid Babies Bond—Eh-Hem—DAMMIT! Freshmen are so STUPID! They are idiots. Morals? Ha! They wouldn’t know their
ethical butt from their ankle. I met a freshman once who... oh, never mind, but have sent out the proverbial
warning shot.

Indeed, these same conservatives have said that they’ll stop the ad campaign if People for the American Way calls off
its planned multimillion-dollar ad plan to paint Thomas up in Bork’s clothing. However, if Ted Kennedy and his drones intend
to turn these nomination hearings into a circus again, conservatives are willing to start a sideshow of their own. Of
course, all of this action is deplorable and totally unnecessary, but try telling that to P. for the A. W.,
NOW and, for that matter, The National Right to Life organization. The point is that the Supreme Court and these
confirmations are not supposed to be political arenas. This is the underlying lesson behind the conservative ad campaign. To bring
up three senators' shady pasts that everyone, presumably, already knows about is as inappropriate as deciding on a Supreme Court
nomination based on political grounds. Let’s hope the slings and arrows of outrageous advertisements stop here, and that Judge Thomas
can be judged, as our forefathers intended, on his qualifications alone.

Believe me, he was dumb as R-O-C-K-S (I don’t want to offend any of them, you see). My goodness, but
they know nothing! And for so long simply ignored. We just let ’em run wild, pestering Upper Classmen as they
pleased, breathing our air. We're safe now, though. For one month at least, they can’t touch us. Maybe, God knows
I doubt it, but maybe, by then, they’ll at least use active verbs.

Davidson has evolved so much since I arrived on campus four years ago (yes, four years. I’m taking my sweet
time). The place was such a simple town then. Nauseating. Easy-going, vacuous. Food Lion was just across the street next
to Cornwell Drugs. People needed never leave the little burg. Just buy food, drink tap water, and slowly rot away.
And the children, Oh! the children, they swarmed like mad lemmings with nary a speeding car come by to prune
the screaming weeds. And I confess; when I was a freshman, I tormented my elders. Upper Class hand, won’t you
guide me. Wise hand, lead me. Oh hand, hand, are you twenty-one? I should have been shot. Thank you, Leaders,
for squirreling such infantilism away. I can only ask, if I may, that more be done. Unfathomably, some freshmen turn
into Seniors, and some of them into people. I fear for the moral future of our nation.

We See “Rules” on page 7
