16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW With Sports Illustrated Staff Writer Nicholas Dawidoff

By David Smyth

Sports Illustrated staff writer Nicholas Dawidoff spoke in the 900 Room last Monday on writing for the magazine and writing prose in general. Some of these questions have been taken from the question and answer session following his speech, and those are marked with asterisks.

Davidsonian: What has been the most enjoyable story for you to research for the magazine?

Dawidoff: There have been several that have been a lot of fun. It was really fun to go to Costa Rica. I spent time in the rainforest there. I did a story about a man who used to be a graduate student in physics at the University of Texas. He left Texas and abandoned his life in the United States and went to Costa Rica, determined to learn as much as he can about rainforests before there aren’t rainforests anymore. And he climbs up into trees with pulleys that he’s created and he sits up in this sort of harness that he has with cans of tuna and a backpack. He eats tuna and sits up there all day and watches the ones around him and takes notes. He’s pretending to write sort of this comprehensive book on the rainforest and he let me go up on his ropes and try it; it was pretty fun.

Davidsonian: Has your education at Harvard directly or indirectly affected the way you write for Sports Illustrated? How does your history and literature background come to bear on the research you do and the ideas you get?

Dawidoff: I gather what you’re asking is what is the direct applicability of a college education to the work I’m doing, or do you mean specifically where I went to college?

Davidsonian: Answer in terms of direct applicability.

Dawidoff: I would say that at Harvard you have what is called the core curriculum, which requires that you take courses in a really eclectic array of disciplines. You learn about a great many different things, and many of those specific things you’re not going to remember. For instance, there’s a course on the Black Plague, and unless you want to become a specialist on the Black Plague, you know this course is not going to have any direct bearing on what you do, or it’s unlikely at some point. But what my perception of a college education is and what I’m really grateful for and what I think it does is it teaches you to think. I mean, yes, you learn many specifics, you learn lots of facts, but more you’re really learning how to think analytically. You’re learning how to approach material and how to consider ideas from as many perspectives as possible. That’s the hardest thing in life when you are a citizen is to see things as many ways as possible, see things the way any number of other people might see them.

Davidsonian: How much editing do you do on your own stories before you submit them to the magazine?

Dawidoff: I don’t know. I mean, I edit it until I think it’s perfect and should not be changed at all. If I submit it I think it’s there, and if I think it’s not there, then I work on it some more. Hence, I’m always irritated when something’s changed.

Davidsonian: Do you try to funnel your stories to certain editors or do you even have a choice over who reads your material?

Dawidoff: Well, each editor has certain bailiwicks, and so we have a college football editor, a pro football editor, a baseball editor, an environment editor. These people have their own jurisdictions. I work a lot with one guy who’s called the articles editor. He edits the story which we have in the back of the magazine which is ten to twelve pages long. I enjoy working with him. But it is a news magazine, and you have to be prepared to work with anybody, whatever your assignment is. We also have higher editors who are responsible for what we’re doing. There’s one assistant managing editor who’s in charge of all the writers. I report to him, so to speak, and I report to the managing editor. What we call managing editor is what most newspapers call editor-in-chief.

Davidsonian*: The nature of your job seems that it would require a good deal of travel. You’ve spoken some about a sense of place in your writing. Do you ever get tired of all the traveling you have to do?

Dawidoff: Yeah, we have to travel too much. It gets really lonely in these big hotels, when you’re there for so long. Earlier in the summer, I started in Pittsburgh and spent a week in this hotel there. And sure enough, the Minnesota Twins won fifteen games in a row or something and the Pirates lost every game that week. So I called New York and they said, “Oh, they’ll be fine next week, just go on with them to California and cover them.” So I had to go out to Los Angeles for another ten days, and I’m just following this baseball team, spending every day talking to Pittsburgh Pirate baseball players who are very sick of me and never want to see me around because they’ve started losing as soon as I showed up. And baseball players are very superstitious. You know, I am fortunate that the friends that I have from college are spread out all across the country, so generally you get the chance to see people. Sure, I mean, it wears on you after a while but it’s also really nice. I’m not married yet and I’m curious about all these places, so it’s fun to experience them. There are only so many times you can go to these places before it really does become work. For me it’s really exciting to go to a new place. I always look forward to it. And, because of my job I’mLiving in New York City, which I don’t consider my home, so to speak. I’d prefer to live in a smaller place. In that respect, yeah, it’s my house, but it’s not the place I’m most attached to.

Davidsonian: How does one go about getting a job on a magazine like Sports Illustrated?

Dawidoff: I was really, really lucky. The way it worked for me was I was actually admitted to graduate school and I was going to go study English literature. But I woke up one day in July after I had graduated from college and I was supposed to be doing this, and I just didn’t want to go. I really wanted to be a writer; I just felt it. And, I didn’t want to be a teacher; it just wasn’t what I wanted to do. And you have to know my family, but this was startling news. The first thing my mother said was, “Well, you're not staying here.” And, so, I told you I’m from New Haven, so I went down to Yale to the library and I got the addresses of lots of publications. I had spent a summer interning at Boston magazine, and I called up the guy who I had worked for there. I just told him this was something I was thinking about doing and he asked, “Well, if you could work anywhere, where would you work?” And I said, “Sports Illustrated.” He said, “Obviously you can’t do that now, so you should try to get yourself a job on a newspaper.” So I was going about doing it, but just for the hell of it, he said, “Call Walter Bingham.” Walter Bingham, senior editor, helped me get an interview with the chief of reporters. She had me write a sample story which I wrote on the Boston Marathon. She called me back the next week and said that I had a job. People ask a lot about how you get jobs in journalism, and it’s just impossible to expect, especially during a recession, that everybody would have that kind of luck. One experience that in many ways I regret not having is writing for one of the many really good newspapers in this country where you get the opportunity to write like crazy. Actually, a friend of mine who became a very good journalist started out in New Hampshire with a tiny little newspaper, and she traveled around six towns every day just writing whatever story there was. And anything’s really a story; anything’s interesting. Those are all really good places to start. All anybody cares about at a magazine like Sports Illustrated or Time or anywhere else is that you like to write and that you do it well. And the only way to do it well is to do it lots and lots and lots and lots and lots. So, that’s it. I know that’s not much of a revelation, but if you decide to be a writer, you’re a writer. You just have to keep making yourself do it over and over again. I can’t tell you how frustrated I was my first couple of years at Sports Illustrated, because I was the kid. I would write and write and no one would pay attention to me, but I just loved to do it, and I guess I just kept doing it and it worked out. So I think the same must be true for most people who do that.

Davidsonian: What happens if you can’t get a quotation all the way down or you can’t read what you’ve written?

Dawidoff: Oh, I just make it up. No, if I don’t think I have exactly what they said I wouldn’t put it down. Do you mean if I get lost? I don’t write something down unless I have what my sense tells me is the quotation. There was a Supreme Court case about this this year which established that you can change a quotation as long as you don’t change the meaning of it. I would be dishonest if I told you that every journalist probably doesn’t change quotations a little bit. The only way that I would change a quotation is if someone had an obscenity, I might change the obscenity because I can’t use it otherwise. You might change punctuation, things like that. If someone says something, that seems to me fact; that is what they said and it’s my job to put that down, whether I like it or not. It doesn’t seem to me to be much of an argument. What you say is what you say.

Davidsonian: Do you have much of a problem with athletes that are hostile to reporters?

Dawidoff: I would say, by and large, baseball players are the most difficult. Basketball players are a dream to work with. But there are great people in baseball, too. Phil Plantier, the Red Sox young rookie, was eating a huge plate of Chinese food, and he said, “Let’s go talk outside where no one will bother us.” That never happens; they all want to talk where they’re around each other and stuff. So we go outside, and he offers me some. Never happens. Bo Jackson won’t talk to Sports Illustrated because one of our writers long ago wrote something nasty about him. My experience with him was at spring training and I didn’t know this. So he just sort of made fun of me; which is very easy to do when he’s sitting around all of his teammates and anything he says is funny. So, there’s stuff like that, too. Generally, it’s fine. They’re making so much money in part because they’re getting so much press coverage. They’re not fools; they know that. It’s sort of a reciprocal situation.

Davidsonian: Do you like the Braves or the Dodgers?

Dawidoff: Oh, I don’t know. I hope the Braves win, but I’d go with the Dodgers. Am I supposed to say that here?