4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

Diplomats Address Soviet Economic and Political Issues

By Laura Malenas

Last Thursday and Friday, Feb. 28 and 29, two Soviet diplomats visited Davidson to speak on political and economic issues
facing the Soviet Union. Mr. Andrey Vasilyev, an attache at the Soviet Mission to the United Nations specializing in economic
and environmental issues, and Mr. Rashid Khalikov, the First Secretary at the Soviet Mission to the UN, addressed students and
faculty on two different occasions. The first session was devoted to Soviet economic reforms. The following day, Khalikov and Vasilyev
spoke on current political issues in the Soviet Union.

The two diplomats spoke freely about the difficult challenges that their country must face and they were anxious to answer
students’ questions about the deteriorating Soviet economy. Vasilyev explained that the difficulties of transition are so much more apparent now
because the whole idea of perestroika is no longer just a political slogan. Putting perestroika into practice is a painful
process. The Soviet parliament is now debating how to promote entrepreneurship in a country totally unaccustomed to private ownership and
consumer-goods production. Soviet citizens have never had to take any economic initiative and now the population is resistant to the
difficult changes that perestroika will cause. Vasilyev even joked that most Soviets picture fat men surrounded by bags of money
when the ideas of capitalism and private ownership are mentioned. Resistant or not, Vasilyev said that even the most conservative
elements of the populace acknowledge that the old system of a centralized command economy does not work. The real debate
is how reforms should be implemented and how they can be most effectively reinforced by political legislation.

To achieve a socialized market economy, Vasilyev outlined some basic principles of economic reform. These included that all forms of
ownership be protected through legislation, freedom of individual and industrial economic must be encouraged and direct government ownership must end.
Vasilyev also explained the need for the Soviet economy to be integrated into the global economy.

During Friday’s discussion of political issues, Mr. Khalikov addressed the most urgent issue facing his country: the future of the
Union. Khalikov explained that the relationship between the republics and the central government must be defined. Khalikov expressed his feeling
that any republic which wants to become independent should be allowed to do so. However, economic ties between the republics
and the center make a quick separation impossible. Khalikov felt that a civilized way of divorce should take place gradually,
keeping the interests of the center and the republic in mind.

Gulf Continued from Page 3

...tinually made clear that civilians were not their targets. Maydole cites the “disputed case” of a “bunker which housed many
civilians, but which the Allies contended was a command and control facility,” as insufficient evidence to suggest that the Allies
engaged in “indiscriminate” bombing. Maydole concludes the argument documented in his list by saying that the war in the gulf
was legitimate because its primary end was to achieve justice.

These points inspired discussion as to the nature of justice as it relates to one’s perception of events. Ambassador Jack
Perry, Director of Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program in International Studies added, that in the eyes of most Americans, “the just
wars are the wars we’ve won.” Perry said that the coalition forces “went too far along the way” regarding the
magnitude of force employed. “I think we bombed more than we had to in order to decimate Iraq instead of
protecting our troops,” he said.

In regard to post-war relations with the Arab world, Ellen Ott pointed to the growth of racist attitudes among Americans
as a result of the hostilities. She cited, specifically, General Schwarzkopf’s statement that the people who tortured the Kuwaitis were
not of the same human race as the rest of us as detrimental to racial harmony. Anjali Sharma added that
several friends of hers of Indian descent at other schools have been mistaken for Iraqis and harassed. Economics professor, Dennis
R. Appleyard noted that the United States was in for a long-term commitment towards the rebuilding of Kuwait which will
have a substantial effect upon economic activity in the US. Near the end of the discussion, Dr. William K. Mahony
of the Religion department stated that Saddam Hussein may very well be viewed in the Arab world in the...same way
that Americans responded to the protagonist of the original Rocky film. Mahony stated that Americans absolutely loved the Rocky character
because, even though he lost the title fight, he gambled everything he had in order to challenge the world champion.
Saddam, Mahony claimed, may be seen in a similar light by the Iraqi people. The discussion closed with an expression
of hope on the part of many participants that the actions in the Gulf will help to promote a lasting
peace. Of particular significance to the group was the United Nations’ approval of the use of force, and the group
felt that this consultation of the U.N. will set a positive historical precedent.

To avoid civil war, Khalikov stressed peaceful, constructive dialogue to achieve some type of union or to achieve separation, with
all negative consequences minimized. Khalikov felt that Lithuania and Georgia, the states with the strongest independence movements, were heading towards
a confrontation that could only develop into civil war. Khalikov expressed his feeling that the militant push for independence by
these two republics was not helping their cause. The Soviets believe that still more time is needed to work out
an adequate compromise. Khalikov was also confident that Mikhail Gorbachev will be leading the transition of the country from the
old Soviet Union to a newly defined federation. Khalikov explained that Gorbachev’s potential has not been exhausted and that he
has no rival that equals his leadership ability. Gorbachev still seems the best choice for the future. The excellent relationship
between Gorbachev and President Bush also adds to Gorbachev’s power. The war in the Persian Gulf only strengthened the relationship
between the two leaders and increased their confidence in each other. Khalikov pointed out how now our two countries can
work harmoniously toward common goals. Together the Soviets and the Americans can create and preserve a peaceful new world order.

After the discussion, keynote speaker Khaled Al Koor, a 1987 Davidson alumnus, told the group about his experiences in Kuwait
at the time of the original Iraqi invasion last August. In his remarks, he touched on several issues raised during
the conference, specifically the position of Palestinians in Kuwait. His comments added a more realistic dimension to the conference, as
he depicted, first hand, the events of the invasion.

HELP WANTED

Would you like to work for yourself? Would you like to set your own hours? Are you self-motivated? Are you
a bit of an entrepreneur? If you answered YES to all of the above, you are just the person we're
looking for! Many of our representatives stay with us long after graduation. For more information, call or write us at
the following address: Seattle, WA 98118-4107

Crime
By Tom Koonce

Car break-ins head the list of crimes committed at Davidson during February. Copeland House parking lot, on the corner of
Main Street and Griffith Street, had the most car break-ins during the past month. One of the first incidents occurred
between February 2nd and February 9th. The owner of a Ford Mustang reported that a set of golf clubs and
a bag were stolen from his car. Besides the clubs, a Yamaha amplifier was also taken.

Between 7:30 pm February 8th and 9:46 am February 9th, another car parked at Copeland was robbed. Scott Douglas reported
that a radar detector was taken from his car. A hat and cassette tapes were also taken, but they were
left beside the car. Police believe that the car was entered by opening a door through the left rear window
vent of the Buick Regal. In another incident at this parking lot, a rear spoiler of a Ford was taken
between 12:45 pm and 6:00 pm. Bricks were piled beside the vehicle. There was no evidence of forced entry into
his car.

Director of Public Safety Ray Thrower said that, “If you see any strangers in the Copeland Parking Lot, please let
us (the police) know.” He also advised people to lock valuables in their trunk.

In dorm-related crimes, a guitar was taken from a room in Belk but was later recovered. A bike was also
taken out of Belk, but it was not recovered. If you have any information about any of the above incidents,
please contact the police.

Main Street Cafe (Downtown Mooresville)
Fiesta Nights every Thursday, Friday, and Saturday - 9:00 p.m.
Extended Mexican Menu
Thursday, March 7, 1991 from 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.
Music provided by Jack Lawrence and Lenny Federal
(704) 664-9787 for more information and reservations
