10 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

Reviews

CD: Phish: Lawn Boy, Capital Records
By Joe Binns

I can’t tell you a lot about the history of Phish. All I know is what Leslie J. has told me. They are from Vermont and have a large following up on the northern college circuit. They’ve put out two albums on their own label, the most recent being Lawn Boy, and their drummer, dressed as Captain Zero, has been known to play an old-style Electrolux vacuum in concert. And while this may seem a little odd, it is well within the bounds of normalcy for Phish.

Their music is an aggressive blend of jazz and rock very reminiscent of Frank Zappa. The four-man band is a group of musical over-achievers, and their product is steeped in theory and technique. It is as improvisational as improvisation can sound on an album, and even after hearing certain tunes ten or twelve times, they can still manage to lose you. I would venture to guess that, though the bulk of their tunes are played from the hip, there is a good chunk of reading going on. Every one of the ten tunes on Lawn Boy has sections way too complex to be played without notation. They frequently change time signatures, syncopated melodies jerk a listener off balance. Make sure you are seated when you first hear this group.

The lyrics are nonsensical. The following is a typical sample. It is from Bathtub Gin:

Where is the Joker?
Have you seen him around with his three-coned hat
That he wears like a crown
Have you seen his striped stockings and heard his sad tales
About the kids under the carpet and the purple humpbacked whales.

That’s as normal as it gets. For musicians of Phish’s caliber and creativity, there are a lot of doors open, and the best thing about this band is that they go through a different one every time. Fee, the story of a Buddhist weasel in love, has a tropical color. My Sweet One is convincingly western. Split Open and Melt is a sublime jazz funk. But these guys don’t just sample styles, they have created their own and display it ferociously in Reba, Run Like an Antelope, and The Squirming Coil. Descriptions of these styles would take at least another three or four paragraphs, and I have to get a plug in for the IPC [Editor’s note: Intimate Performances Committee] before I can do any Spring Frolicking. Just buy the disc and check it out. You won’t regret it if you have any affinity for jazz or creative progressive music.

SHORT SHOW REVIEW
Colonel Bruce Hampton and the Aquarium Rescue Unit, 900 Room, 4/6/91

Once again Brad Reddick, a.k.a. Guitarzan, (working on a hint from a very dear and rhythmic friend) did this campus incredibly right, and only a few musically on-the-ball students took advantage of it. No one in the 900 Room last Saturday will ever be quite the same after Colonel Bruce. A great show full of jazz/blues like you’ve never seen, unless, of course, you saw the Unit in Charlotte the last time he was there. I’ve seen this band a few times before, and I assure you they were in rare form Saturday night. Bassist O’Teal said that the Colonel really loved the room, its character and size, and especially the sound system. This made me very proud of our dear old alma mater. The Colonel himself, who insisted on calling me Wayne, slurringly gave us his personal seal of approval. The group did a couple of Dead covers, a couple of traditional blues tunes, unique and highly creative and theatrical solos, but mostly just rocked old Unit tunes like “Arkansas” and “Donkey Song.” My condolences to those who missed it, and let this be a warning to you. IPC is under new management next year, and don’t let the opportunities that they create pass you by. Two ambitious and knowledgeable youths, Sweet Pete Jackson and Chris Hoveland, have taken over and are working on bringing you the aforementioned Phish (missing this show, if it materializes, should result in expulsion), Stream of Consciousness, getting Taj Mahal back, and many other treats. Eat them; they’ll be good for you.

Ed the Head’s Boot O’ the Week: Los Angeles, 11\11\67. Set 1.

Restaurant: Munching At Manzetti's
By Jeff Revis and Preston Yarborough

Variety is the spice of life. From the outskirts of Mooresville to the innards of Charlotte, the Davidsonian Restaurant Review Team keeps a watchful eye for yet another unheard-of eating experience. On the advice of this week’s guest critic, Preston Yarborough, we headed into Charlotte in search of Frank Manzetti’s Bar and Grill. Steve Sturm, an avid fan of Manzetti’s, also wanted to come along and provided transportation. We headed down I-77 toward Charlotte. Taking the Tyvola exit, we turned left at the light and headed east on Tyvola. About 15 minutes and seven lights later, we arrived at Southpark Mall. Driving through the tunnel which runs under the mall, we emerged on the other side. We turned right, then left onto Morrison Boulevard immediately afterwards. Manzetti’s was in the little shopping center on the corner to our left, beside the Park Hotel. Preston said there were lots of great cars in the parking lot. Both Steve and Preston had already been to Manzetti’s several times, but I didn’t know what to expect. From the first glance in the huge windows of this indoor cafe, I could tell that Manzetti’s was tailored to the Davidson student who would like to practice his or her yuppy skills before leaving college. Manzetti’s Bar and Grill could be renamed Manzetti’s Bar and Polo Outlet. Even our waitress with the great eyes wore a white Polo with hergreen tartan Polo tie. When she asked if we wanted anything to order, we got into the mood of the restaurant and answered, “Yup.”

As we waited for the appetizers, I took the opportunity to look around. The atmosphere was one of style. Open and airy with its high ceilings, miles of windows, and brass railings, Manzetti’s is certainly “California Dreaming” as a picture on the wall suggests. We especially liked the moose head near the bar. Preston said the mountain goats’ heads on the wall reminded him of home.

Our appetizers came. Preston and I got the onion-ring loaf and Steve got the potato soup. Those with heart conditions may want to stay away from this greasy treat. Steve liked the homestyle soup. Next came the salad, which came topped with an interesting house “honey-mustard” dressing. Instead of a roll, croissants were served. Our tea was refilled, actually replaced, whenever it dipped below the halfway mark. (Manzetti’s is the type of restaurant which replaces every fork or glass you use during the whole meal.)

The steak came next. When I heard the name Manzetti’s, I naturally thought of Italian food. This is definitely a steak house. Preston and Steve wouldn’t let me order anything but the house specialty. Each vouched for the Mama Manzetti’s Chicken, which was very similar to cordon bleu with melted Monterey Jack and ham on top. I opted for the filet mignon, which was pretty reasonable at $12.95. Preston decided on the 17-ounce Kansas Strip and Steve got the 22-ounce Pittsburgh Cut. The restaurant suggests that everyone order their steak a little more well-done than usual because all the steaks run rare. Preston and I really enjoyed our steaks which were slightly blackened on the outside and delicately pink in the center. Steve couldn’t decide whether to spit out his steak or swallow it, but said that he’d had good steaks all the other times he had come to Manzetti’s. The fettuccini alfredo that came with our steaks was fantastic.

Save room for dessert if possible. Steve and I had the chocolate mousse pie and Preston chose the Kentucky Derby Pie, which was an ice cream pie topped with peanut butter. Both were extremely good. Overall, Manzetti’s Bar and Grill is a very good restaurant and earned a four-star rating on our scale of five. The decor was good and the steaks are excellent. The service was exemplary. We recommend the restaurant for semi-formals and Saturday nights on the town. The prices were reasonable, ranging from $4 sandwiches to $15 steaks.

Concert: Grateful Dead: In Greensboro, NC
By Chip Petree

On March 31 and April 1, the Grateful Dead returned to Greensboro Coliseum after two years on their Spring Tour 1991. The band was returning to the area for the first time since they played in Raleigh this summer, and thus it was the first time in this area since the death of keyboardist Brent Mydland. The shows were everything people expected them to be. The carnival atmosphere in the parking lot of the Coliseum was less restricted than in Charlotte in the fall of 1989, and the crowd was allowed to celebrate the occasion pretty much as they pleased. However, the parking lot scene was merely a prelude to the two shows.

The Easter Show was considered by some to be a Bruce Hornsby spectacular. The first set began with Mississippi Half-Step Uptown Toodledoo that featured Hornsby, followed by Wang Dang Doodle and Friend of the Devil. The first set also included West L.A. Fadeaway, Cassidy, and a closing Might as Well. Following the intermission was Samson and Delilah and Eyes of the World before Drums/Space. The Eyes was almost 25 minutes long and featured two immense solos by Hornsby on his grand piano and former Tubes’ keyboardist Vince Welnick on the keyboards. The set concluded with Playin’ in the Band, The Wheel, Around and Around, and a scorching Johnny B. Goode, instigated by guitarist Bob Weir. For the encore, the band played a mellow but sort of cheesy Knockin’ On Heaven’s Door.

The April Fool’s concert was considered by most to be the best of the two. Jack Straw led off the first set, followed by Peggy-O, All Over Now, Candyman, Tom Thumb Blues, Picasso Moon, and Bird Song. All of these tunes sounded excellent (as the Dead always do), but the real excitement came in the second set. China Cat Sunflower/I Know You Rider opened the set, followed by Looks Like Rain. The strength of Weir’s voice and Jerry Garcia’s guitar playing worked in perfect harmony on this last tune. Still, the crowd in the Coliseum could sense that something special was going to happen, and it did on the next song when the band played Dark Star. This rare treat mesmerized the entire audience (except for the fifteen-year-old Caboose fans behind me) and set the stage for the entire night. To close out the set from the night before, Black Peter, (Turn on Your) Lovelight, and encored with Baby Blue.

Needless to say, the two shows were quite exhilarating and exhausting. The parking lot scene continued on into the night after both shows, with many people commemorating the Dark Star event. One glaring difference between these shows and those of a year ago is the absence of Brent Mydland. The Dead have successfully replaced him with the (sometimes) duo of Welnick and Hornsby, who sound like they’ve been playing together since birth. Maybe the Grateful Dead has found a permanent solution to their keyboard position. Hopefully, the chemistry of the part-time Hornsby and the full-time Welnick will keep the Dead rocking for years to come.

Keep your writing skills sharp and write for The Davidsonian in the Fall!