THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

Talk Show Hosts Verbally Abuse Homeless
By Tom Koonce

The following is part of the transcript between Beth Mitchell and the WCNT 1480 AM morning talk show hosts Brad McGuffin and Matt Clark:

McGuffin: Beth, good morning. My name is Mark McGuffin. Now, I am a Cornelite. I live just across the tracks over there in Cornelius from you in Davidson. To the best of my knowledge, there is not a great homeless situation in the twin cities of Davidson and Cornelius, but in Charlotte, you got more panhandlers than you can shake a stick at. Now, why don’t y’all get a bus or something like that and go sleep down on Tryon Street or something like that.

Mitchell: Well, if we had the time and resources, we would try and do that, but...

McGuffin: Well, you want to make a statement, right?

Mitchell: Right.

McGuffin: You want to get channel nine, channel three, channel thirty-six. That, I mean, that’s, let’s think about this, you know, up there in Davidson, it’s going to be more like an outdoor slumber party with a bunch of kids who are going to skip class the next day ‘cause they’re so groggy from staying up and drinking cheap wine and cigarettes and stuff.

Mitchell: Umm, I hope not.

McGuffin: Well, I mean, I was in college, I mean daggone, you know, whenever we spent the night out on the grass, it was usually passed out or in some other, uh, fun thing, and I mean, I’m not saying it’s not going to draw attention to it but, uh, you know...

Clarke: It’s 8:47, our guest is Beth Mitchell. She’s a publicist for the student service organization for Davidson College, and this coming Wednesday, they are planning a big sleep out to add awareness, to heighten awareness for the homeless problem. My question, Beth, is that, this is in all sincerity, I’m being completely honest and don’t take it the wrong way, but why not just give these people a, aah, what’s the term I’m looking for, a copy of the classified ads and find these people a job.

McGuffin: They don’t want to work, Matt.

Clarke: Well, I know they don’t want to work, but instead of sleeping out, those people are choosing to sleep out. I know for a fact because I lived in New York in the summer of ’89 and dealt with a lot of panhandlers every day on the way to work. I took the subway down to Wall Street every morning and I dealt with these people, and a lot of them make thirty to fifty a year, panhandling. My question is why not, instead of sleeping out and mimicking their behavior, why not give these people an opportunity and give them a job, find them a job instead of sleeping out on the grass at Davidson.

Mitchell: Well, we have two committees on campus that are for hunger awareness and for homelessness, and they are involved with organizations in Charlotte that actually try and do that. They try and give these people job skills, they try and teach them how to read, and provide daycare for them if they have children and need to go to work. We have people involved with all those specific things. Personally, from my point of view, I think there are a percentage of people out there that are truly homeless. I mean, I know people who have worked with them and been on the streets with them. I know that they actually experience this problem, and those are the people that we are trying to reach. I don’t think we are trying to reach the vacationers. We’re trying to reach the truly homeless.

(Beth went on to explain about the various different days of ‘Into the Streets.’)

McGuffin or Clarke: Now, do you have a day targeted to go down to the Greyhound Station on Trade Street and talk to some of those bums that hang out down there?

Mitchell: No, we didn’t have time to plan stuff like that.

McGuffin: Let me give you an example, Beth. I work at another radio station on the weekends here in town as, I hate this term, as a disc jockey, sounds like some kind of contagious disease. Anyway, I went in Saturday...morning and I got there at five-thirty in the morning and the station is in downtown Charlotte. At five-thirty in the morning, I pulled into the parking lot and here’s some bum panhandling me out of money. Now, to keep him from beating his head against the door for four hours while I’m on the air in that radio station, I gave him a handful of change to get him off my back.

Clarke: Loser.

McGuffin: Well, my point being that, you know, it's nice to be on the front lawn at Davidson. I hope the weather cooperates, but daggone it, you got to get down here into the “Queen City” where we’ve got a lot of homeless people and make your point down here, I think. And maybe you could get one of these TV types to hang out with you and do one of those human interest stories that they like to do so well.

Mitchell: Well, we’ll take that into consideration. Like I said, we have committees that plan activities all year long. But we have to start small, and knowing this time of year with students, we’re trying to be realistic and actually get people that will come out.

McGuffin: Well, I can understand that.

Clarke: Beth, are you a student at Davidson?

Mitchell: Yes, I’m a senior.

Clarke: Well, where are you from?

Mitchell: I’m from York, South Carolina.

McGuffin: Down York way, that’s great. Beth, thanks for your time this morning.

Mitchell: Oh, you’re welcome.

(McGuffin and Clarke hung up with Mitchell and then explained why Mitchell was interviewed.)

Clarke: So Mark, if you’re driving home, back to Cornelius Wednesday night, don’t freak out if you see five or ten people in khakis, button-downs, and blue blazers and Weeguns and no socks sleeping all over the lawn. There probably hasn't been a murder, don’t forget this is a sleep out.

McGuffin: Yeah, I think I’m going to go streaking. I think I’m going to streak through the quad, man, at Davidson.

Clarke: Oh, what a crock, man, what a crock.

McGuffin: Davidson is a fine institution. I wish that more schools were like Davidson. They really have good academic standards up there.

Clarke: But what a crock, though. The way to help the homeless is to, in my opinion...

McGuffin: Hit them in the head?

Clarke: ...is to help them get a job.

McGuffin: No, my opinion is to just give them a little money and they’ll go away.

Clarke: That’s the short-term solution.

McGuffin: Well, that’s the only solution, it’s the practical solution.

Clarke: I was speaking about New York a second ago, when I was living up there. I was new in town. For about the first three or four weeks, the topic in the office was always bums and my astonishment at their audacity to beg for money. And, finally, one of the guys who had been in New York, lived in Jersey, and was actually born in Jersey and had lived in New York all his life said, “Man, you actually give these people money.” And that was the first step to becoming, I guess, a New Yorker, was to completely ignore the bums because if you have what it takes to walk by these guys and Mark, I’m not kidding, some of these people were just plain pitiful...

McGuffin: Well, they are pitiful...

Clarke: We’re talking nasty, dirty, living on the sidewalks.

McGuffin: ...but Matt, this is not New York, this ain’t no party, this ain’t no disco, this ain’t no fooling around, this is Charlotte, North Carolina and I got nothing against somebody that wants to beg for money. If they have no self-esteem, if they have no pride at all and they want to beg for money, I admire people like that. Anybody who’s got the guts to walk up to somebody in the parking lot at five-thirty in the morning and panhandle him for some change and then say thank you, is just to me, it’s a human drop.

Cornelius, N.C. 28031 (704) 892-9834 Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sat. 9 a.m.-5 p.m.

SERVING ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE AND MARINE LUBRICATION NEEDS. We Service Boats, Domestic, Imports, and Exotic Cars.

PRESENT YOUR DAVIDSON ID & RECEIVE 10% OFF!