THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

1991 Student Government Elections: Questions & Answers

Worah: I think the SGA will have to work closely with the PCC and the administration in order to determine
any changes.

Joe Cook: I'd like to start off by stating to you some of my reasons for running for SGA vice
president, and to tell you some of the things I can add to the SGA in that role. First, I
enjoy serving the student body. Throughout my freshman and sophomore years, I have been very involved and have developed a
keen interest in staying abreast of the many issues that come up at Davidson and taking part in finding solutions,
or at least exploring the options that each issue presents. Secondly, I feel like the vice presidency will utilize several
of my stronger characteristics which have been developed during my first two years on the SGA. Third, I think that
the SGA has a great opportunity to increase its participation in many different campus activities and events. Since the vice
president is in charge of all the SGA committees, the individual should be abreast of all the issues on campus.
They have to channel all the different student ideas and reactions into the SGA committees in order to enhance the
SGA’s productivity. A big part of the vice president’s job is appointing the right people to various committees, and I
think that I have the contacts and judgment to do that. Like I said before, the vice presidency will utilize
some of my stronger characteristics. I enjoy listening to people and I think I understand what they are trying to
tell me. Secondly, I enjoy taking people’s suggestions and exploring options rather than just stating the way things have to
be. Third, I am very organized. It seems that my time is up, and so I’ll end this here. Thank
you.

Davidsonian: What do you think sets you above the other candidates?

Cook: I think that I have developed a keen interest in staying abreast of the campus issues. I feel like
I am able to listen to several points of view and channel them into a workable solution.

Davidsonian: One of the complaints about the SGA has been the relative lack of communication between senators and their constituents.
How do you intend to overcome this problem?

Cook: One way we’ve been able to improve SGA interaction with the campus has been through The Davidsonian. The SGA
news article helps keep people informed. One thing I think we need is a suggestion box for students, one that’s
checked often. I also think that senators need to go out and ask their constituents about various issues.

Davidsonian: Please tell us about your experiences with the Solidarity Committee.

Cook: I think I have developed a keen interest in staying abreast of the campus issues. I feel like I
am able to listen to several points of view and channel them into a workable solution. I think we’ve started,
but there’s still an awful lot to be done. From my experience on the SGA I have developed an idea
of where we should go. Going on, during my freshman year I was a class senator, and now I am
sophomore class president. I feel that this has been a wonderful experience to serve the student body and my class.
I feel that my contact with my constituents was one of the key reasons that I was reelected last year.
I feel very comfortable in addressing different people, listening to their concerns, and trying to convey what they tell me
to the SGA. I think that the vice president needs to have constant interaction with the campus.

Cook: One of the biggest things we’ve discovered has been the apathy in regard to minority affairs. Even when there
was such an enormous reaction to the idea of a black fraternity coming to Davidson, when we had a forum
about it, participation was minimal. Other than the members of the BSC, most students ignored the forum. Another issue is
minority representation on the SGA, whether the independents should have a vote, or whether the status quo should be kept.
Yet another is the level of minority faculty recruitment. The SGA sponsored a forum about a month ago which included
different members of the Union Board, Patterson Court houses, the BSC, and the Senate. Doug Jobe will be releasing a
report on the forum which contains several of the new ideas which were expressed. I think that’s a great step.

Davidsonian: Can you tell me some things that the SGA is capable of changing and needs to change? Be specific.

Cook: Academic policies -- the length of the semesters and the number of credits it takes to graduate. I think
the SGA needs to target the lack of student morale around the basketball team. I think also that there’s a
bureaucracy building around Davidson, in regard to the Baker Sports Complex. I think we can go back to the open
campus ethic. We all live under the honor code, we’re all Davidson students.

Davidsonian: How do you feel about...the possibility of the college’s athletic status? Do you support a Division change?

Cook: I don’t think, from what the Trustees have said, that we’re going to have to make that decision anytime
soon. I think we’ve got a great balance with Division I basketball and Division III football. We’ve got great promise
in regard to recruitment, thanks to the great job Terry Holland and Bob McKillop have been doing. I think we
definitely need Division I basketball, and Division II football. I hope we’re not going to have to change our status.

Laura Cunningham: Since I’ve been a freshman senator on the SGA, I’ve learned what a huge difference effective student government
can make at Davidson, and I know that my energies are going towards something worthwhile. I figure that running for
vice president is my big chance to do something for the Davidson community and make as big a difference as
possible. This is where my talents lie.

One big job of the vice president is to preside over the SGA committees. There are standing committees and faculty
committees and they have to work together with the senate to do the work so that the senate can meet.
I’ve been on several.

Right now I’m the chairperson of the Charters and By-laws Committee, and I’m in the process of renewing the charters
of various organizations. I feel like I know the By-laws as well as anyone on the senate. I’ve also been
on the Activities Tax Council, and I’ve learned about how different organizations get budgeted, and how the SGA works out
the budget. The vice president is supposed to help the SGA work out a budget, and I feel like my
experience of knowing where the money goes and where it comes from will really help me there.

The vice president is also involved with many councils, the Athletic Council, CCRL, Student Conduct Council. I feel that my
experience at Davidson has been very diverse, and I feel that the input I would have from so many different
people would help me generate the correct output in those councils.

Another thing that makes me more qualified is that I have a lot of drive and a unique perspective. My
roommate once said to me, “Laura, once you get started on something, you just don’t stop!” and I feel that
that is one quality that the vice president really needs to have. I feel like if you were to put
me into a room, I would go for the doors, I would go for the windows, the ceiling, the floor,
until I found a good way out of that room. That’s basically it.

Davidsonian: If you are elected vice president, how will your handling of the job differ from Kristi Kessler’s?

Cunningham: Kessler has worked more behind the scenes, and that’s just because of her personality. I feel that I can
handle the behind-the-scenes work, but I like to do both. I’d like to make the committees more visible. Last spring
a lot of very qualified people didn’t sign up for faculty committees because they didn’t know about them. Students have
a tremendous voice in determining direction. It’s a resource that needs to be more fully utilized. Kristi Kessler has done
a great job, I just think my personality is a bit different.

Davidsonian: Why did you choose to run for vice president instead of president?

Cunningham: I think Kristi qualifies me most for the vice presidency.

Davidsonian: I see that you are on the Security Committee. What steps have you taken in regard to campus security?

Cunningham: That committee hasn’t been very active this year because Doug Jobe has taken a lot of that responsibility on
himself. I won’t tell you what I think of his doing that. Last year, several of us on the committee
got together to spy on the police officers. I remember Mike Ott and I sat outside of Quincy’s one night
for a good two hours while both campus police officers were eating. Kim Short and Mary Dempster have basically worked
with Doug, and the committee itself has not been as active as it was.

Ben Gilmer: My name is Benjamin Gilmer. I’m running for SGA vice president. I haven’t been involved with the SGA
so far, but I have a lot of energy. I think we’re in kind of a latent period as far
as politics goes. I don’t think there’s much campus involvement, I don’t see much interaction between the student body and
the SGA. That’s something I’d like to change. I’d like to go back to basics. I’d like to reunite and
redirect campus energy, and break these communi-
