MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

Campus Living

Davidson Together Program Transcends Racial Lines

By John Patton

How much do you really know about Davidson? Do you know that it is made up of four different sections, some of which are divided along racial lines? Do you know that there has never been a Black graduate of Davidson College who lived in Davidson? The list could go on because there are a lot of questions that divide Davidson on racial lines. I can’t say whether the racism in Davidson is any different than in Boston or Atlanta, but the racial segregation, planned or not, is there. Those railroad tracks that traditionally have marked racial or socio-economic boundaries in many communities certainly do so here. They also served as the catalyst for Davidson Together.

Davidson Together is an attempt to bridge some of the racial, socio-economic, historical, and entrenched boundaries. What is the best way to cross these lines? Well, we thought eating dinner in Black families’ houses would be a start. The idea is that two students eating in someone’s house isn’t intimidating to strangers because they are in the comfort of their own houses. Last year about 10 families and 20 students participated. This year we’ve seen more families in the community interested, so now we need more student involvement and ideas. This is an opportunity for all to make some good friendships and make Davidson a real, together community.

Questions: call Sam Adams - 6169; John Patton - 6135; Kelly Thompson - 6265; Bennet Waters - 6071.

College Bowl: The Winningest "Sport" On Campus

By Arjun Srinivasan

Question - In what event has Davidson beaten Virginia, Duke, Wake Forest, and N.C. State all in the last year? The answer? College Bowl.

Davidson has a long history of fielding excellent College Bowl teams; in fact, in 1979, Davidson defeated Harvard to win the National College Bowl title. So what exactly is this event that we are so good at? Well, simply put, College Bowl is a lot like Jeopardy with teams. Players answer questions which are worth stated point values, and the team with the most points at the end wins the match.

Each year, Davidson travels to several tournaments where we play anywhere from 8 to 15 matches. The tournaments usually last two days, and teams come from several states to compete. Davidson has not been successful in gaining another national title, but we were national runner-up in 1981 and fifth nationwide in 1982. We have posted a strong record of which the school can be quite proud.

Davidson won the Berry College Invitational in 1982, has won the Southeast Invitational a couple of times, was runner-up at the 1990 Duke Invitational, and most recently finished third at the 1991 Southeast Invitational Tournament. Davidson’s biggest tournament each year is the Regional Tournament, in which a team must win its region to advance to national play. The fact that Davidson is in the nation’s largest region makes for stiff competition. Although Davidson has not won Regionals in several years, we consistently do quite well; last year we finished fourth out of 24 teams, and usually finish in the top six.

Perhaps more important than the awards is the consistently strong record of the team.College Bowl coach Hansford Epes is the winningest coach on campus. His teams have never finished below a .600 winning percentage, and over the last two years, Davidson holds a cumulative record of 45-21. Of course, the strength of a school’s College Bowl team cannot tell one how good that school is. However, Davidson does have a strong academic reputation, and we can take pride that we have done, and continue to do, so well in academic competition. This year’s team consists of Captain Doug Gibson (’91), Steven Libby (’91), Arjun Srinivasan (’92), David Campbell (’92—but on leave), Bill Pomeroy (’94), and alternate Greg Fisher (’94). The team will travel to Lexington, Kentucky on March 1 for this year’s Regional Tournament, and we certainly plan to uphold Davidson’s tradition of excellence.

Photo by College Relations for the televised final rounds of the regional high school quiz bowl.

Davidson Outdoors Director, Greg Sheppard, scales the new climbing wall in one of the old racquetball courts of Johnston gym. Details on how to use the wall can be obtained by calling -2623 or -2142.

Photo by Chris Lee

What Is A Michael W. Smith?
By Andy Hackett

Michael W. Smith’s posters in the Union, announcing his performance in Baker Sports Complex on Friday, March 15, are curiously absent of key information. For starters, who is he? Gotta be a pop singer, judging by his not-entirely accidental resemblance to George Michael. So, why isn’t he topping the charts? He is... the Christian rock charts. I would have liked to discover that someone was breaking ground in this field. Unfortunately, the overly-preachy, musically-mediocre stereotypes fit Smith like a glove.

Smith wrote songs in Nashville before he joined Amy Grant’s touring band on keyboards and penned some of her more popular tunes. In 1983, he released his first solo album, and this latest release is his seventh solo effort. If Smith progressed musically beyond this material over the course of seven albums, I must conclude that he has very little to offer outside the pre-teen, Christian rock market.

I certainly don’t argue with Smith’s aim of writing positive lyrics and “helping the kids make the right decisions”; his is an applaudable goal, and Heaven knows N.W.A. isn’t doing their part. However, Smith would be better suited to pontificate from the pulpit and not the microphone. Those lyrics that aren’t preachy are syrupy and elementary, but blame his co-writers for that; blame Smith himself for the music. Apart from his vocals resembling Richard Marx on estrogen, almost every song sounds like a Debbie Gibson throwback—cliched instrumentation, hackneyed song structures, and the obligatory horns/strings/gospel choir tune necessary to be considered a “sophisticated pop artist.”

The reason he hasn’t crossed over into the mainstream pop arena with a semi-secular song is because it would likely sound like a Honey Comb cereal commercial. This doesn’t mean that he isn’t a good live act, though; his press kit lauds his past performances, but we all have biases. Factor in the six-dollar student discount and Christian rap openers DC Talk, and we may have an uplifting experience knocking at our back door. If, however, you want to hear a positive message and powerful, original music, too late!... you’ve already missed King’s X.