8 THE DAVIDSONIAN . MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

Inside Art

In Memoriam Wm. B. Hight, Jr.

At the briefing our minds concentrated on the very sharpened pencil and the code. The man was a planner.

In tie and jacket, starched and sweltering, the lieutenants were at the ready for the General.

He refined each tale, measured, assayed, appreciated. The birthday troops rejoiced with the trembling fool’s gaol. Respect’s not an aspect
in easy reach for all.

Life’s a tall tale that vaunts a day of young, yet cheered and checked by the self-same sky, holds in
perfection but a little moment.

In the beginning was the voice over matter whose stones sprang golden warriors.

The apprentice magicked stumbling into competent, built toward the master class.

Perfection liked Hight. Hight joined the Bard’s stories and verse and could expand or be terse.

Where does a voice arise? Out of what clay? The sky was his oyster.

He taught not to fly by smoked mirrors. This dross was magicked to sterner stuff because if you drop your
guard in our profession as in the cloth’s.

He’s in the midst of life in a single room.

A man breaks into laughter pulled down by contraptions. Pulled down by contraptions breaks a man into laughter. We gathered
life by him and rejoiced with trembling.

The lie flies. The lie flies, flits unlike a moth not in the flame but checkered on unclipped wings. We
pedagogues of sham and mirror teach by smoke and error.

In Egypt he and the sphinx swapped riddles, maybe smoked camel’s dung. He could riddle a yarn. He could keep
a secret and the boy in him for surprises that carried firecrackers and a snake in the pocket. When he
uncovered the turkey you never knew for sure what was flying.

This man had a nose for the bogus which came from love of the Logos. No logos ever came of
the bogus. The world’s gone lilliput.

Thunder is good, thunder is impressive—with Mark, who no less than our pal fit not neat into metrical feet, he
opined it’s lightning does the work.

He delivered the telling remark.

A voice like every whorl is tuned. Like Sam and like Will, the Twain,

At an old radio face we listen when the day’s gone asleep. Bill enjoyed laugh. It’s dark aside, lights out
on our street.

Ahush the ballroom dances in big band sound. But the strutters can’t hear it nor the fretters. The world’s gone
lilliput.

At windy city where mendacity’s at the ready projectors build for a day.

Some things won’t bend to kindness.

Alien as a goat’s the gotch eye stunts the squint kills the straight facts. The fast and louche elide.

The great bland countenances as if for the world to worship and the mighty despair. Bend geometry and call it
Einstein. The seats of the scornful fill quickly. If it’s not worth doing it’s not worth doing well. Who stands
in the judgment?

The seats of the scornful are orchestra. In those days he descried the works of the mighty without despair, made
straight the way, and toads swell the music. The house lights are hushed.

The Sky Does Not Fall For A Lie is the show. It’s Our Town.

His was a rich pasture under ample heavens. The ungodly are not so. Holy Moses goes the limit but knows
the limit. Pastures run by the rivers of water and rejoice with trembling. The wind blows. Song goes on in
other voices. Fresh runners will carry the torch to the Promised Land. He knew how to roll the stone away
and whose help he needed to do it.

--Gill Holland

Due to the lack of space, the editors of Hobart Park are presently offering consolation to some submissions not appearing
in the latest issue. Copies of Hobart Park are now available in the form of a free-standing stack on the
counter in the Union lobby. The submission deadline for the next issue will be right after spring break. ***Submissions to
Inside Art may be deposited at the Union Desk.***

You burned my name into a wooden heart painted red like the sun at dusk. I dream often of all
things real and divine; warmly remember that which makes you treasure turtles lying on logs in the sun. (love) And
never forget that sometimes even old men skip through dandelions.

Molly Yarbrough
Chris Pace

Photo By Tim Dancy
