MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS 7 | WIRE!

Cheerleader Flips Over Weight Limit

STORRS, Conn. (CPS) -- A University of Connecticut cheerleader isn’t doing cartwheels for her school these days. Instead, she threw the university for a loop by filing a sexual discrimination complaint after officials dismissed her from the squad for weighing too much. The Connecticut Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities is looking into Michele Budnik’s complaint filed in July. “We feel it is inappropriate to comment on the case right now because it is still pending,” said university spokesman Mark Roy. Budnik, 21, who is 5 foot 6, weighs 130 pounds -- five pounds over the squad’s limit, which doesn’t vary with different heights. Budnik, unavailable for comment, told the Associated Press earlier that, “It’s absolutely ridiculous. You should be judged on your ability and not how much you weigh.” After her initial suspension, Budnik said she starved herself to try to lose the weight, but decided instead to take action.

Buffalo Gears Up For World University Games In ‘93

BUFFALO, N.Y. (CPS) -- Competition, camaraderie, and cultural exchange will be the order of the day when more than 6,000 athletes from 120 countries compete in 1993. The 70-year-old competition, held every year, is scheduled July 8-18, 1993, in Buffalo, N.Y. The games committee signed an agreement with CBS Sports to televise the games nationwide for 10 hours over two weekends. Officials say the games will offer scholarships to participants.

Viva La Difference

MINNEAPOLIS (CPS) -- Corporate America is changing its attitude about cultural differences in the workplace, say two University of Minnesota researchers. But until the problem is attacked squarely, companies will lose productivity and profit. Research assistant Sandra Johnson and Mary Ann Smith, assistant professor of vocational and technical education, compiled information from major firms about strategies for dealing with cultural and personality differences in the workplace. In a book titled “Valuing Differences in the Workplace,” the two researchers note that some people may thrive on personal recognition for their work, while others don’t. “Native American Indians, for instance, or Orientals feel drawing personal attention to themselves is in poor taste,” says Smith. Management should encourage cultural groups to share their heritage with other members of the workplace, she said.

Financial Crunch Hits Schools Hard

WASHINGTON (CPS) -- Nearly half of the nation’s colleges and universities suffered from mid-year budget cuts, according to a recent survey by the American Council on Education. “Colleges are facing, right now, more serious financial problems than I’ve seen in a decade,” says Elaine El-Khawas, vice president for political analysis and research. “This is a fiscal problem, not a student demand problem. It’s because of the fiscal problems in 30 states. Institutions will face hard choices concerning academic programs.” The report, released Aug. 4, showed 45 percent of all universities and colleges experienced mid-year cuts in their 1990-91 operating budgets. Sixty percent of the institutions reported they were substantially affected. To compensate for the cuts, two-thirds of the schools surveyed said they delayed expenditures for building and equipment. Another 24 percent expected to reduce the size of their faculty during the next five years. While academic programs are threatened, El-Khawas says, privatization, closing or merging of schools, while possible, is unlikely.

Cat Used As Weapon In Roommates’ Fight

TEMPE, Ariz. (CPS) -- An argument between an Arizona State University student and his roommate caused the death of a cat, temporarily landed one man in jail and sent the other to the hospital. Tempe police arrested Edward L. Treaster, 21, on Aug. 7 after he hit his roommate in the face with a cat. He is charged with assault, cruelty to animals, and making threats. The roommate, ASU student David Little, sustained minor injuries. “Apparently they were arguing and (Treaster) hit him in the face with his fist,” said Sgt. Mark Roy. Treaster was taken to the Maricopa County Jail and held in lieu of $1,000 bond. The incident occurred on Aug. 6.

Professor's Remark Sparks Uproar

Courtesy College Press Service

NEW YORK (CPS) -- A professor’s claim that Jewish filmmakers and their Mafia backers conspired to destroy African-Americans has sparked debate about his future at City College and the point at which academic freedom should begin and end. Dr. Leonard Jeffries' remarks on the white conspiracy, “planned, plotted and programmed out of Hollywood,” came July 20 at the Empire State Black Arts and Cultural Festival. Jeffries,Chairman of the college’s Black Studies Department, also said that “the white boy can’t be trusted.” Since then, university officials have received an onslaught of complaints, including requests for disciplinary action against Jeffries from the state attorney general, state legislators, Senate Majority Leader Ralph Marino, and Gov. Mario Cuomo.

“The governor isn’t telling (university officials) what to do,” said Terry Lynam, a spokesman for Cuomo. “He just thinks that these comments are so egregious that City College ought to take action or explain to the community why no action was taken.”

Others have asked for Jeffries’ resignation from his position as Black Studies chairman and from City College. “The governor is concerned because this is a free speech issue, but he felt he needed to say something because the comments were intemperate, inaccurate, and destructively divisive,” Lynam said.

University officials have said that while they don’t support what Jeffries said and plan to investigate, they do support his right to free speech. “I would like to reassure you I will conduct a thorough review of the situation,” City College President Bernard Harleston wrote in a letter to the City University chancellor and CUNY’s board of trustees. That review will begin in the fall and will include input from students and faculty.

CUNY Chancellor Ann Reynolds, along with the board of trustees chairman and vice chairman, issued a statement saying that university officials were “shocked and disturbed” by Jeffries’ comments and that they “intend to examine Professor Jeffries’ actions and statements and, if warranted, to pursue vigorously with City College the remedies that may be appropriate and available.”

The chancellor also released a statement saying she supports Harleston’s handling of the incident, according to David Fields, special counsel to the chancellor. “These are very serious statements” that Jeffries has made, Fields said. Cuomo agrees. “The larger issue is that we need to deal with this kind of attitude,” Lynam said. “This is not just a Jewish-black-white issue. It divides us as a city, a state, and a nation.”

Town Enforces Speed Limits
By Tom Koonce

In an attempt to prevent speeding in Davidson, the town’s police have been asked to enforce the current speed limit more rigidly. During last week’s Town Hall meeting, a concerned group of citizens asked that the speed limit be lowered on Main Street and Concord Road. The current speed limit on those streets is 35 mph. The citizens asked for this to be lowered to 25 mph.

After discussing this proposal, it was decided that the current speed limit is adequate and a lowered limit is not needed if the public is aware of and abides by the current law. According to Mayor Russell Knox, the police have “strict instructions to enforce the current speed limit.” Knox added that speeding on these roads is not a problem that has just come up since Davidson students returned to campus. Students should therefore be aware that there will be increased police enforcement of the 35 mph speed limit on Main Street and Concord Road. Town Administrator Leamon Brice warned, “We'll place an officer out there as often as possible.”

Chemical Continued from page 1.

Great deal of time. Several professors also tend to stock labs according to the needs of the courses they teach, and when that professor leaves their institution, full inventories are rarely taken. Said Barber, “Professors have a bad way of squirreling away chemicals.”

Schools are becoming more sensitive to these problems, however, by taking more thorough inventories more often, as well as discontinuing the purchase of chemicals in bulk amounts. According to Giduz, the money saved by buying large amounts of chemicals does not compare to the amount it costs the college to remove the forgotten excess. Saturday’s cleanup cost approximately $5,000. Giduz also noted that the college no longer uses picric acid in chemistry experiments, due to its potential volatility.

Town Hall Continued from page 1.

There will be an open house in the new Town Hall on Sunday, September 8 from two until four in the afternoon. Students are invited to attend and take a tour of Davidson’s new Town Hall.

Steak & Hoagie of South Lake Shopping Center now makes available to Davidson students two discount cards.

Steak ‘n Hoagie Club
*FREE* with purchase of any full-size sandwich, your card will be stamped. When filled, the next one's on us. Not valid in combination with any other offer or coupon.

10% OFF OR DISCOUNT CARD
A taste for everyone. Pick up the one of your choice. 10% OFF