THE DAVIDSONIAN

Photo by Sports Info

Scott Townsend says, "I am going to hurt you," to his opponent.

SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

Men’s Tennis Loses To Wake, UNC

By Robert Grubb

The Davidson men’s tennis team experienced another tough weekend, with consecutive matches against Wake Forest and North Carolina last Saturday
and Sunday. Davidson nearly pulled off its first victory against an ACC team in several years. Davidson’s many freshmen hurt
the Wildcats at the number six slot, where Russell Briggs lost his first set 7-5 after being up 5-2. Briggs
went on to lose the match 7-5, 6-2.

The Wildcats also struggled in doubles, although Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer turned in a strong performance at number one
doubles. Davidson fared much better at Wake Forest. The ‘Cats went into the doubles with the match tied at 3-3
after Zabell, Beyer, and Joey Manibo all won their singles matches. Zabell and Beyer, however, could not back up their
singles victories in doubles. After losing the first set, they came back to win the second to set up a
third set. Zabell lost his serve in the fourth game, which gave Wake the opening they needed to win the
match. Briggs and Ryan Harper also lost their match at number two doubles in three sets to give Wake the
win.

“Winning three-set matches is tough on the road,” said Frank. “But we need to start winning some of the matches.”
Frank was not at all displeased with the weekend. “I told the guys to keep these losses in perspective, that
while it’s tough, this will ultimately prepare them for conference matches like Campbell,” said Frank. “We showed that we can
play with teams like Wake, but we need to focus on not being satisfied with competing, and to start beating
these teams.”

The Wildcats were not as successful on Sunday when they lost to North Carolina, 9-0. The fifteenth-ranked Tarheels simply brought
too much firepower to Davidson. “This is the deepest team I have ever seen at Carolina,” said Coach Jeff Frank.
David Jespersen nearly won Davidson’s only singles set in his match at number two singles. Jespersen came back in the
second set to force a tiebreaker. He jumped out to a 5-2 lead in the tiebreaker but dropped five straight
points to lose the set and the match 6-4, 7-6.

Frank made these comments while looking forward to upcoming matches against East Carolina and Virginia Commonwealth. Davidson returns to action
on Friday with a home match against Virginia. They play on Saturday and Sunday against East Carolina and Virginia Commonwealth.
Both matches start at 1 p.m.

Photo by Sports Info

Mary Beth Ruth Sees Changes Within Women's Tennis

By Larry Dagenhart

If you grew up on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, the chances are good that you would have the opportunity
to play a lot of tennis. Mary Beth Ruth, a senior history major and co-captain of the Davidson women’s tennis
team, took advantage of the sunny climate at an early age and developed her skills tobecome a High School All-American,
as well as a four-year standout for the Wildcats. Although she didn’t begin playing tennis seriously until age 13, Ruth
credits her success to two things: practicing every day, and the career-long encouragement from Dr. Albert Hodgman, a retired surgeon
and tennis coach who resides on the island. Hodgman first coached Ruth when she was a seventh grader at Sea
Pines Academy. Following that year, he retired altogether from coaching, but kept Mary Beth under his wing and has worked
with her and her two sisters almost every day for the past 10 years.

“I can’t say enough about what he’s meant,” said Ruth. “He has helped me more than anyone and has really
supported my family. I certainly give a lot of credit to him,” she added. Although Ruth gives Dr. Hodgman credit
for getting her started in tennis, she acknowledges head coach Caroline Price for her improvement. “I feel more complete as
a player thanks to her,” praised Ruth. “Her drills have really improved my net game and my volleys. She has
inspired me, because as a freshman, I didn’t realize where in my game I could improve.”

Ruth played a predominantly baseline game coming in as a freshman, as most of the players do. However, according to
coach Price, she has now “developed her game to include midcourt and frontcourt.” Ruth became interested in Davidson for a
variety of reasons, namely the academic reputation and Division I athletics. “I wanted to be challenged academically and athletically.” So
after some encouragement from her father, and four weeks at July Experience, Ruth was ready to apply early decision.

Ironically, Ruth was never seriously recruited to play tennis at Davidson. Nevertheless, she walked on the team her freshman year,
won all 12 of her preseason challenge matches, and earned the number two playing position. Ruth was even nominated for
Player of the Year. Although she did not win the honor, the nomination was a first for a Davidson freshman.

In her four years of Davidson tennis, Ruth has certainly seen many changes. The most significant of these have been
conference changes, different playing positions, and the advent of scholarships. Ruth has also assumed various roles in terms of court
leadership. She played at number two her first year, anchored the number one position her sophomore and junior years, and
now with the advent of scholarships, plays currently behind Cyndi Hess and Jennifer Beahm, two freshmen ranked nationally in the
top 100 of their age group. Among other changes, Ruth has gradually seen the schedule get tougher from year to
year. This is primarily due to the recruiting of many international players by Davidson’s opponents.

In terms of what Ruth has enjoyed most about her years playing Davidson tennis, she mentions the friends she has
made on the Davidson team as well as those of her opponents. She has especially enjoyed the travel—especially the trip
to Hawaii her sophomore year. Finally, she is also thrilled this year to have her younger sister, Tasha, on the
team. “Her (Tasha’s) personality has livened up the team and I love playing doubles with her,” she said.

In looking back over her Davidson career, Mary Beth Ruth has been enlightened by the friends she has made, as
well as her own development in a lifetime sport.
