10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

Inside Art |

MALEDICTION

(To the Scrawler of Swastikas on a Jewish Poster Outside the Religion Department)

“Ha-ish attah” (2 Sam 12:7)

You drew a cursed sign and penned words that have killed. May this be your fate:

May the tool that marred carve emblems of shame on your face and in your mind.

May you sicken at the sight of your own image, frozen in that instant you took pen to hand to destroy and deface.

You failed to sign your name.

May your name now abandon you, remain unspoken, unheard.

May your name be borne by no one.

May no parent bear its burden, no child its legacy.

You have wrought murderous words from letters. When you lie in the ground, may you hear the words of Abel’s cry six million times echoing from unmarked, mass graves.

May no letters combine to console you. May this be your alphabet:

Auschwitz Babi Yar Chelmno Dora Ebensee Ferramonti di Tarsia Grodno Horodenka Iasi Janowska Kovno Lodz Matthausen Nesvizh Opole Lubelskie Plaszow Ravensbruck Sobibor Treblinka Uzligorod Vaivara Warsaw Xanthi Yanovka Forest Zamosc

Visiting Assistant Professor of Art Andy Owens uses a steamroller to create his unique prints. See Davidson Arts in coming issues for a profile.

PAYING ATTENTION TO WHAT’S IMPORTANT

A. Hey we’re sure! It’s a TOUPEE!

I spy cunning with an eye. Before this meeting this morning late he failed to dry his hair (own) must have and the damp darker stood out just so under the smart brown brush of expensive not his.

No matter. It’s a free country, but that settles our little dispute. Should have bet. The meeting ticks on as slowly as his own dries and merges with the coiffed seamless atop until there seems only the possibility we debated last week. Hence his money and his care are vindicated. Few here have a trained spy’s eye for tell-tale hair.

Yesterday in the British press Sean Connery, Scotland’s favorite star and son, called for the independence of the land of the Scot from the Sassenach to the south. We liked him last in Russia House and found him soul-sore.

Now there’s some connection twixt B and A, but I confess what it is I canna say.

-- J. Gill Holland

Andy Owens Makes Art

Photos BY Tim Carswell