"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXIII
MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991
NUMBER 9

Photo By Lee Pennington

Woodrow Wilson Foundation Brings Lionel Barber to Campus
By David Thompson

“Anybody who is anybody has an opinion on what’s going on in the world,” said Lionel Barber of his fellow
journalists in Washington, D.C. Barber, this year’s Woodrow Wilson Fellow, is the Washington correspondent for London’s Financial Times. During his
five-day visit to Davidson, Barber expressed his own opinions regarding such matters as the life of a foreign correspondent in
Washington, breaking into the world of journalism, and the differing perspectives of Americans and Europeans on aid to the Soviet
Union.

Barber’s first speaking engagement was at a welcoming luncheon held Monday, October 14, in the Carolina Inn. Describing his understanding
of the role of the press in Washington, Barber drew from his experiences as the Washington Post’s Lawrence Stone Fellow
in 1985. Barber began to see the press as “part of the process” in Washington. Barber believes that journalists shouldn’t
fear being “spun around” or manipulated by politicians. Once people know you in Washington, he claimed, they will be forthright.
“Of course, they have an agenda, but that we all have,” Barber said.

When Ambassador Jack Perry asked Barber whether he found European newspapers to serve readers more thoroughly than their American counterparts,
Barber said yes. He noted that in most cities one paper dominates the market, and that the lack of competition
has inspired a decline in quality. Barber mentioned the lack of foreign coverage in U.S. papers as one of the
most obvious shortcomings. The problems, as he sees them, do not stem from a lack of information to publish, but
a lack of insightful commentary on the news.

On Wednesday, Barber spoke to approximately 75 people about the disparities between the American and European understandings of the events
in the Soviet Union since August. The status of the Soviet Union now challenges as anachronistic the grounds of U.S.
foreign policy since World War II. The relevance of the U.S. doctrines of nuclear build-up and containment, as well as
the American sense of a national mission against communism, have all been called into question. Europe, in Barber’s opinion, also
faces challenges regarding its changing identity.

See "Barber" on page 2

Turkey Manure Makes College Environmentally Safer
By Tom Price

Since the early 80’s Davidson has been among the few colleges in the nation that have adopted ground maintenance methods
which are non-threatening to the environment. Irvin Brawley, who has worked at the college for 21 years and is currently
the Associate Director of Buildings and Grounds, helped to bring these methods to Davidson. The technique Brawley has adopted is
referred to as Integrated Pest Management, or IPM. Brawley said that the main difference between this method and others is
that “no preventive spray-

Reach Out & the Homeless Insulted by Talk Show Hosts
By Tom Koonce

Last Monday, senior Beth Mitchell, in charge of publicity for Reach Out (YSSC), was hassled in an interview (see transcript
of interview on page 4) with two talk show hosts of WCNT 1480AM. After Mitchell did this, the two men
began suggesting their own views about how a statement about homelessness should be made. The two believed that a sleep
out at Davidson would not accomplish much of anything and that Davidson students would not take this event very seriously.
One of the hosts suggested that the homeless should be given “a copy of the [missing text].” The hosts also
commented on how the homeless “don’t want to work.” Mitchell remained calm and continued to present the reasons for why
a sleep out would help awareness andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

how other programs at Davidson also contribute to trying to solve the problem of homelessness. McGuffin and Clarke continued to
make remarks about the homeless, such as calling them “bums.” Mitchell agreed to the interview with Clarke because she thought
it would be a good way to get more publicity about the events of ‘Into the Streets,’ specifically the sleep-out
of last Wednesday night. Mark McGuffin and Matt Clarke are the two morning talk show hosts for WCNT. They began
the interview by asking Mitchell to tell them about the sleep-out. They both commented on how the homeless are “pitiful”
and “nasty.” McGuffin also said that the way to help the homeless is to “hit them in the head.” They
classified the sleep-out as “a crock.” After they finished the interview with Mitchell, the two hosts made fun of Davidson
students and called the sleep-out “a crock.”

Photo By Holt Hathaway
Chris Moeling and Mary Faith Mount were among the many student participants in Wednesday's sleep-out rallied by talk show hosts
Clarke & McGuffin.

When asked about the comments, see "Reach Out" on page 3.

Connor House Closer to Reality
By David Smyth

The new women’s eating house, should it come to fruition, will be known as the Connor House as per a
vote last Monday night. The name Connor derives from Carol Connor Willingham, a 1977 graduate who is now an investment
banker with the Equitable Corporation and an active alumna. Willingham was a hall counselor, SGA representative, and WDAV announcer as
a student and has remained deeply involved with Davidson after graduation. Willingham was the first trustee to be elected by
the alumni association and has been president of the National Alumni Association.

Over seventy people have listed their names as potential members, and forty-seven women came to the first house meeting. Very
few seniors are contemplating a switch from their present houses, but a good number of juniors are. The present roll
is composed of current Rusk and Warner Hall members who feel that their own houses have grown too large for
any type of intimacy as a group. The class of ’93 has a particular problem in that many of their
friends are abroad for the term and are not sure of their individual loyalties.

Elections for Connor House officers are scheduled to be held tonight. As of Friday night, only one candidate was listed
for president, sophomore Sarah Way, though nominations were still open for consideration. Meanwhile, the new group has pressed on. A
car wash was held on Saturday behind the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, and posters have been put up for the
Athletic Department. Connorites will also be traipsing around the dorms and peddling their culinary wares Wednesday night for a bake
sale.

All of this activity is a collective effort to raise money for the house, specifically a Friday Afternoon Club and
other activities that prospective freshwomen members could participate in and get a feel for what the Connor House is all
about. They must have sixty members to receive official college sanction and occupy a Patterson Court residence, which would be

See "Connor" on page 3.

INSIDE
In other words, the grounds crew doesn’t spray pesticides in order to prevent diseases, but instead waits until

See "Manure” on page 3.

* McGuffin interview. See page 4.

OPINIONS:
The Birkenstock Boys are together again, for better or for worse. See page 6.

NEWS:
Dick Schultz visits Davidson. See page 9.

DAVIDSON ARTS:
Steamroller Art? See page 11 for 2 photos.

Transcripts of the Mitchell-Clarke & McGuffin interview. See page 4.

SPORTS:
Wildcat action update. See pages 17-19.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
