THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

Rites of Passage: Freshmen Seek The Promised Land With A Little Help from Yahweh (Not)

Dear Freshpeople:

For many of you, the events of this coming Friday will seem like an answer to your prayers. Some zealot
in your ranks will figuratively part the untrodden waters behind the Commons, and you, and others in your midst, will
come to see The Light, The Promised Land, PATTERSON COURT.

As a fraternity member and as someone who has thoroughly enjoyed Patterson Court since my first days there, I feel
a little strange saying that I regard the date September 20th with mixed emotions. But I do. As a hall
counselor, I am a little sad that our five-week period as almost singular hall units is coming to a close.
But you’re ready to move on, I know, I know. So before you embark on your passage to The Promised
Land, here are a few things that are worth pointing out:

Patterson Court is not the end all, be all of the Davidson social life. While the Court offers a lot
in the way of social interaction, the College Union is a great social outlet for all types of people, regardless
of an affiliation to any single house. People who do not take advantage of the Union’s varied programming are really
selling themselves short.

Self-selection, as a policy, is something you need to understand. Do not think that independents are only friends with other
independents, or that house members are only friends with members of that same house. Davidson’s social scene is truly remarkable
in that it affords people the opportunity to befriend WHOMEVER, and since most parties are open to everyone, you can
hang out with your friends WHEREVER. Get to know as many people as you can, and don’t limit your interest
in people to their status as independent or house member.

Stick by your old friends. Not all of you will do the same things come January. Don’t abandon your freshman
hall. If tumbleweed blows through the hall on weekends, your hall counselor might go into an irreparable depression. You need
to judge all things for yourself (including, of course, whether or not to listen to my advice in these matters).
Don’t be afraid to ask how it works, and be aware that it is not all that it may seem.

Andrew Spainhour

Way Beyond Birkenstock
By J. Kyle Kinner

You know, I went to Washington in order to live deliberately. In order to front only the essential facts of
life, and see if I could not learn what they had to teach, and not, when I came to die
(probably in some gun battle), discover that I had not lived. Not.

I went to Washington in order to pad my resume with what I assumed would be an easy journey into
crib land, and see if I could not spend an entire semester in slack, and not, when I came to
graduate, discover that I had been wait-listed at six law schools (as, no doubt, some of you seniors are already
discovering). Well, so much for my assumptions.

“Welcome to Hell, Mr. Kinner. Here’s your map of the D.C. But, then again, even Dante had some fun. Wait
a minute! I think I’m having a flashback (not LSD-related). Yes... I remember it as if it were today (probably
because it was today). Anyway, as I propped my loafer-clad feet on my desk at National Republican Congressional Committee headquarters,
I gazed expectantly at my private phone and awaited the President’s call. And awaited. And awaited. And finally it was
time for lunch, so I took my loafers off the desk and strode purposefully past the grinning picture of Dan
Quayle on the wall by the elevators (Washington insider: He really is as smart as you’ve heard.) With Lincolnesque determination,
I reached forward and pressed down.

Alright, maybe the first morning wasn’t a day in the life of James Baker, but I did get to pay
six-fifty for a grilled chicken on rye and a glass of tea (no refills), in a restaurant where I am
sure famous people occasionally dine. Not that I saw any, mind you. Nor have I seen many of what you
might refer to as “notable Republicans.” I hear the Democrats among you cackling about “notable Republicans” being a contradiction in
terms, but it’s true, there are a couple, none of whom I saw.

Oh well, I’ll await the President's call tomorrow (lacking any defined duties), and maybe we’ll have lunch (grilled chicken and
a tea). And then I’ll tell him my plans for selling our toxic waste to previously Soviet republics in exchange
for food credits (it’s going to be a long winter, comrade); eventually he’ll makeme and powerful. But don’t worry, I
won’t forget to trickle down on the little people, such as yourselves. Now, won’t that be nice? Of course I’m
not serious. If I ever do reach such a position of fame and power, I promise to remain the same
humble, sensitive type of individual you've come to associate with this column. So don’t worry. In fact, in the words
of the late, great JFK (whose eternal flame is located near my palatial residence): “Ask not what I can do
for you, but what you can do for me.”

One of the benefits of working at Republican HQ, besides the almost daily cocktail buffet, is the big barrel of
cash marked “Federal Savings and Loan: Free Samples.” That is an exaggeration, of course. Those of you who think the
Republicans are the party of the rich should come take a look at the main third-floor conference room. It's about
the size of your dorm room; and I know for a fact that most of you have better media centers
than we do. Don’t you feel proud, knowing you live better than the governing executive party of the most powerful
nation on earth? Better you should remedy this horrible oversight. Apparently, this little operation is privately funded, which means that
if you act RIGHT NOW, you too can help support the party of Lincoln, Reagan, and Myrick. In fact, send
in your deductible donation (deduct it from your bank account, ‘cause you can’t take it off your tax return), and
we'll send you a Commemorative Federal Receipt, handsomely styled and suitable for framing. But only if you act RIGHT NOW!

But enough of this shameful parties are especially good at. So what else is new? Well, let's see. The Judiciary
Committee has Justice-designate Thomas over the coals, and the opening salvo suggests he might do well to invest in some
fire-retardant Brooks Brothers suits. Because of early deadlines, I’ve only seen the first day’s highlights, but it looks as though
Thomas’ handlers (what exactly do they handle anyway?) have coached him pretty thoroughly. The man can dodge a question as
well as Souter, and he apparently learned the terrible Bork imperative: DON’T PISS ‘EM OFF. So I predict a partisan
split, a jump to the whole Senate, and relatively easy passage. But guess what? It doesn’t really matter anyway. This
Supreme Court can only move right.

See "Kinner" on page 6

versible depression. If for no other reason than to make your hall counselors feel useful, make a concerted effort to
stay involved with your hall. It’s worth it. Don’t think that massive drinking and massive drinking alone impresses people. If
you can drink ten beers and still operate heavy farm machinery, well, that’s just great. But if you drink ten
beers and end up in your roommate’s closet wearing only a laundry bag, it’s time to embrace a little responsibility.
Yakking off the back porch of houses every night or drinking until an ambulance comes does not classify you as
“cool.” Really.

Never feel that you may not fit into a certain niche. You fit in wherever you allow yourself to feel
comfortable. Don’t let Patterson Court rule your life. Go to the 900 Room, see a movie, catch up on some
sleep, do your homework, take your hall counselors to the James Taylor concert, or just hang out with the hall.
Get involved. Be yourself. Be yourself. Be yourself. And, of course, have fun in whatever you may choose to do.

Scribblings

The dating season officially began this past weekend with Warner Hall ladies (or chicks as real men refer to them)
inviting a select few men from around campus to attend their illustrious “Steak ‘n’ Date.” In actuality, the games really
began at Davidson’s perennial powerhouse, Clinch Valley, and a rousing good time was had by all. (For several of us
who “chose” not to attend either event, there was a wonderful crush party held by the fine young women of
Basement and First peren.)

On parties at Davidson and elsewhere, one pulls out perhaps a month-old Trojan and heads into the jap. (Rude Notes
and Random)

First home football stand against these events, there was a wonderful sleep with you, dork. She’s sleeping with your roommate.

Chris Frampton

(M) Why do chicks insist on calling us “boys?” It’s because we're like cute little puppy dogs that sleep at
their feet and heel whenever they whistle. They say that on a quiet night in Davidson, you can hear the
P-whips a’ cracking, whatever that means.

(M) How come girls won’t just sleep with a guy? That's such a dumb question. It's not that she won't
sleep with a guy, she won't sleep with you, dork. She’s sleeping with your roommate.

(F) How come guys don’t ask me to their cocktail parties? Are you kidding? We've got imports to finance. Did
you really think dating was as simple as staying within this county? Sheesh.

Second of all, if you think about it from a guy's point of view, all you’re saying is you want
to bone topay for dinner. If you look at it from a girl’s point of view, all
