2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991

Could Iraq Be "Another Vietnam?"
By Ross Sloop

Are we in for another Vietnam? This question seems to be on everyone’s mind. Many of the signs posted on campus, both for and against military involvement, make references to Woodstock, the late ‘60s, and Vietnam. Nobody wants the country to re-live the pain suffered in Southeast Asia. But isn’t that possible in the Middle East?

Professors Shi, Ortmayer, Gibson, and Mahoney were all college students during the late ’60s and early ’70s. They provided the Davidsonian with their opinions on the similarities and differences between the two wars.

Dr. Gibson, Duke ’70, pointed out the difference in the ways the country entered war. “Americans were slowly nudged into consciousness as military involvement in Vietnam steadily increased. In the Middle East everyone was anxiously aware of the approaching deadline.”

Many people agree with Dr. Ortmayer, Yale ’67, that unlike in S.E. Asia we are much more aware of who the enemy is in Iraq. “Although we might not have any better understanding of why we are fighting, we do have clearer lines drawn as to who the threat is in the Middle East.”

If we fought in Vietnam to stop the spread of communism, and the Iraqi War is a battle for oil then both were economic wars, right? Wrong, says Dr. Mahoney, Williams ’73. “America’s fear of the Domino Theory (spread of communism in S.E. Asia) was never justified in Vietnam: The North Vietnamese conquest of the south was a civil war.” He also claims that there is little reason to believe that Saddam Hussein would attack other countries. “Saddam Hussein has always felt that Kuwait was part of his country’s territory because they speak the same language and share the same customs.”

Dr. Shi, Furman ’73, an expert in Vietnamese history, sees more differences than similarities between the two wars. “The involvement of international troops and the role of the United Nations has kept the U.S. from looking as much like an imperialistic bully.” Dr. Shi also sees the absence of the draft as a big difference between the two wars and a reason for the current support of military involvement in the Middle East. “The draft was a major dynamic reason for the anti-war movement of the ’60s.”

Despite all of the differences, there are a number of similarities. Mahoney and Shi both expressed fear concerning the element of racism in the two wars. Unlike America’s past European wars, it’s easy when fighting against people of different cultures for racism to become a springboard for hatred. Whereas in Vietnam enemies were often called “chinks and gooks” now the air is filled with talk of “towel-heads” and “camel jockeys”. “Vietnam was a racist war,” says Mahoney “and Iraq could become the same.”

Dr. Gibson is going through much of the same personal frustration that she did in the late ’60s. “At Duke there was the fear that my husband might be drafted. I remember when my son was born in 1973, I was so relieved that he wouldn’t have to suffer through the Vietnam conflict. Now I am again worried that while my son turns 18, the country is entering another war.”

None of the professors advocate military involvement in the Middle East right now. Dr. Ortmayer would like to have seen the economic sanctions given more time to work. “Although military force may get Iraq out of Kuwait, it won’t solve any of the underlying problems.” Dr. Mahoney points to the success of economic sanctions in South Africa as well as the success of the embargo of Cuba in the ’60s.

Could there possibly be any positive results of a war? Professors see the increased awareness of young people as a positive outcome of both the Vietnamese conflict and the Iraqi War. War seems to bring about a raised level of consciousness that would be difficult to achieve otherwise. Each professor supports demonstrating, hanging signs, and holding vigils, as they all supported the anti-war movement of their day.

Dr. Gibson believes that students sometimes protest wars for selfish reasons. “There is almost a psychic need fordemonstrating. Protest is a ritualistic action that students do more for themselves.” The question remains, are we in for another Vietnam? Despite the similarities and differences of the circumstances leading to war, people really want to know if this war, like Vietnam, will drag out for years. Here the professors are divided. Dr. Ortmayer believes the war will see no quick end while Dr. Shi feels differently. “The length of this war is determined in part by the weather because of the dependence on air strikes. However, I believe that within the next two weeks we will start to see mass defections of Iraqi soldiers and in 6-8 weeks the allies will control Kuwait."

By Cecily Craighill

The S.G.A. held its second meeting of the semester on Tuesday, January 22 at 9:00 p.m. In the course of the opening announcements, senators were alerted to the need for 8 more volunteers. The S.G.A. includes that professors keep their exams on hand for 3 terms, and that optional, self-addressed postcards be available for students to put in their exam envelopes.

Dennis Higdon, M.D. serves in the NCAA

Continued from Page 1

requirement in full, however. This feat should not be a major problem for the coaching staff. Davidson must fund 19 full grants for men, in addition to 15 basketball grants, and 29 full grants for women. All “countable” aid, money administered by Davidson, can be used in meeting this requirement. It appears the men’s program is in full compliance, but more money will have to be given to the women’s program. Division I schools will be prohibited from playing Division II or III football as of September, 1993. However, a resolution was passed to develop legislation for a Division 1 - AAA football classification and championship. It is anticipated such a division would be comparable to the existing Division III and would allow these two divisions to freely compete against one another. Following the convention, student athletes and coaches were given an opportunity to present their opinions and respond to questions at a meeting with the Trustee Athletic Committee and the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics. Although no decisions have been made yet, the Advisory Council and the Trustees are working together to determine what will be best for Davidson College.

Watt

Continued from Page 1

try, to go. As an example, Watt cited the demographics of the Helms-Gantt Senate campaign. Two weeks before the election 47.5 percent of registered NC voters favored Gantt, 43 percent preferred Helms and 10 percent were undecided. The final outcome of the election left Gantt with 47 percent of the vote and Helms with 53. In Watt’s estimation, there was no doubt about what caused the entire 10 percent of the undecided voters to swing Helms’ way. “I remain convinced that there was nothing that Jesse Helms did in those last two weeks to change the opinion of those undecided voters,” Watt argued. “Their minds were already made up. They simply chose not to inform the pollers.” Reflective, perhaps, of the validity of Watt’s arguments was the lack of student interest or attendance at the celebration for Dr. King.

Storm

Continued from Page 1

reserves probably will decline,” Mrs. Patterson said. Elise Higdon's father is in the General Air National Guard. Elise (’92) explained how her father viewed his call to go to war: “He had no qualms about leaving. I feel better that he is contributing to the war because it gives me confidence that my friends will come back home. On the issue with protesters, it isn’t true that it does not affect them. The act of protesting against the war just tears them apart.” Those individuals who are serving in the war and are part of the Davidson community can understand Patterson's words: “Without support they cannot come home. Since we all want to see the war end we should all back the war.”

Midwinters 1991

February 1 and 2

Friday: Shag Dance and Lessons 8:30-11:30 p.m. 900 Room

Saturday: Skattish 2-5 p.m. Commons--The Taco Bar and Sodas

Double Feature: 8-12 a.m. Willy Wonka and Strange Brew 900 Room

FREE FOOD AND DRINK

insite Returns

LEAVE POEMS, STORIES AND DRAWINGS AT THE UNION DESK. Call Lee Camp for details. 892-4705