THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991

A Man, A Plan, A Reebok Pump
By David D. Smyth

This piece was first written for Dr. Lewis’s Advanced Composition class and none of this stuff ever really happened.

I took a trip to a few schools in northeast Washington, DC, last week, on a fact-finding mission as they say, and was quite pleased with what I saw. The innovative and progressive “Education President” wants me, the incoming Secretary of Education, to light up the department and, good golly, that’s just what I intend to do. Boy, before I’m through this place will be high-stylin’ and profilin’. As we begin our journey through a little piece of Americana, just remember that as Andre Agassi likes to say in his Nike commercials: “Image is everything.”

I am pleased to report that relatively few drive-by shootings marred my week-long glimpse of our nation’s future. Violence committed by students in a crack-induced frenzy is dwindling each and every day. Better yet, our major news networks are growing increasingly weary of televising reports of these random drug crimes when real firepower is on display in the Middle East. And by now, the average viewer’s desensitized eyes accept gang violence in America’s urban schools as inevitable evils in today’s crazy world. Things are looking up for education, boys and girls.

School officials also gave me the opportunity to talk with a few teachers in elementary, middle, and high schools. While the rapport between them and their students is essentially non-existent, most of them limited shouting matches to a minimum for my benefit—a lovely gesture, I think. Not all of the teachers appeared to have a commanding grasp of their subject matter, but all had passed minimum standards as required by the District of Columbia Board of Education, a fine accomplishment I think you’ll all agree. Some of you may ask whether the accomplishment belongs to the bureaucrats who pass them at any cost, but who are we to judge? The kids don’t know the difference, do they?

The facilities at the schools are in fine condition, most having been replaced since the Civil War. Still, many of these schools are legitimate hunting grounds for artifacts of our education past. Some of our children are lucky enough to do their daily work on slate, yes, slate, just as our forefathers did. Some annoying naysayers tend to complain that these methods are archaic and only stand in the way of the learning process. I’d like for the students themselves to answer these absurd claims, and if any of them could articulate a complete sentence, they would.

We have a plan for this department, yessiree. I like to call the grand scheme the Reebok Pump/Education Department Glitzorama. You'll notice that for the first time in United States history we’ve chosen to go with a corporate sponsor for a government program. In case you are asking why-in-the-hell-we’d-want-to-do-a-dumb-thing-like-that, I’ll answer your witless question with a brilliant one.

Beyond Birkenstock

Well, this is the last Beyond Birkenstock you'll read before Sinfest ...er, Springfest ’91. In fact, chances are, some of you won’t make it back anyway, so this may be the last column you read. Here are a few parting thoughts:

1. Remember to have fun, but stay safe.
2. Everyone is entitled to their opinions, right or wrong. We're right and you’re wrong. Simple.
3. Doug Robarchek’s column OutFront is not the best journalism.else could convince the world to buy a pair of sneakers for $180 with a budget that’s 90% marketing and advertising and 10% manufacturing? You see, we think it’s a new wave in our nation’s educational future for our young people. We don’t really need to improve our students’ basic skills as long as it looks as though we are. Because if the old people think everything is okay with the present state of affairs, then we’re okay for the next four years. And that’s the name of the game in Reebok politics, kids. Remember, responsible government lasts only as long as a presidential term. News, cable 31.

9. Birkenstocks (the shoes) are ugly as sin; who cares if they’re comfortable. Remember: it’s better to look good than to feel good.

10. Carolina be the last thing you read... ever. It’s gotta be good, right? Have we ever let you down before? (Rhetorical Question—Do. Not. Answer). What, we thought to ourselves, could possibly top last week’s Presbyterian scandal, and yet be suitable for you to read minutes before your (Kyle) or Pitt (Seth) will win the NCAA. (Now, we know UNLV is stronger, but who wants to cheer for a team that drags its knuckles when it walks onto the court.)

11. Simpson is Homer-Sexual and not the pinnacle of cultural enlightenment. How about, say, a top J. Kyle Kinner and Seth Beane nation’s golf course/permanent rest facilities. Or maybe:

13. We are not the all-time, top ten best jokes relating to major natural disasters; read them once in a while.

14. Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas is not the Davidson College motto.

15. You’re lucky to get fourteen things! Do you think it’s easy to come up with this level of humor week in and week out? If we had a nickel for every time we had to listen to you people complain about our column, we'd have a buck!

* Bonus Thing—John Burns is a hack. Can’t he just sit in France, eat Brie, and cheese on French babes like all the other American fools?

THE TOP FIFTEEN THINGS YOU COULD DO OR LEARN OVER BREAK TO IMPROVE AND UPLIFT YOUR LAZY SELVES:

1. Vanilla Ice has no talent.
2. The Davidsonian is a forum.
3. NASCAR is not that big outside of the Carolinas.
4. Tie-Dyes don’t match anything!
5. “Killer,” “Cash,” “Daddy,” and “Sweet” are simply foolish euphemisms for the much more direct “That is nice.” Those in the “real world” respect the latter—those at Charlotte Speedway the former.
6. “I hear you” means just that: It does not mean that one agrees with another. If that were the case, one need only say, “I agree.”
7. CNN is on cable 24 (that’s one less than ESPN). Headline News, cable 31.
8. Birkenstocks (the shoes) are ugly as sin; who cares if they’re comfortable. Remember: it’s better to look good than to feel good.
9. Carolina be the last thing you read... ever. It’s gotta be good, right? Have we ever let you down before? (Rhetorical Question—Do. Not. Answer). What, we thought to ourselves, could possibly top last week’s Presbyterian scandal, and yet be suitable for you to read minutes before your (Kyle) or Pitt (Seth) will win the NCAA. (Now, we know UNLV is stronger, but who wants to cheer for a team that drags its knuckles when it walks onto the court.)
10. Simpson is Homer-Sexual and not the pinnacle of cultural enlightenment. How about, say, a top J. Kyle Kinner and Seth Beane nation’s golf course/permanent rest facilities. Or maybe:
11. We are not the all-time, top ten best jokes relating to major natural disasters; read them once in a while.
12. Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas is not the Davidson College motto.
13. You’re lucky to get fourteen things! Do you think it’s easy to come up with this level of humor week in and week out? If we had a nickel for every time we had to listen to you people complain about our column, we'd have a buck!
14. Bonus Thing—John Burns is a hack. Can’t he just sit in France, eat Brie, and cheese on French babes like all the other American fools?

Have a good break, you lazy, apathetic @#$%&. C-ya.

Got A Reaction? Write Opinions c/o The Editors. Perhaps add to the fact that women’s voices are not heard, that their opinions are not taken seriously.