14 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991

Sports

Photo By Holt Hathaway

Offense Can't Finish In Loss To Rhodes

By Chris Hood

Despite eight trips inside the Rhodes 25-yard line, Davidson could only muster 9 points in a 13-9 defeat to the
Lynx Saturday at Richardson Field. Although Davidson outplayed Rhodes in the middle of the field, a lost fumble, an interception,
two missed field goals, and several costly penalties deep in Lynx territory led to the ‘Cats' demise.

“It’s so hurtful because you feel like you’re playing an awfully good football team...and you have a chance to make
something happen. It’s just so frustrating,” Head Coach Dave Fagg said.

Alden Smith returned the opening kickoff 58 yards to the Rhodes 36, but on the following three plays the ‘Cats
lost 2 yards and were forced to punt. The Lynx marched ahead and reached the Davidson 18 before linebacker Bill
Evans sacked Drew Robinson and the ‘Cats defense held Rhodes on a fourth-down conversion attempt.

The teams traded possessions with the ball remaining in Davidson territory for much of the rest of the quarter. With
time running out in the first quarter, Trey Babin scored on a first and goal effort; Andy Likes’ extra point
gave the Lynx a 7-0 advantage.

With 5:50 remaining in the first half, Mike Wright took a handoff from Richard Howell and scampered 11 yards to
put Davidson on the scoreboard. After the ‘Cats' extra point attempt sailed wide, the Lynx led 7-6.

Davidson reached the Rhodes 11 with 14 seconds left in the half, but Howell was sacked and the ‘Cats, without
any timeouts to spare, headed to the locker room down a point.

The ‘Cats defense continued to stiffen in the third quarter, allowing Rhodes only 16 yards of total offense for the
second straight period. Offensively, Davidson still found itself stymied by the ‘Luck of the Lynx.’ Howell engineered a drive which,
aided by a face mask call against Rhodes, gave the ‘Cats a first and goal from the visitors’ three-yard line.
Three plays later, however, Rhodes recovered a fumble off the snap and thwarted another outstanding opportunity for Davidson.

After missing a 32-yard field goal attempt nearly four minutes earlier, Drew Fassett nailed a 42-yarder with 10:49 left in
the contest to give Davidson its first lead, 9-7.

Rhodes countered Davidson’s score with a touchdown of its own on their next possession when Robinson connected with Greg Ritter
on a 17-yard strike. The Lynx were unsuccessful on their two-point conversion attempt, but the score was 13-9 with 7:25
remaining.

Smith’s 63-yard kickoff return to the Rhodes 31 provided the ‘Cats with another chance to take the lead. The offense
sputtered, though, and a missed field goal from 40 yards turned the ball over to the Lynx.

See "Football” on page 15.

Duke Victory Quiets Record Davidson Crowd

By Tom Price

The Davidson soccer team opened its home schedule Wednesday night in a tightly-contested match against 5th-ranked Duke. The ‘Cats lost
2-0 as Duke scored both goals in the second half. The match was the first to be played on Richardson
Field, which was renovated over the summer to accommodate soccer. A record crowd of 1,860 was on hand to see
the first Davidson soccer game played under lights. This crowd broke the previous attendance record of 1,352, set last Homecoming.

The loss to Duke left the Wildcats with a 1-3-1 record against five opponents who were all ranked in the
nation’s top 20. Coach Charlie Slagle had hoped his men would win half of these games, but he remains thoroughly
optimistic about the rest of the season.

“I am very optimistic about the rest of the season.” Slagle said. “We are definitely not out of the hunt
for an NCAA bid.”

The first half was tight and both teams had good opportunities toScore. The defense was held strong by the “air
attack” of Craig Omli and Cliff Castelloe and the consistency of Matt Spear and Ed Denning. On the offensive end,
Davidson had many chances but failed to find the net. Just eight minutes into the second half, Duke scored on
a shot by freshman Jason Kreis. The Wildcats rallied and threatened to tie the contest several times later in the
half. Seniors Spider Wormuth and Lance Long each got off powerful shots that were saved by Duke’s goalkeeper. Junior Phelps
Sprinkle had an excellent shot late in the second half which hit the goal frame. With four minutes left in
the game, Duke senior Clint Carnell dashed any last hopes for a Davidson upset with a shot that deflected off
of a Davidson player before finding its way into the net.

In these first five games, Davidson has managed to score only two goals. The loss of senior All-American Rob Ukrop
has obviously hurt the team’s scoring capabilities. Last year Ukrop and the graduated Peter Cobb combined for more than 60%
of the team’s scoring. Slagle said, “We are looking for primary scorers, but it is tough to find a scorer
when you’re playing top 20 teams.” Slagle said that the team doesn’t “have a guy who can score 15 goals,
so we need a bunch who can score 5 or 6.” The lack of scoring has not been entirely because
of a lack of shots. Against Duke, Davidson actually outshot the Blue Devils 11 to 8. Their inability to score
in these opening games seems to be the result of learning to play without Ukrop, bad luck, and excellent defense
by the opponent.

Considering the loss of Ukrop, the Wildcats completed their rigorous opening five games in commendable fashion. They have demonstrated a
rigid defense which should only get better as the season goes along. On the offensive end, the ‘Cats are struggling
to find the right combinations up front to provide scoring. Coach Slagle said that he is moving sophomore Ben Hayes
up to the offensive end of the field, reasoning that Hayes’ height and knack for the goal should create more
opportunities to score. Most importantly, the team has clearly demonstrated that it can play with anyone in the nation. They
have “held their own” in each of these five games and managed to knock off Columbia and tie sixth-ranked Carolina.

The respect that the team sought at the beginning of the season has apparently been gained. In a change from
past years when teams would overlook the Wildcats, Slagle said this year “people are ready for us.” Although this negates
any advantage of surprise, Slagle said, “That’s the way we like it.” The ‘Cats schedule resumes Friday night at UNC-Greensboro.
The Spartans have a brand new 3,200-seat stadium which has been sold out for every game so far. UNC-G has
had an inconsistent season thus far, but the Spartans showed their ability in an upset of 8th-ranked North Carolina State.

Senior Rob Ukrop, the Davidson soccer team’s co-captain and leading scorer, has announced that he will redshirt this season and
come back to play next fall. Ukrop’s season ended in the second half of the game at North Carolina when
he broke the tibia of his left leg. Ukrop’s return greatly bolsters hope for the 1992 season. Currently, there are
9 juniors on the team, all of whom enjoy considerable playing time. The result will be a very experienced team
next season. Last season Ukrop was third in the nation in scoring and was selected as a second-team All-American. Coach
Charlie Slagle said, “Rob’s return already insures me of the greatest recruiting class I’ve ever had.”

On third down, Steve Waters deflected a Robinson pass and Evans made a diving interception.
