THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991

JSA Focus: Hitting The Trails In Lander, Wyoming
By Julian Cochran

It’s that fantastic and exciting time in each of our dreams that begins upon entering the bizarre and mostly confusing world of college...JY A! Each year, many of us at Davidson set off and wander away from the solid and never-changing foundations of what we call college life. With our hearts filled with grief over not being able to slave and stress over papers and exams or endure the fabled weekend court parties for a whole semester or worse, the whole year, we take that giant leap to begin the process of what our parents call “finding yourself.” I’ve been pleased that The Davidsonian has printed articles on what some of my other classmates did on their semesters abroad, because I’ve been wanting to know if their time off was as rewarding as mine.

Photo Courtesy of Julian Cochran
Julian Cochran located on top of "Jackass Pass" (Alt. 10,560) while backpacking in the Wind River Range.

Way back in 1965, even before Birkenstocks were in vogue, a good-old farm boy by the name of Paul Petzholdt started a wilderness expedition school for East coast, city-slicker kids just like you and me! Well, old Paul operated his school out of Lander, Wyoming, and used to take these aforementioned kids up into the woods near the Grand Tetons, close to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Once out in the woods, these kids would generally be stuck with old Paul for thirty days. By the time they returned to the East coast, well, they had learned just about everything about wilderness camping, cooking, packing, climbing, and general survival that Paul knew. And, after being the youngest person ever to climb the Grand Teton (which he did at age 14, and he was only the second person to do so successfully) as well as being the head of the Colorado Outward Bound School for many years, he knew a good deal about wilderness survival.

In the 1980s and 1990s, NOLS has emerged as being one of the premier schools of outdoor education. So, the whole story of Paul relates back to a kid from North Carolina, that would be me, who decided in the Spring of 1990 that he would do a Fall Semester in the Rockies. My decision to do a ninety-four day wilderness course was not an easy one. I had originally planned to go abroad, and do the foreign study thing until I decided, “Hey-if you can’t enjoy the beauty that your own country has to offer, how can you enjoy anything?” So I got a NOLS brochure. And I applied. And I got in. The whole thing seemed so far away and completely foreign to what I was used to, that I had no idea of what I was getting into: intense physical demands and environmental hazards. And let me tell you, I was so nervous flying out to Wyoming that I could barely swallow. I think

Continued on Page 13

By Sara Sadowski

With the war in the Middle East escalating, and no hope of a peaceful solution, some consider it futile to look back to see what went wrong. But one issue still lingers in the minds of many: is this a war for oil? Even President Bush admits that oil is a primary consideration in this war, and it would be either naive or stupidity for any American to think otherwise. Our nation is the nation most dependent on oil. It is also the most dependent on foreign oil.

We are a nation obsessed with consumption, and this realization leads many to inquire about alternative energy methods. Could our nation survive without such a vast dependency on oil? Do we really need to be fighting this war for oil? Whether or not one agrees that this is a war for oil, one must inevitably face the grave situation the United States is in: our dependence on oil has drained our country’s oil resources and our unwillingness to change our consuming habits may be the greatest downfall of our future.

The facts are clear. The United States uses oil half as efficiently as Japan. Our cars get fewer miles per gallon than any other industrialized nation. Most of our oil is foreign oil, since the continental United States holds less than five percent of the world’s oil reserves. Fossil fuels are the cause of a leading emergency facing our generation, namely global warming. So why are we so unwilling as a nation to change our habits in order to make our futures brighter and longer-lasting? Are we simply too stubborn, comfortable, or set in our ways to try to pull together and change? Are we willing to sacrifice ourselves,our nation, and our world for the sake of immediate gratification? Come on! You and I together have got to change our ways so that we have a future, and so that we don’t take our future away! Here are some changes we can all make, starting right this very moment. When you need to go to the post office or a meeting, walk. When it’s cold outside and you would rather take a ride up the hill, put on a hat. When you go to buy a new car, look at its efficiency, not just for your wallet, but also for your air. Make sure that before you turn up the heat, the windows are closed. Carpool. Drive the speed limit. Recycle. Plant a tree. Turn off the water while you brush your teeth. Turn out the lights when you leave your room or a room in Chambers. Most importantly, talk about the environment and reducing consumption with others. Everyone should be aware and active in protecting the environment and our futures. Knowledge about this nation’s habits, as well as your own habits, can really make a difference. Maybe, if we all start to make a difference, oil will not be a factor which takes our sons and daughters away to war. Just think about it.

(The information used in this article was taken from an editorial in Greenpeace, November/December 1990, vol. 15, no. 6.)

The Incredible Ease Of Well Being
By Marlo Cobb

D.A. Thompson showed up at my door the other day with a Smith & Wesson. I wasn’t home. Later he saw me walking across campus. There was a chase... After 2 seconds he stopped and had a coughing fit, so I live to write another article.

Here’s a fact for you: Right after New Year’s, the average city health club signs 20-30 new members per day. The number diminishes drastically as the year rolls on, of course, but January 1 and its resolutions are a large part of what keeps health clubs in business. Right about now is when lack of time and lack of motivation lead to forgotten New Year’s resolutions. Have you given up yet?

If you have no time to exercise for a while, don’t despair. Unlike on-again-off-again diets, “yo-yo” exercise habits aren’t harmful. You can always rebuild muscle; it’s adaptable to stress situations after extreme couch-potato periods. Obviously, repeated contraction of muscle fibers against resistance causes muscles to increase in size, as well as in strength. The strength part is a more important result of exercise for women, however, because although their muscle fibers are identical to men’s, their generally smaller body frames and low levels of testosterone (a hormone which builds protein) don’t allow for the muscle buildup which occurs in men.

Just like fat cells, you’re born with all the muscle fibers you'll ever have. When you are inactive, these fibers shrink, or atrophy. Muscular endurance, the ability that muscles have to turn oxygen into energy, greatly decreases after 3-4 weeks of inactivity, but muscular strength takes longer to disappear -- up to a year of inactivity should do it. The more inactive you are, the faster this will happen. A worst-case scenario is probably having to have a limb in a cast for a month or so, as anyone who has broken a leg will understand. And for astronauts, a no-gravity situation is another sure way to weaken muscle tissue.

Metabolism is a factor, too. Most people think of a high metabolism as something inherently good; you will burn more calories per minute at any given activity. But with inactivity, your muscles will atrophy faster, as well. Metabolism applies to all bodily functions; when your metabolism is high, everything about your system is sped up, compared to a person with a low metabolism. This is one explanation for why NASA’s experimental rats’ muscles atrophied five times faster in space than humans’ would.

So, you’re inactive. You’re a Davidson student, after all, and there’s no time. Well, if you’re not working out, you could take the stairs in Chambers, walk to your 8:15 instead of driving up the hill ... anything helps. In the long run, however, nothing can take the place of routinely working out in some way, so get back into it, eventually. Don’t jump back into the before-couch-potato routine, though. Work your way back up. A formerly inactive muscle under too much stress is a damaged muscle. “No pain, no gain” is out.

And it’s never too late -- the muscular weakness associated with older folks is due partly to a less active lifestyle. A study done involving women in their mid-60s to mid-80s shows that strength can be regained with exercise even in later years. From this and other studies, it can even be inferred that well-meaning friends and family who “help out” elderly acquaintances by doing their chores (laundry, cleaning house, etc.) for them may actually be taking away an important way for them to keep in shape.