NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Condoms Accompany AIDS Newspaper Series

PENSACOLA, Fla. (CPS) - Students who picked up a copy of the student newspaper at Pensacola Junior College on Nov.
6 found a surprise attached - a free condom. The condoms went with a package of stories and editorials about
AIDS, sexually transmitted diseases, and unwanted pregnancy. The newspapers were distributed at the college’s three campuses in Pensacola, Milton, and
Warrington. Student government leaders criticized the paper, The Corsair, for the move and called it a publicity stunt. But the
editors said they were trying to make a statement that condoms will help prevent the spread of AIDS and sexually
transmitted diseases.

Lotteries Aren’t Beneficial, Professors Say

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (CPS) - Three University of North Florida professors have written a book that says state lotteries aren’t what
they’re cracked up to be. In “The Economic Consequences of State Lotteries,” Mary Borg, Paul Mason, and Stephen Shapiro write
that lottery systems are so flawed they actually siphon funds from other state revenue sources. The book concludes that for
every dollar a state earns from the lottery, it loses 23 cents in sales or excise tax items players would
have bought if they weren't spending the money on a lottery ticket. The book bases its findings on a random
sample of 439 Floridians.

Student Dies After Drinking Contest

GAINESVILLE, Fla. (CPS) - For Larry K. Wooten, 21, a drinking challenge from his roommates proved fatal. The University of
Florida student died Nov. 5 after drinking 23 shots of alcohol, authorities said. Wooten and his three roommates were at
a local bar, The Mill, when Wooten’s roommates challenged him to break a drinking record. Wooten downed 23 shots of
various alcohols in one hour, Gainesville police said. The bar was offering a two-for-one special. Wooten’s roommates took him home
shortly after he finished his last shot. He later started vomiting and passed out. An ambulance was called and he
was taken to the hospital about 2:15 a.m. Wooten was pronounced dead at 3:45 a.m. Wooten’s blood alcohol level was
not immediately known, but police say blood alcohol levels that prove fatal are usually about .40. The Alachua County Sheriff’s
Department is investigating the overdose since it occurred at a bar located outside the city limits.

Recycle this Davidsonian

F.L.A.G. Continued from page 1

money allocation which is later to be approved by the Senate,” Covington said. Prem Manjooran, Senior President, opened the Senate
dialogue by expressing his “disturbance by the controversy that has been generated by this issue.” Manjooran emphasized that F.L.A.G.'s purpose
was “merely an attempt for support and structure.” Courtney Nichols, a member of F.L.A.G., followed by stressing that support of
this group is “not an endorsement of the lifestyle.” “We have tried other methods for support groups but they have
not worked. Here, we have a way to create a community without fear or retribution. This is really a positive
thing and should not be viewed as a threat to anybody,” Nichols said. T.K. Tibby, freshman senator and member of
F.L.A.G., echoed the sentiments of Nichols. “I support this group because it supports understanding in the community. Being black, I
am used to not being accepted; F.L.A.G. will provide support for the homosexual community at Davidson,” Tibby said. A few
senators expressed concern of their constituents that approval of F.L.A.G. was in some ways sanctioning the practice of homosexuality. “In
a lot of people’s eyes, supporting F.L.A.G. is indirectly condoning homosexuality,” David Wright, Phi Delta Theta senator, said. In addition,
senators expressed concern over voting for their elected constituency. “You have to be careful how you vote, we are elected
to represent a house or class. It is not your personal opinion, you should vote for the consensus, not yourself,”
Paul Rybiski, senior senator, said. The Senate then voted and passed the charter, with only three abstentions, Rybiski, John Burns,
Sigma Phi Epsilon senator, and Duncan Spears, Kappa Sigma senator, and one no vote, Wright. Rybiski explained his abstention from
the vote by stating that he personally supported the group’s charter, “however in my capacity as class senator, I felt
that I couldn’t vote in favor after many students had voiced opinions against it tome.” One concern expressed by many
of the Senate members was the amount of student funding that would be allotted to F.L.A.G. “There is a lot
of violent opposition to the college financing this group,” Wright said. Covington mentioned one possible remedy for this concern, illustrating
a past instance when Davidson parents and students opposed a group’s funding through the Student Activities Fee. In this case,
it was possible for students to obtain vouchers from the college to refrain from financially supporting this group, although Covington
noted it amounted to “only about four dollars.”

Williams addressed this concern over college financing of the F.L.A.G. group by comparing it to paying taxes. “We all pay
government taxes but we don’t get to choose where all of it goes. There will be an option for those
who wish to abstain from financially supporting F.L.A.G.,” Williams said.

DCTV Continued from page 1

believes that in late spring or early next year an anchor and video crew will be sent to the games.
These games will not be broadcast live because as of now DCTV does not have a satellite dish. The programming
on DCTV will also include non-Davidson produced programs distributed by U-NET. This is a program based out of Brown University
that showcases the best nationwide college-produced programs.

Vauclain also commented on the fact that DCTV is inviting students to do their own shows. Vauclain said, “This station
is for students and we definitely want them to do what they want to do, be it comedy hours, talk
shows, news, whatever, we'll put it on.”

DCTV is run by a management board that decides what shows will be aired. The Program Director is Kathryn Casey
and the Production Coordinator is Tonja Lecklitner. The station staff of DCTV is the former Union Board which will produce
some shows but welcomes other students to produce their own shows. Students interested in airing their own program can contact
Casey with their ideas.

DCTV will also include an announcement board that will contain a calendar of events and any additional advertisements or announcements
concerning happenings on campus. This board will run when no other programming is scheduled. Vauclain believes that DCTV will start
small and will be a lot of just the announcement board for the first few months. The cable channel will
also air the DCTV study breaks that are shown in the 900 Room every other Monday night. DCTV will also
continue to sponsor these food study breaks. The premiere of DCTV will occur at a study break held in the
900 Room at 10:00 Monday, November 18.

Faculty Continued from page 1

members “question the appropriateness” of the cash award, while hearing others speak in favor of the cash bonus. He emphasized
that all of the faculty, regardless of their opinion about the use of the money, “are grateful for the award.”

Dr. Thomas Kazee, associate professor of political science, also said that he has heard much talk among the faculty concerning
this award. He said many members were concerned about finding a use for the money which would be “consistent with
the principle of furthering teaching excellence.” Kazee also said the discussion “makes me feel good about our faculty.”

Both Kazee and Jones mentioned that they have heard numerous suggestions for possible uses of the money, if it were
to be decided that the cash was not to be given for purely personal uses. Kazee said that the majority
of the talk he has heard has been in favor of “re-investing” the money into the College. Jones also said
that he has heard “more voices of concern, than those of satisfaction.” Kazee also reiterated the appreciation the faculty has
for the establishment of the award in the first place.

2 Positions Available - SIGN-UPS FOR THE MEDIA BOARD

The Media Board is an advisory council responsible for overseeing student media. It is staffed by students, who monitor performance
and provide guidance.
