THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

Let's Have A More Flexible Ticket Policy
By Will Canu ’94 and Jennifer Humphrey ‘94

Life shouldn’t be so complex. Why can’t adults open child-proof bottles? Why do small people wear extra-large shirts? What are
Umbros made of? Why do you park in a driveway and drive on a parkway? Why does D.A. Thompson whine
about school spirit and not attend games? Well, maybe we can answer that last one...

Could it be the ticket policy? Maybe D.A. went to the ticket office to get a ticket a day after
all his friends had gotten their seats. To his great dismay, his seat was in a different section, a different
row, and might as well have been in a different country. Weighing the decision of either cheering alone in the
midst of apathetic students brooding over their schedule for the week or snuggling up to a bag of microwave popcorn
and a brewski (unavailable at Baker during events under NCAA regs), D.A. decided that he didn’t want to be a
loner in public and went for the popcorn.

Has something like this ever happened to you? Maybe if D.A. could have sat with his friends, he would have
attended the game, but the current ticket policy restricted this would-be avid supporter. This problem can be circumvented if the
student section was made to be general admission (i.e., first come, first serve seating). By this process, it would not
matter when a student got their ticket; they could still rally for the Cats with their friends. Imagine the ease
of cruising into the game with your buddies and sitting wherever there was room, but knowing you would be together.

So, you’re a popular student, similar to our bud D.A., and you have, oh say, fifty friends. With dates (a.k.a
“Social Function”), general admission would allow even this crowd to sit together, though they would have to arrive a bit
early. But perhaps this crew likes to be fashionably late? They could still be together if they planned ahead and
obtained the tickets for the seats in the first three rows that would remain reserved seating. With the first three
rows of the student section remaining reserved, diehard basketball fanatics would still have the option to get up before dawn
to obtain these coveted seats to see eyeball to eyeball with Pat Holloway.

What would make this dream complete? How about allowing each student to be able to pick up ten tickets instead
of only five. After all, five tickets is only two couples and a fifth wheel, while ten makes an even
five.

But wait! D.A. has friends that don’t go to Davidson - lots of them. Every now and then they like
to visit to catch a good basketball game. Now, it just doesn’t seem polite to make them pay $6 for
a bleacher seat! All students have ten guest passes on their ID to bring guests into Baker Sports Complex (a
$5 value). Might we use these passes for basketball games? It surely would be nice, but this is far too
simple for the elaborate structural regulations of the Davidson ticket office. (Aren’t we paying those guys?)

To change the current ticket policy from reserved seating to general admission (save the first three rows) and to allow
guest passes to be used for basketball tickets is worth the effort. This will encourage souls like D.A. to leave
the popcorn in the dorm and go cheer on his team. Just these adjustments to the ticket policy will make
getting tickets less of a hassle, thereby making life just a little less complex.

Will Canu is a freshman from Greenwich, Connecticut, and Jennifer Humphrey is from Fort Myers, Florida.

FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM
Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization. Plus a chance at $5000 more! This program works!
No investment needed. Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50

Beyond Birkenstock
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

A Collection Of Quotations: Western Thought And War
Again, we haven’t gone crazy. If you can figure it out, this collection of quotes represents a distillation of human
thought and emotion in the face of some pretty complex societal issues. We support the prosecution of this war; if
we’re there, we had better get the job done. But killing people itself to itself relates itself to another.” Soren
Kierkegaard

“Strange is our situation here upon earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not knowing why, yet sometimes
seeming to divine a purpose... there is one thing we do impossible to carry out. Yet I keep them, because
in spite of everything I still believe that people are really good at heart. I simply can’t buildup my hopes
on a foundation consisting of confusion, misery, and death. I see the world gradually being turned into a wilderness, I
hear the ever-approaching thunder, which will destroy for any reason, and especially when a nation collectively decides such an action
must be taken, is sort of disconcerting. So we took a week (or maybe a little less) to pick out
some people and ideas we feel reflect the profound sadness with which an honorable nation must necessarily approach war. No
one value system—though Christianity and Western culture obviously present a set of beliefs concurrent with a theme of moral ambiguity.

“Here I stand; I can do none other so help me God.”
—Martin Luther

“...we cannot dedicate—we cannot consecrate—we cannot hallow—this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it...
it is for the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have
thus far so nobly advanced... that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain... and
that government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”
—Abraham Lincoln

“For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth... and
though worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God.”
—Job 19:25-26

“I knew a man... he was a common farmer... he was the father of five sons... and in them were
the fathers of sons... and in them were the fathers of sons.”
—Walt Whitman

“The human self is such a derived, established relation, a relation that relates itself to itself and in relating knows
that man is here for the sake of other men...”
—Albert Einstein

“Sir, when did we ever see you hungry and feed you? Or thirsty and give you anything to drink? Or
a stranger, and help you? Or naked, and clothe you? When did we ever see you sick or in prison,
and visit you? ‘When you did it unto the least of these, my brethren, you did it unto me.’”
—Matthew 25:37-40

“Cry for the broken tribe, for the law and custom that is gone. Aye, and cry aloud for the man
who is dead, for the woman and children bereaved. Cry, the beloved country, these things are not yet at an
end.”
—Alan Paton

“Never shall I forget that night, the first night in camp, which has turned my life into one long night,
seven times cursed and seven times sealed. Never shall I forget that smoke. Never shall I forget the little faces
of the children, whose bodies I
