THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

Davidson Sports

Blues Traveler & Rush Release New Compact Discs

By Chip Petree

Blues Traveler: Travelers & Thieves

The biggest fad at Davidson College last year wasn’t the mountain-bike boom or the sudden rush to get into a
pair of roller blades, but it was the music of Blues Traveler. One could hear the jangling beginnings of the
band’s song, “But Anyway,” from any party on the court at least three or four times (along with Widespread Panic’s
ever-present “Coconuts”).

The concert in Johnston Gym on December 8th of last year finally opened Davidson’s not-too-choosy ears to what Blues Traveler
was all about: downright funky blues with the overpowering wailing of John Popper’s harmonica. Well, Popper and the rest of
the Travelers are back with their second album from A&M Records entitled, Travelers and Thieves, a work that provides a
deeper look into the band’s unique style of rock/funk/blues songwriting.

The album begins with “The Tiding,” a spacey barrage of sound that leads into the first real track entitled, “Onslaught.”
This tune opens with a funky exchange between Bobby Sheehan’s bass guitar and Brendan Hill’s drums, but the funk is
soon melted by a noticeably heavier guitar sound from Chan Kinchla. The song remains quite heavy until an acoustic guitar
break ends the track.

The next track, “Ivory Tusk,” exhibits a Led Zeppelin influence in a very heavy chord break with Popper’s harmonica filling
in the emptiness in the tradition of Jimmy Page. “What’s For Breakfast” is very reminiscent of the first album in
both the mix of the instruments and the interplay between all four musicians. “I Have My Moments” features an acoustic
guitar and Popper’s vocal skills in an upbeat, jangling tune that is neatly followed by “Optimistic Thought,” another cheerful song
in which Popper exclaims, “We’re just spinning on some granite that we’d like to call a planet, and if you
need to contemplate, well here’s an optimistic thought.”

The eighth track, “Sweet Pain,” and the tenth track, “Support Your Local Emperor,” both follow in the mold of “Crystal
Flame” from the first album, yet they, like much of this record, lack the build-ups to the high-speed jams that
are easily the highlights of the first CD. The final track, “Mountain Cry,” is a slow blues song that features
a guest appearance on the Hammond organ and vocals by Gregg Allman.

Two tunes on the album, however, seem oddly out-of-place. “The Best Part” sounds like a typical, formula song that is
quite boring and uncreative, while “Bagheera” sounds like a bad outtake from Paul Simon’s Graceland album.

Blues Traveler’s debut was one of the strongest to come out in a few years, and even though this effort
is good, it does not quite measure up. Those people wanting to hear “But Anyway” will find some solace in
the ninth track “All In The Groove,” which features a nice little vocal break, but overall, this album will not
appeal to the casual BT listener.

Rush: Roll the Bones

I have been a fanatical Rush fan since I was in the fourth grade, and have since watched the band
progress from the rocking Hemispheres and Moving Pictures albums to the much tamer sounds of Hold Your Fire and Presto.
Rumors would always precede each new album such as “Neil Peart (the drummer) has cancer” and “Yeah, man, this album
is gonna have lots more guitar on it.” But, nevertheless, Neil never contracted a fatal disease (thank god) and the
albums grew weaker and weaker with the constant infusion of keyboards by bassist/keyboardist Geddy Lee and the gradual disappearance of
Alex Lifeson’s once-strong guitar playing. Yet, no rumors were heard before the release of the band’s seventeenth album, Roll the
Bones, meaning either that no one cares anymore or that something has changed.

Once more under the production of Rupert Hine, Bones sounds much like the previous album, Presto. The first track, “Dreamline,”
is an upbeat song that does, in fact, exhibit a slightly heavier sound than previous efforts. This is followed by
“Bravado,” a slower, light song that unfortunately is reminiscent of weaker works. The title track sounds similar to some of
the work on the band’s 1984 release, Grace Under Pressure. Lee and Peart exhibit the tight relationship between the bass
and drums that has long held them as the best individuals in their fields. Lifeson’s acoustic guitar also adds a
nice touch that is accented by a

See "Rush" on page 8.

Matt Bumstead: Whistlin’ Dixie

... just desserts (songs like “Elvira,” “The Devil Went Down To Georgia,” or “Forever and Ever,
