THE DAVIDPHONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991

Registrar Announces Changes to Time/Space Continuum
By Irwin Lipschitz

The Registrar has announced the new expanded schedule for Davidson for the years '92 - '93. Under the new system,
the Davidson school year will be lengthened to 16-week semesters, the longest in the nation. The longer semesters, however, will
not have an effect on the actual duration of the school year - the extra time will be taken out
of vacations. The move is the first in Davidson’s new “Quantity over Quality” Campaign set to begin during the '92
- '93 year. This exciting new program portends many exciting changes to the Davidson experience.

Senior Winn Maddrey Caught In Shocking Shower Scene

After the installment of 16-week semesters, the Registrar announced, students will be required to take night classes, which will be
offered from 7-12 each night. When asked if the new requirement seemed extreme, Sue Ross remarked, “Oh, don’t be silly.
There’s nothing students would enjoy more after a nice hot meal than 2 or 3 hours of Bio lab.” Soon,
the College plans to lengthen school days. For the Spring '93 semester, days will be expanded from 24 to 30
hours. Minutes will be expanded to 100 seconds as well. When asked if altering the space/time continuum to suit Davidson’s
new scheduling requirements didn’t seem a bit extreme, a senior administrator remarked, “Oh, no. We think the changes will be
best for the students. The college wants to bring the students the most for their education dollar. More is always
better.” Senior Mark Puckett commented, “Thank God I got out of this place before.”

Learn all the details, and read about the bionic love glove pictured here in the next Davidphonian!

It Will Be Done: 2025
By Izzy Sheareeus

This just released to Davidphonian staff: Quips and Cranks for 1989-1990 will be released in 2025!!! This is good news,
but it presents a problem for students who aren’t sure where they’ll be by then. Junior Jennifer Gibbs has only
planned her life through the year 2011 at this point, and thinks that by 2025 she’ll definitely be overseas. “Why
should I fly back from Africa,” she asks, “just to pick up some annual?” Why, indeed? Because this annual will
be the yearbook to end all yearbooks. Imagine - graduation pictures from the classes of '91 and '92, plus exclusive
previously unprinted excerpts from Kitty Kelley’s upcoming novels, The Life and Times of Dean Terry and The Unauthorized Biography of
President Jobe.

“But how will we remember to come pick it up?” asks senior Holt Foster. “I mean, I'll be 55!!” Not
to worry, Holt-- Q&C will be sending you an announcement that April. It'll go something like this: “Remember 1990? When
you were still in shape, when you still had hair? Take yourself back to the days of Hurricane Hugo, when
Saddam Hussein was still receiving CIA funds and Bush was still wallowing in wimpdom ... Leave the grandchildren at Day
Care! Exercise your blue chip stock options! Drive, fly, hobble on down to Davidson College (Remember us? We’re the ones
who still ask for money every November) to pick up the new, improved, expanded Quips and Cranks, 1989-90. (Note to
juniors, sophomores, and freshmen of 1989-90: Don’t worry if 2025 is not your class’s year for a reunion; we’ll put
you in the Martin Guest House Complex.)

Continued from Page 1

William F. Buckley, Jr. has vowed a #1 ranking for Davidson in next year’s College Wholesomeness issue of The National
Review. Vice-President of Academic Affairs Robert Williams could be heard giggling with delight at news of the announcement.

Some of the available courses include Girlies and Busch Beer: Maximizing Your Potential (The Dice Man), Maintaining the Nuclear Family
(Keeping Her Butt in the Kitchen) (Kiam), Special Topics in Constitutional Law: Holding the ERA up in Committee (Thornberry), and
Servicing Mr. Happy (1001 Shortcuts to the Mexican Border) (Clayton). Courtney Nichols and Bess Murchison, chairmen of the Committee for
Girls’ Stuff, see this program as a window of opportunity, from which Davidson students will learn the holiness of our
educational past. “We think it’s, like, rilly cool!” they bubbled.

Mindless Continued from Page 1

wondered if the color clashed with the red and black bricks. “Maybe they could put up a green one next
time” was her suggestion. A baseball player approached (carefully) by a Davidphonian staff member did not like it, saying “bows
is for queers.” A noted Davidson feminist liked the new bow, though her reasons were different. “To me, it represents
the bondage in which all men hold all women. We’re working on some sort of anti-male demonstration to be held
some time next week underneath this symbol we must teach all people to despise.” In separate but related incidents, five
of the Patterson Court houses have begun displaying bows as well. A KA spokesgentleman offered a different slant on the
issue.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

everything went loony.”

We're Going Back!
By Sneaky Trusty

At an alcohol-soaked reception last week, an inner group of vanguard trustees overwhelmingly voted to rejoin the Southern Conference Thursday.
They cited as their reason a need to get back to Davidson’s glory years of '63 & '64 when Davidson
really mattered. When students approached the trustees about the move at the reception on Thursday, the grand old patriarchs drunkenly
slurred, “Hah! Why don’t you tell the SGA to draft a resolution, and we’ll get right on it.”

Addressing faculty concerns about the return, one trustee remarked, “They don’t really have all the facts. Professors have always been
way off in La-La land. Especially the one that failed me in Bible 101 way back in ’38.”

“We need to get back to the days when we were kicking the crap out of Duke and North Carolina.
I think we could even make a run at UNLV if we could get Craig, Larry, Stu, and Daniel to
throw some more money Terry’s way,” the impressionable man blurted.

Apparently, they have been considering dropping the academic part of the Davidson curriculum for some while now. It should be
a relatively short time before the out-of-touch professors are given their long-overdue walking papers.

The SGA has planned a meeting that, in the words of President Cammie Covington, “calls for immediate discussion. We don’t
know if we can go so far as a resolution; that hasn’t been done in a few years, but we
sure can discuss it.”

“There have been a lot of egg-throwing wars lately, mainly us, PiKA, and SAE. This ribbon is a symbol of
our support for the guys who have been hit, and it won’t come down until all of us have gotten
our egg-stained clothes back from the laundry.”

PiKA had a similar explanation. One long-haired dude of the house said, “Well, normally we’re too laid back to make
any statements, but if this means we support dicking the Hods, we’re all for it.”

SAE put up their ribbon in an effort to improve relations with the rest of the campus. “We figure that
if the administration up the hill sees that we’re taking the right stand on this soldier issue, they might like
us better.”

SPE placed their bow on their tree, right under that chair. “We’re not going to be upstaged by anyone,” was
their explanation, “the other houses threw eggs, we threw eggs. The other houses put up bows, so we will. It’s
that simple.”

Rusk was the last house on the court to display a bow. One Ruskie on her way to eat told
The Davidphonian, “Well, SAE and KA did it, so it must be cool.”

While unwilling to comment on the library’s new bow, Dean Terry did praise the Patterson Court changes, “If they are
watching the news and want to make a statement about it, more power to them.”

This comment proved foreboding by week’s end, though, when Bob Collins revealed his opinion on the subject. “This is my
campus, I don’t like ribbons or the color yellow. Smile! Tomorrow, you might be dead!”

Sellout - Continued from page 1

Osmond as the Chairman of the Music Department. New York businessman John Gotti will be taking over the college’s finances.
“Revenues from Gotti’s undisclosed investments are expected to triple within the next fifteen minutes,” said Ivan Boesky, Chairman of the
Economics Department.

Although currently awaiting trial for various tawdry activities during his tenure as President of USC, Holderman is convinced he will
be able to serve as Davidson’s President without difficulty. “I’m gonna beat this rap. It’s just a bunch of pointy-headed
intellectual wussies trying to get back at me for being a good administrator. Those liberal arts punks think they can
bag me, HA! Davidson’s made a good choice in canning those geeks they call teachers. Under my leadership, we’re gonna
redefine education,” claimed Holderman.

Not everyone was pleased about the trustee decision. A movement among the former faculty to convince the trustees to reverse
their decision, led by former professor Gill Holland, was swiftly crushed by former L.A. Police Chief, Darryl Gates, Davidson’s new
Director of Public Safety. Holland’s battered body has served as a warning among the former faculty not to challenge the
trustee measure.

“D is for Dollars, and dollars are for Davidson,” exclaimed one trustee, “anybody who has a problem with that is
the kind of pinko-commie yankee who supports things like Division III athletics. People like that need to be shot, or,
at the very least, be kept the hell off the tennis courts, that’s for damn sure,” said the trustee, who
demanded that we not reveal his name.

Three members of Davidson’s staff will be kept on, however. Athletic Director Terry Holland and Psychology professor Julio Ramirez have
been deemed famous enough to remain, while Dean Williams shall keep his job, as his emphasis on publication has been
found admirable. Holland and Ramirez could not be reached for comment.
