THE DAVIDSONIAN. CAMPUS LIVING
Monday, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

Oma Blaise: Sexuality & Health
By Oma Blaise

It has been 150 years since the mass production of condoms was made possible; it has been as long since there has been a real breakthrough in contraceptives for men. As Mark Cohen points out in his article in the September 1991 issue of Gentlemen’s Quarterly magazine (“In Search of the Male Pill”), some obstacles in the path of research are “the relentlessness of the male reproductive tract,” the reluctance of pharmaceutical companies to pick up contraceptive research and production, and the fact that AIDS has made the use of condoms a practical necessity.

Although nothing marketable has yet been developed, there have been several promising advances toward the production of a viable “male pill” akin to women’s oral contraceptives. Two methods are seen as particularly likely to end up as consumer items.

One method is the injection of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) antagonists. LHRH antagonists block the signal to the brain that triggers the reproductive process. As with “the pill,” a supplementary hormone must be administered with the LHRH antagonists. Further research is focused on finding a more acceptable method of administering the chemical than nightly or weekly injections.

A second method is a device called the Shug, invented by Dr. Lourens Zaneveld. The Shug is a silicone plug that actually blocks sperm from being released into the seminal fluid. Although surgery is required to implant and remove the device, the procedures are very minor. This is admittedly a more permanent method of contraception, but the rate of reversibility should be exceedingly higher than that of a vasectomy.

Due to questions about whether men would actually use the new contraceptives, the pharmaceutical industry has been somewhat reluctant to lend much-needed support to the continued research on these two methods. It will be at least ten years, according to scientists, before America will see a new male contraceptive.

Archives: Marc Overcash
Tombstone Revives Forgotten Tale of Bravery

Curiosity dragged me into Davidson’s cemetery, the one on North Main, where I, careful where my feet fell, wandered about and glanced at tombstones. There, just beyond the flourishing water oak and the circling path lies a row of white marble obelisks. Each obelisk bore a seal of either the Eumenean Society or the Philanthropic Society. One in particular caught my eye. The wind and rain had weathered its words into whispers of its former self. I sought to read the shadow-like impressions with my eyes and fingertips, but could only decipher the name: David Yonan. But the name was enough. What time destroyed, the archives preserved. And what the archives preserved, I will relate.

Procrastination Plagues
By Curt Bickers

David Yonan, a son of a Persian aristocrat, graduated from Davidson in 1900. A month after his graduation he attended a Presbyterian picnic at old Wither’s place, River View. Of course, with a picnic by a river, there was swimming. From what I gather, the river was quite wide with depths below 30 feet. Around 4:00, two swimmers were suddenly overcome with exhaustion: Ralph Helper and Fred Hobbs. Mr. Madison Maxwell heard their cries for help, leapt in the water, and started swimming. Hobbs, who graduated in Yonan’s year, insisted that he was alright and that Maxwell should concentrate on Helper. Unfortunately, as soon as Maxwell left, Hobbs sank.

Although he was not much of a swimmer, Yonan, who was on the shore, immediately dove in to save Hobbs. He managed to bring Hobbs to the surface, but the effort exhausted him. Both men drowned before help could reach them. Yonan’s bravery and selflessness were remembered by those who knew him, and his story was preserved in the archives.

Has anyone ever approached you with the topic of discussion being the “Birds and the Bees”? Well, you sheltered Davidson students, animals teach us many things. For example, the swallow teaches us how to build. The bee teaches us how to work. An animal that is very important to the Davidson College student is the raven. Of course, everyone knows the raven represents ominous doom. Therefore, the raven and the tough Davidson workload go hand-in-hand. One very interesting piece of trivia which Dr. Holland conveyed to me about this bird was its squawk. It says,“Cras, cras!” ‘Cras,’ comes from an obscure root and means “tomorrow.” ‘Cras’ is part of the word “procrastination.” Procrastination means... well, just ask any Davidson student, and he or she can tell you. Countless scenarios come to mind when pondering the procrastinating scene at Davidson.

Scenario I: It is Friday night, the MCATs are two weeks away, and Betty has a big dilemma. The night before, she had taken a practice MCAT and had failed miserably on the Biology part. Not only was Biology her major, but she also felt most secure about that section of the MCAT. But tonight there are two court parties, not to mention games. “Ah!,” she exclaims, thinking about how she had been studying since the summer, and about how she can study all the next day. So she goes out and enjoys herself while the raven sits above her bedroom door saying, “Cras!”

Scenario II: Paul has two papers, one mid-term, and one heckuva headache. He has been up since the crack of dawn—diving practice, classes from morning until evening, and then work until nine at night. He knows he has not read the last two 300-page books for his class with a mid-term, and he has only the research done for his two papers. What’s more, the test is tomorrow at noon, one paper is due at five tomorrow afternoon, and the other paper is due in two days' time. His head has “I need rest!” written all over it, and his caffeine high is wearing off. “I can just take a short nap,” he thinks as he drifts off in the library at a quarter after nine in the p.m. He distinctly thinks he hears the sound of a raven squawking, “Cras!” when to his chagrin, he looks on the library wall and notices that it is a quarter until one in the a.m.

Seriously, procrastination affects everyone at Davidson. From papers to newspaper articles to asking someone to a date function, a swimmer, Yonan raced into the water to save Hobbs. His altruism, however, rivaled his strength, and the would-be Persian doctor faltered. From the shore, Rev. A. T. Graham, unable to swim, called Yonan back. But Yonan continued to struggle towards Hobbs until finally, the water dragged him down. Because of the lack of technology, Davidson was unable to ship his body back to Persia, and so Yonan was buried in the Davidson plot on July 13, 1900. The Eumenean Society erected the obelisk in memory of David Yonan. And after discovering his story, the words on his gravestone seem easier to read: “Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friend.”

Students, all students, at one time or another, have had some necessary but fearful bit of work which they have needlessly put off. Do we actually think it will go away? Most of the time, the raven of procrastination comes back to haunt us, when we recognize only too late, that if we had just one more hour of time, the task we neglected would be just a bit better.

In talking to students, the various ways they suggest to go about procrastinating include everything from playing music on the stereo, to going to the library (social scene central), to going on a Union break, to watching TV, to having sex with an acquaintance (yes, someone actually told me this, I am not that scandalous) or just driving around.

Why do students procrastinate? In many cases, students feel the task being put off is “overwhelming,” and is insurmountable at the time. One student replied, “I want the work to be perfect. If it is not, I start over.” Another said, “I do not necessarily want to procrastinate, it just happens. I just like to split my work up. I cannot study all of the time.”

The ominous doom of work looms over all Davidson students. But no Davidson student is here that cannot handle the workload, if enough time is given to it. So, the next time the raven of procrastination comes knocking at your chamber door, just try for once to tell it, “Nevermore!”