THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

13 Campus Living

Liz said, Dair said...

There's No Excuse For Not Lifting Weights

Liz said... Davidson students spend several hours every day working on their minds. The self-discipline this requires is amazing. But
what is even more amazing is that many don’t even spend a half an hour every other day working on
their bodies. Exercise should be a crucial part of our lives as college students. It is a great way to
relieve stress, to maintain or lose weight, and to keep healthy. For many reasons, my favorite exercise is weightlifting.

For those who hate sports, lifting is an ideal way to stay in shape. It burns calories and tones your
muscles at the same time. More than any other sport, it allows you to control which muscles you develop through
the weights and machines you use, so that you can build the body you want. Lifting, like any regular form
of exercise, will also raise your metabolism. This means you can eat more and not gain weight. For dieters, lifting
is the ideal exercise. Many people who lose weight actually get flabbier because they lose muscle as well as fat.
Lifting allows you to build muscle while you lose fat, so that your body is firm and toned. You need
no equipment—save an ID card to get into Baker Sports Complex—and the machines are very well made and easy to
use.

If you play sports, lifting will increase your strength and improve your performance. You will be able to run faster
and longer, kick harder, throw farther. Most sports require that team members spend at least an hour a week in
the weight room.

Lifting is a very positive way to expend energy. When you’re done, you feel like you’ve really accomplished something. You
will probably also be a lot easier to live with if you lift weights a few times a week. Instead
of spending your energy being stressed out and irritable, you will spend it pumping iron. Once you get in the
habit of lifting regularly, it will become an activity you look forward to. For all those days you sit in
class totally clueless, for all those nights of calculus hell, for times when absolutely nothing goes right and then something
worse happens, it will be a relief to know that you can go down to the weight room and do
something productive with your time, something good for yourself.

If none of this convinces you, then I challenge you to think of a good reason not to lift. “I
have no spare time” does not count because I have yet to meet anyone who cannot spare a half hour
three days a week to do something they really want to do. If after wasting at least this amount of
time racking your brain for an excuse, you can’t think of one, then you should be lifting weights.

Saving the Chattooga

By Amy Bertram

Recycle, reduce, reuse. Conserve water, electricity, and natural resources. I know, you’re tired of hearing the environmentalist pleas urging people
to help save our planet. So in an effort to alleviate the monotony of having the most common environmental tips
repeated to the point that you don’t help just for spite, the Davidson Environmental Action group decided to inform you
weekly on new and exciting ways to help “save the earth.”

Besides the everyday efforts, writing your senators about various issues is critical to make necessary changes. One of these is
to obtain more land surrounding the headwaters of the Chattooga River, from Cashiers to Highlands, N.C., to help preserve the
Chattooga watershed.

“Wild and Scenic.” No two adjectives better describe the 50-mile-long Chattooga River, states a publication from the Nantahala Outdoor Center
(NOC) outpost at the Chattooga encouraging people who paddle the river to help protect it.

Your best health regimen includes no less than two strength training sessions combined with three or more cardiovascular workouts. Less
than two sessions per week only strains your muscles, instead of strengthening them. Beginners should not try for more than
three sessions a week; it often proves too taxing and increases your likelihood of quitting. The first week or two
of training may leave you sore, but, just like anything else, this will fade with time and post-workout muscular fitness
should also be a priority.Of any good reasons not to lift, then a visit to the Lapko room in the
Baker Sports Complex is in order. See you there! Dair said...

One of the best things about the Chattooga River is its modest beginning in the mountains outside Cashiers, N.C. The
Chattooga snakes its way through the rugged terrain of the Carolinas, through rock gorges, and steeply wooded mountainsides. The Chattooga
is also one of the few remaining free-flowing streams in the Southeast. Stunning scenery and proximity to major urban areas
such as Atlanta, Greenville, and Charlotte bring thousands of visitors each year to the area. The region surrounding the Chattooga
has become a mecca for second homes and resort and golf course development.

As the publication states, “this popularity comes with a price. As this area grows and becomes more popular, the ever-increasing
development pressures will result in degradation of the pristine waters of the Chattooga from erosion, siltation, and sewage.” While the
main body of the river is protected under the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, many of the tributaries are
not. Protecting these sections is crucial to preserving not only the river’s surrounding watershed but also its distinct, untamed beauty.

Although much land has been acquired through the diligent work of the U.S. Forest Service and the Trust for Public
Land, the river is still in danger. The NOC needs people to write their Congressmen and Senators to aid in
the situation of this river. Call: Capitol Switchboard: (202) 225-3121 or write: U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515 or
U.S. Senate, Senate Office Bldg., Washington, D.C. 20510.

I encourage you to not only take action to protect the beautiful Chattooga River but to go on one of
the NOC’s expeditions down the river, especially the exhilarating Section IV. Environmental Action meets on alternate Mondays of each month.
For more information on this group, please contact Melissa Payne or Chris Moeling.

The health articles I caught between such pieces as “Makeup! Expert Tips for Beauty Dweebs” and “Guy Anxiety: His Eight
Greatest Love Fears,” but “Thinner Thighs in Ten Days” just doesn’t bring you the whole story. So, listed below is
a quick scan of some interesting points regarding weightlifting that I came across while checking some sources outside of Mademoiselle:

* Aerobics, running, walking, etc. just don’t cut it. While cardiovascular fitness is indisputably a must, serious consideration of anyone
trying to be health conscious. 65 percent of your muscles are above the waist. While aerobics class might be giving
your legs a good workout, it’s leaving more than mobility.

* For those who lift two to three times a week, a complete body workout is recommended. If you choose
to lift every day, alternate your upper and lower body workouts for maximum results. Resting your muscles for 48 hours
between workouts is your best bet.

* Most sources recommended spending between 15-30 minutes lifting. If it takes you less than 15 minutes, you probably have
poor technique. The Lapko room can be congested at times; it may take you longer to access all the machines.

* More repetitions with lower weights tone your muscles, while fewer reps with heavier weights increase strength.

* Women, for those of you who express concern about acquiring a bulky, masculine build, your excuses for avoiding strength
training are groundless. Weightlifting and Bodysculpting are two entirely different areas. Those looking to develop a defined and bulky body
spend hours in the weight room and begin with a strong background in strength training followed by mega repetitions with
lighter weights. 15-30 minutes of weight training will not give you a body of this kind. I can’t think of
any other reason to avoid the weight room; after all, Mark Puckett graduated - it’s acceptable for us to be
there now.

* Resistance is the key. It should take you no less than two seconds to lift a weight and four
to lower it. If it takes you less time than this, you are risking injury and not working your muscles
to their maximum capacity.

* Try to increase your weight by five percent each week or when 12-15 reps become easy for you. Otherwise,
stay with 8-12 reps.

* For those interested in weight loss: lean muscle burns 40-50 more calories per day than fat. By picking up
just three more pounds of muscle, you burn 120-150 more calories per day, even when you are sedentary. Increased metabolism
resulting from weight training also has been linked to the direct reduction of cholesterol in the blood, thus making your
cardiovascular workout even more effective.

* Thanks to Beth Manson for her help. If anyone has any questions regarding weight training or the Lapko room,
she is the woman to contact.
