THE DAVIDSONIAN. CAMPUS LIVING - MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991

Renee D. Godard, Visiting Assistant Professor of Biology. B.S. (Guilford), Ph.D. (expected 1991 - UNC-Chapel Hill).

NEW FACULTY

Minxin Pei, MacArthur Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science. B.A. (Shanghai International Studies), M.F.A. (University of Pittsburgh), M.A., Ph.D. (expected 1991 - Harvard).

Jennifer E. Stasack, Visiting Assistant Professor of Music and Composer-in-Residence. B.M., M.M. (University of Hawaii-Manoa), D.M.A. (expected 1991 - University of Cincinnati College).

Elizabeth C. Teviotdale, Visiting Assistant Professor of Art. B.A. (State University of New York at Buffalo), M.A. (Tulane), M.A., Ph.D. (expected 1991 - UNC-Chapel Hill).

Archives

The Importance of Davidson's Past

By Marc Overcash

Have you ever, whether by purpose or chance, wandered about the second floor of Little Library? There, towards the side that faces Duke, dwell the cloistered carrels of professors, a big green sign warding off potential trespassers [thou shalt not study here!], the office of the Archivist, and pictures—pictures that echo back the past.

No, these cryogenic gazes do not implore you to seize the day, but rather to remember the past. We come here in hope, among other things, to earn a degree that bears the name Davidson College. However, so few of us know the past traditions that make this name so valuable that we spend over sixty thousand of our dollars and four years of our lives. So few of us, besides those in the chorus, know the present Alma Mater song or even the original. Do we not care? Is Davidson just a means to an end, not the community of fellowship we say it to be?

Sorry, I was not trying to write a David Thompson opinion, but rather an introduction, or perhaps a justification, to a series of articles I plan to write. I realize that these stories will not yoke the present to the past, nor will they serve to stir our sense of tradition. After all, these are just words. But for those who choose to read, I offer these stories, not as a lesson in Davidson lore, but as a piece of history that we all share. I offer writing that weaves these different strands of Davidson together instead of stretching them apart.

Kenneth J. Menkhaus, Assistant Professor of Political Science. B.A. (Xavier), M.A., Ph.D. (University of South Carolina).

Alcoholic

Continued From Page 8

...not help your hangover. If some time has passed, aspirin is helpful as it thins the blood.

3. A better prevention is three 100mg complex vitamins taken one at a time: firstly well before you plan on drinking, secondly just before drinking, and lastly just before going to bed.

4. If you have a hangover, take them one at a time every 2-3 hours.

5. You should eat before drinking.

Michael R. Becker, Visiting Lecturer in Political Science. B.A. (Aurora), M.A. (Purdue).

Dr. Manuel Romero (center), professor of Constitutional Law, University of Sevilla (Spain), has become mentor to many of today's leaders in Spain's private and public life, including Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez. On ten occasions he has hosted students in Davidson's Term/Semester in Spain, and now visits the USA for the first time since his year at Yale's Law School in 1956-57. Romero will be speaking in the Morrison Room of the College Union on Monday, September 2, at 4:00 PM.

YSSC will be holding their "Food for Thought" information session. Come and find out how you can "lend a hand" in Davidson service.