THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991; 9

Davidson Arts

Michael Jackson's Dangerous: Go Ahead, Believe the Hype

By Jim Carswell

For the lucky few who have access to MTV and the misguided few who listen to Top 40 Radio, there has been no escape from Michael Jackson the last few weeks. He’s everywhere, telling us how he made the “Thriller” video, appearing in public with that little Home Alone kid, and of course singing Dangerous’s first single, “Black or White.” It’s been a long time since his last album came out, and apparently his PR people have spared nothing in their effort to promote this one. They say the success of Dangerous is vital to the slumped record industry, though, so maybe their efforts do warrant some justification.

Anyway, the job these people have done has paid off. Dangerous debuts at the top position in this week’s American pop charts, where it’s already been in England, Spain, Switzerland, and Australia. And “Black or White” hit number one on the singles list in fourteen countries, including this one, weeks ago. To say the least, this stuff is popular, and not just because of the hype or because music-buyers want their money to go toward more experimental plastic surgery for Michael. The fact is, Jackson attracts people. He knows popular music, and puts his knowledge to work. It all comes down to three factors, which are all evident in Dangerous.

Mystique

People are interested in Michael Jackson, and he gives them what they want... sometimes. Every now and then the public will get a story about how weird he is -- he tried to buy the Elephant Man’s remains and he used to sleep in that atmospheric chamber. It’s all intriguing, and in some of his music -- but not much -- he begins to answer the questions people ask. Songs like “Leave Me Alone” and “Man in the Mirror” in the past have hinted at the motivations behind his actions. He never offers a definitive answer though, and that keeps the masses buying. Maybe, just maybe on Dangerous he’ll tell us who he really is. Well, not quite, but on “Will You Be There” he uses a choir and searching lyrics to intimate that he feels a lot of doubt and needs faith in God to live. By the way, the melody and rhythm are catchy here, though the little prayer at the end is really annoying. It’s all just another hook for the inquisitive public, though.

Message

While he won’t quite tell you who he is, he will tell you what he wants. He headed up that whole “We Are the World” thing, and he echoes that song with “Heal the World” on this album. Actually, the song is just a cheap rip-off of the old one, but you get the same message. And really, how can you complain about it? Michael Jackson wants to help the world. That appeals to people, and it may actually even help them. “Black or White” lays down the message of community harmony, and that is actually one of the appealing aspects of the song. Sure, he gets a little overzealous, as with that rap about “turf wars, on a global scale,” but it is nice to hear a popular musical act concern himself with things nicer than murder and hate and dismemberment.

Music

Of course, none of this would have been possible had Michael Jackson not made his reputation with good music. We all still remember his bubblegum stuff with the Jackson Five back in the Seventies, and his solo work has been huge. Songs like “Billie Jean” are weak, but he does deserve some credit, and Dangerous compares well with Bad and Thriller. “Black or White” is a classic pop song, from the catchy guitar riff (played by Slash, by the way) to the aforementioned message. And the production is slick. All the “dahs” and “unhs” are in exactly the right places. See if you don’t catch yourself humming it some time soon. Another keeper is “Why You Wanna Trip on Me,” which recalls the good funk the Jacksons competed with in the old days. If you can get past the overbearing drum, you might even want to dance to it. Actually, the ever-present drum gets really old over the course of side two. “Gone Too Soon” and “Dangerous” combine to abandon...

See "Dangerous" on page 10

Southern Fan Support Strong For Drivin N' Cryin

By Will Montgomery

Atlanta’s up and coming success story Drivin n’ Cryin visited Davidson’s Johnston Gym last Friday night. The crowd was rowdy (a play rock and in Los Angeles there are only about fifty clubs with thousands of bands competing for time to play, he said. earlier work. Fuller countered that there are some slower songs on the new album but agreed in general that the band wanted to focus on...Few slam-dance pits, and the band provided some hard-driving rock and roll. The afternoon before the show, the Davidsonian had a chance to interview Burren Fuller, the band’s rhythm guitarist. Blending folk, country, and rock was not problematic to the members of Drivin N' Cryin, but fans and people in the music industry were confused by hearing driving rock and slide-guitar country on the same record. 

Calling from his hotel room, Fuller was friendly and easy-going. He told the interviewer that he was busy saving the world playing Atari, but that he would kindly put aside this noble pursuit to answer a few questions about the band. The first questions were about the recent Thanksgiving shows in Atlanta. Fuller explained that they were fun but hectic with all the relatives gathered for the holiday. Trying to be a family man and a rock star at the same time was nerve-racking. Fuller finds the Atlanta music scene to be very important towards their success. He noted that the bands get along well with one another and that there are many clubs offering places to play. New York has very few small venues.

The Davidsonian asked if it was difficult to play a small show at Davidson coming from the concerts in Atlanta. Fuller replied that he tried never to think in those terms. It is best to take the shows day by day and play the music hard each time, he said. No performance is better or worse, just different. He related that the crowds are larger in the South but that it is fun to play to fifty people in a bar out west or up in the northeast.

The Davidsonian then asked some questions about the diverse range of musical styles Drivin N' Cryin has explored over the course of their career. We wanted to know why the recent Fly Me Courageous album contains far more hard rock than the blend of folk, country, and rock which characterizes their earlier work. Different styles of producers have also influenced their sound. Whisper Tames the Lion producer Anton Fier concentrated song by song and would “make a country song really country and a rock song really rock.” Jeff Workman, the producer for Fly Me Courageous who has worked with Queen and other rock bands, helped develop an overall rock sound.

The message of most Drivin N' Cryin songs, says Fuller, is to stand up for yourself and don't be afraid to be yourself. Many of their songs express environmental concerns as well. “Our songs ask you to wake up and realize that we are polluting the earth,” and that “global warming is real, it’s a problem now.” During Friday’s show, Kinney sung “a song about two Native Americans looking at Mt. Rushmore. While there are monuments for great American leaders, the great Native American chiefs have only the wide blue sky.”

The future plans for Drivin N' Cryin include finishing the current tour and then embarking on a European tour in March and April. They will work on their new album during the summer and hope to get it out by September. They are not going to make a new video because MTV told them that there would be no room at all for them. Apparently, due to the big slump in the record industry, only really big bands get promised MTV airplay. The recession hasn’t hurt attendance at DNC live shows, Fuller mentioned. The large and festive crowd at Johnston Gym proved his assertion and indicates that Drivin N' Cryin’s southern following is strong and continuing to grow.

Peter Buck of R.E.M. produced MacDougal Blues, a solo effort by Kevn Kinney, DNC’s lead singer and songwriter. This album was entirely folk and acoustical and in some sense satisfied his urge to write slower songs. When asked to comment further on DNC’s connection with R.E.M., Fuller explained that before joining DNC he had been a roadie on R.E.M.’s Life’s Rich Pageant and Document tours and had even played rhythm guitar for them at several shows. Peter Buck came on stage to play during the first Thanksgiving show in Atlanta. DNC seems sick of being asked questions about or compared with R.E.M., however. During the last song at Friday's concert, the band brought out their road manager, who has long brown hair, and let him stand there flailing around with a guitar. After the song ended, Fuller announced, “Peter Buck everybody, Peter Buck!”