THE DAVIDSONIAN

~ SPORTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

15

Sports Front

Continued from page 13

ness empire. Johnson’s class, charm and his reputation for giving freely of his time for public appearances make his HIV-positive test even more of a tragedy. As he himself said, though, it is these same qualities that will give him the ability to change the way people approach AIDS.

Johnson told Hall that “I’m still Magic, you’re still going to have to give me hugs and high fives.” Magic will be hard to treat as an outsider, and this should make the treatment of other AIDS victims better.

Because of Johnson’s immediate recognizability, his fight with the disease will give every person in America, sports fan or not, personal contact with the disease. While I’m not going to touch the theological issue of whether or not Johnson has been picked by God to be a spokesman for the disease, if anything good can come out of this event, it will be a heightened awareness of the disease.

Johnson’s positive outlook has shown that he may be one of the few people in the world with the strength to turn such a personal tragedy into a triumph for society. While it is sad that such a brilliant basketball career could be cut short by a terrible disease, Magic is seizing a unique opportunity to achieve more off the court than he ever did on the court.

I hope that Magic can keep up the optimism even when the disease manifests itself in its full horror and we are forced to watch a great athlete wither away. Everyone needs to say a prayer for Magic and pay him the respect he deserves by taking his message to heart.

Soccer

Continued from page 13

The ‘Cats were forced to find other scorers. Sophomore Ben Hayes was converted from a defender to a front line player and adjusted well to his new role. He finished the year with 6 goals, but no other Davidson player had more than two. In fact, the team as a whole scored two less goals than Ukrop tallied last season. Also, the team managed almost 100 less shots on goal this season.

Next year, however, expectations will again be high for the ‘Cats. Ukrop will return after redshirting this season. With his return, Coach Slagle is hopeful that the powerful offense of 1990 will also be back.

The team will, however, lose 3 important seniors. Midfielders Lance Long and Spider Wormuth and goalkeeper Doug Long all had excellent careers and will be missed. Wormuth was recently recognized as a member of the All-Big South first team for his play this season.

The ‘Cats, however, should be able to fill the gaps left by these graduating players. Midfielders Andy Schwab, Lance Kinerk, Andy Haile, Mike Newton, Bryce Smith, and John Sampers will be asked to step up and assert themselves next season.

Freshman Alex Deegan, who shared the goalkeeper spot this year with Long, will have the job to himself next season. Deegan had the best statistics among Big South conference goalkeepers this season, with a goals against average of just 0.87.

Campus or Career
Come See our
SUIT SEPARATES

DOMINO’S
PIZZA

Man cannot live by football alone.

Call Domino's Pizza:
It happens every time you sit down in front of the TV to enjoy the Monday night game. Hunger strikes even before the home team scores. Make the smartest play of the game. Call our number for hot, delicious pizza in 30 minutes or less. Yeah, we’re at Domino's.

Sportswear &
Dresswear

CHARGE ACCOUNTS for DAVIDSON
Students Welcomed and Invited

DINNER FOR FOUR LATE NIGHT SPECIAL
$9.99 Large 1 Topping Pizza
& Two Cokes for $6.00
Order a 16" two-topping pizza and four 12-oz. cans of Coca-Cola classic for only $9.99

10pm-Midnight

Merchant of Fashion & Quality Apparel for Men & Women

128 N. Main St., Mooresville

79 Years

Offer Expires Nov. 17, 1991

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.

DOMINO’S PIZZA

Present your Davidson ID

STUDENTS & FACULTY: & Receive 10% Off!!!

LAKE LUBE

19000 Statesville Road/Hwy. 21
Cornelius, N.C. 28031
(704) 892-9834

Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sat. 9 a.m.-5 p.m.

SERVING ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE AND MARINE LUBRICATION NEEDS.
We Service Boats, Motorhomes, Imports and Exotic Cars Cornelius