THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING — Monday, MARCH 18, 1991

Campus Calendar

Tuesday, March 19
8:30 A.M. COFFEEHOUSE. 900 Room.
11:00 A.M. ELEVENTH HOUR CHAPEL. Dean Will Terry, Speaker. Lingle Chapel.
5:00 P.M. UNION BOARD MEETING. Everyone welcome. Big Screen Room.
10:30 P.M. 21 YEAR OLDS’ NIGHT. 900 Room.

Wednesday, March 20
7:00 P.M. DAVIDSON MEDIEVAL SOCIETY. Union Conference Room.

Thursday, March 21
1:00 P.M. CROP LUNCH. 900 Room.
4:30 P.M. LECTURE. Gilbert Harman, Professor of Philosophy at Princeton University. Big Screen Room.
7:30 P.M. CINEMA CLASSICS. Blue Angel. 900 Room.

Friday, March 22
5:00 P.M. SPRING BREAK BEGINS!!!

The staff of The Davidsonian, tired and in desperate need of a rest from this nonsense, is taking a little
break. We'll be back on April 8, so get all those letters you've been meaning to write ready for that
issue. We'll be putting out our last serious issue on the 15th, and then The Davidphonian will be released on
April 29, just in time for exams. Have a great Spring Break!

Use Your Smarts Under The Sun
By Jennie Wagner

Spring Break is just around the corner and next week most of us will be headed for the beach in
search of that “deep, dark, tropical tan”. Despite all the warnings of skin cancer, everyone usually goes out on the
first day and gets fried. Even if you try to achieve that “healthy” tan by gradually tanning without burning, it
can still be dangerous.

According to MacLean’s magazine, doctors say that people who go outdoors for short periods of intense sun exposure on the
weekends or during vacations increase their risk of melanoma. Malignant melanoma appears as irregular shaped moles, and if it goes
unchecked it can spread to other organs. Because fair-skinned people have smaller amounts of melanin in their skin they stand
a greater risk of developing skin cancer and wrinkles than do those individuals with darker complexions. Melanin is the skin’s
natural protector against ultraviolet rays; and, when we tan, the pigment melanin absorbs UV rays and darkens the skin.

The safest way to protect your skin this spring break is to invest in a bottle of sunscreen that blocks
out UV-A and UV-B radiation. Most sunscreens block out the shorter wavelength UV-B rays that cause sunburn and some forms
of cancer. UV-A rays, which were at one time thought to be harmless, are longer and penetrate deeper into the
skin promoting wrinkled, splotchy skin as well as cancer. Business Week magazine warns the consumer not to be misled by
skin-care products that advertise UV-A protection because the FDA has not yet set a standard for measuring those products. The
only product that has been approved by the FDA for coverage against UV-A rays is “Photoplex” from Allergan Inc. Some
products lead the consumer to believe that they are receiving a greater amount of UV-A protection than they actually are.

NC Dance Theater Offers
By Cecily Craighill

The North Carolina Dance Theatre performed in Love Auditorium on Wednesday, March 13, as the last offering of this year’s
Artists Series. For those of you who were there, congratulations, and for those of you who were not, I’m sorry.
You missed an exquisite evening of music, lights, costumes, and extremely creative ballet. Those who joined me in watching the
performance will agree, I’m sure, that this regional ballet company based in Winston-Salem is first-rate. I say this with some
authority, too, having seen some of the best dance companies that America has to offer. Perhaps the Joffrey or the
American Ballet Theatre have more money and more stars, but the only other company I have seen that had the
energy, humor, and athleticism of the NC Dance Theatre was Twyla Tharp.

The simplicity of the sets and the costumes, the creative lighting design, and the variety of music all served to
frame and highlight the talent of the dancers. The first piece,. Brandenburg Concerto #3 was a group of three dances
that incorporated balloons and the backdrop of doors into them. The precise and athletic movements of the dancers provided an
interesting counterpoint to the formality of Bach’s music. It is refreshing to see dancers approach traditional forms with wit and
modernity.

. The second piece was the weakest from my point of view. Glinka Pas de Trois had two women and
one man performing a more traditional ballet dance. The man, Patrick Badua, had some impressive solos, and the overall impression
was good, especially the technical aspects, but I just didn’t feel that it was as exciting as the other pieces
they did.

The third piece they performed was The Afternoon of a Faun, with music by Debussy. I remember most vividly from
the company’s last visit here two years ago another Debussy piece they did - La Mer. In that production, they
mimicked water and the sea by the fluidity and grace of the dancers. That grace and fluidity were apparent once
again, but with an added dimension. The faun was danced by Mel A. Tomlinson, a man who had not an
ounce of body fat on him, and who had some of the most amazingly controlled movements I have ever seen.
The contrast of his height and dark skin against the four maidens dressed in diaphanous white helped to emphasize the
innocence and sexual awakening taking place in the woods that afternoon. It was brilliantly performed, I thought, not something that
could be surpassed that evening.

The final piece, Clowns and Others, may not have surpassed it, but it certainly managed to equal it, if in
a different style. The entire ensemble was dressed in white clown suits with metallic accents. The company made the best
use of creative lighting in this piece, relying on color to create certain effects. There was more acting in this
piece than the others, and some very funny moments, such as the short man trying to kiss the tall woman
and just hitting her cleavage, or the bratty little girl licking her lollipop and sticking it to the face of
another clown. The clown walking on the tightrope, half in purple light, half in green, was especially effective.

I would heartily recommend that anyone who has not seen this dance company or who has never seen a dance
company at all attend one of their performances. The energy in the dancers is infectious, and their dancing is very
accessible to people of all ages and backgrounds. It seemed to me that a large portion of the audience was
older or from off-campus, and this saddens me. We are getting top-quality cultural events here on campus (and tickets at
a bargain price), yet very few people seem to take advantage of it. Once again, to those people who didn’t
go, I’m sorry, you missed a great show. I hope you have the opportunity to see them sometime.
