THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

Davidson Students Can be Painfully Frustrating
By Rafael A. H. Candelario II

By the time you read this, I'll be in my second week of jump school. Before I get to the
main topic of my letter, I'd like to thank my professors for their understanding and allowing me to attend Airborne
School. I’m writing you not because I have a big mouth with a lot to say, but because, contrary to
popular belief, I’m human and have feelings too. Ever since I returned to Davidson in the fall of '90, I
have remained “politically” quiet about the racial tension here on campus. There are many nights when I sit and cry
and think, “Why me, why here?” The last time I officially stated my feelings on Davidson in The Charlotte Observer,
my words were misconstrued and a stigma was placed upon me that I cannot shake. I had heard rumors of
what people had been saying about me and after the Forum on Racial Tension on Sunday, November 24, Prem-Manjooran confirmed
what I had heard. He told me that until earlier this year, he and his friends thought that I was
prejudiced. This didn’t surprise me, since last year a freshman dropped this info in my lap on the third week
of school—a damned freshman—where did she get her info, upperclassmen?

When I say that I can't stand Davidson, I mean that you, the students, frustrate me, not the institution or
the administration. Yes, the administration could help out minority students more, but the administration is only a representation of the
student body. Why do I blame my frustration on you? I’m not going to answer this for every black or
minority student, but sometimes I am made to feel as if I’m unwelcome or unwanted in my own “home.” Some
of my friends and I have tried repeatedly to go with the crowd, but frankly, my dear, we are tired.
Would it be so much to ask for you to try and learn about me and do some of the
things that I like to do? Davidson is a learning environment; learn from me and my friends.

Racial tension and racism exist everywhere due to ignorance. There should be no ignorant Davidson students. If your ideas concerning
minorities are based on what you heard from friends or saw on TV, you really need to reevaluate your thinking.
The best way to start relearning is just by talking to a black student. He or she will not bite
your head off. Drop your stereotypes and just open your mind. Other ways to learn about all minorities would be
to have a required multicultural class and have a racial awareness seminar during freshman orientation. But to have these requirements,
all students need to get involved. I know many of you don’t believe that racial tension exists at Davidson, but
it does. Just ask if you doubt; the incidents are numerous and so far nothing has turned into violence. At
the forum on the 24th, Laura Cunningham stated that nothing gets better before it gets worse. For those of you
who don’t know, violence is right around the corner and it is a damned shame. Fortunately, nothing further happened on
the night of November 23.

I don’t intend to apologize for anything I have said before because in many respects, I still feel the same
way. My intent is to clarify things I have said in the past, especially since this racial tension is supposedly
“new” on campus. I could ramble on forever on the incidents that have occurred or how I think things should
be changed, but I’ll stop and hope you’ll just think about some of the things I have said. Remember, communication
is the key to understanding and learning.

A Conversation on Chambers

It is late on week 15 of the Fall semester, and “A,” one half of the “Questionin’ That” team, takes
time to relieve stress by posing as a figurine on Chambers. After a time, the bells sound and an enormous
hunch-backed figure arises over the dome on the building. Alone with a box of “Hot Wings” and a light saber,
“A” attempts to speak with this being....

A: Who are you?
JPD: Man, you must not know who I am.
A: This building is off limits to anyone but members of “Students for Figurines on Chambers.” You haven’t been to
any of our meetings, so I assume that you don’t belong here. So, I'll repeat my question. Who are you?
JPD: First of all, I’m a student at Davidson College. Second, I am the man, Ebony man, known as “Joey,”
but you can call me J-P-D. I have recently found these figurines very fascinating, because these figurines seem so life-like.
A: Well, I appreciate that! There aren’t too many of us around who admire these figurines. What do you find
particularly interesting about them?
JPD: Methinks these are some of the finest babies I ever did see. The beauty, however, exists only on the
outside. True beauty exists within. Symbolically, they mean so much more. In a stressful environment, I often find others as
well as myself somewhat trapped in hell (Yo’ A:, you left off the “s,” so it should read “somewhat trapped
in a shell”).
A: I’ve never thought of them in that way. Can you elaborate?
JPD: The shell I speak of entails racial tension, discrimination, oppression, and, last but not least, ignorance. Our world is
much like the world of the statue. Imagine, if you will, a world filled with absolute darkness, a world filled
with silence in which you can speak and never be heard. This is what I envision as...the world of the
statue.

A: That's deep, man, and to be sure, you pontificate well. To me, I guess these statues represent timeless elements
of the campus. While I may be among the elect few to have such close contact with these figures, they
see it all and remain silent. If someone were to ask one of these figurines about “intolerance” and “tension,” how
do you think they would respond?

JPD: They would say that today we are faced with the same problems of the past.

A: What do you mean?

JPD: Well, excuse me if I begin to pontificate further, but this morning I had a talk with a fine
young lady who I admire very much, and we began to discuss reverse discrimination and affirmative action. And she stated
that she would feel bad if she were not given a job if she were better qualified than a minority.
I went on to say that oppression breeds oppression. Reverse discrimination is the result of a self-inflicted wound, and it’s
inevitable that we will reap what our ancestors have sown.

A: What does that have to do with—

See "Foxx" on page 8

By Steven Lilly

Many of us have felt a considerable rise in what has been termed “tensions on campus” this fall. From F.L.A.G.
to offensive posters to racial concerns, it seems like the Davidson Campus has suddenly become just as mixed up as
the rest of the world, being unsure of what steps to take concerning such major issues as sexuality and minority/majority
relations.

At an open forum held just before Thanksgiving break, well over one hundred concerned students gathered in Hodson Hall and
talked freely with each other about various tensions at Davidson College. I was extremely impressed with how many campus leaders
were present. I saw students on the SGA, officers in various Patterson Court houses, individual committee leaders, and even members
of the faculty and administration. In addition to these involved people, there were several freshmen present as well. They came
because they wanted to learn more, because they wanted to get involved and have a voice in their school’s welfare.

The forum lasted about an hour and a half and several people expressed their concerns on what they believe is
happening at Davidson. When it was over, some people may have left the forum, like I did, wondering just what
has prompted this sudden burst of tensions. Perhaps some of us wondered if Davidson is the only school experiencing strained
relations among its students. And many of us probably wondered while we walked home: is there any way for us
to rise above this and restore some sort of unity to our campus?

One of the biggest problems that emerges on most college campuses is what one might term “interpretation.” Often it is
hard to fully understand what someone has said when you hear it second or third hand. Since our campus is
a small one, we all have the opportunity to see, speak with, and get to know many different people. This
is good in a community sense but can sometimes pose problems when stories and gossip are concerned. Indeed, several of
us, at one time or another, have felt victimized by the “smallness” of Davidson. One of the problems is that
we hear so many different things about so many different people that we sometimes forget the exact words or the
context in which they were spoken. Even though this may sound trivial, it can go a long way toward instigating
a confrontation.

Another temptation Davidson students sometimes fall prey to is the desire to generalize and group people. The women in Warner
Hall or Rusk, the men in Phi Delta Theta or Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the Independents or members of The Black
Student Coalition, even the people involved in the Union; all these have certain stereotypes that have evolved over the years.
However, one of the problems with these stereotypes is that they often outlive the people involved in the organizations—that is,
the average Davidson student is only here for four years, but the organizations he or she may have been involved
with continue to carry on long after their departure. What is worse, though, is that people are misguided into believing
stereotypes offer a quick, simple method of “summing up” an entire organization. This is simply not true. No organization is
merely one person cloned fifty or one hundred times. Eating houses and social clubs may involve and attract groups of
women and men who have some of the same views on social activities, but beyond that, views and values invariably
change from one person to the next. It simply cannot be said that just because a person is a member
of a certain committee or a certain house that he or she thinks exactly the same as the other members
of the committee or the house.

A clear example of this is prevalent everywhere on our campus right now. Amid all of the tensions and debates,
you can still look around and see individuals of all races, creeds, and nationalities talking, having fun, and being friends
with one another. In fact, I believe it is an extremely small and self-deprived percentage of the Davidson community that
does not have at least one friend who happens to be of a different race, creed, or nationality. We know
we can be sensitive and understanding to each other’s wants and needs because we are already doing it on an
individual level. Now we need to take that same understanding, on all sides, and apply it to each other collectively.

Davidson is not alone in its quest to ease tensions on campus. Many other colleges and universities around the nation
are wrestling with the same questions we are. This does not mean we should sit back and wait to see
what they do about their problems. Ours is a community that draws from the very finest and brightest students applying
to colleges throughout the nation. We owe it to ourselves not only to work through our differences, but also to
serve as a model of effectiveness for other schools facing the same challenge. The fall semester has been full of
questions, from all sides, concerning numerous things. I hope many of you share my desire to see the spring semester
provide the answers.
