8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991

Depth, Relevance! A Self-Righteous Interlude

I’ve been feeling a bit apoplectically apathetic this week. So to celebrate, I decided to produce a little piece of
absolute verbal drivel—sort of the linguistic equivalent of a drool string stretching flaccidly between mesmerized lip and contemplative navel. And
I don’t feel guilty at all.

The following message continues solidly in the tradition of such Davidsonian standards as “In Good Health” and “The Incredible Ease
of Well Being.” Self-help literature is all the rage. We’ll call this week’s installment “Wake Up You Ninnies.”

I am convinced that the curse of the youthful intelligentsia of today (that’d be us) will not be a harried
life burdened with existential angst and a gut-wrenching mid-life crisis to break the monotony. We have progressed beyond such trite
mid-twentieth century maladies. Angst is passé and life crises seem to come and go nicely by the age of nineteen.
No, the vile shadow stalking the overeducated fortysomethings of the twenty-first century will not be Camus’ ghost but something much
more sinister—a hideous and undiscriminating plague of scoliosis brought on by too many years of single strapping.

For the clueless, scoliosis is the discomfiting physical condition in which the spine hangs a left when it should have
gone straight. Bummer. Furthermore, contrary to the apparent conception of the Davidson community, scoliosis is not dead! Ferreted out for
decades by fanatical elementary school examiners, it simply lies fallow, waiting to spring. We, smart-fellow-young-people, stand on the verge of
unwittingly regenerating this perfidious pillager of posture.

Backpacks have, like, two straps folks. Has this fact ever spoken to you? I know, I know. Of course it
hasn’t, because you, dear readers, are a bit thick. So! I elaborate. The unused strap on your JANSPORT is not
a safety device with which to strangle muggers on your late-night walks home from the Library. It works just like
the other one. If you poke your little arm through the loop, it will settle with surprising ease upon your
erstwhile vacant limb. The slidey little adjustment doohickey should look strangely familiar to you. (Again, just like the other one.)
If it hasn’t rusted into an immotile death grip, you might want to set it a little bit loose to
account for atrophy in your shoulder muscles due to lack of use. It takes time to get that old strength
back. Live a little, strap ‘em up! Respect for the functional capability of your backpack will increase exponentially. The designers
never actually meant for your shoulder to feel shredded by demon fingers after three classes, the post office, and a
lab. Act now while you’re still young and limber. Your spine may yet have time to straighten out, thus sparing
you the sudden mid-life realization that you have become, The Horror, irretrievably kinked.

I myself once grovelled in the realm of the singly strapped. One time freshman year I tried riding my bike
with about 43 pounds of Humanities hanging from my left shoulder. Finally, toe clips in place, precarious balance established, I
commenced. One pedal stroke, two, weight shift, and the first 1/4 of Civilization came crashing down on my forearm. The
twenty-five-pound bike followed in turn, and I was toast. Flat on my back and humiliated, you’d think I’d a’ learned.
But no. I re-tethered my sagging upper arm and continued flaunting my own bumbling self. At long last, my good
friend and mentor Clay Adams set me straight. He said, “Dave, you’re stupid. Put on the other strap.” Hesitantly, I
obeyed, and Oh! the saintly Bliss! Aching shoulders sang praises to my name, and my spine—poor, forgotten spine—slowly began to
rise out of the bass clef it had become.

Friends, the choice is yours. Equilibrium lies just around the corner. Slip on that shunted strap and feel the wonder
of a fully operational di-loopated mono-hatch canvas carry-all. Sure, you might get called “Double Strapper.” People are cruel. But if
you really think about it, worse epithets have been hurled. After a moment of trepidation, you will notice the exquisite
pleasure that walking down the hall can become. Drop your pencil? No problem. The disparate maneuverability of a double-strapped pack
is unmatched. Either side, any direction, just stoop right on down there and pick that sucker up! Pretty soon you
start to feel like a freed soul among slavish bipeds shackled hopelessly by one clavicle to a tome-weighted ball and
chain.

And consider the scenario if we fail to act now: The year is 2016. Davidson graduates, for the most part
victims of voluminous years of graduate study and the subsequently toted tonnage of single-strapped books, have become a national fixation.
An article appears in Time:

Opinions
You have them. We want them. Read The Davidsonian, The South's Foremost College Weekly and say, "Well, I think Dave
Thompson is stupid,” or "I don't really care about David Scott's beard,” or "There are problems in the world" or
"People are inherently evil" or "God is inherently good” or "Gosh, we're all just kind dust in the wind if
you think about it” or whatever, and then write these thoughts in a letter and send them to The Davidsonian
office before Friday or contact David Scott, Opinions Editor, at 6615. He cares. We all care. Really. We're here for
you. Just give us a call. We want to help.“The Davidson Phenomenon: S-Shaped intellectuals Struggle On, Live Life At A
45° Angle To Reality.” The choice is yours. So long. Thompson

Continued from Page 7

Nike corporation suggests that we throw all caution to the winds in each and every endeavor? Just imagine: “But I’m
too drunk to drive.” “Just do it.” “But it’s against the honor code.” “Just do it.” Not very responsible, but
that’s to be expected from these philosophically deluded, anti-American, impolite, sweaty people. Actually, it’s not such a bad motto, now
that I give it some thought. Just make sure the “it” involves a good friend, lots of Jell-O, and a
reliable prophylactic.

Candidate Essays (cont.)

Barron '92

Continued from Page 9

I have been involved in several different aspects of campus life, and I would love the opportunity to expand my
activities to the Union Board. I think I would prove to be an enthusiastic and responsible president for the whole
student body, and I would appreciate your vote in next Tuesday’s election.

Cartron '92

Continued from Page 9

...ceptive and inclusive to everyone’s involvement in order to have a year of fun, crazy and informative activities.

Dixon '92

Continued from Page 9

...various positions, and giving it back to the Union Board, and ultimately the student body, in the form of enjoyable
and effective programming. The President and the Board should be a visible group, able to interact with the students for
ideas and feedback. My experiences have allowed me to see where the Union has come from and where it could
go. The Publicity Committee has taught me the importance of making the campus aware of what the Union has to
offer. It is also essential that the Union cooperate with and complement each house on the Court. The Union is
moving in exciting directions; keep that experienced energy going by giving me the opportunity to work for you as Union
President.

Hord '92

Continued from Page 9

...committee, International committee and other Union Board members including the Social Board. I have assisted this year’s Social V.P. with
the planning of two “big weekends,” homecoming and mid-winters. I feel that I have as complete an understanding as any
student of how the Union operates and what makes Union programs a success. While the Union has held many successful
events that were co-sponsored by the houses on Patterson Court (such as Lunar Luau and Blues Traveler), the Union also
presents an alternative to the “Court scene.” I enjoy Court parties, but it is important that there is a viable
social alternative on campus to playing sardines on weekends. Not only is it important, though, that these alternatives exist, but
it is critical that the campus know about the events in the Union as well. Concerts, study breaks, movies, FAC’s,
lectures, etc. may be marvelously planned, but all to waste if students do not come to enjoy them. My plan,
if elected, is to continue the great events sponsored in the Union, offer a little more variety in order to
attract more people, and PUBLICIZE. Don’t forget to vote on January 29th.

McGrady '92

Continued from Page 9

...vital role it plays on the campus. As a Chairman of both the Pop Films committee and the Alumni Speakers
Committee, I have a great deal of experience with how the Union board operates behind the scenes. I am deeply
interested in what events the Union plans and sponsors as well as the image it has on campus. I care
about this position enough that I wouldn’t do just enough to “get by”; I want to do the best job
possible. My experiences while living in London last semester enable me to bring freshness to this office that would be
reflected in a new perspective and new ideas. Furthermore, as we begin to make the transition from the present building
to the new facility in the former Johnson Gym, it is essential to elect leaders who know the Union’s past
and yet have a clear vision about what could be accomplished in the future. My knowledge about the way things
have been done and my dreams for the year to come would fulfill this need. As you vote on January
29, remember me, Jennifer McGrady, as the candidate for Co-Curricular Vice-President.

Sweeting '93

Continued from Page 9

...away with, or altering a few traditions. With the R., which stands for REINFORCEMENT, I will try to strengthen the
amount of student participation through weekly events that are not currently in effect on campus. The A. stands for ATTITUDE.
At the present time, many members of the student body do not feel the need or the desire to participate
in Union activities. It is my intent to arouse their desire to participate. The other C. stands for CREATIVITY. Without
it, I would never have come up with this speech, and with it, I intend to broaden the range of
the type of activities that are planned on campus (i.e., a street fair, jazz band for homecoming, as opposed to
the usual semi-formal, etc.). Finally, the K. stands for KALEIDOSCOPE. By incorporating the ideas of other people around me, with
those of my own, together, you and I can make the office of Vice-President social, more than just a position,
but the key to “an exciting life on campus.” So come on, and get into C.R.A.C.K., so that we can
all help get Davidson on a “high,” a high ladder that is, to success as a school with great academics,
and a touch of fun.

Read The Davidsonian
