THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

Secret Society Opens Doors To Women

NEW HAVEN, Conn. (CPS) - Yale’s exclusive all-male Skull and Bones society has voted to admit women. A vote by
alumni on Oct. 25 approved the inclusion of six women students who were asked to join last May. The club
initiates the 15 “best and brightest” Yale seniors who are chosen each year. Supporters of the women said that to
continue admitting the school’s “15 best,” women had to be included. The Skull and Bones was one of only two
remaining secret societies at Yale that did not admit women after the school became co-ed in 1969. Some prestigious members
of the club include President Bush and conservative columnist William F. Buckley. Buckley is one of the leading opponents of
the women and last month led a group that sued to keep the women out.

Study: Many Women Of Childbearing Age Still Smoke

ATLANTA (CPS) - A recent study released by the Centers for Disease Control shows that nearly one-third of women of
childbearing age smoke. Of the number, 59 percent said they smoked more than 15 cigarettes a day. Of the 30
percent of the women who do smoke, the majority were older and less educated. Only 21 percent of the smokers
were under age 25 and only 19 percent had completed a college education. Kentucky had the highest number of women
smokers of childbearing age (18 to 44), and Texas and the District of Columbia had the lowest. The CDC emphasized
the importance of reducing smoking among women of childbearing age because it said women who smoke during pregnancy have a
higher risk of miscarriage and their babies are more likely to be low birth weight or have sudden infant death
syndrome.

More Blacks Hold College Degrees, Census Says

WASHINGTON (CPS) - According to recently released statistics by the Commerce Department’s Census Bureau, the proportion of blacks between the
ages of 35 and 44 who completed college has more than doubled since the 1980s. The report said that 17
percent of black men in the age group had a college education in 1990 compared with 7 percent in 1980.
Fifteen percent of black women in the 35 to 44 age group had a college education in 1990 compared with
8 percent in 1980.

MOVIES AT THE LAKE

The Area's First Multi-Cinema
Wall to Wall Screens & Stereo Playback in all Eight Auditoriums.
Art Deco Interior
Dolby SR Playback
Now Accepting Applications
Apply Weekdays Between 5:00 and 7:00pm
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS 892-3841

INCLUDES: FULL SERVICE — “Lubricate Chassis

STUDENTS & FACULTY: LAKE LUBE
19000 Statesville Road/Hwy. 21
Cornelius, N.C. 28031

SGA Phonathon Moved To Feb.
By Steven Lilly

Instead of being held during the end of November, the SGA Phonathon will now take place during the last two
weeks of February. This move comes after a change in the Campaign for Davidson’s fiscal year which now ends in
June instead of January. In recent years, the Phonathon has enjoyed tremendous success. Last year, the grand total raised by
student callers was over $300,000. Money pledged each year during the Phonathon is put into the school’s Annual Fund, which
includes everything from the Wildcat Club to the purchase of new light bulbs for the dormitories. The Phonathon is one
of the few projects in which the entire student body participates. Members of all of the Patterson Court houses as
well as Independents and Freshmen have a specific calling night to raise money. The calling times are from 6:00pm to
9:00pm and the money raised by each group is tracked.pooled. The total is then recorded on the bulletin board in
the main hall of Chambers. Even though the Phonathon will take place after Self-Selection this year, freshmen are still going
to be able to call as a class. The decision came as good news to Freshman Class President, Eric Rosenbach,
who felt it would be a good way for the freshman class to participate as a whole. Some goals of
the Phonathon have changed along with the dates. It will now be more of a “clean up” time to contact
those alumni who have not had a chance to give. As a result, the Phonathon itself may not reach the
record totals it has in the last three years. Hopefully, the Annual Fund will continue to grow, however, as alumni
support and involvement increases during this year’s SGA Phonathon.

Stell Speaks On Living Wills
By Kevin Miller

Dr. Lance K. Stell, chair of the Department of Philosophy at Davidson and Professor of Clinical Ethics of the Department
of Internal Medicine at the Carolinas Medical Center, briefed students and faculty members last Tuesday on the new provision of
the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act that goes into effect on December 1. This provision, entitled “The Patient Self Determination Act,”
stated intent is to assure “a patient’s right to participate in and direct health care decisions.” The requirements of the
Act apply to all hospitals, health maintenance organizations, nursing facilities, and home health providers that receive reimbursement from Medicare or
Medicaid.

Professor Stell explained that since the days of dying in peace on the family death bed in the presence of
relatives has given way to passing away in a cold hospital room with IVs, machines, and strangers, many have felt
the need for some way to escape the constant aggressive responses by doctors to any threat of death no matter
what the prognosis. Stell said that arguments for the right to control personal health care decisions fall under the inalienable
rights given by the U.S. Constitution, namely, the right to choose and the right to privacy. Arguments for those opposed
fall under the questions of ‘Is this suicide?’ and ‘Is this morally correct?’ Stell said that when Congress became faced
with this issue, they surprisingly answered the debate with a “yes,” therefore making patient self-determination legal.

Specifically, the Act requires providers (hospitals, health maintenance organizations, etc.) to give out “written information to each adult patient at
time of admission concerning his or her right under state law to make medical decisions regarding his or her own
medical care including the right to accept or to refuse medical or surgical treatment and the right to execute advance
directives (such as living wills and durable powers of attorney).” This means that when a person is admitted to a
medical facility or is under some sort of care, he can make out a living will. This is a document
stating what to do if they become incompetent, terminally ill, or fall into some sort of vegetative state. The person
could also elect to...

See "Stell" on page 3

(704) 892-9834

Present your Davidson ID & Receive 10% Off!!!

A Brief Note From The Editor

The letters attacking news editor Tom Koonce printed...

Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sat. 9 a.m.-5 p.m.

SERVING ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE AND MARINE LUBRICATION NEEDS.

We Service Boats, Domestic, Imports, and Exotic Cars
