THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

WIRE!

Smith’s Status At UNM On Hold Until Trial Ends

ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (CPS) -- William Kennedy Smith will have to wait until his Florida rape trial is over to find
out the status of his medical residency at the University of New Mexico. University Hospital spokesperson Carolyn Tinker said the
medical center approved Smith’s residency application in August, and he theoretically could begin the program at the trial’s end. Smith
was a graduate of Georgetown University Medical School.

“We will have to weigh the outcome, talk with him, see what the situation is, if he is able to
come or if he still wishes to,” Tinker said. “There will be a whole series of discussions after the trial
when we know what circumstances to deal with.”

The 31-year-old nephew of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., is currently on trial for the rape of a 29-year-old Jupiter,
Fla., woman, who says Smith attacked her on the Kennedy family estate in Palm Beach on March 30. Smith has
pleaded innocent to the charges.

Fright Night Prediction Doesn’t Come True

(CPS) -- Students at colleges in the Northeast got more than the traditional Halloween scare this year because of a
rumor predicting a mass murder on one of their campuses. Most breathed a bit easier when the first of November
dawned and brought the death of the false prediction.

Students at Syracuse University, Franklin Pierce College, the University of Massachusetts, Holy Cross, Boston College and Harvard all had heard
the story -- that a psychic on the “Oprah Winfrey Show” predicted the Halloween massacre on a campus with an
L- or T-shaped building overlooking a lake or cemetery. According to the rumor, 16th-century astrologer Nostradamus originally predicted the killings.

A spokesman for “Oprah” says no psychic made an appearance on the show and made the prediction. She added that
dozens of people had called about it. Days before Halloween, the Harvard Crimson ran a story about the rumor, quoting
several students who said they were a little anxious, but not really worried.

Oakland Fire

Student Recants Rape Story

COLLEGE STATION, Texas (CPS) -- Texas A&M University is continuing its investigation of its Corps of Cadets after allegations of
sexual harassment by several women cadets. But one female student who said she was raped by some male members of
the corps told university investigators recently that she lied about the assault. The university also issued a statement saying that
the committee investigating the harassment complaints had confirmed some of the charges.

CALLING INTERESTED PARTIES

The Davidsonian has kept a journal of recent activities on campus that have provoked cries of "sexism", "censorship", "political correctness",
"homophobia", etc. Several members of the Student Affairs Staff are interested in providing a forum for further discussion concerning these
issues. Issues of diversity and tolerance have ramifications for the entire community. If you are interested in working with such
a group, get in touch with one of the staff members listed below. We will be in touch soon to
let you know about an initial meeting time.

John Eaves - 2225; Chuck Hasty - 2451; Ruth Pittard - 2192; Brenda Tapia - 2452; Richard Terry - 2188

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.

CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300

MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.

Verner Continued from page 1

especially black women, in a dehumanized fashion. Images implied that black women were less attractive than their white counterparts, often
subtly ridiculing stereotypical black physical traits. The “black mammy” images of the black subservient to the white household sharply contrasted
to those of the “glamorous” white women of magazine covers. Verner argued that these images were responsible for present racial
and gender misconceptions. Although modified today, these same perceptions affect modern ideas of success and romance.

She criticized the media’s manipulation of Clarence Thomas’s senate confirmation hearings, saying they have “brought to mind how much media
influences us.” Claiming that the image was more important to the media than the truth, she said, “we are constantly
being emotionally and psychologically jerked around... we’re only free to think about what they tell us to think about.”

A student at Cornell in the 1960s, Verner has also been a social activist involved in racism on campus. She
has done workshops around the country, helping to combat the problem. A campaigner for academic diversity in higher education, she
said, “people take it for granted that there are black studies and gender studies on campus.”

Parker Continued from page 1

despair that she witnessed in the world. According to Parker, the “signs of despair” are “numerous and alarming”. “We’ve only
studied 1% of all species intensely, we aren’t sure what has been lost or even what may be lost,” Parker
said. “Annually, we lose an amount of Third World rainforest the size of the state of Pennsylvania.”

However, Parker noted that “while it may only be local, there are some substantive indicators of what can be done,
some signs of hope do exist.” Parker cited reforestry in Jamaica, forest management in Nepal and forestry education in Costa
Rica as signs of environmental “hope”. Parker feltthat there has been a definite change in attitude, “a changing of positive
behaviors” among people of the world concerning the environment. She mentioned a 1988 United Nations survey that revealed that 97%
of those Latin Americans surveyed felt that the environment was a “major” concern, illustrative of changing attitudes. In order to
attack areas of environmental concern, Parker stressed that we have to deal “not only with the symptoms of the problems
but also the causes.” She referred to the fact that replanting trees in the rainforest does not attack the “deeper
problem” of a growing population in that region. Parker also addressed the role of women in these developing nations and
their impact on the environmental practices. Presently, Parker is working with two Davidson graduates, Mary Mulhern ’86 and Suzanne Mauze
’89, on a study of gender issues in Latin America for a group called GENESYS. Parker discussed the world’s misconceptions
of women as “only reproducers or nurturers” when in actuality women are the “resource planners” of many communities. Women have
a great impact “on species diversity by their planning of crops and role as food providers.” Parker said she was
most concerned with removing the “myopia of the way the world really works, you have to talk about women, it
is an economic, environmental imperative.” Parker concluded her lecture by stating that “only through commitment and action as individuals can
we make contributions to a society where signs of despair outweigh those of hope.” She said that she has become
“more optimistic” as she adjusted her expectations for change. “I do see a lot of change, people are becoming aware
of the issues and what they have in their own environment.”

Wallets

Wednesday, October 23, 1991

Between 4:00 pm and 6:00 pm on this day, someone entered the unlocked football, soccer, and wrestling locker rooms. They
opened lockers in these rooms and removed wallets, money, and various other personal items. The total value taken in money
and other items was $1,902.00. The majority of the wallets and money were taken from the football locker room. There
were 27 victims in this robbery. The Office of Public Safety currently has some leads to this crime but has
yet to name any suspects. As a result of this incident, Director of Public Safety Ray Thrower has talked with
Athletic Director Terry Holland about putting locks on these individual lockers. The teams are now suggested to lock the doors
to their locker rooms.

Sunday, October 27

Between 6:00 pm Sunday 10/20 and 6:00 pm Sunday 10/27, James Christopher Wells reported that the top to his convertible
Mercury Capri had been cut. The car was parked in the Copeland Parking Lot. Damage is estimated at $800.00.

Saturday, October 26 - Sunday, October 27

On Sunday, October 27th, Party Reflections, Inc. reported approximately $5,000.00 in damage to tents that were located behind Vail Commons
throughout homecoming weekend. Tents were turned upside-down and frames were damaged. Campus police are interviewing witnesses and suspects at this
time.

Tuesday, October 29

At around nine at night on this day, Officer B.F. Davis charged a non-student with simple possession of marijuana.

5:30 pm Saturday, November 2 - 1:45 pm Sunday, November 3

Between the above times, several signs were run over and damaged on the five-kilometer Cross Country trail. The gate to
the trail was damaged and the lock was broken. A broken club car found near the senior apartments was the
vehicle responsible for the damage to the trail. The car had a smashed bumper and a broken plexiglass window. Damage
to this club car, property of the Athletic Department, was estimated at $500.00. Damage to the gate and signs, including
an ROTC sign, was estimated at $700.00.

October 31 - November 3

Junior Deidra Montague reported that the license tags to her green Honda Accord were removed between the above dates. Her
car was parked in the West Commons lot. The tag holders were found underneath the vehicle.

11:30 am Thursday, November 7 - 5:00 pm Thursday, November 7

Between the above times, junior Matt Bumstead reported that his wristwatch was stolen from the second east Belk restroom while
he was taking a shower. The watch was a new chrome, gold-toned Citizen brand quartz with three different dials on
its face and a brown leather wristband. He had left it on the windowsill in the restroom.

Beaty Continued from page 1

college. Her arrival roughly coincided with the advent of co-education. Beaty was used to co-education from her teaching at Richmond
and she believes that it has been a “wonderful change” at Davidson. The automation of the library has been another
change that Beaty has seen firsthand. She says that the introduction of computers has been “exciting for me and enormously
important.” Beaty noted that the automation of the research process has led students and faculty to select more ambitious and
challenging research topics. Dr. Beaty received her undergraduate education at Agnes Scott College and her doctorate at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She also received a degree in Library Science at Chapel Hill.
