THE DAVIDSONIAN - NEWS
MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991

By Cecily Craighill

The first item under old business at the March 12 SGA meeting was the change in the daily schedule for
next fall. All classes will start at 8:30, Monday-Friday, and all Tuesday/Thursday classes will end at 4 p.m. Some seminars
on Monday/Wednesday/Friday may last until 5:50. The lost 11th Hour will be replaced by the 11:20-11:50 time slot on Monday/Wednesday/Friday,
and there will be more forums at 4 on Tuesday/Thursday. The change has been made largely to accommodate arts rehearsals,
and also to encourage more students and faculty members to sign up for early morning classes.

The motion Laura Cunningham made last week to start a Public Policy Committee was passed this week. The committee will
be organizing activities to help make Davidson students more aware of outside current events.

SGA Weekend seemed to go smoothly, but according to Kristi Kessler the whole concept is going to be reevaluated over
the summer. Research will be done on how other colleges organize their recruiting weekends, as well as how effective the
weekend is in drawing students to Davidson.

The Patterson Court renovations are scheduled to begin in the next two weeks. Plans have been greatly scaled down, and
the work has been contracted out. Each house is expected to take approximately four to five weeks to finish. Work
on the new Martin Court apartment buildings has begun, and it is expected that two will be finished by next
fall. One of the buildings will have a basement that will contain drink machines, washers and dryers, and a large
meeting room.

Cammie Covington spoke to the SGA as the new president about her expectations for the year. She expressed the need
for enthusiasm on the part of both the SGA and the entire student body, not just at parties or athletic
events, but in everything. She encouraged people to get involved, and to speak to her and Laura Cunningham personally about
their performance if anyone has any questions or comments.

Cammie then described the new SGA/Punch Line card that will be available around campus. It is a long fold-up card
with ads and discounts on one side and pertinent questions and information about alcohol and alcoholism on the other.

The final order of new business was to approve a number of appointments. Grey Timberlake was approved as the new
Chancellor. The other appointments were Mike Moriarty as Elections Council chairman, Carrington Mangum as head of the Activities Tax Council,
and Steven Summers as head of the Auxiliary Services Council.

The new administration encourages active participation in campus events by the entire student body. Engage with your senators and make
a difference!

Women's Issues Committee Sponsors Feminist Forum

By Frances Morton

In celebration of National Women’s History Month, the Committee for Women’s Issues sponsored many events in the Union last week,
including a self-assertiveness workshop with Missy Kuykendall, and a discussion on Women and Nutrition with Sue Reade, the College Dietician.
But the activity which undoubtedly gained the most interest on campus was a forum entitled “What it Means to be
a Feminist.”

Attended by a healthy amount of both male and female students, as well as several members of the Davidson Community,
the purpose of this meeting was to raise consciousness of what it really means to be a feminist, and its
implications for everyday life.

The forum began with an introduction by Dr. Rosemary Tong, who teaches Introduction to Feminist Thought at the college, and
has written several books on the subject. Tong asserted that the ultimate belief of all feminists is “the conviction that
the subordination of women is wrong.” Their goals are to articulate moral criticism, come up with morally desirable alternatives, and
live with family and friends in the best possible way while pursuing other feminist goals.

Tong discussed the negative image that most people have of feminists—pictures of women crusaders in the ‘60s burning bras and
storming the Miss America pageant in protest. She assured the audience that there are as many types of feminists as
there are any types of human beings. Types range from liberal feminists, who are basically content with the structure of
the society we live in but simply want equal opportunity for women in the workforce, to post-modern feminists who are
worried that feminists of today are falling into the trap of all that they are against. By declaring prerogatives for
all women, many feminists fail to take into consideration inherent differences in women from different cultures and backgrounds, thereby becoming
just as oppressive as the males who attempt to define women in their own constrictive views.

Other members of the panel included Gilbert Shaw, a senior history major; Don Kimmel, professor of Biology; and Tania Tambiah,
an international student from Sri Lanka. The most potent issues raised were...Why is it so offensive to declare yourself a
feminist, and the idea of how far to go in standing up for your beliefs? Many people in the audience
were concerned with the stigma attached to the concept of feminism. “Why do people bristle when you happen to mention
that you are a feminist?” asked one participant. The panel’s answer was that certain strategies employed by some of the
more radical feminists to draw attention to the abuse of women led less enlightened members of society to misinterpret all
feminists as brutes who do not care about their appearance and would leave their families. Because of this unfortunate misconception,
even famous authors such as Margaret Atwood, who visited the campus last month, hesitate to label her books as “women’s
literature” because it would limit the number of people reading her books. A possible solution suggested by a member of
the audience was to know when to stop trying to convince people to subscribe to the feminist philosophy. “No one
likes a zealot,” he commented. “These people may be feminists, but they are also many other things.” On the other
side of the coin, it was pointed out that a certain amount of risk-taking and activism must be involved in
the feminist movement. Persuasion is good, but it takes a long time and often fails. The key for feminists is
to have patience. Finally, discussion turned to the situation at Davidson itself. Dr. Kimmel expressed regret that not more students
were willing to talk about feminism and other explosive movements in his classes -- “It’s just not as fun to
teach anymore,” he said. The atmosphere at the school seems to lead people to be afraid of being different; no
one wants to be too confrontational. Gilbert Shaw summed up the future of feminism at Davidson with his comment that
it would be “dependent on what the students demand.” Ellen Crawford, a senior who attended the forum, was pleased with
the outcome of the discussions and believed the forum served its purpose by “getting people talking.” She believed it was
successful in “dispelling the bad connotations of being a feminist. After all, it is not an offensive thing, just women
wanting equal treatment as any other human being would want.” Cammie Covington, Dean Terry, and Gloria Clevinger, Marketing Director of
Punch Line. Photo by Chris Lee.

SGA co-sponsors Discount/Drug and Alcohol Awareness Cards
By Sean Lind

Punch Line Publications, in association with the Student Government Association and area “Merchants Who Care,” is offering to all Davidson
students a discount card designed to increase student awareness of drug and alcohol problems. On one side, the cards display
discounts and advertising information from local businesses. On the other is a ten-question alcohol/drug abuse test, and phone numbers and
hotlines for people with abuse problems, as well as factual information about drunk driving fatalities. The facts represented on the
card were obtained from the Governor’s Council on Alcoholism. The discount cards are valid for all Davidson students for the
entire year. A letter from the Dean of Students Office to local area merchants states, “Our hope is to provide
through Operation Punch Line a Fact and Saving Card that will be used to communicate drug and alcohol abuse facts.
We will distribute 2000 cards without cost to every member of the Davidson community. The concept is very simple. You,
the merchant, will provide the buying incentive and enable the users to stretch their money, thereby giving the card value.
The student using the card will see your alcohol/drug abuse fact many, many times during the coming year.” Gloria Clevinger,
the corporate marketing director of Punch Line, sees the cards as interactive. She says, “I would urge the students to
participate with the merchants who sponsor the program.” Bill Stuckey, Punch Line’s National Sales Manager, reinforces this idea, adding that
students are encouraged to give feedback, both on the quality and effectiveness of the drug and alcohol abuse information and
on which merchants students would prefer on the card. Cammie Covington, SGA President, said she “agreed to support the cards
because they were a practical and effective way to make the student body aware of alcohol and drug abuse problems.”
She added that the SGA intends to work with Punch Line in the future, giving feedback about the cards and
offering suggestions for improvement.

Remember: SGA Class Senator Elections Will Be Held On Tuesday, April 2. BE SURE TO VOTE!

Blood Continued from Page 1

The program is currently only able to satisfy 20-25% of bone marrow transplant needs. Participation at Davidson last Wednesday was
high. 472 people gave samples to be typed. Gigi Cooke, a member of the Bone Marrow Committee, was pleased by
the turnout. “It says a lot for Davidson College,” she said. Lindsay said he was “thrilled Davidson students have proved
that Davidson is not an apathetic campus, but are willing to give so that others may live.”
