THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE - Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor

The Davidsonian

JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
Founded in 1914
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor

"The South's Foremost College
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor

Weekly”

CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager

LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor

WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor

LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

ANDREW SPAINHOUR - Production Manager

MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

Letters

Peters Expresses "Thanks"

Give it Some Thought

This Tuesday, September 10, the Student Government Association will be holding elections for freshman and independent senators. The Davidsonian urges
the freshmen and independents to set a precedent for the rest of the student body by voting carefully and thoughtfully
for the most qualified candidates. Such activity is the first step towards ensuring an effective student government. No matter how
hard the senators work, or what they may attempt to get accomplished, the SGA cannot truly reach the student body
without active, vibrant student support.

Apathetic and careless voting practices can trap the SGA in an eternally plummeting spiral. If students think to themselves that
the SGA doesn’t do anything of significance, and don’t seriously consider the qualifications of the candidates, the new senators will
not feel closely associated with their constituents, and their productivity will be minimal. Once election time comes around again, few
people will care at all about who’s running. It's happened before. A recent graduate once said on election day, “No,
I haven’t voted. What the hell do I care where they put the Coke machines?”

To keep this cycle from developing again, we urge the freshmen and independents to choose carefully at the polls. We
hope you will choose the candidates who are willing to spend the time and energy necessary towards making the SGA
a vital part of student life, and that you'll support their efforts. Don’t pay attention to witty, colorful fliers, but
vote for the students who will most effectively represent your needs in the student government.

Complaining about the SGA a few months down the road will do nothing to improve the situation, and any gripes
you have may just be your just desserts for not thinking about your vote.

To the Editor:
Attention Babysitters (i.e. CCRL):

I would like to convey in some way my personal gratitude to those individuals that yanked us from the clutches
of pre-Patterson Court rushing (and evidently in the nick of time). Though our callow freshman class had not attended parties
for any other reason than the avoidance of a monastic-”sect” type lifestyle, we children were surely approaching academic failure and
premature “sect” selection.

Also admirable is the seemingly self-righteous attitude of some of Davidson’s upperclassmen. Though they survived the rigors of the pre-Court
social scene relatively scar free, we evidently lack the luck and maturity that they had as freshmen.

Again, thanks so much. We freshmen can breathe a collective sigh of relief, and solace ourselves in these next weeks
with the memories of the fun we once had.
Sincerely,

JONATHAN PETERS, '95

Hoveland Defends Union

To the editor:

My purpose in writing is to respond to a letter written by Max Hendrix in last week’s issue. Mr. Hendrix
suggests that “involvement by another party would... provide greater social opportunity, and alleviate much of the pressure concerning alcohol policy
and liability now being exerted on Patterson Court.” He further argues that the College Union lacks involvement in the social
realm of Davidson life.

It is unfortunate that in his three years at Davidson Mr. Hendrix has allowed the many social opportunities at the
College Union to pass him by. More unfortunate is the fact that he has neglected to recognize either the substantial
amount of effort the College Union staff, board, committee members, and volunteers have put into these events, or their popularity.

Students filled the 900 Room to see Dances With Wolves, and at least 200 attended Stormy Monday Blues Night. I
wonder if Mr. Hendrix took advantage of these or any of the other 16 social events which have taken place
in the past three weeks.

I have no interest in preaching Unionism, but I would like to clarify something. The Union is about people who
want to make things happen on campus: if independents want to make the Union their place to have a good
time on “big” weekends, they are welcome to and will find support there. If Union and Patterson Court people want
food on the Court for “first night down,” it will happen. Take a little action yourself. You might be surprised.

Sincerely,
CHRIS HOVELAND, '93

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.
