“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXII

THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

NUMBER 12

NEWS OF PERSIAN GULF WAR SWEEPS COLLEGE

Senior Ellen Ott displayed a poster to dispel the myth that peace protesters do not support the troops. Davidson held
another peace vigil in front of Chambers last Tuesday.

Photo By Chris Lee

Students, Faculty Have Mixed Emotions

By Joe Maris and Jay Chaudhuri

Senior Carey Murrey will remember last semester not because she is nearing graduation, but because of the news that broke
last Wednesday night. Ironically, Murrey was at the Exxon gas station in Davidson when television stations announced the U.S.-led coalition’s
attack on Iraqi and Kuwaiti targets. Students and community members immediately crowded Exxon in fear of rising gas prices.

For Murrey and other students, the news was shocking. After President Bush’s 9:00 speech to the nation following the attack,
many students cheered and applauded military action. Others hung their heads in sadness. Clearly, the campus is divided.

“I’m totally in support of it,” said sophomore Richard Rivera. “The President has taken good action so far and we
should continue what we are doing until Hussein and Iraq withdraw from Kuwait.” Many supported Bush's decision, believing that prolonged
sanctions or waiting could only make things worse.

Many students watching the war reports disagreed. “I’m really disturbed but not surprised that the people of this country are
backing this so much,” said junior Jay Kirtley.

“History has shown that violence and war have sown the seeds for more peace and violence. Already we have created
what has been intense hatred in the region for generations to come. The people of America are watching this like
it's a Rambo movie.”

Those students firmly devoted to a decision of peace could only

Continued on Page 3

Photo By Chris Lee

An unsigned poster urges students not to demonstrate against Middle East involvement.

Davidson Students Remember Relatives

By John Wilson

War is a word to some, a reality to others. Here at Davidson, the U.S.-Iraq War has become a definite
reality. To some, however, the war has taken on a different meaning, one involving the very life of a loved
one.

Grey Timberlake ’93, has a brother, Rufus J. Timberlake, serving as a 2nd Lieutenant pilot with the special Apache Helicopter
force. Rufus graduated from Davidson in ’89 and was in the ROTC for four years. He was sent to the
Middle East two weeks ago. Rufus is 23 years old.

“It did not truly hit me until last night,” said Grey. “It was such a shock... When you have a
relative over there the war seems to take on a different perspective.” As the night rolled on Grey’s perspective intensified
when she learned that seven Apache Helicopters were sent into Iraq. In reaction to that episode she stated, “I can’t
even

Continued on Page 3

Davidson Students March For Peace in Nation's Capital

By Sarah Sadowski

This past Saturday a group of approximately thirty Davidson students, faculty, and others associated with Davidson participated in the anti-war
protest in Lafayette Park in Washington D.C. This group joined about 15,000 others in the park, directly opposite the White
House. The rally was organized by an anti-war group based in the Washington area.

Speakers, ranging from the mother of an American soldier in the Middle East to the Reverend Jesse Jackson, inspired the
group for most of the afternoon. At 2:00 p.m., a march began from the park to Capitol Hill, blocking many
of the streets and drawing many spectators to the street sides. Police activity was high throughout the day, with officers
surrounding the park and patrolling the march areas, especially around the F.B.I. building. Some protesters were arrested for trying to
get into the White House yard.

The day ended with a gathering near the Smithsonian and the Museum of Natural History, at which speakers ended the
rally and march with a demand to President Bush to immediately withdraw the troops from Saudi Arabia and to

Newspapers and television coverage of the protest labelled many of the protesters as ‘60’s

Continued on Page 3
