THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991

Patterson Court Officers Elected
By Laura Blair

Now that all of the excitement of Self-Selection has died down, it is time for a Patterson Court update. Over
the past few weeks, the houses on and off the court have held elections for new officers. Many new freshman
faces can be seen at all of the houses, after many of them self-selected the eating house of their choice.

The Black Student’s Coalition’s new officers are: President - Terry Hines, Vice-President - Anthony Foxx, Secretary - Michelle Blake, Treasurer
- Ronald Horton, Freshman Representative - Phiderika Foust, S.G.A. Representative - Athan Lindsay, Social Committee Chairperson - Ingrid Page, Publicity
Chairperson - Anissa Patton, Special Events’ Chairperson - Machelle Sweeting, Recruitment and Orientation Chairperson - LaGuardia Smith, and House Manager
- Tony Perez.

The Kappa Alpha Order has 23 freshman pledges. The new officers are as follows: President - Carter Payne, Vice-President -
Robert Rostan, Secretary - Russ Tisinger, Treasurer - Rob Malanuk, Chapter Secretary - David Thompson, Ritualist - Richard Hills, Sergeant-At-Arms
- Kevin Asbill, Knight Usher - Stewart Holt, and Scholarship Chairman - Matt Bumstead.

Kappa Sigma has 33 freshmen pledges. Their new officers are: President - Nelson Carter, Vice-President - Jason Phillips, Secretary -
Andrew Spainhour, Scribes - Doug Long and Scott Windham, and Grand Master of Ceremony - Lindsey Clarke.

Phi Delta Theta has nine freshman pledges. Their new officers are: President - Andy Hunt, Vice-President - Moyland Smith, Secretary
- Dave Tonidanel, Treasurer - Smith Lilly, Social Chairpersons - Mike Malloy and Mike Fresina, Warden - Joe Azzolino, and
Pledge Trainer - Dave Wright.

Phi Gamma Delta has eight freshman pledges. The new officers are: President - Jared Baxter, Treasurer - Rick Bender, Recording
Secretary - Brad Griffin, Corresponding Secretary - Craig Bohart, and Historian - Preston Yarborough.

Pi Kappa Alpha has 17 freshman pledges. The new officers are: President - Cordell Jones, Vice-Presidents - Robbie Huber and
Phil Degnan, Secretary - Robert Grubb, Treasurer - John Woodall, Social Chairpersons - John Alsobrook and Mark Swofford, Pledge Trainers
- Lee Irvin and Phillip Motley, Community Service Chair - Chuck Scofield, and House Managers - David Sessoms, David Broyles,
and Tosh Crystal.

Sixty freshman girls joined Rusk House. Their new officers are: President - Annie Adams, Vice-President - Sarah Nall, Secretary -
Molly Yarborough, Treasurer - Carrington Magnum, Service Chairpersons - Chris Beasley and Catherine Turner, House Managers - Beth McCain and
Jennifer McCraw, Social Chairpersons - Mary Bryan and Mary Faith Mount, Member-at-Large - Liz Clarke, and Kitchen Managers - Stewart
Lathan and Caroline Williamson.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon has 19 freshman pledges. The new officers are: President - Bob Dixon, Vice-President - Powell Spears, Secretary
- Steven Lilly, Treasurer - David Hall, and Pledge Trainers - Flea Farmer and Elliot Crutchfield.

Sigma Phi Epsilon has 22 freshman pledges. Their new officers are: President - Todd Newnam, Vice-President - John Delso, Secretary
- Barry Evans, Treasurer - Rob Fowler, Alumni Secretary - Greg Weinig, Social Chairperson - Brad Glosson, House Manager -
Tait Lane, Kitchen Manager - Michael Sappenfield, Rush Chair and Pledge Educator - Drew Harriss.

Twenty-one freshman girls joined the Spencer House. Their new officers are: President - Tammy Winn, Service Chairperson - Debbie deSola,
New Member Chairperson - Erin Lee, Secretary - Leila Salisbury, Treasurer - Mary Jo Dendy, Social Chairpersons - Bethan Faust
and Paige Scarlett, House Managers - Carla Badgett and Joanna Flinn, Publicity Chairperson - Susan Langford, and Historian - Heather
McGarrah.

Sixty-one freshman girls joined Warner Hall. Their new officers are: President - Monica Lide, Social Chairperson - Cherry Rhyne, Assistant
Social Chairperson - Holt Hathaway, Treasurer - Nethea Rhinehart, Historians - Jessica Reinertsen and Christy Knight, Service Chairperson - Rachel
Epps, Assistant Service Chairperson - Mimi Plauche, Kitchen Managers - Margaret Baker and Simone Plaisance, Secretary - Amy Norwood, Members-at-Large
- Liza White (Senior), Hillary Coman (Junior), and Elizabeth McLaughlin (Sophomore).

Inside Charlotte
The Charlotte Troll Goes to Mooresville
By Rob Kelley

When I first thought of writing another article for INSIDE CHARLOTTE, we were directly in the middle of the Gulf
Crisis. Consequently, Amazing Rob, the Charlotte Troll, was not about to guzzle his gas down to Charlotte. Instead, I turned
my sights northward--Inside Mooresville.

Hidden down a dark and winding road in upper Mooresville sits a low brick building. It hides in the night
like some druidic lodge. The only things that might dispel this are the tiny sign near the road and the
mildly conspicuous four-foot tall lighted letters that read: “You must be 16 or older to play pool.” Beyond the tables,
over the bowling pits, lie the alleys. Their light floods the entire back half of the building, and is almost
too bright to look at. Bowls thunder down the lanes, crashing loudly into the varnished phalanx. It was then that
I realized: Inside Moor Lanes, the scene is typical: Most of them are between 35 and 40. Dirty t-shirts are
de rigueur. The women wear tight, stone-washed jeans.set into “B-O-W-L-I-N-G.” Inside Moor Lanes, the scene is typical: a number of
non-college people out having a good time. Most of them seem between thirty-five and forty. Dirty t-shirts are de rigueur.
The women wear tight, stone-washed jeans. A snack bar stands to the left of the door, the front desk to
the right. The thin carpet that covers the cement resembles the patterned rugs common to all such establishments. Four pool
tables cross the floor before me, with three or four pinball machines on the left side, eight or ten video
games on the right. A sign gone too far, life without bowling is no life at all. The gaudy shoes,
the blister you get on the inside of your thumb, the pitiful score that is shown via video screen to
the entire crowd. If you miss it as much as I do, you might want to check out one night
this dark temple hidden within the woods of Mooresville. Take Highway 115 (Main Street) north for about five miles. When
you reach the first stoplight (Brawley), turn left over the railroad tracks, then right onto the road that runs parallel
along the other side. Continue on this road about two miles. The building will be on the left. If you
pass a First Union, you’ve gone too far.

Seeing Double, Etc. Why Hangovers Are So Ugly By Marlo Cobb.

The effect that alcohol has on your body depends in part on the method of intoxication you prefer. Any form
of hard liquor is absorbed faster than wine, which is absorbed faster than beer, because there are more substances in
beer besides alcohol which compete with the alcohol for absorption along the intestinal wall. To slow the emptying of the
stomach into the small intestine, where the most alcohol is absorbed, have some whole milk or cheese before going out.
Bread will help, but not as well because of its low fat content. The carbon dioxide in bubbly alcoholic drinks,
including champagne, supposedly has the opposite effect; it speeds up the digestive process by opening the valve between stomach and
intestine. Alcohol is also absorbed into the body to some extent from the stomach and colon, and once it leaves
the digestive tract, it is rapidly distributed to all tissues. A breathalyzer works with such accuracy because alcohol is present
in exhaled air in the same proportion as alcohol present in the blood, so a numerical portion of the alcohol
content in your breath can be easily converted to blood content, and from there to your level of drunkenness. Alcohol
is broken down like a carbohydrate. While it is being burned as energy, it is removed from the system as
a drug. This metabolization of alcohol is about the only way to remove the alcohol from your body, since only
about 5-10 percent is excreted in the breath and urine. The problem is that not much can be metabolized at
once. A certain enzyme, ADH (alcohol dehydrogenase), is necessary to break alcohol down. ADH is present only in the liver,
and to a lesser degree in the testes and retina. ADH originally existed in our systems to deal with natural
alcoholic substances produced by the body which would poison us if they were allowed to accumulate. ADH works slowly and
consistently, dealing with about 7 grams of alcohol per hour, which means it takes 2 hours to deal with the
amount of alcohol in one 12-oz. beer. One by-product of this is an accumulation of lactase in the form of
lactic acid, which is associated with muscle fatigue and cramps. Because muscles cannot use alcohol as an energy source until
after ADH has done its part, exercise won't get you sober any faster. There are various alternatives that will speed
up the breakdown of alcohol, including taking certain drugs, or injecting fructose intravenously, not very pleasant alternatives to “waiting it
out.” Everyone knows that alcohol acts as a depressant on the nervous system. So, what about that “party frenzy” that
hits some of us? Why do some people seem to have taken megadoses of caffeine and drink? This “high” is
a symptom of alcohol’s stupefying influence on the higher functions of the brain, which include the inhibitory mechanisms which control
our doing stupid things in public. As more alcohol reaches the brain, other of its functions are tampered with, we
lose coordination, our vision blurs, and we can’t concentrate on anything. We can’t even speak correctly. If enough alcohol is
present, unconsciousness will follow. Another thing alcohol does is to interfere with some pituitary and adrenal hormones that act as
diuretics. This causes increased water secretion: Basically, more trips to the bathroom. I have been told that it is especially
bad to order alcohol on air-

Continued on Page 12
