18 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

Hockey Goes 3-3-1 Over Two Weeks With Win Over Wake

By: Jennifer Roos

The hockey team is adjusting to something new this season: LOSING. They do not have the opportunity to repeat last
season’s record with one loss, yet even with more losses the team is much better than last year’s team. It
is very ironic, and the team is having to adjust for this pseudo consolation prize.

Before fall break, Davidson faced the University of Louisville and Longwood College. It took two overtimes before the game ended
in a tie 1-1 against Louisville. Sophomore Suzanne Hardesty scored the second goal of her career in the second half
from twenty-five yards out. The Cardinals retaliated on a very bizarre goal. The ball must cross the line before counting
as a goal as in any other sport, yet their shot hit the inside posts of the cage then bounced
outward. This was the first tie of the season for the Wildcats.

The following day the Wildcats took their frustration out on a small school from Farmville, Virginia. Davidson used their strong
passing game to earn a 2-0 victory. Co-captain Mary Russ and junior Jennifer Roos each scored a goal while Emily
Coleman preserved the shutout.

While most Davidson students were tanning on a sunny beach or beating up their younger siblings at home, the hockey
team was off to Richmond to face first-time opponents Virginia Commonwealth University and the University of Richmond. Along with these
two games, Davidson participated in a Challenge Discovery which is a leadership and trust course of mental and physical activities.

Davidson rose to the occasion against VCU, a top twenty team, to play their best and last turf game of
the season. The Rams were held scoreless until twenty minutes remaining in the first half, then scored off a corner
and would later follow up with two more goals solely off corner attempts. Even though much of the game was
played in the middle of the field, VCU dominated in corner attempts while Davidson had only one corner. They made
that one count early in the second half. Jacquelin Ukrop took the hit out to Jenny Plowright, who stopped the
ball dead for the striker Roos. It was perfectly executed, and this sparked the team for the remainder of the
game. As a result, the Rams were forced to play most of the game with their starters. The Wildcats held
VCU 2-1 in the second half and were able to walk off the field with their heads up.

The Richmond game was more of a disappointment for Davidson after having an excellent turf game because they were held
scoreless. The Wildcats were unable to sustain a decisively long offensive surge until the second half. They had several breakaway
attempts by Ukrop and junior Simone Plaisance, but Richmond’s defense thwarted each attempt. The Wildcats allowed three goals.

In need of a win, the Wildcats preyed upon their next opponent High Point on the following Thursday. Davidson ended
their scoring drought by racking up six goals. They took control from the opening whistle with a corner attempt in
the first fifteen seconds. Russ and Ukrop each scored in the first half. More goals followed in the second half
as Meg Miller scored her first and second goals of her career and was inches away from a hat trick.

Men's Tennis Tops UNCC ‘49ers, Coastal Chanticleers

By Robert Grubb

The men’s tennis team continued to roll through its fall season with victories in the Davidson Fall Classic over two
traditionally tough opponents, UNCC and Coastal Carolina. The Wildcats nearly shut out the Forty-Niners on Friday, posting an 11-2 win,
and lost no momentum in beating Coastal 7-2.

UNCC has traditionally been a nemesis to the Wildcats. The two teams have played each other quite closely over the
past several seasons. UNCC, however, lost its number two and three players from last season to graduation and academic ineligibility,
respectively. Coach Jeff Frank was especially pleased with the play of Albie Varoski, who defeated Stan Cocke, who beat Varoski
last year. Davidson suffered its only loss at the number one doubles position.

On Saturday, the ‘Cats came up with a big win over Big South rival Coastal Carolina. Davidson demonstrated its great
depth by coming up with victories in the bottom four singles slots. Holt Vaughan, Dave Tonidandel, and Chris Parker all
rallied to win three-set matches. Frank was once again pleased with the play of freshmen Vaughan and Daniel Grinnan, who
won at three and four singles respectively. “The way our team works we must get wins from our three and
four players in order to win,” said Frank.

Frank was happy not only with the comebacks in singles but also with the team’s doubles play. The ‘Cats responded
to Frank’s mid-week meeting that emphasized the importance of doubles to the team. The ‘Cats went into the match trying
to play aggressively at the net to take advantage of the two baselining Swedish players in the Chanticleers’ lineup. Russell
Briggs and Dale Voeks especially took Frank’s message to heart, winning the first ten games of the match en route
to a 6-0, 6-2 victory at number two doubles. Beyer and Vaughan also rallied from their loss on Friday to
overcome a 5-2 deficit in the third set to force a tiebreaker. The ‘Cats won the tiebreaker to sweep the
doubles.

Frank sees the success the Wildcats have been having this fall in his players' attitudes. “We went...Out with confidence on
Saturday, especially in the doubles,” said Frank. “We have gone into the doubles leading 4-2 before, and lost, but the
players were determined not to let that happen this time.” The ‘Cats turned in another strong performance on Sunday, defeating
William and Mary (9-3). Varoski suffered one of the few three-set losses of the weekend for Davidson, falling 7-5 in
the third. In what Frank called the best match of the weekend, Tonidandel pulled out an incredible comeback victory. After
winning the first set, Tonidandel lost the second set and found himself down 5-1 in the third. Tonidandel’s serve then
turned into a weapon and he forced a tiebreaker. In the tiebreaker, Tonidandel held five match points before winning the
tiebreaker 16-14, for the win.

The Wildcats will be in action at home on Thursday, with a match against Queens.

Photo By Trey Rust

Hat trick. Then the “FRESHMEN CONNECTION” came alive. Freshmen Missy Potts and Nancy Hilles each scored off deflections. Andrea Short
and Robin Pepper had strong shot attempts on goal and were supported by Megan Snyder at right halfback. Freshmen goalie
Mary Ferguson sealed the victory with a shutout. Sophomore Jesse Coltrane said, “The second half was a better reflection of
our passing game because we were more composed and the energy level was really high.”

The Wildcats lost a heartbreaker to Catawba the next week on a last-second shot. Even though Davidson had over twenty-five
shots on goal, they were unable to score. Ukrop had a reverse stick deflection off a pass from Hardesty, but
the goal was called back. Catawba will travel to Davidson on Homecoming weekend, and the Wildcats are planning an unfriendly
homecoming for them.

Davidson earned a hard-fought victory against Wake Forest by defeating the Demon Deacons 1-0 in a sudden death overtime. This
game was of the utmost importance because the victor would be the number one seed at the Deep South Tournament.
Davidson had beaten Wake three previous times yet was considered the underdog playing on their field. The Wildcats were inches
away from taking a 1-0 lead in the second half when a goal by junior Monique Dockter was disallowed. The
game remained scoreless through regulation play and was forced into an overtime, then a sudden death overtime. Freshman Missy Potts
ended the scoring stalemate with a goal from ten yards out. She slammed the ball in on a gorgeous cross-field
pass by senior Lauren Follmer, who was credited with the assist. After the goal, Potts was tackled by the Wildcats
and carried off the field by her teammates. Again the shutout was preserved by goalie Emily Coleman. This game was
also a memorable game for Coach Pryor because it was her first game of the season coaching the Wildcats since
her pregnancy. Davidson’s next game is against Catawba on Friday at 4:30 and Radford on Saturday at 3:00.

ON THE SPORTS FRONT

ACC Football: It Sucks
By Bruce Balestier

I’ve had about enough of the hype that the ACC is a good football conference; it’s not. Let’s take a
look at some recent results. Saturday, Georgia Tech, previously touted as a possible repeat national champion, lost 23-14 to a
poor South Carolina team, the one that tied Duke. There’s a little credo one can utilize when dealing with ACC
football: when an ACC team plays a good team, they almost always lose. Witness Tech’s convincing loss at the hands
of mediocre Penn State. Witness Clemson’s pummeling at the hands of Georgia, the same Georgia that Saturday lost to Vanderbilt.
And how about North Carolina. They entered the top 25 on the strength of a win over Cincinnati (remember Penn
State 81 Cincinnati 0), then gave up 36 points to I-AA William and Mary, as rather eloquent proof that they
didn’t belong. N.C. State then made the top 25 by beating Carolina, and moved up to #11 by nipping Tech.
Saturday, they needed two touchdowns in the final three minutes to beat I-AA Marshall of the Southern Conference 15-14. How
weak is that? Still, though, they are undefeated, and if they beat Clemson next week it will be a straight
shot into the Florida Citrus Bowl. Maybe, like Georgia Tech did last year, they will beat some highly-ranked team that
is supposed to be good, and the pollsters will decide to hook a team that is actually deserving of the
title.

It seems ridiculous to think that Florida State could enter a bowl game with 1 loss (say, to Florida) but
ranked #1, beat a good team and not get the title. But then I think back to last year. Colorado
played arguably the toughest schedule in the land, was ranked #1 and beat a very good Notre Dame team in
the Orange Bowl, but lost out to Tech in the UPI poll. Tech, meanwhile, had gone through that rigorous ACC
schedule without a loss (just a tie with that powerhouse North Carolina squad). Then they beat a Nebraska team in
the Florida Citrus Bowl that hadn’t beaten a ranked opponent in three years. It seems odd that the combination of
a weak schedule and a bowl win over a good, but not very good, team would be a formula for
the national championship, but apparently it is. Georgia Tech was a very good team, top 10 perhaps, but #1 they
were not. The prospect of N.C. State doing something similar this year makes me want to scratch my eyes out.
