MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

Campus Living

Let's Get Nekkid, Boys: Davidson Nudity Explored

By David Smyth

In a purely unacademic discussion, it was once explained to me that “naked” is what you get and “nude” is
what you are. Gettin’ naked (or nekkid, as we are in the grand old South) also sounds a lot more
fun than (hee hee, blush) being nude.

People at Davidson get nekkid for a whole slew of reasons, no matter what our Puritanical backgrounds have tried to
hammer into our once-malleable psyches: Girls/Women here get nekkid, but not always for the same reasons as the guys/men do.
They reserve this experience for closed doors with very few other people present to share the experience. Guys don’t, always.
In fact, sometimes they revel in the publicity generated by gettin’ nekkid in the wide open spaces of our fair
campus and cities far, far away.

Fraternities generate most of the indecent (or decent, for some of us) male exposure that pervades Davidson and other places
on pledge road trips, on which many chores include gettin’ nekkid at famous or semi-famous landmarks, including the Peachtree Plaza
in Atlanta, the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, DC, and Franklin Street in Chapel Hill. A number of Pikas graced the
glass Peachtree elevator two years ago with their unclad finery. There was an unforeseen catch in the plan, though, as
the other person in the rising tube was a non-English-speaking man who had trouble understanding the ruckus until nekkidness was
gotten. Lucky for our schoolmates, charges were not pressed and no hostile embassies were notified of the nekkid ride to
the top.

One sophomore of an anonymous house tried to explain the relative merits of gettin’ nekkid, or “dropping trow,” on road
trips but was reduced to a mere, “It’s just kind of like, uh...” He was a little more helpful when
discussing the amount of gall one should pretend to have before dropping trow all over the Southeast. “The first time
you’re a little bit shy, I guess. But by the time Sunday rolls around, you wanna get naked everywhere. You
don’t care.” His favorite get-nekkid stunt involved mounting a colossal (100 feet, he claims) billboard on I-85 and dropping trow
on top of it. “Cars were driving by, honking and stuff. I had to take the picture so I didn’t
climb it. We also got naked in front of historical landmarks and stuff.” One birthday suit dream that went unfulfilled
that weekend was a nekkid drive-thru of random McDonald’s. No guts amongst the heralded nudists, however. The rest of the
conversation included an oft-repeated refrain, “I don’t think you should put that in, either.”

Sometimes dropping trow can land an otherwise innocent naked college kid in the pokey. A group from another house learned
as much when they had that Sunday nekkid fever so nicely described for us by the helpful sophomore. These boys
were driving out of Charleston after a particularly boisterous weekend trip when they ran into a traffic jam on I-26.
Seeing the flagman pass cars along the highway was too much.

Seniors Begin Search For Jobs

By Kim Munsterman

“Resumés, cover letters, on-campus and off-campus interviews, traveling, buying ‘interview clothes’...” Senior Sally Christian lists just a few activities that
may be all too familiar to many Davidson seniors on their quest for a post-graduation job. Many seniors report that
the current state of the economy has rendered this already difficult task even more challenging.

Christian has been applying and interviewing for foreign language teaching positions in private schools. Although she will probably not know
whether she will be offered a job until May or June, she senses that there could be cut-backs and consolidations
of teaching positions. She states, “There seem to be fewer places to apply and competition is keener.” These thoughts are
echoed by other seniors as well.

Senior Marc Crotts has sent out 50 resumés, yet so far has had “no job offers and plenty of rejections.”
He too cites competition as a main factor in his difficulties; “The competition at Davidson has definitely made it difficult.
We are all from similar backgrounds and after a while we are definitely having a difficult time facing seniors.” He
explains, “With the economy being at a low point and many companies closing down, merging, or cutting back on new
hires, there really are going to be fewer jobs offered.” This is evidenced by the decreased number of recruiters coming
to the Davidson campus and the number of companies choosing not to visit campuses anymore. Jordan says that other liberal
arts colleges are similarly experiencing the effects of the recession. Still, maintains Jordan, it is too early to market the
success of the seniors, as on-campus interviews generally did not begin until mid-January.and many students are just now receiving callbacks
for second interviews.

Photo by Chris Lee

"It’s hard to stand out. The second factor," says Crotts, "is the state of the economy." Carol Jordan, Director of
the Careers Office, describes this as...

What can seniors and underclassmen do to facilitate this job search process? "The job market will always have its ups..."

Continued on Page 13

Photo By Hilary Hills

...determine the job of a temptation, though, as the urge to get one last flash in for the lovely South
Carolinians struck them with a fury. As the guys stripped down and began to help the man with his arduous
task, a dues-paying member of the Bible Belt Nazis Against Fun tried to run them into the ditch with his
car, a most unfriendly gesture. A painful realization of the legal ramifications of this soon hit the pledges as one
of Charleston’s not-so-tolerant finest decided to run them in for getting naked in too much publicity. The story has a
scary middle but a happy ending as the jail experience was theirs for about 11 hours but a sympathetic jury
found them innocent of any serious wrongdoing and let them off.

Not everybody bares butt from fraternity coercion, however. Sometimes it can result from a severe case of bad judgment, as
happened to two juniors we’ll call Dummy T and Dummy P (D’you hear that? We’re using code names!) one fine
spring evening last year. The story unfolded like this: as the two watched the UNLV-Duke game last year, at halftime
Dummy T boldly dared, “If Duke loses by 30 or more, I’ll go to class nude.” Nobody thought much of
his empty rhetoric until the rout wound down and Duke’s deficit hovered at about 30 points.

At about this point, T qualified his reckless former statement by saying that UNLV would have to win by exactly
30, or no nakedness. Also at this time, Dummy P had his fate inextricably linked to T’s by saying that
he’d get naked with him in case the impossible happened. With 10 seconds left, the impossible did happen when Duke’s
Crawford Palmer hit one of two free throws to make it 103-73, an even 30, and send the Dummies to
class with nary a stitch of clothes. As T recounted the story, “We really couldn’t go to class nude, so
we ran through the library nude. I can’t believe that happened... I still can’t believe that happened.” Dummies T and
P ran through a tunnel of guys from their hall and made a grand entrance to the first floor of
the E.H. Little Library, shirts safely over their heads to protect their fragile egos but not more strategic parts of
their anatomy. Getting naked offers a hell of a social outlet for some of those in our midst, one that
should not be taken lightly by well-dressed students or administrators. Let’s give ‘em our heartfelt support.

By Trevor Wade

Ethnocentricity is not only disturbing, it is a dangerous phenomenon. Take, for example, the Gulf Crisis, in which two men
too proud to make decisions for the benefit of the multitudes wage instead, a war in our name. If we
could temper our frustrations, inhale slowly ten times, pause, listen, and endeavor to understand the other, perhaps we would not
be, at this moment, needlessly slaying ourselves. Some insist that war is natural. Some claim that war is childish. Children
understand the world with their whole being; adults perceive things only with their minds. Children would never kill. Perhaps war
is adultish. Ignorance is the cause of war. We declare our society to be rational, sane, civilized, and mature, when
small-mindedness clearly prevails. How then, do the British cabinet members secretly characterize all Germans as aggressive, bullying, domineering, and possessing
of insecurity complexes? Is this enlightenment? Are our criticisms perhaps superimposed reflections of ourselves? Do we criticize most severely those
faults we share with others?

“If You Only Open Your Eyes.”

“Who are you?” he demanded, thunderstruck. “We are roses,” the roses said. And he was overcome with sadness. His flower
had told him that she was the only one of her kind in all the universe. And here were five
thousand of them, all alike, in one single garden! “She would be very much annoyed,” he said to himself, “if
she should see that.” ... “I thought that I was rich, with a flower that was unique in all the
world; and all I had was a common rose.”

In Germany, I am constantly bombarded with criticisms of the United States. In America, I am incessantly besieged by those
looking for affirmations of stereotypical assumptions about Germans. My heart is torn apart. Must we always see the negative before
the positive? Are...

Continued on Page 14
