THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Property Continued from page 1

Sutton believes is “affordable.” The development on this property will be relatively slow and will take place in a number
of phases over a seven to nine-year period. Therefore, the speed of the development will be driven by the needs
of college employees and not the needs of the public.

The next step in this development is for Sutton and others to talk with Davidson Town Commissioners and the Planning
Board about zoning issues. Sutton said that he hopes that development will begin at the end of this month. He
said, “It appears that we’re on the right track to what people want.” Sutton also believes that the construction of
houses will begin by late next summer.

Wednesday night at the open senate meeting held in Chambers, Steven Summers, chair of the Auxiliary Services Council, reported on
the laundry, the Union Cafe, Vail Commons, and parking tickets. Summers reported that the $200 fee paid by all students
is necessary to keep the laundry in operation; these funds are used to maintain the free laundry machines around campus.
Summers addressed the issue of prices in the Union Cafe, saying that they were supposed to fall “between Cashion’s and
the Pantry’s prices. Our cafe’s prices cannot be as low as Cashion’s due to a period volume.” Summers is planning
to update prices in the cafe to...

Continued from page 2

Frist predicted that the ALM may work on promoting the integration of people with other diseases into society, just as
it has done with lepers. Frist first became interested in the treatment of leprosy during his travels in India on
a Fulbright grant. After graduating from Yale’s public health school, Frist contacted the ALM and was sent to Tanzania to
study the causes and preventions of leprosy. Finally, Frist traveled to Brazil to study the integration of lepers for what
turned out to be fifteen years. Frist has spent over half of his life living abroad. The treatment of leprosy
interests him because it involves “history, religion, medicine, sociology, and psychology.”

ALM hopes that, in the future, people will not be ashamed to admit their contraction of the disease so that
they might be treated as quickly as possible.

Streets Continued from page 1

...storage shed and a faculty/staff social at 3 p.m. about environmental issues. On Friday, Environmental Awareness Day, there will be
a display of how much trash 1500 students can use in one day. This event will take place in front
of the Union. Kappa Sigma will have its annual 100-inning softball game on Saturday. Proceeds will go to the Davidson
Habitat for Humanity. That evening Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Phi Delta Theta will hold parties with an optional $1.00 admission
fee. Proceeds from these parties will go to the CROP Walk.

Kathy Beach, coordinator for Reach Out, has high hopes for the week. She said, “The purpose is to get people
involved in service and to raise campus awareness. We hope to unite all of the volunteer programs to work towards
one goal and to concentrate in the Davidson community.”

Honor Continued from page 1

...qualified member” of the honor system and could be called to sit on a jury. Stone also voiced her concerns
over the present system requiring of students a “fearful respect of the unknown.” The system should be replaced by one
that emphasizes “trust and confidence” according to Stone. Stone felt that the implementation of a self-selected jury system would “bridge
the gap” she sees now between the honor council and students. In addition, Stone felt that the jury process would
allow for interested students to be brought into the honor system process. “We are a part...Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of the honor system and should not just be subject to the code,” Stone said. Howell followed Stone and thanked
those in attendance for the opportunity to express student concerns directly to the council. “It is important to rededicate ourselves
to look at the present system, and to make it better,” Howell said, “but, as chair, I will not partake
in anything that will diminish this system.” He emphasized specifically his unwillingness to sacrifice the right to be tried by
those students elected to the honor council. Howell went on to say that he “will not remain on the council
if the system is changed.” Howell also discussed his role as honor council chair, to serve as a “devil’s advocate”
in cases and explore all corners and possibilities in cases. After the opening presentations of the panelists, the forum was
opened to questions by students.

David Johnson began the discussion by addressing the lack of familiarity of the code among students. Howell noted that he
shared many of the same concerns. The discussion progressed onto the logistics of installing a jury system. Thompson mentioned that
a jury system would individualize each case and would prevent council members’ objectivity from becoming diluted after repeated honor cases.
Foxx contended that objectivity is not a problem with the council as the rotation of members for honor trials helps
to maintain a “fresh perspective.” The discussion then turned to the idea to include more students in the honor code
processes. “The desire to be involved in the system is obvious with the number of people who sign up to
run for the honor council, people want to be involved,” senior Steven Lilly said. John Patton, student solicitor for the
honor council, expressed his concerns with opening up the process to the general student body. Patton was worried that a
jury system would jeopardize the confidentiality of the council trial process. Patton said that as the council works now, there
are ramifications for members who break the silence of a case, their dismissal from the council. With the jury system,
Patton felt there would be little to protect the confidentiality of a case. Covington closed the discussion, saying that the
SGA, the Student Conduct Council, and Dean Will Terry will be looking at the issue over the next several weeks.

Drugs Continued from page 1 can be used to make a nourishing gruel, which helped one South American country survive
a famine. Jay Neal focused primarily on the positive economic impact of legalization. It would drastically reduce the 500 million
dollars that the government spends on the Drug Enforcement Agency each year.

THE LARGEST SUNGLASS SHOP IN THE CAROLINAS
QUALITY-SELECTION-SERVICE-PRICE
SEE OUR SELECTION OF OPTICAL FRAMES FROM 19.95 TO 39.95
(704) 892-6017
LAKE NORMAN, N.C. EXIT 28, I-77, CORNELIUS, SOUTHLAKE SHOPPING CENTER (NEXT TO HARRIS TEETER)

Student Government News
“meal plan could not eat dinner business. Summers also stated that may have caused the small turnout. Cammie Covington, SGA
President, said that kiosks and are not able to be refunded for meals they do not eat on their plan
and why students with the Union Cafe. The concern with the parking tickets was what is being done with the
money made from the tickets. All Senate meetings are open. However, the one Wednesday night was planned to give students
the opportunity to voice their opinions and concerns about any campus issue. Despite the fact that only one student attended,
the Senate was able to bring up some important issues. A pertinent issue which at this meeting by students was
the issue of campus communication.

FORD’S "Catering YOU Can Afford"
FORD’S SEAFOOD, BBQ & CATERING
"FAMILY OWNED & OPERATED"
Hwy. 21 South CORNELIUS N.C.
TELEPHONE Call (704) 892-3362
HOURS: LUNCH TUES.-FRI. 11AM-2PM | DINNER TUES.-SAT. 5PM-9PM
10% OFF WITH COUPON
Present with College Student or Faculty ID For 10% Off Your Next Meal at Ford's
