MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991

Campus Living

Four Students Study Wildlife Management In Kenya

By Jennifer Sieck

“Hujambo Kenya!” Four Davidson students said, “Hello Kenya!” as they embarked on a semester in Kenya this fall. Catherine Harrington, Don Hastings, Melissa Payne, and LeAnn Simmons studied with 18 other college and university students on the Wildlife Management program, sponsored by the School for Field Studies. Their experience was markedly different from other study abroad programs in many ways.

For three months, they lived on a game ranch, the International Wildlife Ranch and Research, about 45 minutes southeast of Nairobi (by Land Rover on unpaved roads). Students took four classes: Wildlife Management, Cultural Ecology, Environment and Society, and Population and Community Ecology. In groups, students completed a research project and presented a paper on their study. Payne’s group examined “The Effects of Cattle in Bomas on the Environment;” Harrington and Hastings observed with their group “The Effects of Cropping on Grant’s and Thompson’s Gazelles.”

A typical day on the ranch included rising at 7 a.m.; one or two lengthy lectures (usually about four hours apiece); going out on the ranch in Land Rovers to do research; and, finally, bed between 9 and 11 p.m. after doing homework by lantern-light. Everyone slept in sleeping bags in their bandas (thatched huts) or in tents. (Payne defined a banda as “a thatched hut housing four people and several spiders.”) There was no electricity, no hot running water, no inside bathrooms, no common phones or televisions. Bathroom facilities included an enclosed hole in the ground called a choo, and gravity showers. Teams of students took turns cooking meals.

The group rode around the ranch in Land Rovers to do research or to go on game drives. Three times the program went on safari, off the ranch. On and off the ranch, the group saw giraffe, elephants, gazelle, impala, ostriches, cheetah, oryx, lions, African buffalo, vervet monkey, warthogs, hyrax, kongoni, zebras, and wildebeests, to name a few animals. Payne said she “really liked being around animals.” The program had a pet cheetah; and, during the fall, some ostrich chicks were found on the ranch and brought to the compound to be raised.

Animals proved as potentially dangerous as they were exciting to see. “Some guys went jogging once and got chased by a warthog,” recounted Harrington. A dog had gone with the runners and flushed the animals out of the underbrush. Someone else found a cobra curled up in a corner of the choo. Payne learned an important distinction in...

Continued on Page 13

When the temperature gets chilly, what’s the best way to warm up? The 900 Room was the place to be to get warm last Friday, Jan. 18. Cultural Events, Intimate Performances, and the 900 Room sponsored a Chili Cookoff for the second year. The chili cooks and chili lovers had about 20 different recipes to choose from. Here are the winners of the cookoff, and their prizewinning recipes.

First Place: The Women’s Tennis Team
Tina Laidlaw and Christine Booker were the cooks of this chili, but the recipe comes from the kitchen of Julie Brewer.

2 lbs. lean ground beef
1 onion
1 can of dark red kidney beans
1 can of crushed or diced tomatoes
1 can of Campbell tomato soup
1 small jar of Mild Pace Picante Sauce

Brown the ground beef, and add the diced onions. When the beef is brown, drain it and put it into a large pot, and add everything else. Cook for 20 to 30 minutes, stirring constantly. Simmer for one hour.

Second Place: Thomas Helland
“I made this recipe up! I’m not a great cook, but I like Mexican cuisine.”

12 oz. bottle of Shiner Beer
“a lot” of chili powder
“many” jalapenos
15 oz. can of kidney beans
1-1 1/2 lbs. of ground beef
15 oz. can of tomato sauce
sauteed onions

Brown the ground beef, saute the onions, throw it all into a pot and let it simmer for a couple of hours, stirring occasionally.

Third Place: The Boys of NBA 201 (Jay Chaudhuri, Jeff Fraley, Reed Finlay, and Gary Wheeler). This recipe hails from Fort Worth, Texas. Although it did not finish first, it did however manage to be the first entry to run out of chili. Naturally, The Davidsonian wonders...why it wasn't awarded first? 1 lb. Jimmy Dean Pork Sausage 8-9 lbs Chuck roast, not ground 2 med. onions finely chopped 2 cups tomatoes, finely chopped 6 tablespoons Spice Island Chili Mix 2.5 tablespoons ground cumin Continued on Page 13

By Chris Clark

MONTPELLIER, FRANCE - While wasting away on yet another French train as I do this “Europe Thing,” I wonder how I can possibly rescue my brain from evolving into a baguette. So why not write to that “worldly” and occasionally “weekly” paper known as the Davidsonian? Et donc, voila! Tips to Travel By: advice that specifically avoids those la-dee-da monotonous travelogues and colorless “guess you had to be there” experiences normally given after the fact by JYA-ers. For easy reading, I'll follow a city-by-city Let’s Go format, the only difference being that mine is better.

So, let’s start with a gateway city, AMSTERDAM. Busy train station. Fifteen bucks for infamously bland Dutch “cuisine.” Unless you have Daddy’s gold card, or you are a devoted toker, take a photo of a canal as proof you were there... and then leave.

Next stop, BRUGES, BELGIUM. The type of city that is stunningly picturesque when you are actually there, but then quickly fades into that jumbled wasteland of blurred experience once you leave. Description to the folks: “Gee dad, what a great place! There was this neat clocktower, and a fun park, and a nunnery, and blah, blah, blah, blah etc., ad nauseum.” Thank you Beave.

Onward to GARMISCH, GERMANY. Incredible scenery, straight out of The Sound of Music. Actually, it was Hitler’s resort village. At any rate, make sure you time your arrival during the Christmas holidays. If you do follow this bit of advice, you too can wander around for eight hours stressing over a place to stay during the height of ski season. Igloo building is not an accommodation option.

MUNICH. The Hofbrauhaus or largest beer hall in Germany. Loads of tourists combined with large amounts of beer guarantee gastric problems. But, who cares? A huge party every night - we’ve all got to remember our priorities. As for the rest of Munich, I have no clue as I sort of skipped it.

DRESDEN, still in GERMANY. You will immediately be stimulated by colorful, post-commie architecture built in shades of grey, grey, and a brilliant grey. This place is also a smokers’ heaven. The smog eliminates the need for cigarettes. Important tip: avoid the water. In fact, avoid the milk too, as the cows drink the water. If your future career is with the EPA, avoid this whole city until about 2010.

LE HAVRE, FRANCE. Only good for a ferry to Ireland. Too bad I missed it, effectively wiping out any interest I might have had for this no-name faceless village with wrong ferry schedules. Well, that’s a wrap for this edition of Tips to Travel By. Stay tuned for my next update: “Stumbling through Spain.”

Some Straight Facts About The Draft

By Curt Bickers

Well, here is the article every Davidson man has been waiting for. Does the United States find the cost of freedom in our innocence? The draft is definitely an ominous presence many students have been talking about over the past few weeks. Now, more than ever, the thought of receiving a Western Union mailgram revealing my destiny is chilling. I hope through this article that I can dispel myths and clarify shades of gray on this pressing topic. I cite and thank the Selective Service System for providing the information for this article.

The probability of a draft is the most important issue to discuss. Neither the National Director of the Selective Service System, Congress, the White House, nor the Department of Defense has said a draft is even under consideration. The President has said a draft is not necessary. Congressional legislation and presidential approval are both required in order to activate a draft. The draft, it seems, takes a little bit more red tape to pass through than pressing “the button.”

Let us pretend that the red tape is snipped and the draft is passed. Mobilization procedures would follow. The Selective Service System would be responsible for supplying the manpower (the draft seems to be the only situation these days when the words “man” or “he” can be used without seeming sexist) through the induction process. One hundred thousand inductees are required by the end of the first 30 days of mobilization. Induction is the infamous lottery.

Continued on Page 13