10 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

The Incredible Ease Of Well-Being

Avoid Fat With These Facts
By Marlo Cobb

Fat is necessary in the body, in certain percentages (around 9-21 percent for men; 15-25 percent for women). Body fat is an insulator, and it cushions the internal organs. It is the body’s greatest source of stored energy, providing for the muscles after other energy sources are depleted. It helps absorb vitamins A, D, E, and K, and provides moisture to the skin. Going below ideal body fat percentages will cause hormonal imbalances, and for women, this means that the menstrual cycle will stop. People with too little body fat will feel generally hotter during the summer, and colder during the winter, and their hair and skin will be dry.

Too much fat in the body, however, causes deficiencies in the immune system, and increases the risk of hypertension, heart disease, and diabetes. So, why is fat so tempting? It is a flavor carrier in food. Fat adds richness and texture to food. This is a hard property to manufacture artificially. As one employee involved with the newly marketed fat substitute Simplesse says, “It’s good-tasting, but it’s just not good.”

The problem with fat is that too many Americans eat too much of it. No more than 30 percent of the calories we eat each day should come from fat, and this is a lot to ask because one cup of fat (shortening) can contain up to 17 times the calories of a cup of carbohydrates (like potatoes). Mostly what needs to be watched are saturated fats, that is, animal fats like butter, plus coconut oil and palm oil, all of which are solid at room temperature. (Unsaturated and monounsaturated fats include vegetable, olive, and peanut oil.) When you are trying to keep blood cholesterol levels down, it is more important to avoid saturated fats than dietary cholesterol itself. Any food item marked “No Cholesterol” may still be high in saturated fat, so read labels before you buy. A meal high in saturated fats will temporarily raise blood cholesterol levels. Metabolic rate is also raised slightly higher after a high-fat meal than after a high-carbohydrate meal.

After a diet, pounds of fat are regained three times faster than pounds of muscle, and muscle tissue at rest burns more calories than fat tissue does, so any regained fat essentially lowers the metabolism. Dietary fat is converted more readily into body fat than carbohydrates, and fat is not burned during the first 12 minutes (some say 20) of aerobic exercise; carbohydrates are what is being burned during that time. At least two separate studies show a positive correlation between the amount of saturated fat in a person’s diet, and how fat the person is (body fat percentage). The first places women tend to lose fat are the waist and thighs, then the buttocks and upper arms. The hardest body fat to lose for women is on the hips, shoulders, chest, and calves.

You may have heard of a way to figure your body fat percentage by using a calculation involving height and weight. I don’t recommend this; it doesn’t take into account that muscle tissue weighs 10 percent more than fat. Try the skinfold/caliper method instead. It’s pretty accurate when done by a professional.

On to a topic that may be of interest to those of you who are “stuffed up.” On the back of a bottle of Afrin nasal spray, it says, “Do not use this product for more than three days.” Using nose drops or nasal spray for more than three days causes a “rebound effect” which actually increases congestion. And if you have a sore throat, drinking either hot or cold liquids, gargling with warm salt water, and breathing in moist air will help. Try this: while running very hot water in the sink, lean over and breathe in the steam for a few minutes. Put a towel over your head to trap any escaping steam. Anesthetic sprays and drops temporarily numb a sore throat, but that’s all; they won’t kill cold germs. If you’ve already been stuffing

Continued on Page 13

Theatre Review: The Merchant Of Venice
By Kate Dunlop

The Merchant of Venice, a Shakespearean romantic comedy with the underlying theme of racism, opened last night in Hodson Hall. Under the direction of Dr. Joseph Gardner, the story of Portia (Keely Schneider), a young heiress, and her friends and foes unwound. In his will, Portia’s father stated that three caskets, one of gold, one of silver, and one of lead, were to be laid out for would-be suitors of his daughter to choose from. Only one of the caskets would be the right one, containing within it the blessing of Portia’s hand in marriage. While Portia and her maid and companion, Nerissa (Marya Howell), are testing eligible bachelors, high-powered merchant-gangsters are making deals in the city. Antonio (Ed Cunningham), a young businessman, borrows money from the bitter, yet successful Jew, Shylock (Guest artist, Graham Smith). The condition states that if Antonio does not pay the money back in time, he is bound to give Shylock a pound of his flesh. The two stories come together when Bassanio (Bryan Kirtley), Antonio’s best friend, chooses the casket which promises him Portia. Immediately after, he receives word that Antonio’s time is up and that he must deliver to the merciless Shylock. Adding to Shylock’s wrath is the flight of his daughter, Jessica (Allison Wright), who runs off with Lorenzo (Michael Crowley), a friend of Antonio and Bassanio. The denouement is brought about by Portia’s ingenious, and everyone lives happily ever after in the end. The sets and colorful 1940s-like costumes gave off a wonderful atmosphere of fun, romance, and everyone rolling in theaisles. The minute the Prince of Arragon, played by Frank Jernigan, walked on stage, I burst out laughing. He gave an extremely memorable performance as the “Anal-retentive French man.” Unfortunately, Bassanio, played by Bryan Kirtley, had absolutely no chemistry with Schneider’s Portia. Of course, every scene with Schneider shone, but the lack of connectedness between the couple was disappointing. When paralleled with Jessica and Lorenzo, played by Allison Wright and Michael Crowley, their love story faded into the background.

By Katie Reynolds

Now more than ever, student involvement and cooperation with recycling efforts are essential to ensure a successful transition to the institutionalization of recycling. Members of the Recycling Committee, including new committee coordinators, Sarah Sadowski and Bina Desai, faculty sponsor, Dr. Dan Boye, and service coordinator, Beth Duttera, are working with the physical plant to institutionalize Davidson’s recycling in the near future. This transition should provide much-needed relief to the all-volunteer recycling committee which has struggled to meet the demands of increasing campus-wide participation in recycling.

Despite such efforts towards advancement, the committee asks that students remain aware of the importance of their cooperation and consideration. Under the current system, student volunteers collect items from dorm hallways, the Union, and various locations picked up by volunteers and driven to the recycling shed off campus where all unsorted items must be sorted by hand. The sorted items are eventually driven to a collection site in Huntersville.

Recycling Needs Continued Support on Campus

The hand-sorting of these items is greatly facilitated by students who sort their recyclables, empty their containers, and refrain from placing garbage and other refuse in the recycling bins. The committee also asks that the bins be used for recycling only and be left in the hallways for others to use. Only with continued student involvement and awareness can a smooth transition from an all-volunteer committee to institutionalization be successful. More volunteers are always welcome, especially for sorting at the shed on Fridays between 2:00 and 4:00 pm. Those who wish to become more involved with this committee are urged to come to organizational meetings, Thursdays at 7:00 pm in the Morrison Room in the Union.

On Friday, March 8, the Recycling Committee is sponsoring a Carry-Your-Trash-For-A-Day event to encourage student and faculty environmental awareness. Interested participants can obtain bags on March 7 in the Union Pit. On Friday, participants are invited to bring their recyclables to the Union patio for a co-sponsored Recycling and SGA Weekend FAC with music, food, games, and prizes. The Recycling Committee appreciates all student, faculty, and staff support for this event.

The scene between these two was sheer delight. Rarely have I seen two actors cast so perfectly together. Individually, Wright and Crowley were two of the strongest actors in the production, but when they were together it was magic. Guest actor, Graham Smith’s contribution to the production was outstanding. Playing the complicated role of the unfortunate Shylock, he brought depth and intrigue. Keely Schneider as Portia gave an outstanding performance. Never missing a beat, her voice and articulation were beautiful. Giving an almost regal performance, she captivated my attention from the moment she walked on stage. Her attention to detail, down to every last gesture and expression, was magnificent. Her scenes with Nerissa and would-be suitors, The Princes of Morocco and Arragon, were hilarious. Michael C. Brooks as the arrogant, yet “cool” Prince of Morocco strutted about the stage dressed as a “Rap King,” and had the audience in the aisles.

Every seemingly light-hearted play took on troubling dimensions which forced the audience to look at the implications of racism. After his daughter, Jessica, runs away, Shylock rages and gives the famous “Hath not a Jew eyes?...” speech. Smith completely blew me away. The courtroom scene in which Portia, dressed as a man, tries to convince Shylock to spare Antonio, was one of the strongest scenes in the play. The tension, generated mainly by Smith, Schneider, and Cunningham, as Antonio, literally poured off the stage. Smith’s defeated exit was brilliant, and completely believable. As an audience member, I felt lucky to be watching him, so I can only imagine what working with him must have been like for the cast.

Other noteworthy performances included those of David Tweedie as Shylock’s cocky servant, Launcelot, and Miles Louria and Russ Felker as Stephano and Balthasar, Portia’s attendants. Tweedie was both adorable and strong in his role, receiving a lot of laughs from the audience for his energetic performance. Louria and Felker gave a new meaning to the old saying, “There is no such thing as a small role; there are only small actors.” Both of them were wonderful to watch, adding humorous touches to characterize their smaller roles.

Overall, the cast gave a good and highly enjoyable performance of one of Shakespeare’s classics. Although there was a lack of unity and connectedness amongst the cast as a whole, certain strong performances carried the play. I will forever be haunted by Portia’s strength, Shylock’s pitiful defeat, and the beauty of Jessica and Lorenzo’s love story.