8 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING - MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991

The Spanish added sugar to over 50 chocolate bars in their pang. Chocolate the beans. Later, in Holland, cocoa butter
was pressed out of the beans and alkali was added, making what is now called “Dutch chocolate”. The Swiss pressed
out the cocoa butter, mixed it back in with the cocoa powder (the remaining part of the bean), and added
dried milk. The first American chocolate as we know it was produced near Boston in 1765, and Baker’s Chocolate got
its start soon afterwards. In 1847, chocolate was put into a bar shape for the first time. At the Chicago
World’s Fair of 1893, one display featured a 38-foot structure made entirely of chocolate - 30,000 pounds of it. That
same year, Milton Hershey began a candy company in Pennsylvania.

Finance: Two relatively recent articles in Forbes and Fortune reveal how well Hershey is doing; Hershey’s is now a $2.2
billion company which controls nearly 45% of the U.S. chocolate market. Last year, Hershey’s expanded to include Cadbury. Candy consumption
in America is rising, and, currently, the price of the cacao bean is down. High prices and cachet don’t guarantee
the best-tasting chocolate. Consumer Reports rated Godiva (Belgian) and Neiman-Marcus (American) brands among the worst tasting, while Ghirardelli and Hershey
(both American), and Lindt (Swiss) were among the best, at a fraction of the cost. Hershey’s Special Dark rated low;
Cailler Cremant was judged the best of the dark chocolates.

Really good chocolate is made in small batches, without preservatives. Chocolate connoisseurs go for a more “homemade” chocolate, sold by
smaller enterprises. Harbor Sweets of Salem, MA as well as Green Mountain Chocolate Co. of Waterbury, VT were mentioned, as
was Angelina (226 rue de Rivoli, Paris) where a bar of chocolate is actually melted into every cup of hot
chocolate served.

The Aztecs associated their cocoa drink with divinity and power. Their god Quetzalcoatl was said to have brought chocolate down
from the Garden of Life to make Earth a better place, and life easier to live. My sentiments exactly. But
I wonder how Consumer Reports’ “sensory consultant” landed that job, and if they’re going to need another in the near
future?

Carousels and People: Former Davidson Professor Exhibits Art
By Bryan Bayles

Douglas Houchens’ paintings are alive. Wisps of charcoal and oil breathe across his canvases with the grace of flight. And
yet, as Bill Giduz states in the February/March issue of Lake Vue, these refinements were born out of many hours
of contemplative and often discouragingly difficult work. Houchens disguises these long hours of frustration by extracting from them images which
are, in the true sense of the word, beautiful. Fourteen of these images will be on display at the Christa
Faut Gallery on Main Street until April 19th.

Houchens grew up in Richmond, Virginia, and attended the Richmond Professional Institute (now Virginia Commonwealth University). In 1946, he joined
the Art Student’s League in New York City. Seven years later, he...became Davidson College’s first full-time art professor, retiring after
a 25-year career teaching students at Davidson (Herb Jackson among them). But, fortunately for us, he continues to paint. Houchen’s
previous show was a retrospective in 1986 at Salem College. During the four-year interval, he has created a series of
oil paintings inspired by carnival carousels. In compositions like Central Park Carousel with Mother and Child and Carousel with Clay,
Central Park, a frenzy of brushstrokes embody the crackling energy of the carnival, the dizzying rotation of the horses, and
the childlike joy of the music. The swim of colors is anchored by hints of the vertical poles to which
the horses are attached.

In addition to his carousel paintings, which form the bulk of this show, Houchens has added several portraits in various
media. Two portraits, Twin with Bustle, and Other Twin with Bustle, hang side by side. The thin lines of pencil
in the first composition give way to controlled, melancholic smudges in the latter, suggesting an augmenting air of relaxation and/or
fatigue. But it is in another pencil drawing of three nude figures that Houchens captures the spirit of sensuous beauty
in its fullest form. Appropriately entitled Versailles, the drawing has passages that recall the graceful arcs of Watteau and other
rococo artists of the 18th century.

At a time when many contemporary artists are exploring the depths of psychic struggle and nuclear-age anxiety, Houchens' work is
an unexpected breath of comfort. And in Davidson’s pre-spring break tension, the show is a much-needed source of inspiration.

Do You Think This Paper BITES? Then Do Something About It!! Join The Davidsonian Staff! Call Our Office at -2148.

Affordable Designer Tuxedo Rentals $49.99 Men's Money Clip Your Best Formal Wear

By Caroline Nelson

Each week The Davidsonian will spotlight several YSSC programs. This week the spotlight is on the Adult Literacy program, Recycling,
and Seigle Avenue.

The Davidson Adult Literacy program matches Davidson students with adults in the community who want to improve their reading and
writing skills. We train tutors in the Laubach method, a technique which has proven to be over 90 percent successful.
After being certified, tutors meet one-on-one with adult students for an hour every week. In the past, some people have
chosen to work with children, and this year, we have expanded the program to include tutoring in English as a
Second Language (ESL). Not only do we need people to tutor, but also we need help with recruiting adult students.
If you are interested, please call Beth Ford at -6546.

The Recycling program has been very busy, both collecting recyclable materials around campus and trying to raise student awareness. The
Union Cafe now recycles plastic bags, and office paper is being recycled in some halls and buildings. Institutionalization of recycling
has yet to take place, so many people are still needed to help with the weekly work on campus that
is currently being done by a small percentage of students. If you are interested, please call Sarah Sadowski at -6537
or -6012.

The purpose of the Seigle Avenue program is to provide an encouraging, Christian environment for the elementary-aged residents of an
inner-city government housing project. If you enjoy kids and would like to set a good example for the children at
Seigle Avenue, please join us. We leave from Baker Sports Complex parking lot at 5:15 every Wednesday evening. Dinner is
included—just bring a big heart! If you are interested, please call Russel Huffman at -6661 or Alice Spivey at -6464.
