Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991 13 Sports

but they are fun and harmless. The crowd left early to begin partying again, which makes me think that the
game’s real purpose is to nurse hangovers. I can’t really blame them though.

The game was sloppily played, featuring two missed extra points and an interception in an exciting, final touchdown in the
end zone. Those who did stay for the entire game were treated to

By Chris Hood

Davidson’s football squad erupted for 27 second-half points to come from behind and post a 33-17 Homecoming victory over Charleston
Southern Saturday. The win raised the Wildcats’ record to 3-4.

Before the game began, Davidson’s captains were announced. Nose guard Tony Perez, linebacker Erik Moledor, linebacker Martin McCann, offensive guard
Ashton Lloyd, and wide receiver-quarterback Matt Matheny received the honors.

Charleston Southern took an early lead when Maurice Gerald blocked a Drew Fassett punt and raced 13 yards for the
touchdown. Davidson’s misfortune continued after the ‘Cats reached the Buccaneers’ two-yard line at the end of the first stanza. Shane
Mills carried on first down to move the ‘Cats to the one-yard line. On second down, Richard Howell was sacked
at the nine. Chris Toney intercepted Howell’s third-down pass to thwart the drive.

The ‘Cats scored their first points

By Tom Price

The men’s soccer team managed two wins and a tie in three matches against Big South opponents this week. The
‘Cats played Winthrop last Sunday to a scoreless tie. On Wednesday night, they beat Charleston Southern 2-1 in an away
match. And in a homecoming game on Saturday night, the team scored late in the second half to top Coastal
Carolina 1-0. The week left the team with a 4-1-1 record in the Big South and a 7-8-2 record overall.

The scoreless Winthrop game was a frustrating one for the Wildcats. “This is a game we should have won,” said
junior Matt Spear.

By Chris Hood

“Enthusiasm, intensity, and fun.” These are the words Head Coach Bob McKillop used to describe the first week of practice
for the men’s basketball squad. “It seems kind of contradictory, but the players are very loose and very focused,” said
McKillop.

In attempting to pinpoint the ‘Cats encouraging week, McKillop pointed to the successful end of the 1990-1991 season. “The guys
have a quiet sense of confidence not just about basketball but a self-esteem that they feel about what they’re doing
for Davidson College,” said McKillop.

Since the ‘Cats first exhibition contest will not be played until November 9, McKillop is not yet concerned about starting
lineups, but he is pleased with the talent on

of the contest with ten seconds remaining in the half. Kelly Shirley pulled in a five-yard pass from Howell to
cap off an impressive 14-play, 64-yard drive. When Fassett’s extra point missed wide, the Bucs held a slim 7-6 halftime
advantage.

“Coach Fagg really exploded on us at halftime,” Howell said. “There was a lot of yelling and screaming.”

“We knew we were a better team, yet we couldn’t get the ball in the net.”

Clearly, Davidson was the better team. The Wildcats controlled the ball for the majority of the game and outshot the
opposition in both halves. After the game, Coach Charlie Slagle stressed to his team the importance of putting high pressure
on a less-talented team. Winthrop was content to play a defensive, conservative game and Slagle later told his team that
in such a situation they needed to make them play.

The Charleston Southern game provided the Wildcats with an opportunity

---To show their coach the team, "I have at least two capable players at every position," said McKillop. Although Davidson’s
future certainly looks promising, there is one disappointment. Freshman Franco Ferroni has been declared ineligible by the college, and a
ruling from the NCAA is pending. According to McKillop, Ferroni received money two years ago while playing for a club
team in his native Italy. At that point, Ferroni was unaware that he would end up at an American college
or university. Once Ferroni began to be recruited by American schools, he made certain not to accept any such rewards.
"He knew the NCAA rules and didn’t want to be in violation," said McKillop. Nevertheless, Davidson felt it necessary to
alert the NCAA of the situation. Now, the College is waiting for an NCAA eligibility committee to rule on Ferroni’s
status. McKillop is unsure when the committee will make its decision. "I hope the NCAA evaluates not just the letter
of the law, but statements about Franco’s personal life," said McKillop.

After quickly stopping Charleston Southern to open the second half, the ‘Cats went to work again. Shirley hauled in another
touchdown pass, this one a four-yarder from Howell. The ‘Cats two-point conversion attempt was unsuccessful, but Davidson was on top
for the first time in the contest. Charleston Southern marched back to score on a 32-yard touchdown reception by Gianni
Garrett.

Though the Bucs were up 14-12, the lead would be their last. Davidson scored on its third straight possession when
Howell found John Bodkin and completed a 31-yard attempt. Jebo Barnes caught a Howell pass on the two-point conversion play,
and the ‘Cats were up for good, 20-14. The Bucs’ next drive may have provided the turning point of the
match. Sean Smith gained 59 yards on a pass reception which put Charleston Southern inside the ‘Cats ten-yard line. Davidson’s
defense held off the charge and only surrendered a field goal, the Bucs’ final points of the day. Howell scampered
42 yards for the ‘Cats third score of the half to open the fourth quarter, giving Davidson a 27-17 bulge.
Six minutes later, Alden Smith intercepted Garrett at the Davidson 32 to stymie Charleston Southern. On the Bucs' next possession,
Linsey Mills picked off another Garrett pass to set up the ‘Cats.

Ben Hayes continued to emerge offensively with a first-half goal to give the Wildcats an early lead. The goal came
off of a corner kick and was assisted by Cliff Castelloe. Charleston Southern came back to tie the game on
a breakaway goal. The contest remained tied until the final minutes. At the 6-minute mark, junior Preston Yarborough scored off
a perfectly executed cross by Glenn Smith. The play was particularly pleasing because it had been practiced earlier in the
week. Smith brought the ball up along the left side towards the near post and then crossed the ball to
Yarborough directly in front of the goal.

The Chanticleers of Coastal Carolina are the defending Big South champions, having beaten Davidson in last year’s championship game, and
are considered one of the league’s stronger teams this season. This game was an important test for the ‘Cats and
helped establish them, along with Radford, as the “team to beat” in the conference. Hayes scored Davidson’s lone goal.
