THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

By Brian Jennings '91

As student solicitor, in the past year I have served on every honor council trial and investigated possible violations brought
to the Dean of Students office. Through this experience and through conversations with numerous people about the system, I have
come to the conclusion that something is severely wrong with Davidson’s “most cherished institution.” The structure of the honor council
needs to be changed to a more democratic form.

Throughout the campus, there is a negative viewpoint associated with the Honor Council and the system in general. Over the
past year, I have asked people from different groups around campus (fraternity and eating house members, independents, freshmen, and faculty)
about their impressions of the system. Wrongly, the council is often perceived as a group of conservative headhunters, waiting to
kick someone out of school. From this stems a negative attitude towards both the council and the system. However, most
of the people that I have talked with would not want to do away with the Honor Code; they just
feel that the way that it is set up is bogus - and they are right!

I see two reasons for this negative attitude. First, if people hear of a trial or of someone being kicked
out of school, they usually do not know the full story but only that of the defendant. The majority of
honor trials are closed, which is a decision made by the defendant. Everyone involved in the trial signs a confidentiality
statement saying that he/she will not discuss any of the proceedings outside of the court. The intent of a closed
trial is to protect the defendant; however, the end result is that the council is viewed as a secretive group
that does not want anyone to know what they are doing. Unfortunately, if the defendant is found guilty, he/she often
tells friends that he/she was screwed over by the council. Rumors get started, council members have pledged their honor not
to discuss cases and thus cannot defend themselves against false accusations, and people are left knowing only one side of
the story.

Second, the selection of council members hardly resembles the jury selection system of our state and federal courts. Imagine if
elections were held for local juries and these few people were to hear all cases? In this scenario, jury elections
would become very political and no doubt anytime someone was found guilty it would be blamed on those few people
elected to the jury. Although elections for council members are not very political, the vision of the council as an
exclusive group remains. The Honor Council consists of just three representatives from the sophomore class, six from the junior class,
and nine from the senior class. Why should we limit ourselves to such a select group to decide every case?
Why shouldn’t anyone who wants to participate in the system at least have the chance to do so?

After giving the situation much thought and looking into honor systems at other colleges, I think that the election of
council members should be eliminated and replaced with a self-selected jury. Those that wanted to participate in trials would have
the chance and those who do not want to would not have to be bothered. All students who sign up
in the Dean of Students office could be put into a jury pool. This new larger council would then select
the Chairperson and Secretary as the present council does. Also, as in the present system, the Chairperson would direct the
trials and the Secretary would select the jury, making sure that no eating house or friendship conflicts occurred between jurors
and the defendant.

The benefits of this more democratic system are numerous. Enlarging the council to a jury pool would give anyone the
possibility of serving on a trial if he/she wants. More students would have the feeling that they are a part
of the honor system as opposed to something that is enforced upon them. Also, students would think more about their
own honor since they would be making these decisions. The system is supposed to operate on the guidelines that precedent
is not to be followed in any trial. However, after a council member has served on numerous trials, I think
that it is difficult for that person to holistically approach a suspected violation as a separate situation, particularly if that
council member has served on related cases. Having a completely different jury for each trial would make each trial unique.
Also, for the most part, the Davidson community is ignorant of what goes on in a trial and how they
are run. Enlarging the council would educate more students on the operation of the system. The misconceptions of the council
would disappear after more students served on trials and were more closely involved with the system.

Some critics of a more democratic council feel that allowing anyone to serve on a trial would decrease the caliber
of decision-makers in the council and that enlarging the council would eliminate the confidentiality of trials. One of the college’s
attorneys told the council last fall that Davidson students are far more competent in court situations than the average person
called up for jury duty. If Davidson students have the intelligence to serve in our government’s courts, then why would
we be unable to serve in our own school’s judicial system?As confidentiality goes, why would any student who is not
on the council be less confidential than the present members? Anyway, these cries of incompetence and lack of faith in
the student body are mostly made by present council members afraid of losing their positions. Others say, if it’s not
broken then don’t fix it. Still, Davidson should not be afraid to re-evaluate its honor system and make changes which
would give more students a greater sense of connection with their own honor. The large number of students present at
an open trial last month makes me feel that there are a lot of people in the community who want
to participate in the system but are shut out by our elective. The long list of candidates in the Dean
of Students’ office for the upcoming election also points to this desire. Let us not be so irresponsible that we
let a few people make all of the decisions in honor trials. A self-selected jury pool would put the honor
system in the hands of more students, eliminate some of the negativeness associated with the current system, and bring more
students closer to their own sense of honor. We are all part of the honor system at Davidson and each
of us should have a say in its operation. I propose that the SGA hold a forum on student and
faculty opinion of the honor system and create a questionnaire for students to make suggestions for a better judicial system.

Brian Jennings is a senior economics major from Houston, TX.

Why Is Our Student Paper So Liberal?
By Liz Davidson '93

I saw a perspective in the union cafe the other day. He was reading a copy of the Davidsonian. I
knew he was a perspective because he was there with Mom and Dad who were touring the cafe as if
it were the Smithsonian. He was sitting in the corner of the cafe, with the Davidsonian, trying to cover his
face. On the chance that he is accepted to this institution and decides to attend, he doesn’t want anyone to
remember that he is the dork whose parents made a scene at the Union Cafe. Obviously, he hasn’t heard of
Parent’s Weekend.

Anyway, the point is; I was watching this kid read our paper. He looked like a pretty normal kid. Like
Joe Davidson, as Sara would say. He was wearing a flannel, jeans, duck boots. I could see him at PIKA,
KA, SAE, with a drink in his hand, enjoying his freshmanhood. He wasn’t the kind of guy Dad warned me
about, but as he put down his paper for a few moments and surveyed his surroundings, I could see he
wasn’t one who spent all his time studying either. He looked cocky, like the freshmen do first semester, and I
smiled. He was Joe Davidson, all right. I wondered what he thought of the school.

Then, all of a sudden, I got this panicky feeling. I wanted to run over and grab the paper from
him. What would perspective Joe Davidson think about Davidson if he read our paper? Well, he would wonder if there
was a place for him here. He would wonder if he could have a happy existence at this institution, being
the heterosexual, non-feminist, war supporter that he is. What if gays make him uncomfortable, feminists drive him crazy, and he
will be going to college on an ROTC scholarship? What if he actually likes President Bush? What if he only
dates girls who shave their legs? He’d probably read the Davidsonian and decide after a good thirty seconds that there
is no way in hell he will attend such a liberal institution.

What he would never get to see is that most of us are not as liberal as the Davidsonian writers.
Most of us are like him—Jane and Joe Davidson. We share his interests and beliefs. It is our paper that
refutes them. The Davidsonian misrepresents Davidson. We do have several opinion columns, but unless you’re a militant feminist/homosexual or a
liberal idealist with a mission to save the world, there is no column for you. Eighty percent of Davidson’s student
body have no voice in the Davidsonian.

I’ll probably never know what that kid thought as he and his eager parents drove home. If he’s here next
year, I’m sure I won’t recognize him; he looks like a hundred other guys here at Davidson. Maybe he would
have been an SGA senator, an athlete, union worker, the President of his class, a brother in a fraternity. I’ll
never know. There’s one thing I do know, though. He would have never written an editorial for the Davidsonian. The
paper would be the only place on this campus where he wouldn’t fit in.

Liz Davidson is a sophomore from Palos Verdes, CA.

Opinions: Read The Davidsonian, The South's Foremost College Weekly and say, "The world is a really big place, I mean,
look at how far away that tree is,” or "Old MacDonald had a farm," or "We should have let sanctions
work,” or "we should nuke everything that is evil and not like us," or "Look, J.C. Penney's is having a
sale," or "Jesus loves me this I know," or whatever, and write it down in a letter and send the
letter to The Davidsonian office and french fries and large Coke please and if you have any questions or comments
call David "Pundit" Scott at x6615. He wants to help you.
