THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

Liz Said, Dair Said...

Liz said...

A few facts about tanning and the sun in general from a Californian beach bum who has finally learned her lesson:

1) A sunburn does not look good. People say, “Look at that idiot who fried herself.” The color purple does not become human skin.

2) If you burn so badly that you:
- blister
- feel like every part of your body has an intense fever
- can’t sleep at night because you’re in so much pain
- illicit sympathy from everyone who sees you,
then DO NOT SUNBATHE. It takes one bad sunburn to get melanoma (a serious form of skin cancer) later in life. If you burn easily and have to spend time in the sun, use sunblock. For very fair people, the highest SPF is the best. You won’t get tan anyway and the sunblock will save you from a burn.

3) When you’re out in the sun and someone says, “You look like you’re getting burnt,” GET OUT OF THE SUN. At this point, you’re in trouble. Sunburns don’t usually appear until a couple of hours after you’ve finished tanning. If you are already getting burnt and you continue to sunbathe, the sun has probably infiltrated your brain as well.

I’m not even going to touch the outdoor sun issue. Instead, I’d like to address a little phenomenon I’ve taken a little heat over myself: the fake bake. The tanning bed has been with us for little more than a decade, so long-term effects can only be speculated about at this point. However, the medical community isn’t exactly waving banners about the short-term effects of the hot box. Today T-beds utilize light bulbs emitting UVA lights. These waves penetrate deeper into the tissues than the UVB light that causes burns. Salons stake their claims regarding a “safe tan” upon the fact that you won’t burn or peel. Meanwhile, the UVA rays are weakening your immune system. People on birth control or antibiotics such as tetracycline are in particular danger of this and burns from their time in the bed.

Also, contrary to popular belief, a tanning bed tan does not protect you from the sun. The type of tan that provides a protective layer against overexposure is derived from UVB exposure, not UVA exposure. However, if you do find yourself addicted to the scan tan, be aware of the most important danger: your eyes. Wear the goggles. Closing your eyes is not sufficient protection against the rays. Cataract formation in the eyes of those who utilize tanning beds is a significant danger, with results not showing up until perhaps a decade later; that’s cataracts at thirty. Also, if you are going to tan in the bed, don’t double up with outdoor exposure. A guy in Alabama went out in the sun for an hour or so after having gone to the tanning bed and suffered severe epidermal damage—the entire outer layer of his skin peeled off, threatening his life.

Since the tan is so much a part of what we view as a healthy, vital look, I don’t foresee our generation evolving to the point where we don’t desire one. To accommodate this craving, perhaps the best option these days is the bottle o’ tan. Unlike the tanning pills you ingest that dye your skin (and have been dubbed a possible carcinogen), tanning creams react with your skin to give the appearance of a tan by working with your melanin, not by dying the surface.

Estee Lauder has three different shades that will free you forever from sun-damage. But whatever route you decide to take, throw on some protection, get out to the lake campus, and enjoy these last lingering days of Indian summer while you can—the sun is still good for the psyche.

Dair said...

4) The parts of your body that do not normally get sun are more vulnerable to sun. Put extra lotion on these places.

5) Be sensible about tanning. Remember that too much sun can cause heat rash, blistering, sunburn, heat exhaustion, skin cancer, melanoma, dehydration. The summer before last, a girl in Arizona laid out so long in hundred-degree weather that she literally fried to death.

6) If you have any further questions or concerns, see a dermatologist. He or she can give you advice about tanning and skin care in general.