14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

Football

Continued from page 13

final score. Quarterback Kevin Holzworth raced for a 34-yard touchdown to make the score 33-17.

“We have been usually stalling in the second half, but today we did what we had to do,” Howell said.

Howell completed 16 of 31 passes for 206 yards and the three touchdowns. The ‘Cats gained 208 yards on the
ground, led by Mike Wright’s 66 and Howell’s 52. Though the ‘Cats produced a big Homecoming effort, fans and players
did not leave Richardson Stadium in as jovial a mood as one might expect. On the game’s final play, Moledor
was injured while attempting to make the tackle. He was on the field for several minutes before being driven away
in an ambulance, but he was back on campus by Saturday evening.

“Erik is fine,” Head Coach Dave Fagg said. “He has a sore neck and he’ll miss a game, though.”

Looking forward to the Parents’ Weekend matchup against Hampden-Sydney, Fagg hopes that the momentum from the Homecoming triumph will carry
over. “This was a great game for the Fighting Wildcats and we want to keep our spirit up.”

FORD’S

"Catering YOU Can Afford"

FORD’S SEAFOOD, BBQ & CATERING

"FAMILY OWNED & OPERATED"

Hwy. 21 South CORNELIUS N.C.

TELEPHONE Call (704) 892-3362

HOURS: LUNCH TUES.-FRI. 11AM-2PM

DINNER TUES.-SAT. 5PM-9PM

10% OFF WITH COUPON

Present with College Student or Faculty ID For 10% Off Your Next Meal at Ford's

Soccer

Continued from page 13

goal on a header with only seven minutes remaining in the contest. Hayes, the Big South player of the week,
was assisted by junior Phelps Sprinkle. Sprinkle received the ball from Andy Schwab after Schwab made a beautiful slide tackle
to gain possession. Sprinkle was forced wide to the left of the goal and drew the goalkeeper out of position
before making the cross to Hayes.

Davidson had several other excellent opportunities to score, especially in the second half. At the 22-minute mark of the second
half, Lance Long got off a strong shot, but was denied a goal on a great save by the Coastal
keeper. With 14 minutes left, Davidson received a penalty kick after junior Craig Omli was fouled inside the box. Sprinkle,
however, missed the penalty kick to the left of the goal.

Freshman goalkeeper Alex Deegan anchored the solid Davidson defense. As usual, fullbacks Castelloe and Omli, sweeper Ed Denning, and stopper
Spear also played well.

The Wildcats have now won 6 of their last 8 and have almost managed to get their record to .500.
This week the team travels to Furman for a mid-week game with the nationally ranked Paladins. Next Sunday, during Parents’
Weekend, the ‘Cats will face an even tougher test, as they host top five Wake Forest.

Home Athletic Events:

Oct. 28 - Nov. 4

Tuesday, Oct. 29: Volleyball v. Campbell 7:00 p.m.

Wednesday, Oct. 30: Women’s Soccer v. Radford 3:00.

Saturday, Nov. 2: Women’s Soccer v. Queens 11:00 a.m. Football v. Hampden-Sydney 1:30 p.m.

Sunday, Nov. 3: Men’s Soccer v. Wake Forest
