THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991 9

Davidson

Public Enemy Refuses to Mellow With Age: Apocalypse ‘91.
By Jay Ferguson

Let me begin by saying that I am not a music critic. What I am is a hard-core fan of rap, and more specifically, a long-time Public Enemy fan. I have watched them progress from an entertaining but run-of-the-mill b-boy crew on their first album, Yo! Bum Rush the Show, to a sophisticated, community-minded, politically aware group that represents the sentiments of a large segment of black American society on their latest release. Those of you who are looking for an objective critique of a controversial group may want to stop reading here.

I realize that by saying this I am showing support for the same group that almost disintegrated in 1989 in the face of charges of anti-Semitism. It is also the same group that has been accused of fostering race-hate in blacks against whites. On top of all that, there have been accusations from both inside and outside the black community that Public Enemy (henceforth to be referred to as “P.E.”) glorifies and promotes violent tendencies in its listeners. The fact that they take their name from a well-known 1931 gangster movie doesn’t necessarily help to assuage these feelings. Nevertheless, I think that P.E.’s message, though sometimes scathing and even excessive, contains many of the unspoken feelings of black people nationwide. After all, let’s face the uncomfortable facts -- being black in America can often result in feelings of anger, frustration, and resentment, even in 1991 (I’m speaking from personal experience here, know what I mean?). What P.E. says is what many blacks secretly feel, but are too polite or too afraid to verbalize.

I know, I’m supposed to be reviewing P.E.’s new album, Apocalypse ’91...The Enemy Strikes Black. I apologize for the sociopolitical tirade in the first few paragraphs, but I guess I had to get that stuff off of my chest. Anyway, on to the album. For those of you who thought maybe this group would mellow with age, I hate to be the one to break it to you, but you were wrong. Chuck (the m.c., i.e., lead singer), Flav (Chuck’s sidekick, providing comic relief), and the S1’s (a mock paramilitary group of fellas who are part of the crew) come off as hard as ever. Once again we hear the booming voice of Chuck D backed by cacophonous musical tracks as he...

See "Public Enemy" on page 11.

Bryan Bales On Painting

Davidson Arts presents the second essay in a series of articles examining artists at Davidson. How and why do artists work? We have asked several artists to comment upon the technical aspects of their work as well as their personal motivations. Last week's issue offered Ted Richardson’s insight into photography. This week senior Art History major Bryan Bayles discusses painting.

It is a joy to be the servant of the work. And it is a humbling and exciting thing to know that my work knows more than I do.
-Madeleine L’Engle

For me, art-making is a compulsion. I choose to want to create no more than I choose to want to sleep. The only conscious decision I have control over is whether or not I will heed the urge and struggle to give it form--make it visibly real. And for reasons I hope are motivated by love, I do. Whether through the act of painting, teaching, performing surgery, sweeping a building, etc., we are all given the opportunity to use process as a means of exploring our world with a critical mind and consequently resolving the many biological, spiritual, and cultural conflicts and anxieties that are a very real part of life. To do so requires one essential element: faith. Faith that the critical evaluation and exploration of emotional, socio-political, and visual constructs will lead to the discovery of some sort of Truth. I try each day to build my life around this faith. I believe that when I am creating art, I am in a sort of dialogue with Truth, small glimpses of which have been revealed to me in sparks of insight, smiles of the elderly, and rare bows of humility. It is only when I give myself wholly -- become a vessel -- for this Truth that something universal, a true resolution, can be created. Of course, such selflessness is never the case, and what results is a fascinating and endless store of imagery somewhere between me and Truth. And occasionally, when I am lucky, Truth’s visual form -- Beauty -- deigns to poke its head out from beneath my forms.

Use Your Illusion I & II: Guns 'N' Roses Stay on TopBy Chip Petree

Guns N' Roses. The words instantly conjure up images of long-haired, leather-wrapped, foul-mouthed hooligans lighting up the stage or your dorm’s lounge TV (or the living room for you seniors). Well, these guys are that bad and more. The Gunners are the hottest thing on the popular/hard rock music scene (although Metallica, with a truer heavy metal sound, has been Number One with an attitude), but much of this is still a result of the huge success of 1987’s debut LP, Appetite for Destruction, and 1988’s "effort," Lies. Since then, the group has seen lead howler W. Axl Rose go into rehab, guitarist Slash and bassist Duff “Rose” McKagan say the F-word on national TV, ex-drummer Steven Adler get the boot for drug abuse (can you say hypocritical?), and the addition of drummer Matt Sorum (formerly of the Cult) and percussionist/pianist Dizzy Reed. After all of these changes, the boys return with their most creative offering(s) to date. Since the band had the gall to...

See "Guns N' Roses" on page 11

Matt Bumstead: Whistlin' Dixie | Country Trivia Challenge

Well, I had an inspiring creation in mind for this week’s issue, but work has piled up to such a degree that I had to put off writing until later. For this week, I decided it might be fun to give you some random trivia questions to test your knowledge of country, or at least fill you in on some interesting facts.

1. Name the singer who grew up in places like Princeton and Japan and who attended Brown and lives in Washington, D.C.
2. What was Randy Travis’ job when he was discovered in Nashville?
3. Name the female who is marrying the bus driver of another famous star.
4. (Oh, heck, why don’t you just go on and name him, too. He was 1990’s CMA Male Vocalist of the Year.)
5. While you’re at it, name her late husband, who died nearly three years ago in an alcohol overdose.
6. Name the male artist who was asked to join Dire Straits. He was also part of Pure Prairie League, the group that sang “Amie,” and was the 1991 Male Vocalist of the Year.
7. What country music legend, famous for songs like “Sixteen Tons,” died on Friday, October 17, 1991?
8. Name the country legend, still recording today, who lost the coin toss that Ritchie Valens won for the last seat on the plane with Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper. He was Holly’s bass player.
9. What was the title of the Holly Dunn song that she and Warner Brothers eventually removed from the radio because of accusations that it could be construed as an incitement toward date rape?
10. What female vocalist had a high G.P.A. working toward her engineering degree when she dropped out and became a country star?
11. Name the executive editor of The Davidsonian who’s cute as a button? Relevance? He likes country music.
12. Name the celebrity husband and wife who have reportedly split up. He wrote “Elvira” and set the record for number one songs on one album at five, breaking her record of four. She is the daughter of “The Man in Black.”
13. Who is “The Man in Black”?
14. How long did the career of Hank Williams last?
15. Name the only female in history to have her debut single hit number one. No, it’s not Dolly Parton.
16. What are Dolly Parton’s measurements? (I was just wondering - I don’t know either.)
17. Name the artist who, in trouble with the I.R.S., hurriedly released The I.R.S. Tapes in an effort to raise money.
18. What is the name of the longest-running live radio broadcast in the world (it debuted in 1925)?
19. Who sang “Hey, Good Lookin’”?
20. Name the blind pianist who has had 37 number one songs including “What a Difference You’ve Made in My Life.”
21. Whose first trip to Nashville lasted less than 24 hours? Who was turned down by Capitol Records when he auditioned in an un-air-conditioned office, only to be seen performing in a club later that evening and called back in for another audition.
22. Name the singer who rode his riding mower for miles, all the way through downtown Nashville, to get to a bar - because his wife had hidden his car keys and made him promise he would stay home that night. He sang “He Stopped Loving Her Today,” the only song ever to win the same award two years in a row.

See page 11 for the answers to these mind-boggling little queries.