6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

Too Many Visiting Assistants Diminish Teaching Quality and Hurt Davidson

By David Smyth

Those of you perusing the Opinions section of The Davidsonian last week had the opportunity to read some of the
most unenlightened sentiments ever tendered in these pages. We asked five students—Nelson Neale, Sarah Beth Grant, Billy Smith, Robert Coggins,
and Laura Cunningham—their thoughts on the prodigious number of visiting assistant professors Davidson now finds itself employing. Of the five,
only Cunningham exhibited clear thought in their responses. Let us all cringe but take another look at some of what
these students had to say:

Coggins opined: “Davidson’s ability to bring in quality visiting professors leads to a positive impact on our education. We are
lucky to have various experts—with varying perspectives—willing to share their knowledge with us.” Well, Mr. Coggins, if we’re paying them,
I certainly hope they would condescend to sharing their knowledge with us cretins, but that is beside the point. To
correct your misled statement, it is Davidson’s ability to attract outstanding tenured professors that improves our education, not fly-by-night visitors.

Grant noted that Davidson is slowly overcoming a regional reputation, and that visiting professors are going to be the ones
that lead us to the promised land. If we are as provincial as Miss Grant insists (and I am not
for one minute saying that we are), then how in the hell are our temporary instructors going to revive the
image? By wowing the academic world with their particular insights that only a visiting twenty-five-year-old teacher can give? It hasn’t
happened yet, at least not here.

Smith and Neale pointed out that “new ideas are great for an academic community” and that “it has a positive
effect on education.” That’s wonderful, but there again, these are not ideas that our students will not glean from themselves
or from our well-qualified tenure-track professors!

Cunningham was the only one to proffer a well-considered response to the question. Since she is the single oasis in
this desert of naivety, I would like to reprint her comments in total here: “Visiting professors have a hard time
fitting in at Davidson. They are usually unfamiliar with the academic stipulations of the honor code, including self-scheduled exams and
take-home tests. Because they are only temporary members in their departments, the visiting professors cannot establish the lasting rapport characteristic
of student-faculty relationships.” Hear, hear.

According to this year’s course catalogue, fifteen of the eighteen faculty appointments are visiting professors. I propose that this is
dangerous for Davidson College for several reasons. The first, and the most obvious, is that many of these teachers are
very young and inexperienced in the ways of handling the pressures of teaching at a college the caliber of Davidson.
I do not think I am being presumptuous when I say that there should be a certain amount of dues-paying
for someone to be allowed to teach here. Davidson students certainly had to work very hard in high school to
gain admission; the same logic should apply to

Depth! Relevance! On Davidson: A Prospectus, With Uplifting Notes for the Reader

Being lately inundated, and taking no small pleasure in the perusal, with the fictional works of 18th century British writers,
the present author, in humble tribute to such late esteemed scribes, will be grateful in the contribution of a brief
chapter, (the heading of which will inform the careful reader should any occurrences be forthcoming in said chapter), for the
purpose of the education, moral uplift, and virtuous pleasure, mindful of the not unprofligate use of commas in deference to
style, of the youthful folk in this our Degenerate Age.

On the self-determinative quest of the Dork. Further hints to the itinerant concerning the sights and sounds of Davidson College,
and a note in conclusion on visual propaganda with moral rejoinder,

The following questions should help certify the reader's existence as a Dork, or, to avoid all pretense of personal invective,
help determine said reader’s tendency toward dorkiness (for readers fascinated by euphemisms, this usually isn’t hard):

Answer: Yes/No.

Did you, reader, not notice the tongues of the perpetrators during last week’s protestations against that precious trinket of Americana,
Fantasia, lodged firmly in the aforementioned cheeks? -- Dork.

Do you bear the weight of loudly thonking headphones in a basement carrel of the library while flipping through a
large hard-back tome? -- Perhaps college is not for you.

Are you a freshman? -- Rhetorical question (look it up).

Did you feel let down when the Coup failed? -- For shame.

Do you now prevent one of the seats from taking flight in the halls of the Student Government Association? --
At one time, positive reassurances concerning this question entailed instant Dork status. An acquaintance of mine, however, recently gained the
upper hand on one of these seats. He insists that without such martyrs as himself, none of us would have
a Governmental Association for Students, and gloats in a victory that the present author considers but pyrrhic. The dorkiate efficacy
of this question, therefore, remains, in the words of some ancients, a toss-up.

Do you feel enticing when drunk? -- Please leave your phone # in the Opinions box.

Do you like museums? -- Dork with a capital “D.” That spells, Dork.professors. Second, and this is closely related to
the first, often visiting professors are working on their own dissertations while teaching introductory classes. Or worse, they do not
have doctoral theses to finish at all. I did not come here to be taught by graduate students, and I
doubt that anyone else did, either. What is going to happen when a visiting professor refuses help for a student’s
project because of work that needs to be done on his own doctoral work? Davidson is not a research institution!
We are a liberal arts college! Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas!

Visiting professors are inherently temporary, and this brings up my third point. At best, this merely affects the student-faculty relationships
that we are so proud of here. Your favorite teacher and budding mentor from History 120 is gone by your
junior year. Oh, forget it; you didn’t need that graduate school recommendation, anyway. At worst, their course descriptions can seriously
disrupt planning in particular majors when regular professors return. What happens when the visitor’s Abnormal Psychology class hardly resembles the
regular teacher's? The students do not know what they’re getting and suffer as a result.

My point in writing this piece is not to belittle or otherwise hurt the feelings of any of our visiting
professors. I am sure they are fine people. I am also sure that most of them could make superb Davidson
professors someday. The problem is that they are stopgaps for an errant policy that forces many of our distinguished teachers
to make names for themselves in the name of scholarship. While these regulars are off keeping their jobs, life here
goes on. Courses must be taught, and the second string has to be put in. That is bad for you,
bad for me, and bad for Davidson.

Are you an Upper Class patron of the Commons? -- You worm. Do you not feel requisitioned by the gods
when the Braves lose? David Scott -- Away Paragon of Dorkhood, Did the reader finally address the necessity of a
mountain bike when the reader tired of going around steps? -- D---, take it from here. Finally, do you, reader,
utilize only one of the equally functional straps of your Jansport? -- All bow to the Monarch of Dorkdom.

Davidson sights and sounds, information being related by the Davidson Depth!, Relevance! Society for the benefit of readers and prospective
Davidson itinerants. Bricks, dear reader and prospectives, may be viewed at all hours throughout the scenic Davidson campus. Trees may
also be viewed and preferably hauled back by the viewer to his or her point of origin. The Davidson Experience
may also be brightened by a brilliant display of wholesome collegiate pep on a balmy autumn afternoon after only a
two-hour journey east from our convenient, centralized location. Important books may sometimes be obtained in the Library and inexplicable things
are usually on display in the glass cases of the Union Conference Room. Those interested in viewing a room full
of buck-naked and wet college professors may report to Baker at 12:00 PM sharp most weekdays. To discover CHAL, ditto.

At Davidson, Students study hard and Students play hard. Energetic utilization of the College’s many-faceted facilities leads to a complete
undergraduate experience and becomes a spark to ignite the process of personal growth which continues for a lifetime.

As Kinner continued from page 4 and all Women’s Study majors take note: Roe v. Wade will soon be history.
Ahh, let’s see. Who hasn’t been offended yet? Here’s a good one; I saw a bumper sticker yesterday that neatly
sums up my feelings on animal rights. Let’s share it, shall we? “I Love Animals! They’re Delicious! Eat Them Three
Times a Day. Mmm mmm good. Call 1-800-Carnivore.” Isn’t that special? What? You’re aghast? It isn’t PC? I would be
willing to bet that a good deal more of you agree with that bumper sticker than with those wonderful folks
that take it upon themselves to scream obscenities and throw blood on little old ladies foolish enough to wear fur
coats on the streets of Manhattan. But that’s another column. So long for now. I have to go to work
in the morning. P.S. Ain’t it great to be a conservative in this goofy land of ours?

A present Senior related, “I came here because I wanted a small liberal arts college where the teachers would care
about teaching and, specifically, me. Now I’m about to graduate and I’m completely terrified.”

Enlightened readers must recognize the value of propaganda (newspapers, visible stuff, etc.) as well as its dangers. Enlightened readers, recognize
this: (from a flyer in Baker, relayed to the Depth! Relevance! Society) SBE 3 eo wa cecal W/ WORKING ON
1! (underlined thrice) WE WANT TO! (underlined thrice) WE CAN! WE WILL! (underlined thrice) MAKE IT HAPPEN!!!! PRIDE!! (underlined four
times) FAMILY!! (underlined twice) “R.A. - R.A!!!” (underlined twice).

Friends, readers, the present author is confused. Yes, we note, both the “R” and the “A” were followed by periods,
which may imply some connection with dormitory maintenance. “PRIDE,” however, being the most vehemently underscored, must play some central role.
PRIDE? Only six deadly sins to go? R.A. - R.A.? Clean dorms just are not that big, dear readers, a
deal. Sirrah.
