10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

Dangerous

Michael Jackson's latest release fulfills the media-stoked expectations of popular music fans

Continued from page 9

the listener in a wasteland of computer-generated percussion. And when you flip it back over to side one, the opener
“Jam” doesn’t even attempt a recovery. The best moments come when Michael abandons the drums to reveal nice melodies and
a strong vocal talent. “Remember the Time” is long on melody, short on voice, while “Will You Be There” shows
both. And this song’s use of choir arrangements shows Michael’s willingness to innovate. Unfortunately, though, he also conforms a lot,
as with the little raps placed throughout the record. Mediocre rappers with superfluous words only detract from the effort.

The music may account for the album’s success, then, but there are other factors at work as well. In their
effort to ensure mammoth sales, Jackson’s record company hired Norm from “Cheers” (George Wendt), that Home Alone kid, and Bart
Simpson to appear in the video for “Black or White”, which debuted simultaneously on three networks -- MTV, BET, and
Fox. Of course, the big unveiling had to occur right after Fox’s biggest show “The Simpsons”, and MTV could only
participate in the process if it would present a Michael Jackson Week leading up to it. That’s a lot of
hype.

According to rumors, though, the PR people did not stop there. The video uses a computer technique to blend faces
that pushed its cost over four million dollars. Yes, four million dollars. And MTV had more instructions -- their veejays
had to refer to Jackson as the King of Pop whenever they talked about him on the air. I guess
we videoheads needed a subtle reminder every now and then of just how big this guy really is. That’s almost
subliminal advertising, isn’t it?

Dangerous has sold a lot of copies so far, and maybe this effort is the reason. There has been a
lot of good talk about it, some of it true and some contrived. Go ahead and believe the hype, though,
because as a pop album Dangerous delivers.

How American Express helps you cover more territory, for less money —

Become a Student Cardmember today and get 3 roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each.

Only the American Express® Card offers an exciting travel program exclusively for students—including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. And
much, much more.

Just look at the map and pick the place you’d like to visit. If it’s on your side of the
Mississippi River, you can use a certificate to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the Mississippi for
$189 roundtrip.

You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime—because
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And
the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.

By becoming a Student Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other benefits from the American Express® Student Privileges™ Program. Such as up
to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month for an entire year—absolutely free. And that’s just one example of
how the Card can help you save.

For just $55 a year, the Card gives you all these savings. And it's easy to apply. Just call us
(have your bank address and account number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it’s easier to get
the Card now while you’re still in school than it may ever be again.

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX

If you're already a Cardmember, there’s no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.

So get the Card. And get ready to cover new territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.

*Minneapolis/St. Paul, St. Louis and New Orleans are considered cities east of the Mississippi River.

**A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. $3.70
is equal to the charges for a 10-minute night/weekend Nati Card compatibility call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for
this service by December 31, 1991.

Membership Its Privileges®

Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment
of this offer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines’ performance. © 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company,
Inc.
