Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

Coach Bob McKillop Promotes Experienced Squad

By Chris Hood

Optimism runs rampant among Davidson basketball faithful as the 1991-92 season approaches. With four returning starters, experienced reserves, and a talented freshman class, the Wildcats appear prepared to tackle a challenging schedule. Davidson is regarded as one of the top teams in the Big South Conference, and a post-season tournament bid is a definite possibility. In this interview with the Davidsonian, third-year coach Bob McKillop shares his expectations for the season, Davidson’s opponents, the Big South’s automatic bid in the NCAA Tournament, and the future of Wildcat basketball.

Davidsonian: Many of the prognosticators who expected Davidson to finish near the bottom of the conference last year are predicting the ‘Cats to be near the top of the Big South this season. What is your explanation for this quick turnaround?

McKillop: Undoubtedly the experience factor, because the freshmen that played such a vital part of our team last year are now a year older.

Davidsonian: Are you concerned about a ‘sophomore jinx’ influencing the team?

McKillop: Our concentration is not so much on talk about a ‘sophomore jinx’ influencing the team as much as a sense of the team influencing in the concept of ‘we are in this together’. We use the canoe theory: we are all in a canoe, we all have a paddle, and we all have an obligation, a responsibility, and a desire to paddle in the right direction.

Davidsonian: You have brought in another good recruiting class this season. How will this year’s freshmen fit into your mold?

McKillop: Franco [Ferroni], George [Spain], and Frank [Harris] came in here knowing they could make contributions as freshmen. George has been particularly impressive in pre-season scrimmages. He has shown us a toughness and an aggressive nature we didn’t see very frequently last year. The athletic skills he has are what we recruited him for; his toughness adds one more number to our list of three-point shooters plus a good size at 6-8 to play inside. The three of them give us a great deal of versatility and ingredients that we definitely need.

Davidsonian: How will you account for the loss of forward James Marsh?

McKillop: Marsh was perhaps our quickest and best front-court defender. He was tough, aggressive, and experienced. If he came back, he would still be challenged for playing time this year by Franco, by the maturity of Paul.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure and punctuation while correcting OCR errors.Drobnitch, by the maturity of J.D. Heuer, by the recovery to health of Scott Alford and Ron Horton, and by the addition of George. There would be where chemistry started to evolve; players started to understand and recognize their roles, and we started to play as a team. Much of that has served as a springboard for us this year. Detlef Musch stands out as a center who could potentially dominate the position in league play, and we have seasoned veterans returning. 

Davidsonian: Last year, the ‘Cats relied heavily on a strong freshman class. What precautions have you taken with these players to avoid a...

Frank has street-smart city instincts, and he gives us more than adequate assistance at the point guard spot and more than adequate versatility; he can play any number of spots in the backcourt.

STUDENTS & FACULTY:

Davidsonian: Who do you expect will be in the starting lineup this season?

McKillop: We haven’t gotten that far, but I would be very clear that the point guard and center are intact. Detlef and Pat will undoubtedly be occupying the front end.

Present your Davidson ID & Receive 10% Off!!!

LAKE LUBE
19000 Statesville Road/Hwy. 21
(704) 892-9834
Cornelius, N.C. 28031
Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sat. 9 a.m.-5 p.m.
SERVING ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE AND MARINE LUBRICATION NEEDS
We service boats, domestic, imports, and exotic cars.

It’s a three-month or four-month long process for which we’re preparing for ultimate participation in the NCAA Tournament. The experience and exposure we’re getting from playing Alabama, Wake Forest, and N.C. State are experiences which will help us as we move in the direction of conference play and hopefully in the direction of a chance to play in the NCAA Tournament. You’re only going to be able to gauge how good you are by playing consistently against good teams, and we’ll get that experience right from the get-go when we play Alabama.

Davidsonian: You received criticism for not starting Darry Strickland and Turner Gilmore on Senior Night at the end of last season. How do you respond to these judgments?

McKillop: In the aftermath of the experience, I contacted a number of people on campus who personally called me or wrote to me to express their disappointment at my decision not to start them. My first task upon clearly getting that message was to talk to Darry and Turner themselves and to let them know that if I did make a mistake, I apologize for it. I did not realize that it had such a big impact upon them. I apologized to them because it did obviously have an impact, and that was reflected in the support.

See "McKillop Interview" on page 12

Cornelius