THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991

Birkenstock Gorbachev Loses Credibility in Lithuania

Editor's Note: The Davidsonian apologizes to Mr. Kinner and McLaughlin for not printing their article last week. This was due to the failure of the staff to locate it.

Apparently, Mikhail Gorbachev (Russian for Fink) thought he could pull a fast one, jettison all his moderate and reform-minded associates, and reign in that pesky democracy movement before the USSR (loosely translated “Society that makes Iraq look good”) disintegrates. Winston Churchill told FDR that he refused to be forever known as the prime minister that presided over the dismemberment of the British empire. Gorbachev is probably from the same school of thought, though certainly from a different age. Stalin managed, through terrible purges and buckets of blood, to achieve the seemingly impossible. He forcibly joined ethnically heterogeneous nations under one giant red umbrella of fear and intimidation. The methods were deplorable, but Gorbachev probably thinks that the end result is worth keeping, no matter its origin. And maybe it is. The rise of “democracy” in such places as Azerbaijan and the Ukraine has resulted in violent and rabid anti-Semitism coupled with a particularly virulent form of Czarist nationalism. If the “peace-loving” people of Azerbaijan really want to kill their Armenian brothers in a separatist bid for autonomy, maybe Gorbachev is right to insist on order. And maybe the Chinese leadership was right to quell the peaceful demonstrators in Tiananmen Square. Perhaps the repression of a few students was preferable to a country whose population exceeds a billion tearing itself apart over some abstract principle that most of the peasants were too ignorant to understand. After all, many Russians now say they would prefer a stronger central authority than the chaos they are currently experiencing. The problem with such specious reasoning is that it generally tends to justify the subordination of people to a power structure for the sake of the powerful human need for security (Mao called it “order”). This is precisely the tyranny that brought Russia to its current economic condition. Perhaps, then, revolution is indeed the answer. Revolutions are rarely simple. Americans are rather a spoiled lot, considering the relatively bloodless way in which England cut us off from the great “sphere of influence.” Everybody out there, think. What was good about the French Revolution? Democracy, freedom, and getting rid of that bitch Antoinette. And yet, at the same time, the reign of terror killed many thousands of “citizens” who succumbed to the guillotine for the sake of “democracy.” Peaceful change is the most desirable but also the least likely given Gorbachev’s commitment to Stalinism. The dilemma, surely, is you can’t win the Nobel Peace Prize and then start killing people in Lithuanian and Latvia. It would appear that a bloody revolution is therefore imminent. However, there is an alternative. Boris Yeltsin has always been the odd man out in American foreign policy. Pretty common compared to the likes of George Bush and Edvard Shevardnadze. Yet his popular appeal (something Gorbachev lacks) is coupled with a Americans are historically reluctant to change horses in midstream, but it's possible that by continuing to support Gorbachev, we're backing the wrong horse. Whether Gorbachev can hold his Robespierres in check until the economy provides a financial base in which political reform can take place. At least, that’s what the political pundits seem to think (boy, they were right about Iraq, weren’t they?) It’s also possible that Gorbachev has progressed as far as he is genetically able. He is, was, and always will be a party man. His consolidation of power in the presidency, although portrayed as a reform, is a sign of his true nature.

— Kyle J. Kinner
Seth J. McLaughlin

How could we not respond to the scurrilous and unfounded attacks leveled at us by the columnist across the page (whose name, D. A. Thompson, we will not stoop to mention) when our intellectual foundations have been so rudely assaulted? We’ll tell you why not: because anything we say could potentially damage a pending libel action we may or may not be filing at some indiscriminate point in the future. In fact, if we were to say that we thought Dave (not his real name) was pretty funny, it might even damage whatever cash settlement we might be able to squeeze out of the Davidsonian, also in the future. So we won’t. But we could. Anyway, destroying another person is not our mission for today. Take a moment away from your round-the-clock Peter Jennings watch and turn to page 54B of today’s Charlotte Observer. That’s right, below the recipes and to the left of the obituaries. A little story entitled “The Peaceful Russian Army quells angry, sign-carrying Lithuanian Extremists.” A long title, to be sure (alright, we made it up) but it accurately describes the American people’s perceptions, or lack thereof, of events in the Baltic states (Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia, for those of you who got a four on your freshman geography test).a positive necessity for democratization, could also be used for tyranny. You think? The Bible says something about not judging a man by his words, but by his deeds. Yes, Gorbachev initiated reform. But he also stormed Vilnius to suppress the very democratization for which he received a Nobel Prize. Senator Robert Dole (R. Kansas) put it succinctly: “We understand Mr. Gorbachev’s dilemma, but you can’t have it both ways.”

Gorbachev had a vision of an autonomous (i.e., de-Unionized) Soviet Union that would allow the various republics to join economically as trading partners, and think about political re-union later. We should at least send him a couple of State Department guys to help him with the paperwork of dissolving the Soviet Union. Something is happening to the Soviet Union; its dissolution so far should have taught us the lesson that we have an interest in “the new world order” in Eastern Europe. Americans are historically reluctant to change horses in midstream, but it's possible that by continuing to support Gorbachev, we’re backing the wrong horse. Remember, revolutions by definition are a violent repudiation of the old political order, with the emphasis on violence. Change will come, whether we like it or not. By refusing to help Yeltsin now, we may not get a ride at all.

The Dynamic Vision Of Representative Barbara Jordan: Partnership Of Citizen, Community, and Nation

About six years ago I sat slouched in a chair at my private high school’s auditorium in Houston, Texas. It was a Wednesday afternoon and I didn’t want to be there. The other three hundred students were of backgrounds similar to my own: the children of doctors, lawyers, and businesspersons. My feelings were not in the minority either. I wanted to leave the auditorium so that I could go and ‘hang out’ for the remainder of the afternoon. After having waited only several minutes, I was convinced that we were being philanthropic simply to listen to whoever the speaker was. Although I was not aware of it at the time, the speaker was to have a profound impact upon my future.

Soon our anxieties were alleviated as the surprise speaker arrived. The face, though unfamiliar to me, was that of Barbara Jordan, the famous politician from Austin who had been quite active with Ross Perot in promoting higher education standards at both the state and the national levels. Ms. Jordan had been a Democrat Representative from Texas who, on the floor of the House of Representatives in 1973, was critical in swaying Congressional opinion regarding the Watergate Affair. She teaches at the L.B.J. School of Public Policy at the University of Texas.

The United States has lacked one fundamental element... one difficulty with the nation as a whole is that we lack the feel of a community. Although I was not aware of it at the time, the speaker was to have a profound impact upon my future. Soon our anxieties were alleviated as the surprise speaker arrived. The face, though unfamiliar to me, was that of Barbara Jordan, the famous politician from Austin who had been quite active with Ross Perot in promoting higher education standards at both the state and the national levels. Ms. Jordan had been a Democrat Representative from Texas who, on the floor of the House of Representatives in 1973, was critical in swaying Congressional opinion regarding the Watergate Affair. She teaches at the L.B.J. School of Public Policy at the University of Texas.

Jordan had not accepted speaking invitations for quite a long time but there was a reason why she had come to our school. The children who slouch in their chairs as they watch speakers eventually grow into leaders from all sectors of our community. The reason that Barbara Jordan came to the Kinkaid School was because its doors had been closed to her years ago as an African American child from a disadvantaged part of Houston. It was an honor for all to have her in our school. She uses a wheelchair and our headmaster, usually a jovial man, was quite somber as he pushed her chair towards the podium. She came with a powerful message for both myself as a listener and to my peer group as a whole.

A WORLD, A NATION, A COMMUNITY—none of the above self-perpetuate. It is the responsibility of the society, particularly those who benefit most from its structures, to continuously work and strive towards a ‘higher goal’ so that the society not only survives and continues to function, but also continues to improve the lives of all of its members. The woman before us had dedicated her life to the service of the society and of the nation so that the environment would change, so that poor African American children were not barred from any institution or opportunity, so that we, as a nation, continued to experience the reality of dynamic, positive change. It is with that spirit that she continues to teach and to encourage others, especially our nation’s young, to do the same.

Based upon Jordan’s lead, we can explore how her message relates to our own political situation. Our environment was founded upon fundamental laws. The vigilance of those laws cannot deteriorate if our nation and its governmental entity are to survive as the credible representation of our democratic union. If the desire to work towards an improved society for all does not also extend into both the middle and upper classes of America, our ‘experiment’ of a nation is bound to rot at the core and become a hindrance rather than a luxury. We have read Rousseau, Locke, Hobbes, and even Machiavelli in order to understand modern western political structures. These works were controversial at the time and continue to be hotly debated.

Continued on Page 9