THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

Support Troops, Oppose Order to War
By James Pittard '87

U.S. troops are patriotically and skillfully following orders in the Gulf. We must personally support them in whatever way we can and honor the sacrifices they make on behalf of our country. It is President Bush’s responsibility to ensure the historical meaning of the troops’ sacrifices. Their sacrifices will be great. When the President gave the orders to wage war, he knew U.S. troop casualties were estimated as high as 45,000 - 125,000 and that physical and psychological disabilities resulting from the war could be in the range of 300,000. The President knew that V.A. health care is not adequate for the veterans of previous wars, and that there will be little money with which to care for the veterans of this one. President Bush knew that the war would add at least $80,000,000,000 directly to the already huge federal deficit. He knew that the veterans could return to a failed economy which would not support the lifelong education, rehabilitation, and job preference benefits which they deserve. The sacrifice, he said, was necessary.

Yet at no point has the President given a satisfactory explanation for going to war, and the troops’ morale suffers accordingly. The resolution authorizing the President to go to war included only 53% of the Senate. The Senate and much of the country have united behind the troops now that the war has begun, but the issues that created the debate will not go away. The troops must force themselves to trust the President in order to faithfully continue in their duty, but they will have their doubts -- now, when they return, or in their dying thoughts. We cannot look to censorship to control the thoughts of the troops. At no point has the President given a satisfactory explanation for going to war, and the troops' morale suffers accordingly.

They are many of the best and brightest that our society produces. In manipulating the media, moreover, our government robs the servicepeople of a real history of the war. Nor can we blame those who protest Bush’s order to war for low morale among the troops. Peace demonstrators have given support to the troops from the beginning, and they continue to do so. Many demonstrators are family of servicemen and women. In many cases, they act as a voice for soldiers who have been threatened by their commanders for saying what they know to be true. Those protesting Bush’s war offer relief to servicemen and women who are beginning to doubt their own sanity amid censored information and the stress of war. They offer the hope of an end to the madness and a safe return home. Let us set the record straight, and call an end to the sacrifice of the heroes of this war.

James Pittard is a Davidson alumnus who lives in Charlotte, North Carolina.

Damn computers. I just lost my entire column, “Ten Suggestions for a More Fruitful Valentine’s Day”, to the wonders of modern technology. Damn. I kind of liked it, and I’m sorry it’s gone, but I’m glad for the memories I have of the good times we shared, and it is from those fond memories that I will forge a new brace for myself and manage to go on living. There are a few complaints to which I must respond, however, so I'll make this brief. In the past week I've taken a great deal of heat about last week’s article regarding sci-fi spit. My column is a joke, that’s all, nothing more. I’m not trying to change college policy, or “make people take notice” of anything. I really don’t care too much about the topics each week to get upset over them, I only use them as material for a few jokes. Please stop taking it so seriously. If you don’t think my column is funny, then don’t read it. It’s as simple as that. I haven’t got the time to re-write this week’s installment, and so Rude Notes will return next week.

Defining Feminism From A Personal Perspective
By Sandra Smith '91

On March 29, 1989 I used poor judgement and went running after dark, alone. As I approached the overpass on Main Street in Cornelius (near Carolina Cones), I was assaulted. The aggressor was a male much larger than me. I screamed. As I struggled to escape his grip, he told me to shut up or he would kill me. Just as my walkman headphone cord was tangling around us both, I saw what I thought at the time was a beam of light shining down from my Creator, and Gabriel’s horn playing my death tune. Quickly I realized that it was the headlights of an Oldsmobile, driven by a bearded Good Samaritan blowing his horn to scare the attacker away.

I can no longer feebly acquiesce to the assumed notions and allegations made about feminism on this campus and about the feminist movement in general. While I will not be so pretentious as to say that I will set this misguided dispute straight, I may be of some help. Remember, however, that I can only speak for myself. My favorite definition of a feminist is: a) a person who believes that women should have political, economic and social rights equal to those of men.men; b) one who believes the implementation of feminist principles will create a more equitable balance of justice and power for all. I consider a feminist as someone who insists on equality. I do hope no female thinks she has to be “a man in a man’s world” to be treated as an equal. The feminist movement has come a long way, and is attempting now to focus on a woman’s choice as the most important thing, based on her equality of opportunity (which, by the way, does not exist in its purest form, legally or socially). Personally, (as you might guess, I am a feminist), to avoid two extremes, I would no more want to propel myself along the patriarchal, imperialistic corporate ladder, than have my period and wear a tampon every single day of the month. But I am a woman, and I am glad I am a woman. What does all this mean to you, the responsible citizen and able student? Whether you call yourself a feminist or not, my point is not to convert anyone. I never, never forget the sound of my own voice screaming from lungs with immeasurable depths and an inexhaustible capacity for noise. I am telling you about this incident, two years after the fact, for several reasons, none of which are to receive attention, or God forbid, any sympathy. I do so because people on this campus need to be awakened not only to the injustices of this society, and to be aware that rape, sexual harassment, and abuse take place, but we need to take responsibility for our own actions and attitudes.

Two fundamental feelings arose from my attack. The first was fear—fear for myself, my friends, and my sisters. I had a fear of shadows, of strangers walking behind me, of large trees behind which aggressors may lurk, and most of all, laying awake at night and getting stuck in a negative thought cycle. I have dealt with these overwhelming emotions and am quite secure now. However, the feeling I will never get over was the fact that my privacy was violated in an extreme measure, not for sexual reasons, but for violent reasons. I was assaulted because I was a woman.

What prompted me to write this column was not recurring bad dreams of the unfortunate incident described above, but rather the absurd, generalized, and oversimplified debate in the Davidsonian. I believe that all persons should be evaluated, treated, and judged as individuals based on their own merits, abilities, and interests. This includes control of their own body, sexual preference, and reproductive rights. I must respond to an article which appeared by Stephen Hill, “Feminism Reexamined.” Not only did Mr. Hill assume that all feminists “divorce themselves from traditional feminine qualities,” but “by embracing more masculine qualities, many women have found themselves propelled along the corporate ladder.” Mr. Hill says that “they are losing a vital part of themselves.” He says that this repression is unhealthy. Mr. Hill seems to forget that these stereotyped characteristics he refers to are socially constructed notions, and that a healthy balance of feminine and masculine principles is not only possible but healthy. I agree we should not repress any inherent qualities, but we should let blossom those qualities which society refuses to acknowledge based on our sex. No, Mr. Hill, women do not have to “prove to society the value of these feminine qualities.” We have to be WHO we are, make our own choices, and refuse to comply with absurd conditions some people put on us. I think we should all respect what feminism stands for and not only respect each other as human beings but respect ourselves as well.

One fourth of us will be graduating from Davidson College in May. That means goodbye sweet utopia, it’s a harsh world out there. But is this utopia I am referring to the same haven where assault, date rape, and abusive relationships occur? Is this the same place where women suffer from eating disorders, suffer from low self-esteem, indulge in dependent or co-dependent relationships, do not speak up in class, and abuse substances which often lead to unhealthy situations? I think many women and men on campus are confronting these issues, and I think it’s fantastic. A feminist movement is not going anywhere until we learn to raise our own consciousness and foster self-respect.

However, Liz Davidson, in her article “Davidson Defends Male Sex,” printed last week, refuses to be associated with the “bitterness that campus feminists espouse.” Well, I am not bitter, Ms. Davidson (slap my hand, call me crazy). And if I get out of line, if I seem “bitchy or irrational,” as Ms. Davidson describes some feminists, then call me a menopausal militant wench.

Sandra Smith is a senior history major from Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

In Order To Form A More Perfect Union! We Need You! Sign Up For Committee Chairperson In the Union Pit February 11 - February 16 Questions? Call Kim x6266, Jennifer x6258, or Joy at x6413.