THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Students Must Speak Out About Campus Lighting
By Curt Bickers

Reflecting on my freshman experience here, I think back to the first weekend. Orientation was well underway and the Class
of 1993 was being drilled about the Honor System one evening. The meeting was over, my new-found friends and I
were contemplating what was said, and we walked out of Chambers towards Belk, only to be blinded by the darkness.
Needless to say, over the next few years I have adjusted to the dim lighting around campus, but the issue
of lighting is a topic which everyone must face.

How is the lighting system on campus? What is the worst area on campus? What are the improvements which need
to be made? How safe do people really feel in our seemingly bubbled world? There are many questions to be
asked and answered around campus in order to set the record straight about Davidson’s lighting. I asked students, faculty, public
safety officers, the Physical Plant, Alumni Relations, and the Dean of Students several questions regarding how safe they feel on
campus, what improvements should be made in lighting, if they feel lighting has improved, and what area is the worst
lit on campus.

Seven students expressed a variety of views about Davidson’s lighting. Some students said they do not feel safe walking at
night around campus. At the same time, others have complete confidence in the safety of the community. Some use the
escort service while others have never even given it a thought. The area that students cited as the worst lit
on campus is the area between Chambers and the row of dorms from Little to Duke. They talked of almost
running into people while going or coming from the library at night. Another poorly lit area is between the Sports
Complex and Johnston Gym. They repeatedly suggested to simply put up more lights. One senior, however, put the whole lighting
picture into perspective. “There definitely has been a big change in lighting since I matriculated here. The bureaucracy as a
whole has improved the safety of our school so much. I’m glad about that.”

The Physical Plant had some suggestions for anyone wanting to make a difference or get involved. Philip Cashion said students
who find problems such as burnt out lights should call in work orders. The Physical Plant staff is not around
as much at night so they cannot always monitor all of the lights on campus. The Physical Plant does operate
a system with the police in which the night patrol wraps ribbon around each light pole that is out. Also,
once a week the Physical Plant turns on the lights in the daytime and checks the bulbs. But this system
is not foolproof, so students can do their part. Cashion informed me that the improvements are far from over. He
said that ten to twelve more lights will be added this school year. The lights will be installed around the
Union, Chemistry, and Biology buildings. Money is not a problem. Each pole costs around $700. Bob Collins controls the finances
and decides where the lights go. The Physical Plant is making a good effort to provide Davidson with a safe
environment.

Two Public Safety officers provided helpful suggestions to all students regarding safety in general. The officers definitely feel that the
Physical Plant has done a lot with the lighting and trimming hedges to make areas safer. The officers’ distress was
with the naivete of the students. They ask students to call if they see someone who is not from the
campus on campus. One officer said that the lighting is better here than at some other area campuses. Like the
students, they both felt that the worst lit area is between Chambers and the row dorms. The officers also pushed
the escort service, because few students use it and it is so readily available.

Will Terry, Dean of Students, believes that there are dark spots on campus, but does not want the campus bathed
in light. He says we have been very lucky not to have had any incidents so far, but he also
commends the Public Safety for providing a safe atmosphere for students. He also praised the Physical Plant for already improving
greatly the campus lighting. Sue Ross, Registrar, expressed interest in more lighting because she frequently works really late at night.
She conveys that students can help by speaking to herself, the Dean of Students office, or Residence Life, where they
may submit a work order or complaint. Ross feels that the reason things are not done is because students do
not voice their problems.

Overall, the safety of the students is the first priority of campus officials. Students need to submit written orders if
they think a certain area is not safe. It takes time to put in the lighting and rewiring as well.
So, until the Physical Plant can accomplish all of the improvements, use the escort service, or walk with a friend
if you are afraid. We have been a lucky campus, and if the Davidson community works together, it will continue
to be safe for all.

Grossed Out By Newspaper Stories? Join the Club

I do not consider myself to be old-fashioned or a prude, but lately I’ve been a little horrified at some
of the things I’ve read in newspapers, including The Davidsonian. Who of us this summer escaped the revolting accounts of
Jeffrey Dahmer’s “practices” involving a Shetland pony? After reading the story, I laughed and cried and screamed “FOWL” for the
better part of an hour, but My Genital Self Examination (GSE) to be totally misplaced. It was just too much.
Why a student-written piece concerning something so technical and sensitive was wedged into the Campus Living section is beyond me.in
Milwaukee? Newspaper and periodical subscribers were practically force-fed pieces of information that may have been best left implied. While I
recognize the newsworthiness of such a story, I sincerely question the necessity of being told over and over again precisely
what Dahmer did with every conceivable body part. Must we know everything? Is it too much to ask that we
be spared a few details? I mean, most of us really didn’t want to read about Teddy Kennedy wearing a
shirt, and only a shirt, one infamous night in Palm Beach. Or Andrew Spainhour section between India and the Freshman
Odyssey is beyond me. Now, before everyone gets too upset, I want to say in the most absolute of terms
that such information is vital and awareness is crucial. But as far as I’m concerned, the subject could best be
presented in another medium. Wouldn’t a pamphlet written by a physician and mailed to every student’s post office box, or
a hall lecture given by Health Educator Georgia Ringle be more effective? I think so. Many of us are sick
to death of being grossed out every time we read the newspaper. We don’t need to know every then again,
am I the only person totally grossed out by that image? No story seems too risqué to print. Is nothing
taboo? Last year, I read a bizarre story in The Charlotte Observer about a Monroe man who had done time
for, well, becoming intimately in- Questionin' That: Lord, somebody’s sweet little aunt probably had to turn to the sherry for
consolation that day. All of this leads me to broach a topic that is sure to get me in hot
water. I found last week’s Sexuality & Health column concerning disgusting detail that relates to every famous case. And in
matters of serious physical or emotional concern, there are better ways to gain awareness than to shock readers with embarrassingly
graphic details.

A Conversation on the Tracks

This column will consist of a series of conversations between two randomly selected black students at Davidson College who shall
remain nameless. They run into By the way, Ebony is a lot cheaper if you get a subscription, rather than
buying it off the rack, my brother! two weeks, and the Davidsonian staff has approved their dialogue for official publication.

A: Does something vex thee, Jay?
J: Aye, but alas I fear my frustration and anxiety doth fester in vain. My senior resume sorely lacks gainful
extra-curricular activities.
A: ’Tis true as doth my feet hurt on these tracks.
J: Methinks the writing of a column canst both inform the peasantry and provide haven for thine weary soles.
A: What say you, then, concerning these tracks which treateth my feet so brutally?
J: I think the whole set up is very wack. After four years, the thing that amazes me most about
Jay Ferguson & Anthony Foxx Davidson is the fact that the College as a whole is to this day afraid
to truly cross these tracks.
A: Are you sure? Yesterday, I went to Cornwell Drugs and bought the latest issue of Ebony magazine. I go
over the tracks on the way to KFC. Seldom is there a place on Main Street where one cannot see
the tracks. How can you say that the College is afraid of the tracks? The College is on the tracks!
J: I wish that were true, because if the College were on the tracks, it would be much closer to
the other side than it has ever been in the past. But we won’t get close enough to the tracks
to see what’s going on over there. I guess we’re afraid of being run over by trains.
A: But how close is close enough?
J: That’s the point, you can never get too close. Most of us get close enough to tutor one or
two young people, or take a turkey to a family at Thanksgiving, but never close enough to see that there
is poverty and a huge drug problem once you cross these tracks. We should all make time to take a
much closer look at what’s on the other side of the tracks. Only by scrutinizing what’s going on on the
other side can we get an idea of how we can help improve things for those who are forced to
stay there. It might make us uncomfortable, but we must remember that, no matter how much we dislike what we
see, we’ll always be able to cross back.
A: Is it your point then that we ignore the tracks and that we must assume more responsibility, or is
it that we inherit a way of life that is not questioned and should be?
J: I’d have to say both, if I understand your question correctly. We can all do more, from individual students
like you and me on up to the College as a whole. We're all guilty of some degree of apathy.
With enough effort, we can strip the tracks of their negative symbolism. That way they probably wouldn’t hurt your feet
so badly, either.
A: Let us hope so. But I think that it is important that we examine this environment. Can we set
up some time to discuss matters further?
J: How about in two weeks or so? As for now, shall we partake of a greaseburger in the Cafe?
A: We shall.

Rules continued from page 6

must mold them and anoint them with our beings to be sure. But most importantly, we must not let them
get in our way. Evil permeates this world. Behind the dark side of every open door it hovers, serene, looming
there like the silent palm of Pee-Wee Herman, poised to grab our young. We cannot save them if the urchins
tie us down! Shut those doors! Lock ’em tight! Squelch the Fresh Force before they all start planting grass.
