"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXxXXIlI
MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991
NUMBER 18

Point of Light Award Honors Student Volunteers for Reading Program
By Lisa Gerrard

President Bush has named the 329th “Daily Point of Light,” bringing special recognition to more than 70 Davidson College students
and others who serve as reading tutors with the non-profit organization Cities In Schools of Charlotte.

For each day he holds office, President Bush honors a single volunteer effort with the Point of Light Award. In
a letter of appreciation to Cities In Schools, he wrote, “I have urged all Americans to make community service central
to their lives and work. Judging by your active engagement in helping others, it is clear that you understand this
obligation.”

Cities in Schools, which is directed by Cynthia Marshall, targets middle school and high school students at risk of dropping
out. With forty branches nationwide and eight in North Carolina, the organization seeks to channel community resources into public schools.
One of the most successful endeavors of the agency is the Time To Read Program for reading improvement, created and
sponsored by Time Magazine. When Cities In Schools began this program in 1988, Davidson College students were the first in
the nation to become involved as Time to Read tutors. Davidson students continue to tutor through the financial support of
Cablevision of Charlotte, which spends approximately $150 per learner to meet costs of training and materials.

The Charlotte branch attracted presidential attention for its high number of volunteers. Locally, Cities in Schools involves 330 tutor-mentors working
with 400 adolescents in six area schools. Davidson College students comprise approximately one quarter of these volunteers. During Davidson’s first
year of participation, 32 members of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity assisted the Charlotte students, but the number grew to
more than 80 the following year, when Davidson’s service coordinator...

Continued on Page 2

Trustees Announce Tuition Increases
By Sean Lind

On February 25, the College mailed letters to students and parents announcing tuition increases for the 1991-92 academic year. The
budget, approved by the Board of Trustees last week, includes the following: Required Charges (including tuition, laundry, and activity fees)
are $13,600; Room is $2060; and Meals are $2100 (this charge applies only to students taking the 19-meal plan with
the Commons). This comes to a grand total of $17,840. The new budget is a $1546 increase over last year’s
budget of $16,294. This represents an overall increase of 9.5%, almost the same rate of increase as the last two
years.

Associate Dean of Financial Aid Gordon Peck stated that “An increase in financial aid will keep pace with the increase
in fees.” According to Peck, 17-18% of tuition revenue is returned to the College for financial aid. The one persistent
problem appears to be “middle-income melt,” according to Peck. Those families with incomes from $35,000 to $70,000 are often hurt
by tuition hikes because they earn just enough to make them ineligible for financial aid, but not enough to enable
them to easily absorb the increase in cost. President Kuykendall stated that the College is "making an effort to discover
a way to help these families." In the future, Davidson is considering a loan fund or a College management fund
to help students with financial need.

Davidson Holds Post-War Middle East Conference
By David Thompson

On Saturday, March 2, the Student Government Association of Davidson College hosted a conference to discuss several aspects of the
seemingly concluded war in the Middle East. Approximately 30 students, faculty members, and Davidson residents attended the round-table discussion at
1:00 pm in the 900 Room of the...College Union. Sarah Sadowski opened the discussion by asking the participants to express
their thoughts regarding the use and manipulation of language throughout the conflict. Dr. Gail Gibson of the English department spoke
about the various euphemisms employed by both the military and the media. “We find euphemisms as a matter of policy,”
she said, “but it’s also part of a psychic strategy. It’s very difficult to face the horrors of war, and
these are ways of dealing with it.” Dr. Ralph Levering, of the History department, humorously noted that “there’s nothing like
a group of academics for euphemisms.” Gibson went on to discuss the metaphors which have characterized this war, and how
they have influenced civilian perception of the events in the Middle East.

Continues on page 3

Photo By Chris

Graffiti was seen painted on the porch of the KA house.

Pledge Wars Get Out Of Control
By Gary Wheeler

Fraternity pledge class rivalries are nothing new to Davidson. This year, however, pranks and retaliations, or “paybacks,” have escalated to
an unacceptable level, says Dean of Students Will Terry. Last weekend, a box of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity’s pledge
manual, The Phoenix, was taken from the Union Desk. Tuesday morning, the SAE lion was found buried and painted in
front of Chambers by the grounds crew. On Sunday night, the Kappa Alpha house received an unsolicited paint job. The
most visible graffiti on the house reads, “SAE, KA sucks,” and, on the roof, “Phi Alpha,” a Sigma Alpha Epsilon
greeting phrase.

Terry warns that incidences like these, while they may be infrequent, are nevertheless high-profile. “There are a lot of people
at Davidson who don’t like fraternities, so this type of thing does not play well for fraternities. It seems that
the people involved don’t know when enough is enough.”

For the most part, however, pledges of the fraternities seem to enjoy their rivalries. John Allen ’94, a KA pledge,
says, “We have fun. We love SAE, and we go to all their parties. The only thing bad is when
fights break out.” Allen also said that rivalries are generally kept in perspective. “Friendship comes first, then fraternity.” He also
feels that the special rivalry KA and SAE have brings their respective pledge classes closer together. “Our pledging is more
difficult [than at other fraternities] and that makes us tighter, maybe arrogant is another way of putting it.”

Jim Vincent ’94, a SAE pledge, said that he did not take pledge pranks personally. Vincent said that if someone
stole his Phoenix that he would not consider it an Honor Code violation. “I just take it with a fraternity
mind-set and get them [the rival fraternity pledges] back.” When asked where he would draw the line between rivalry and
destruction, Vincent said, “Messing with fraternity symbols is acceptable, but I would never ruin someone’s [another fraternity’s] stereo or other
expensive stuff.”

Terry, however, is apparently fed up with the destruction that has already taken place this pledge season. “The word is
out to the parties involved: if they don’t clean up their act they can expect to cease pledge activities for
the year, and may even jeopardize their ability to pledge students next year,” Terry warned.

Some fraternities avoid intense rivalries with other pledge classes. Jason Phillips ’92, a pledge trainer for Kappa Sigma, said that
KS does not want to get involved in the “payback” routine. “If pledges start having rivalries, it [the division caused
by rivalries] carries into brotherhood. Rivalries may have an effect on bonding, but overall they are negative.”

INSIDE
News
Soviet diplomats speak at Davidson. Page 4
Desai wins Spelling Bee. Page 2

Opinions
Assistant Coach Ingram responds. Page 5
Beyond Birkenstock attacks American Pictures. Page 7

Inside Art Returns
Page 8

Campus Living
Merchant of Venice review. Page 11

Sports
Big South Tourney coverage. Page 14

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036
