2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

Community College Transfers Get Better Grades

CORVALLIS, Ore. (CPS) -- Students who transfer to Oregon State University in their junior or senior years have higher grade
point averages than students who started at OSU, a study by OSU researcher, Carol Kominski found. Two-year campus transfer students’
averages tend to be 10 to 15 points higher than the OSU average. Though the transfer students’ grades drop after
they enroll at OSU, they stay higher than average, Kominski concluded.

“What this study shows,” Kominski said, “is that community college students can be very successful if they choose to continue
their education at a university.”

New York Students Want to Switch to “Womyn”

ALBANY, N.Y. (CPS) -- The student government at The State University of New York at Albany has resolved to use
the term “womyn” whenever it refers to its own women’s issues coordinator in its written material. Advocates of the measure
maintained the spelling “womyn” is a “less sexist term” than the accepted spelling of “women,” the New York Student Leader
reported.

Virginia Grads Don’t Want to Switch to Women

RICHMOND, Va. (CPS) -- About 500 alumni and “friends” of Virginia Military Institute staged a mid-January lobbying assault on the
state legislature, asking lawmakers not to force the all-male VMI to start admitting women. A bill sponsored by state Sen.
Emilie Miller would ban sex discrimination at state-supported schools. The federal government in 1990 told VMI its admissions policies illegally
barred women. In April, a federal court is scheduled to start hearing VMI’s arguments why its prohibition of women does
not violate federal anti-discrimination rules. The Citadel in South Carolina is the only other state-supported exclusively male campus in the
U.S.

Committee Announces New Hall Counselors

By Sean Lind

Last Sunday, February 3rd, a ten-member committee, composed of College faculty and staff, selected the Hall Counselors for the 1991-92
year. The new counselors are:

Catherine Turner
Sam Adams
Erin Lee
Tracey Barwick
David Lindsay
Geoff Bradford
Caleb Loring
Matthew Bumstead
Laura Ann Melenas
Kathryn Casey
May Martin
Joe Cook
Tom McDermott
Anthony Crystal
William McWhorter
Laura Cunningham
Diedra Montague
Lida Elizabeth Dahm
Tom Price
Max Fisher
Walter Price
Anthony Foxx
Ursula Reel
Sarah Gayle
Stancel Riley
Katherine Hetherington
Andrew Spainhour
Amy Hoffheimer
Alan Verm
Billy Hull
David Wang
Mark Johnson
Scott Windham

Alternates are:
Mary Elizabeth Coley
Kirby Sheely
Mary Kelly Davis
Kelly Denese Thompson
Tom Koonce

Leslie Marsicano, Assistant Dean of Students, detailed the selection process. Applicants go through a three-step process designed to give the
committee as complete a picture as possible of each individual. Sophomores wishing to be hall counselors fill out a written
application consisting of biographical information and six essays. Essays include “define Hall Counselor” and “list personal strengths and weaknesses.” The
written form helps give a basis or introduction for the committee to work with. Each applicant must also submit recommendations
from faculty, counselors, and their peers. The last are very important because they give the board a sense of how
incoming freshmen might view prospective hall counselors. Third, each applicant has two 10-15 minute interviews with a five-member panel. The
reason for two interviews, Dean Marsicano states, is to ensure the comfort of the interviewees, and to get a better,
fuller picture of the applicant as an individual.

Quote of the Week:
"Man, I could be sitting right there.” Sophomore Anthony Foxx pointing to empty seats in the Charlotte Coliseum during the
Slam-Dunk contest last Saturday night.

Amy Edmunds '80 Discusses Employment-Related Issues

Regarding methods for Davidson students to prepare themselves for the workplace, Edmunds stated clearly, “do something! I throw that out
more as a challenge than anything else.” Edmunds urges Davidson students to explore the opportunities around them, and not to
become too narrow in what they are doing while at school. Edmunds also offered a checklist of qualities for which
employers look, and things students can do to aid their marketability.

1) Be inclusive of human behavior courses in your curriculum at Davidson. Social sciences are very important to the development
of understanding in the workplace.2) Engage in extracurricular activities to learn teamwork and interpersonal skills. Employers look for team players.

Photo Courtesy of College Relations
Entrepreneur Edmunds '80 spoke at the Eleventh Hour.

By David Thompson

During last Thursday’s 11th Hour lecture, Amy Edmunds ’80 discussed employment-related issues and offered several suggestions for Davidson students who
wish to make themselves more marketable in the workplace.

This Halifax, Virginia native has 10 years of sales and sales management experience, is a member of the Better Business
Bureau and the Small Business Council, among other organizations dealing with employment in Charlotte. She also owns and operates two
firms, Executive Reflections and Executive Essentials, which aid both personnel departments for Fortune 500 companies, as well as those seeking
employment with such corporations. Her writings have been published in over 15 newspapers, and on Tuesday evenings at 8:00 pm,
Edmunds hosts a television show on Cable channel 8 called “Executive Reflections.” As if her schedule were not full already,
Edmunds also devotes time each month to a modeling career, and she can be seen in certain advertisements in the
Charlotte area.

Edmunds stressed the importance of internships to one’s Davidson experience. “Davidson can become very utopian, very tranquil,” she said. “Internships
can shake it up.” While at Davidson, Edmunds engaged herself in several internships which helped her decide what she did
want to do by showing her things she did not want to do. Of her internship at The Charlotte Observer,
for example, Edmunds said, “trying to make news when there is no news is not something I found enjoyable.”

3) Develop listening skills. Students too often become frustrated with their jobs because they are not willing, or just unable,
to listen. In today’s economy, one should not take their jobs for granted and need to listen carefully to the
needs and wants of their employers.

4) Employers see leadership ability as an absolute necessity. Technical knowledge is not enough; people must be able to motivate
a group to action.

5) Flexibility is a must. Don’t be afraid to take on responsibilities which lie outside of your stated job description.

6) Develop a sense of urgency about yourself. Be willing to put in the extra time required to distinguish yourself
as both a student now and as an employee in the future. Edmunds suggests that if you cannot name at
least two characteristics that set you apart from the crowd, you need to develop them.

7) Finally, Edmunds urges a sense of perspective. Do not lose yourself, your identity, in your work. Know the importance
of what you do, but realize that your work experience should not be all-consuming. Where you are employed is a
part of your life, but not your whole life.

Two Grants To Davidson Support Campaign And Sciences

By John Wilson

Davidson has recently received several grants from the Duke Endowment and the W.M. Keck Foundation, which will help Davidson meet
the needs for its projects. The Duke Foundation gave $525,000 for projects supporting facilities, faculty, students, and the Love of
Learning program. Duke grants have now totaled over $37.8 million. The portion of the grant for students entails financial aid,
the counseling center, and the Davidson Plus program. With its commitment to meet 100 percent of the financial need of
students, the grant provides an additional $75,000. The grant also includes $75,000 for faculty compensation and $50,000 to meet funds
for scholarly projects. The funds also will support a renovation of Johnson Gymnasium to a new college union, and a
construction of a new infirmary. Love of Learning will receive an addition of $75,000 from the grant.

The Keck Foundation provided a grant of $175,000 for enhancing the equipment used by student scientists. The money will help
purchase a new Fourier transform nuclear magnetic resonance instrument for chemistry students, while biology students will receive ten or more
high-powered “work station” computers.

Wolfgang Christian, associate professor of physics, helped write the grant. He commented, “It will have an immediate impact on enhancing
student instruction and research opportunities.” Christian also stated that the computers will hopefully be operational by August 15. This is
the second grant received by the W.M. Keck Foundation. Two years ago, Davidson used the grant to purchase equipment for
a laser laboratory.
