THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991

We Can Support Both The Environment And The War

To begin with, I thank Rob Kelly for his response to my article of two weeks ago. I am encouraged that others consider the issue of faculty evaluations important and am impressed that action resulted. As an (amateur) journalist, I wish to connect people with information rather than simply complaining about isolated problems and offering idealistic solutions. So stated, this week I address the ever-present war. I hope my thoughts will provoke interest and initiative.

The war is in its twelfth day. Time Magazine recently stated, “If there is such a thing as a just war, President Bush launched one against Saddam.” I agree. Whatever your beliefs about the war, there are positive steps you can take with regard to it. Undeniably, one of the central issues of the war is its link with oil. The issue is far more complicated than a bumper sticker slogan of “No Blood for Oil.” Our economy is dependent upon the oil in the Gulf to run our transportation systems among other things. The price-per-barrel of oil and Dow Jones Industrial average fluctuate wildly upon the latest word from the Gulf. ABC News pointed out that Hussein can blow up the Kuwaiti oil wells. He might attempt to foil our air force by blackening the skies or just do it for revenge as he retreats. Either desperate act would wreak environmental havoc.

I assert that one of the best ways for a civilian to behave in response to the war is to conserve oil at home and to recycle our natural resources. I admit that this suggestion does not defeat the argument that this war is for oil. Uncle Sam may have clinched free oil for years by doing this little favor for Kuwait. Pretty smart move, if you ask me. Even if this cynical notion has a shred of credibility, what could I do about it? Reduce the demand which created the situation in the first place. Consider the following simple things: To save oil, check the air in your tires and fill them if they are low. Try to keep your car tuned up so that the engine runs efficiently. Organize your errands together so that you don’t make unnecessary trips to the Pantry or Cornelius, for example. Carpool when possible. (To the Pub?) Write your congress in support of a higher gasoline tax (Sorry George, read my acid rain) and higher standards for clean air and water. When you look for a new car in the future, exercise your influence as a consumer by choosing high-mileage cars as opposed to the turbo family living room model. Once you leave Davidson and enter the workforce, in a city perhaps, use public transit. Of course, if the recession continues you might be forced by economic necessity to pursue this option. But you can read the paper on the way to work and encounter many interesting characters. You might also pack a large-caliber handgun, but whistle and smile knowing you are doing the right thing. In all seriousness, “Think globally, act locally,” is a bumper sticker idea that I do believe in. It is also politically inert. Lefty granolas, Yuppies, the NRA, and Jesse Helms, whether they like each other or not, share the same ecosystem and economic system. Both sides stand to gain from properly managing the investment we humans have in our natural resources. Part of that is decreasing consumption.

Oil is not the only natural resource. Recycle aluminum, plastic, and glass containers. Recycle newspapers, loose-leaf and colored paper, and notebooks at the end of the year. Turn off the water when you brush your teeth. Take shorter showers, or even skip a day. Turn off the lights. Plant a tree.

Bush tells us that this war is part of the plan to establish a “new world order.” Our soldiers are fighting for that ideal and other ideals such as national sovereignty and the inhospitability of “naked aggression” in this world. The situation tests the coalition of Western and Arab nations, as well as the credibility of the UN.

Continued on Page 13

A Swift Kick In The Backside

In recent weeks there has been much controversy over protests regarding the administration’s policies in the Persian Gulf. We do live in a society which allows for freedoms of expression and persons are allowed to express their feelings. However, to say that one has the right to do something belies the fact that we live in a society of both material and philosophical luxury. Here on the Davidson Campus, it is years ago, understand that they are expected to go and to fight where the leaders of our nation, democratically chosen by our population, feel that the armed forces are needed in order to protect the U.S. and its significant interests abroad. Despite the fact that supporting policies, perhaps at the cost of one’s own health, may conflict with our strong sense of independence, tions moreTime. Do not waste your creative energies when the point is already moot. Let’s unite and genuinely rally behind those serving in the Gulf and our leaders so that we can help bring the conflict to a quick resolution. It is neither a time to be partisan nor is it a time to complain about what we should or should not have done. No one is a ‘hawk’ in a time of war. Everyone, especially the military, wants to see as quick an end to the hostilities as possible. As we watch the conflict in the Persian Gulf develop, we will need to be especially aware of the sensitivities of all involved. As we appraise the depth of our military commitment, we will all begin to understand the gravity of the situation and the state of crisis which war creates, even on the periphery. We all want peace. However, we have a longer road ahead of us than Ted Koppel may have led us to believe on January 16th. Let’s not be the bratty college kids who spent their college years complaining about what was done in the Gulf. If anything, we should allow the Gulf situation to be an impetus for public service of some sort. It is a time for us to ‘stand and deliver’ for our community in crisis. It doesn’t matter if you are serving in the military as a Green Beret or if you are an A.C.L.U. volunteer in California, the important thing is that you are contributing to the common well-being.

Our nation will continue to face a period of tremendous challenges and needs on all levels. We are the generation most prepared to deliver new solutions. We all must participate in some sort of service if we are to meet the challenges that are now and will soon be confronting us. The service ranges from the international to the local. Davidson is fertile land for producing leaders of both today and tomorrow. We are a talented student body most capable of this task. Let’s get on with it. Whether you are Left or Right, Liberal or Conservative, Short or Tall, Write to Us. All op-ed pieces need to be turned into the Davidsonian by Friday, 1 p.m. Call David W. Scott ("The Bearded One") at x6615.

It is easy to forget the tremendous resources being invested into our personal development. We are a minute fraction of the world’s population, yet we will be responsible for seeing that this nation, and to an extent this world, improves in some way because of our having been here. All of those who are able to read this paper live in luxury. Although we may not appreciate it, we all live beneath a crazy, wonderful umbrella, the United States. It is the land of potential. Our only true restriction is the limit of our motivation to serve and to improve the world around us. We do face problems of amazing proportions, but their resolution will depend upon the work of our generation and those which follow. Although the participants of Operation Desert Storm did not sign up to go specifically to the desert, they did sign up to support our national policies and to protect the Constitution of the United States. It is a significant commitment, and the day that men and women no longer find that serving our nation is worth the personal risk, we will all be in trouble. As the battles continue to rage on in the desert, we must remember that those who have volunteered to serve our public are fighting at this very moment. Our leaders, of both parties, have debated and reached an agreement on Gulf Policy. The decision whether or not to continue sanctions was made long ago. Therefore, it is senseless to protest that we should have given sanctions more time. Do not waste your creative energies when the point is already moot. Let’s unite and genuinely rally behind those serving in the Gulf and our leaders so that we can help bring the conflict to a quick resolution. It is neither a time to be partisan nor is it a time to complain about what we should or should not have done. No one is a ‘hawk’ in a time of war. Everyone, especially the military, wants to see as quick an end to the hostilities as possible. As we watch the conflict in the Persian Gulf develop, we will need to be especially aware of the sensitivities of all involved. As we appraise the depth of our military commitment, we will all begin to understand the gravity of the situation and the state of crisis which war creates, even on the periphery. We all want peace. However, we have a longer road ahead of us than Ted Koppel may have led us to believe on January 16th. Let’s not be the bratty college kids who spent their college years complaining about what was done in the Gulf. If anything, we should allow the Gulf situation to be an impetus for public service of some sort. It is a time for us to ‘stand and deliver’ for our community in crisis. It doesn’t matter if you are serving in the military as a Green Beret or if you are an A.C.L.U. volunteer in California, the important thing is that you are contributing to the common well-being.

Our nation will continue to face a period of tremendous challenges and needs on all levels. We are the generation most prepared to deliver new solutions. We all must participate in some sort of service if we are to meet the challenges that are now and will soon be confronting us. The service ranges from the international to the local. Davidson is fertile land for producing leaders of both today and tomorrow. We are a talented student body most capable of this task. Let’s get on with it. Whether you are Left or Right, Liberal or Conservative, Short or Tall, Write to Us. All op-ed pieces need to be turned into the Davidsonian by Friday, 1 p.m. Call David W. Scott ("The Bearded One") at x6615.