MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991 Sports THE DAVIDPHONIAN 10

JERRY TARKANIAN TO COACH THE WILDCATS
By Kenny Dunkitt

It’s official. As former Davidson basketball coach Bob McKillop heads off to the Middle East to take charge of the
Tel-Aviv Prognostidigitators, a semi-pro team led by former Wildcat star Edward “Magic” Gaines, a replacement was announced last Friday. The
lucky successor is none other than Jerry “Tark the Shark” Tarkanian, the controversial yet beleaguered coach from the University of
Nevada-Las Vegas.

Tarkanian, or “Tark,” when asked why he wanted to leave the bright lights and gambling casinos of the “city of
sin,” not to mention big-time basketball, the bald and puppy-dog-eyed coach responded: “It’s time for me to move on and
do something I’ve always wanted to do—coach the Davidson basketball team. In 1986, when I saw them play Kentucky on
ESPN and heard about their 1280 SAT average, I said ‘wow, I didn’t even know you could get those kinds
of numbers on a test like that.’ I’d really like to be part of that.”

After talking to Tark, The Davidphonian went to President John “Captain Kuyk” Kuykendall to get his comments on Tark’s hiring.
We asked him if people around here weren’t going to raise a few questions about getting a coach whose name
is synonymous with recruiting violations. “Raise questions? Raise hell is more like it!” said Kuyk. “I mean, isn’t it time
we put a little excitement back into Davidson basketball? I mean, Tark won ball games out at (Las) Vegas didn’t
he? Well didn’t he? Personally, I’m ready for some dunks. I mean, this issue is really centered around dunks isn’t
it?”

Kuyk also added, “I really have to hand it to Christopher B. “Kit” Morris for his help in this transition.
Bobby really surprised us with his defection to the Persian Gulf or wherever, but Kit was there to get Tark
for us when we needed a coach.”

Athletic Director Terry Holland, who for some reason, was just about to leave on a trip to the Caribbean for
a while, said, “Hey, I think it’s great. Tark’s (Las) Vegas teams from the past two years have been on
my top five college basketball teams since 1965. I mean, if you ask me, I’m ready to see some alley-oops
and 360 reverse dunks. This Tark issue is really centered around dunks isn’t it?” Holland’s wife, Ann, had no comment.

A few of the most interesting reactions came from the players. Junior Paul Rybiski said: “He’s a great coach. I
sure like the way he took a technical foul when he tried to start all six of his (Las) Vegas
seniors for their last home game. I sure hope he does it again when I’m a senior!” Junior Paul Denmond
responded, “You know, this will be my third coach in four years. I sure hope this guy works out for
me.”

HUSSEY TO RETURN: WILL COACH WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Gavin Macleod

Davidson’s athletic department surprised the NCAA with its announcement yesterday of plans to field a team in Division I women’s
basketball for the coming fall season. At a time when many are still debating the merits of entry into this
highly competitive but lucrative arena, Davidson’s golden boy Terry Holland has taken the reins and made yet another bold move
to wind up his freshman year as Athletic Director.

Holland’s plans have been perhaps the best-kept secret in Davidson sports history, as he has not only received approval from
the Board of Trustees but has also signed a coach and seven scholarship players. Holland granted a brief interview to
The Davidsonian in which he revealed additional plans to bolster the bench with transfers from the University of Tennessee and
Auburn. “I am really excited about the possibilities for Davidson in women’s basketball,” exclaimed a hatless Holland.

When pressed for more information about his seven freshman recruits, Holland gleefully whispered that they are all All-Americans from Shelbyville
High School in Tennessee. Those readers that keep up with high-school women’s basketball know that Shelbyville High is a consistent
contender for the national championship, largely because of the genetic superiority of many of the girls in the region.said inbreeding
was a bad thing,” chuckled Holland. “My slogan for next year is ‘more P.T. for P.D.’”

Freshman Jason Zimmerman said, “Boy, I think I’m gonna get used to this guy. He’s really nice and much friendlier
than I thought. He has taught me and all my teammates a new way to shake hands with Davidson alumni
outside the locker room after our games. Basically, I really can’t complain—especially after all the things he gave us. I
mean, hey, we love our new cars—uh, I mean, shoes. I’m enjoying my new apartment, but daddy married my sister
and it didn’t affect me none!”

Many members of the Davidson community will be glad to hear that the coach of this promising team will be
the equally promising Bobby Hussey. Claims Holland, “Mr. Hussey’s coaching style may not have worked one-hundred percent of the time
with the men’s team here, but I have a strong feeling that women’s basketball is the very thing he needs
to reach his full potential.” Holland refused to reveal any more details about the team until the press conference which
is scheduled for the Monday following graduation. “I’m really not sure what I’m going to do with the fur coat.
This is North Carolina, you know.”

“I think we'll be very good,” added Sophomore Detlef Musch, in English.

One of the things about Davidson Tark especially enjoys is the academic calibre of its students and its athletes. This
was especially true in terms of Tark’s notorious “amoeba” defense that literally ravaged NCAA opponents all year. “Now I won’t
have to waste valuable practice time explaining to the kids what an amoeba is. Anderson (Hunt) and Stacey (Augmon), a
couple of my former players, sure had a tough time with that one,” chuckled Tark while wiping his forehead with
his ubiquitous towel. “By the way, do they have science classes here?” asked Tark.

Tark has also demanded a few “minor changes” to take place on campus as a “condition” for taking the coaching
position. He wants bright new red and black spandex outfits for all male and female Davidson cheerleaders. Secondly, the mascot
will be changed from “Wildcats” to “Sharks.” In fact, the plush shark costume formerly seen on TV at all the
UNLV home games is on its way to Davidson at this very moment. “I never really liked Runnin’ Rebels anyway,”
said Tark. “And I certainly can’t deal with, whatever you are—what is it? Wildcats?” again wondered Tark.

Thirdly, the Davidson pep band is to be paid buckets of cash every time it plays the “Budweiser” theme song.
“It’ll be just like Vegas,” smiled Tark.

Fourthly, although it had a hard time passing through Residence Life Director Richard Terry, who later gave in to the
new coach’s special requests, Tark demands that all his players will live in New Building ‘D’ (soon to be named
Athletic Dorm ‘D’ or ADD) along with the Davidson football team. Each athlete will get the entire space normally reserved
for four students all to himself, complete with free cable TV, stereo, and privileges to eat in the ADD restaurant
for free. “They wouldn’t let me segregate my players from the gridders,” said Tark. “That’s OK with me though. I
figure the football players will like the monetary bonus they’ll be getting for roughing up anybody that tries to get
at my kids. Coach Dave Fagg has guaranteed their full cooperation and I thank him for that.”

Despite all these changes, Tark feels the Davidson community has already accepted him as one of the family. “Oh yes,
by all means. Tark is already one of the family,” said Kuyk.

Mildred Williams, a resident of The Pines, said: “Now they (Davidson) have really got someone teaching ‘em basketball. I can’t
wait to meet... oh what’s his name. Perhaps he’ll join the choir at the Presbyterian Church over at the college.”
Williams also stated: “I’m ready to see some dunks, I mean, this issue is really centered around dunks, isn’t it?”

Tark starts to work May 1, 1991. A reception for the new head coach will be this Friday behind the
Baker Sports Complex at 4:00. We’re not sure if that’s AM or PM.
