THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991 13

Campus Living

Spanish Department Launches Summer Program In Mexico

By Frances Morton

The Spanish Department is sponsoring the first summer program in Mexico. The trip will be led by the head of the department, Professor Hernandez, and the participants will experience the sights and sounds of Guadalajara, Mexico from May 18 to July 3. Guadalajara is a city of 4.5 million people—the second largest city in the country. Students participating in the program can choose from a wide variety of classes: Mexican Art and Contemporary Mexican Culture are offered for the more advanced students on the trip, and Intensive Intermediate Spanish is intended for those who have only finished their second semester of Spanish. Therefore, there is something for every Spanish student on this trip, no matter what his or her level.

Students who participate in the program will live with Mexican families and will travel during several weekends all throughout Mexico to such places as Guanajuato, Tequila, and San Miguel Allende. The trip will end up with a week in Mexico City and neighboring areas. While in Guadalajara, the group will attend many cultural events such as the “Ballet Folclórico de Guadalajara,” the “Ballet Folclórico de México,” and several other theater productions and concerts.

The structure of the summer program will be very similar to the semester-long excursions abroad that the Spanish department has taken in the past. Usually, the program rotates between Spain and Mexico every other year, but Dr. Hernandez decided to experiment this year with a program that might appeal to students who could not or would not take the time to spend an entire semester away. This program will offer more versatility to the study abroad options that Davidson offers its students.

Liz Davidson & Dair Brown

By Amy Bertram

Basa sat on the perch in her cage and clicked her beak while she shook her body, her way of asking to be let out into the room. Meanwhile, Ryan remained calm in his cage. Basa and Ryan are two birds of prey who live on the third floor of Dana Science Building in the Behavioral Studies room.

If you are wondering why two birds are kept caged on the dreary, windowless third floor of Dana, it’s not a secret, sadistic ploy of those mad biologists. Actually, Ryan, the Red-tailed Hawk, and Basa, the Great-Horned Owl, both have permanent injuries and cannot be released into the wild. According to Dr. Verna Case, each bird is missing a wing. “One was shot and the other one was hit by a car,” she said. “These injuries resulted in amputations for both birds.”

As a work-study job, Deepak Vijayathilakan takes care of the birds. His interest in raptors (birds of prey) developed during his summer internship at the Raptor Center in Huntersville. Deepak’s work consists of feeding the birds daily with either three mice or half a rat each. I questioned him about the half of a rat—he just pointed to an axe lying on the floor. Later he informed me that the rodents are frozen, not live. When it is warm enough, Deepak takes the birds outside once a week. However, he takes them out of their cages daily to sit on perches in the room.

“At the Raptor Center, I was able to work with many types of birds including falcons, owls, and hawks,” Deepak told me. “I learned the importance of the various birds of prey and how they affect ecology. The birds we have here are used for educational purposes, teaching people the impact birds of prey have.” Deepak wants to start using the birds for instructional purposes since they have not been used for education for a few years. Actually, Basa has lived here...Since 1980, while Ryan has only been around for about six years. Both birds are relative newcomers to captivity since, according to Deepak, wild birds can live for up to 25 years in captivity. If you have an interest in birds of prey or are just interested in seeing the beautiful captives, become acquainted with Deepak and have him take you to see them. Not only will you be impressed with the birds, but Deepak’s vast knowledge of raptors will amaze you.

Beware the Evils of Diet Coke & Vivarin During Exams

Liz and Dair say...

Our topic this week is caffeine. We know a lot about this topic from personal experience. Unfortunately, we had to learn the hard way not to abuse Vivarin or coffee or Diet Coke. Everyone should reduce their caffeine intake to as low an amount as possible. Do not try to stay up by popping Vivarins. Though caffeine does keep you awake—it is a stimulant—it does so at the expense of your health. Caffeine is horrible for ulcers or any other stomach problems, prolonged use can cause painful headaches, studies link it to cancer, and caffeine is addictive in the sense that you build up a resistance to it. The one cup of coffee it used to take to wake up in the morning will no longer do the job after a while because the body develops a tolerance for the drug. This is why it is not uncommon to see office workers drinking five or six cups of coffee a day.

Caffeine can also make you tired. Although the drug initially makes the user feel more alert, he or she will feel tired after a period. Thus, drinking coffee in the morning will likely make you more tired than usual in the evening. This is not good if you are driving home on the freeway or preparing for an evening out. Students who use caffeine to pull all-nighters are exhausted by class time. They could perform more poorly as a result.

While caffeine should in general be avoided, nearly all of us at some point need to use it to stay awake. If you must, remember these tips:

1. Do Not Take Vivarin. This has got to be the world’s stupidest drug. The dosage of caffeine is concentrated—more so than in coffee or Coke—and it is not a liquid, so your body will feel the effect longer, rather than naturally getting rid of the drug. If you are not accustomed to caffeine, this drug is particularly bad. You will be bouncing off the walls. If you try to take this drug to stay awake studying, you will discover that you can’t concentrate at all. Your hands will start to shake, your heart will race, and you won’t be able to sit still for longer than a couple of minutes. When the drug finally begins to wear off, you’ll get a horrible headache. Then, by morning, you'll be drained—the worst condition for taking a test.

2. A cup of coffee or one Coke will suffice. This amount of caffeine will help you feel alert without feeling hyper, and you will not be tired in the long run. Do not drink two or three cups of coffee or Cokes in a row with the idea that you will be “really awake.” This will have the same effects as Vivarin. If, an hour or so after you drink the initial cup, then it is okay to go ahead and drink more. But if you’re not feeling tired, stop!

3. Do not take other drugs with caffeine. If you are on medication, ask your doctor about how caffeine reacts with your medication. This is common sense, but many overlook it and get sick as a result.

That’s about it. Try to get your work done ahead of time, if you can. If you are going to stay up late, it should be partying, not studying.

Write For Campus Living! Leigh McKeever or May Martin for Details.