10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

Campus Living

Looking For A Bargain Breakfast?
By Meredith Boone

For the past three years, Coffeehouse has been providing an opportunity for students, faculty, and staff to mingle while they
partake of breakfast food at bargain prices. Each Tuesday morning from 8:30 to 11:00 in the 900 Room, the Union
offers coffee, juice, tea, and doughnuts for 10 cents apiece. While Coffeehouse will occasionally seek variety by featuring muffins, croissants,
or bagels, doughnuts are the staple menu item.

Three years ago, in response to student complaints about the increasing decentralization of Davidson, the Union Board conceived of Coffeehouse
as a way for the college to remain in contact. Currently, many Davidsonians do enjoy Coffeehouse, as the Union typically
goes through 36 dozen doughnuts every Tuesday. However, many people, especially freshmen, aren’t aware of this Union-subsidized social and eating
event. As Junior Ann Todd said, “I wish someone had clued me in to Coffeehouse when I was a freshman.
It took me an entire semester to figure it out. You buy two six packs of Coke on your meal
card in the Cafe, and then go spend 30 cents on two doughnuts and a glass of orange juice. What
a bargain!”

Currently, tapes are played during Coffeehouse, but the Union hopes to eventually have student musicians provide the entertainment. Anyone interested
in performing or who has suggestions for future food features should contact Missy Anderson or Julie Dixon, the Chairs of
the 900 Room committee. So, be sure to stop by the 900 Room tomorrow morning between your classes and grab
some sustenance to help you make it through the day. It’s a great chance to listen to music, mingle with
friends, and eat great food at discounted prices. What more could a Davidson student want?

Liz Said, Dair Said...
To Diet Or Not To Diet? That Is The Question

Liz said... DIETS RARELY WORK. Ask Oprah Winfrey. Ask anyone who thinks they are overweight. They will tell you how
many times they have tried to diet, all the different diets they have tried, and most importantly, how many pounds
they have gained back. People who go on diets remind me of people who cram for tests, but do none
of the reading beforehand and miss a lot of class. They are always amazed when they don’t get the grade
they had hoped for. Liquid diets, special programs, and low-calorie food are a lot like cramming. If you starve yourself
for a few weeks, you will lose weight. But don’t be shocked when you gain it back. Just as a
night of cramming can’t make up for a whole semester of studying, a few weeks of dieting can’t make up
for a whole lifetime of eating wrong.

There is an intrinsic difference between how fat people and thin people eat. People always say things like, “I have
gland problems or a low metabolism. My roommate eats all day and doesn’t gain a pound. I eat half what
he does, and I gain weight.” First of all, a very, very small percentage of the population has gland problems.
As for a low metabolism, that might be a contributing factor, but not all people with low metabolisms are fat.
The reason thin people eat and don’t gain weight is because they eat right. If you are overweight, don’t “go
on a diet”; change your eating habits. Start eating like the thin person you want to become. Thin people eat
only when they are hungry. For the thin person, eating is a biological function that satisfies hunger. The thin person
enjoys eating, but realizes that there is a time to eat and a time not to eat. Even sitting at
a dinner table, you can tell the difference between someone who eats right and someone who does not. Someone who
eats right stops when they are full. Every time you stop yourself, you’re a step closer to developing good eating
habits. People who overeat often lose their ability to gauge their own hunger. They know they want the food, but
they have no idea whether they need it or not. This is why changing bad eating habits is hard.

Balloonists Take To The Air In The Statesville Balloon Rally
By Richard Wharton

The Eighteenth Annual National Balloon Rally took place this weekend at the Statesville Municipal Airport in front of an estimated
50,000 spectators from all around the Carolinas. Over 100 hot-air balloons from around the country participated in the event, held
for the D.A.R.E. to keep kids off drugs charity fund-raiser.

The festivities began on Friday evening when wind conditions became favorable enough for a mass-ascension from the airport. All balloons
inflated on each side of the runway, making a “Balloon Canal” that, once launched, filled the skies with all types
of colors and designs. The balloons lifted at random and flew in the direction of the setting sun before setting
down in nearby fields to pack up for Saturday’s events.

Saturday morning began with a CNT, or Course and Navigational Trajectory competition. For this type of contest, a telephone pole
is placed at the apex of the two runways with a ring keychain on top of it. A 30-foot X
is then placed around the pole. Balloonists then use their navigational skills (and a little luck) to leave the airport,
find a direct path toward the marker, and launch, hoping that the winds will take them directly over the X.
If they are successful, they can either try for the key ring, which contains a set of keys to a
new car, or drop a baggie attached to a streamer to get as close to the X as possible. Points
and awards are given for cumulative and individual competitions.

On Saturday evening, the balloonists flew in what is called the “Hare and Hound” competition. One balloon, being the hare,
lifts off and the other...Balloonists, after a short period of time, launch after the “Hare.” The “Hare,” once it lands,
lays out an X on the ground, and it is the job of the balloonists to subsequently drop their baggies
as close to the X as possible. This requires exact timing and knowledge of the winds, as even the slightest
change in wind or altitude can send a balloon off course. Sunday morning ended the competition with half the balloons
launching out of the Airport for a “Hare and Hound” and the other half coming into the airport for a
CNT competition. Spectators were thus able to observe the full complement of balloons in the sky at one time. For
many, it was an unforgettable sight.

Ballooning has been around since the time of the sixteenth century when the Montgolfier Brothers designed balloons in France. Though
modern ballooning is inherently safe, in those days, landing balloons were thought to be smoking dragons landing in their fields.
Scared and confused, they attacked these balloons in order to kill them. In order to end such confusion, the brothers
began to take along champagne in order to appease their public. This tradition has been followed as balloonists maintain their
values of “Champagne and Propane--Breakfast of Balloonists!” Several Davidson students participated in this weekend’s rally, working as assistant launch directors,
in order to gain their first involvement in the sport. Balloons and their pilots are great entertainment.

See "Balloons" on page 12.

---

I was eating. It became second nature for me to eat whenever food was around. When my clothes started to
get too small, and I realized I was embarrassed to wear a bathing suit in front of anyone, I decided
to be more careful about what I ate. I didn’t go on any special diet, but lost the weight and
I kept it off. Now, eating seems as natural and easy to me as brushing my teeth or taking a
shower. I don’t deprive or indulge myself, and my weight remains pretty constant. If you are overweight, don’t be discouraged.
True, diets don’t work. But eating correctly does. Once you’ve mastered this, you will stay thin forever.

Thin people also do not eat excessively when they are upset or stressed out. They do not head for the
refreshment table at parties so that they will have something to do. When food is in the room, they do
not feel compelled to eat it, any more than you would feel compelled to go to the bathroom if there
was a toilet in front of you. In the beginning, changing your eating habits involves self-discipline. People constantly justify over-eating
by saying, “What will two brownies hurt?” or “I’ll starve myself tomorrow.” It is not the actual brownies that make
the difference. It is the eating habit. Every time you let yourself overeat, it gets easier to do again. Every
time you grab something to eat, you have to consciously ask yourself, “Am I hungry? Do I need to be
eating this?” If you aren’t sure, put the food back. Wait a while. Eventually, you will honestly feel hungry. This
process of forcing yourself not to overeat is tedious at first. I know. I gained a lot of weight my
sophomore year of high school because I got into the habit of eating whenever I was bored (and I was
bored a lot). I began to realize that I hardly even noticed I was eating.

Hunger is your body’s way of telling you it needs to be fed. Following your body’s natural cues is a
lot more effective than drinking artificial protein shakes.

---

Dair said... Okay, so once you've got the technique down you’ve got to decide what to eat. That’s my half
of the deal this week. You’ve heard about the four food groups since your embryonic stage so I won’t go
on about how each one of them attributes to your overall well-being. Alright, alright...so I’m half lying. What did you
expect? Snickers bars and Dr. Pepper?!

The number one point to remember is this: variety. And we’re not talking about switching from Little Debbie Swiss Cakes
to Moon Pies. You need to keep in mind this general plan when you’re deciding on what to grab next.
Even if you stay with just a very vague, general running idea of what nutrients you’ve already had and what
you still need to keep your energy up, you’re doing well.

Six servings of breads—whole wheat, brown rice, corn, potatoes (they’ll do the trick), pasta, cereals (excluding granola which is oily)
are the best. White bread has nothing intrinsically wrong with it, but it often keeps people from having the more
nutritious variety of breads and white bread itself is a refined food that contains significantly less fiber. Bagels are awesome.

Five servings of fruits and vegetables—once again, the idea here is variety. As much as you possibly can (and I
realize how limited the fruit is at most of the places available to us) try to eat different kinds of
fruits. Bananas don’t give you the same vitamins apples do. Even though apples may be good for fibrous pectin, it’s
not going to do a lot for your potassium levels. However, if you are planning to sit down and have
more than one piece of fruit at a time (like this ever happens here) keep the fruits in the same
family, so to speak.

See "Health" on page 12.
