Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXII MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991 NUMBER 13

Alert Students Chase Thieves

By Sean Lind

Last Thursday, January 17, at 11:30 P.M., Barry Grow '91 and Sam Adams '93 noticed two non-Davidsonians walking around the second floor of E. H. Little Library. They didn’t think much of the two until, approximately five minutes later, Emily Hines '92 told them she was missing forty-odd dollars from her backpack and asked if they had seen anyone suspicious. Grow and Adams, suspecting the two strangers, immediately attempted to locate them in the library. They confronted the young men on the first floor and asked what they were doing in the library. The two suspects claimed to be North Mecklenburg high school students waiting to meet a tutor. Upon further questioning, however, their alibi became flimsy. Grow and Adams succeeded in detaining the young men while Helen Bell '91 contacted the campus police on the library phone. Grow and Adams also got the students to empty their pockets but found no obviously stolen property. Their wallets, however, were “loaded” with money.

Update: Davidson Alumni

The two young men were detained for as long as possible, approximately ten minutes, but eventually, they were able to find an excuse to leave the library. The Davidson patrolman had still not arrived on the scene. Once outside the library, the suspects began sprinting towards Jackson Court. Now fairly sure they had the right men, Grow and Adams gave pursuit but arrived too late to stop the suspects from speeding off in a black Mazda truck. Adams was, however, able to take down part of the license number before the thieves turned off their lights. Eventually, Officer Davis arrived on the scene and took down a description of the two suspects. Not satisfied, Grow and Adams drove around the neighborhood, searching for the truck. They finally located it, engine still warm, behind Davidson Elementary School on Kafey Street. On Saturday, Adams relayed these findings to the police.

According to Assistant Director of Public Safety Rick Moore, no one has yet been charged for the thefts. The campus police do, however, have definite suspects, and the investigation is continuing. One of the main problems, however, is that the college police only have jurisdiction on the campus itself. They cannot investigate off-campus sites. When asked if the incidence of theft on campus is becoming a frequent problem, Director Moore said, “It’s not increasing. It’s a continuous problem.” Sporadic incidents have been reported in the library, Chambers, and the Union. Since the incident, campus police have stepped up security in the library. An officer periodically patrols the building, hoping to prevent any further thefts. Although the increased security may help, one of the best ways to prevent crime, said Moore, is for students to realize that there is a problem. “Do not leave valuables in backpacks or coats unattended,” he said. While Davidson students are bound by the Honor Code, other visitors on campus are not. If anyone has information concerning these or other incidents, please contact the campus police at x2178.

Caught In Desert Storm

By John Wilson

As Operation Desert Storm escalates, so does the involvement of many Davidson graduates. There are several alumni participating to some degree in the Middle East. Chaplain J.B. McCoy III, '63, serves in the 82nd Airborne with over sixteen years of military experience. Mrs. McCoy comments on her husband’s actions: “My husband cannot fight but is there to provide any religious assistance... He tells me that along with the increase in attendance at chapel, morale is high.” Concerning the issue of protests against the war, Mrs. McCoy said, “The purpose of us fighting is for the freedom to protest... The protesting is different from the Vietnam era. Then the protesting was against the war and the soldiers, now it only revolves around the war.” Mrs. Norwood, whose husband, Thomas, graduated in 1970, stated that once the war began: “I was relieved... but then I couldn’t seem to justify my emotions. As the war went on and as I saw the destruction from the bombing, it hit me. I turned off the T.V... To be honest I try not to deal or philosophize with any of...the issues any more. It is a luxury I cannot afford to deal with at this time.” Captain M. Thomas Norwood flies in the 77th Air Refueling Squadron. Mrs. Norwood explained what her husband told her on the first night of fighting: “He was far enough that he could see the effects of the fighting on the ground and still feel safe.” Mrs. Norwood also said, “I grew up in a liberal family, so when the war started it seemed to give my perception more color.”

One aspect that appears to color this war is its dependence upon advanced technology. Mrs. H.C. Patterson said, “My husband and I talk frequently considering he is close to the front.” Her husband, H.C. Patterson, M.D., is in the Medical Reserves. “He works in a hospital in Saudi Arabia. I have found that when one enters the reserves and then is sent over, the family has to sacrifice socially and financially... In the future the interest to sign up in the

Continued on Page 2

Speech Recalls Gantt Campaign
By Terry Hines

Melvin Watt, a Charlotte lawyer and former campaign manager for Harvey Gantt, closed out ceremonies commemorating Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., with a speech during Tuesday’s 11th Hour service. Watt reflected on his weekly visits to Davidson as a child in the 50s, when he served as a shoe shine boy in his uncle Norton’s barbershop. He disclosed to the small crowd gathered in Lingle Chapel that he remembered three things about those visits: he couldn’t get shoe polish on the white socks of Davidson students; his aunt always made him eat spinach; and his uncle had to pull down the blinds and lock the door of the barbershop in order to give him a haircut.

“Looking back,” Watt surmised, “I don’t know which of the three I hated the worst. I had no context against which I could view the third recollection.” That was then. Today Watt sees his anecdote as an indication of how far the nation has come in dealing with race relations and how much further we have, as a coun-

Continued on Page 2

Coach McKillop gives freshmen Pat Holloway a few tips. The Wildcats went 0-2 against top twenty teams Virginia and South Carolina last week. See Sports. Photo by Beth Pharr

NCAA Changes May Affect Davidson
By Kristi Kessler, Lisa LeNard, J.B. Stroud in assoc. with CPS

Reformers carried the day at the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) convention in Memphis, Tenn., forcing through a raft of changes that critics say may or may not ease some of the problems afflicting big-time college sports. Several of these reforms could have a profound impact upon the future of Division I athletics here at Davidson.

Among other reforms, representatives voted overwhelmingly to:
* Force schools to cut the number of coaches on staff.
* Slash the number of scholarships by 10 percent in each sport.
* Try to ease the isolation of athletes by eliminating athlete-only dorms.
* Require academic counseling for all athletes recruited at Division I schools.
* Shorten practice time and playing seasons so athletes will have more time for their studies.
* Spend more on women’s sports and men’s sports other than football and basketball.

Due to the NCAA convention, the college community has expressed much concern regarding Davidson’s maintaining Division I status. At this time, no decisions have been made and it does not appear that the results of the convention will require Davidson to leave Division I. The following legislative acts seem to have the greatest potential for affecting Davidson:
* 100 percent of all contests must fulfill Division I sponsorship requirements, and at least 50 percent of all contests must be against Division I opponents. Currently, baseball, basketball, men’s soccer, men’s and women’s tennis, and volleyball meet this requirement. We will have to add more Division I schools to the schedules of three additional men’s teams and all of the women’s teams to meet this

Continued on Page 2

* Require Division I schools to

INSIDE
News
Could Iraq Be Another Viet Nam? Page 2

Opinions
Willard Talks About Rebel Flag. Page 7.

Campus Living
Thompson Says JYA Focus on Kenya. Page 7.

Shoot the Healthy. Page 11.

Rob Kelley Goes Bowling Mooresville. Page 11.

First Class Mail
Davidson, N.C. 28036