14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

Vince Lombardi said, “Winning isn’t everything; it’s the only thing.” And he was right, winning is the only thing when
it comes to getting fan support. Everything I’ve just said goes against the principles someone has been trying to instill
in us at Davidson, but I’m afraid it’s the truth. The good thing is though, that recently a lot of
the Wildcat teams have been winning, and the fans have been coming out in bigger numbers than any other time
during my four years here.

I don’t want to seem unsportsmanlike or suggest that fans shouldn’t support a team just because they don’t win --
we should support all our teams. Unfortunately, the average fan isn’t loyal enough to go out of his way to
see a team he thinks is going to lose. When I came here as a freshman, my decision to attend
Davidson was partly influenced by what I had heard on my tour at Williams. Someone’s mother asked if the students
went to the football games. The tour guide replied, “After a hard week at the library, going down to the
stadium and watching 22 cro-magnons bash their heads together is a good release.” The thought of spending four years with
a bunch of George Will pretenders sitting around looking at the poetic side of sports sent me here to Davidson.

Much to my dismay, besides the first half of the first home game and the first half of the homecoming
game, there was almost no fan support for the football team. They weren’t winning. Basketball games drew better crowds, but
not by much. Only about 100 students made the effort to attend the game with cross-county rival UNCC. It is
possible that the imminent change of athletic directors and the absence of Southern Conference rivalries made sporting events less appealing
to most students, but I think it may have had something more to do with low numbers in the win
column.

Then, on December 1, 1989, things started to change. I’m talking about Terry Holland’s return to town and the opening
of the Baker Sports Complex. I am going to mark this as the beginning of the return of optimism to
Davidson Athletics. Students seemed to enjoy going to the games at Baker, even though the team was losing. I am
not trying to give too much credit to Holland or a building, but it was a turning point. The real
credit goes to the coaches and athletes. Through their extraordinary efforts, they have made sports fun for the students again.
Dave Fagg’s unflagging optimism in the face of so much doubt last year, and the incredible fan support the football
team got is testament to my assertion. Winning draws fans. The field hockey team’s Deep South championship last year, the
soccer team’s national ranking last year, and men’s tennis coach Jeff Frank’s 17 consecutive winning seasons have all increased interest
in Davidson athletics as a whole.

Fifty die-hard football fans responded to Pat Millen’s challenge to go to the Guilford game on September 14. I don’t
know of anyone who went to an away football game my freshman year. Fans traveled to Columbia for the soccer
game against South Carolina last Sunday and to Chapel Hill for the soccer game against UNC on Wednesday. I hope
that no matter what the record of any of the Wildcat teams is, the fans will continue to recognize the
efforts of the athletes. Good crowds make sports fun for everyone. I’ll see you at the soccer game.

Chapman Defies the Odds By Bruce Page Part 1

Charlotte orthopedic surgeon who also...

Women’s Soccer Thrashes Guilford By B’easy Helms

The Davidson women’s soccer team opened its season Tuesday in search of an upset against Elon, a highly-ranked NAIA program.
The Fighting Christians proved to be tough competition, though, as the Wildcats lost by a 4-0 score. Despite intense defense
by sweeper Jenny Satterfield and the aggressiveness of Ann Todd, Susan Taylor, and Annie Adams in the midfield, the “Cats
could not stop the Elon attack. Up front, Liz Clarke, Sarah Cantrell, and Ellen Sprinkle felt frustrated, as the play
only reached their offensive part of the field a few times. Elon beat the ‘Cats with their ability to take
balls out of the air and immediately put them into play.

Only a day later, the Wildcats gained their first win of the season, 5-0 against Guilford. The Quakers were virtually
beaten after Ellen Sprinkle scored off a deflected shot by Liz Clarke early in the first half. Soon after, Sarah
Cantrell knocked down the ball, enabling Jenny Satterfield to score off an Annie Adams’ corner kick. Late in the first
half, beautiful teamwork down the middle of the field by Sally Graham and Ann Todd produced a goal by Todd
and a 3-0 halftime lead. In the second half, Sally Graham passed back the ball for...

Stands Tall at 7-3 By Bruce Balestier

The week began with the Piccadeli Volleyball Classic at ASU in Boone. The ‘Cats there dispatched of East Carolina (15-11,
13-15, 15-12, 17-15) and Big South opponent Winthrop (15-10, 15-7, 15-8) before falling in their final contest to Appalachian State
of the Southern Conference in 5 hard-fought games (15-13, 13-15, 16-14...12-15, 8-15). Sophomore middle blocker Katherine Anderson was selected to
the All-Tournament team at ASU. The Wildcats returned home to Belk Arena Tuesday evening to face Catawba and turned in
an inconsistent performance. They thoroughly befuddled the Indians in the opening game, baking them a 15-0 doughnut, and seemed well
on their way to a convincing three-game sweep. Instead, Catawba took a 9-2 lead in the second game and coasted
to a 15-9 win over the suddenly error-prone ‘Cats. Freshman setter Lorie Logan was the catalyst in Davidson’s 15-5 win
in game three; she gave Holt Hathaway a breather with Davidson leading 6-5, and sparked the team to nine consecutive
points to close out the game. The Wildcats turned in a rather shoddy effort in the final game but managed
to polish off the Indians, 15-12.

Thursday night, the team traveled to Coastal College. Are you aware of what Dominos means to Davidson athletics? Dominos is
currently the only pizza franchise at Exit 28 that sponsors Davidson athletics. Dominos responded enthusiastically. The sponsorship that Dominos provides
for Davidson is significant. Our teams cannot be successful without this support. For that reason, we like to consider Davidson
to be a Dominos school. Dominos is the only franchise of any kind that can deliver on campus.

In high school, Mac Chapman was an all-star. And after batting .500 during his senior season and being named first
team All-State in Maryland, his long-time aspiration of playing major-league baseball seemed a very real possibility. His outstanding freshman season
at Davidson only strengthened his hope. On October 31 of his sophomore year at Davidson, however, those dreams were put
on hold, and Chapman had to think about just walking again. Just after noon that day, Chapman was driving his
motorcycle from his off-campus room on Concord Rd. toward campus when he was hit head-on by an oncoming car, blacked
out, and regained consciousness 80 feet from the site of the collision. Chapman’s left leg had been totally mangled; his
thigh bone was broken, as were his tibia and fibula. Worse yet, every bone in his foot was crushed, dislocated,
or broken, and part of his ankle was completely dislodged from his foot. The surgeons’ first reaction was to seriously
consider amputation. But under the supervision of Dr. Basil Boyd, who cares for Davidson athletes, Chapman underwent extensive reconstructive surgery
on his leg and foot. After the surgery, he had a 14-inch steel rod driven into his thigh bone and
7 pins inserted to hold his foot together. The doctors told Chapman that while he probably would walk again, his
chances of playing baseball again were slim. The doctors told him that there would be pain and possibly arthritis if
he even tried to play again competitively. Chapman decided it was a risk worth taking and began to undergo difficult
rehabilitation in the hopes of regaining strength, mobility, and flexibility. The painful and arduous became the routine for him. Months
later, Chapman is no longer in clinical rehabilitation but still maintains a steady personal training program. He says of his
chances, “I’ve still got a lot of proving to do.... A lot of people kind of counted me out.” See
part 2 of this story in next week’s Davidsonian.

Sincerely,
S.G. Millen
Director of Athletics Marketing

An Open Letter To All Davidson Students Who Eat Pizza (And That Should Be Just About All Of You)

In a lot of ways, pizza is pizza. It is all pretty good. Are you aware, however, of what your
business as Davidson College students means to a pizza parlor? At Exit 28 in Cornelius, you represent close to a
third of the revenues at each of the pizza shops. They should work hard for your loyalty. Dominos is the
only pizza franchise at Exit 28 that sponsors Davidson athletics (We asked them all). Dominos is currently the only franchise
of any kind that can deliver on campus. Please consider giving your business to our Davidson College athletic sponsors. If
you want to order pizza for your dorm, call Eddie at 896-8007. If you think of it, please take the
time to thank them for supporting Davidson athletics.

Anne Wampler scored about 30 yards out from the goal. The ‘Cats closed the scoring with only a few minutes
left in the game when Elizabeth MacDonald found the net with a beautiful header off a perfectly placed corner kick
by Amy Hoffheimer. Coach Kevin Hundley expressed his pleasure at the team’s improvement. “Both games this week gave us a
chance to see where we are at this point in the season,” he said. “Closing the gap from 7-0 to
4-0 in the Elon game from two years ago and beating Guilford so convincingly shows that we have taken a
step in the right direction.” The Wildcats’ next home game is September 25 against Duke.

Volleyball Tops Furman

The team traveled to Greenville, S.C. to meet future Southern Conference foe Furman and emerged victorious in four games, 15-8,
6-15, 15-9, 15-10. Hathaway’s 39 assists, Mimi Plauche’s 20 kills, and Amy Howard’s 12 digs led the Davidson effort. Over
the weekend at the VCU Tournament in Richmond, the ‘Cats split their four games. Friday night, they made short work
of Howard in a 3-0 win but were beaten handily by Temple, 3-0. Saturday evening Davidson pounded Loyola 3-0 but
fell in 5 games to tournament host Virginia Commonwealth.
