THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991 13

Review / Theatre

The Two Gentlemen of Verona: “Spaghetti Western Meets Ringling Brothers"

By David Thompson

On Thursday, January 24, The Acting Company presented their “Spaghetti Western meets the Ringling Brothers” version of The Two Gentlemen of Verona. In the hands of The Acting Company, Two Gentlemen, one of Shakespeare’s earlier and less respected comedies, becomes a wonderful farce which lampoons not only the flighty nature of youthful infatuation but also several conventions of the singing cowboy film genre. Charles Newell’s imaginative and charged direction lends Two Gentlemen a contemporary feel which makes the play pertinent and fun not only for students of Shakespeare, but for anyone who enjoys the theater or just likes a good laugh.

From the very opening moments, we see that The Acting Company does not offer a conventional rendition. Protagonists Valentine and Proteus (played by Laurence Drozd and William D. Michie, respectively) discuss their feelings about love in what seems to be an urban health club. From this odd start, the scene changes continuously - from a 1950s style beauty salon to a saloon of the wild west to the bathroom of the Duke of Milan (presented here as the Marshall of “Millen”). The ingenious staging and blocking by Newell and movement director Jim Calder make these shifts both plausible and hilarious with only minor alterations to the actual set.

Costume Director Catherine Zuber outfits the supporting players in circus clown suits, while the lead actors are dressed as if an epidemic of Saturday Night Fever were rampant at the OK Corral. Correctly banished from this production are any of the oft-considered “traditionally Shakespearean” costumes such as leotards and codpieces. The comedic timeliness of the costumes helps to dissipate any apprehensions the audience might have about Shakespeare’s humor being anachronistic. The performers of The Acting Company...

NOLS Continued from Page 10

...it was the longest flight I had ever been on. Upon arriving at NOLS in Lander, I found that 15 other people - four women and 11 men - were just as scared as myself. We all looked around at our first meeting as a whole group that night and made the dreadful realization that we were about to spend the next three months together.

Two days later we embarked on our first of five sections, beginning with twenty-five days of backpacking in the Wind River Wilderness Range in central western Wyoming. The second and third sections were spent rock climbing: in the Black Hills of South Dakota and in Devil’s Tower, Wyoming. Caving, the fourth section, was quite an experience in itself. It’s a lot like going underground and running around in a playground for six to eight hours. We caved at Wind Cave and Jewel Cave, both limestone formation caves on the perimeter of the Black Hills. This is really one of the most interesting sections of the NOLS semester, even if it’s not the most fun for some. Personally, I really enjoyed it because caving is just about the only sport where one explores places where no person has ever gone before. Both caves we went into have over fifty miles of explored passageways, and on average, three to four miles of new passageway are discovered each year, generally by the National Park Service, but also by NOLS students and instructors every so often. But, after twelve days, we returned once again to Lander.

Eighteen days of backpacking in the desert and canyon lands were the next highlight of the course. A “loving” family of coyotes that trailed our group through the whole section would howl us to sleep every night, which added to the mystery that’s inherent in any desert trip. The November days, normally cold and rainy for me at Davidson, were marked by beautiful seventy-degree weather and sunshine followed by bitterly cold nights typical of the desert, and... Thanksgiving. We spent our Thanksgiving walking fourteen miles in search of water. Needless to say, even though I was in good shape by this point, I hated the entire day because fourteen miles in one day is a very long day. Yet, when the sun began to set while we were still hiking, all of my time at NOLS was justified...

Barringer Continued from Page 10

...to her poetry, it is her family that inspires her. “My husband inspires me to take whatever skills I have and build on them. He is my inspiration.” As the mother of six, her children often serve as the subject of her poetry. Family is of utmost importance to Barringer, and the qualities of love, caring, and joy she fosters in them carry over into her poetry. Currently, Barringer is interested in taking a writing course from a local college to help polish her talents. One day she envisions publishing...a book of her poetry collection, but she wants to “do it in the right way” by building up to that level. Until then, Barringer will continue caring and conversing—the two main components of her poetry. © Company are of the highest caliber. These people are funny in and of themselves: their smiles, their gestures, and their incredible animation perfectly suit this sort of farce. One cannot doubt for even the slightest fraction of a second that the actors are having an absolute blast with their roles. Rainn Wilson, as Speed, comes across as especially euphoric. I smiled as I curled up in my sleeping bag and thought of how all of my family and friends were probably passing out after gorging themselves at Thanksgiving dinner, and here I was, passing out from exhaustion after my Thanksgiving dinner of instant mashed potatoes and hot cocoa. I think it was the first time I had ever earnestly given thanks for anything—the fact that I was alive and enjoying the beauty of all that was around me. Our final section, winter camping and cross-country skiing, was nothing but sheer hell for this Southern boy not used to feet upon feet of snow. Twelve days spent in the Absaroka Mountain Range sleeping in grinzhees, snow shelters, in below-zero weather—so cold I wanted to cry every morning when I had to get out of my sleeping bag. I guess that the overall statement of this article is that if you want to do something that will be one of the greatest experiences in your life, try NOLS. Talk to me or my friend, Andrew Peercy, if you want to find out more, because he just did a NOLS semester in the Southwest. Well, if you’ve now made it through this whole article in one sitting, thank you for letting me ramble off my fond memories of my semester. Later!

The Flute sounds loud, But yet so gracefully. With a good melody. “Songs of cheer,” Thus says the Flute “cry out with joy.” Continue to go far and near. Love it sends to one and all Surrounding the heart that enters the melody. Peace. How sweet the sound.

In their production of Romeo and Juliet, these same players seem forced to grind out expressions of overwhelming grief and sadness; but in Two Gentlemen, the entire company is in truly fine form. Particularly worthy of note for their outstanding comedic presence are Diana LaMar, Laurence Drozd, and William D. Michie. LaMar’s Julia in Two Gentlemen is an angst-ridden riot. LaMar convinces us of Julia’s pain while brilliantly pulling off a series of well-constructed gags. Laurence Drozd, as Valentine, also contributes a performance well. His exaggerated mime while holding the reins of an unseen, unruly horse works well both as physical humor and as an attack on the silliness of exaggerated mime itself. While professing his love for the forbidden Silvia in song, Drozd’s Valentine becomes the cheesiest of Ramada Inn-esque lounge singers, complete with the neon smile, and is a delight to watch, stocked with high-spirited camp. The finest performance, however, is delivered by Mr. Michie. In both Two Gentlemen as Proteus and Romeo and Juliet as Mercutio, Michie brings to his roles an antagonistic intensity which nearly frightens as it entertains. His declaration of his love for Silvia, and his willingness to betray his best friend, Valentine, is blurted out in a ripple-soaked frenzy, and is dreadfully reminiscent of similar statements made late at night in the parking lot of The Korner Pub. Michie’s presentation imparts to the audience the violent immaturity of Proteus’ infatuation. The most interesting aspect of this production, however, is Newell’s handling of the controversial final scene, in which Valentine expresses his forgiveness of Proteus by awarding him Silvia, the near victim of the fickle villain’s attempted rape. By carefully manipulating Drozd’s inflection, Newell clarifies most of the scene’s ambiguity, and makes the cheerful resolution comical and, more importantly, credible.

By Joy Hord

This is a new article that will (hopefully) provide a way to let the community know of the wonderful plans we have for the coming year and hope to transform into reality. All students on the committee chair position. Union Board News is a young minority entrepreneur who will come to speak about her knowledge of the business world and her experiences. She is being brought to the Committee and will be speaking at Eleventh Hour in the Morrison Room on Thursday. Pike’s own Jazz Ensemble will be featured in the 900 Room starting this fall.

The Flute sounds loud, But yet so gracefully. With a good melody. “Songs of cheer,” Thus says the Flute “cry out with joy.” Continue to go far and near. Love it sends to one and all Surrounding the heart that enters the melody. Peace. How sweet the sound.

Read The Davidsonian.