THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

Davidson Sports

Charlotte's Gallery Crawl: Friday's Artistic Alternative

By Jim Carswell

Every weekend at Davidson, students are barraged with a myriad of evening entertainment possibilities. One might immerse oneself in two
of the greatest American forms of expression by visiting Cathy’s and Little Caesar’s and returning to the privacy of a
VCR-equipped dorm room. Or how about reveling in the Bacchanalian and sweaty delights of a Court or hall party? For
the faint of heart, there is always pleasure to be gleaned from reading next week’s assignment in that eerily engrossing
History of Numerology course. The list goes on...

But this Friday, and the first Friday of every month, one can very easily and inexpensively break the routine by
visiting Charlotte for the Gallery Crawl at Spirit Square. Held at six uptown Charlotte galleries surrounding the corner of Seventh
and Tryon Streets, the event proposes to promote the visual arts in the Carolinas’ most progressive city. The atmosphere is
cool, the art varied, and the price free, so head down there this weekend. All of the galleries are open,
and each presents its own particular offering. Wine is the accompaniment to local artists’ works at the Hodges Taylor and
Grosse Galleries, and Spirit Square serves hors d’oeuvres with its exhibits of locals and a changing featured artist, Linda Kroft
this week. Admirers of Paul Rousso’s work will enjoy his gallery, while devotees of New York artists will want to
visit the Jerald Merberg Gallery. The Artesino usually presents an interesting mix of local and various other artists. And the
crowd often varies as much as the art. But the wandering college student blends just as well with the uptown
Charlotte yuppie as with the long-haired and occasionally nose-ringed member of the avant-garde.

Dead Again: Kenneth Branagh's Latest Film is This Summer's "Must See" Thriller

By David Thompson

Kenneth Branagh’s latest work, Dead Again, testifies to the creativity and daring of this outstanding young filmmaker. After resounding critical
and commercial success with his film adaptation of William Shakespeare’s Henry V, Branagh takes a brave step into the realm
of the mystery thriller. The story, by Scott Frank, is a cunningly crafted tale of love, money, deceit, musical composition,
hypnotic suggestion, jealousy, and reincarnation.

As the film opens, headlines cross the screen touting the arrest, conviction, and execution of composer Roman Strauss (Branagh), for
the murder of his wife, Margaret (Emma Thompson). Only moments later, however, the scene changes to an orphanage in present-day
Los Angeles where a mute, amnesiac woman (Thompson, again) has been found. To her aid comes private investigator Mike Church
(Branagh, again), who attempts to help her discover who she is. With the help of a rather odd antique dealer
with a penchant for hypnotism (Derek Jacobi), the unknown woman explores her subconscious. Strangely enough, the subconscious she explores seems
to be that of Margaret Strauss, the victim of the aforementioned murder. Along with the characters on screen, the audience
spends the remainder of the film wondering who may or may not have killed whom in a past life and
who may or may not wish to enact revenge in this one. It seems...a confusing mixture, and likely would be
without Branagh’s terse direction. With all the bravado of Orson Welles’ Citizen Kane, Dead Again invites the audience to unfold
the plot along with the characters, rather than listen as they tell the story. With the same intensity that one
follows the investigation conducted by the reporter in Kane, a viewer of Dead Again becomes actively engaged in the character
judgments and assumptions which are central to this film. Branagh manipulates his audience with his deft maneuvering of the camera.
A particularly well-handled episode depicts an elevator ride in a municipal mental institution. Branagh’s clinical and unsympathetic photography of the
bizarre acts of the inmates reflects the horrifying coldness with which the guards handle the patients’ outbursts. Branagh tends to
shoot Thompson lovingly, yet without the tiresome devices with which gentle heroines are usually filmed, such as the backlighting of
Glenn Close in The Natural. In the final scene, Branagh’s carefully choreographed melee foments the fear and anticipation of the
audience by injecting a constructed ambiguity regarding the characters' position onscreen. The scene works brilliantly and should prove jarring to
even the most jaded audiences. The film’s greatest assets, however, are the performances rendered by its stars. With a pair
of much-studied accents, Branagh plays the German-born Roman and Californian-bred Mike. His portrayal is compelling and nuanced.

In the mid-80s, young Randy Traywick of Marshville, NC, was living on hard times, keeping himself alive by washing dishes
at the Nashville Palace, a talent club across the street from Opryland U.S.A. It was here that Traywick, who was
the product of a broken home and who had, at times, been in trouble with the law, would be discovered
by Warner Bros. Records. The rest is history. Considering, however, that recently Travis has needed something big to put himself
back on top (given the arrival of Clint Black, Garth Brooks, and Alan Jackson, among others, and George Strait’s refusal
to fade), his most recent career move is mind-boggling. Within the past year, Travis has added to his writing credits
more than ever; and Alan Jackson, who has toured with Travis and who is one of today's top stars, has
released only three songs (compared to Garth Brooks’ five). Heroes and Friends, his fifth album, was a nice collection and
the local “art scene.” And, while the Gallery Crawl does at times exude the air of a purely social event,
the feeling that these people are simply there to enjoy art pervades as well. It truly is a break from
the atmosphere of a dorm room or party. So, if you are bored with the regular scene around here, or
just want an intellectual and artistic prelude to your normal Friday night festivities, try the Gallery Crawl in Charlotte. To
make it even easier, the Union Gallery Committee runs a bus service there and back. For reservations, call Stewart Lathan
at -6813. Or if you are on your own, go south on I-77 until you reach the Brookshire Freeway. Exit
there and head east, getting off at the Tryon Street exit. Turn right and drive until you hit Seventh Street.
The art is centered around that corner. Parking is free on College Street, and it lasts from 6 until 8
p.m.
