THE DAVIDPHONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991

Yet Another Article About Rape at Davidson

It seems these days that you can’t sit down to dinner without having to listen to someone complaining about rape,
acquaintance rape, sexual assault, etc. So far, however, coverage of the rape issue has been very biased; the Davidsonian has
published only ultra-liberal anti-rape articles. It’s high time that the voice of reason had a chance to be heard.

We have recently become aware of the existence of the Rape Awareness Committee, a self-styled group of liberals that lectures
eating clubs, freshman halls, and fraternities on the evils of rape at Davidson. This group is promoting a dangerous delusion
- the delusion that rape is somehow unnatural. We believe that they are creating an issue where no issue exists.
Rape is the norm in the animal world and is considered to be a natural part of the reproductive process,
as anyone who has witnessed the wild vigor of animal copulation can attest. Rape is also one of the oldest
known forms of man’s sexual expression. It has existed since the dawn of man and will probably be with us
until the end of civilization. Furthermore, rape has only comparatively recently acquired “crime” status; until the 1980s, for example, mandatory
sex was considered a husband’s marital prerogative, and in the majority of states today, so-called “marital rape” is legal and
cannot be prosecuted. Finally, the fact that most rapists go unreported and unprosecuted suggests that women who are raped are
ambivalent about their experience: is rape really a crime? Or have they brought it on themselves?

As Americans, we applaud our liberal fellow-students’ willingness to exercise their First Amendment rights on this issue. However, Davidson College
is not doing enough to financially and verbally support those of us who feel otherwise about this important topic. The
following proposals suggest some ways in which Davidson College can rethink its attitude and offer institutional support to those who
see sexual assault differently.

1. The word “rape” carries excessively negative connotations. We propose using it interchangeably with “ravishment,” a synonym whose positive connotations
more fairly reflect men’s experience of mandatory sex. “Ravishment” also has the advantage of reflecting the glorious, civilization-founding role mandatory
sex has played in founding Western culture. What would we study in Humanities if Zeus had not raped Europa?

2. Scientists have documented the fact that women fantasize about rape. Isn’t it time we closed the gap between fantasy
and reality? Girls will find that acknowledging their deep-seated desire to be raped will help them develop a more positive
attitude, which may lead to more dates and marriage proposals. Stop fighting it and start enjoying it, girls!

3. It is not enough simply to change our attitudes about sexual violation; we must work to institutionalize rape at
Davidson. We suggest adapting the traditions of hunting (which offers a fine model for regulating a revenue-generating blood sport) to
ravishment:

a. Men should be required to register their biological weapon (according to calibre size) with the Davidson police in order
to qualify for a yearly license (fee: $10). Corresponding color-coded registration stickers should be issued, to be displayed in a
prominent place, and surrendered to the campus police in case of a rules violation.

b. Official seasons should be determined systematically by the breed of the quarry. Fall, for example, should be open raping
season on brunettes and redheads; winter and early spring on freshman girls, and late spring on blondes. The latter girls
(epitomized by the Sports Illustrated swimsuit models) are the most prized since they are the rarest at Davidson, and therefore
only men of correspondingly great calibre-size will be allowed to ravish during the late spring. Minority girls, in accordance with
tradition, will be subject to open rape season.

c. Formal raping facilities should be constructed when necessary. As most students know, Patterson Court provides an ideal environment for
ravishment, but it is high time that the Board of Trustees acknowledged the importance of financing this tradition throughout the
campus. Outdoors, the extensive wooded area behind the baseball field could be designated an official ravishment preserve, as it provides
sufficient brush-cover or “blinds” for ravishers to hide in as they await their quarry. Or the Lake Campus could be
designated as a raping preserve, as it offers more space and natural resources. Half the funds earmarked for erecting lights
around campus should be diverted for the creation of darkened lurking-places. Alternatively, campus lighting plans should be cancelled and the
resultant savings allocated to the construction of a grain alcohol factory near Patterson Court.

d. Girls in season should report to the preserve or be present on campus at all times, but particularly from
noon Friday until noon Sunday. Rapists will be expected to observe a bag limit of five girls per day, which
should suffice to protect the health of the quarries (who will be defiled regularly for four years) and to release
the uncontrollable hormonal energy.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Gies with which Nature has generously endowed Davidson men. Though we recognize the costs of such an undertaking, we stand
convinced that this farsighted policy would greatly improve the quality of student life at Davidson. Abrasive feminist girls, who waste
valuable time and space with their protests against the natural and inevitable, would be too busy being deflowered to write
editorials. Their primary function having been usurped by Davidson girls, will have more time to devote to whatever it is
they study. More important, in developing a positive attitude towards ravishment, girls will have gained back their freedom by casting
off their fear of being “raped.” Police escorts will be obsolete. And Davidson men will no longer have to expend
herculean efforts to re-channel their sexual dynamism. All obstacles having been removed, the sexes at Davidson will be free to
engage in meaningful relationships.

Biology Professor Probes The Freshman Mind!
By Muck C. Raker

In what may develop into a massive scientific and sociological breakthrough, the Davidson College biology department believes it has isolated
an actual neural impulse from the cranial matter of a living freshman organism.

Neural impulses have long been considered tricky entities. Are only physical interactions involved? Or could there be some spiritual side
to the whole business which science will never understand? Disturbing questions such as these left many of the greatest scientific
minds in history, including Sir Isaac Newton and Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., completely befuddled. The impulses of freshman college students
have proven especially problematic. Spiritual? Worth the axons they’re painted on? Only the brave have entered into this delicate field
of study and most of them have gone completely loopy.

Davidson biology professor John Williamson, however (likely smarter, better, more organized, and larger than all who have gone before him),
thinks he has data that could change the way Man thinks about Man. Stated the Man for the Davidsonian, “In
a beaker, in my office, hidden carefully where no mortal would think to look, I possess a neural impulse, pale
brown, limpid and experiencing withdrawal symptoms, from a freshman student at Davidson College. Wow!” Impressed, this reporter decided to pursue
the story in greater depth.

Ten years ago, Williamson and his biological colleagues realized that more neural impulses likely escape at Patterson Court than at
any other locale in Mecklenburg county. This, they construed, would be the best place to begin the quest that could
uplift the study of Biology from glorified Sears catalogue to actual science. After nine years of development work to determine
appropriate costumes and strategy, the unit felt ready to act. Three weeks ago, unknown to the rest of the college
community, Williamson, clad in tie-dye shorts and a shirt made out of cut-up Duckheads, led twelve cohorts to the SAE
house at approximately four in the morning. In a corner, half bobbing in a stagnant puddle of Busch, there squirmed
the Motherload. Acting fast, our hero whipped out his special self-designed Impulse Buster while twelve fawning sycophants shielded him from
the tottering Hod who kindly requested that if they had to shake-the-dew to please use the side of the House.
Rushing back for a late night at the bio lab, the jubilant adventurers immediately commenced to poke, plod, tiddle, and
scan until classes began the next Monday.

Stated Williamson, “We feel on the verge of something big. All of us in the past have felt convulsions of
riotous merriment when we published ten pages of butt-useless pap in some candy-ass scholarly excuse for a Journal that, according
to the experts, someone once flipped through before he died.”

“Understandable,” I stated.

“Now we are on to something big.” Williamson also expressed his glee at some of the potentially practical consequences of
this study.

“That little glob of thought process just sits there and jiggles. In scientific terms, that’s ‘in-bulges and out-bulges,’ and it
has responded negatively to all our tests for sentient activity.”

“Sounds globular,” I offered.

“I feel confident that our present experiments will reveal once and for all how stupid students are, especially freshmen, and
how smart professors are, especially me.”

Paralyzed for a moment in some sort of trance, Williamson failed to notice the freshman pre-med student who wandered into
his office behind. Looking for a place to stick his gum, the young man shuffled over to a green file
cabinet and surreptitiously reached for the vacant space on top. It wasn’t vacant. A glass Peter Pan Peanut Butter jar
with the label peeled off smashed to the floor scattering stinky fluid and brown gooey stuff all over the place.

“Dude!” confirmed the freshman, “I didn’t know you dug electric jello!”

Williamson snapped out of his reverie but too late. He lunged just as the bare-foot aspiring doctor sucked down the
last of the quivering mass.

Yeah, Yeah, we know... This article really isn't much of an opinions piece, but, it's Sunday afternoon, and we have
to go to press, and I have other crap to do, and my feet hurt and I think I'm getting
hemorrhoids (or however the hell you spell it) so leave me alone and read the damn thing again, and laugh,
‘cause it's funny!
