16 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING Monday, AUGUST 19, 1991

By Jim Knowles

“Man, these streets are full of rubble. Somebody oughta clean that s--t up.” These were John Hutton’s famous first words on our initial diurnal expedition into the streets and piazzas of the Imperial City. His comments were aimed at the numerous rows of shattered columns and scatterings of travertine debris that litter Old Rome in the daytime like gum wrappers on God’s own playground, reminding passersby of every creed and nation that there is no escape from the long, slow sweep of Time.

Fifteen Davidson College students and D.C. professor Nina Serebrennikov set up temporary headquarters amidst the cobblestoned chaos of downtown Rome for four months last spring, and we learned to love that rubble, along with whatever each one of us chose to make it represent. Regardless of our sighs and those of a thousand others, the rubble remains.

Tonight I sit in front of the computer at my home in the New World, trying to condense into a few short paragraphs the essence of my past eight months’ experience so that the first issue of this year’s Davidsonian won’t be lacking in juicy stories of Study-Abroad smut and smeg. Alas, I try in vain. We’ve all been through this before. I suppose I could fall back on humorous anecdotes to help me fill these pages—and there are some hum-dingers that I could tell—but I don’t trust my own sense of humor in these matters, much less yours. Nevertheless, the people who made up our little Davidson microcosm in Italy are now enjoying their last week of summer vacation, preparing to reconvene.

Davidson in Cambridge Students Have a Great Summer

By Catherine Milligan

“Over the ocean and through the clouds To Cambridge did we go. With BritRail in hand, we travelled the land Of England -- Tally-ho-oh. . .”

The Davidson in Cambridge program was enhanced with all kinds of harmony this summer. At first, we clung to our Walkmans and tapes from home, depending on them to help us survive the eight-hour plane ride overseas. Little did we realize the melodies that awaited us in England: the echoing sounds of London Underground performers with saxophones or tambourine-style coin bags; the Phantom of the Opera’s sweet and desperate “music of the night”; concert-lectures on 18th-century harpsichords; our own mix tapes as background music for countless spades games in the Wolfson College club room; and those inspiring American songs blaring at our favorite pub on the Fourth of July.

But the finest harmony we found was that of the 28 individuals in our group. Upon arrival, we seemed to be an odd mix. There were 17 girls and 11 guys. Aside from the few small groups of good friends and one firmly attached couple, many of us didn’t know each other at all. But we had similar expectations: to relax, to visit the best parts of the country (and find the best pubs), to be enlightened by Cambridge lecturers and a light workload, and to mix with people from Davidson and from all over the world. Our wishes were easily fulfilled, and we finished the six weeks with new friends who would stand by us despite the fact that we left with pale skin, extra body pounds, and negative sterling pounds. So you get the idea: we bonded.

How about a rundown of the trip? Now if it’s juicy details you’re after, you’ll have to consult individuals. Be sure to ask Mary Russ and Meg Davis about their Italian friend Franco and his leather factory. Stephanie Glaser, Andy Schraeder, and Liz Clarke have good stories about punting on and swimming in the Cam. Robert Rostan or M. E. Coley might tell you about “dipping” into Wordsworth at the Lake District. Thos Rostan and I can recap our experience with a “Turkish Surprise.” Meg Barron and Cliff Castelloe are experts on securing plane tickets for the flight home. Stephen Lilly can answer ANY questions you have about wine, and Peter Krentz (our awesome faculty companion) can explain the best way to spend money left over from tea-time.

There are plenty of great stories to spice up a response to that generic question “how was your summer?” But, as far as general highlights go, here’s what we really enjoyed:

—Weekend trips to Edinburgh, Bath, York, and especially the Lake District. The scenery was amazing.Once again under Chambers’ hallowed dome, their memories of last spring are obscured now by the more recent events of the intervening months. But every once in a while, as we amble blindly along through these narrow streets and widening piazzas of our everyday lives, we stumble upon a bit of broken travertine or a piece of shattered column, and—ecco!—we’re back in Rome for a moment or two, no doubt smiling while the memory lasts. Some of us might cry, some of us might laugh, some of us might try to attach some hefty significance to this piece of rubble; none of us, however, not even John Hutton, will attempt to clean it up. Of this, I am sure.

Lush green grass covering hills and carpeting courtyards, brilliant flowers of all shades growing wild or captured in gardens everywhere, clear lakes, majestic mountains, castles, stacked stone villages, sheep. And it hardly rained the whole time. —Participants in the semester abroad in Rome program last spring.

TASTING IS BELIEVING COUPON

ONLY —Picnics in the park, complete with fresh bread, cheese, wine, strawberries, and chocolate. It was cheap and fun, so we indulged in it often.

Visiting huge cathedrals, especially York Minster. The architecture was truly inspiring although Scott Kegel insists that if “you’ve seen one old church, you’ve seen ‘em all!” —Finding letters from home waiting in our designated “pigeon hole,” and of course sending postcards in return, for we soon learned that “mail is a reciprocal trade” (another classic Kegel quote). —Hanging out with the Krentz family and Mac Dowdy (our British program director) at dinner parties, in class, and on tours. The rest of you should experience it for yourselves, either through pictures or by going next summer, and having the time of your life. If you do make it to Cambridge anytime soon, do me a favor—eat some potatoes, and toast the mother country on behalf of the Davidson ’91 group.

Tisinger Continued from page 15

Send any information over the lines to Washington. On July 4, the group flew to Springfield, Missouri, where the president walked in a small-town parade and gave a speech. Later that day, they traveled to Michigan, where Tisinger was part of a “travel pool” of about ten reporters who rode in a flatbed truck in front of the president as he participated in another parade, and then gave another speech. This pool serves to report on any major unexpected event. To top off this Fourth of July trip, Tisinger rode to the airport in a motorcade of about 20 cars, and then flew on the president’s plane back to Washington. Not only did Tisinger have the exciting experience of covering this event, but he also worked on other interesting projects at the Journal. From day to day, he researched different topics for reporters, which included attending press conferences and gathering information. He attended the press conference of the National Abortion Rights Activists’ League (NARAL) where they announced their opposition to Bush’s nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court. Tisinger also worked on the BCCI investigation with the Journal reporter who covered the scandal.

Second, Tisinger worked on an ongoing project of writing a feature article for the Journal. The article, which appeared in the July 22 Wall Street Journal, focused on the conflict between the Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP) and the U.S. Postal Service about who has the authority to print stamps. Since 1894, the BEP has printed stamps, but under Reagan, the Postal Service began to privatize the printing. Many of the bright, colorful stamps we often use today are printed by private businesses, while more traditional stamps are done by the BEP. Before this summer, Tisinger, who is also a reporter for the Davidsonian, says he was considering a journalism career, but had not decided. Now, however, after weeks of first-hand experience, he says that he is leaning more towards moving into the newspaper business. “Being around those reporters in Washington in the newsroom made me realize that those guys know more about what is going on in Washington than anybody—even more than the Congressmen,” Tisinger said. “I learned an incredible amount from listening to the reporters giving their opinions on all different issues.”