THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

Looking for a Refund?

Once again, U.S. News and World Report has published their list of the top colleges and universities in the United States. Unfortunately for Davidson, however, we took an eleven spot nose dive on their score sheets this year. Why the plummet? Have our admissions standards fallen so sharply in the past year? No. Did U.S. News get wind of all the graduate students in teaching positions? Doubtful. Do we just bite this year? Of course not. Davidson’s drop from the list was based primarily on our financial resources and spending per student and faculty member. The qualification is, quite simply, numeric.

Many students have been perturbed by the U.S. News ranking, as they can no longer claim affiliation with a “top ten” school. Several are even more embarrassed at our classification as the second “best buy” in the country, joking frequently about Blue Light Specials on knowledge at Davidson. We needn’t be so upset. U.S. News bases their survey on such an odd range of data that qualification stems as much from matters financial as academic. Let’s not worry ourselves about a drop in popularity amongst the media. We know where our strengths and weaknesses lie without the help of a publication which needs to give away free radios in order to get subscribers.

Out of Line

Last week, four Davidson seniors (Annie Adams, Cammie Covington, Sterling Freeman, and John Howell) sent out a letter cautioning students about alcohol abuse. However noble their intentions may have been, their action came across to many as a shamelessly condescending act of self-promotion. The “holier than thou” tone of the letter inspired several to wholeheartedly hurl the offending material into the nearest Post Office trash can, without reading past the third line.

Of greater concern than the tone of the poorly written treatise is the presentation of the document under the SGA letterhead. The SGA never approved the letter, nor did the Patterson Court Council, the Dean of Students Office, or any other official branch of the college. The initiative of the authors might have been more admirable if they did not disguise their individual action under the edifices of the SGA. In closing, it is the distinct hope of The Davidsonian that individuals will actually direct their philanthropic efforts through official channels of college life if they are going to risk suggesting that their words are representative of those organizations. We also hope that the individuals paid for the mailing of this letter themselves rather than used funds derived from the Activities Tax Council to deliver their message.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College.

Letters

Is Davidson a Suitcase School?

To The Editor:

A strange practice has recently become the norm on the freshman halls at Davidson this semester. Every Friday afternoon, three quarters of the class pack their suitcases and head towards rival schools in order to find something to do over the weekend. The decision made by Dean Terry forbidding upperclassmen from entertaining freshmen in the weeks preceding the opening of the Court has had serious side-effects. For a large proportion of the freshman class, Davidson has become a suitcase school. The past few weekends have seen large groups of freshmen leave campus in search of things to do. Groups have ventured to rival schools including Chapel Hill, as well as Duke, Durham, and Salem. Some of the trips appear to have been successful, but others have been less so. Thirteen freshmen from Belk travelled all the way to Wake Forest last...Week simply to discover that the rumor of a free-for-all 27 keg party was just that - a rumor. Obviously, some things were just not meant to be. However, on a more serious note, the phenomena can be seen as something which is a little alarming. The open house policy on the Court, combined with the small size of the student body, has always prevented this from happening at Davidson in the past. Not only is it a practice which suffocates any social life that the school itself tries to encourage, it also alienates those people who cannot afford to leave campus each weekend, or who simply lack the transportation. Whilst it is normal that not everyone stays at school over the weekend, the freshmen class has recently taken this to an extreme. A fire alarm set off in the middle of last Saturday night on Fourth Cannon showed that less than 15 girls from that hall had stayed on campus for the weekend. All the others had taken their suitcases as far afield as Atlanta and Charleston. With the opening of Patterson Court to the freshman class this past weekend, it is hoped that this practice will cease to a great extent. Davidson has never been, and does not try to be, a suitcase school. There should be more than enough to do on or around campus, and one hopes that the class of 1995 will realize this before too long.

Sincerely,
JO BURROWS, '95

Humphrey Responds to Cartoon

To The Editor:

The cartoon in last week’s Davidsonian shows a misunderstanding of both the Spencer House and the fourth eating house which is currently being organized. All three women’s eating houses are currently stable and in no danger of “sinking” as Spencer was portrayed to be in the cartoon. The intention of the new women’s eating house is to broaden Davidson’s women’s eating options as well as to increase their participation on the PCC and the SGA. About 60% of the males at Davidson participate in Patterson Court while nearly 90% of Davidson females are affiliated with eating houses. Obviously, the representation is disproportional. The fourth house will also help to ensure the validity of the self-selection process and alleviate some overcrowding. It is up to the women of Davidson to work together to organize this house and to preserve what is already established.

Sincerely,
JENNIFER HUMPHREY, ‘94

More Students Offended by Flyer

Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editor:

Though last week’s flyer was most likely offensive to Davidson’s gay community, we feel that a much larger group was wronged by the callous words. This prejudice against the academically oriented has probably existed on campus for a long while, but we as freshmen are frustrated that such open hostility exists in our college. We wish not to point any fingers or to encourage drastic action. We want only to instill a greater sense of responsibility among Davidson’s non-“Geek” community members. Many of us chose Davidson because we were searching for a place with neat computers and the legendary Check CHAL center. To reject any group on the basis of questionable activities is surely in opposition to the purpose of a liberal arts education. How frustrating it is for those of us who wish to live in an open, supportive environment when attitudes such as these permeate our campus. Xenophobia, Geekism, homophobia, and any other form of prejudice stems from either fear or ignorance. As we can safely assume that most Davidson students are not stupid, we hallmates have deduced that fear is at the heart of these attacks. What is it that you people fear? Is it our pocket protectors? Is it our horn-rimmed glasses? What can it be? Are you so insecure in your programming abilities that you have to degrade those of us that camp out by the keyboards? Though most of us have no desire to rub shoulders with “normal” people down on the hallowed Court, it would be nice to know that we might be welcome (if there was a late-Friday-night system breakdown). How sad that a community known for...

See "Flyer" on page 6.