THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

Let’s Learn Some Manners, People!

Recently in the Davidsonian, a number of controversy-sparking articles have been published. I have been appalled for the most part
at the manner in which several Davidson students have responded to opinions they disagreed with. I have heard of two
instances in which two different Davidsonian writers were harassed and threatened over the telephone. People need to realize that our
speech is protected by constitutional law. To threaten someone verbally because of what that person has said in print is
a violation of that person’s civil rights. Not only is harassing someone in the middle of the night tacky, it’s
criminal.

Finally, I’d like to address a concern that has been voiced time and time again in the Davidsonian. Over and
over the editors receive poisonous letters in which the staff is chastised as being misrepresentative of the nature of the
Davidson student body. I have two responses to that sentiment.

First, many of the editors and writers are heavily involved in the goings-on of this college. They are associated with
the newspaper because, in one regard, they want to give more to the college. Since many of the staffers are
overworked as it is, I can understand becoming enraged at a viewpoint that is either hurtful or factually erroneous. But
channeling rage into reason so that others can see another side seems to be the only acceptable route. Venom and
hatred in editorial responses only turn people off, but precious little is more powerful than a carefully articulated and cogently
written letter in which a conflicting opinion is dismantled in a systematic fashion. And by the way, I think that
it’s worth stating that the Bill of Rights is still on the books. We all remember that the First Amendment
guarantees freedom of speech.

Second, on another level, I think the Davidsonian is a perfect representation of our student body—there is diversity on the
staff. Compare my column to Oma Blaises’; David Scott’s to Chris Frampton’s; Jay Ferguson and Anthony Foxx’s to the Birkenstock
Boys. If you read each of these columns, then surely you are aware of a broad spectrum of opinions and
styles. If you truly think the Davidsonian publishes articles written by clones, then help fix the problem instead of whining
about it. The editors have stated that they would welcome interest in writing for the Davidsonian. So, if you don’t
like what you see here, help bring about change and bring forth an enlightened viewpoint.

Stop Waving the F.L.A.G.
By Jim Carswell

Let me start this piece with a confession: my name is not on the FLAG petition, and I do not
want it there. Now, don’t jump to conclusions—I’m not a homophobe or Christian fundamentalist. Actually, I do, in principle, support
the idea of a FLAG chapter on the Davidson campus. We are a small, conservative, and often stagnant school that
needs to be awakened to the realities...of human sexuality. There are gays and lesbians in our midst, and they are
entitled to the same rights and privileges as any straight White Anglo-Saxon Protestant. Discriminating against them denies their human integrity
and calls into question the very intelligence of the discriminator. That said, let me proceed. FLAG, as I understand it,
seeks to improve the quality of life of gays and lesbians while also promoting understanding among those members of the
community who may, in their ignorance, discriminate against them. Already, FLAG has begun to succeed in its first task; as
it now seems that homosexuals can breathe easier knowing that there is a measure of support for them. From my
perspective, though, it seems that its awareness-raising attempts, i.e. circulating and publishing that petition, have failed miserably. To explain, I
must engage in some narrative. By now, most of the people on this campus know about the petition, but a
few weeks ago, when it was being circulated, a lot of us missed it. I, in fact, only happened to
run into someone who had a copy (and I promptly signed it), but what about all the people living off-campus,
or those who just happened to be out when the crusade came to their door? Because FLAG neglected to handle
the project in a more thorough manner, a lot of people who would have signed were left off. Count the
names -- there are only about 500 or so, out of the nearly 2000 who make up our community! The
editorial board of the Davidsonian, while offering its full support to the organization, recognized a potential danger in printing the
petition. The concern was that people who had not been given the opportunity to sign would be open to unfounded
criticism and scorn from the people who had affixed their name to the “correct” document. See "FLAG" on page 7.

Beyond Birkenstock
Birkean Ethics

Submitted for your inspection; the News from the Weird: (all entries were culled from the Washington Post October 31, 1991.)
"WEST PALM BEACH, Fla., Oct. 30-- Circuit Court Judge Mary E. Lupo today barred [Kennedy Pies's] attorneys from filing that
the alleged victim is an unwed mother but allowed them to introduce as evidence the woman’s dress and underwear." Roy
E. Black, Smith’s lead attorney, said the woman’s high-heeled, black-patent leather shoes turn out to be highly relevant. He refused
to elaborate on that comment and on his assertion that the woman’s bra would prove to be the defense’s single
most important piece of evidence. The Thomas confirmation apparently increased the public’s appetite for torrid tales by an order of
magnitude or two (the exact figures are difficult to determine because respondents tend to lie when confronted with those questions).

J. Kyle Kinner & Seth J. McLaughlin

How else could the infamous "Wilder factor" be so graphically illustrated and accounted for than by the recent successes of
everyone’s favorite friend and Grand Wizard David "Don’t Call Me a Racist, I’m for Equal Opportunity Bigotry; I hate ‘dem’
Jews just as much" Duke. Of course, Roemer was his own worst enemy, but Duke could turn out to be
Louisiana’s worst nightmare. The point was not even David Duke’s membership in the KKK as much as it was Louisiana’s
failure to confront his beguiling bigotry for what it was, a load of @#$%. But, we digress. Returning to the
subject at hand, see "Birkenstock" on page 6.
