2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

College Celebrates King's Birthday
By David Thompson

Services opening the three-day celebration of civil rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., began at 7:30 on the evening
of Sunday, January 20, in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The service launched a series of events continuing until Tuesday,
January 22, which are designed to raise awareness of the works and messages of Dr. King.

Scheduled to participate in the ceremonies Sunday night were Chaplain Chuck Hasty, Dr. Sally McMillen of the History department, Dylan
Glenn ’91, juniors John Howell and Michelle Blake, and sophomore Machelle Sweeting. The service was an opportunity for members of
the Davidson community to express their thoughts regarding the civil rights leader.

A 28-hour prayer vigil will begin at 8:00 Monday morning. Students are asked to meet in thought and prayer in
the DCPC sanctuary. The vigil will end just before the 11th-hour lecture on Tuesday. The talk is to be delivered
by Melvin Watt, a lawyer in Charlotte, who was formerly a North Carolina State Senator and the campaign manager for
Harvey Gantt. Watt’s lecture will close the celebration.

Sophomore Class President Joe Cook said that by holding the celebration, “the student Solidarity Committee is trying to bring everybody
together at a very turbulent and difficult time.” Cook urges all members of the Davidson community to take part in
the King celebration.

Cornelius Expansion Includes Movie Theater
By Ross Sloop

Good news concerning the entertainment world has reached Davidson College. Beginning next fall, moviegoers will no longer need to trek
down to Charlotte to see the latest films. If development proceeds as planned, Cornelius will be sporting a new movie
theater by the time students return for the 91-92 school year.

By David Thompson

The Honor Council met Monday, January 14, to determine punishment for junior James J. Carswell IV, who had turned himself
in for accidentally pulling a fire alarm. At approximately 2:30 on the morning of Wednesday, January 9, Carswell set off
the fire alarm on the second floor of Knox dormitory. Later that day, Carswell turned himself in to Director of
Residence Life, Richard Terry. Terry referred the case over to Dean of Students Will Terry with whom Carswell met that
afternoon. After deliberating for two days, Dean Terry directed the case to the Honor Council.

During the open hearing, Carswell stated in his testimony that he set off the alarm accidentally. Carswell later said in
an interview after the hearing that what happened was a “stupid mistake. I had no malicious intentions whatsoever. It was
a complete accident.” Also providing testimony to the Honor Council was Fire Marshall Bob Gurley. Gurley stated that the false
alarm roused twenty-two volunteer firemen from their beds and unnecessarily brought four fire trucks to the campus at a total
cost of $420 to the fire department. Gurley also emphasized that because of false alarms, fewer firemen now respond to
alarms at Davidson unless summoned by a second call from the Fire Marshall. Of paramount importance to Gurley was that
the false alarms will stop, but that students won’t be afraid to pull an alarm in the case of an
actual emergency. “We want to stress to all the students: do pull it when there is a need.”for it,” said
Gurley. Gurley affirmed that it was possible that the alarm could have gone off accidentally. He stated that the fire
department “suggested to Mr. Collins to put plastic covers over the alarms ... and that would stop a lot of
these accidents.” Gurley also read a letter of apology which Carswell had sent to him, and he accepted it on
behalf of the department. The Honor Council ruled that Carswell must pay a $100 fine and provide 32 hours of
community service.

Although Carswell had been drinking before the incident, no alcohol probation or counseling was recommended due to the accidental nature
of the event. Carswell’s comments on the case were brief. “It is good that it came out in public,” claims
Carswell, “because this is a problem of which the student body needs to be aware. In a strange way, I’m
glad that it happened so that people will know to stay the hell away from fire alarms.”

The urbanization of north Mecklenburg County by Charlotte-based businesses. The Lake Norman area of the county had significant growth during
the last four or five years. Developers recognize the potential profits to be earned in such a growing area. The
Cornelius Pizza Hut, opening last month, set an all-time record in sales for any Pizza Hut. Members of the Davidson
community recognize both the benefits and the drawbacks of such rapid growth in the area. Charlotte native and Davidson freshman
Phiderika Foust predicts that people returning to north Mecklenburg County five or six years from now will not recognize the
area. Bill Strong, who has resided in Davidson for the past twenty-five years and teaches at the middle school in
Huntersville, has mixed emotions. “Although I would prefer a rural environment,” says Strong, “if we have to have the crowds,
I am delighted with the increased convenience.”

The movie theater is only part of a project planned by Liverpool Partnership Ltd. A complex in the Chartwell Center
area of Cornelius will include, in addition to the cinema, a First Citizens Bank, a 77-room Best Western hotel, and
a Pizza Hut which was completed in December. Although building permits were issued last week, foul weather hinders the start
of construction. Much of the infrastructure for the complex was completed earlier. Developers hope they will complete all of the
project by late July. This Liverpool Partnership Ltd. complex epitomizes the suburbanization of north Mecklenburg County by Charlotte-based businesses.

ATTENTION Candidates running for Union President, Union Vice President Co-curricular, Union Vice President Social. Essays to be published in the
January 28th issue of The Davidsonian are due Wed. January 23 by 5:00 PM. Late submissions will not be accepted.
Call Jay at x6627 or x2148.

Studio & Hair Designer's Salon Supplies
CALL FOR APPOINTMENTS
OPEN FRI. 10 - 6 & SAT. 10-3
WALK-INS WELCOME
Children's Haircut & Style $3.00
Permanent Wave
Male or Female Haircut $5.00
Call David Thompson at x6569. 892-6982 or 892-7855
HWY. 115 (3 MILES N. OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE)

Read The Davidsonian

Davidsonian's acute lack of pertinent news articles results in a picture of Epcot's latest attraction. Write for News and you
can have fun equal to riding in ridiculous boats. Photo Courtesy of D.
