6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

By Mary McNeil '92

2LT. Bob Davidson, a 1989 graduate of Davidson College, is in Saudi Arabia. I thought that you might like to
hear first (if you haven’t already) from one of our own, and knew he would be glad for you to
read his words as he mentioned that he and his platoon are thinking about writing to The Davidsonian. Here is
a portion of the very interesting and informative letter (written the 7th of February):

“I have been here with my platoon (25 men and 5 women) since the end of August. Up until Christmas
we would go out on training exercises in the middle of the desert for a month at a time. Then
we would have 10 days of so-called R & R in Tent City before we would do it again. Of
course, we were always near the border and on 24 hrs. alert in case Iraq attacked. Immediately after Christmas, about
5000 of us were sent to the border in an emergency because everyone thought Saddam was going to attack. Once
that scare was over, we were moved constantly around, especially after January 17th. It has rained on us, and it
has gotten down into the teens at night with the wind chill. Let’s just say no one ever told us
it rained or got below freezing in the desert (it filled our foxhole, 5 ft., one day). So the weather
has been pretty nasty. For the last three days, we have quit jumping around and are now waiting to attack.
The most action we have seen are the Air Force dropping bombs immediately across the border in our sector. We
will have all the action we can handle soon enough. Please tell everyone I said hello and am doing fine.”

I am sure he would like all the mail that he can get, even if it is a short message
on the FAX machine, so here is his address (the new one) in case you would like to write:

2LT. Bob Davidson
Operation Desert Storm
Bravo TM/311 MIBN
101st Airborne Div (Air Assault)
APO, NY 09687.

The other recent Davidson graduates who are in Saudi Arabia are 2LT. John Engel, 2LT. Sherb Sentell, 2LT. Rufus Timberlake,
2LT. John Black, and LT. Jeff Muir. Two faculty members are presently over there: LTC. William J. Diehl and CPT.
David Strong. I encourage you to write to these men as well.

The Shakespeare Express from James Madison University will be at Davidson on Sunday, March 3 at 7:30 p.m. to perform
Measure For Measure in Eu Hall. Don't miss the opportunity to see one of Shakespeare's least produced plays. Admission is
$5 and can be paid at the door.

Why I Became Shattered At My Last Home Basketball Game

This season’s last home game was marked by unusually enthusiastic student body support, insanely daring cheerleading stunts, and a very
disappointing (but not surprising) performance by Bob McKillop. It became clear at the tip-off, when nary a senior Wildcat was
to be seen on the court, that our fledgling coach was going to finish the season with the same self-serving
player rotation he has used all year. Perhaps it was silly of us to expect that Bobby-Boy would give the
seniors any more PT than usual. After all, why should he give a rat’s nether regions about the fact that
Wednesday night was the last chance Darry (Strickland) and Turner (Gilmore) would have to play in front of their classmates
... and the last chance that people in the class of 1991 would have to cheer for these two hoopsters
whom we have admired for four years now? Why should he care - he didn’t recruit them, and all their
friends won’t be around to boo him next year. Why should the last home game be any different for him
than any other?

I'll tell you why. There are a few situations in this world that call for men everywhere to pull their
heads out of whatever orifices they happen to be in at the moment, and to act with a certain amount
of je ne sais quoi; perhaps class is the correct word. These situations require of a man that he reach
into the depths of his soul and pull out whatever it takes to rise to the occasion. In the heat
of battle, soldiers are called upon to do this sort of thing. Doctors and nurses in the emergency room of
a trauma center often heed this call. For a basketball coach...This call comes, among other times, at the last home
game of the season. Bob Hornsby. Unfortunately for us all, on Wednesday night Bob McKillop was like school in the
summertime—no class. He heard the call, over and over again, but chose to ignore it. For that reason, he will
always be remembered as a poor excuse for a man. Other men, lesser men, have responded to this call. Dean
Smith, perhaps the sickest joke in basketball history, gives his seniors the honors they are due at the last Carolina
home game of the season. Bobby Hussey, whose name lives in infamy here at Davidson, did the same for his
seniors. But Bob McKillop did not.

It is no secret that McKillop has used his time and the facilities here to provide experience to his undeniably
talented recruits. But his exclusion of the already experienced seniors and juniors on his squad has led to a great
degree of resentment from the student body, if not from the players themselves. Some resent the coach’s tactics because they
believe we have lost too many games this season due to “freshman” mistakes. Others are just incensed at his transparent
favoritism. But everyone understands his strategy. McKillop is sacrificing morale and perhaps victories now, hoping to beef up his chances
of wins down the road. He knows he has a few years to prove his ability, and when the time
comes to review his performance (two years from now?) he would obviously like to have big numbers in the wins
column for his most recent season. Clearly a self-serving approach. I am afraid our coach has forgotten the fundamental rule
of sportsmanship: It’s not whether you win or lose (now or two years from now); it’s how you play the
game. It still warms the heart, though, to see that Darry and Turner haven't forgotten. They know how to play
the game, and they played it well. I only wish I could have seen them play more of it—but Wednesday
night was my last chance. I’m shattered... but not in the good way.

Entertaining The Idea Of A Fine Arts Week At Davidson

Last Thursday night I watched the classical music recitals in Love Auditorium. I have zero knowledge of classical music, other
than what I picked up from the movie Amadeus and from my mother who plays flute. I was blown away
by both Debussy’s and the Chopin on piano. Julia Boyd’s clarinet selections were beautiful. The opera workshop was a unique
performance, as was the opening Renaissance dance piece. Ignorant me had never heard a live harpsichord. It was a crime
that maybe thirty students were there. Many of them because their music class gave them extra credit to show up.
The rest of the crowd included friends, a few Trustees, a few faculty, some family. But compared with the packed
auditorium for Margaret Atwood on Monday night it was a meager crowd. Meager, for most performances were brilliant. I had
seen flyers and was interested because my friend Josh Hickman was performing, who tooled on violin I might add, accompanied
by Minnie Iwamoto on cello. It was one of those things that I almost bagged because of work, but went
to at the last minute and am glad I did.

I am familiar with most DC. Unfortunately, students’ idea of a culturally challenging evening: Order Chinese from the Lotus, rent
a science fiction movie like Predator or Terminator, watch the movie on your Japanese VCR, drink shots of Mexican Tequila,
play Nintendo on your Japanese TV, then head to Patterson Court to get in touch with your Southern heritage and
dance to Sweet Home Alabama. Killer.

The point of this is not to complain. Or say that I am culturally well-blended like I am a milkshake
or something. Nor to belabor the obvious point that apathy, indifference, heavy workloads, stress, or whatever it is that causes
poor attendance, do exist. I offer a simple idea. Davidson should coordinate some sort of Fine Arts Week. It has
been done in the past, according to aged historian Dr. Gil Holland. He in fact suggested this idea for a
column. As it is today, the fine arts are there, and they get performed. A literary society reads literature each
week. There is a literary publication, Hobart Park. Students take painting, etching, and drawing classes each semester. There are songwriter
nights in the Union. There are music majors who hold recitals like last Thursday night. I know of one junior
English major who is doing an independent study on photography. There is a creative writing class. There are delightful one-act
plays. Last semester’s “Film As Narrative Art” class resulted in excellent student-produced films.

Why not have a big Arts Festival in the Spring which coordinates this talent? Nice weather, blow off work, drink
beer, listen to a band in the afternoon, walk around looking at art, go to a play in the evening.
Union folks and... Continued on Page 8.
