THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

Beyond Birkenstock: Holdt's American Pictures an Oversimplification
J. Kyle Kinner and Seth McLaughlin

Warning: The Polemicist General has determined that the following column violates scholastically accepted politically correct thought. Abandon hope, all ye who enter... this isn’t PC.

Last Monday, in a burst of anti-ethnocentrism, the Birks decided to take in a show. The “American Pictures” show, to be precise. From the roughly four million posters put up on campus, we discerned that this event would be an exercise in cultural awareness—an opportunity to learn something about the American underclass. Well, if you call four hours in the heart of darkness listening to some guy from Denmark exhort us to “embrace our racism,” an opportunity in cultural awareness, then yes, it probably was. If, however, you find such events more an exercise in victimization and white guilt, then you were probably wise to stay away (the audience dwindled as the polemic progressed).

The stated intention of the show was to “create emotions in you not unlike blacks have.” The artist, Jacob Holdt, begins his exhibit (a collection of slides) with the premise that “reverse-oppression” will allow the audience to experience a “seemingly endless bombardment of statements of the type blacks have always tried to express to us.” As a result, Holdt admits that his exhibit is deliberately biased towards a “one-sided worm’s eye view, from the position of those worst off.” If you ever thought there was anything romantic or prosaic about society’s underbelly, this collection should change that. Being poor black, or poor white, means living in shacks, working like a slave in a sweatshop or the fields, and dying an early death.

At irregular points, the photographs Holdt presents are both stunningly powerful and an indictment against a society that can allow such injustices to occur. Most, however, are cruder and more overtly political. At his best, Holdt makes you reflect on your own values; at his worst, he makes you sick. Unfortunately, the best are the minority. Apart from the stylistic elements of Holdt’s exhibit, the narration that accompanied it was without excuse. Essentially, Holdt approached his exhibit with the purpose of confronting his audience and forcing them to examine their own social justifications by making them feel “oppressed.” This approach operates out of an identity that black sociologist Shelby Steele says “obliges them to badger white people about race almost on principle. Content hardly matters.” Steele suggests that the “goal of these provocations is to put whites, no matter how indirectly, in touch with... collective guilt.” Steele’s thesis, in “I’m Black, You’re White, Who’s Innocent?” (Harper’s, June 1988), concludes that race distinctions can more easily be defined as “competing power groups.” Although Holdt tried to couch his rhetoric in terms of absolving blacks of totally representing urban and rural poverty, his narration was heavily skewed toward black as victim. He made sweeping over-generalizations on American society and concluded that the economic disparity between blacks and whites (and hence, all the pain and suffering in his photographs) was caused by a universal racism that “we” must learn to embrace in order to overcome it.

When “we” (the Birks) asked if he had any evidence to support his assertions, Holdt cited the minority concentration in the inner cities and suggested that a welfare state modeled on Denmark was the only equitable solution. Walter Williams, a black economist at George Mason University, disagrees. According to Williams, “There is a large segment of black people who are poor, and for whom there appears to be no hope under the status quo.” Williams objects to the conclusion that social disparities (i.e. income, education, etc.) are the result of discrimination. He notes other minority groups (Jewish and Asian) that overcame “gross discrimination” to become economically successful. The median age of white Americans is 31, while the median age of black Americans is only 21. Comparing the two groups' net earnings is like comparing someone in mid-career with someone just starting out.Someone just starting out. “I’m not saying that discrimination does not exist... what I am suggesting is that discrimination, all by itself, just cannot explain very much,” Shelby Steele’s essay is a great deal more objective than Holdt’s exhibit and might shed some light on the questions he raises. Steele notes that “the loss of innocence has always to do with guilt and demoralization, even as opportunities for blacks to better themselves have increased... but there is a reluctance among blacks to examine this paradox... because it suggests that racial victimization is not our real problem. If conditions have worsened for most of us as racism has receded, then much of the problem must be of our own making.” Holdt approaches the question of black confinement within an economic poverty matrix with the goal of assessing blame and collecting the reforms induced by guilt. Steele characterizes this mindset as “seeing for innocence.” He suggests that “seeing for innocence pressures blacks to focus on racism and to neglect the individual initiative that would deliver them from poverty—the only thing that delivers anyone from poverty.” His conclusion: “In this society, race must not be a source of advantage or disadvantage for anyone. This is fundamentally a moral position, one that seeks to breach the corrupt union of race and power with principles of fairness and human equality: if all men are created equal, then racial difference cannot sanction power... What made King the most powerful and extraordinary black leader of this century was not his race but his morality... What both black and white Americans fear are the sacrifices and risks that true racial harmony demands... it would be right to suggest courage as an antidote to fear... we should have made the effort.” What more can we say? Just this: Jacob Holdt’s oversimplification of the American poverty dynamic reduces a complex issue to simple blame. Obviously, this neither benefits the poor nor offers constructive solutions.

Jacob Holdt Opens Eyes
By Mike Moriarty

A relatively simple man from Denmark, Jacob Holdt, came to Davidson last Tuesday night, showing some very disturbing and thought-provoking scenes of America’s underworld, mainly of blacks. So often these atrocities hit hardest when someone from the outside, relatively objective, shows them. Yet, unfortunately, many are still not moved to action and doubt our society is as split as Holdt suggests. So many people want to dismiss these less fortunate as lazy or undeserving. I attended a conference last Thursday night and Friday morning in which this topic was the focus. Two preeminent experts in the field spoke, Kevin Phillips and Dr. William Wilson. The latter works in the slums of Chicago and his stories of hopelessness, depravity, and lack of opportunities gave statistical support to the scenes Jacob Holdt portrayed. Anyone who attended the American Pictures program knows how gut-wrenching some of his pictures were, from gunshot wounds to body parts to the appalling hatred of the KKK. We may be able to lead the world militarily and stop Iraq in a matter of days, but America is by no means a universal model. Holdt stated that in some neighborhoods in Harlem, blacks comprise 96% of the population, noting that the last time a country has so physically isolated a minority (with the obvious exception of South Africa) was Nazi Germany. Also, Holdt said that by the year 2000, the unemployment rate for blacks may reach 70%. These are rather embarrassing figures for the world’s supposedly most civilized country. Inequality still pervades all aspects of American society, whether it be by income, race, or serving. But when those below the poverty line represent anywhere from 12-20% of the country’s population, it simply is impossible to do so. Add to this those victims of racism and other forms of injustice, one begins to see the severity of the problems. Dr. Wilson found that despite all the rhetoric, most of those jobless in the inner-city do want to work. There are solutions to the pressing social problems of our time, yet the disgrace is not that we lack the answers, but that we so often lack the initiative to even try to find these solutions. We condemn so many countries for not having a democracy and treating people cruelly or unfairly. When we do not even try to solve the problems facing 1/5 of our fellow citizens or more, who are we to criticize?

Now that the war is basically over, we have to rebuild Kuwait. Freddie, if you were in charge of building a nation, how would you do it from scratch? Well Robbie, I think I’d start with Charlotte as a model...