MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

Sports

14

Slam.

Bam.

Southern Conference Offers Davidson Invitation To Return

By Bruce Balestier

Less than one year after leaving independent status to join the Big South Conference, it appears that a rekindling of Davidson’s longtime affiliation with the Southern Conference may be in the offing.

Davidson left the Southern Conference in 1988.

According to Assistant Athletic Director Sterling Martin, the Southern Conference first offered the invitation before the NCAA Convention in Nashville, and desired a reply during the convention. As it stands now, Davidson has until March 1 to decide.

The expansion-minded Southern Conference, which recently announced the addition of Georgia Southern as its ninth member, presently is comprised of Appalachian State, Tennessee-Chattanooga, The Citadel, Marshall, Virginia Military Institute, Western Carolina, East Tennessee State, and Furman.

Commissioner-elect Wright Waters revealed that, while present Conference statute mandates a maximum of 12 member schools, there is sentiment among present members to raise that ceiling to 14 schools and divide into two divisions.

Waters characterized Davidson as a “great institution” and said that Davidson’s “academic reputation, we believe, fits neatly” with the other schools in the conference.

He declined to comment on other schools being considered in the conference’s expansion plans.

Davidson Wins First On The Road Against Campbell

By Bruce Balestier

Davidson entered Monday evening’s matchup with Campbell in Fayetteville with a 3-9 overall record, 1-4 in Big South play, and faced the prospect of falling irrevocably out of the Conference title picture.

Though no doubt harried by a voluminous crowd of 371 at the Cumberland County Civic Center, the Wildcats quickly showed themselves equal to the task at hand.

A three-pointer by Paul Denmond commenced, and a three by Janko Narat concluded, a 19-3 spurt that transformed an early 5-1 deficit into a commanding 20-8 cushion for the ‘Cats with 9:06 to play in the opening stanza.

The lead swelled to 13 points at 30-17 on a James Marsh basket with 3:58 left before Campbell scored the final 7 points of the half to close to 30-24 at the break.

A jump hook by Detlef Musch gave the Wildcats their biggest lead of the second half at 41-32 with 14:48 remaining before Campbell’s Rod Gourdine took control. Gourdine, who finished with 21 points to lead all scorers, poured in 11 points during a 16-3 run that gave the Camels a 48-44 lead with 6:20 to play.

The ‘Cats returned the favor, however, with a 15-5 surge to end the game.

A three-point play by Marsh gave Davidson the lead for good at 55-53 with 1:51 to go, and free throws in the final minute by Denmond, Jason Zimmerman, and Narat iced the ‘Cats’ 59-53 win.

Musch and Narat each contributed 10 points.

The win, Davidson’s first on the road this season, was the team’s fourth of the season, equaling the team’s output of victories for all of last season.

Jam

Photos by Chris Lee

Wrestlers Punish Yellow Jackets

By Matt Johnes

The Davidson Wrestling team’s return to Baker Sports Complex proved a successful one last Saturday, as the ‘Cats pummeled Washington and Lee, 33-11, and crushed Georgia Tech, 43-6, while falling only to Furman. Coach Tom Oddo’s squad is inexperienced this year, with only four wrestlers having previous college experience, but the freshman class is quickly making the difficult transition from high school to college wrestling.

“The freshmen are getting stronger with every match,” said senior Dylan Glenn. "I’m very optimistic about the rest of the year, and I think two years from now Davidson will have a really strong program.”

Freshman Robert Broussard said, “I think we will do well in the upcoming Washington and Lee tournament. Our dual meet record shows improvement over the past two years.” It seems that wrestling, like so many other Davidson sports, has been brought to a higher level by this year’s outstanding freshman recruiting class.

Glenn and co-captain Joe Binns registered victories in the tri-meet, along with Russ Felker, Robbie Fierro, Miles Louria, Sam Knowles, Henry Neale, Scott Townsend, Francis Mitchell, Jimmy Stewart, and Eric Farmer. Stewart, wrestling in the 190-pound class, won all three of his matches. The ‘Cats jack-of-all-trades was Neale, who wrestled in both the 158 and 177-pound classes. The Wildcats will be traveling for the rest of this month, with meets against the Citadel and Appalachian State. They return home Feb. 5th, when they will take on the Camels of Campbell. Matches begin at 7:00 PM.

Write for Sports
Call Bruce -6217 or Tom -6213
Please