THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

SERCH Fosters Multiculturalism In Davidson
By Casey Otis

The Davidson community has a new addition, Students for the Establishment of Racial and Cultural Harmony, or SERCH. The group was founded by Anthony Foxx, a junior from Charlotte. SERCH grew from informal discussions Foxx and others had on racial and cultural frustrations. Foxx, May Martin, and Mary Mount Faith have spearheaded the group. They have enlisted the help of approximately twenty-five other students to raise specific black and white issues at formal group discussions. Foxx said these discussions have “worked out well, and have shown there is a demand for a group like this at Davidson.”

As the only black person on his freshman hall, Foxx discovered that racial issues were difficult to talk about. Because there was no place where these issues were raised and understood, the idea of having a group devoted to racial and cultural differences was born. Between his freshman and sophomore years, Foxx attended a black leadership conference. At the conference, he was introduced to the idea of multiculturalism. SERCH is largely based on this theory.

SERCH has grown into an organization which confronts problems of diversity and attempts to understand different viewpoints on racial and cultural issues. SERCH is not a political organization. Anthony Foxx calls the group “amoebic,” and he says the purpose of the group is to “meet people at their level, and through dialogue, better understand each other.”

SERCH has the support from all sectors of the Davidson community, including President Kuykendall, the Dean of Students office, the College Union, Patterson Court, Athletes, and SGA. Foxx calls the concept of SERCH “very radical, because blunt questions of race are not usually asked, certainly not on this campus. People have not been confronted on such a personal level. Even if people sit in on a SERCH discussion, they will learn something about themselves.”

The group has already met five times and has had one guest speaker, Ismail Conway. Mr. Conway is the director of student activities at Cornell and an advocate of multiculturalism. The group plans to meet on October 30, to discuss racial divisions in religion. The meeting is open to all students.

Homeless Man Lectures at Cal St.
By Karen Neustadt

(CPS) -- When Len Doucette became homeless, he got angry. He wanted others to understand the humiliation, the hopelessness, the loss of self-esteem. So he began teaching a class about his situation.

“I want to get my students as angry as I am about the conditions -- angry enough to do something about it,” Doucette said. “The problem starts with misconceptions about the homeless.”

When he first offered the course “Homelessness and Public Policy” through California State University at Bakersfield, only a dozen students showed up. That has changed. His lectures -- peppered with anecdotes of welfare agencies, unemployment lines, street life, and experiences in overnight shelters -- are not easy to listen to. Some students dropped the course after the first lecture.

“The students who do stay in, however, are very motivated and concerned with the problem,” says Jaci Ward, a program coordinator for the college. “Mr. Doucette puts his ego aside and discusses the problem objectively. He’s able to depersonalize it.”

Doucette first became homeless four years ago when he was in an accident that cost him his low-paying office job. He lived in San Francisco, working part-time jobs that did not cover the rent. He is now temporarily living with a friend because he can’t afford rent on his part-time instructor’s pay. The outspoken Doucette, who says he does not allow himself to become discouraged, compares the current wave of homeless persons with the Depression of the ‘30s. “Except that now these people are single. The dissolution of the family is a contributor to this problem.”lem.” Doucette tells students that while the homeless issue is getting press coverage for the first time, the majority of the problem is hidden. “These people look just like you or me. But they are living with friends, or family -- or in cars.” The class, designed by Doucette, features local speakers such as members of Congress and social agency officials. Then students are required to take part in five learning experiences and write a paper, expressing thoughts and feelings about each. Doucette’s curriculum instructions include the following: 

(1) Go to a location where the homeless congregate and stay one or two hours. 
(2) Render yourself homeless for a day. The minimum amount of money allowed on your person: 25 cents, no credit cards, no food. 
(3) Go to a non-profit agency and find out what is required to enroll in an assistance program. See how you are treated. 
(4) Go to a busy urban area and ask five people for the money for a cup of coffee. Note your strategies and the other person’s reactions. 
(5) Do something to help a homeless person, making special note of how you view the person, and how you think the person views you. 

“It is one thing for this to be an intellectual exercise and another to personalize the problem, to feel the lack of self-esteem,” Ward said. Doucette taught a similar course at San Francisco State University. The 55-year-old instructor says he wants to remind students that many people are “just one or two paychecks away” from the streets.

Student Government News
By Leigh Rawdon

The SGA senate meeting held last Tuesday in the Union Conference room opened with a summary of the events of “Into the Streets,” the nationwide service week. Beginning announcements also included an invitation for all students to a Union Homecoming semi-formal on Saturday, October 26 from 9:30-1:00, and a reminder to buy senior class t-shirts. Cammie Covington, SGA president, discussed her speech at the Trustee Plenary Session held October 11. She reported that she had addressed the alcohol problem primarily with regards to the dangers of drinking and driving in addition to the situation of minorities on campus. The SGA’s “Breakfast for a Buck” project was well received as a partial solution to the safety concerns. “The trustees brought up a new North Carolina law that holds social hosts accountable for serving to minors.

DON'T FORGET TO PICK UP YOUR COPY OF THE 1989-90 YEARBOOK IN THE UNION CONVERSATION PIT! (JUNIORS & SENIORS ONLY)

Bryson Moore (SGA appointed representative to the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics) reported that an investigation is being done by her committee to determine how Davidson stands with regards to financial aid, size, financial support and spending, and the academic lives of the athletes. The group plans to make a recommendation concerning Davidson’s athletic future in February.

A committee chaired by John Burns (Sig Ep senator) was created to address the concerns about minus grades. This committee plans to issue a survey to students and faculty and to ask Sue Ross (Registrar) to assess the effects of minus grades. The committee will report at the senate meeting on November 5.

Additional points of interest include the installation of gas grills and picnic tables at the senior area.

If you think drugs cost a lot now, wait until after college. They could cost you a career. Last year alone, America’s businesses lost more than $60 billion to drugs. So this year, most of the Fortune 500 will be administering drug tests. Failing the test means you won't be considered for employment. And that's one hell of a price to pay.

WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS.
Partnership for a Drug-Free America

LIKE TO TAKE PICTURES? THE DAVIDSONIAN CAN ALWAYS USE MORE PHOTOGRAPHERS. CALL HOLTH HATHAWAY AT 6633