THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

(Rude Notes & 7)

Random Scribblings: Sorry, No Well Developed Arguments

Last week we, the members of the Rude Notes Society, brought you a somewhat developed argument that looked like it
had a conclusion. (Of course, that’s not really true.) This week we are going to return to the bold typeface
format of old. Not only will the reader find this style easier to read, we, the authors, know this style
to be easier to write. So here are some general complaints.

Charlotte Observer sports section! We can’t believe it! Honestly, this could be the stupidest sport in the world. We simply
don’t understand what the attraction is to a bunch of cars driving around in circles.

Tim McCarver: This guy could be the biggest idiot to ever even watch baseball, let alone commentate. He actually said,
“Trying to get a hit off Avery is like trying to put a button through a buttonhole.” (For those of
you who didn’t understand that one, we’re talking about Braves’ baseball.)

Fertilizer: Why does the Physical Plant decide each year to use a fertilizer which smells like the entire city of
Charlotte has collectively farted at the same time and Davidson happens to be downwind? Plus, the whole idea of walking
on “composted turkey litter” makes us sick.

Homecoming: Folks, this past weekend, most of us got dressed up and went to dinner at an expensive restaurant. To
those of you who paid, I hope you either had your date buy the liquor or you got some play,
otherwise, you got screwed.

Scrawler of Swastikas: You're an idiot. (Please, if you haven’t read Dr. Plank's poem “Malediction” in last week's paper, we
beg you to do so.)

Author’s Picture: What exactly is he doing with his hands?

SGA: We don’t want to poke fun here, but those SGA forums must be really boring if only one student
shows up to listen and contribute.

Jukebox: The new jukebox in the Union is a great idea but the music selection sucks. I know people are
trying to fix this, but until they do we encourage the continuation of Davidson’s newest hobby. Play the worst you
can find right as you are about to go, leaving your fellow students behind to suffer.

Garth Brooks Concert: We hear this no-talent received something like 200 roses during the course of his epic one and
a half hour long concert. Honestly, wouldn’t you prefer to see their place of origin than roses?

Herzig Continued from page 4

We cannot support such a suggestive sexist statement. Moving on to Saturday night on Patterson Court, the saga continues. During
Air Band at Phi Delta Theta, one act danced to a Red Hot Chili Peppers song with only socks covering
their genitalia. At the climax of the song, an inflatable doll was thrown to the floor.The others lowered one guy
up and down over the doll to the beat of the music (we will not even say what the lyrics
were). The crowd cheered them on. At one point, someone from the audience grabbed the doll’s head and made her
body thrash. It was eerily evocative of a gang-rape scene. This gesture lacks respect for women’s feelings about rape and
attack. How did you know there were not women in the audience who had been through a similar experience? Such
a scene makes a mockery of the horror of rape. This is not “good, clean fun” - it is fun
at the expense of others. Perhaps in the future, a co-ed committee should screen the acts before the damage is
done. Trivializing the issue by saying we’ve gone overboard does not change the facts. Men and women on this campus
will never be able to communicate until they learn to respect one another. The only thing that will stop such
actions and flyers is our refusal to participate. We applaud the women of Rusk. If a flyer offends you, do
not go to the party - male or female. If something that occurs during a party offends you, leave -
male or female. Only together can we make the Court activities fun and safe for everyone.

Sincerely,
Mary Herzig ‘92
Susan Peppers ‘92
Senior Senators

Apologize: In the most recent edition of Senior Scribbles, we forgot to mention the outstanding work of Timisha Barnes in
Kiss Me Kate. We apologize to Ms. Barnes for our error.
--Paul Rybiski, Prem Manjooran, Jackie Carberry

Mullins Continued from page 4

First of all, this poor sportsmanship reflects on the College. We sound like a bunch of uneducated rednecks at the
Charlotte Tractor Pull. Secondly, and most importantly, it is inconsiderate to subject other spectators in the community to x-rated ball
games. It would be a shame if a professor felt uncomfortable taking his or her children to sports events on
campus. The ball games are for everyone in the community to enjoy, not just the students. I realize that hollering
and booing are part of the fun of cheering on a team. But let’s be tasteful about it and watch
our word choice.

Sincerely,
Catherine Mullins ‘92

Reinertsen Continued from page 4

Finally, and most truthfully, their attitude toward their health and their sexuality which they have now shared with the whole
campus and possibly their parents, should keep any intelligent sexually active female miles away from them.

Anxious for Less,
Jessica Reinertsen, '93
Jenny Satterfield, '94
Suzanne Hardesty, '94
Cynthia Brooks, '94
Heather Shavender, '94

Letters to the Editor are normally due in the Davidsonian office by 12:00 Noon on Friday for publication the following
Monday. This week, as Parent's Weekend approaches, we'll need your letters by 1:00 pm Thursday. Thanks

Get your Halloween off to a spooktacular start at The Village Store. 110 South Main St. Masks and Make-up. Halloween
cards from creepy to cute. Decorations and party supplies.
