2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991

WIRE! International Festival Showcases
Minorities Becoming Majorities On Campus?

BOULDER, Colo. (CPS) -- A first-ever projection of the ethnic makeup of the nation’s public schools reflects that by 1995, one-third of U.S. students will be from minority groups.

“This trend will continue to grow,” predicts Robin Etter Zuniga, author of the two-year study sponsored by The College Board and the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education. “The white birth rate has declined, so the younger the age group, the more you'll see this sort of thing. Many states have no single minority any longer.”

The study says 1995 will also see ethnic minorities making up a majority of students in four states. In 1989, non-whites and Hispanics made up a majority of high school graduates in Hawaii, New Mexico, and the District of Columbia.

Feds Rescue Ailing Medical School

NASHVILLE, Tenn. (CPS) -- The U.S. Public Health Service recently announced a $10-million plan to assist Meharry Medical College, a prestigious black medical school that is having financial problems.

Under an agreement with the federal agency, the school will add 10 physicians to the existing faculty and will receive various other services.

Meharry, founded in 1876, didn’t have enough patients at the campus hospital. In order to receive the aid, Meharry will have to merge with Nashville’s existing 200-bed county hospital, Metro General.

“Meharry is a dynamic, historic school -- they didn’t want us to continue to have problems,” says Mary Vowels, assistant vice president for college relations.

Johns Hopkins Responds To Charges

BALTIMORE (CPS) -- A preliminary audit that showed several expenses claimed by Johns Hopkins University were inappropriate or unallowable for reimbursement by the federal government is only partially accurate, officials say.

The school made the interim response while awaiting a final audit, said spokesman Dennis O’Shea. “We recognized that the auditors did a good job and that some expenses were incorrectly claimed ... but there were some specific areas where we disagreed.”

Because the school has its overhead reimbursement costs pre-determined by the government each year based on money received the previous year, the misuse of federal money could have an effect on reimbursement from 1989 through 1991.

The funds allegedly misused in 1987 totaled $89,119 and involved a research trip to Europe by the school’s president and a party for a retiring provost. Johns Hopkins received $49 million from the government in 1987.

Student Government News

By Catherine Turner

Tuesday night the SGA approved changes to the bylaws regarding elections. A candidates forum, held the night before the elections, will be mandatory for students running for Union President and Vice President, SGA President, Vice President and Class Senators. This forum will help the voters to be more informed about the candidates.

In addition, the campaign period for Categories II-IV will be shortened to relieve the students’ stress and the amount of flyers that clutter the dorms and other buildings, not to mention waste paper. Their campaigning will run from Thursday through the election on Tuesday. However, for Category I, the campaign period will remain one week in length in order to allow freshmen the opportunity to get to know the candidates better.

Reach Out At Davidson (formally YSSC) President and Vice President elections have moved from Category II to Category III, in order to allow more time to set up Spring projects.

The SGA President and Vice President elections have been changed from Category III to Category II, in order to allow for more overlap time, helping the President’s and Vice President’s transitional period.

These election bylaw changes are now in effect, so take heed if you plan to run for an office in the Spring.

International Festival Showcases 21 Countries in One Building

Courtesy of College Relations

On Saturday, Sept. 28, the sounds of German waltzes and smells of Spanish flan and Sri Lankan curry will envelop the Davidson College Union. All of these treats, and many more, will be part of Davidson’s International Festival.

According to Harin de Silva, one of the chairmen of the International Committee, each room of the union will represent one geographic area of the world. Each country in that area will have its own booth in which clothes, books, jewelry, photographs and food unique to that country will be displayed. World maps will be posted to show visitors the location of various countries.

Davidson's 65 international students will staff the 21 booths representing their countries. According to Prem Manjooran, who also chairs the International Committee, the festival gives international students the chance “to express their diversity, and also allows the American students and community visitors to explore this diversity.”

A new addition to the festival this year will be the inclusion of an American booth. Manjooran said that he has been advocating an American booth for several years, as the United States is just as important a part of the international community as any other country.

The festival will be held from 10:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m., and admission is free.

THEFT PROTECTION:

Bicycle Locks From $5.95-$37.95

$5.00 Off Any 'U-Lock' With This Coupon

170 N. Main Street Mooresville 663-8812 M-F 10:30-6 SAT 10-5 5-6 Miles North of Davidson on Rt. 115

Try One Of Our New Hoagies

STEAK’n HOAGIE

A taste for everyone.

HOT PASTRAMI

Grilled Pastrami On Multi-Grain Roll With Provolone Cheese & Dijon Mustard

With Coupon: $3.29

CHICKEN CORDON BLEU

Grilled Chicken Breast, Provolone Cheese and Dijon Mustard

With Coupon: $3.49

TURKEY BREAST

Turkey, Bacon, Lettuce, Tomato, Onion, Oil & Vinegar or Mayo.

With Coupon: $3.19