MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991

Campus Living

Photo By Lee Pennington

Two Perspectives On Mardi Gras In The Big Easy
By Rebekah Fanning and Emilie Treumann

New Orleans is definitely not your average American city and, during Mardi Gras, it is almost like visiting another country.
That’s why it was so perfect to bring my friend Emilie from Amsterdam to my hometown for Carnival. As a
native New Orleanian, I was ready to brave the crowds of crazed Mardi Gras fanatics to get my hands on
all the beads, cups, and underwear I could. (Worthless, plastic paraphernalia seems to suddenly increase in value during Mardi Gras
season.)

Never having missed it before, I could hardly wait to get home to experience the unique atmosphere: jazz bands playing
Mardi Gras music in the French Quarter, little kids scampering everywhere shoving and grabbing for beads, and drunk adults shouting
and dancing in the streets (and also scampering everywhere shoving and grabbing for beads). Although Emilie did not know quite
what to expect, she immediately felt at home in downtown New Orleans, which reminded her a lot of Amsterdam, especially
the artists and musicians on the streets.

We both enjoyed a fantastic trumpet solo by a vivacious little eight-year-old jazz musician in Jackson Square. By the end
of the trip, Emilie had not only learned how to say “New Orleans” right (not New Or-leenz), but also learned
not to be surprised when men would yell occasionally, “Show your $%$s!” to passers-by (and that women actually responded to
that!). Basically, combining both international and native perspectives, we concluded that Mardi Gras is just another excuse for Americans to
get drunk and have a good time.

The Bible Dedicated
By Marlo Cobb

Today’s article is not so much about health as it is about chocolate, because the commercial celebration of Easter in
the United States wouldn’t be the same without it. How is chocolate made? Cacao beans grow in the tropical rain
forests of the Ivory Coast, Brazil, Ghana, Nigeria, and Cameroon. The United States is the number one purchaser of cacao
beans; this country buys 11% of all beans harvested. It has been estimated that the average American eats around 10
pounds of chocolate per year, but the Swiss, Austrians, and Belgians eat even more.

Cacao beans are shipped into Philadelphia, and then on to various manufacturers. Each manufacturing company has its own secret recipe/variation
on how to make chocolate, but the basic procedure is the same. Cacao beans are fermented and dried before shipment.
Fermentation is a flavor-releasing process which must be done at exactly the right time; underripe beans which are fermented will
develop a “hammy” taste, and overripe beans will not have enough flavor. Once in the United States, huge machines in
a chocolate factory clean and roast the beans, at which point they are called cocoa. Then the beans are shelled
and ground, yielding a substance called chocolate liquor. Solidified, chocolate liquor is unsweetened baking chocolate. Under pressure, a fat called
cocoa butter can be extracted. The dry remains are called cocoa powder.

Chocolate as we know it consists of chocolate liquor plus varying amounts of sugar, added cocoa butter, milk, and vanilla.
“Bittersweet” chocolates have 35% chocolate liquor by weight. Dark chocolates have 15%, and milk chocolates have 10%. White chocolates may
not have any chocolate liquor at all; they contain mainly sugar, milk, and cocoa butter. Lecithin is sometimes added to
smooth out chocolate’s texture. Some manufacturers add salt; some don’t use vanilla.

Health: Around the turn of the century, all chocolate was considered “pure” and “healthful”. Perhaps because so many people...

International Night Features Students From 14 Countries
By Jay Chaudhuri

On Thursday evening, March 7, the International Committee of the Union Board presented the second annual International Night. The event
brought together 52 students from 14 countries. The evening started with the traditional lamp-lighting ceremony. Afterward, Sharon Cheah, Julie Tisha,
Michelle Siee, Suz Mathieson, Vincent Choo, and Ken Lane performed a dance from Southeast Asia. Then, Don Jayasinghe sang a
Sri Lankan folk song. Ugandans Philip Mone and Anthony Mubiru also sang a traditional folk song from their home country.
The event also had an Eastern European flavor when Janko Narat on acoustical guitar and Irene Arsov sang a Yugoslavian
scout song. Christina Lopez Ibanez of Guatemala and Beatrice...Still find chocolate so enjoyable, research has continued to try and find
some proof that it is “good for you,” some excuse to indulge in it the way we do. For a
while, it was thought that stearic acid, a saturated fat in chocolate and beef, lowered cholesterol levels. The study that
“proved” this, however, was flawed. Chocolate contains phenylethylamine (PEA), a substance similar to the hormone produced “when people fall in
love.” It was hypothesized that people crave chocolate after a break-up in order to bring levels of this hormone back
up to par, but there is not enough PEA in chocolate to really do that. Besides the taste and pleasant
memories associated with chocolate, we probably have cravings for chocolate because, like all carbohydrates, it has a calming effect. At
the same time, the caffeine in chocolate acts as a stimulator; the chocolate consumer gets the best of both worlds.
For some people in a Johns Hopkins study, chocolate was a more effective mood elevator than a drink or a
cigarette. Chocolate is not addicting, in the sense that no physical withdrawal effects occur when it is not eaten for
a period of time. Synthetic chocolates have not been successful because the distinct flavor of cocoa beans is complicated and
hard to reproduce. Barat chocolates, found in some department stores, are a halfway attempt at synthetic; they contain tofu in
place of milk products, and organic cane juice instead of refined sugar. Before you write it off as “junk food,”
know that chocolate contains vitamin A, phosphorus, calcium, niacin, riboflavin, thiamine, potassium, protein, and iron. Compared to low-fat milk, of
course, chocolate is not a practical source of any of these nutrients. But it...

Jean-Philippe of France performed a Caribbean dance. Aradashir Dubash of India played a jazz medley on the piano. Afterward, Beatrice
Jean-Philippe and Jerome Lauck of Southern France, Jorge Pardo of Puerto Rico, and Hein Dang of the U.S. performed a
French skit. Twins Rira and Mira sang a variety of Korean gospel songs. Then, Annette Gutberlet and her partner performed
the famous German waltz. Ema Yin sang a Chinese folk song; and finally, Mika Nabeshima and Asoka Yoshi of Japan,
and Marshall Adams of the U.S. demonstrated the popular sport of Sumo wrestling in a satirical way for the audience.
The evening concluded with a fashion show in which participants donned their native costumes. Indeed, the evening was a success.
As Prem Manjooran, co-chairperson of the International Committee, said, “It is a perfect example of how Davidson students, irrespective of
their background, can come together in mutual endeavor and derive simple enjoyment in each other’s company and from each other’s
creativity.” Co-Chairman Harin de Silva concurred, “It brought together people from all over the world and glorified the diversity of
Davidson.” The masters of ceremonies for International Night were Bob Hornsby and Jay Chaudhuri.

By Jane Mount

Women are everywhere at Davidson. Even Belk, that bastion of masculinity, usually holds a few at any given time. They
are students, faculty, maintenance staff, eating and cooking in eating houses, secretaries, and administrators for whom they work—women pervade almost
every facet of life here. Perhaps too many appear in some of those positions and too few in others, but
they all make it impossible to avoid seeing them constantly. But do we really see them? Or do we just
take their existence for granted? Come on, they’ve been here for almost twenty years now; what’s the big deal, right?
The Big Deal is that March is National Women’s Month, and that gives us an excuse to regain our appreciation
for them. Often the only way to understand something so familiar is to remove it and study it as extraordinary.
Allen Compton, a Davidson graduate himself, has done this. Now in the Union Gallery, women are everywhere at all times,
but in abstract form. Allen photographed “Women at Davidson” and his beautiful black and white prints will be hanging throughout
March. With photography, he has extracted women from the everyday and commonplace and so demanded our attention and respect. Allen
does not focus on only one aspect of women, but instead shows their prevalence in all domains. He reminds us
that our professor, a fellow student, and perhaps the person who cleans up after us in our dorms have a
common bond. They are all women.
