12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

Sports

Bruce Balestier: ON THE SPORTS FRONT

Senior outside hitter Mimi Plauche calls the first match of her freshman year the most significant volleyball victory of her career. In that match, Winthrop won the first two games and took a 14-2 lead in the third, but Davidson won that game 16-14 and went on to win the match in 5 games. “Ever since then,” says Plauche, “we’ve been on our way.”

The four-year careers of seniors Plauche, Holt Hathaway, and Christy Knight come to an end this week; the Wildcats play their final home match Tuesday night at 7:30 against UNC-Greensboro, and close out their season over the weekend at the Big South Tournament. The departure of Plauche, Hathaway, and Knight is unusually meaningful because they have come to be synonymous with Davidson volleyball itself.

Hathaway, Knight, and Plauche arrived at Davidson in 1988, and quickly became leaders on a young team only recently removed from club status. For everyone involved, the chemistry, bordering on clairvoyance, between Plauche and Hathaway was immediately apparent. They made large contributions in a 25-win season that was, at the time, a school record. Faced with a tougher schedule the following year, the team took its lumps with a 12-21 mark, but Plauche, Hathaway, and Knight continued to shine and improve. They were, of course, the leadership behind last year’s senior-less 31-6 team, the winningest in Davidson sports history. Together, they have lifted, year by year, the Davidson program to another level.

Of course, no one is more aware of the seniors’ impact on the program than coach Rebecca Hawkins. Of Plauche and Hathaway, she says that “we were incredibly lucky to get the two of them here for four years.” The relationship of setter to her go-to hitter is always a special one, but the closeness of Plauche and Hathaway has transcended usual closeness. From the very beginning, they have always been able to...

Beach Wins Big South X-C Title, Leads Wildcats to Second Place Finish

By Richard Wharton

The Davidson women’s cross-country team roared through their conference finale this weekend with a second-place finish at the Big South Conference meet held at King’s Grant Country Club in Summerville, South Carolina. The ‘Cats were led by senior Kathy Beach, who sped across the finish line in first place. “I went through the first 600 meters with another runner who sort of kept with me, but after that, she faded and no one else challenged me for the rest of the race,” Beach said. In fact, no one else even came close. Beach led for all three miles, finishing with a record time of 18:29. Beach’s time was her overall personal record (PR) for a 5k course.

Following captain Beach’s lead, sophomore Karen Marshall ran to a fifth-place finish with a 19:18 time. Together, the two exercised great stamina and strength to achieve All-Conference performances. Moreover, the two set the ‘Cats up for their successful team finish. Coming in third for the team was freshman star Elizabeth Bishop, who with Karen hopes to continue the ‘Cats’ success next season. Bishop ran a 20:44, falling into 15th place, another strong finish for a fine runner. Behind her was sophomore Amy Bertram, who overcame an injury-plagued season to come up with a season...

Wildcats Top Sixth-Ranked Demon Deacons

By Tom Price

The Davidson men’s team pulled off the biggest upset of their season on Sunday as they surprised the sixth-ranked Wake Forest Demon Deacons 1-0. Senior Lance Long scored the winning goal on a penalty kick midway through the second half. The play resulted when a “hand-ball” foul was called on a Deacon player inside of the goalkeeper box. The win improves the ‘Cats record to 8-9-2.

The two squads played an aggressive, physical match in which both teams had excellent opportunities to score. Davidson’s best chances came early in the second half when the ‘Cats were able to keep the ball in the Deacon half of the field. The constant Davidson pressure was finally rewarded when Lance Long received the penalty kick. Long waited and let the Deacon goalkeeper commit to...

Hampden-Sydney Thrashes Wildcats

By Chris Hood

“Hampden-Sydney beat us in every single way you can beat someone.” Head Coach Dave Fagg summed up accurately Saturday’s 56-14 Parents’ Weekend mauling of the ‘Cats by the Tigers with this statement. Hampden-Sydney rushed for 386 yards and six touchdowns and added 227 through the air as their potent offensive attack kept the ‘Cats off balance all afternoon. Davidson amassed 333 total yards, but four interceptions were too much for the ‘Cats to overcome offensively.

By Bruce Balestier

With an unsightly four-game triumph (15-10, 15-4, 12-15, 15-4) over last-place Campbell Tuesday night, the Davidson volleyball team eased into a 1st-place tie with UNC-Asheville, and claimed the top seed in next weekend’s Big South Conference Tournament. The ‘Cats will again take on Campbell when the first round of the Tournament gets underway Friday in Asheville. The Camels entered Tuesday night’s match winless in Big South play, and just 8-16 overall, and were clearly no match for the...the right side before placing the ball into the left corner. “They are the best team we’ve played this year,” Fagg said. “Their quarterback (Dwayne Bowyer) is as heady and cool as anyone I’ve seen this year... and they have a great coach (Joe Bush) and a great system.”

“There’s not PR time of 20:55 and a 25th place finish. Bertram used strength saved up from a low mileage season for her strong finish and is eagerly awaiting the Regional meet, where she hopes to best her previous record time. Fifth for the ‘Cats was sophomore Jean DeMoss, who closed the door on the competition with a 38th place finish and a strong showing of 21:50. Sophomore Lisa Sitek finished it out for the Cats, overcoming a week of illness with a 22:13 time over the 5k course. Overall, the team’s top five scored 84 points, proving their strength and stamina were ample to end Davidson’s era in the Big South with a high finish.

Wake Forest greatly increased their offensive pressure during the game’s last ten minutes. They had several excellent opportunities to score, the most memorable came at the six-minute mark when the Deacons had three consecutive shots. Goalkeeper Alex Deegan saved the first shot, but it drew him away from the goal. Stopper Matt Spear moved into the goal and headed the second shot away. The third shot hit the crossbar and Davidson was finally able to clear back Richard Howell. “They did a really good job steadying us; they were prepared for us.”

Bowyer was one of the Tigers’ two most powerful weapons Saturday. He completed 15 of 19 attempts and a touchdown; on the ground, he gained 44 yards and contributed another score. “Hampden-Sydney is a good team and we didn’t play our best,” said quarterback Paul Amos. Davidson coach Rebecca Hawkins’ most demanding task was to find a way to motivate her team. Hawkins set a number of mini-goals for her players in the hope that they would stay involved in the match, but poor play forced her to scrap them quickly.

The opening game was a somewhat nondescript affair that saw the ‘Cats take several narrow leads despite some sloppy play. Davidson took the game 15-10 on the strength of two late kills by Mimi Plauche. Fellow senior Christy Knight was the star in the Wildcats' easy victory in game 2. Campbell took an early 4-2 lead before their wheels came off. Knight’s hitting began the Davidson surge, and she served out the last 7 points (including an ace) in a 15-4 win. A lineup comprised mainly of reserves took the floor in game three, among them walk-on outside hitter Carol Bitter and backup setter Lorie Logan. Bitter thrilled the home crowd with an ace for Davidson’s first point of the game and helped the ‘Cats to an early 4-3 advantage, but it wasn’t enough. Davidson climbed out of a 12-8 hole into a 12-12 tie but fell 15-12. However, the improbable Campbell comeback fell two games short when the Wildcats laid the strap to the Camels in a 15-4 fourth-game win.

A devoted group of Davidson students, faculty, and parents made the trip to the Mine Shaft at UNC-Charlotte (where they outnumbered the UNCC fans) two nights later and were treated to one of the greatest wins in Davidson volleyball history. The Wildcats’ 16-14, 15-4, 15-12 victory over the 49ers was a testament to their resilience and skill.

The Davidson men’s team, running almost an hour later, gave it a good, solid effort. Team captain Ted Richardson finished first for the Wildcats with a 14th place finish and a time of 27:23 over the 8K course. Freshman dynamo Eric McMichael came in 22nd with a time of 27:42, and sophomore Richard Wharton finished third for the Cats in 25th place, running a 27:53. Fourth for the Wildcats was senior Chris Otrok, in 31st place, and closing the race out for them was promising sophomore Cam Dauler, in 33rd place. Finishing up for the Cats was promising freshman Richard Howell.

Only minutes later, in another offensive flurry by the Deacons, Spear had to make another saving header. These defensive stands brought the Parent’s Weekend crowd to its feet and preserved the upset victory. This game concluded the ‘Cats regular season. The team begins play in the Big South conference tournament Tuesday at home versus the University of North Carolina.

The ‘Cats defense was down as he rushed for 120 yards and scored three touchdowns; he was on the receiving end of Bowyer’s touchdown strike. The Tigers racked up 28 points before Davidson got on the board in the second quarter. The ‘Cats began at the Hampden-Sydney 30-yard line after recovering a fumble. On third down, Howell found John Bodkin for a 16-yard completion. After a Hampden-Sydney penalty, Shane Mills drove through the line for the one-yard touchdown. Another fumble recovery set up the Wildcats for another score.