THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991 13

Sports

Volleyball Finishes Second In Big South, Mimi Plauche Named Player of the Year

By Bruce Balestier

Perhaps overwhelmed by an emotional pre-game ceremony that honored seniors Holt Hathaway, Mimi Plauche, and Christy Knight, the Davidson volleyball
team turned in a somewhat disappointing performance Tuesday in a 15-5, 15-12, 15-10 loss to UNC-Greensboro.

The ‘Cats started slowly against UNC-G, which was at the top of its game from the opening serve. Several Wildcat
errors figured in a 9-0 Spartan run that began, and effectively ended, the first game. Davidson strung together a few
points late in the game, but fell 15-5.

The second game was a much more competitive affair. Katherine Anderson’s decisive kill of a short set by Hathaway gave
the Wildcats a commanding 8-2 lead, and Davidson seemed ready to even the match at one game apiece. But the
walls fell down in a hurry, as UNC-G scored 8 straight points to take a 10-8 lead. The Spartans pushed
their cushion to 13-9, but Davidson came back. The serving of Jennie Wagner brought the ‘Cats within 13-12, but they
could come no closer. UNC-G took the game 15-12.

In the final game, Anderson’s hitting and blocking spurred the ‘Cats to a 4-4 tie before UNC-G put the match
away. A quick spurt gave the Spartans what proved to be an insurmountable 14-7 advantage. Though the Wildcats did delay
the inevitable by winning several points and forcing numerous sideouts, they eventually did succumb, 15-10.

After the game, coach Rebecca Hawkins lamented her team’s inability to capture the momentum of the match. Hawkins cited questionable
calls and missed serves among the reasons her team “just never got anything going.” In addition, Davidson errors played a
key role in the loss. The ‘Cats’ ace to error ratio was 1-8, as compared with 13-8 in the UNCC
match.

But Tuesday’s loss disappeared into insignificance with the arrival Friday of the Big South tournament.

Men's Soccer Ends Season With Disappointing Loss to UNC-A

By Tom Price

The men’s soccer team lost to the University of North Carolina at Asheville 1-0 on Tuesday in the first round
of the Big South tournament. The loss ended the season and made the Wildcats’ final record 8-10-2.

The loss was especially tough for the ‘Cats because they controlled much of the action and clearly outshot the opposition.
Defender Craig Omli said, “It’s frustrating for us because we worked so hard this year and we hate to end
the season with a loss to a team we should beat.”

The game remained scoreless until UNC-A scored midway through the second half. The ball was crossed to the middle of
the field from the right side. The UNC-A player who scored was on the ground but managed to get his
foot on the ball. Goalkeeper Doug Long was moving to his right.

Women's Tennis Buries UNCC

Davidsonian Staff Reports

With what Coach Caroline Brown-Price called the “bragging rights for Mecklenburg County” on the line, Davidson used strong doubles play
to break open a tight match and coasted to an 8-4 win over UNCC last Saturday.

After forging a 4-4 tie with the 49ers in singles play, each Wildcat doubles team won decisively to propel the
‘Cats to the victory. Number one tandem Cyndi Hess and Kimberley Nance turned in a 6-1, 6-0 win, while #2
team Barbara Grams and Tasha Ruth had a similar performance.and couldn’t change direction in time to stop the shot. The
Davidson players didn’t hang their heads after falling behind and seemed to believe that they could come back. During the
game’s last ten minutes, the ‘Cats had several excellent opportunities to even the contest. Defenders Matt Spear and Craig Omlimoved
up the field in an attempt to increase the offensive pressure. The best chance came with only 1:12 left on
the clock when a UNC-A player was called for a hand-ball foul within the goalkeeper box. Senior co-captain Lance Long
was picked to take the penalty kick. Coach Slagle hoped that Long could repeat his performance against Wake Forest this
past Sunday, where Long’s penalty kick off another hand-ball foul was the winning goal. Long’s shot, however, was stopped by
the diving UNC-A goalkeeper. Against Wake, Long chose the left corner, but against UNC-A he decided to go right. Unfortunately
for Davidson, the Bulldog goalkeeper chose the same direction. This game ended a frustrating season for the Wildcats. Expectations were
high at the beginning of the season, largely because of the team’s success last year. In the second game of
the year, however, the team lost their leader, All-America Rob Ukrop. Ukrop was responsible for 22 goals and 12 assists
during the 1990 season and his offensive production proved to be irreplaceable.

The UNCC match capped a string of fall matches that Price called “the strongest fall season that we’ve ever had.”
The level of competition and sheer number of matches in the fall slate has, according to Price, sparked extraordinary improvement
in the team. In the spring, Davidson will seek their second straight Big South Tournament Title. The last individual competition
of the fall occurred this weekend at the Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches Association (ITCA) Southeast Regional Tournament at N.C. State. For
the first time, five Davidson players were invited to the tournament, which attracts players from the finest teams in the
Southeast, among them traditional powers Duke, Clemson, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. Hess, Beahm, Nance, Ruth, and Grooms represented
Davidson in Raleigh.

The Wildcats drew last-place Campbell in the first round and came out ready to play, advancing to the semifinals with
an easy, 15-5, 15-4, 15-11 win. In Saturday morning’s semifinal, the ‘Cats downed Liberty, 15-2, 15-7, 8-15, 15-1. Predictably, Saturday
afternoon’s final was a matchup between the top two teams in the league during the regular season, Davidson and UNC-Asheville.
The Bulldogs gained revenge for a regular-season loss to the ‘Cats with a 17-15, 12-15, 15-8, 15-9 win, but the
Wildcats were hampered when Plauche was lost to a sprained ankle. In Friday night’s conference banquet, Plauche was named Big
South player of the year and was joined on the All-Big South team by Hathaway. Jennie Wagner and Amy Howard
were named co-MVPs of the tournament. Plauche was also selected to the all-tournament team.

Home Athletic Events: November 11-18
November 18: Men’s Basketball v. Ukrainian National Team 7:30 p.m.
