THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING — Monday, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Thomas Likes Emphasis on Teaching
By May Martin

Dr. Harry Thomas, a new professor in the English Department, has enjoyed seeing students around campus and getting to know
them better, which was less common at Boston. Thomas is teaching three courses this semester: a seminar on the poetry
of Thomas Hardy, Philip Larkin, and Tony Harrison, a poet he thought not many Davidsonians would know. As it turns
out, Thomas found that some here have heard of him and know his work well. He is also teaching a
Freshman Composition section, which he is enjoying, and English 160, a British literature survey.

While Thomas has been surprised by many aspects of southern culture, he has been impressed by Davidson and is happy
to teach at a college that expects its teachers to teach. After teaching at Boston University for seven years, he
says that he and his family were glad to leave both the city and the university, and to come to
a place where professors are not expected to give the “back of their left hands to teaching and the palm
of the right to writing and research.”

Dr. Thomas, who went to the University of San Diego and then to the University of Michigan for graduate school,
heard ravings of Davidson and North Carolina from a friend in graduate school. He also knew Charles Wright, an American
poet who attended Davidson. As far as Davidson students are concerned, Thomas has found that on average, they are better
writers than Boston University students, although they do not speak up in class as much.

Marc Overcash: Sophomores hazing freshmen

Archives each daring not to launch weapons was traditional. Granted, bombing freshmen with hot water, bathing them with tar late
at night (the sophomores didn’t make the freshmen jump out the second-floor windows to escape), or beating them with sticks
and pokers might seem extreme, but these were extenuating circumstances. The Freshman class of 1906, at the time the largest
in Davidson’s history, outnumbered the sophomores almost two to one. This outbreak of hazing seemed to be a haphazard exertion
of authority by the sophomore class who were intimidated by the freshmen’s numbers but refused to show it.

The freshmen found little tolerance for these unwarranted pranks and decided to give the sophomores a reason to haze them.
After all, if you are going to be punished, why not do something wrong? Painting the 12-9 freshman-sophomore baseball score
on Davidson’s fence (some sources say the pillars of Chambers) was definitely something wrong. Furthermore, roping (some say greasing as
well) the gate to the Banquet Hall where the sophomores were feasting was even worse. And while they still felt
the sting of shame, like a slap of a glove across the face, the sophomores marched en masse to mete
out their revenge.

The force of sophomores met a freshmen class armed with buckets of water, rocks, and sticks barricaded in Spence House
[a house on Main Street]. Here the details are fuzzy. One says that the freshmen threatened to fire pistols if
any sophomore breached the staircase. Another writes that the sophomores hurled stones and threatened to burn down the house (and
later rebuild it). Still another says that the sophomores and the freshmen simply found themselves at a draw, kind of
like the Cold War. Regardless of the degree of violence, a compromise was reached. The terms of the truce vary
with who tells the tale, but the end result was that neither the hazing nor the retaliations ceased.

The day after, the freshman class decided to leave Davidson College until everything blew over. All but three who lived
in Davidson walked to the Cornelius train station. There, they pooled together their money, bought tickets to Charlotte, sang the
Alma Mater, and awaited their train. Then, like the cavalry in the Westerns, came professors from the College. They pleaded
and begged the freshmen to return to Davidson. The professors offered the class their own houses, and one, Dr. Martin,
threatened to shoot any sophomore who touched a freshman. The freshmen walked back to the College.

The next day the student body informed the freshmen that they had until 2:00 to repaint the fence that bore
the 12-9 score. The freshmen refused. The faculty entreated. The seniors, juniors, and sophomores waited. President Smith implored. The freshmen
refused. Time ticked. President Smith looked for any freshman to rub out the score. None volunteered. The freshmen collected in
Dr. Martin’s yard. The seniors, juniors, and sophomores stopped waiting. They held a meeting. And much to the disappointment of
any violence-seeking reader, the upperclassmen voted not to attack the freshmen. Meetings were...held, and compromises were agreed upon and followed.
The next day President Smith granted Davidson College a vacation. The upperclassmen welcomed back the freshmen with cheers, and the
freshmen responded with the College yell. Pleased that his two children, ages seven and ten, will have the experience of
living in a college atmosphere, and will benefit from college events more than they were able to in Boston. The
Thomases have already purchased Artist Series tickets and have found an excellent piano teacher in Babbs McKelway. “I am in
utter amazement of the laundry service, which comes to my house to pick up my laundry, and then brings it
back to me. You just don’t find that in Boston.” He has found that there is much less diversity in
North Carolina than in a large northeastern city, and thus the culture here is “entirely different.” Culture shock has not
yet passed, but Thomas is happy here. Quoting John Reed, he said that he has “‘seen the future and it
works.”

Read profiles of new faculty members in Chapa Living weekly.

Continued from page 13

of Davidson College, not “minorities” in the abstract. Nothing about even the positions of the executive members (which is a
little scary for us, as you can imagine), and we hope that as CoMA takes on a definite shape, the
molding will be done by the hands of the entire student campus community. What does CoMA see as the definition
of a “minority”? That too must be defined by the community. Eight people out of a campus of 1500 cannot
dictate such an important matter. But even though CoMA realizes that it has no monopoly on defining minorities, it does
have concrete goals at this point, not held up for debate, because perhaps the most important. CoMA is extremely concerned
with giving a voice to Davidson’s “invisible” minority, the homosexual community. On a small homogeneous campus such as Davidson’s, intolerance
can easily drive anyone who dares to be different into silence and submission. It is painfully obvious that this is
the case with the homosexual community at Davidson, and CoMA wants to do its utmost to increase the representation of
this group. This statement may sound like just another idealistic platitude, but even if it is, it is a sincere
idealistic platitude, and we mean to back it up. CoMA cannot change the world, and it may not change Davidson,
but any failure will not be due to lack of effort. Our next meeting will be announced soon, so be
there if you want to be heard. We hope to be hearing from you, too!

Prem Manjooran ‘92
Courtney Nichols ‘92
Tina Smith ‘92
Jay Ferguson ‘93
Anthony Foxx ‘93
Paes Thompson ‘93
Teena Tide ‘94
Alden Smith ‘94

Join us for a fantastic adventure in the Abaco and Bimini Islands. This is not a “cruise,” but a fun,
learning vacation.

DAVIDSON OUTDOORS BAHAMA SAILING ADVENTURE
Saturday, Dec. 28 to Sunday, Jan. 5
Bahama Islands

Board the 57' Ketch “EVERGREEN” and sail the Bahamian seas. This trip will be filled with sailing, snorkeling, beachcombing, and
exploring shipwrecks and coral reefs. The emphasis will be on sailing and the oceangoing experience. We will contract a U.S.
Coast Guard licensed captain with sailing lessons, accommodations, etc. You will learn to set sails, steer a compass course, cast
off, anchor, and moor a “blue water” sailboat. Everyone will be given an equal share of duties, including preparing our
own meals (either in the boat's galley or on a cookout on the beach) from the lockers stocked by our
charter agent. You'll have the option to eat at a restaurant on one or two nights when we'll be in
port. Snorkeling and fishing gear are included with the sailboat, so we can explore shipwrecks and coral reefs. This is
a great opportunity for those interested in marine biology. All considered, this will be an action-packed week of “experiential” education
and wholesome fun!

COST: $425.00, includes all costs associated with the charter (boat, captain, food, fuel, dockage, and other incidental expenses), travel between
Davidson and Miami, and fees for our return trip on January 5. ADDITIONAL EXPENSES are up to the individual; $50.00
pocket money should be more than enough to cover meals in port, modest shopping, as well as three meals on
the road.

GROUP SIZE: 14 people maximum.
TRIP LEADER: Andrew Peary, DOTL

DEPOSIT OF $50.00 BY SEPTEMBER 22 RESERVES YOUR SPOT (non-refundable)
$150.00 DUE BY OCTOBER 20
BALANCE DUE BY NOVEMBER 20

SIGN UP AT THE UNION DESK!
