THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Real Diversity
By David Bernstein

“Diversity” is the new shibboleth of the self-appointed campus race monitors. They demand “diversity” of almost every kind—race, gender, sexual
orientation, even physical ability. What these folks won’t countenance, however, is diverse opinions. As a black college student at the
University of Maryland, I learned this truth the hard way. As a black conservative, I was ostracized by the people
who claimed to value difference because I was, well, different. They didn’t mind that I was black, of course, but
College Park’s politically correct student leadership seemed to prefer ideological lockstep within their “diverse” student body.

Fortunately, I was never subjected to the kind of overt intolerance that many black conservatives endure, but there was always
a palpable disdain for me and my views among other minority students. One black sophomore, for example, explained to me
that “white people are puttin’ those ideas in your head.” Another of my peers wrote in the student newspaper that
black conservatives must be “neutralized” (whatever that means). Still another person once complained, “you just don’t understand.” It came as
no surprise, then, when the president of Maryland’s Black Student Union refused to work with me and the other black
College Republican when we wanted to bring conservative black speakers to campus.

Like many black college students, I found the student leadership’s attempts to insulate me from diverse opinions condescending and antithetical
to the idea of a university education. Black collegians should learn to appreciate the rich heritage of intellectual debate and
dissent that has defined the black American experience. Men like W.E.B. Du Bois, Frederick Douglass, Booker T. Washington, Malcolm X,
and Martin Luther King, Jr., did not share a single set of ideas. Each came to his own conclusions through
study and honest reflection. If any of us hope to understand the “black thing” referred to by those popular T-shirts,
we must try a little study and reflection of our own.

In 1905, W.E.B. Du Bois scolded a young black girl when he explained that, “there are, in the U.S. today,
tens of thousands of colored girls who would be happy beyond measure to have the chance of educating themselves that
you are neglecting.” He further warned her that, “ignorance is a cure for nothing... every time a colored person neglects
an opportunity, it makes it more difficult for others of the race to get such an opportunity. Do you want
to cut off the chances of the boys and girls of tomorrow?”

The campus diversity mongers should ponder Du Bois’ words. Each time we refuse to consider diverse opinions, we are “neglecting
an opportunity” to learn. Each time a minority student leader demands “solidarity” from his peers, he makes it more difficult
for others of the race to get such an opportunity. And ignoring or extinguishing “western culture” in the curriculum is
truly a cure for nothing.

Perhaps more important, this desire for intellectual unanimity and separation threatens to undermine more than twenty-five years of civil rights
gains. Black Americans are closer than ever to being treated by white society simply as individuals, but now many minorities
themselves assert that race is the defining characteristic of every person. How quickly we forget that this was the very
attitude that made slavery possible, that has kept apartheid alive in South Africa, and that delivered Jews into the Holocaust.
I, for one, would rather the average American did not believe that all blacks act a particular way because they
are black! Similarly, I would rather not toss aside many of the great works (Note: The following syndicated column was
sent to us through a national writers service. The editors found the article meritorious of republication in The Davidsonian.) of
science, philosophy, and literature just because their authors were white. Black collegians can understand and appreciate James Madison, John Milton,
and Charles Darwin—just to mention a few examples—as well as any white student. To suggest otherwise is racism in its
pristine form.

My college experience has not left me as discouraged as it might have because I believe there has been a
quiet reawakening of independence among most young minorities. During the past year, I have met several other young college graduates
who agree that we need more genuine diversity of thought. Together we have begun a magazine, appropriately entitled Diversity, which
will explore issues of race and culture free from pressures to conform to the new, self-imposed stereotype. I hope this
modest effort will spark other young minorities to break free from the orthodoxy as well.

Questionin’ That: On a Certain Particular Advertisement

Our two anonymous students are holding their bi-weekly discussion in the weight room of the Baker Sports Complex... They’ve just
finished their workout, and now they begin to converse while they relax in the fetal position, periodically taking a moment
to writhe in pain. [Columnists’ note: The flyer depicted in this column is based on an actual party flyer distributed
by actual eating house members.]

J: So tell me buddy, if we manage to stand up and make it out of here by nightfall, what
are you going to be up to tonight?

A: I don’t know what I’m going to do tonight.... Hey, what’s that on the Lapko machine?

J: I can’t seem to make it out... it seems to be some sort of a message—a flyer perhaps. Yes!
As a matter of fact, it is a flyer, advertising another one of Patterson Court’s fun-filled nocturnal gatherings.

A: Urghhh! (He says struggling out of the fetal position). I’m raring to go, the music, the dancing, the sparkling
conversation and, of course, those wayward souls staggering around because they are high on life.

J: I don’t want to kill your party spirit, and I know that this may sound like a stupid question,
but would you presently classify yourself as a lesbian or wombat?

A: And if I was?

J: Well, it says here on the flyer that lesbians andwombats should not attend. Doesn’t that seem rather strange considering
the fact that, with the exception of wombats, both are part of the Davidson community?

A: I don’t agree, my brother. Lesbians, and gays for that matter, are not a part of this community because
the community alienates them and would rather pretend that they didn’t exist. They say that homosexual-bashing is the last publicly
permissible form of defamation. This flyer is just evidence of a huge problem on this campus.

J: Hmmm, I guess I never really thought of it that way. I mean, I guess I just figured that,
since gays and lesbians are here just like the rest of us, they were automatically a part of this community.
Now that I think about it, though, I’ve never actually met anyone on campus that I know to be a
homosexual.

A: If I was a homosexual, or a wombat for that matter, I would be reluctant to open myself up
to anyone.

J: It seems sad that at a so-called liberal arts institution people would feel apprehensive about being themselves. But you
know, if somehow gays and lesbians would come out of hiding, then campus awareness could be raised, and some attitudes
might even be changed.

A: Even so, the onus is on us all to be open enough to include everyone.

J: Yeah, you’re right, it would be unfair to ask gays and lesbians to take responsibility for eliminating the prejudices
and fears of everyone else. But attitudes regarding homosexuality are so deep-rooted, almost to the point of impermeability. How can
we break them? Where do we start?

A: I don’t know. Perhaps we’ve already started -- but in the wrong direction. There are two kinds of fear
on this subject: the fear of the known and the fear of the unknown. Homosexuals fear the repercussions they know
they’ll face, and everyone else’s fear arises out of ignorance.

J: I suppose I’ll just start by working on my own ignorance now that I’ve pumped up my pecs and
triceps. Hey! I think I’ve regained motor control over the lower half of my body!

A: Yeah, well, I’ve got to get out of here. Where did I leave my cap?

J: You’re wearing it, which is of course against weight room rules. Let’s sneak on out before the Athletic Director
sees us. When shall we talk yet once again?

A: How about next week?

J: Better make that two weeks. Peace.

A: Peace.

Cabe Loring: Sitting in the Back Row

This week’s topic in the Back Row is a problem of serious dimensions. It is not a humorous column this
week, but a grave probe into how the disintegration of American morals is displayed on television, and other aspects of
art. I was sitting in my room a few days ago, and the sit-com “Married With Children” came on my
television. I have never seen such a trashy television show in my entire life. It displays a portrayal of American
life in a twisted and demented fashion that is only funny because it is so horrible. It is sad to
think that young viewers watch this refuse and enjoy it. The most scary part of the whole thing is that
this type of television really influences children to think that this is the way an American family functions. People may
argue this point of influence, and in retaliation I give you the movie New Jack City. This movie is not
excessively violent, but it prompted people to shoot one another. The reason for this is probably because the violence that
does exist is portrayed as casual and as an everyday occurrence.

Then there is the show “Beverly Hills 90210”, which is as appalling if not more so than “Married With Children.”
It basically displays children as adults. This show deals with extremely mature themes and does not offer any positive contributions
to American youth. It is ridiculous how this show is so praised when it really encourages pre-marital sex at a
young age and disrespect. Some people may say that pre-marital sex is not a bad thing. In response to this,
I point out the divorce rate in America, which is not the way it is simply because people cannot get
along that well, “the way they used to.” There is also the slew of public figures like Clarence Thomas who
have to deal with sexual pasts and whose private lives become the focal point of millions. I don’t mean to
sound holier-than-thou, but when we look at the problems of youth corruption in the nation today, and see politicians and
citizens wondering, “How did this happen?,” I want to hand them a remote control.

The same thing is apparent in literature and music. The book Silence of the Lambs was a good piece of
literature that had a clever storyline. While involving violence, it had a good enough plot to excuse it. Then, after
the success of the movie rendition of Silence of the Lambs, we see Bret Easton Ellis come out with American
Psycho (clever title) in a blatant attempt to simply make money off being more disgusting than any of the other
previous psychological thrillers. Ellis’s book graphically displays such violence that at least one publisher refused to print it. It seems
as though the more vile you can be, the more successful you can be. What is scary is that the
media works to help out the amoral pieces of “art” be successful, and the strategy works.

With music, the profane lyrics get all the publicity, and then the “artists”, such as the band members of Two
Live Crew, come out looking like American heroes claiming that they are trying to exercise their first amendment rights, but
are not being allowed to. The whole issue comes down to impressions. These influences seen through television and the media
create dramatic impressions on the youth of today. Rather than curb today’s entertainment to be worse than the public actions,
which stimulates morbid curiosity and encourages decay while making profits, why not increase the...

See "T.V. Sucks” on page 8.
