THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

If You Don't Know, You'd Better Ask Somebody
By Tina Smith

If this piece is printed it will probably appear in the opinion section, but it will be news to some.
Yes, it’s finally time for me to write to the Davidsonian. It's my senior year and I have sat and
watched issues rise and fall on the pages of “The South’s Foremost College Weekly.” Until now, I had only donned
the soapbox for my lucky roommates and/or good friends at the dinner table. But the last issue of the Davidsonian
(October 28, 1991) enraged me so much that I just couldn't help but write in with my $1.50 --- that
is putting in more than my “2 cents worth.”

It all started with the story on Nikki Giovanni. Not only was the grammar poor, but the structure and content
of the piece were less than what I would expect from a news editor. For those who may not have
known who Nikki Giovanni is (and judging from Davidson’s curriculum that wouldn’t be unusual), the “article” --- and I use
the term loosely --- was not enlightening. Among the first things I was told as a work-study student for Bill
Giduz (News Director, College Relations) was that every news story should have a thorough account of who, what, when, where,
and why. The Giovanni piece had only her name and current occupation as the who, Thursday night as the when,
and a lot of misquoted statements from her speech as the what. Perhaps, the author of the article should have
read the story on Major General Buster C. Glosson for some guidelines as to the proper form and format for
an informational article on a prominent figure. Or he could have found someone who did know about Ms. Giovanni and
had gone to the talk to help him with the article, because, in the words of somebody's mama, “If you
don’t know, you'd better ask somebody!” My deepest disappointment, however, lies in the fact that the editor of the newspaper
allowed such a poorly written story to go to press.

It was almost by accident that I read the article “To Hell With It.” The title caught my eye because
it expressed my mood after reading the articles on the electric jello fliers and multiculturalism. I was feeling “to hell
with Davidson” and wondering for the 50th time why I didn’t go to State or Carolina with the rest of
my high school class, or better yet to Howard, so I could at least have a decent social life. But
that's a different story.

I was totally shocked by the paragraph which read, “Recently, fans of the Atlanta Braves were chastised for their tendency
to do the Tomahawk Chop for hours on end as their team defied the odds on the playing field. That
anyone would find so benign a gesture offensive to Native Americans is ridiculous as far as I can tell.” The
author could have at least said, “I understand why Native Americans are upset, but I don’t agree with that reaction,
because the Braves fans mean no harm.” But instead, he wrote the whole sentiment off as “ridiculous.” If the Atlanta
Braves were called the Atlanta Homeboys and fans dressed up in Afro wigs and went around with chicken bones shouting
“Yo! Yo! Yo!” you can best believe I would be offended. Not based on whether or not the fans meant
me any harm, but more because it is a misrepresentation of black people. As Nikki Giovanni said, “no people should
have to be a mascot.” If I patted the back of someone with a sunburn, the gesture is benign, but
it still inflicts pain. So, if an American Indian says to me, “It offends me to be called a ‘brave’
and for people to do tomahawk gestures,” I would not be so immature or insensitive as to call his feelings
“ridiculous.” One person's benign is another person's pain, and if you can’t understand that person's pain, “you'd better ask somebody!”

* I have to credit Joy Grey for this line.

Tina Smith is a senior psychology major from Fayetteville, NC.

Foxx continued from page 4

“Multiplicity of cultures” on this campus. But how much interaction is spurred between these groups? How much of that interaction
makes us really consider how we govern ourselves as we relate? Most of us have little basis for relating closely
with people who fall outside our comfort zones, and one of the most comfortless zones is our collective perception of
race, particularly between white and black people. Interestingly, multiculturalism, according to our understanding, offers a novel response to the idea
of race and its role in our lives. It says simply that race is a non-factor in social relationships; cultural
similarities and differences are what really bind and separate us. We can debate the merits of this argument for days,
but suffice it to say that it gives our organization a model to channel honest and thoughtful discussion.

I apologize if I was responsible for the misconceptions of Mr. Atchison and others. For us, multiculturalism is a tool,
not a movement. SERCH searches for common ground and understanding between people who otherwise might not have interacted. On that
level, I think SERCH is right on target.

Sincerely,
Anthony R. Foxx

Peters continued from page 4

We also never intended to imply a familiarity with bisexual forays into necrophilia with animals. This was merely a satirical
way of showing the ridiculous nature of some of Ms. Blaise’s articles. We apologize for inadvertently poking fun at any
of Jessica Reinertsen’s fetishes. Finally, and most truthfully, any “intelligent sexually active female” will see our letter for whatIt was
an attempt to rile up the anal-retentive campus population.

Anxious for Understanding, Jonathan Peters and Others

Bennet Continued from page 4

Reader that does not have any prior knowledge related to the life of Nikki Giovanni or even some knowledge of
her poetry to be able to gain a “real” sense of what Nikki Giovanni represents? I suggest that in the
future you conduct some sort of research prior to writing an article of this stature; furthermore, I feel that since
you are the editor of the newspaper, you should know the importance of such matters as this. Is it not
the job of the newspaper to present facts and enlighten the mind of the reader?

Sincerely,
Lannie Bennett ‘95

Peppers Continued from page 4

Myopic morality on campus. Yes, the law gives us the right to call anyone a wop, kike, dike, fag, nigger,
skirt, bag, broad, or chink. It also gives us the right to draw posters of swastikas, women in bondage, slaves
being lynched, rape scenes, and other degradations of our fellow human beings. I call on Davidson students to add caring
to mere law. I propose that we all consider being responsible for our ethics—to take the stand of going further
than the law and to form a morality that respects and cares for others.

Sincerely,
Susan Peppers

Player continued from page 4

Piece. Obviously, Mr. Koonce needs to learn to write his reviews in such a way that the reader can understand
the context and significance of a speech. He uses the word “moving” in his article but the only thing we
are moved to do is throw away this piece of trash. We will attempt to address some of the discrepancies
in his article:

Ms. Giovanni said that if society feels that changes should be made it is not our place to ask, “Why
now? Why wasn’t this brought up earlier?” These questions are not important; society should just make the appropriate changes. She
went on to comment about racism and this issue of change. Her correct quote should be, “It's foolish that in
1991 we have so much racism.” Regarding the issue of white America, she said, “No one wants to be named
by white America anymore.” She expressed frustration regarding how white America feels that it has the right to name everything,
no matter who they hurt, degrade, or humiliate in the process.

Contrary to Mr. Koonce’s belief, Ms. Giovanni is not an advocate of a Senior Citizens NASA program. Her basic reason
for mentioning space was to stress the point of how our society expects to live with others on another planet,
yet we cannot live with each other on this planet. (Unfortunately, the reader is never able to grasp this concept
because it is haphazardly placed at the end of two nonsense paragraphs.)

The idea that aliens should land in the black community because “we're indifferent” must be addressed in context. Ms. Giovanni
was merely saying that the black community is such a multicultural entity that we would be less biased and more
accepting than other cultures. Before we are taken out of context, this article is not meant to spark any controversy.
Our only intention is to clarify the injustice given to our black poet laureate, Ms. Nikki Giovanni. But the question
still remains whether Mr. Koonce really understands Ms. Giovanni's concept of people, one dealing with coherence and unity. However, if
these themes cannot be found within elementary paragraphs, how can we expect anything more? No wonder he didn’t get it
right.

Jana Player ‘92
Cornelia Holloman ‘92

Phi Delt continued from page 4

Actually accompanies the song they performed, many spectators thought the young men were reenacting a gang rape or a sick
sexual fantasy for the “enjoyment” of the viewing audience. As members of Phi Delt, we believe that everyone in attendance
deserves an apology, for we in no way wish to promote gang rape and find no humor with anyone who
does. Although personally we were unable to attend Air Band this year, we can think of no situation where such
actions would be acceptable. Davidson's campus is a microcosm of the society in which we are expected to participate as
intelligent adults, and if such acts are glorified on the national scale the way they were that night, we all
struggle with the curse of living in one of the world’s most barbaric and perverted countries. This letter is not
simply written to a select group of women who disagreed with the actions of one particular act. It is aimed
at those people who have faced the horrors of rape and had to deal with its ramifications. It also speaks
to a dying breed of people who have good morals and a sense of the idea of what “clean fun”
is all about. Granted it is often more difficult for a man to sympathize with a female victim of rape
than it is for a woman, but men should imagine how they would feel if they were informed that their
mother or sister had been gang-raped or sexually abused. Although we are sure that the participants did not intend for
the act to be seen in the fashion that it has been perceived, we can only apologize for ourselves as
members of Phi Delt and ensure concerned students that such actions will not be allowed as long as we remain
members. The purpose of Air Band is not to offend people by glorifying society's most vicious crimes, but unfortunately, such
was the case in this year’s competition. From the accounts that we have heard, the performance was not well accepted
by the audience which does indeed give us a good deal of respect for those onlookers who refused to support
such a ludicrous act.

Sincerely,
Jay Dalton
Jebo Barnes
