THE DAVIDSONIAN

Post-War Conflicts Arise at Nebraska, Berkeley

(CPS) - Almost a month after the U.S. suspended offensive military actions in the Persian Gulf region, war aftershocks rippled
through several campuses. A group called BURP (Berkeleyans United for a Right Press) stole 16,000 copies of the Daily Californian
off newsstands on March 24, calling the effort a protest of the paper’s lack of coverage of the U.S. victory
in the war. “Today we have freed the campus of your vile reporting, but only for a day,” a BURP
letter sent to the Californian’s office read.

Three days earlier, University of Nebraska-Lincoln junior Paul Koester filed an official complaint to get UNL officials to take down
a big yellow ribbon draped over the entrance to a campus classroom building. The ribbon, Koester says, suggests “blind support”
for U.S. Persian Gulf Policy, and violated university bans on putting political posters or displays on campus trees, windows, doors,
walls, buildings, or fence posts.

Maki Mandela Draws Protest At Iowa State

AMES, Iowa (CPS) - Holding signs linking African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela to the Palestine Liberation Organization, communism, and
the Irish Republican Army, members of the conservative Young Americans for Freedom picketed an Iowa State University address by Maki
Mandela, the anti-apartheid activist’s daughter. The protesters hoped to “raise awareness to the acts of terrorism the African National Congress
is carrying out,” YAF state chairman Greg Getterman told the Iowa State Daily. “Mr. Mandela is just a communist agent,”
added YAF adviser and University of Iowa professor Enrique Fernandez-Barros. “South Africa was built by white people who created the
way of life of the Afrikaners. I don’t want to build up the myth of Mandela like the myth of
Gandhi was built up.”

Murders Rock Campuses

(CPS) - The series of campus murders grew longer on March 20 when Paula Soto, 19, a student at Lehman
College in New York, was shot and killed by a small-caliber stray bullet while playing softball on a campus field.
Six execution-style slayings within two weeks near the campus, meanwhile, have frightened students at the California State University at Sacramento.
In late February, a Purdue University employee shot and killed Barbara A. Clark, 41, a campus service supervisor, while she
sat at her desk.

Funding Cuts Shut Down Services, Raise Tuition Nationwide

(CPS) - At least a dozen more campuses announced they would have to eliminate courses, enlarge class sizes, raise tuition,
and take other measures to cope with money problems brought on by the recession gripping the nation. In Oregon, for
example, Linn-Benton Community College announced it would eliminate campus mail service next year to save money, while Arizona’s Pima College
trustees said they may have to raise tuition almost 20 percent while cutting the number of course sessions. Ohio’s state
campuses will have to cut library hours and close out course sections, Ohio Board of Regents Chancellor Elaine Hairston added
in legislative testimony on March 21. Yale University dropped its popular “Study of the City” course, while the University of
Pennsylvania said it would have to lay off 300 people. In New Jersey, Rutgers University threatened to impose a wage
freeze and a 9 percent tuition hike for next year.

-Alcohol Continued from Page 1

that in a trial the House would most likely be at fault for placing a table or similar object at
the entrance or exit of the drinking area. This is because the table in effect is a service area. The
House may therefore be charged for serving minors if a minor were to take a drink from the table. Since
the Houses only serve to those of legal age, they should not be blamed for the fault of an individual
who may leave a drink on the table. A more practical effect of this will be the slowing down of
the amount of alcohol brought out of the designated drinking area. This will help curb underage and excessive drinking. The
additional changes made by the P.C.C. should not be considered token efforts to appease the Trustees. Their focus has been
to remove the blame from the College and the House(s) sponsoring the party if for some reason there were an
accident.

Congratulations to the new Phi Beta Kappa inductees:
Suresh Kumar Acharya
Arthur Andersen Burroughs
Jacqueline Aileen Bussie
Peter Alexander Bynum
Margaret McQueen Carroll
Sigrid Taylor Cook
Rose Tindal DavisDifficulty is that there has never been a case of host liability in North Carolina to date. Thus,
it is difficult to guess what the outcome would be in a court case. The changes recommended by the P.C.C.,
however, are expected to greatly reduce the risk of culpability to the College and to the Houses.

Mathabane gave an emotional speech to the Davidson audience.

Author Mathabane
By David Smyth

Mark Mathabane, South African-born author of Kaffir Boy and Kaffir Boy in America, spoke last Thursday in the 900 Room
to a near-capacity crowd of students and faculty. His powerfully moving speech brought a standing ovation at its conclusion and
left some students in tears at its poignant message. His talk comprised a brief outline of his life and an
urgent endorsement of liberal education in general.

Mathabane was born in Alexandra, a black ghetto of South Africa, in 1960. He rarely had enough food to eat,
as his parents had almost no money due to bureaucratic problems disallowing them from working. Police raids would routinely terrorize
his neighborhood and arrest black adults whose requisite pass books were not in order. When Mathabane was five, he was
forced to take charge of the household in such forays to hide his parents as well as he could, frequently
finding himself being beaten by the frustrated police in retaliation for his success.

Through the superhuman efforts of his mother, he was able to attend and thrive in school, despite all the obstacles
of apartheid and economic realities. The virtues of education were slowly but surely inculcated in his young mind, the seeds
that would inspire him to fight the system with all of his strength and eventually escape to the United States
with a tennis scholarship.

Mathabane’s arrival in America was not the end of his struggle, though, and in many ways, it was just the
beginning. He was dismayed to see some of the same racial barriers in more subtle forms over here. He said,
“I did not escape the apartheid of South Africa to end up segregated in America.” Interwoven throughout the speech were
repeated entreaties to make use of the superior educational resources that are available to us as American citizens and members
of the College community. He said that we have a responsibility as members of such a society to better ourselves
through learning to better understand others and thus help the plights of others. “Read,” Mathabane urged, “it’s as simple as
that.”

Sarah Miles Dean
John David Dillon
Wendy G. Dunn
Lindsey Merrill Forsythe
Melissa Garner
Lisa Michelle Gerrard
George Douglas Gibson
Molly Lynne Graver
William Barron Grow
C. Lindsay Hite
Cynthia Dibrellé Howard
Helen Scott Hughes
Jennifer Whiting McDonald
John Terry Maheras
Melissa Joan Meegan
Leah Cantey Millar
Kathryn Ann Mitchem
Shawn Kendall Murphy
Susan Joyce Ott
Mark Allen Pospesel
Keeely Jo Schneider
Kimberly Ann Short
Amitabh Sonthalia
Sharon Lynette Thompson
Robert Garland
Christopher Todd Wenze
Sara Catherine Wilson
William Marvin Wilson III

S.H.O.C.C.
Are you willing to be S.H.O.C.C.ed?
Want to help with health awareness and education? Sign up to join the Student Health Options and Concerns Committee. Applications
available in the infirmary and the Dean of Students Office. 20 Students will be selected.
Questions? Call: Georgia Ringle, David Wright, Amy Howard
