18 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

Davidson Sports Shorts

Basketball Ticket Policy Set - After some consideration by the SGA Student Athletics Council, the 1991-92 basketball ticket policy has been finalized. The first two rows of student seats can be picked up on a first-come, first-served basis beginning at 8:30 a.m. the day before Tuesday-Saturday games, and the day of Monday games. As in the past, each student in line may claim five tickets (with five IDs). The remainder of the student seats will be taken on a general admission basis beginning one hour before tipoff. Block seating will be accommodated in this way. As a general rule, though, one must be present to claim a seat. Each student will be entitled to one guest, who will be admitted for one-half the regular $6.00 ticket price. The policy goes into effect immediately.

Davidson 1st in Commissioner's Cup Race - Davidson holds first place in the Big South Conference Commissioner's Cup standings after the fall sports season. The Cup is awarded each May to the conference school which has the best record in conference competition in the 12 sports which the Big South sponsors. The Wildcats’ fourth place in men’s soccer, fifth place in men’s cross-country, and second places in women’s cross-country and volleyball gave them a total of 23 points. Second place Campbell had 21.5 points and third place Liberty 21 points.

Men’s Hoops Signs Three Recruits - Davidson basketball signed three high school seniors to national letters of intent when the early signing period began on Saturday.

Brandon Williams, Women's Basketball Gains Experience In Scrimmage Against Belmont Abbey - By Stuart Smalley

A somewhat unprepared Davidson women’s basketball team met its first intercollegiate competition in five years Tuesday in an informal scrimmage with Belmont Abbey. Though somewhat overmatched and suffering noticeably from a lack of practice, the Wildcats turned in a scrappy performance, losing 22-11 and 18-13 in a pair of ten-minute quarters at the end of the scrimmage. The team had experienced less than a week of organized practice, since several members of the team played fall sports (and coach John Filar was occupied as assistant volleyball coach), and it showed. They looked ragged throughout the evening, committing numerous turnovers and looking somewhat confused on offense, but that was to be expected. Adding to their problems was the fact that they played a Belmont Abbey team that was an NAIA Sectional Champion a year ago.

During much of the scrimmage, Davidson could do little to stop the Belmont Abbey offense. The Wildcats had trouble containing the Belmont Abbey post players, and their sagging defense left the Belmont Abbey guards open for baseline jump shots. Nonetheless, there were bright spots for Davidson. One came with 9:45 remaining in the penultimate quarter, when senior Skye MacLeod’s two free throws gave the Wildcats a 2-0 advantage, their first lead of the 1990s. They held the lead for some 6 minutes, even pushing it to 7-2 when senior Faison Nuckolls scored on an offensive rebound with 7:00 left. But the full-court press brought Belmont Abbey back; they converted numerous steals into easy baskets, and ran away with a 22-11win. The final period saw the 'Cats' first comeback of the decade. Belmont Abbey jumped out to a 6-1 lead, but Davidson crept back into the game. After Katrina O'Neill's putback basket made it 6-3, Courtney Robertson tied the game with a fast-break three-point play. MacLeod's two free throws gave the 'Cats a 10-8 lead with 2:15 left, and the game went back and forth into the final minute, when a late run by the Abbey sealed the 18-13 outcome. Still, Filar was content with the scrimmage. Considering the lack of practice time and the very youth of the program, not much could have been expected from their first game. But Davidson did turn in a consistently intense performance, prompting Filar to say that he was "pleased with the effort." Nuckolls led the Wildcats with 10 points and 9 rebounds; MacLeod also scored 10 and grabbed 7 boards.

Hess Makes Sweet Sixteen At ITCA Southeast Regional
Davidsonian Staff Reports

Number one player Cyndi Hess, in one of the finest individual performances in Davidson women's tennis history, won two matches to advance to the third round of the highly competitive Rolex ITCA Regional Championship last weekend in Greensboro. The ITCA Regional in Greensboro was one of eight regional tournaments across the country that matched the finest players in each region in individual competition. The 12 individual seeds in the tournament were garnered primarily by players from ACC programs and South Carolina, many of them in or near the national top 25. The finalists in the singles draw of 64 and the 32-team doubles draw advanced to the ITCA National Championship to be held later this year in Minneapolis.

Hess' two wins marked the first time a Davidson woman had ever advanced beyond the first round of the tournament. In the first round, she whipped Kim Touhey of East Tennessee State, 6-2, 6-0. She thrashed Alex Simm of Louisville by an identical score in her second round match. Hess finally fell to defeat in the third round, losing by a 6-2, 6-3 score to 8th-seeded Angela Bernal of North Carolina. Davidson's Jennifer Beahm and Tasha Ruth both suffered first-round setbacks at the hands of Duke players, while Wildcat freshman Kimberley Nance lost to 12th-seeded Elisha Portnoy of UNC. The doubles team of Ruth and Barbara Grooms advanced to the second round when their UNCG opponents retired (4-6, 6-3, 1-0 ret.). They lost in the second round to a Clemson doubles team ranked in the top 20 in the nation. The other Davidson doubles entry, Hess and Nance, lost in the opening round to a top 20 team from Duke.

Davidson coach Caroline Brown-Price was, of course, impressed with Hess' performance, and also saw the value of the tournament as a learning experience for her players. Price characterized the event as "a fun challenge."

Photo By Bull Giduz, Courtesy of College Relations

Clockwise from top: Kimberly Nance, Cyndi Hess, Barbara Grooms, Natasha Ruth, and Jennifer Beahm

DISTINCTIVE and Affordable Apparel for 79 Continuous Years

DRESS WEAR--FORMAL WEAR--CAMPUS WEAR--CASUAL WEAR--or for just plain goofing. Quality and Fashion Apparel for MEN & WOMEN

John Mock & Son
128 N. Main Street
Local Call: 664-4711
Downtown Manteo
CHARGE ACCOUNTS INVITED