THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991 7

Is The "No Hats" Rule Just Part of a Territorial Dispute?
By Phillip Atchison

In early September, I wore a hat into the Davidson Weight Room. A “no hat” rule had been instituted in
the weight room at the beginning of school, maybe earlier. Everyone who happened to don a cap as they improved
their health, of course, flagrantly broke this inane rule. One day I was asked to remove my hat by Beth
Manson, the Assistant Track and Field Coach. I refused because I thought the rule was groundless and trifling. She fetched
Sterling Martin, the Assistant Athletic Director, in hopes that he could produce a reason for the “no hat” rule. He
politely informed me that he hoped that his son would know that wearing a hat indoors is a sign of
poor breeding. I concurred, but is a weight room to be held in the same light as your grandmother’s parlour?
I continued my exercise, head covered.

A short while after this run-in with the law, I received a letter from Terry Holland, Davidson Athletic Director. The
letter was an attempt on his part to explain, to justify the “no hat” rule, the rule originating from him
of course. He sent both the Student Athletic Committee and President Kuykendall copies of his letter. I feel that the
student body as a whole should be aware of the content of the letter and what it reveals about our
Athletic Director’s attitude.

There were basically three reasons in this letter which Holland felt justified his rule. The first was the safety factor.
Holland said that he had witnessed an accident in another weight room where “both the spotter and the lifter received
fairly minor bruises.” He did not elaborate upon this freak accident, but the dangers of a “falling cap” are fantasy.
There is not an exercise or machine in the weight room that, by wearing a hat, one could endanger his
life.

Next, he offered a little cultural analogy. Terry Holland would expect me to remove my hat in his office, and
likewise “a Japanese family living in a home here at Davidson” would expect me to remove my shoes in their
home.

David Scott: Depth! Relevance! Just Gimme Something, Anything, PLEASE!

Depth! Relevance! began as a close-knit bunch of kids with a dream -- oh! if we could only have a
column -- and we acted on that dream. Scribbling till sunup in half-lit attics, (dribbling till sundown like half-cocked spastics),
we fought and we clawed for the turning of phrase, bleeding for words, not numbering days. Till pages and columns
segued from our heads, (not washing our hair, we sprouted thick dreads). Nothing else mattered, not hygiene, not passion; till
words poured forth naturally -- sort of -- at least in our fashion.

One day we looked up, caught our eyes in the mirror; ‘people’, we said (heart thrilling in terror), ‘we’re ready
to hit it, hit the big time; no one might get it, but let’s try out our rhyme’ -- in
the Davidsonian. It was quite a step. But through perseverance, diligence, and a complete lack of shame, we plugged along
through these numberless weeks bringing you, well, maybe not all of you, but at least some of you, (though even
that may be an authorial pipe dream), let’s hope at least one or two of you at the absolute minimum,
pleasure.

But our numbers are small. The strain is beginning to tell on some of our members, and we need help.
That's the subject of our little vane week. HELP! We founders of the Society feel certain that we do not
have a monopoly on Deep! and Relevant! thoughts at Davidson. You people have them, admit it. And it’s O.K. Nobody’s
gonna’ make fun of you. More than likely they won't even notice (case in point, the editors have yet to
receive, after almost a year of D!/R!, any letter, positive or negative, of any sort in response to this our
little passion).

So strap some on! Jot down your little earth-numbing musings and send ‘em in! As we have insisted in the
past, the only thing off limits in good-solid-collegiate-journalism is good-solid-journalism, so give it a whirl (and us a week off).
Embarrassing stories would be good: Roast your roommate, flay your friend, ridicule everyone again and again! (The preceding sentence should
be chanted to the tune of your favorite ditty from the cartoon version of the Hobbit). Or solve the problem
of campus morale, or is it morality? (whichever one the Fight Song’s talking about). Anybody can make a funny about
that.

Or just rave. The verbal equivalent of a fist-pounding, foot-stompin’, red-faced fit always makes for a good read. Or even
just a scrunch-faced, juvenile, pout-lipped tiff might do. We’re open to all.

If people really respond, maybe we’ll start up a new section in the Davidsonian. News, Sports, Arts, etc. and D!/R!,
News For the Topically Impaired. Fortunately, this week a kind soul has offered his services in relief of the beleaguered
D!/R! executives. You might call our guest a sort of ‘peripatetic pontificator.’ Seeking a playing field on which to lob
his wisdom, he found us and for this, we thank him.

First, a brief biographical sketch. Our guest this week, a precocious child, sat up by week 2 and crawled off
at five (a near, near rhyme). A tough tot he was, a death-wish some said; always crawling and falling and
hitting his head. At the age of two months, he followed a slinky; set throbbing down stairs by his big
brother, Stinky. “Chinka-Chinka” it went, it slunk and it flowed; he thought it looked cool, so down the stairway he
goed. Pin-wheeling path, (the staircase was spiral); he crashed and he burned.

“It’s even hard for me to imagine that if I [Holland] visited you at your dorm room and you asked
me to remove my shoes that I would not do so.” Such deductive prowess led to this logical conclusion: It
would be disrespectful to not remove my shoes in a Japanese home, and hence my refusal to remove my hat
in the weight room is disrespectful to Terry Holland.

It readily became apparent at this point in the letter that this entire issue was about the respect to which
Terry Holland feels entitled. Holland wrote: “Have I done something personally...to deserve your disrespect? If that is true, then let’s
deal with what we’ve really done that’s important enough to have earned your disrespect rather than talking about the ‘no
hats policy’ in the weight room. If it’s truly just the matter of the hat, then it comes down to
how you regard the folks around here... There are still a number of students who regard us as their servants
and that we should mop up after them and pick up their trash anddo what they ‘want’ as but this
kid was virile. The slinky, (quite slower than had been his plummet), plopped down and brought him more joy than
a trumpet. Good thing it was, for he’d started to cry; his head hurt a bit, and he thought he
might die. At last, he could grasp it, and it gave him such glee; that he laughed and he gummed
it like a very cute baby. With chain link in mouth, and pride in his mane; off crawled our infant,
a slinky his train.

Our guest has also appeared as an extra in no less than twelve Kenny Rogers movies and once got himself
punched in the nose by The Gambler himself in that late-night classic, The Coward of the County (he played a
Gatlin’ Boy). A part-time adventurer and stuntman, he freely submitted to being crushed between two gigantic tractor-trailers for $7.50 an
hour plus overtime (Smokey & the Bandit Part 1.3*10/23 (“Hey, it’s cash,” our guest grunted)). He revels in the search
for Incan ruins in the Amazonian rainforest, easy money, and blondes (P.S. if Jo Burrows is listening, he would love
to be paid for a date. Any date). Now, please welcome Mr. L’ser (luh-sér), a Davidson graduate and proof positive
that there’s work out there for English majors if they’re just willing to look.

“Thank you, thank you D!/R!. The title of my presentation today is, ‘666, Recollections of The Davidson Experience.’ I began
at Davidson in my eighteenth year. OK. Well. Looks like we’ve run out of space for Mr. L’ser, but it’s
just as well; you’ll all get to hear him again at Spring Convocation. But we’re still serious about guest writers.
We even want your bio. So... WRITE FOR DEPTH! RELEVANCE! PLEASE!

Opposed to what ‘they’ need us to do. "That’s why this [hat rule] becomes a non-negotiable item as far as
I am concerned. There are a large number of people in this department who are working long hours to accommodate
the needs of students. However, I draw the line at serving the needless wants of students... If students do not
respect the employees of this building, then it is just a matter of time before we will all lose our
respect for the students. That has happened before.” Holland ends this defensive whine with words that could have been included
in the Versailles Treaty: “We cannot satisfy 1,494 different masters, but that should not even be what we are expected
to do. If bridges are to be rebuilt, there must be give and take on both sides and respect for
cultural territory must be recognized.”

Why does the chosen apparel of the Davidson student involve the Baker staff? Is Holland bitter about the blandness of
his new job? Is he so consumed with boredom that he seizes upon the most trivial matter and turns it
into a territorial battle? How is my wearing a hat in the weight room a sign of disrespect for Davidson’s
Athletic Director, other than the fact that I am breaking one of his asinine rules, a rule that assuages his
apparently hungry ego? Finally, couldn’t Mr. Holland direct his energies toward more legitimate issues, i.e. wallets being repeatedly stolen from
varsity athletes’ locker rooms? I was personally insulted by the tone and content of this letter. I felt that Mr.
Holland depicted Davidson students as spoiled brats, treating the employees and the facilities of the Baker Sport Complex as we
wish. He has somehow envisioned the “no hat” rule as a means to discipline us, to reestablish his “territory.” I
suggest Holland find other means by which to assert himself and his staff, because the “no hat” rule is ignored
and unenforced.

Phillip Atchison is a junior English major from Ruston, Louisiana.

FLAG Continued from page 5

Can you hear it? -- “What’s wrong with you? Why wasn’t your name on the petition?” To avoid this situation,
the editors decided not to print the petition in the opinions section as FLAG’s first piece of publicity. They suggested
instead that FLAG produce an editorial outlining its goals and strategy and allowing those interested in supporting or helping the
group to sign up in the Union or Chambers. This would have allowed for a more broadly based effort, one
that would exclude no one (except those who do not read the Davidsonian) and so not leave those unfamiliar with
the effort open to unfair criticism or judgment.

Well, this suggestion enraged the FLAG organizers. The night the editor-in-chief told them about it, he received several angry and
hostile phone calls. They weren’t quite the kind that anonymous harassers are known to give homosexuals, but they were hostile
nonetheless. One suggested a visit to the college Media Board to ask it to change the editors’ decision for him,
while another claimed that he was wholly unfit to be the newspaper's editor, as he was discriminating against a certain
group. He was finally told that “there's a group getting together to make sure you publish that petition as an
opinions piece whether you like it or not.” These people did not realize that they were playing out the very
situation that the editors had feared. Because they perceived that the editor was not on their side -- the one
they felt was the right side -- they attacked him with vehemence and scorn. It seems that this organization, founded
to promote understanding, failed in this instance, engaging “behind the scenes” in threats and strong-arming.

Now, I understand the argument the FLAG people had in favor of printing the petition. They felt that Davidson needed
a “shock” to make it aware of the problem. The thought that breeds discrimination, though, is deep-rooted, and a shock
will not change it. We need instead exactly what FLAG originally said we need -- education. Regardless of what the
FLAG organizers think and the lengths they will go to to have it printed, a petition will not serve as
a quick way to awaken this community to better attitudes. I propose that FLAG rethink its strategy, and resolve to
work for a less radical change, one that this community can handle better. And abandoning the “shock tactic” will let
them treat others involved with the same respect they are trying to promote for gays and lesbians.

In closing, let me stress again that I support the ideals behind FLAG. The whole point of this piece, in
fact, is to make suggestions that I feel will help to ensure the success of the organization. It just seems
that these people need to stop waving the FLAG and start promoting it in a more even-handed manner. When they
do, I will be inclined to re-sign.

"The time is near, the mission clear, it's later than you think..." This Wed. 8:30, Love Auditorium. Get Your Tickets
NOW!
