THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991 : 3

Reach Out

Continued from page 1

ments of these two men, the general manager of WCNT, John Woodstock, said that he had not heard about the
statements made during the interview with Mitchell. He did not appear surprised at McGuffin and Clarke’s comments and explained that
he has talked with them several times about past remarks. Woodstock said, “They’re not destined to stay on the air
too long.”

Woodstock also said that the comments of McGuffin and Clarke do not necessarily represent the station’s views. He commented on
how the two hosts sometimes present their opinions in the wrong light.

Mitchell was obviously upset about how these two men acted during the interview. “The DJ’s were ignorant about the issue,”
said Mitchell, “Into the Streets is not to go out and change the world, but to make students aware.”

Mitchell said, “I hope that something, at least awareness, has come out of this.”

Mary Faith Mount, President of Habitat for Humanity, said, “Their (McGuffin and Clarke) comments about Davidson students were wrong, and
the people who slept out were not who they were talking about.” She added that their views on homelessness were
“unfounded and wrong.”

Around forty people attended the midnight vigil in front of Chambers and about twenty-two stayed and slept on the wet
lawn last Wednesday night. News reporters from channel nine interviewed Reach Out President Kathy Beach about the sleep out and
channel three filmed part of the midnight vigil.

Connor

Continued from page 1

the old Warner Hall house. Sarah Way explained that they would like to have sixty committed members before self-selection night,
but really want a strong group of first-year students to set Connor rolling.

Way carefully explained that if freshwomen self-select Connor and the roll totaled only fifty-nine members, then the computer would restart
the process from scratch.

The computer would revert the Connor names back to the other three houses. So no risk would be involved as
far as choosing a house that may not yet exist.

House meetings are Mondays at 6:45 in the old Warner Hall house and are open to all potential members.

{Read & Recycle This Davidsonian}

Manure

Continued from page 1

problems occur and then treats them.

The result is a more environmentally safe campus, but the lack of pesticides means that the campus may not always
look “shiny and bright,” Brawley said. He believes that the “intelligent academic community understands the need to be protective of
the environment.” Random spraying of pesticides can eventually lead to contamination of water supplies and other problems.

Davidson’s concern for the environment hasn’t raised the cost of caring for the campus, but probably hasn’t reduced the expense
either. The biggest tradeoff for using the environmentally safe methods is in the reaction time of the fertilizers. Chemically based
fertilizers have much quicker reaction times, while natural fertilizers are slower acting.

The natural fertilizer that has been so noticeable this past week is “composted turkey litter.” Brawley says that the material
is a combination of turkey manure and shavings which is high in Nitrogen, Potassium, and Phosphorous. Brawley added that the
grounds crew did not expect the fertilizer to be as odorous as it has been.

Brawley made the point that Davidson’s maintenance methods could not be considered strictly “organic.” Rather, the grounds crew always tries
to do what will be least damaging to the environment. Sometimes herbicides are used, which are not organic, to treat
certain types of disease and weeds.

Brawley’s commitment to the environment led to national television coverage on “Good Morning America” last summer. At the time of
the segment, Congress was discussing a bill which would restrict pesticide use. The Davidson campus was used to show that
pesticides were not necessary for maintaining an attractive landscape.

George Morris, the Supervisor of Grounds, oversees a maintenance crew of 13 full-time employees. They are responsible for overseeing all
85 acres of the front campus.

North Meck Computer Center

We've got hundreds of PC software titles, and now carry Macintosh software. We order more every day!

10% OFF

Any Item

With This Coupon

We're the largest computer store in North Mecklenburg. Let us know how we can serve you!

Coupon expires 10/30/91. Financing available—we want your business!

We carry a complete line of personal computers, printers, software and peripherals, and much more!

Stop by or call—If we don't have it we'll be glad to order it for you!

Huntersville Square 704-875-6333

Exit 23 on I-77

GO CATS!

Clip this Coupon

Homecoming Special

Buy one full size hoagie

HOMECOMING SPECIAL!

Pack A Hoagie to the Game: Buy one full size & get the second one for .99¢

This Offer is Good All Day Saturday, October 26

South Lake Shopping Center 896-7611

and get the second one for just .99¢

Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs Princeton University

Graduate Education for Careers in Public Affairs

International Relations Development Studies Domestic Policy Economics and Public Policy

Brown bag lunch and question-and-answer session will be held with a Woodrow Wilson School representative.

Date: October 22, 1991 Time: Noon Place: Career Center

THUNDERBIRD

A DIFFERENCE OF DEGREE FOR A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE

- 45 years of educating international managers
- Intense program of modern languages, world business and international studies leading to a Master of International Management degree
- 23,000 alumni worldwide who are leaders in business, government and not-for-profit organizations

A representative will be on campus Monday, October 28th to discuss GRADUATE STUDY

Appointments may be scheduled at your Career Center

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
