THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991 15

Wrestlers Fall To Camels, Devils

By Matt Johnes

In this last week’s Mid-South tournament, Davidson wrestlers had it going their way until the semifinals of the wrestle-back. Then it turned sour, but not before the ‘Cats had turned in an impressive performance.

The double elimination tournament, held in Johnson City, TN featured a 10-team field, including squads from The Citadel, Furman, and Carson-Newman.

The wrestle-back is essentially the losers’ bracket of the tournament, and decides the third and fourth place finishers. Of the nine Wildcats who attended the tournament, seven made it to the semifinals of the wrestle-back.

The round turned out to be a tough one for the ‘Cats, with only senior co-captain Joe Binns advancing. His victory gave him a 3rd place finish in the 150-pound class. Said head coach Tom Oddo, “Putting seven wrestlers into the semifinals of the wrestle-back was pretty good in itself. We’ve never had that many guys make it that far. But the semifinal round turned into a nightmare. We started dropping like flies.”

The ‘Cats returned home this week to face Campbell and Duke. Against the Camels on Tuesday night, junior Scott Townsend provided the only cause for celebration in a 31-15 defeat. Townsend, wrestling in the 177-pound weight class, recorded a first-period pin of his Campbell opponent. Unfortunately, against Duke Saturday afternoon, there was no such consolation. The powerful Blue Devils shut out the ‘Cats.

Photo By Chris Lee

"Yes, love calculus"

Freshmen Sarah Berry affectionately display the textbook of her favorite subject while colleague Kathy Ayers diligently studies. Weather at Davidson has been unusually warm. Several students are now taking their work outside.

DAVIDSON OUTDOOR SPRING BREAK 1991

EVERGLADES CANOE EXPEDITION MARCH 23-30

The tradition of this great trip continues! Join Davidson Outdoors for a week of wilderness canoeing in the Ten Thousand Islands of the Gulf of Mexico. This maze of mangrove jungle has tropical vegetation, an abundance of birdlife, and perhaps a manatee will swim by our boats! A great spring break value at $175.00. This trip is sure to fill up fast. There are only 10 spaces available, so sign up now at the UNION DESK.

NANTAHALA MOUNTAINFEST MARCH 23-30

Join Davidson Outdoors for a week of canoeing and mountain biking in the Nantahala National Forest of North Carolina. The week will start out with a 3-day whitewater canoe clinic taught by expert guides from the Nantahala Outdoor Center. You will learn all the skills needed to navigate your way through exciting river rapids! After becoming certified river rats, your intrepid group of explorers will depart for a 3-day mountain bike trip on the trails in the Nantahala area. Davidson Outdoors and Nantahala Outdoor Center will provide all food, equipment, and transportation with the exception of mountain bikes. You will need to provide your own bike. An incredible bargain at $175.00. This trip is sure to fill up fast so drop by the UNION DESK and sign up now!