Che Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 1991 NUMBER 1

College Puts Final Touches on Ambitious Summer Construction
By Walter Price

As Davidson students and faculty readied themselves for vacation last spring, the physical plant and Residence Life offices launched a series of ambitious summer construction projects at the college. These projects have involved all aspects of Davidson life, from new and renovated residence halls to relocated administrative offices. Many students arriving this weekend will be welcomed to the sight of construction crews hurrying to finish work on the new apartment buildings in Martin Court and renovations to Duke Residence Hall.

As of Thursday morning, Richard Terry of the Residence Life office expressed optimism for work on these projects being completed by the time students arrive to move in. “As long as we are finished by the 18th we don’t consider ourselves late,” Terry said. According to Terry, much of the work to be completed is superficial installation in these residence halls. Terry mentioned delivery and equipment inspection delays, as well as the fire in Belk Residence Hall, as factors contributing to the delay of finishing stages of the summer construction.

Other renovations also took place in Belk and Sentelle Residence Halls as well as Chambers Building. “Much of this work involved new paint and repairs. The refurbishing also included technological improvements and the resettling of the various administrative offices with the math and psychology departments taking their place. This relocation means that Chambers has returned to an all-academic building with most administrative offices moving to Jackson Court houses.

Two other notable changes to the campus involved the completion of the renovation of the new Admissions offices in Grey House and the conversion of Henry Louis Smith House from student housing to offices for the institutional advancement department.

Photo By Holt Hathaway
Apartment building "E", although missing furniture, is ready to house students.

Davidson Welcomes The Class of 1995
By Russ Tisinger

Freshmen arrived en masse Friday and began the weekend-long orientation process. They attended a number of various social and formal events designed to make the transition to college a little bit easier. The freshmen class is 400 strong this year, 55% of which are men. They come from all over the country as well.

On Friday, freshmen first separated from parents and shuffled through the Union, where they picked up IDs, keys, sheets, and other essentials. They spent the rest of the day moving in, and meeting their hall counselors. For the remainder of the weekend, they attended information sessions on the library and the honor code, met with advisors, and attended the activities fair. They also found time for mixers on their halls and at the Union.

The whole process of orientation, which is always a little overwhelming, was no different for freshmen this year. Carey Thompson of Richmond, Va., a 4th Richardson resident, said her biggest fear yet was “just getting my stuff upstairs.” Alice Felmlee of Lynchburg, Va. shared that sentiment, saying that she thought she...

See “Freshmen” on page 4.ment. A final new addition to the campus is a security system involving Belk, Cannon, Richardson, and Duke Residence Halls. The system involves the use of cards that are issued to each student that allow access to areas and is one of the first of its type to be installed at a college or university. The system uses a computer that “reads” the card and unlocks the door for an individual. Through the computer, access can be controlled per individual card number. Terry estimated that the system cost somewhere in “the ballpark of 50,000 dollars.” Terry mentioned that if feedback on the system is positive, plans could be set to expand the system to the academic buildings. The office of College Relations contributed to this article.

Mattresses Burn in Belk Sub-Basement
By David Thompson

At approximately 10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, August 6, a fire erupted in the sub-basement of Belk dormitory. While no injuries were reported, and the fire did no structural damage to the building, several mattresses were destroyed in the blaze. Sparks generated from work being done on air conditioning pipes in the building apparently fell through to the sub-basement, igniting the mattresses in storage below.

Firefighters from Davidson, Cornelius, Huntersville, and Mount Gilead were summoned to combat the fire, which took over two hours to extinguish. Dense smoke from the burning and smoldering mattresses limited access to the source of the fire. The intense heat of both the fire and the 90+ degree weather outside, combined with the crowded conditions in the sub-basement, made fighting the fire more difficult. Several firefighters required treatment for heat exhaustion.

Watching medical care being provided to the exhausted firefighters, Dean of Students Will Terry commented that the incident should serve the students as an example of what local fire departments have to face. “This should make the students see how inappropriate it is to pull false fire alarms,” he said.

Although cleaning crews arrived Wednesday, August 7, to repair the smoke and water damage, several students have complained of an unpleasant odor permeating even the upper floors of the dorms. The smell, however, will not inhibit the use of the building.

Concerned Students Question Reliability of Campus Condoms
By David Thompson

For nearly two years, Davidson College has made condoms available to students through Resident Advisors and the First Aid boxes in dormitory bathrooms. The policy was enacted in order to encourage and facilitate responsible behavior among sexually active students. The condoms are distributed free of charge to prevent unwanted pregnancy and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.

Unfortunately, however, some students have found the condoms offered by the college to be inadequate. Toward the end of last semester, Residence Life Director Rich-

See "Condoms" on page 4.

INSIDE
Homer Sutton named interim dean of admissions. See page 2.
Library installs computer system. See page 4.
Andrew Spainhour launches a new column. See page 5.
OPINIONS: Homer Sutton named interim dean of admissions. See page 2.
STUDENT DIRECTORY: See the special pull-out section. Pages 7-14.
DAVIDSON ARTS: A new section for The Davidsonian. See page 6.
CAMPUS LIVING: Davidson spring and summer programs around the country and the world.
SPORTS: Photo feature by Holt and Lee. See pages 18-19.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036