THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

Ever since the straps popped on my father’s infant-toter and I bounced onto the roof, off the gutter (which he was cleaning), and out into the crisp Autumn air, I have loved Fall. Next, I remember watching the house turn all the way around and feeling Dad thump beside me. Nestled in a downy cushion of parti-colored leaves below our eave, I wiggled my little arms, flailed my little toes, and began cramming oak fronds into my mouth. In the front cover of her Bible, my Mother wrote that night, “October 19, 1969... he squeaked like a happy chew toy when he hit. The chill wind brushed beneath my hair, Father looked up at me, and we smiled.”

Fall saved my life. And Fall got my life rolling. I counted backwards and nine months before I took my first breath was October. If I ever get my colors done, I hope I’m a Fall. A discerning eye has informed me, however, that fair-haired people tend to be springs, or some other such uncapitalized season. I hope not. All that pollen and reproductive imagery. Oocky stuff. As some famous dead person stated, “April is the cruelest month.” Translated, I think this means, “Hmmm, every living organism but me seems to be getting some.” Tough times. And cute little spring-budding green things don’t impress me either, especially ones that flower. You'd think the little shoots planned to live forever. Pretentious bastards.

Only summer could be worse. The scenery’s like green paint on a window, and a decidedly pale chest testifies to the author’s backsliding reverence for the sun. My cousin, John, has a very wise, fat, and happy golden retriever named Erma who knows what’s what. Each summer John fills up a small, plastic baby pool with water in which Erma patiently awaits, prostrate, the autumnal equinox. Winter’s OK, sometimes, if the snowballs stick together. Warm cocoa, blankets, and a fresh little honey bun to enhance the metabolic potential can be nice, too. Unfortunately, such pleasantries do not frequent the Davidson campus where winter means colder rain (and some say colder honey buns (a gender-neutral term you’ll be pleased to notice (for that matter, an object-neutral term (I don’t think I want to touch this one further (not that I’m a prude or anything (you know, with a little effort anyone can be politically correct))))))).

Kyle Kinner: Way Above and Beyond Birkenstock

Well, hello Birkers, it’s that time again. Time for another installment in that hair-raising serial, “Life in Hell--Washington Edition.” Too bad. It may be that time, but that’s not what I had in mind. What am I, Andy Rooney? Instead, I’ll just tell you that absolutely nothing interesting has happened since last week, aside from getting to stand in the “rent-a-crowd” on the White House lawn and wave spastically as the President of the United States arrived in a big, tax-dollar guzzling Marine helicopter with the King of Morocco in tow. Of course, as a Washington insider, these events are old hat by now. Oh, I crashed my first reception yesterday as well. Good salmon and free beer. Other than that, . . . nada.

You'll be happy to note that this correspondent doesn’t just sit around the office and eat bagels while musing over the Post (although I mused for six hours yesterday). No, Davidson is always on my mind (occupying the James Taylor Memorial Lobe). Specifically, I’m always looking for ways to impress you people. (Hey, so I’m shallow. I’m the kind of person that doesn’t automatically think of the big, green expanse between the obelisk and the Capitol when someone mentions the “mall.”) Equipped with only a phone and an infinite amount of free time, I decided that the old back-page wrestler interviews just won’t cut it when the Davidsonian is lucky enough to have a Washington bureau chief based right here in the “beltway.”

So I called Dick Cheney. Or rather, I called the number listed in the government phone book next to Dick’s name. Of all Bush’s coterie of cabinet secretaries, Cheney seems most willing to forego the “kick-ass” attitude in favor of technical management based on expert opinion. He’s not James Watt, but hey . . . who is? Anyway, would you believe that Dick Cheney doesn’t even answer his own phone? It seems to me that such a down-to-earth kind of guy would be happy to pick up the phone, when it occasionally rings, and talk to the folks back home. One is reminded of the Civil War general who despised the media. He was convinced that if he shot all the reporters following his campaign, within twenty-four hours there would be a morning edition from hell. Perhaps the Secretary is of the same mind.

Suffice it to say, Dick cannot be reached by the real people who made his appointment possible. Supposedly, he was “very busy,” or something. In any event, I ended up talking to his secretary, who was very kind in transferring me to someone else, who listened thoughtfully and then transferred me again. After the fourth transfer, I was finally able to find someone able to confirm or deny the rumor that there actually is a man named Richard Cheney who may or may not be Secretary of Defense. They’re a cagey little group down there at the Pentagon. Unfortunately, they’re also a busy little group. It doesn’t look like I’ll be able to meet with Dick before November. Apparently, such dubious journals as the Washington Post and the L.A. Times have first dibs on the Secretary (notice, he gets a big “S”, while the woman who makes his coffee gets a little “s.”)

That still leaves every other official and bureaucratic minion in the Washington area who, depending on schedule and availability, would probably be willing to talk to the press (even The Davidsonian). Let’s throw the onus on you, the reader. Who would you like to get the Davidson perspective on, Birkenstock style? Think of the possibilities . . . . I know for a fact that Helms would probably talk to me.(surprise). But what about Kennedy? Or Tom Foley? Or the famous “other” Jesse, who still resides in the district? The alternatives are literally endless, although, as in the case of your mid-term grades, don’t get your hopes up. Lobbyists with North Carolina as the typing paper, Nature as the goocky pigments, and God on the finger paints, please welcome . . . Fall! Sometime in the next month, dear reader, climb to the top of your favorite administration building and take in the most spectacular curtain call the world will ever know -- 43 zillion green things kickin’ the bucket with style -- goodness but it’s inspiring. Fall is like Ted Williams hitting a home run in his last at-bat or Elmer Fudd slipping on the hunting plaids one more time in search of Wabbits even though he knows he will shoot himself incessantly in the face. The fleeting glory and grand failure of an orange leaf make life worth avoiding for a day so you can rake up a great big pile and jump in it. Autumn afternoons unfold like a La-Z-Boy with a well-worn dent for your butt, and the evenings smell better. So some night when the Union’s closed and the fog is hovering low, step into the graying eve and try to walk real slow. With the misty curtain drawn enough to fuzz the walkway lights, shim in the glimmer, flinch in the glint, are a different story entirely, however. They’ll talk to Noriega if they think they can get some free press out of the general. ACTUP, Operation Rescue, NARAL, NOW, NRA, Queer Nation, or even . . . the animal rights ilk (rhymes with elk, wonderful fur). Everybody’s got an angle. “Ladies and gentlemen, children of all ages... come one, come all, to the greatest circus on earth. See them posture and prevaricate, disseminate half-truths, and even outright lies. They can turn back-flips that would make the great Luigi blush, and they always land on the right side of an issue. They’re the famous, stupendous, colossal, Washington politicians. Paid a hundred thousand tax dollars a year, they accomplish less than your average plumber, though both work in the same medium. If your taste tends toward the exotic, spend some time in our Keating Gallery of Rogues, where the old and the scandal-ridden go to die. Or, if rare and unusual is your fare, visit the mysterious Larrouchsky, and listen as he spins his web of conspiracy and fear (also available from Scribner & Son, 22.95).” Now, I don’t mean to characterize this city as a latter-day Gomorrah; Sodom maybe, but not Gomorrah. Instead, to misquote a dead Prussian, “Legislation is like sausage, one would not want to see it being made.” Which is essentially true of the entire cultural milieu this city has built around itself. It’s probably necessary (or inevitable) to governance, but it’s not very attractive. Those pictures you see of the Capitol dome and the Washington Monument at the end of the broadcast day on your local PBS affiliate don’t even begin to approximate what this place really looks like. But that’s why I’m here. And as long as I’m here, I might as well talk to as many people as possible (the good, the bad, and the Kennedys). What better excuse than an interview to get my foot in the door? So, here’s your chance. If there’s someone, for whatever reason, you’d like to hear from, and it’s not Bush or Quayle, tell Dave Thompson and I'll see what I can do. You never know, maybe I’ll get to talk to Dick after all. P.S. I’m writing this while I wait for a phone call from a surprise mystery guest. If he calls me back before the deadline, I’ll interview him, and you’ll never even get to read this social diatribe o’ mine. Hmmm.... P.P.S. And as for last week’s column, no one need fear that they risk not being offended by this journalist. Vivé l’indépendence.

Continued from page 5.

Its academic excellence shuns those of us striving hardest for that excellence. One of the most courageous actions we as humans can undertake is to open our minds and learn BASIC, in spite of the widespread misconceptions about the superiority of Lotus 1-2-3. Let us not dwell on the standards we are pressured to conform to in a larger group. Rather, we should strive to move forward and upward as technology rapidly expands. The next time you are about to tell a “Geek” joke, or to call one of us a “nerd,” stop and think about what is motivating your actions. Do you fear the computer center? Would you like programming lessons? We would be all too glad to help in any way. Besides, are the laughs you elicit worth the conscious decision to choose knowledge over computer illiteracy, pocket protectors over leaky pens, Apple over IBM, and keyboards over kegs.

Keep Hacking-Disillusioned on First East,

Sincerely,
JONATHAN PETERS, SCOTT HILE, JIM SHUMADINE, JACK SMITH, JIM MCELLMURRAY, and DEREK SLAYTON, '95