THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

Campus Living

Jo Burrows There When It's Needed: Counselling at Davidson

By Jo Burrows

There was once a time when a narrow-minded attitude towards psychotherapy and counselling existed. Seeking help was regarded as an extreme measure, taken by only the very desperate or weak. Luckily, however, a more positive attitude now prevails. People accept that dealing directly with problems is the best thing to do, and that counselling can be of great help.

Davidson offers a completely confidential counselling service to all enrolled students, who can receive up to ten counselling sessions at no extra cost. Neatly hidden in the basement of the college Union, the Student Counselling Center employs three fully-trained counsellors: DeWitt Crosby, Molly Terry, and David Staton, the current director. Students can arrange hourly appointments on weekdays between 8:30 and 5:00, but the counsellors remain on call 24 hours a day for emergencies.

The counsellors will discuss many types of problems that Davidson students can face. These range from difficulties handling workloads and stress, to problems with depression and anxiety. Students can also receive counselling on drug and alcohol problems, eating disorders, and family issues such as divorce or death. With a great deal of pressure on students, the S.C.C. can be a valuable source of help and reassurance. Although seeking counselling may still seem a little drastic, it is really a way of recognizing that a problem exists, and dealing directly with it. If you have something that you feel you need help with, call 2451 for an appointment. After all, you have nothing to lose.

Environmental Action Committee Needs Your Help & Support

By Chris Moeling

Besides the academic education Davidson offers its students, this institution teaches us about living productive, meaningful lives. With its focus on service and humanitarianism, Davidson encourages students to develop lifestyles enriched with concern for fellow humanity. When it comes to environmental issues, however, Davidson fails to show students how to be conscientious conservationists. Recently, the world has begun to open its eyes to the problems it faces, and has begun to live with the planet’s welfare in mind. To encourage this trend locally, it is essential that the college and the students take a more active, concerned role in protecting and maintaining our community. While some problems have been evaluated and alleviated, no one denies that there is room for more improvements.

The campus community is pleased with the Ground Crew’s new turkey manure fertilizer (despite its smell). Irvin Brawley deserves a pat on the back for the switch to environmentally non-threatening fertilizing methods. Such steps in this “environmentally conscious” direction remain few and far between at Davidson. A large number of students admit that their college is “behind the times” with regard to recycling and environmental action.

The administration’s apparent apathy toward recycling concerns many Davidson students. In the past two years, recycling evolved from being an easily fulfilled student responsibility to a job that can only be accomplished by highly motivated people with cars (to deliver their recyclable goods to the shed). Although the administration has taken over the bulk of recycling responsibilities, the recycling effort has suffered overall. Because recycling centers are not located on every floor, many students do not bother to walk their recyclables down to their lounges. Additionally, because plastics are no longer recycled in dormitories, much potentially recyclable material is trashed. Many students are also unaware that Davidson recycles office paper. (Next to the TV lounge in the Union, students can take plastic and office paper, as well as all other recyclables.) One student complained that on his freshman hall, they had to...

Archives: Marc Overcash

The Legend of Archibald Jones

This legend of Archibald Jones comes from the 1914 Quips and Cranks. Please excuse the massive editing.

Archibald Jones

But to go back to the tale I am telling, There came to College the Fall of one year One man possessed of an aspect so dismal All said he looked most exceedingly queer. And when they asked him to tell what his name was, He replied to them in sad, dismal tones, That the thing given to him at baptism, Summed up in toto was Archibald Jones. Having said this he shut up like a mousetrap, Never again did he utter a se- Formed no friendships, nor did he want any, But solitarily tramped he...around. For many nights, it was thought that he studied. As he went straight to his room, locked his door, pulled up his transom, and locked both his windows, and until morning was nevermore. But soon ’twas noticed he knew not his lessons—he seemed but waiting for class to get through. Then when folks thought of these long nightly vigils, they began wondering: “What can he do?”

There was a certain young student in College, just what his name was I can’t think today. 'Tis said he came here a seeker of knowledge, but as to that—well, I really can’t say. But he was filled with that curse, curiosity. Other folks’ business he pondered much more than his own matters, and one day in passing, came to a halt before Archibald’s door.

Collect their recyclables in their own rooms, collect them from hallmates on their own, and then load up a car to transport the cans and bottles to the shed. The point is, people will not recycle at all if it takes an entire day to do it. On another hall, the recyclables collected in the bathroom higher than the stall walls. Davidson students want to be environmentally aware, but without the administration’s help, recycling will continue to lag. Recycling is only one dilemma of many that are frustrating to those who want to see a more “environmentally correct” Davidson. Why not deliver only one Davidsonian to each room—few people will complain or even notice. Freshmen receive two flyers for each party under their doors—one for each roommate. Why not put one flyer up on the hall—people will still come. Build kiosks or hundreds of flyers will continue to litter our campus. If you share these concerns, or have others... PLEASE JOIN THE ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION GROUP FOR ITS NEXT MEETING!!

Cafe’s Tunes Receive Mixed Reactions
By May Martin and Leigh McKeever

Some love it, some hate it. But Union Director William Brown says that the Union Cafe’s new jukebox is only an experiment. It’s there on a trial basis to see how students react to it. If students put money into it, Brown says chances are it will stay, if not...

The six freshmen SGA senators came up with the idea of a jukebox after they met to brainstorm about their goals for the year. B.J. Rudell came up with the idea because he said that he saw it as a way to bring more life into the Union and make it a place where students can hang out and do more than just eat. Sophomore Al Gaines thinks that the jukebox is a great idea, and that he frequently feeds the jukebox quarters. Mary Lee, who works as a cashier in the Union, says that...

See "Jukebox" on page 10

Heed now my words, oh ye innocent Freshmen! Think on them carefully when you’re alone. He would have been safe, if ‘stead of attending other folks’ business, he’d minded his own. But he did not, but with movements called catlike softly he knelt at the corridor floor. Next he applied his left eye to the keyhole, and then what do you suppose that he saw?

There at the table was Archibald seated, flushed were his cheeks, and his eyes flashed and rolled—as he caressed it, and blessed it, and pressed it—there on the table—a great heap of gold! Gold! Countless thousands lay there on the table! Gold! Yes, a fortune kings might not despise! Gold! With its promise of pleasure and power! Can we but wonder he felt some surprise?

Then like a thunderbolt left he the keyhole! Jumped to his feet, and with one mighty shove precipitated himself at the doorway, and crashed right through the glass transom above! Into the room like a wild streak of lightning came he headfirst. Grabbed Archi’s head, bit him and scratched him, and strangled and mauled him, and in two minutes the miser was dead!

Threw he himself on that heap on the table, pressed and caressed it, but soon paused for fear. Thinking that folks who should hear the proceedings might think the whole thing just a little bit queer. Just then a most diabolical project to his cerebrum from hell did arise. He thought of those hollow columns of Chambers which held the portico up to the skies.

See "Archives" on page 11