THE DAVIDSONIAN 11 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991

Campus Living

Bicycle Thefts Plague Davidson
By Virginia Mischen

One Sunday night a few weeks ago, sophomore Alden Smith left his $500 mountain bike in the bike rack behind Belk dorm. When he went to ride it early the next morning, it was gone. Bike theft has become a common occurrence on today’s college campuses, especially as students purchase more sophisticated—and more expensive—bicycles. Already this fall over 19 bikes have been stolen at Davidson.

According to Ray Thrower, Director of Public Safety and Police, bike theft could be prevented “if everyone practiced good crime prevention techniques.” He encourages the use of the horseshoe locks, which can only be cut with a blow torch. Cable locks are apparently not very secure. Campus Police is seeing a growing number of cases in which these locks have been cut and the bike stolen, which is what happened in Smith’s case.

Most of the manufacturers of the horseshoe locks guarantee their locks with a warranty covering the cost of the bike if it is ever stolen. Thrower stresses, however, that this warranty is conditional upon the correct use of the lock. If students lock the wheel of their bike to the rack and not the frame, a thief can easily remove the frame which is the most expensive part of the bicycle. Thrower also urges students to register their bicycles with Campus Police. The student simply fills out an information card with the bicycle make and serial number, and his or her driver’s license number is then engraved on the bike. Many times thieves immediately paint or “fix up” a bike to make it harder to recognize. If the police have a record of these numbers, they can identify a stolen bicycle.

To register their bikes, students can bring them to the Public Safety office at any time. For student convenience, officers have been registering bikes at different stations on campus. On Monday, September 30, they will be at the Senior Apartments. If a student’s bike is stolen, he or she should immediately report it to Campus Police. An officer will begin an investigation of the incident.

See "Bicycles" on page 13.

Breast Exams Can Save Lives
By Oma Blaise

The increasing prevalence of breast cancer in young women has become an issue of great concern on college campuses. Fortunately, eight times out of ten breast lumps are not cancerous. In the case of cancerous lumps, early detection can make a substantial difference in diagnosis and treatment. Therefore, every woman should know how to check her breasts for any signs of unusual lumps or hard areas.

A woman’s breasts change continually—with age, pregnancy, even during your monthly cycle. Examining your breasts regularly, once a month, will help you learn what’s normal for you so you can detect any abnormalities if they arise. The best time to examine your breasts is right after your period, about ten days into your monthly cycle. This is an easy date to remember, and your breasts are less likely to be swollen or tender.

Lying with a pillow under your right shoulder and your right arm under your head, place your left hand on your breast and move the whole breast (it should move easily). With your fingers held flat together, place your hand at the top of your breast and circle the entire breast. Move closer to the nipple with each circle. Feel for any unusual lumps or hard areas.

Liz Said, Dair Said...
Liz Davidson & Dair Brown

Things That Make You Go "LLLLLLLL"

Liz Said...
I do not remember getting a decent night’s sleep my entire freshman year. I was either up until about 4:00 cramming for some exam, frantically typing a paper, or out partying. On the rare nights when I was ready to go to bed at a decent hour...My hallmates around 2 am and often, there were “incidents” after that. It was the soap opera of life on first Rich. If you do not get enough sleep, you can’t function properly. This is not to say you will necessarily get mono or fail out of school. You will, however, feel the effects of only a few hours of sleep a night. You will have a harder time concentrating in class and a harder time completing your homework. A good rule is to try to get eight hours of sleep a night. I realize this may be hard to do when you have tests to study for or parties to attend. You will, however, feel considerably better during the day if you make an effort to get sleep. Make it a habit to get to sleep before 2 am, and take advantage of nights when you can get to bed early.

Change the position of the pillow and arms, and repeat the procedure for the left side. You can also do this check in. See "Exams" on page 12.

Physical Plant Joins Students In The Recycling Campaign
From the Recycling Committee

This year marks a new era for recycling at Davidson. The Physical Plant has institutionalized recycling in the dorms and provided dumpsters for the removal of recyclables. Students no longer need to remove the recycling buckets from the dorms. Students simply have to carry their recyclables to the recycling centers located in the dorms. Recycling centers are located in the following areas: the lounges of Little, Watts, Cannon, and Sentelle; the trash closets on the first and second floors of Duke; the trash closets in Richardson; the first-floor storage closets in the wings of Belk; and the second-floor trash rooms in Knox, Akers, and Irwin. Recycling in the dorms relies on student willingness to carry their recyclables the few extra feet to the recycling bins.

The rest of the recycling program is the same as last year. The apartments must put their recyclables out by 12:00 pm on Friday to be picked up. The recycling committee is currently working with the Physical Plant to build permanent recycling bins by the apartments. Students also pick up office paper from all the academic buildings on campus on a weekly basis. Patterson Court houses can place their recyclables on the curb by 12:00 pm on Friday to be picked up. Anyone interested in helping can call either Chris at -6640 or Ian at -6619.

During down time, people often try to compensate for their lack of energy with excess nutrients and stimulants. You've heard this before, “If I can just get some coffee in me, I’ll be fine.” or “My blood sugar must just be a little low today.” Food becomes a control mechanism to make up for weariness caused by the lack of needed rest. Many people believe that REM sleep, representing only 25% of our total sleep time, is the actual purpose of sleep. With all dreams taking place during this time, it serves as an outlet for the processing of memories and emotions that keeps us sane. The remaining three quarters of our sleep time primarily rests the body. This process would not be effective were it not for an established cycle that only initiates REM sleep every ninety minutes. A minimum of three cycles is the consensus. The consequences of not fulfilling the need for sleep are as destructive as nutritional and physical activity deficiencies upon your health. Heart disease in parts of the world where an afternoon nap (approximately thirty minutes) is the norm is 30% less than in areas (like the U.S.) where pushing to the limit is valued. Scientists have discovered a serious correlation between those who suffer from eating disorders and lack of sleep.