THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991 5

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor

JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

DAVID THOMPSON, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
SEAN LIND, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
LEIGH MCIVER, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor

The Davidsonian

Founded in 1914

BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
"The South's Foremost College CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor

Weekly” LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager

BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

Some Suggestions For
The S.G.A.

In moments when this campus and the nation are experiencing history, one thing remains clear: Davidson College is torn by the war. The posters that found their audience in Chambers a few weeks ago evince this fact. So are the debates that continue to occur in the pages of The Davidsonian. Yet there remains a common denominator in our divisiveness: both anti-war demonstrators and supporters back the troops.

If this campus is to preserve its unifying image, that of integrity and cohesiveness, this sentiment must be echoed to the town of Davidson and the greater Charlotte area. And in times of such dire straits the leadership must come from our Student Government Association.

The immediate issue that stands before our S.G.A. then, is not one that deals with minus grades, kiosks or whether exam grades should be mailed on index cards or legal-sized paper. These are trivial matters. The potential impact of the Persian Gulf War if a ground assault occurs (and news sources seem to indicate that this phase is very likely) will be severe, and this situation must be addressed.

Mr. Jobe and other S.G.A. members need to be salient on this issue. The insularity of this campus should not lead them to believe that war will not drastically affect our campus. Let Davidson show support for the troops and their families and prepare for the very worst. We suggest that:

- A special blood drive be organized for the troops in Saudi Arabia, perhaps in coordination with the ROTC department.
- Begin a collection of canned goods and money for the military families in Charlotte.
- Hold forums as long as the war continues, inviting supporters and protesters, conservatives and liberals.
- Develop a support network for students who have relatives in the Middle East.

Winston Churchill once said that a “nation will find it very hard to look up to the leaders who are keeping their ears to the ground.” We hope that the SGA will not do the same.

~jj-c

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Thursday during the school year by the students of Davidson College.
Please address fan mail and correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036.
Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149.
Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.

Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.
Subscriptions cost $25 per year.
Advertising rates available on request.
Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Savona Counters Carlson

Dear Miss Carlson,

Miss Carlson, rape is a terrible crime. Rape is much too prevalent in our present day and time. Efforts to stop rape should be made, and are being made, all across the United States. But Sara, do you have to analyze every social situation that occurs on Davidson’s campus as a devious ploy by men to sexually destroy females?

I am very sorry, but it seems that every week when I pick up an edition of the Davidsonian, I go through the same process. I smile at D.A. Thompson’s wonderful sarcasms, I become intrigued with various articles, and I then turn the page to read Sara Carlson bitching about something.

Women on our campus, as well as many men, are pleased that you are making an effort to end violent, as well as non-violent, sexual crimes; however, you must get a grip. In the special Monday, Jan. 21, 1991, edition of the Davidsonian, you take the traditional “Queenie” vs. “smart, but homely” argument and turn it into, (surprise, surprise) a sexual discrimination discussion.

Why? The subjugation of women is not the result of every social conflict that occurs on Davidson’s campus whether you want to believe it or not. Is it not possible that the reason for the animosity between the females of our two colleges is simply personal?

Maybe Davidson women don’t like “Queenies” just because they personally believe they are “Big Hair B--ches.” Maybe “Queenies” do not like Davidson women because they believe they are (mostly) too reserved.

Sara, why do you insist that “all our [your] perceptions of the ‘enemy camp’ are filtered through the lens of the male student?” True, the women of Davidson and Queens should “learn to get along without petty jealousies and territoriality,” but do Davidson men have to be the battlefield you fight on?

Finally, I would like to address your point made with the Honor Council.

You purposely threaten the men of this college with the Honor Council (you say, “Nobody, men or women, wants to end up in an Honor Council trial for sexual harassment or rape,” when everyone knows women, physically, could hardly be guilty in this dept.) as if it was your own personal weapon to use against the evil men of Davidson.

The Honor Code is a time-honored tradition here at Davidson not to be manipulated by people like you.

Sincerely,
MICHAEL SAVONA '94

You Think
The Davidsonian

SUCKS

Well, Write For Us.
Call x2148 or x2149

Write For The Atlanta Man Who Is
Convinced That Georgia Tech Is #1.

Care To Argue (that's why he is the Op. Ed.)?
David Scott at x6615.