& THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief  
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor  
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor  
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor  
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor  
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor  
DAVID THOMPSON, News Editor  
SEAN LIND, Associate News Editor  
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor  
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor  
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor  
MAY MARTIN, Campus Living Editor  
LEIGH MCKEEVER, Campus Living Editor  
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor  
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor  
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor  
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor  
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor  

The Davidsonian  
Founded in 1914  
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”  

PETER FISHER, Production Manager  
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager  
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager  
BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager  
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager  
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager  

Vote for Candidates, Not Their Colored Paper

Six days: the amount of time that passes between the end of election sign-ups and the beginning of elections. That means our candidates have only six days to don their ubiquitous flyers, and six days for the campus to see who can actually scotch-tape the most colored paper to the walls and stalls of our institution. No one seems to mind the superficial, platformless process of name-recognition.

For this reason, it was not unexpected when a Davidsonian attempt to endorse the most qualified candidates—after listening to the platforms of each and every person running for president and vice-president—met with a rejection by the editorial board in a 15-4 vote. It was as expected as the whining around campus that rang throughout when the decision to endorse was announced in the first place.

And now the forum for the candidates to vocalize their views has been cancelled, which is no surprise. Very few students attended last year according to one member of last year’s SGA. The forums seem inherently superfluous on this lackadaisical campus. Why not run the SGA presidency and vice-presidency as Honor Council elections are run: allow no campaigning? Or at least allow more time for true campaigning? Why doesn’t the present SGA organize a mandatory forum in which the candidates are videoed during a question-and-answer period, after which the video is featured in the Union pit for a week? Why not do something besides count the votes after the election is over?

This week’s paper is replete with candidate information. There are transcripts reprinted from the Davidsonian meeting held on February 13 with the seven students running in the election. It is mere fancy to assume or hope that people will read them, but they are there. The transcripts are near-verbatim, edited by the candidates themselves. There are flyers, but they are colored paper and large print. Why not read the small print in black and white?

--m.p.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Isernia Finds Column Offensive

To the Editor:

Like most Davidson students, I have read D.A. Thompson’s articles in the Davidsonian and never gave them a second thought. I just passed them off as opinionated “journalism.” Nothing more, nothing less. However, two weeks ago, Mr. Thompson attacked the Davidson fight song, school spirit, and athletic teams. Instead, he supported drunkenness, student apathy toward athletics, and NCAA rules violations. After the column, I can no longer hold my tongue. It’s time I set the record straight.

Five years ago, the Davidson Football team was in disarray. First-year coach Vic Gatto had inherited a squad of only thirty players, (including five seniors). He and his staff worked hard to recruit thirty freshmen that year and another thirty the next. Davidson was beginning to revive their ailing football program.

Then, trustees and former athletic director Kit Morris decided to withdraw from the division 1AA Colonial League and opt for independent status. With this announcement, thirty-five players transferred schools. All that took so long to build was destroyed in one fell swoop. The football team was again forced to play inexperienced underclassmen against seniors. Last year’s decision to drop the football team to Division III was, in my eyes, a cop-out on the part of the trustees. They were unwilling to leave the team in Division IAA and give us a chance to mature and win.

Going into this past football season, I was both apprehensive and excited; apprehensive about playing Division III football under a new head coach and excited about playing Division III.football under a new head coach. Looking back on my experiences, I would not have changed a thing. Dave Fagg, his staff, and his “family” attitude rekindled an old fire and winning feeling in Davidson football. The beloved fight song was played every day at practice and on Saturdays after wins. The fight song is a proud and permanent part of my life that I will cherish forever. By the way, do you know the fight song? Ask any football player, and they will help you out with the words. That is if you aren’t too busy “shooting the healthy,” smoking your cigarettes, and drinking your beer. Getting back to the article, I will address your attack on the basketball team. (I feel I can speak in their defense because I have been in a similar situation, I know some of the players, I have seen them practice, and I have seen them in games.) Are you suggesting changing leagues? Changing divisions? I hope none of the trustees read your article, and those who did, did nothing more than line their bird cages with your column. To those of you who support Mr. Thompson and doubt the team, listen to me and give them a chance. These guys are underclassmen playing their hearts out against seniors. Look at the talent for the upcoming years—Holloway, Marsh, Zimmerman, Chapin, Heuer, Denmond, Musch, Drobnitch, Freeman, etc. Don’t panic! Give Coach McKillop, his staff, and players time to get experienced and win. Because they

Continued on Page 7

Savona Missed Point of Article

Dear Mr. Savona:

Although we are spending a semester abroad in Italy, we too receive and read The Davidsonian. Unlike you, however, we do not feel continuously subjected to Sara Carlson “bitching” (to use your terminology). Living in a different environment re-emphasizes to us that destructive female and male relationships prevail everywhere. And thus, it was very disappointing to read your article. You were struck by specifics in the article and became offended by a supposed attack on Davidson men. Sara does not use her article to attack the male race—that is viewing the women’s issues she writes about on a shallow level. If you had read the article carefully you would have read Sara addressing women as well as men. For instance, she advises women, “If we continue to allow ourselves to be objectified by men, and continue to accept like judgments of other women, we perpetuate the role of women as property of men, to be manipulated and controlled as he chooses.” Sara does not use the Davidson men as a “battlefield” when she writes about such women’s concerns as these, along with sexual harassment and rape. We do not feel that as a freshman you realize women face these situations at Davidson. If you did realize that these situations occur at Davidson, then we do not think you would feel Sara flippantly writes about these issues.

Furthermore, an educated student should be able to express oneself without resorting to curse words and slang expressions (i.e. “Get a grip.”) You are correct, however, in your astute observation that Sara’s article pertained to sexual discrimination. But your vocabulary is reminiscent of one who does not think before writing. You write to Sara that “the subjugation of women is not the result of every social conflict that occurs on Davidson’s campus whether [she] wants to believe it or not.” The subjugation of women to what? You cannot just write “the subjugation of women”—they must be subjected to something. Before you start to criticize a woman writing about women’s issues, you should not only be articulate but educated on them. Do not write that Sara is “bitching” because she is addressing issues that many women at Davidson are concerned about. In order to educate yourself, attend a Women’s Concerns meeting or talk to the Committee’s Chairperson, Sandra Smith.

When we read Sara’s article, we perceived that it addressed various women’s concerns through a familiar lens—the Davidson/Queenie controversy. Granted you may have a problem with this approach, but you hinder the potential good of Sara’s article with your reply. Women’s issues are still in an amorphous stage. Therefore, they need discussing and probing as much as possible—which is what she is doing. Men and women together, as well as with their respective sex, need to make a more concerted effort at communication and respect. Sara states that detrimental situations can be avoided “so easily by using common sense and treating every individual as a thinking, sentient being.” If you are concerned about rape and sexual discrimination, this part of the article might have jumped out at you to harp on needless particulars.

BETSEY BOSHELL '93
BETH WILLARD '93
Rome, Italy
February 14, 1991