14 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Cold Continued From Page 13

weeks of studying. Going to the infirmary may be tedious, but it would be worse to be in bed at
home or in the hospital.

4) Avoid caffeine as much as possible. Take showers to wake up, listen to music, go running. Caffeine is terrible
for people who have sensitive stomachs. It aggravates ulcers and cramps. It is not good for your immune system, and
if you get sick, caffeine will slow down your recovery because you won’t get enough rest.

5) EAT—even if you don’t feel like it. Your body needs food even when you are sick. You will feel
faint and dizzy on top of your other symptoms if you don’t eat. You need nutrients and vitamins to get
better. If you feel nauseous, eat what you can keep down.

6) This may seem obvious, but DO NOT DRINK ALCOHOL when you are sick. This is incredibly stupid for several
reasons:
- If you are taking medication, alcohol will increase its effects. Anything like Nyquil or Benadryl will make you drowsy
anyway. If you drink when you take these drugs, you could go into a coma.
- Alcohol has a numbing effect. When you drink, you will not feel your sore throat or headache. However, you
will feel worse in the following days.
- We cannot describe how a hangover feels when you are already sick. Every part of your body will hurt,
all your joints will ache. You will wake up feeling like someone very fat is sitting on you. Your limbs
will feel heavy. It will hurt to move. You will be too dizzy to sleep and in too much pain
to do anything productive. And as you go over the events of the night, you will curse yourself for not
staying sober. Aspirin may help a little, but you will feel awful until you go to bed that night.

7) Listen to your body. That sounds really corny, but we’re serious. If you get a sore throat, pay attention
when it first starts to itch. If you start coughing and sneezing or you feel weak, take it as a
sign. Take it easy when you feel a little run down. Sometimes you can stop illnesses before they actually start.
Don’t wait until you have a fever of 104 and no feeling in your limbs to consider doing something about
it. Be a hypochondriac sometimes—it may save you a lot of doctors’ bills, missed classes, and missed parties.

By Beth Ford

By opening this article with words with scrambled letters, we hope to put you, the reader, in the position of
someone who is unable to read. Into the Streets, the week devoted to service at Davidson, begins today with Education
and Literacy Day. Davidson students participate in a number of literacy projects which fall under the umbrella of Project X,
or Adult Literacy. In an effort to teach children who are at risk of dropping out of school, tutors work
with sixth graders at a school in Charlotte who currently read at a second grade level. Tutors also work with
adult students and with Mexican and Japanese students who want to learn English. If you are interested in helping with
Project X, please contact Beth Ford (-6328) or Kelly Thompson (-6334).

Condoms Continued From Page 13

the condom on correctly. Incorrect use of a condom seriously decreases its effectiveness. Unfortunately, the condoms in our dorm bathrooms
do not include an instruction sheet; and the last time I called Student Health Services they didn’t have the instructions
either. So, here they are:
1. Place a new condom on the penis each time, priorTo avoid contact with any body fluid that may contain
STD organisms:

1. Pull the condom over the head of the erect penis. Leave about 1/2" space at the end. Some condoms
have small receptacle ends which provide the required space to collect semen. Squeeze the end slightly to release air and
avoid an air pocket.
2. Slowly unroll all the way to the base of the penis. If the condom does not unroll to the
base of the penis, it has been put on incorrectly and should be discarded.
3. If a lubricant is desired, use water-based lubricants. Do not use oil-based lubricants, such as those made with petroleum
jelly, mineral oil, vegetable oil, or cold cream, as they may damage the condom.
4. After ejaculation, the penis should be withdrawn slowly from the vagina. The top of the condom should be held
firmly when withdrawing to avoid spilling any semen.
5. If the condom breaks or, if for any reason, semen spills or leaks out during use, it is advisable
that partners cleanse themselves wherever contact may have occurred, as soon as possible.
6. Store condoms in a cool, dry place.
7. If the rubber material is sticky or brittle or obviously damaged, do not use it.
8. Remember—never reuse a condom.

Ken Menkhaus Brings International Experience to Davidson

By David Smyth

New Assistant Professor of Political Science Ken Menkhaus hails originally from Cincinnati, Ohio, where he also went to college at
Xavier University. At age 12, his family moved to Columbia, South Carolina, where he eventually attended graduate school at the
University of South Carolina.

Menkhaus is an international relations and comparative politics specialist within the Political Science Department. His course load this semester includes
International Political Economy, Politics and International Relations of Africa, and a seminar on Northeast African Politics. He finished his dissertation
in 1989 and left for the American University in Cairo for a two-year stint where he taught a predominantly Egyptian
student body. Original plans had him staying in the Middle East for another year or two. With the advent of
the Persian Gulf War last fall, though, Menkhaus thought it would be a good idea to seek gainful employment on
safer soil. A spot conveniently opened at Davidson, and everything else just fell into place.

Menkhaus cited Davidson’s commitment to international studies as a very attractive quality when he was deciding where he would like
to teach. The Dean Rusk Program, the large number of students who go abroad at some point during their careers,
and the expansion of the international focus all convinced him that Davidson would be a good place to study and
teach.

When asked about student reaction to the Gulf conflict, Menkhaus downplayed the volatile image. “Life went on pretty much as
normal. Most of the Egyptians were sufficiently sophisticated to differentiate between an individual and his government.” At the same time,
though, the war was a very emotional issue for his students and their families, as they were directly involved, economically
and otherwise. His classes were filled with Jordanians, Palestinians, and other nationalities as well as Egyptians, so varying perspectives made
easy labeling impossible.

Menkhaus likes Davidson students and is excited to find that they seem curious to learn about more than just the
class material. So far, Davidson seems to like him as well.

A Public Service of the USDA Forest Service and your State Forester. ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES.

Make London your campus for a semester. Attend classes in the heart of the city, live with an English family,
and study with distinguished professors. Savor the British Isles from Hyde Park to the Highlands.

Hollins College

For information, call or write:
Hollins Abroad — London
P.O. Box 9706, Roanoke, VA 24020-1706
(703) 362-6307
FAX (703) 362-6642
BITNET: HOLLINS@VTCC1
