16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW
With Ken Wood, Director of Experiential Affairs
By David Thompson

Ken Wood came to Davidson 17 years ago with an interest in helping students act upon their interests in ways
which might facilitate personal growth. On Friday, September 13, Wood described many of the ideals upon which the Office for
Experiential Programs operates, and some of the more rewarding challenges these programs have offered Davidson students.

Davidsonian: How does the Office for Experiential Programs work? What is its function at Davidson?

Wood: I think that the college is aware of the fact that students who come to Davidson are perhaps knowledge-rich
and experience-poor. They’ve been spending an awful lot of time in the classroom. They may have traveled with parents or
done something like that, but a lot of them have not experienced much of the world outside the classroom. There
is some awareness that some personal growth issues, as well as maybe some academic issues, can be enhanced by involvement
in the world through internships and adventures. I help students identify what it is they would like to experience or
feel that they need to experience so that they can get a handle on some aspect of their life—be it
their career direction or something on a more personal agenda. I help them by clarifying where they might get that
experience, and what their goals might be in relation to the experience. In doing that, we identify and work through
alumni connections, as well as through my own personal connections. In my 17 years here, I’ve met a lot of
people who are very open to this kind of thing. It’s seldom the case that a student might come in
here with an idea of what they want to experience in which we cannot connect them with something.

Davidsonian: How have you gone about actually developing and maintaining these contacts? Do you usually go to other people, or
do various businesses and the like come looking for you?

Wood: I’m often in contact with many people in various fields, and if I find somebody who is open to
the idea of having an intern and is involved in some career area or activity in which a Davidson student
might have interest, I’ll make a note of it and file it away until someone asks about it. People from
Charlotte frequently call this office for interns, especially people with whom we have dealt before. In fact, just recently I’ve
been called every day by representatives from Spirit Square because they are eager to get an intern for their public
relations department. I try not to communicate the idea that we are a “slot-filling” service. Our program is responsive to
the individual needs of students. It isn’t as if I spend a lot of my time trying to identify positions
out there and then come back to recruit students for those positions. It’s so simple, I think, at this juncture,
to take the interests of most any student and after two or three phone calls, open up avenues to further
explore those interests. We have programs in an extremely wide array of areas. There are at least 150 students involved
in part-time internships right now. Those are in such areas as law, medicine, social services, and several other fields. There
are also full-time internships for students who want to take a term away from Davidson or get involved in a
summer-long program. A lot of those are in Washington, D.C., but there are others in such places as New York,
Boston, Minneapolis, San Francisco, and Chicago. We even have students who go to London, Paris, and all around the world.
Other programs are like the extern program during a school break. A student can come talk to me about a
specific interest. It’s an opportunity to converse with people who are involved in a field in which the student might
be interested. Up to 60 or so of those are set up every year. We can help a student establish
a connection with some place like the Center for Disease Control, or a law office where they can just step
into that setting for a week or so and get a handle on whether that’s a career which holds interest
for them. Several students come down, too, who are just hungry for adventure—like the students who wind up spending the
summer in Alaska working for a fish cannery, or wherever in the country or the world the student might have
an interest. We have just tons of resources here for people. Those include all kinds of internship directories and files
and files of opportunities. There are a lot of resources to which I can direct the student. Part of my
philosophy is that students should manage as much of the project as is possible, rather than have me get involved
in a placement situation. The pursuit of the experience itself and using the contacts is a part of the learning
process. It’s a critical part of it. My role is in clarification, pointing the student in the right direction, mentioning
some contacts, and suggesting strategies for students to market themselves. However, it’s really up to them.

Davidsonian: From an employer’s point of view, what exactly sets a student who has had an internship apart from those
who have not? Aside from the obvious suggestion that the applicant gained some first-hand work experience, what does an employer
infer from learning that a student has worked in an internship program?

Wood: I think employers look for responsibilities assumed and carried out successfully. It really doesn’t matter a whole lot whether
that student assumes the responsibility on or off campus. I don’t think there’s any magic about an internship program, especially
if students enter into it just so that it will look good on their resume. Employers can see through that
kind of nonsense. The focus of interest that an internship suggests is extremely attractive. If a student comes to an
employer and says, “I’m interested...in working for you,” it’s helpful for that student to have experiences which demonstrate a genuine
interest in that field. You want to show that you’ve had that kind of interest for a while, and that
you’ve done something with that interest rather than just sat on it for four years. That tells the employer that
you’ve tested the waters in this area, and that you’re more likely to sustain an interest in that field when
hired than the student who has never explored his or her interests. An employer will ask whether a student is
interested in a line of work, and the student will often reply in the affirmative. Employers will then ask the
applicant what he or she may have done to show that interest. I think that’s a very legitimate request. It’s
especially pertinent to ask of students in the liberal arts. The employer knows about the solid academic background these students
have, but wants to know about what they can actually do and like to do. Internships are one way for
students to demonstrate that they have serious interests and skills, and have put them to use in a positive manner.

Davidsonian: Tell us about some of the most rewarding internships in which Davidson students have been engaged.

Wood: One of my favorite stories is about the student who came into my office and halfheartedly said that he
wanted to do an internship at a bank. We started talking about setting one up, and I just noticed that
he just didn’t have any spark in his eye about the project. I asked him if he really wanted an
internship in a bank. He said that he thought it was something he’d thought about a bit and decided he
should do. I then asked him what he really wanted to do, and what fields really interested him. He told
me that he had just written a paper for a Political Science course on immigration law, and the research involved
was really intriguing. I asked him if he’d read anything recently on the subject, and he referred to an article
in The Wall Street Journal. The piece was written by this lawyer in London, who we called on the phone
right then and there. I handed the phone to the student who talked with the lawyer about his interest in
the field, and asked for an internship. This guy was so flabbergasted to hear from a college student in this
tiny town in North Carolina from a school of which he had never heard that he put him to work.
The internship made a critical difference in that student’s life. He came back, finished up at Davidson, and has been
a successful lawyer in the area of immigration law ever since.

Students will also come down with, say, an interest in whales. Next thing you know we’ve got an internship worked
out where they’re whale-watching off the coast of Massachusetts. I just love to work on internships like that—that seem extremely
exotic, but are actually more than realistic. If the student is willing to spend a little time researching the project,
then we can help with the strategy end and make employers offers they can’t refuse for internships. There probably have
been about 35 seniors and 30 juniors who have acquired internships for this semester. I would say that half of
those are receiving academic credit through one department or another for their work. We try to get interns to do
evaluations of their experiences. We also ask the employers to evaluate the program and the students who work for them.
It’s interesting to me to see that on a scale of 1 to 5, students rate their experience at an
average of 4.25 in terms of its relationship to their career interests. They give the programs an average score of
4.4 for the employers' concern for their development. That really shows that the employers are trying to ensure that the
student will have a positive experience. Overall evaluation of work assignment was 4.5 and the overall evaluation of employer was
4.65. We’re getting some good experiences here.

Surprisingly enough, when asked if their work was related closely to their academic pursuits, the students responded that the internships
were related, but not all that much, and they gave an average response on the survey of 3.3 out of
the possible 5. The question “Did you feel academically prepared for your work assignment” received an average response of 3.
That’s OK, though, as we don’t really have business courses or vocational studies courses here at Davidson. I don’t think
that suggests any deficiency in a liberal arts education, but just that students need a period of transition between college
and technical work. Davidson students tend to be very keen on picking those skills up once they’re out there.

Davidsonian: Do you have any sage words for our liberal arts students as life after Davidson approaches?

Wood: I encourage students to not be overly concerned with what they ought to do about their futures, and realize
just what it is that they want to do. They need to know that good careers are based on those
inner qualities of being in touch with your values and your interests. Picking up on trends or doing what your
parents insist that you do, or following whatever other people are doing won’t really help you. Get in touch with
who you are, and start moving on that early. If you haven’t done something with it already, then don’t wait
until you’re finished with college to start. Be honest with yourself. A lot of people don’t realize, though, that we
deal with almost two-thirds of the senior class. That figure is about the same for juniors, too. A lot of
people are using this office. Twelve appointments per day can get a bit draining, but that’s what I came here
to do 17 years ago, and that’s what I love to do. I do it because I think it’s important.
Students come back feeling 10 feet tall after a successful experience, and that helps to make my job worthwhile.
