THE DAVIDPHONIAN

"LITTERING THE BATHROOM STALLS OF THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE STUDENTS"

VOLUME LXIX DOES ANYBODY REALLY CARE? NUMBER 1

Davidson College Goes Big Time!
By Freelove Upthumpa

In a drastic maneuver designed to bring Davidson College into the national spotlight, the Board of Trustees, upon the recommendation
of Bob “You don’t know Big Boy” Williams and the William Morris Agency, has decided to fire the entire administration,
faculty, and staff in order to replace them with celebrity instructors. The decision, announced Friday, is effective immediately. The trustees
believe that with the all-celebrity faculty, Davidson College will be in a better position to compete for applicants with schools
like Harvard, Princeton, Yale, and Stanford.

“This little ‘commitment to teaching’ crap has gotten way out of hand. Davidson seems to think that abstract ideals like
integrity and educational merit are more important than big bucks,” said new Davidson President Jim Holderman when contacted in his
holding cell in South Carolina.

The new faculty members include Jerry Tarkanian, former head basketball coach at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, who
will take over the basketball program here, while teaching a course in romantic poetry. Others among the all-star faculty include
Gary Coleman as the African-American Literature professor, Gavin Macleod as the new Lake Campus director, and Danny Bonaduce, a radio
personality who is best known for his childhood role as Danny Partridge, will be teaching a new course in gender
studies. Bonaduce recently made headlines for allegedly beating up a transvestite male prostitute who only performed one act of oral
sex for the twenty dollars Bonaduce offered. According to one trustee, “You don’t often find a celebrity with Danny’s field
experience; we thought he’d be perfect for Davidson.”

Taking over the Feminist Thought course will be New England Patriots and Remington Shavers owner Victor Kiam. Kiam is looking
forward to coming to Davidson, where he plans “to promote the condition of womanhood in every regard.”

In an attempt to boost revenues, Davidson began their 1-900-TOY-BOYS phone sex service. Here, intern Rod Carter looks on while
operators Carey Stewart and Jeff Frayley show some lonely people a damn good time!

See “Sellout” on Page 3

Blind Nationalism "OK!" Says Davidson
By Joe Mommah

With the boys and girls coming back to the USA from Saudi Arabia, the administration of the E. H. Little
Library decided last week to take down the small ribbon in the front window and replace it with a really
big one draped around the whole building. Library officials offered an explanation, saying “we wanted to show our blind nationalism—no,
our patriotism—wait, it was our support for the soldiers. We really wanted to show our support of our soldiers with
this symbolic gesture.” They were aided by the Davidson Ribbon Manufacturing Company, which donated the cloth for the ribbon out
of appreciation for all the business Davidson students have given them through the years.

Reaction around the campus was mixed. The Religion Department immediately released an official statement which reads, “This is just the
sort of thing Davidson needs to do. The good ol’ US of A really kicked some Iraqi butt, and we
as a college have got to show people that we support President Bush all the way.” An art professor walking
by was heard to mumble something about aesthetics, and the Political Science Department remained strangely silent.

The students were as varied in their opinions as the faculty. One freshman girl said she thought the bow was
“cute,” although her friend...

See “Mindless” on Page 3

Athletic Director Holland Cries, Explodes Over Hat Rule
By Angelo McWordup

Amid the flurry of Terry Holland’s excessive agitation concerning the “No F---ing Hats” policy in the weight room, Holland actually
exploded last Friday when two freshmen refused to take off their baseball caps. “It wasn’t so much that they didn’t
take off their stupid hats,” said Holland, before he blew into a million...Pieces, “What really made me mad was when
they didn’t bow down to me.” Freshman Mike Hunt said he knew something was wrong when Holland’s face turned red,
then purple. “His skin started to burst open. I said to my friend Tim who was with me, ‘Let’s get
outta here. He’s gonna blow.’ Before we could sprint even ten feet, I heard the boom.”

The other freshman, Tim Berr, said, “I thought he [Holland] was shooting at us. Turns out he was exploding.” Apparently,
the two freshmen had entered the weight room last Friday afternoon to “do some bench press.” They were finishing their
last set when Holland walked in, accidentally banging his forehead on the ceiling. No sooner had Mike Hunt and Tim
Berr pumped out their final repetitions, when “He looked at us pretty angry, then he just left,” said Tim.

But he came back, and when he did, he had four MPs from the local Army reserve for back-up. “Take
off those hats, boys,” Holland was heard to say, “or maybe you'd like a few slugs of Dead Guy metal
in your belly.” The two freshmen held their ground. “No,” they said, “we will not take them off.” “Yes you
will,” said Holland. “Nope. We won’t.”

A New Gender Studies Program! By Iaman Hirmeror

Davidson is starting a new program next fall entitled Studies in the Glorification of Men. Men, men, men. For men,
by men, and about men. The program will fall under the auspices of The Center for Interdisciplinary Studies and be
available as a concentration akin to Medical Humanities. It has been called “a positive step in the return to all
that is good and decent about Western education” in a joint statement issued by Gail Gibson, Libby Mills, Rosemarie Tong,
Cynthia Lewis, Mary Thornberry, Sally McMillan, and Lynn Poland. The statement also said, “We sure do appreciate all the stuff
men have done for us.”

Guest lecturers that have already committed their energies to the studies include Victor Kiam, Clayton Williams, and Andrew Dice Clay.
That’s right folks; the Dice Man teacheth and will soon grace our fair campus with his unique, enlightened perspective on
man’s proper role in the universe. Former Texas gubernatorial candidate Williams will give his students helpful hints on “servicing” the
male needs with all of his usual panache and good taste. New England Patriots owner and electric razor magnate Victor
Kiam promises to add a humorous aspect to the faculty that has been missing in recent years. See "Great New
Class" on page 3.

“Say, ‘Yes you will.’” “No we won’t.” “Will too.” “Will not.” This mode of banter endured for ten minutes until
the freshmen made a run for it. The MPs shot at them, wounding Tim Berr in the ankle and Mike
Hunt in the earlobe. When Holland caught up with them he said the following: “You know, it’s people like you
that make my amazing, despotic, ego-driven job a pain in the rear. People are so self-centered sometimes. Man, why can’t
it just be like it used to be? Why can’t you be like the clones at U.Va.? Take off your
hats. We didn’t wear them when I was here.”

Apparently, these were the last words of Terry Holland, for as soon as he had uttered that last sentence, he
went kaboom—right after he stopped crying. “It just goes to show you,” said the dude who cleaned up the mess,
“people spontaneously combust when rapid nuclear fusion or fission occurs with accompanying destructive force.” Assistant Athletic Gopher, Sterling Martin, commented
by saying, “I didn’t really mind because now I can be Athletic Director again.” Funeral services will be held for
Holland’s tongue and tonsil: the only body parts found.

INSIDE
News: Davidsonian Editors Expelled For "Parody Issue". See page 2.
Editors Unable to Think Up Third News Tease! Dean Terry Nude! See Page.
Campus Living: Freelove's Workout. Page 6.
See Literary Review. See Page 6.
Do you really think we're stupid enough to mail this crap out to the trustees?
