16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 5, 1991 THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Professional Wrestler, Ricky "The Dragon" Steamboat

The following question-and-answer with pro-wrestler Ricky Steamboat is excerpted from a series of interviews with former Davidsonian editor Mark Puckett.
Puckett is currently writing the authorized as-told-to autobiography of Steamboat.

By Mark D. Puckett

Ricky “The Dragon” Steamboat recently returned to the World Wrestling Federation under a two-year contract. For eleven years he has
wrestled professionally with appearances in forty-four states, Japan, Puerto Rico, Australia, the Bahamas, and Canada, amassing over twenty million fans
in the U.S. alone. Products that he endorses—posters, buttons, watches, school supplies, Milton Bradley board game, dolls—are top sellers. He
is married to Bonnie with one son and owns Steamboat's Mid-Atlantic Gym in Charlotte.

Puckett: You were a state champion wrestler at Boca Ciega High School and got a scholarship to wrestle at Northwestern
and to play football at Kansas State. You turned both down. How come?

Steamboat: I was all-American jockhead in high school—a lot of energy. You oughta see my letter jacket with all my
wrestling medals hanging off it. I had a dozen of them. I was team captain. Team captain of football. Played
powerback on football, which is in between a halfback and fullback. Yeah, I had a couple of scholarship offerings to
go to Kansas State for football and Northwestern for wrestling. I turned both down because I went to St. Pete
Junior College in St. Petersburg; I didn’t even participate in any sports there. Right after the end of high school
I’d gotten sort of fed up with things, you know. See, I would go to school, then after school was
practice—football or wrestling—then right after that I’d go bus tables at this Chinese restaurant until ten or eleven o’clock at
night. I would do that Monday through Friday. Saturday I worked at my dad’s garage. He had a Gulf gas
station; so I’d do that on Saturdays, and Sundays I would work half-days. That was seven days a week. Summertime
I worked at my dad’s place seven days a week. St. Pete was a very high academic junior college—it was
ranked number two in the nation. I just didn’t want to participate in any sports. Basically, I was going to
school to be a physical education teacher, but after I found out there was a long waiting list in Florida
for physical education teachers, I changed my mind and bummed around for a couple of years.

Puckett: What did you do then?

Steamboat: Sold Kirby vacuum cleaners for about two years. I had a '68 Corvette and an eighteen-foot jet boat, and
I would bust my ass Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and get a couple of sales under my belt. On each sale
you’d get a commission of a hundred dollars. You’re selling a four, five hundred dollar vacuum cleaner twenty years ago.
That vacuum cleaner now sells for seven, eight hundred dollars. Inflation. But I’d go out, get a sale Monday, get
a sale Tuesday, get a sale Wednesday, and I’d get 300 dollars. Twenty years ago here’s a college kid with
three hundred bucks. Thursday through Sunday you’d see my Corvette and my jet boat at the beach.

Puckett: Talk about when you went to Verne Gagne’s School of Wrestling in Minneapolis.

Steamboat: We had twenty-six guys come out for Gagne’s camp. It was a thousand dollars down and at the end
of the ten weeks you had to give him another thousand. Do you know how many guys finished? Four of
us. Out of twenty-six. Twenty-two quit. I lost thirty-eight pounds—242 to 204. At the beginning, this Cosro Viseri guy [who’d
coached the Olympic wrestling team] said, “I train you just like I train Olympic wrestler. Iranian style.” He would put
us through regimen like we were getting ready to train for the Olympics and going up against the best in
the world. And I'll tell you, I’ve never been in such shape. Our camp was held in the...basement of a
twenty-story building. So he’d make us run stairs. From the basement that was twenty-one flights. Run all the way to
the top, then back down. Then you’d have to fireman carry a guy; pick him up, fireman carry him across
your shoulders, then carry him up twenty-one flights of stairs. If you drop him, you and your partner run back
down. Then you’d switch—he’d carry you. You’d climb up on his back; he’d fireman carry you up twenty-one flights, etc.
You know, first couple of days you could get up four or five flights, then you’d collapse, and Cosro would
be there kicking you and slapping you, pulling you around by your hair, yanking you around—I mean yanking you around.
Some guys couldn’t even run up the stairs. Just run. I’d get up twelve, thirteen flights at a pretty good
clip, then the rest of the way I’d walk up. But I’d make it to the top. And back down.
Then you’d fireman carry a guy up and back down. You drop him, the both of you run down and
you’d switch positions. The third time you go up: wheelbarrow. Grab a guy by the ankles and he has to
walk up on his hands. Do you know how your shoulders, your traps, your neck—the burning sensation. Then, you couldn’t
make it up on your hands so you’re walking up on your elbows. Then we’d do Hindu squats. After Hindu
squats Cosro would make us do duck walk. To start with, you couldn’t even bend your legs down because they
were so pumped up with blood after doing hundreds of squats. Well, he’d push you down. He’d grab and you
could hardly walk. But, hey, three weeks into the program everybody was doing a couple hundred squats—even our super heavyweights.

Puckett: Was it worth it?

Steamboat: That duck walk. You know what that is doing? In the course of a wrestling match your forearms get
all blowed up and you’re just trying to hang on to the guy. It’s the same with your legs. That’s
what he was doing: conditioning you to the point that if your legs got blowed up in a match, you
could handle it. Just like your forearms getting so pumped you can’t even move your fingers. Same with squats. You
couldn’t even move your legs anymore, but he made you get down in that cramped position and duck walk. After
two or three weeks you could do it. So in the course of a match, his kind of training made
you an overall better athlete. Can you imagine going up twenty-one flights of stairs on your hands? Wheelbarrows. When he
first told me, he said, “OK, one guy down; other guy hold ankles. One guy down go up on hands.”
So I looked at who I was with and said, “You go first.” Well, I thought it would be a
break; here I am holding on to this guy’s ankles right and he’s on his hands going up the stairs.
But after about five or six flights my neck started burning with Cosro right there yelling, “DON’T LET GO! DON’T
LET GO!” So when you got to the top of the twenty-one flights the guy’s hands are blistered, rubbed raw
elbows, side of his face catching the corner of stairs. Then you’d run back down and the guy that was
all blistered up, he says, “You son of a bitch, it’s your turn to get down and do it on
your hands.” I’d say, “Yeah, but wait till we get up five, six flights and your traps and your neck
are starting to burn and fingers want to let go,” but you got the coach there screaming in your ear
DON’T LET GO! He taught us that if you could keep your shoulders from being pinned in the first two
rounds and you were better conditioned than your opponent, by the third round even though he may know half as
much, he’s still all yours.
