THE DAVIDPHONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991

When I was a boy I had a terrible problem. I just couldn’t make it through the night without wetting myself. When little Billy or Jimmy would invite me over to spend the night, I would just blush and decline, too ashamed to tell them the awful truth about my bladder control problem. I would even have to resort to horrible lies to cover up, and claim to have to stay at home to help my mother with her crack dealing business, and my father with the day-to-day administration of his child pornography ring.

My problem was compounded as I aged. Summer camp—a dream, never to be reality. When the other kids were going out on dates, I was at home with a bedpan and The Love Boat. Life was a miserable series of embarrassing incidents and P-spots on my jeans. I tried everything imaginable to end this problem, but none of the conventional methods were effective. Pills, lotions, exercises, special pants, all were vain attempts to change my life.

And then, on my 18th birthday, it happened. I was using the lavatory when I stumbled upon an unfamiliar piece of literature at the bottom of the magazine rack: Big Wet Mamas In Bondage. A strange sensation, the likes of which I had previously never experienced, began to envelop my genitalia. Needless to say, my whole world changed. The home entertainment center in my pants was more to me than just a sexual release, but a doorway to a new life. Without explanation, my previous problem with wetting the bed just disappeared. No more nasty yellow sheets (just the occasional crusty patch). No more bulky

Start Your Very Own Pot Farm! (please note: the article you are about to read was not written by the authors of Beyond Birkenstock. They have in no way altered their ideological beliefs. Any comments concerning material you find offensive should be addressed to the editors of this publication. Beyond Birkenstock in no way espouses or condones the use of illicit drugs. In fact, if every

the death penalty, there would be a lot fewer casual users.)

Recently, we have experienced a revelation of sorts. You may recall seeing, in this space, a column entitled Beyond Birkenstock. Well, the Birkenstockers live; they merely exist in a new and improved form. This revelation is such that it has changed our priorities beyond recognition. You must be thinking to yourselves, “What could have brought about this change? What could have altered our beloved Birkenstockers? Was it sex? Was it wine? Was it song? Was it cold, harsh reality?” Well friends, it was none of the above. Illegal drugs have revealed a new and wonderful existence to the Birks. Pot, to be precise. This isWhy we are devoting an entire week’s column to exhorting the Davidson Community to grow their own Pot! That’s right boys and girls. The answer to all of your problems doesn’t lie in the books you have been reading; it has nothing to do with all the money you hope to make when you get out of this place; the answer to all of your petty problems lies in marijuana. Imagine, if you will, a typical Davidson student slaving away over a tough paper. This requires time and effort, focus and, inevitably, frustration. And, as we all know, frustration can lead to carelessness (or the over-use of your right hand). Most sentence fragments, comma splices, and all other horrible syntax errors, can be chalked up to frustration. Grammatical errors are the result of not ever realizing how tense you usually are when you're writing. Indeed, these feelings can even be caused by writing a column for your average college. Matter of fact, we can set you up with two plants, some Miracle-Gro and a small, but adequate, sun lamp for just $19.95! And if you act now, we’ll throw in some rolling paper absolutely free! By the way... all those commercials you may have seen showing good kids gone bad, their poor, young brains frying on the stove, are just a further example of the media’s distortions and half-truths. That’s not really your brain—that’s an egg! And if you could really get high off a stove, believe us, we’d know about it. So, kiddies, don’t believe everything you hear on TV. (Guys—a note about our names. Please use John and Margaret Doe, rather than Seth and Kyle. Our political careers are at stake!)

And embarrassing undergarments in my life, from that day on, I’ve been wearing silk bikini briefs just like everyone else. I gained a whole new self-image, and all the confidence necessary to be a true leader of society. What did I care what people thought of me or said behind my back when I had the power of individual intimacy? What did it matter what my grades were? Who needed girls? College life has been an absolute joy for me, and I think I owe it all to touching myself. I don’t have to be embarrassed about how I keep myself warm, because at a place like Davidson College, it’s the only sexual outlet anybody has. It’s not like I’m the only one not getting any. Just about everybody at Davidson plays the pocket piano every now and then. The best thing about this place is that there are so many places on campus to just drop my drawers and dance with the jam master. Late at night in the 24-hour room of the library, the empty rooms of Chambers, the Union Cafe, my Psychology class, all of these are great. Heck, I even like to touch o’ Tony at the parties on Patterson Court. It’s especially exciting when there are a bunch of guys lined up on the wall “going to the bathroom.” How these kids waste the opportunity on simple urination. I like to go for the gusto and truly relieve myself right then and there. I seem to be getting a little carried away here, so I’ll make this brief. Reach out and touch yourself, people, it can change your world. In the words of Woody Allen, “don’t knock masturbation. It’s sex with someone I love.”

DISCLAIMER: As stated in the photo's caption, Doug Jobe had absolutely nothing to do with the authorship of the preceding article. We just happened to have the photo lying around in the office and thought it was too damned good to go without being published. How it happened to wind up right smack dab in the middle of an article about bedwetting and masturbation is anybody's guess. Of course, no one on The Davidphonian staff would ever consider poking fun at a public figure like the former SGA president. We just wouldn't do that. Of course they do!

DO THESE MEN LOOK DIFFERENT TO YOU?

These formerly dull and unhappy administrators have changed their very lives, all by becoming members of The Hair Club for Davidson Men. Yes, it's the Hair Club for Davidson Men, where almost anyone can be made to look their best! You can choose between a variety of styles to cover your utterly unyouthful and embarrassing baldness! Every style, including the Kuykendall Wave, The Longmeister, and The Dean Terry Dread Head are absolutely guaranteed to look completely natural!