12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Kiss Continued from page 12.

is another fine example of the abilities of Dr. Mary Nell Saunders. The orchestra players—Ellen Phillips Brewer, piano; Michael Glaser, percussion; and Gregg Sartiano, bass—receive kudos for their excellent performances. Who would think that so few instruments could produce such a full, rich sound?

The dance sequences were remarkably well suited and well performed. Terilynne Parker did an excellent job choreographing dances which were not too technically difficult for the amateur dancers. At the same time, these dances were exciting, graceful, and vibrant. The hypnotically lithe movements of Trevor Wade, a 1991 Davidson graduate, as she slid across the stage were alone worth the money for the tickets.

The sets designed by Joseph Gardner transformed the stage into dressing rooms, the charming town of Padua, and Petruchio’s home with ease. Their brilliant colors were matched only by those of the costumes. Seeing Davidson’s men and women doing a tarantella dressed in green, blue, red, orange, and yellow, the stage became a kaleidoscope.

The weakest part of this production was at the end. Shakespeare ends his version with the total submission of Kate and the dominance of Petruchio. This was fine in his day. In today’s “enlightened” world, this is quite disturbing. The Shakespearean ending is kept in the Davidson production as Barnes declares a woman’s duty in “Women Are So Simple”. However, the ending written for Kiss Me, Kate also includes the submission of Fred and his pompous ways in his declaration “So In Love”. This part was cut from the production and leaves the end unresolved.

Kiss Me, Kate is a collaboration of the Theatre and Music Departments of Davidson College. It was written by Samuel and Bella Spewack and composed by Cole Porter. It is directed by Rupert Barber, conducted by Mary Nell Saunders, and choreographed by Terilynne Parker with sets designed by Joseph Gardner. It will be performed October 10, 11, 12, 17, 18, and 19 at 8:00 and October 13 at 2:30 in Hodson Hall.

Live, Learn And Intern In Washington, D.C. This Summer

The Institute On Comparative Political And Economic Systems
The Institute On Political Journalism
The Bryce Harlow Institute On Business And Government Affairs

Georgetown University, June 10 - July 24, 1992

If you are an undergraduate student with a strong interest in political science, economics, international relations, journalism, or business, you will want to apply to one of these unique six-week programs. Numerous scholarships are available. While living on the campus of Georgetown University, you will:
* Attend two classes at Georgetown University. Taught by Georgetown University faculty, students earn six credit hours for coursework
* Intern on Capitol Hill, government offices, private sector organizations, news bureaus, or press offices
* Attend weekly lectures with foreign policy experts, noted journalists, or government affairs professionals
* Meet and question national leaders at on-site briefings at various Washington, D.C. locations

The application deadlines are:
1/7/92 Early Decision
2/15/92 Regular Decision

For more information contact The Fund for American Studies
1526 18th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036 / 202-986-0384

Bumstead Continued from page 9.

possible that the CMA was declaring that Reba had joined company with Alabama (and perhaps Randy Travis), as big acts for whom they are tired of voting. And how did the Kentucky Headhunters win? In ’90, they were a great novelty; in ’91, they showed little in the way of creativity or diversity.They did next to nothing, yet they won. Two ways in which an unlikely or undeserving candidate can be nominated or win (besides through voter favoritism) are through a labelmate split (or as in Song of the Year, with two Brooks songs and two Jackson songs, an artist split), or through sheer politics. Since Patty Loveless came on the scene, neither she nor Reba have had much luck at the CMA’s - both are on MCA. (And, since these were the two strongest choices for the year, they may well have split, giving Tucker the win.) By politics, I mean that, come CMA time, executives of certain rumored record labels get together and agree to trade votes; the companies play a great part in the nominating process. Any companies that do not take part in such alliances get left out in the cold. Sony and Arista had big winners in the June TNN awards, voted on by the fans. But Sony got almost completely shut out of the nominations, and Alan Jackson didn’t win one award. It’s a rough, cutthroat business.

Well, I’ve spoken my last now on the CMA awards, but I can’t help but dwell on how wonderful they were. One prize moment came in Brooks’ acceptance speech for the final award. He thanked his two heroes. “I love my Georges: George Strait and George Jones.” Having told them that they were the best, he turned pale and looked almost sick as he added “uh... no offense, Mr. President...” There’s something about the CMA’s that is unlike any other show. The country music scene can be described in no other way than as a family. Sure it’s competitive, but it’s loving. There are tears; there are cries of joy; and there is warmth. It’s nice to see the Male Vocalist of the Year get teary. It was wonderful to hear the tremor in Garth’s voice as he accepted the big award for entertainer, and to see him hug his idol (and competitor) George Strait, who had expected only a handshake. They were silly, emotional, sincere, and just having fun.

GOLD RING SALE
SAVE UP TO $100.00
OCT. 14-15 ONLY!
You Can Afford To Brag
JOSTENS
Deposit Required: $15.00
Date: OCT. 14-15
Time: 10-3
BOOKSTORE
Meet with your Jostens representative for full details. See our complete ring selection on display in your college bookstore.

Classic Film Showing: Euripides’ Iphigenia
Wednesday, October 16
7:00 PM
Perkins Auditorium
Everyone Invited

Photography Continued from page 9.
Photography can at least pull one frame of life from the mindless rapidity and treat it as if it held deeper meaning. I wish, as do many other students, that Davidson offered more courses in photography. As a corollary to photography, I have taken a few art courses and am now trying a very inexperienced hand at Basic Drawing. After graduation, I hope to intern at The Charlotte Observer and later attend The School of Journalism at UNC Chapel-Hill.

DAVIDSON STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER
Room 08 Union Bldg. Basement
Call Ext. 2451 for appointment
Want Help? We’re Here.
@ Study Skills
@ Family issues
@ Time management
@ Eating disorders
@ Stress management
@ Depression
@ Sexuality
@ Anxiety
@ Relationships
@ Alcohol & substance abuse

DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.
David Staton, Ph.D., Director
Christine Davidson, Secretary
Molly Terry, MSW