“THE DAVIDSONIAN" OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

Beyond Birkenstock

We Apologize.

Well, it is good to be back, isn’t it? We’re in the home stretch of the academic season here at
Davidson (around here, they don’t stop serving beer in the seventh) and we’re happy to be able to continue to
bring you biting humor and insightful commentary once again. It turns out that our HUMOR (you know, those things that
are supposed to elicit a HUMOROUS response because they are meant to be FUNNY) last week was less insightful than
inciting (to riot, that is). Our comment concerning UNLV was not appreciated by several of our colleagues on campus due
to simple misinterpretation.

In case there are any blank places in your memory of spring break, and the period immediately before, we predicted
that Carolina or Pitt would win the NCAA tournament. (So much for our psychic ability to call basketball games.) Now
for the controversial part; we put in parentheses a comparison of the UNLV team to a bunch of Neanderthals. Neanderthals,
in case you were wondering, are a raceless group of paleolithic men, not widely known for their intelligence. (Yeah, we
know the anthropological arguments for the crania size of the paleolithic man.) So when we said that UNLV dragged its
knuckles onto the court, we were acknowledging the widespread media perception that the UNLV players were less intelligent than your
average household appliance. Call it intellectual snobbery (the Duke students hung a sign last year when UNLV played the Blue
Devils that read, “Welcome Fellow Scholars”).

We regret that we have reached the point at Davidson where any off-the-cuff remark with no offensive intent must necessarily
meet a politically “safe” criteria before being printed to save people the trouble of being offended.

J. Kyle Kinner and Seth J. McLaughlin

The fact that these students judged our comment as racially motivated is itself disheartening. If, (your mother probably told you
this when you were little), you expect the worst in someone, you’ll probably find it, regardless of whether it’s there
or not. In fact, we were judged and sentenced before we were even questioned. People started calling us about three
hours after dinner on Monday, to inform us that we were the F***ing racist product of a F***ing racist college.
Insults are apparently easier than intellectual response. As we write this column, no one has bothered to pen a written
response to the Davidsonian. Here’s your chance folks. If you don’t like what we write, either don’t read the column
or write a response, but don’t ask us to compromise for your wounded sensibilities.

We find the fact that we have received more response to the aspects of our column dealing with humor than
those dealing with legitimate political issues upsetting. For example, when we wrote an article concerning Jakob Holdt’s exhibit “American Pictures”,
we received no response. This surprised us. Here was a legitimate political problem for which we provided a controversial solution.
An eminent black scholar, Shelby Steele, commenting on the American poverty matrix, stated: “Since the social victim has been oppressed
by society, he comes to feel that his individual life will be improved more by changes in society than by
his own initiative.” According to Steele, there have been “twenty years of decline and demoralization, even as opportunities for blacks
to better themselves have increased... but there is a reluctance among blacks to examine this paradox... because it

CLIMATE AND SEA LEVEL: OUR HABITS AND THE OCEAN

Many of us spent last week on the oceanside shores, soaking up the sun and playing, swimming, and surfing in
the ocean. Few of us probably thought much about the waters in which we were wading. But our oceans are
some of our most vital resources, and there is much concern around the world that the same abuse of our
terrestrial resources is occurring against our rivers, seas, and oceans.

Over vacation, I spoke to Paul Gayes, Director of the Center for Marine and Wetland Studies at the University of
South Carolina-Coastal, about his thoughts about the state of our oceans. Gayes is participating in a worldwide study to try
to determine how sea level changes on the coasts affect the climate. Gayes is also working to determine the impact
of Hurricane Hugo on the Southeastern section of the Atlantic Coastline. Gayes is trying to identify where the sea level
has been in the past, how quickly it has moved, and to compare different sea levels throughout the world to
determine if some regular change pattern is a global phenomenon. Gayes’ group drills pipes into the sediment inIn order to
examine the series of deposits that have been left over time, he looks at microfossil vegetation to determine where the
sea level was at certain periods. By analyzing the different organisms in the sediment, he can approximate the sea level
through his knowledge of the normal habitation levels of the known organisms. Sarah Sadowski

Gayes also uses techniques such as radiocarbon dating and the sound method. The latter method uses a "subbottom profiler" to
send a pulse of pressure with sound to penetrate the earth under the ocean. The pulse then bounces back up,
constructing cross-sections of the earth. Gayes has found that 4,000 years ago, the sea level at Myrtle Beach was higher
than other places on the east coast, and it has been rising since. Even a mere 20 miles away, the
earth’s surface has been moving differentially compared to the area at Myrtle Beach. Oceanographers think that this movement in sea
level is climatically related, but they are still uncertain of the direct link between climate and changing sea levels. Gayes
is studying the effects of storms from 4,000 years ago, as well as Hugo, in an attempt to answer this
question.

One of the difficulties in this study has to do with intersecting theories, such as that of the greenhouse effect.
On the one hand, Gayes stated that we are at a peak of a warm interglacial period, and our global
temperatures are fairly on par with estimates of global temperatures of other peak interglacial periods of thousands of years ago.
On the other hand, Gayes assessed the coastal and estuary waters as becoming worse, for petroleum and hydrogen products are
staying in the sediment, and the entire food chain from mononucleus organisms to ourselves has been disturbed.

According to Gayes, there is no technical solution to the environmental hazards created by industry. There are too many factors
that play a role when it comes to cleaning up our oceans. The best solution he finds is efficiency. We
can no longer afford to be so wasteful, and we need to cut down on our use of resources. The
ocean works in natural cycles, of which we know very little about. We need to re-stabilize these cycles by ending
the abuse of our wastefulness against our waters. Efficiency can put time on our side, but otherwise, time will work
against us.

Shelby Steele suggests that racial victimization is not our real problem. If conditions have worsened for most of us as
racism has receded, then much of the problem must be of our own making. Where was the outrage? Where was
any response? We can only assume that either everyone agreed with us or else no one cared enough to respond.
What we are basically saying is that we resent having something entirely apolitical turned into something political. If you disagree
with us politically, we can respect your opinion. We do not and cannot respect those who judge us without attempting
to understand what we say.

Shelby Steele also has something to say about these phenomena: "I think those who provoke this sort of awkwardness are
operating out of a black identity that obliges them to badger white people about race almost on principle... one sees
evidence of this in the near happiness with which certain black leaders recount the horror of Howard Beach and other
recent (and I think over-celebrated) instances of racial tension... As one is saddened by these tragic events, one is also
repelled at the way some black leaders—agitated to near hysteria by the scent of victim-power inherent in them—leap forward to
exploit them as evidence of black innocence and white guilt."

Admittedly, the UNLV comment was not a great intellectual statement, but it wasn’t racist either. Our colleagues demanded an apology
for nothing more than our writing a sentence that they misinterpreted. Well, we are sorry that they misinterpreted our intent,
but we are not sorry for writing the sentence.

N.B.: W.C. Fields reportedly met a woman who demanded he apologize for calling her ugly. Characteristically, Fields replied: "I’m sorry
you’re ugly."

As I read that definition, an image came to me of my mother on my first day of preschool. I
saw her cooking dinner, beside the stove, so cheerful and warm. I saw my mother sitting and working. As a
domestic worker, my mother had no income. Any money she had was given to her by my father. This affected
her freedom; he made the decisions about how and why.
