THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Sports

Wildcats Struggle in Football Loss to Guilford College
By Bruce Balestier

In a game they played themselves out of with turnovers, penalties, and missed tackles, Davidson began its 1991 season Saturday
with a convincing 21-3 defeat at the hands of Guilford College. The Wildcats actually moved the football effectively between their
20-yard line and the Quakers’ 25-yard line, but had several drives stall in Guilford territory, turned the ball over five
times, and managed just a 31-yard field goal by Drew Fassett.

Of course, matters were made more difficult by the first-quarter injury of starting quarterback Richard Howell. Howell ran the option
smoothly (3 rushes for 36 yards) before being knocked out of the game with bruised ribs. The ‘Cats opening possession,
led by Howell, was a model for several others during the course of the game. A 13-yard run by Howell
and an 11-yard pass play from Howell to Dan Lamar (6 receptions for 98 yards) set up a Davidson first
down at the Guilford 20-yard line. But the drive ground to a halt with a pair of incomplete passes, and
the Wildcats came away with nothing when Fassett missed a 42-yard field goal.

The Quakers got all the scoring they would need late in the first quarter, when wide receiver Chip Hester broke
free of two Wildcat tacklers to score on a 54-yard pass from quarterback Chip Hester. With Howell’s injury began the
baptism by fire of freshman backup quarterback Kevin Holzworth. Holzworth completed 8 of 20 passes for 131 yards and was
sacked 5 times and intercepted once, but suffered mainly from inexperience. Afterward, Holzworth said: “It’s football. I got initiated.” Perhaps
the highlight for him was a 28-yard pass play to Bruce Bannister in the second quarter that placed the Wildcats
at the Guilford 21-yard line. Unfortunately, a fumble by Bannister on the following play drew the drive to an abrupt
close.

Davidson notched their only points on their last drive of the first half. A 19-yard pass from Holzworth to Lamar
set up a first down at the Quaker 11-yard line. After an incomplete pass and a sack, the ‘Cats settled
for a 31-yard field goal from Fassett. Fassett was also a defensive hero, limiting Guilford field position with 6 punts
for a 42-yard average. The Quakers put the game on ice during the fourth quarter with a pair of sustained
touchdown drives in which they ran the ball up the middle of the Davidson defense virtually at will.

The sloppy loss left Davidson head coach Dave Fagg somewhat shaken. “We need to go back to work - maybe
to the drawing board offensively,” he said. “When our offense doesn’t score a touchdown, that runs up a red flag.”
Davidson returns to action in their home opener Saturday against Clinch Valley.

Alumni Invitational Kicks Off Cross Country Season
By Richard Wharton

Hot lead and cool breezes was the theme for this year’s Davidson Open/Alumni Invitational race this Saturday, as several of
Davidson’s finest runners and alumni showed up for the annual meet. This year’s race was quite possibly the largest yet.Thirty-nine
men and fifteen women competed against the clock and each other. When the men’s 8k race went off at nine
o'clock, Davidson’s number one man, Chris Otrok, took off at the starting line and never looked back, finishing in first
place with a new personal record of 27:52. Right behind him, running unattached this season, was junior David Kerns, running
at 28:02. Kerns, who will be attending St. Andrews College this year, is already looking forward to next year’s race
and his return to the team. Finishing in succession after Kerns were current Davidson runners Ian Stewart, Cam Dauler, and
Chris Otrok, '92. Next across the line was returning alumnus John Moss ('91), finishing at 28:58, his fastest time ever
on the Davidson course. Rounding out the top ten were Wildcats senior captain Ted Richardson, Richard Wharton, and Kevin Wilson,
with alumnus Barry Bishop ('68) running a 30:19.

In the women’s race, Davidson runners took places two through eight, showing strong promise for the challenges they will encounter
this fall. Susan Davidson Rollins, alumnus ('80), took the overall lead with a very strong 19:54, eclipsing an Alumni Invitational
record that had stood for three years. Right behind her was venerable speedster Kathy Beach, whose excellent performance of 20:01
sets her right on track for an awesome season. Following Beach, Karen Marshall showed her strength with a 20:27, reaping
the benefits of her year of experience. One minute behind her, Freshman Elizabeth Bishop showed that she is not only
good, but is well prepared to handle the kind of competition she will face this season. Erik McMichael, making up
a strong “top five” contingent for the upcoming meets at Clemson and elsewhere in the Carolinas.

Spikers Hit High Point to Open Season
By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson volleyball team somewhat leisurely opened their season Wednesday night, outclassing an inferior High Point team by a 15-3,
15-6, 16-14 count. The Wildcats made their intentions clear from the start, taking 10 consecutive points to run out to
a 13-1 lead in the first game. The second game had a similar storyline; after spotting High Point a 6-3
lead, the ‘Cats scored 12 straight points to close out the game. In the final game, the Davidson reserves suffered
from spurts of lackadaisical play, and actually fought off a pair of High Point game points at 14-13 before recording
the victory.

The match had everything we have come to expect from Davidson volleyball; Holt Hathaway directed traffic from her setter position
and set up the cannon spikes of hitters Mimi Plauche, Amy Howard, and Janet Delery. Hathaway, though, received an uncharacteristic
rest during the final game. In the past, lack of depth at the setter position has forced coach Rebecca Hawkins
to play Hathaway virtually from wire to wire. In this match, Hawkins gave Davidson volleyball fans a glimpse of the
future when she inserted freshman Lorie Logan into the lineup at setter. The transfer was a smooth one; Logan took
charge immediately and guided the reserves to their final game win.

Davidson returned to action over the weekend at the Piccadeli Tournament at Appalachian State, where they defeated Big South foe
Winthrop 15-10, 15-7, 15-8, and fell to the host Mountaineers 15-13, 13-15, 16-14, 12-15, 8-15.
