NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tuition: Not Pocket Change Anymore

BOULDER, Colo. (CPS) -- Employees at the bursar’s office at the University of Colorado recently got a shock when a student pushed a wheelbarrow into the office filled to overflowing with quarters and pennies -- $1,134 to be exact. The money? One year’s tuition. The wheelbarrow driver was in a definite I’m-angry-and-I’m-not-going-to-take-it-anymore kind of mood. “It’s just not pocket change anymore,” read a sign taped to the side of the wheelbarrow.

The angry student was William Roberts, a senior who said the stunt was a symbolic gesture to inform the regents that tuition, which rose seven percent, is becoming a real problem for students. Roberts said the money was wrapped in paper wrappers to allow for easy counting by the bursar’s office employees.

Athletes Want Out Of Citadel Scholarships

CHARLESTON, S.C. (CPS) -- Two of the four freshmen athletes who left The Citadel amid hazing controversies and complaints against the school’s Fourth Class system are now asking to be released from their scholarships. But, according to school officials, the athletic director will not release them because they might transfer to rival schools.

According to NCAA rules, scholarship athletes who are not granted a release to a transfer school forfeit one year of financial aid and two years of eligibility. Athletes who are released are immediately eligible for financial aid and can participate in their sport for three years. Although the conference commissioner has recommended against granting the release and although the athletic director has said such releases are never granted, the parents of the two students say this case is special because hazing forced their sons to leave.

Dead Professor Apparently Was Bigamist

PALO ALTO, Calif. (CPS) -- As if Stanford University hadn’t been handling enough problems of its own, up popped three -- no, one -- more last month. After pediatrics professor and lung transplant researcher Norman Lewiston died in August, a local newspaper ran his obituary, which named his widow.

Shortly after the obituary ran, another woman called the Stanford Medical School to tell officials she was Lewiston’s widow. Finally, a few weeks later, a third wife was discovered -- the woman, a San Diego nurse, had filed for divorce just one month before Lewiston died. An investigation by school officials found that Lewiston married his third wife two years ago, his second wife five years ago, and his first wife in 1960, with whom he had three children. The third wife had told reporters she thought he had divorced his first two wives.

WRITE FOR NEWS CALL TOM (-6582) OR TOM (-6370)

Write for two of the South's Foremost College News Editors

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.

CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.

LSAT * GMAT * GRE * MCAT

Schultz Discusses NCAA Reform

By Bruce Balestier

Dick Schultz, the Executive Director of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, spoke Friday night to an audience of about four hundred people at Belk Arena on the past, present, and future of the NCAA. Schultz worked with Davidson Athletic Director Terry Holland from 1981-87, when Schultz was the Athletic Director and Holland the Head Basketball Coach at the University of Virginia.

At the center of Schultz’s speech were the results of a recent NCAA survey, consisting of personal interviews with a group of 4,000 randomly selected college athletes. The consensus of those athletes was threefold: first, that they didn’t have “enough time to be the kind of students [they] want[ed] to be;” second, that they didn’t have “enough time in the off-season to do what other students do;” and third, that they suffered from a pervasive feeling of isolation.

Schultz outlined the NCAA’s ongoing platform of reform in response to that survey. At last year’s NCAA Convention, the delegates voted to limit the number of hours an athlete could devote to his or her sport per week to 20, and voted to eradicate, over a period of 5 years, athletic dormitories and training tables, those things which contribute most to the athlete’s sense of isolation from the student body as a whole. Schultz stated that it was the NCAA’s goal “to make the student-athlete an integral part of the student body, and undistinguishable from the rest of the student body.” To that end, Schultz predicts that academic reforms will highlight the 1992 NCAA Convention, perhaps led by a tightening of freshman eligibility requirements.Presently, an incoming freshman qualifies to play with a 700 SAT score and a 2.0 GPA in 11 core classes. Proposed legislation, likely, according to Schultz, to be enacted at next year’s convention, would raise that standard to a 2.5 GPA in 13 core courses. In addition, Schultz supports the creation of a certification process for athletic departments which would help ensure that admissions procedures and academic criteria for athletes were similar to that of the student body at large. “We want to be sure we have bona-fide student-athletes, not athlete-students,” he said. “Colleges and universities were not established as farm clubs of the NBA, or the NFL or Major League Baseball,” said Schultz. “Our first responsibility, if we recruit young men and women and bring them to campus, is to make sure that when they leave they are well-educated, have a degree and are prepared to be contributors to society.”

Schultz also talked at some length about the relationship of the media to college athletics. He characterized excessive media coverage of the troubles of so-called bad athletes as a “lightning rod” for generalizations, and pointed out the results of a recent NCAA survey. In that survey, which dealt with 270,000 participating college athletes, the number that reasonably could be labeled bad or troubled fell well short of 1% of the total.

Of particular interest to Davidson, Schultz discussed briefly the concept of Division I-AAA, the proposed new NCAA division for schools like Davidson which play at the Division III level in football but at the Division I level in all other sports. He said there was significant opposition to I-AAA from Division II and I-AA schools concerned that I-AAA schools could save money by playing Division III football (since Division III awards no scholarships) and use those savings to advance their basketball programs. He now regards the proposal as a “toss-up vote” at the 1992 Convention.

Barber Continued from page 1

Barber pointed out several reasons, geographic, cultural, economic, and political, why the U.S. and Europe view the Soviet Union so differently. The threat from the Soviet Union, Barber noted, is no longer based in military strength, but in instability, and Americans tend to approach the problem differently than Europeans. The American tradition of self-help and determination is not necessarily a tenet of European life, Barber pointed out, and this discrepancy will be the grounds for several differences in policy.

The American presence, according to Barber, is still necessary and positive in Europe despite its current military irrelevance. Barber called the “Fortress Europe” mentality in some Americans regarding the development of the Common Market and the fall of communism as indicative of “American angst.” Barber believes that the United States’ role in Europe and especially in the Soviet Union will no longer be as the sole leaders of any movement, but in partnership with the Europeans.

Barber was educated at St. Edmund’s Hall of Oxford University, where he received his joint degrees in German and Modern History. In addition to his work with the Financial Times, Barber has co-authored two books, The Price of Truth and Not Without Honor, and has appeared on several television news programs to provide commentary. In 1981 Barber received Britain’s Outstanding Young Journalist Award. He has worked for the Financial Times since 1986.