THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

Homosexuality And Luke Skywalker: Confusion Rains

As I ate lunch the other day with a group of friends who are notoriously energetic conversationalists, I was somewhat dismayed at the grim silence that seemed likely to dominate what a week before would have been a very pleasant dining experience.

Bob Hornsby

Rather than succumb to the wartime urge to eat meals in silence and avoid meeting anyone’s gaze, though, I decided to strike a blow for the survival of the Vail Commons Dinner Conversation: I told those silent, brooding friends of my plans for Spring Break. Actually, one of the less silent ones asked what my plans were, but since I’m telling the story I will take credit for the liveliness of the discussion that followed. If anybody else that was there wants some recognition they can write their own column - I’m not running a charity benefit. But I must continue.

All in hearing range were quite impressed by my enviable plans for “les vacances de printemps,” as they say in French Guiana. For you see, I am on a mission from God. I am making a pilgrimage to the most sacred city of Chicago, where my Grandfather's former neighbor’s son will give me a tour of his place of business. Ah, now, dear reader, your curiosity has been sparked! You burn inside, wanting to know what this business might be ... but burn no more. This relative of a friend of a relative of mine runs a mail order prophylactic, lingerie, scented oil, and aphrodisiac company.

Now before you even pick up the phone to call and ask my permission to come along, remember two things: 1) you may not, and 2) this is only an introduction to what I shall call the essence of the column, which is actually more stimulating than that silly old factory tour could ever be. Intellectually, that is.

Well, as conversations often do, this one (we were having a dinner conversation, remember?) changed course a number of times, making its way from brief talk about mail order companies to a longer discussion of... you guessed it: homosexuality.

WHOA.....easy there, fella. I realize you haven’t heard that word on this campus for a while, much less seen it in print, but try to bear with me here. As I mentioned before, my friends were wearing their unhappy-about-the-war hats, and no average topic was going to restore the flow of blood to their above-average brains. So at last, thanks to my catalytic presence, discussion began in earnest. Since neither of the umbrella twins from the land Beyond Birkenstock were around, we could actually participate in an intelligent exchange of ideas without being concerned about a rash of homophobic eye-plucking.

If the last sentence escaped you, reader, forgive me. I mean that the people present ranged from moderates (much like myself) to representatives of what you might term the political left -- a crowd sure to have some well-thought-out opinions on the issue of (here it comes again) homosexuality.

For instance, why are people at Davidson leery about saying the word ho.... homo... well, I’ve already used it twice. I don’t have to prove anything. And whatever happened to the GSG? Were their eyes plucked out? Why does the person at the table who claims to have homosexual friends get stares of awe and disbelief? Why do some uptight people become upset when people view homosexuality from a purely sexual standpoint? What makes a homosexual relationship different from any same-sex friendship, if it isn’t the sex? And if that’s what differentiates the two, then is the sex the essence of homosexuality? Can an individual truly secure in his own ideologies really be so solicitous of his neighbor’s life enough to care whether or not that neighbor is homosexual?

Why didn’t Luke join the Dark Side? Why are congressmen so stupid and political analysts so smart? Why do people kill each other?

I guess it was pointless to try to escape the specter of war through table talk, after all. But we can look on the bright side: at least they put a T.V. in the Commons. Rather than having to grasp for topics of conversation, we now have the option of focusing our grim visage on the image of Peter Jennings. That should cheer us up.

Insult Continued from page 6

Contrary to the estimates of the department of military sanitization, (you know, the people who replaced “killed” with “not thoroughly successful in liberative efforts”) the gulf war will probably not end soon.

Authorized Continued from Page 6

Authorized the use of force, and Congress has given President Bush the right to exercise that option; yet Ms. Ott states that she and her colleagues cannot support the troop’s “boss.” Mr. Bush is not acting alone; he is the instrument of international will. Ms. Ott simply “disagree(s) with the administration that putHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

them there.” Perhaps Ms. Ott and her colleagues should direct their energies towards the administration that really put them there—Saddam Hussein’s. (Her freedom of expression would not be so closely guarded in Iraq.) Ms. Ott also states that they “gather for peace with the troops in mind—not out of antagonism.” She seems sincere; so are those people who actually have relatives in the gulf. One such person, Dennis Oltorik of Cincinnati, Ohio told USA, “All we can do to effectively support the troops is to hope and pray for their swift and safe return from combat.”

P.S. Special thanks to Ellen Ott for stating this case so well on her poster presently hanging outside of Chambers. Please, take note that she had the courage to put her name below her words rather than cower in the pathetic anonymity chosen by the abusive and uncivil hawks. They are not only willing to fight, but seem to have an accurate understanding of the factors that motivated their presence. Ms. Ott’s concern for the safety of those soldiers stationed in the gulf is a thinly veiled attack on the United Nations’ imperative that territorial aggrandizement cannot be an instrument of foreign policy. Do we agree with Ms. Ott? “Not.” In our humble but correct opinion, this kind of invidious protest demoralizes the “troops.” Our soldiers have enough to worry about without the specter of another Vietnam, and the associated protests, further destabilizing their confidence. It is imperative that we show our support for the “troops” as well as the leaders of this country. Surrender must come from Iraq. Hussein necessitated these actions with his aggression and total disregard for the world community; now he must initiate peace. Ms. Ott's concern for the safety of these soldiers is a thinly veiled attack on the United Nations’ imperative that territorial aggrandizement cannot be an instrument of foreign policy.

Today, he hopes his brother Thomas is “being strong and... concentrating on his job and not worrying about us.” Ms. Ott says that they realize that “the men and women in the gulf are doing a job,” but she and others like her won’t let our soldiers do their jobs to the best of their ability. Instead, her contention that those serving in the gulf are merely “doing a job,” with the implicit understanding that they are there against their will, is false. By all the accounts we’ve seen of media interviews, the “troops” are not only willing to fight, but seem to have an accurate understanding of the factors that motivated their presence. Our soldiers are the ones who will have to convince him that this is the will of the world and they need our support. As Senator Jesse Helms (victor, you will recall, over former senatorial candidate H. Gantt) said on January 12th, “There are certain occasions in the history of nations when people are called upon to reaffirm the integrity of the national interest. This is one of those occasions... if we allow aggression to disrupt our relationships with friendly governments, the strength and independence of the United States is threatened.”

Can We Have Fair Faculty Evaluations?

Praise Will Montgomery for writing an interesting article of relevance to all! I know how badly students need extra information, especially incoming freshmen, who are expected to get by on a sheaf of green papers and one-sentence descriptions. I personally also know the difficulties involved in starting one. Last year, as a freshman, a bunch of hallmates and I began thinking about a student course guide. We first envisioned an entirely student-run publication, utilizing a Consumer Reports format. But as Montgomery pointed out, this approach can easily lead to libelous publications. How could we have a fair, objective publication? A publication run entirely by the “student body” would in fact be run by a small group of student editors, each with their own opinions. Secondly, there’s the danger, as Montgomery said, of it becoming a popularity contest.

But there is a way to do this. We came up with it after seeing Dean Terry and Sue Ross, and I think it’s good. We simply have to get the teachers involved. Imagine a page for each professor, with a two by two photo in the top right corner and a list of biographical info. Then imagine an interview with each professor, asking him first for a general description of his teaching philosophy (every prof has one), one that highlights what he is not as well as what he is. Then come the questions about specific courses. What focus does this class have? What types of material do you require for it? What makes your course different from other courses in the department, or your specific class in relation to other sections?

This system has several advantages. First, it lets the bad professors damn themselves. Secondly, it gives good professors a chance to explain their classes more clearly, something the present course guide does not allow. Moreover, by supporting this enterprise, they would be staving off the “dirty little books” that exist on other campuses. Wouldn’t teachers simply lie? Some might, but if their peer faculty let them know that they took it seriously, then mendacious profs would lose face not only among students but among their peers. This is just one proposal, and I think it works better as a Freshman Course Guide than as an Upperclassmen Guide. Whatever is decided, it will be a lot of work. My friends and I were forced to give up our plans once we hit sophomore year.

Got An Opinion?