THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1990

Campus Living
By Oma Blaise and Chappell Wescoat

The Union Gallery is currently housing an exhibit of drawings and prints by native South Carolinian Robert Spencer. This African-American
artist was born in South Carolina and studied at South Carolina State (B.A., Art Education) and Clemson University (M.F.A., Drawing
and Printmaking). He now chiefly exhibits his work here in the South.

The 11 pieces on display in the Union include various types of prints as well as charcoal and pastel drawings.
Spencer’s art focuses primarily on solitary human figures, and his self-proclaimed intent is “to stimulate spiritual and emotional chords” in
the viewer. He expects the viewer to use his work as a “catalyst to ignite an intrinsic probing to achieve
self-enlightenment,” to look within one’s own self.

Pieces such as Hallelujah (Linocut) and Struggle (Woodcut), each of a single figure emerging from the swirling chaos of black
and white lines, express great emotion and gesture. These pieces also illustrate his belief in the value of the space
surrounding the figure, which “also evolves into a spiritual entity itself... almost equal in status to the figure.”

So, if you’ve passed by these prints and drawings in the Union without a second glance, go back and take
the time to really look. Admire Spencer’s craftsmanship and find out if they really do evoke his intended self-inquiry.

Photo By Chris Lee
Robert Spencer's exhibit of drawings and prints are currently on display in the Union Gallery.

Write for Campus Living
Call May at x6589 or Jennifer at x6252

1966: Davidson Alumnus Reflects On His Senior Year And Vietnam
By Lee McKeever

My father’s senior year at Davidson was not a time of job interviews or of applying to graduate school; instead,
he spent 1966 knowing that the minute he received his diploma, he would be called to serve in the Vietnam
War. There was no alternative.

ROTC was mandatory for all Davidson students for a period of two years. Most students did not elect to continue
ROTC for their junior and senior years, because doing so meant an additional two years of full-time Army service and
a commitment to a six-week summer program. As our country’s commitment to the Vietnam War grew during the 60s, the
draft became a vehicle for gathering qualified men for the Army. It no longer mattered if you were committed to
the Army because of ROTC; every eligible male was required to serve. Even so, the independent draft boards had great
latitude in determining all sorts of creative deferment status.

Doug McKeever was not medically unfit, married with children, mentally insane, or declared a “natural resource.” During his junior year,
he decided to try to obtain deferment by attending graduate school. Unfortunately, in late 1965, the government decided that this
was no longer a viable alternative to service.

When asked why he did not become a “conscientious objector,” he responded, “I had no choice but to actively participate
in Vietnam. I am not a politically radical person, and I believe that citizenship does entail certain responsibilities. Of course,
serving in Vietnam was not my idea of a graduation gift; it was a fact of life.”

Were there any options? “I could either take my chances in the infantry or sign up for a branch of
the service that might be more attractive.” McKeever applied for an inactive reserve unit in the Air Force, which provided
for a six-month delay in active duty.

"This may have delayed career decisions, but at 21 I had no idea what I really wanted to do. I
consider my five years in the Air Force extremely beneficial with regards to gaining leadership and teaching skills, being able
to travel all over the western half of the United States, having time to learn how to cope in a
marriage, and figuring out what I was going to do when I grew up.”

My father was lucky. In his...Senior year was not a time of job interviews or applying to graduate school; instead,
he would be called to serve in the Vietnam War. There was a delay before actual training began. Government organization
being such that it is, his initial application and accompanying paperwork were temporarily lost. Weeks went by with no word,
and the deadline crept closer and closer. “I had no idea what was going on, but I did know that
if I was not accepted into Officer Training School, I was, in all likelihood, going to be sent to Vietnam.
Having lost several friends to the war effort, I had no desire to go and fight for my life in
a foreign country of death and terror. Who did?”

Eventually, after several letters to his congressman, his application was finally reviewed. He was accepted into OTS and stationed in
Great Falls, Montana. “Because of the draft, I spent almost five years in the service.” Due to his military field
code, there was no chance of going to Vietnam. Many of his close friends did go; some never came back,
and some returned with the memories of actual combat forever sketched in their memory.

The Gulf War seems far removed from our isolated, idyllic Davidson world, but the possibility of another draft is always
a remote possibility that possibly weighs heavily on many eligible draftees. So, while we are debating whether or not we
should take a summer and leisurely “see the world” before we start our careers or begin graduate school, remember our
fathers were most likely trying to cope with whether or not they were going to live. We, too, are lucky.

By Marlo Cobb

Walking can be an all-around good form of exercise. With minimal stress on bones and joints, it strengthens your back,
legs, hips, and lower abdomen. Pumping your arms as you walk will also work the arms, shoulders, sides, back, and
chest. Of course, because of speed differences, walking burns fewer calories per minute, and it is harder to bring your
heart rate up than while running. For a 150 lb person, for example, walking at a normal pace will burn
around 5.5 calories per minute, while running (9m/hr) burns 13. However, if you pick up the pace, the differences between
walking and running as a form of exercise are minimized. Speed up your heartbeat by walking fast, pumping your arms,
and walking uphill. There’s really no “best form” as far as using “speedwalking” for exercise is concerned, but remember to
step heel-toe, and not to make your movements too exaggerated.

Just like running shoes, walking shoes need to be padded on the bottom and have good arch supports. No Keds.
Also, remember that your feet may swell up to a full size larger than normal after walking for a while,
so make sure your shoes allow for that. Contrary to popular belief, weights should never be used while walking or
while doing any other form of aerobic activity. Hand and ankle weights can be good added resistance during floor exercises
or stationary squats, but it is extremely impractical to use weights while walking, running, or doing aerobics. Weights throw you
off balance, making you more prone to injuries. The most convincing anti-weight argument is that during aerobic exercise, in order
to burn a significant number of extra calories through weights, you need to be using weights equal to 20% of
your total body weight. I don’t think you’ll be seeing me walking around with 23 lbs of weights on my
ankles anytime soon.

I was specifically asked to do this article on “powerwalking”; other suggestions are welcome. Would someone please send this to
Heath Hardage, Powerwalker Supreme, whom I know from personal experience has been getting stares from uninformed Europeans as she attempts
to exercise. Don’t worry, Heath; we know about the aerobic benefits, so it doesn’t look quite as strange to us
as it does to them!

Weird fact for the week: It’s untrue that all the alcohol evaporates from cooked food; in recent USDA tests, sometimes
up to 85% of the alcohol remained after cooking.
