8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991

Are You Shattered?

Jackie, SHABRAUSKI, Farewell

Davidson has this year suffered a loss more terrible than words can describe. Cosmetic refinements such as improved lighting, Baker
Sports Complexes, and new police-dude uniforms fail to hide the bitter emptiness that pervades our tree-lined avenues and red brick
structures. Indeed, blessed are the men and women of the class of 1991, who will be painfully aware of this
loss for only their final semester. But for those few readers who know not of the deprivation I lament, let
me explain.

Since my first year at Davidson, the reeling athletic program here has had but one solid pillar on which to
lean for support. It’s not some crusty old trustee, nor is it even a charismatic leader among students and avid
sports fans like myself. No, friends, this one foundation has been a mysterious figure in Davidson lore, known to many
as “the shattered dude,” but lovingly remembered by some of us as the Last American Sweatjammer - Jackie.

Who among us has not heard The Lingo, that beautiful exchange of mutual concern and universal harmony? Who has not
been exposed to the joys of real down-home North Carolina sweatjamming? Only the terribly unfortunate who have failed to cross
paths with Him.

I can remember my first encounter with Jackie as though it were only yesterday. It was at a soccer game
in the fall of my freshperson year, in the second half; three minutes and forty seconds left, with the Wildcats
winning one to nothing. I was wearing my new Mickey Mouse boxers with some old Duckheads, and had my well-worn
T-shirt wrapped around my head. From out of nowhere he appeared, and inquired of me:

“Are You Shattered?”

Huh, dude?

“Do You Know The Lingo?”

Uh, sure dude. Whatever. GO CATS!!!

“Are You Shattered, Then?”

Yeah, sure.

“NO! You’re Supposed To Say SHADOOBEE.”

What?

“If You’re Shattered, Then You Say SHADOOBIE.”

Heh Heh. Okay buddy, you first.

“Are You Shattered?”

Shadoobie.

“KAYOBEE!”

What the hell...?

“That Means That I’m Shattered Too.”

Ooohhhhhh.

“Now You Say: SH-”

“I’m Going To Do Some Sweatjamming Now.”

Okay dude. Later.

How young and foolish I was then. How little I knew. But fate led me to meet Jackie again and
again. Eventually, I could speak The Lingo like a native, learned how to Sweatjam, and had seen Jackie’s book about
the guy that made a guitar out of a Mate’s Chair. I was blessed.

But sadly enough, the coming generations of Davidson students won’t have Jackie to light their paths for them. Jackie has
moved away. Some rumors say he’s gone to Oregon; others, to Maine. Wherever he is, I know he’s spreading his
message of hope to some liberal arts students there, creating a small bastion of sanity in this crazy world.

Oh, Jackie, what a great life it would be if Iraqis and Americans, Armenians and Turks, Palestinians and Jews, and
even Queens Women and Davidson Women could gather together at a soccer game, crank up their Walkmans, and all shout
in glorious harmony, “SHABRAUSKI!!!”

Doesn't Support Continued From Page 5

this: that no peace without the consent of the governed will last. For part of the blame for the rise
of fascism in Germany should go to the injustices imposed by the Allies in the Treaty of Versailles. After parcelling
off its territories and insisting that it demilitarize, the Allies required Germany to pay exorbitant reparations. Partly as a result
of these harsh terms, German resentment against the rest of Europe grew, and Hitler’s power fed on that resentment with
terrible repercussions for Europe.

That same Treaty of Versailles holds much of the blame for the mess on our hands today. In order to
secure assistance against the Ottoman Empire, European leaders offered certain things to an Arab army which eventually captured an area
stretching north from Aqaba almost as far as Turkey and going inland from the Mediterranean to Damascus. They had promised
complete Arab independence in the captured area and government by consent in other regions once ruled by the Ottoman Empire,
and yet the peacemakers ignored their promises and parcelled the land between the two imperial powers, Britain and France. Thus
a new round of western meddling in the Arab world began. Outraged, the dispossessed army began to raid British and
French establishments; in Iraq, Britain retaliated by burning villages, and when a popular Arab leader arose in Iraq, the British
abducted him and sent him to Ceylon. Together the French and British established friendly...governments in their territories and bought off
the rest of the region’s rulers. In the end, the Arab world had once more lost its sovereignty and yet
the world once more ignored it. So if George Bush wants to learn a lesson from 1939 let him realize
this: in Germany the treaty of Versailles helped spawn a dictator who threatened all of Europe; in the Mid-East the
same treaty has helped spawn more than one dictator as well as a smoldering resentment the strength of which has
in the past and will in the future threaten the stability for which our soldiers are fighting. This, then, is
the main reason I oppose our war with Iraq: I doubt that we can ever hope to create a lasting
peace while we maintain an alien status quo. Because of this I must advocate a peaceful solution to this conflict
rather than the violent one we have embarked upon. For our attempt to impose one more new order from without
can only foster more resentment, spawn more violence, and eventually render futile the sacrifice of so many Americans who have
been led to believe that their efforts will create a lasting peace in the Middle East. Yes, I think the
war should end as soon as possible, and I certainly hope for the troops’ sake we end it quickly. Nevertheless,
I and many other protesters also feel that even a quick victory will only prolong a far deeper conflict.

Doug Gibson is a senior English major from Greensboro, NC who spends his days in Medieval literature and his nights
on the couch.

New World Continued From Page 5

United States used its security council veto 36 times; the Soviet Union, by contrast, used its veto only twice. In
1986, the International Court of Justice found the United States guilty of aggression, state terrorism, and other violations of international
law in its actions toward Nicaragua; the U.S. responded by refusing to uphold the Court’s decisions for the next two
years. In recent years the U.S. has continued to oppose a number of nearly unanimous votes in the U.N.: for
example, in November of 1989, the United States vetoed a 14-1 Security council resolution condemning Israel for brutally suppressing resistance
in the Occupied Territories in Palestine. In December of the same year, the U.S. and Israel were the only two
countries that opposed the General Assembly’s vote to condemn the U.S. embargo of Nicaragua.

This does not mean that I think the United States is an evil country, or that we are wrong to
oppose Hussein. It does mean that the United States, while quick to condemn others’ wrongdoing, is often itself guilty of
supporting violence and injustice. In this particular situation, the international community stands behind us. But when our own interests conflict
with world opinion, we are perfectly willing to defy it. When we ourselves do not possess the maturity to respond
to unanimous world opinion, how can we expect other countries to do the same?

So what should we do? I am not saying we should avoid world politics altogether, or that we should let
actions like Hussein’s go unpunished. I am saying that we should intervene in world affairs only to the extent that
intervention will be effective. President Bush believes that intervention in Iraq will lead to a New World Order of peace
and prosperity, and that these spectacular results justify a huge loss of dollars and lives. Yet it seems unlikely that
the war will accomplish any of this. Would it not have been better simply to let sanctions continue to work?
Bush has decided to go to war, and it looks like he will not stop the war now that it
has started. I doubt that the war will, in the end, lead to any lasting peace or stability in the
region. But our failure may lead us to reassess our policy in the Middle East and elsewhere. When the next
crisis comes, we may be more willing to address the true issues of conflict, and less willing to establish an
artificial order through force. When the United States begins to pursue real and equitable solutions to world conflict - then,
and only then, can a true New World Order be established.

Chris Einolf is a senior religion major from Richmond, Virginia.
