THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991 5

The Era of Neo-Apartheid?

Four days before I left Charlotte on a four-week study tour of South Africa, parliament passed a law abolishing the last pillar of apartheid. It overthrew the “Peoples Registration Act,” which required all citizens to be registered at birth according to race.

The outside world hailed the collapse of apartheid and the United States lifted economic sanctions. South Africa became once again a citizen in good standing among governments of the world.

However, during my four weeks of observing the legal system in Johannesburg and my travels across the country, I realized the South African government has managed to pull the proverbial wool over the eyes of an entire planet. Ironically, the South African government removed apartheid to continue its antagonistic role in the struggle for black emancipation and enfranchisement. In day-to-day life, nothing has changed for black South Africans. Poverty, illiteracy, malnutrition, homelessness, and white economic dominance will continue to remain solidly in place.

In striking apartheid, the South African government minimized its losses as the system reached a point of diminishing returns. Sanctions, multi-lateral pressure from black liberation groups, and divisiveness in President de Klerk's Nationalist Party conspired to end apartheid. Failing to discontinue the system would have produced one of two scenarios for the South African government: a slow and painful death that included unending international economic sanctions or a quick coup. The repeal, however, has given the government license to call for negotiations. These negotiations are heinous because freedom is non-negotiable.

To further weaken the black freedom movement, the government allocated about two million dollars for anti-African National Congress activities by the Inkatha Freedom Party, another black political party. This appears to have been an effort not only to weaken ANC support but also to create divisiveness amongst black leaders and liberation groups. Nelson Mandela, the newly elected President of the ANC, has spoken of such abuses for years. There are also allegations that the South African Defense Forces (SADF) have been used to intimidate political organizations and leaders by killing off their constituencies. Is the international community unaware of these abuses, or does the international community not care? When President de Klerk struck apartheid from the laws of the land, only the skin of the system was removed. The flesh and bones of apartheid remain because the government denies blacks voting rights and minimizes their economic power. Given that these are still the realities of South Africa, what has changed for its black citizens?

Black South Africans lamented the removal of United States sanctions because sanctions gave them leverage in fighting for their political and economic rights. By lifting sanctions before voting rights were bestowed on all citizens, the United States and other nations have legitimized an illegitimate government.

There is no doubt that black citizens will eventually be South Africa’s majority voters. One hopes that a new South Africa will not include oppression of whites. However, black oppression is certain without black voting rights, fair and equitable redistribution of land, and equal educational opportunities. The good news is that it is not too late to re-impose sanctions.

Anthony Foxx is a Junior History major from Charlotte.

Jay Ferguson is a Senior Economics major from Charlotte.

The two will collaborate for The Davidsonian this year on several articles.

In recent years controversy has arisen concerning the issue of rush in the first few weeks of school. This year, once again, complaints are being heard. In response to this rumble of discontent, The Davidsonian asked 5 randomly selected students to voice their opinions on this issue. The following are their responses to the question:

“Do you think limits should be imposed on rush activities in the first few weeks of school?”

Yes, they are new to their environment; they need time to get used to it; they’re scared. I’m a resident advisor, and I was on duty the first day of school and I saw a kind of a rush party going on in Belk with a common container of alcohol. This kind of gives freshmen an accelerated start; something they’re not used to.

Girish Gyalani, ‘92

Yes. College is, in itself, a huge transition from life in high school. With it comes a great deal of work and responsibility and freshmen should have the opportunity to experience it first without the influence of fraternities and the activities that surround them.

Phiderika Foust, ‘94

Yes, because freshmen need to have a chance to get to know one another without upperclass and fraternity involvement. Fraternities have plenty of opportunities to rush later in the term.

Max Hendrix, ‘92

Yes. Students need some time to become acquainted with Davidson and to concentrate on their studies. Rush activities ought to be postponed until students are familiar with Davidson.

Christopher Edwards, ‘95

Yes. It’s hard enough adjusting to Davidson without getting involved in Rush right away.

Hillary Bridgers, ‘92