THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

YELLOW SPRINGS, Ohio (CPS) -- Two dozen Antioch University students won longer library hours and an increase in study space after taking over the campus library on Nov. 20 in a peaceful sit-in. The Administrative Council decided that the library will remain open until 2 a.m. for the remainder of the fall term, rather than close at midnight. The library will continue to close at midnight on Friday and Saturday nights. The college also agreed to student demands to make “The Gathering Space,” a commons area in the dorm, a substance-free study space.

Bulletin Clock Reset To 17 Minutes To Midnight

CHICAGO (CPS) -- The minutes hand of the “Doomsday Clock” was set at 17 minutes to midnight in the December issue of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, the farthest back it has been in its 46-year history. The clock, which first appeared in the magazine in 1947, symbolizes the trend toward or away from nuclear annihilation. It has been reset 14 times. In 1953, after the U.S. successfully tested a hydrogen bomb, the hands were set at two minutes to midnight. The staff of the Bulletin, which was founded by scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project, decides the clock’s setting. The Bulletin’s scientific sponsors, many of whom are Nobel laureates, also contribute to the decision.

Philadelphia Collegiate Press Association Formed, Citing Censorship

PHILADELPHIA (CPS) -- Four student newspapers have formed the Philadelphia Collegiate Press Association to battle censorship, threatened reductions in funding, and changes in editorial staffs. “We felt as a group we could protect ourselves,” said Bill Cunnane, editor of the Philadelphia Community College paper, The Vanguard, and president of the coalition of four college newspapers. Three other papers are committed but have been unable to attend meetings. The controversy that spurred the formation was a reaction to a political cartoon of Clarence Thomas published by Temple University’s student newspaper, The Temple News. The cartoon, which showed Thomas exploiting racial stereotypes during congressional hearings, caused such an outcry that Temple News editor-in-chief Erin Fryer said administrators threatened the newspaper’s funding and editorial independence.

Croatia Continued from page 1

Klenovic keeps up with his family by telephone and by fax, and he said that although they are safe so far, they are very frightened. He is also able to see hourly updates on the war through the Davidson computer system, which links up to international networks. Both Yugoslav sides post news and appeals on the computer bulletin boards, so he is able to receive much more thorough and quicker updates through the center than through the American media. After spending all of last year as an exchange student in Charlotte, where he attended Garringer High School and Charlotte Country Day School, Klenovic enrolled this year as a freshman at Davidson. He is one of four Yugoslavian students at Davidson, but the others are from Serbia and Slovenia. His call for a vigil came from a plea by Yugoslavian students at Yale for demonstrations across the country. Speakers at the vigil included himself and Dr. Jack Perry, director of Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program in International Studies.

Martin Continued from page 1

Throughout these past seven years, Martin placed emphasis on economic growth, on creating new jobs, on raising the level of education, and on improving the highway system. He also spent time trying to correct the overcrowding of prisons, trying to eliminate illegal drugs, and trying to heighten drunken driving and alcohol abuse awareness. Martin recently announced that he is retiring from his political career when his second term as governor ends in 1993. According to Charles M. Shelton of Charlotte, the campaign chairman, The James G. Martin Fund will honor its namesake’s “legacy of a common sense, responsible approach to the challenges of government.” Interestingly enough, this is not the first occasion in which Davidson has chosen to honor the Martin family. Governor Martin and his three brothers, also Davidson alumni, established The Arthur and Mary Martin Scholars Program in 1983 in honor of their parents. The program offers merit scholarships to those students interested in choosing the ordained Christian ministry as their life’s work.

Students Disciplined After Being Caught With Their Pants Down

By Walter Price

In October, several Davidson students were involved in an incident at a “haunted hayride” in Mooresville that has led to disciplinary action by the Dean of Students Office. According to Dean of Students, Will Terry, members of the Kappa Alpha Order and freshmen had gone to Carrigan’s Farm in Mooresville for a haunted hayride, recruited by the owner to scare hayride participants. “This year a group of students have participated in some irresponsible and inappropriate behavior and Davidson has been tarred with the brush,” Terry said. Prompted by complaints...of a group of hayride participants from a church in Matthews, the Dean of Students’ Office interviewed the participants in the hayride. Disciplinary action was taken against ten students, one junior and nine freshmen. According to Terry, the students have to work twenty hours of community service as well as have social probation until February 5. Responding to some claims that the imposed sanctions were unduly harsh, Terry said, “I understand the reason they think it is, however, my concern is the damaged reputation of the college.” According to the president of the Kappa Alpha fraternity, Carter Payne, two letters of apology have been sent by the house to the church as well as an offer by the fraternity to participate in any service project the church deemed appropriate. “I know that those individuals who were responsible sincerely regret their actions, and I commend them for their honesty in coming forward,” Payne said.

Student Health Center Moving Across From Smith House
By Casey Otis

The student health center, currently located across from the Union on Concord Road, will be moving to the Potts’ house at 514 N. Main Street. If the new facility is completed on schedule, it will be ready by the end of January. The new health center will be approximately three times larger than the existing facility. The Potts’ house has been renovated and expanded in the rear. The larger area facility will allow both physical and mental health services to be based in the Potts' house. Both the infirmary and the mental health counseling center will each occupy a separate wing in the new health center. The infirmary wing will serve the students with two examining rooms, a laboratory, treatment room, four private patient rooms, and a room for overflow day patients. The counseling wing will contain offices for Davidson’s three counselors, a small health library, and a conference room. Privacy has been a major consideration in the renovations. In all, eighteen people will be on the staff in the new facility. The new center will better serve students by being closer to the residence halls and by having an access ramp for the handicapped, a feature that the Preyer infirmary did not have.

Tension Continued from page 1

general” in its effort to work against this “intolerant spirit.” Following Kuykendall’s remarks, the faculty rapidly passed their resolution. The resolution supports the efforts of the Dean of Students’ Office and “other groups, including members of the student body, faculty and administration, that have been active in dealing responsibly with these issues.” Dean of Students Will Terry listed several incidents which contributed to campus tension. First, at “Lunar Luau” a group of black students claimed to have been the victims of a water balloon attack by the SAE fraternity. While it is unclear whether the balloons were purposely aimed, the incident nearly resulted in a fight. Next, sexist fliers advertising Patterson Court parties and sexist acts at Phi Delta Theta’s annual “Air Band” party offended many members of the community. Then, distasteful fliers protesting the new campus chapter of F.L.A.G. were anonymously placed in Chambers building. Dean Terry said, “Patterson Court houses have a special burden” in this problem and stressed the need for houses to develop “sensitivity” to these issues. He said that there have been other incidents at Patterson Court parties which have also contributed to campus tension. Dean Terry said that the images which houses develop are unhealthy because they often result in conflict in social situations. “The real tragedy is that Davidson College is now riding a crest of excellence,” Dean Terry said, “but a small minority could screw up a great future for the rest of us.” He said the tension on campus has resulted partly because of deep-seated problems that are “fundamental to Davidson, but American society as well.” Dean Terry said, “We need to spend a lot of time and thought on learning how to live together in this community with an increasing amount of diversity and with a high degree of civility.” In an open letter to the Davidson students, Dean Terry stressed the need for understanding and criticized the recent “mean-spiritedness.” He said, “It has become very clear to me that the level of civility of the community has seriously declined.” Furthermore, he said, “Every person deserves to be treated with dignity even if one disagrees with him or her.”

Shops on The Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.
Beginning Dec. 1, Selected Merchandise Discounts Vary and the Sale Items will
DAVIDSON STUDENTS - CALL OR STOP BY
One Special Christmas Hours: Mon.-Fri. 10-8, Sat. 10-6, Sun. 1-5
Camping Equipment & Clothing