14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

Second Baseman Mike Liebdzinski fires to 1st base. Photo courtesy of Sports Information.

Basketball Inks Two Recruits For '91
By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson Wildcats added a bit more youth today to a roster littered with underclassmen when they signed a pair of high school seniors to national letters of intent. George Spain, a 6’8", 200-pound forward, was a four-year letterman at Spring Valley High School in Columbia, S.C. Frank Harris, a 6’3", 165-pound guard, was a three-year starter at Riverdale High School and hails from Middletown, N.Y.

During his senior campaign, Spain averaged 12 points, 9 rebounds, and 4 blocks a game while shooting the ball from the field at a 68% clip. Davidson’s academics were the difference for him; he chose the Wildcats over Maryland, Richmond, Furman, and Drake. “A number of things impressed me about Davidson on my visit,” explained Spain, “including the size of the school, the location, the coaching staff, and the players I met. I felt very comfortable on campus, but the main difference between Davidson and the other schools I was interested in was the academics. Davidson was much stronger in that regard.”

Harris scored 29 points per game during his senior season at Riverdale; his statistics and his fine performance in the classroom attracted the attention of several Ivy League schools. In the end, Harris chose Davidson over Harvard, Yale, Penn, and Dartmouth, citing Davidson’s atmosphere as the deciding factor. “When I started looking at schools, I was thinking strictly Ivy League,” Harris said. “I really hadn’t thought about Davidson that much. But when I visited the campus and met the people I fell in love with it. There was no turning back.”

Davidson coach Bob McKillop was obviously pleased with the additions to his team. “We’re extremely happy that both of these young men have chosen to attend Davidson and be a part of our basketball program,” said McKillop. “We are confident that they will become a very integral part of all that Davidson has to offer academically as well as athletically. I believe that Frank and George will both make significant contributions in their freshman seasons and complement our current players to give us a legitimate shot at challenging for the Big South Conference championship.”

Track
Continued from Page 10

Other notable performances were by Katie Reynolds, who ran negative splits in the 800m to finish at 2:30.3. In the 400m hurdles, the wet conditions hampered Heather Tarpley (68.2) and Jennifer Humphrey (75.1). Despite the wet conditions, the women continued to embellish their finest season ever with more records and fine performances. Come out and support the women as they host the Southern Invitational this coming Saturday against Big South Competition.

Football
Continued from Page 10

great football program. He reports that the team’s long-term goal is to record an undefeated season. With the rapid development of the program and a promising recruiting class waiting in the wings, that goal is becoming more and more plausible by the minute.

‘Cats Top UNC-G
By Alan Rosselot

In a week highlighted primarily by rain, Davidson’s baseball team began an extended stretch of road games with a win before being washed out this weekend. Davidson (16-22, 8-8 in the Big South) started the week on a positive note by topping UNC-Greensboro, 4-3. Dave Williams notched his seventh victory of the year and Brad Wanzenberg picked up his 20th career save. Williams gave up three runs in the first inning before settling down. Wanzenberg came on in relief in the ninth inning.to seal the victory for his second save of the year. The Wildcats scored two runs in the eighth inning for the comeback victory. Third baseman Steve Livesey doubled home shortstop Rick Bender for the winning run. Both Livesey and Bender were 2 for 4 on the day. Ralph Isernia started the Davidson rally when he was hit by a pitch. Bender came next, singling and moving Isernia to third. Joe Azzolino tied the game at three with a sacrifice fly that scored Isernia. Livesey then provided the winning hit.

The ‘Cats did not fare as well in their next outing, as they fell to Appalachian State, 9-4. Davidson starting pitcher Jim Stanfill gave up five runs in just one and a third innings of work. Andy Paul came on in relief of Stanfill and provided another strong outing. After getting the ‘Cats out of a jam in the second inning, Paul proceeded to retire nine straight batters. Paul’s strong effort allowed the Cats to hang in the game, as they pulled to within 5-4 in the fifth inning. They could get no closer, however, and the Mountaineers added two more runs in the seventh to take the victory.

The series of road games was slated to continue this weekend, when they traveled to Radford for the last conference series of the year. Scheduled for three games, the series was cut short when Saturday’s doubleheader was rained out. The Wildcats play one more road game, at Duke, before they return to action at Wildcat Park next weekend against UNC-Greensboro. A few days off should help the Cats as they prepare to meet the Blue Devils on Friday.

Senior Isernia, now approaching the close of his brilliant career as a Wildcat, stands to break a number of Davidson records. He ranks:
Career Hits: 181 (2nd)
Career At-Bats: 595 (2nd)
Career Doubles: 33 (5th)
Career Triples: 8 (T1st)
Career Runs: 130 (T4th)
Career SB: 29 (6th)
Career Walks: 95 (6th)
Career HBP: 9 (1st)

Senior Williams, 7-3 this season, is the fifth winningest pitcher in school history with 16. He ranks fifth in strikeouts with 135. Junior Wanzenberg’s save against UNC-G was the 20th of his career, ten more than any pitcher in Wildcat history.

IMACtion by Jonny Marr
Volleyball
Jumping Cacti pierced Spiked Punch, 15-8, 15-17, 15-5. Long Legged Ladies nipped Wild Women, 15-9, 15-11. Flat Footed No Spikes rustled the Herd, 15-6, 15-1. Misanthropes bested Nubian Princesses, 15-3, 15-7. We’ll Get Up edged John Mack and Son, 10-15, 15-11, 16-14. Fiji spiked Git Buck, 15-9, 15-7. The Beavers slapped IVCF, 15-7, 15-13. Tallywhackers crushed Box Spikers, 15-2, 15-10. Misanthropes captured Wild Women, 15-10, 15-10. Spiked Punch hammered Long Legged Ladies, 15-7, 15-6. Box Spikers conquered Git Buck, 15-9, 15-13. Flat Footed No Spikes overthrew Nubian Princesses, 15-6, 15-1. John Mack and Son won by forfeit over IVCF. Tallywhackers pelted the Beavers, 15-13, 15-9.

In Volleyball Tournament action: We’ll Get Up, Tallywhackers, John Mack and Son, and the Misanthropes remain undefeated in the winner’s bracket final four. Spiked Punch, Flat Footed No Spike, Git Buck, and Box Spikers (all with one loss) remain in the loser’s bracket, each one loss from elimination. Get Up soared past Fiji, 15-7, 15-1.

Recycle Davidsonian!

“INTERNSHIPS
LONDON
PARIS
WASHINGTON SEMESTER
ACADEMIC YEAR
GRENOBLE
HAIFA
MADRID
NIGER
OXFORD
PADUA

SUMMER PROGRAMS
CORTONA
CYPRUS
LONDON
MADRID
MONACO
PADUA
PARIS
USSR
EUROPE

For program details complete the coupon below and mail it to:
BOSTON UNIVERSITY
Boston University International Programs
232 Bay State Road
Boston, MA 02215
(617) 353-9888