THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON, Editor-in-Chief
LEIGH McKEEVER, Executive Editor
WALTER PRICE, Executive Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND, News Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
JOHN PATTON, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

What About The Paper?

With a long drive ahead and well bored with the tapes in my car, I scanned the radio stations for
something worth hearing last Thursday morning. However tempted by the ever biting wit of 99.7’s John “Gee, I promise I
won’t sell drugs anymore” Boy and Billy, I chose public radio instead. I thought a little Ludwig V.B. or the
like would make the trip a little more pleasant than the mind-numbing Johnny-Rebel music for thirteen-year-old skate rats offered on
the other stations. Anyway, I wound up listening to a lecture by Ms. Catherine Flanagan, former editor and publisher of
The Anchorage Daily News. The lecture was captivating and enlightening, and I'd like to relay a few of her comments.

The paper is there, as Flanagan pointed out, to provide a permanent record of information so that its readers may
engage in logical analysis of that which is presented. A newspaper usually acts as a forum for public comment on
various issues affecting the community. In other words, the newspaper is, more than any other, the medium which truly belongs
to the people.

Every newspaper must strive to interact positively with the community. That means that the paper should take part in significant
events, providing the community with thorough and fair coverage. In return, the community must help the paper stay on top
of all that goes on by offering constructive advice and criticism, writing to the editors when they are displeased, and
even suggesting story ideas and offering news tips.

Communication with the government of the community is also essential to the production of a quality newspaper. Whether or not
the editors of the paper agree with the positions taken by the community administration is irrelevant. What's important is that
the two institutions communicate freely and attempt to work for the betterment of the community as a whole.

This past weekend, the Student Government Association, in association with the Admissions Office, hosted the SGA Weekend for prospective students.
During the course of the weekend, the visitors heard several people speak about activities on the campus. Representatives from the
SGA, the Union, and Patterson Court, and other groups spoke to the prospectives about the nature of their organizations in
order to give their audience a chance to see what life is like at Davidson. Strangely enough, The Davidsonian was
not included in this activities promotion session. I've been told by former SGA vice president Kristi Kessler that one of
the members of the committee called and left a message about the event. Be that as it may, no one
on the editorial board ever got the message, and no one from the SGA Weekend planning committees followed up on
finding someone to represent The Davidsonian. By not making deliberately sure that someone from the paper, or any of the
other student publications (Hobart Park, and Quips and Cranks) for that matter, was present, the people in charge of SGA
Weekend suggest that student publication is unimportant to this school.

The editorial this week was going to be about student apathy about this publication. The students themselves aren't the problem.
The problem is in the fact that the college's leaders don't do anything to encourage enthusiasm about the paper.

d.a.t.

Extra Editor's Note: Special thanks to Oma Blaise and David Smyth for their help with this issue.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Offices are
on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do
not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available
on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.College.

LETTERS

Garner Defends Eleventh Hour

To the Editor:

I recently learned that the Registrar’s Office made an “administrative decision” to change the daily schedule next year. Due to
lack of classroom space, lack of interest in early classes, and afternoon scheduling problems, the Registrar is starting the academic
day at 8:30 and ending it at 4:00 on Tuesday and Thursday. This schedule squeezes out the Tuesday and Thursday
Eleventh Hours.

For the past year, I have served as co-chair of the Campus Forum Committee and have programmed the Thursday Eleventh
Hour. When the college switched from terms to semesters, the Administration created the “free hour” to foster a sense of
community. This year’s programs have included such events as a reception for new faculty, a reading by African-American poet Sonya
Sanchez, an informal talk with director Charles Newell, and a community Christmas bazaar. By incorporating the arts, international affairs, campus
issues, and seasonal celebrations into its schedule, the hour draws a diverse crowd. The combined attendance of students, professors, staff,
“townies,” and even children has averaged 75 persons and has varied from 35-135.

Despite my intimate connection with the program, I only learned of its demise at the eleventh hour, in other words,
after it was a fait accompli. Although the Registrar’s Office solicited opinions from the faculty, it did not consult the
students who plan the events and the community that attends them. Given the mission of the Eleventh Hour, I think
this method of non-consultation is inappropriate. The community hour should have been subject to community evaluation before it was axed.

Sincerely,
MELISSA GARNER
March 9, 1991

Troug Counters Venice Review

To the Editor:

Actors’ performances are rarely absolute, and therefore, reviewers’ words should neither praise nor malign absolutely. The distinction between a reviewer
and a critic is one which Kate Dunlop should heed. A reviewer can say, “I left after the first act.”
A critic cannot. Whether you consider yourself a critic or not is academic, the article is entitled a “Theatre Review.”
However, I found your generalizing praise and criticism to be inadequate and at times ignorant due to your misunderstanding of
the characters, their roles, and their relationships.

You might think me too semantic in my criticism, but your article is riddled with factual errors which get in
the way of any ideas you try to communicate. The Merchant of Venice (it should be underlined or italicized) is
not “Shakespearean,” it was written by Shakespeare. This is a play in which the final scene is positive; it is
not a fairy tale, and everyone does not live “happily ever after.” Anything good which happens in this play results
in another character’s pain. Shylock suffers throughout the performance.

Your characterizations of the suitors who decide to choose a casket are less than impressive. Mike Brooks was simply not
a “Rap King,” and Frank Jernigan was neither anal-retentive nor a Frenchman. The Prince of Arragon was a hilarious anal-excessive
Spaniard. Big words in quotation marks do not make an article effective when they are used incorrectly. A cursory perusal
of the text would help to alleviate these mistakes.

Your review of the actors’ performances was not motivated by any understanding of the text. You can tell me the
story, but you are unable to tell me about the characters. The chemistry which occurs between two characters, for example,
is manifest in many ways. The chemistry between Jessica (Allison Wright) and Lorenzo (Michael Crowley) is at an advanced, sexual
level; she is pregnant. The chemistry between Bassanio (Bryan Kirtley) and Portia (Keely Schneider) is of a more restrained nature.
The two have only just met. While they love each other, all of their scenes take place with the rest
of the cast on stage. That is not exactly the time to be clawing at each other. To understand the
historical background, and therefore the cultural requirements of Elizabethan England, is to understand the varieties of chemistry present within The
Merchant of Venice.

By generalizing your praise of an actor’s performance you belittle it. For by praising one good performance as you would
praise any other is to say nothing particularly unique. No one’s performance was flawless. In Keely Schneider’s own words, “There
is always room for improvement.” Bryan Kirtley is an actor who is fun to watch; his attention to detail belies
his wealth of experience.

To say that...

See "Troug” on page 7.
