MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991 Sports 13

Davidson Falls In Big South Semis, Finishes 10-19
By Bruce Balestier

Coastal Carolina 58 Davidson 55 (Semifinals Big South Tournament)

It was hard to believe for a while Friday night in Anderson, S.C. Not only had Davidson outplayed Coastal Carolina for the greater part of 40 minutes (taking a 32-24 halftime lead), they had forced a critical turnover with swarming defense and taken possession of the ball down 56-55 with 11.5 seconds left. Coach Bob McKillop called timeout, and diagrammed a play for Janko Narat to take his defender one on one. But when the Chants’ Brian Penny intercepted the inbounds pass intended for Narat, it all went up in smoke. The ‘Cats, forced to foul to stop the clock, fouled Coastal’s Robert Dowdell with 4.5 seconds left; he calmly sank both free throws. Still, the ‘Cats had a chance to tie, down 58-55 with the ball and 4.5 seconds to work with. But the ball was knocked away from Jason Zimmerman as he tried to get a three-pointer off, and Davidson fell to defeat. The ‘Cats 6-13 performance at the free throw line may have cost them the game.

Still, it was an incredible effort. The Wildcats dominated the conference’s number one team in the first half, taking a commanding 32-22 lead with 1:20 to play behind 58% shooting. They were supported by a busload of rowdy fans who were verbally assaulting the Coastal Carolina bench with vulgarity appropriate to the occasion and supporting the ‘Cats with unheard-of vehemence. Their 8-point halftime lead was erased by a speedy Coastal run, but Paul Denmond drilled a three-pointer with 10:55 left and vaulted the ‘Cats back into a 42-39 lead. From there, it went down to the wire. A tough jumper by Pat Holloway and two huge put-backs from Detlef Musch pulled the ‘Cats within 56-55 before the disappointment of the final seconds.

Jason Zimmerman and Detlef Musch, both 2nd-team All-Big South selections, led the Wildcats with 15 points apiece. Musch, who has now clearly loosed all of the critics from his back, shot a perfect 7-7 from the field and thoroughly outplayed the Chanticleers’ DuWayne Cheatham. Pat Holloway added 14 points.

Davidson 63 Winthrop 48 (1st round Big South Tournament)

Davidson’s first visit to tournament play since the 1988 Southern Conference Tournament proved to be a successful one. Detlef Musch’s authoritative 2-handed jam on the ‘Cats’ first possession set the tone for the game, and fine man-to-man defense held the Eagles to 33% shooting from the field as the Wildcats cruised to a 63-48 win and advanced to the semifinals to

It's Big South Again
By Alan Rosselot

Davidson baseball returned to Big South conference play on Saturday against Augusta College with ace Dave Williams on the mound. Unfortunately for the Cats, opposing batters touched Williams for the first time all year as the Jaguars rolled up thirteen runs in an exciting game at Wildcat Park. After falling behind 7-0 after two and a half innings, Davidson rallied to tie the game at 10 in their half of the seventh inning. The Jaguars responded with three runs in the eighth inning off reliever Andy Paul to clinch a 13-10 victory. Paul took the loss to fall to one and three on the year while the team’s record dropped to 6-9 (4-6 in the Big South).

In building up their lead, Augusta knocked Williams for five solo homers, including three in a row in their five-run second inning. Augusta’s seventh, eighth, and ninth batters had all five of the home runs. Rick Bender and Joe Azzolino put the Cats on the board in the third with back-to-back hits. The Cats then rallied for five runs in the sixth and four runs in the seventh to even the game. Again, Azzolino (4-5, 3 RBIs) and Bender (3-4, 3 RBIs) contributed heavily, combining for seven hits and six RBIs on the day.

The Cats’ hopes for revenge were doused as Sunday’s doubleheader was rained out. In previous action, the Wildcats split a pair of non-conference games, topping Belmont Abbey 10-5 and falling to N.C. State 12-6 on Wednesday. Paul picked up his first win of the season by holding Belmont Abbey scoreless for seven innings after giving up five runs in the first two innings. Paul also held the Crusaders hitless in the last five innings. The 20th ranked Wolfpack racked up 17 hits off three Davidson pitchers, handing freshman Tim Sobon (0-1) his first collegiate loss. Davidson hitters managed only four hits, but scrapped for six runs, four of those coming in the second inning.

On the season, Rick Bender leads the team in batting, home runs, and RBIs (.379, 3, 17). Bender is currently in the middle of an eight-game hitting streak. Additionally, four other Wildcat hitters are batting over .300. They are Ralph Isernia (.377), Jay Dalton (.320), Dan Cotton (.308), and Joe Azzolino (.300). Davidson continues conference play as they visit Winthrop for three games this week. The Cats return home next weekend to do battle with James Madison and Lafayette.Meet Coastal Carolina. Four straight points by senior co-captain Darry Strickland, the final two on a fierce diving layup, pushed the 'Cats to a 20-10 lead midway through the first half, and Jeff Chapin’s tip-in with 1:50 left gave Davidson their biggest lead of the half. The Wildcats settled for a 27-18 halftime lead. Five straight points to open the second half by Detlef Musch, now clearly established as an intimidating presence in the lane, gave the 'Cats their biggest lead to date at 34-22, but by the time he picked up his fourth foul and left the game with 16:29 left, the complexion of the game had changed. A 13-4 run brought the Eagles within 38-35 before the Wildcats responded. A jumper and a fast break layup by Pat Holloway were followed by a Zimmerman runner, a Chapin tip-in, a Janko Narat pull-up jumper, and 5 straight from Paul Denmond. All in all, it was a 13-1 tear, and the 'Cats led 51-36 with 8:28 left. Though Winthrop scratched to within 55-48 with 2:52 remaining due to horrendous Davidson foul shooting (12-25 for the game), the 'Cats were never seriously threatened. In a balanced scoring effort, Zimmerman paced the team with 13 points. Narat pitched in with 12 and Musch added 10. A dedicated crowd comprised mainly of Athletic Administration personnel cheered the team to victory at the Civic Center of Anderson, S.C.

Davidson 71 Liberty 67 (OT)

Jason Zimmerman’s 5 straight points and 4 free throws by Paul Denmond in the overtime spurred the 'Cats to victory over the Flames, despite blowing a 16-point first half lead. The matchup with Liberty, an independent, was Davidson’s final regular-season tilt. A 16-foot jumper and a three-pointer by Zimmerman early in the extra session metamorphosed a 60-58 deficit into a 63-60 Davidson lead, and the 'Cats never looked back. Two from the charity stripe by Detlef Musch and a layup by Pat Holloway gave Davidson a 67-62 cushion with just over a minute remaining, and Denmond’s free throws provided the final margin. The Flames fought back from a 36-25 halftime hole to take the lead at 49-47 with 4:08 to play, but a hoop from Zimmerman (13 points) tied it. A three-pointer and a basket by Denmond (14 points) gave the 'Cats leads of 52-51 and 54-53, and a basket by Holloway sent the game into overtime tied at 56. Detlef Musch dominated the middle with 20 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Wildcats.

Photo by Chris Lee

Cheerleaders Spark Wildcat Spirit
By Lee Pennington

Cheerleaders, I thought as I trudged over to Baker Sports Complex this past Monday night. I have to take pictures of cheerleaders. Dim recollections of high school girls hopping around in front of our football team came to me, and I remembered that there are cheerleaders here at Davidson as well. Cheerleaders, I thought while I carded in at Baker. Thirty minutes later, I walked out of Baker thinking Cheerleaders! Wow! High school stereotypes had been crushed. While speaking to the Davidson squad, I had been impressed by their dedication and perseverance. The team, under the direction of Jeanette Scire, has had a tough yet rewarding year, and is anticipating good things to come out of next year’s commitment. “We're looking really good, and that’s due in part to our size,” said junior Tina Smith. “The team is bigger this year. We’ve tried a lot of new stuff that we haven’t done before.”

Scire feels that the team’s potential is just beginning to be tapped. However, she also feels that the student body’s recognition of the squad’s assets has been slight. “No one really sees how much they do and what they accomplish. They were responsible for the spirit contest that we had at the last [basketball] game, and you saw what kind of turnout we had.”

Scire is justifiably proud of her charges. “We do all the dirty work for all the sports,” she said with a smile. “The coaches recognize our support.” Added junior Katherine White, “It’s a lot easier to give support when you're given support back.” Scire plans to capitalize on this needed support next fall. She hopes to see new additions to the squad from the class of 1995 as well as from upperclassmen. The team plans to recruit a number of male cheerleaders to bolster their strength as a performance squad. “We are looking at a larger coed squad, which is one reason we invited the UNCC squad to perform at the last home game,” said Scire. “We’re hoping to grab the attention of more guys.” Scire also wants to organize a dance team to perform at halftime and during timeouts.

Through support from the Wildcat Club, plans are being made for the introduction of new Wildcat mascot costumes, which would be designed by an artist in California. “We’ve received some designs which give the mascots more of a Disney-like appearance,” Scire noted. The entire squad expects next year to be fun as well as challenging. The cheerleaders plan to continue their extensive practices in the hopes of more dynamic routines, while they also plan to keep their job fun. “We don’t try to be too serious,” said freshman Sarah Berry. “You can’t go out there, fall down, and try to act serious about it. It’s just fun!”