THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

By Jerry S. Stockdale

On November 22, I came home to America after three weeks in India with Davidson’s Semester-In-India Program. My trip was
the experience of a lifetime, replete with adventure, learning, laughter, great companionship, and a healthy dose of culture shock. (And,
oh yes, diarrhea, too.) For those who are interested, I will be writing about the program and about my adventures
in the winter issue of the Davidson Journal. But that is not what I wish to write about here and
now. I wish to write about the shock of re-adjusting to life at Davidson.

The interesting thing about my culture shock in India is how uplifting and energizing it ultimately was. In the midst
of the most confusing, frustrating, disorienting moments of all, I felt the power of the experience. I understood it was
necessary to feel hopelessly lost and out of control before I could rebound and start to understand what I had
seen and heard. Another interesting thing about culture shock is the reverse process. Several people “warned” me that my re-entry
into American society might also be confusing and disorienting, although it surely wouldn’t last as long. So I was prepared,
or so I thought. My re-entry was fairly smooth and I didn’t feel strange at all, until it hit me
blindside, from quarters I never expected at all. What I was not prepared for was the shock of dropping back
in on life at Davidson.

The very day I came back, I read two articles about Davidson in The Charlotte Observer. All of you know
the ones I mean -- “Backlash of intolerance sweeps colleges in Carolinas” and “College official slams intolerance.” Sobering, to say
the least. Also sad. The second item to hit me was an emergency phone call early Saturday morning from Ray
Thrower. I had been up half the night and had just gone back to bed, jet lagged to the max.
Ray called to say that someone had gotten drunk and fallen off a ledge at the PiKA House; a helicopter
had been flown in and medics couldn’t get any response at first. There was no word yet from the hospital,
but they were afraid he might be dead or seriously injured. Media calls were coming in and I was needed.
Wham! I was tired and worried and in no mood to deal with this, but this was all part of
our standard protocol in emergency situations. The more I thought about it, I got pissed off. One more case of
drunken stupidity to handle! A selfish reaction to a serious situation, I know, but it’s what I honestly felt. I
wondered if Will Terry or John Kuykendall or others have that kind of reaction, too. After all, they get much
more wrapped up in these problems than I ever do. I got lucky this time. I was able to reach
Bill Giduz, director of news and photography, and he was able to handle the media on the scene. We all
got lucky this time. As you all know, the student wasn’t dead, just dead drunk. He was released and is
presumably okay now. He wasn’t even a Davidson student, but that is irrelevant to the deeper problem.

The third item was another Observer story on Monday morning, the one covering the Sunday evening forum on racial issues.
I was shocked to read of the incident of the anonymous message on the answering machine. Excuse me for being
so naive at age 40, but how could something like this happen at a place like Davidson! As I drove
up to work (from Charlotte) the morning was sunny and beautiful. Inside I was dark and seething. I spent much
of the day telling people about my trip, for everybody was eager to hear all about it, but I couldn’t
shake the depression inside and I also talked about that. I saw Jack Perry on Main Street and he asked
me how I felt. I talked about the dark side of Davidson, not about my trip. Jack, the eternal optimist,
reminded me of what I knew somewhere deep inside but needed to be told -- that this was a problem
involving a small minority of people. Most of Davidson wasn’t like that, in fact, most of Davidson was just as
shocked and saddened by these events as I was. I know Jack is right and I struggle to get things
into perspective, but it is hard. I do feel these are not “simply” isolated incidents, however. I think Davidson has
always had a dark side, and I have seen it before. All you have to do is go back into
Davidson’s history and you will find evidence.

There is much animosity and tension as this year. What is the emotional source of hate speech and hate mail?
Why do people print tasteless and insulting flyers and distribute them secretly under the cover of darkness? Why do people
leave hate messages on other people’s answering machines? Am I setting myself up for the same kind of treatment by
writing this piece? Again, I feel hopelessly naive somehow, but I can’t believe this is happening on such a wide
scale and such a sustained basis. I have seen it in individuals, yes. But I have never seen it so
institutionalized before.

The ritual of drinking till you pass out seems to be glorified and lionized at Davidson more than ever. Some
students appear to lead a life of trashed Tuesdays, wasted Wednesdays, and thirsty Thursdays followed by weekend blowouts that last
through Monday and the cycle starts all over again. Where do academic pursuits and personal enlightenment fit into such a
schedule? Where does good health fit in, both physical and mental? You know, you are only young once, but you
can be immature forever. Say, I have an idea for a theme party. Let’s have a campus-wide “Drink Till We
Die” party. I’m afraid (as are many others) that that is where this is all leading. There have been several
close calls over the last few years -- I know because I am always called to help deal with the
media. It seems to me that if we keep up this pace, sooner or later someone is going to die.
And that person’s death will be both stupid and tragic. Is that what it will take for some sense of
responsibility to creep in?

Don’t get me wrong -- I am not proud to say that (to the best of my understanding) I have
never been bigoted and intolerant of those who are different from me. Therefore, this problem is much harder for me
to understand and ultimately more disturbing to me. I have been employed by the college for ten years and I
have never seen so much animosity and tension as this year. What is the source of all this hate speech
and hate mail? Why do people print tasteless and insulting flyers and distribute them secretly under cover of darkness? Why
do people leave hate messages on other people’s answering machines? Am I setting myself up for the same kind of
treatment by writing this piece? Again, I feel hopelessly naive somehow, but I can’t believe this is happening.At Davidson! Insults
and harassment? Death threats? What the hell is going on here?!? And what about The Davidsonian? In some ways, it
is the best I have seen in my ten years here, for which the editors and staff should be congratulated.
But in other ways, it is mystifying to me. It is filled with columns that are too clever by half
(I admire clever writing, but a little cleverness goes a long way, too) and ad hominem attacks from all quarters.
From week to week, I pick up The Davidsonian not to read the news so much as to read who
is trashing whom, or who is apologizing to whom for having trashed them the week before. There is a kind
of slash-and-burn style of journalism that is fascinating and horrifying to read, like watching a gruesome highway accident.

I am four-square in favor of the establishment of a FLAG chapter at Davidson and I am not afraid that
doing so means that we are "condoning homosexuality," whatever that means. Who are we to condone or condemn? There is
a strain of intolerance of those who are different that probably goes back to Davidson’s founding. There have been incidents
of religious bigotry, racial bigotry, and sexual bigotry before. Campus has been a problem before, even when Davidson was technically
a dry campus and no alcohol was allowed at all. And finally, there is a strong streak of homophobia at
Davidson, even as there have always been homosexuals on campus.

Let me talk first about alcohol. I hope I do not come across as holier-than-thou, for I am not innocent.
I have been drunk before and stupid before, sometimes at the same time and more times than I care to
admit. I was lucky, perhaps, in that I survived my youthful self and my worst excesses. I grew up and
learned the wisdom of moderation and restraint, and I think I am none the worse for my experiences. I came
of age in the sixties and seventies, so I have seen just about everything, and one of my roommates was,
and still is, an alcoholic. He is also still my friend and always will be. But what I have not
seen until recently is an element of desperation, nihilism, and self-destruction that accompany the drinking age of 21. These are
among the most misguided and disastrous laws ever enacted. I also don’t expect students, as a group, to stop drinking,
nor do I think it necessary. And nothing will stop some students from occasionally getting drunk. But a little drunkenness
goes a long way. Why is it necessary to get drunk night after night or week after week? Is it
an oxymoron or irresponsible of me to suggest “drunkenness in moderation” as a start? The college is in an extremely
difficult position, both legally and morally, when it comes to this issue, and won’t be able to “solve” the problem
from the top down. Individual students and student groups are going to have to resolve this problem somehow, and it
had better happen soon or things could get ugly.

Is it simply acceptable in contemporary American society to trash other people viciously when you dislike them or disapprove of
them or disagree with them? And if it is, is that any excuse for the same to happen at Davidson?
We have real issues to talk about at Davidson, but why don’t we just drop all attempts at rational, civil
discourse and just start talking about each others’ mamas?!? I don’t understand the streak of racism that persists or what
motivates the hatred. And I don’t understand the homophobia that persists even more strongly, or perhaps I do a little
bit. I can understand if someone is morally opposed to homosexuality on Biblical or other grounds, as long as they
obey the injunction to “hate the sin and love the sinner.” But I see a lot of evidence of hating
the “sinner,” not to mention fearing the “sinner.” I suppose it is a sign of the times that I feel
compelled to reveal where I stand on this. I am strictly heterosexual. I have never had a homosexual encounter and
I never expect to. I have friends, however, who I know are homosexual and bisexual, and probably more friends who
are but I just don’t know. And I don’t really care. I am four-square in favor of the establishment of
a FLAG chapter at Davidson and I’m not afraid that doing so means that we are “condoning homosexuality,” whatever that
means. Who are we to condone or condemn? Perhaps we are just condoning people for being people, in all their
infinite diversity? Evidence suggests that 10 percent of the population is homosexual, regardless of how or why they are. The
fact remains that they are. It is reasonable to guess that 10 percent (maybe less, who knows?) of Davidson is
homosexual. Are we going to condemn them or support them? Where is our sense of Christian love and charity?

Finally, a brief footnote -- written a week later, after I have come to a better equilibrium. I confess that
I probably overreacted, but I'll blame it on jet lag. I know that what I witnessed does not represent Davidson,
that it was blown out of proportion and that Davidson is no worse, and in fact is far better than
most places I know of. It’s just that my feelings overwhelmed me and I feel I have to stand up
and say something. Thank God, Jack Perry is right to be optimistic and to be proud of a place like
Davidson and (most of) the people who inhabit it. I must add one other thought -- I have never been
entirely comfortable with my job title and at times like these ponder the absurdity of it. I can no more
“direct” college relations than I can jump over the moon. I have no illusions about that. But I came back
to campus after three weeks and saw “college relations” in a mess, and part of me thought, okay, you are
the “director” -- so do something! But I write this not as the director of anything, but as a single
member of this community, a member who cares deeply and who is hurt and angered by some of what he
has seen. I came back from a life-changing trip, having been exposed to some of the best things that Davidson
stands for, and at first all I saw on my return was the dark side of Davidson, the worst that
Davidson also stands for. These are serious issues that need to be confronted and not swept under the rug, and
now is the time to confront them. But, for God’s sake, let us confront them with a measure of respect
and consideration for each other as human beings. You are worth it. We are all worth it.
