14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

Cagers Whip Cherry Point in First Exhibition Test
By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson basketball team began their 1991-92 season in earnest Saturday night with a 100-64 thrashing of the post team
from Cherry Point Marine Air Station. The Wildcats took a 55-33 halftime lead in the exhibition and then coasted to
the win. Sophomore swingman Janko Narat paced the team with 19 points.

After some early hot shooting by Cherry Point, Davidson gradually pulled away, using a defense that denied every pass to
provoke numerous turnovers. A Davidson offense predicated on constant cutting and frequent ball reversal translated into open shots on the
other end. The ‘Cats also benefited from 22 fast break points.

The bulk of the scoring Saturday came from the 3 spot, where the Wildcats received Narat’s 19 points and another
15 from Scott Alford. Alford shot a blistering 7-9 (including 1-1 from 3-point range) on the night. Center Detlef Musch
shot poorly, but scored 13 points, overcoming a minor knee injury.

Club Lacrosse Defeats UNC-G During Only Home Appearance
By Jack Handey

The Davidson Club Lacrosse Team beat the UNC-Greensboro team last Sunday 7-5 to pick up a win in its first
game of the fall. The Wildcats have been practicing all fall under the leadership of player/coach Phil Degnan.

The Wildcats started fast, building up a 6-1 lead at the half. The veteran players led the charge, with attack
Phil Degnan scoring two goals. Senior midfielders Dean Vanderwarker and Robbie Huber also put in goals to stretch the Wildcat
lead.

The story of the game, however, was not the performance of the seniors, but the input of the large number
of newcomers to the team. Freshman attack Smith Maddrey contributed two goals. John Walsh, Brian Parrish, and Brian Bentley all
had good performances in their very first lacrosse games. Degnan emphasized the teaching nature of the club for allowing the
newcomers to make a contribution.

Another outstanding performance was turned in by Cordell Jones, who stepped into the lineup as the goalkeeper with no previous
experience. Degnan was very pleased with Jones’ showing, which allowed Degnan to step out of the goal and into the
offense. Tom Hunter anchored the defense.

Hockey Repeats as Deep South Champs
By Jennifer Roos

On August fifteenth, the hockey team declared its first and foremost goal of the season: another Deep South championship. Almost
three months later, on November third, this goal was accomplished as Davidson won its second consecutive Deep South Championship, defeating
Catawba 3-0 in Salisbury last weekend.

The Wildcats were the number one seed and advanced unscathed through the winner’s bracket of the double elimination tournament. Their
first opponents were the Mountaineers from Appalachian State. The Wildcats pounced on them from the opening whistle. Junior Monique Dockter
scored twenty minutes into the game and Davidson never looked back. Minutes later, Dockter scored her second goal of the
game and was inches away from a hat trick. Senior Mary Russ scored the third goal of the game right
before halftime. ASU struggled throughout the game to maintain any type of momentum on offense.

The Wildcats were held scoreless in the second half yet still outshot ASU. With this victory behind them, Davidson started
to focus on their next opponent, Wake Forest, the defending Deep South runner-up. Davidson had previously beaten Wake in a
sudden death overtime in regular season play. This game would send Wake or Davidson to the loser’s bracket.

Wake Forest opened the game up with a strong offensive surge and the Wildcats were forced to play very defensively.
The Wildcats were assessed a penalty stroke for supposedly pushing a Wake Forest player to the ground.While in the circle,
sophomore Emily Coleman rose to the challenge and with authority stopped Wake cold. This would be Wake Forest’s best scoring
opportunity of the day. This strong defensive play lit a fuse under the Wildcats because they proceeded to take control
of the game. The game was scoreless until the last two minutes when Dockter slammed in a goal, her third
of the tournament, on an assist by freshman Missy Potts. It was a perfect ending for the Wildcats. This victory
propelled Davidson to the finals of the tournament on Sunday, and they would face the winner of the loser’s bracket,
Catawba or Wake Forest. That game was played immediately after Davidson’s game.

Davidson faced Catawba in the finals. Catawba had beaten Davidson on this field earlier in the season by a 1-0
margin, yet Davidson beat the Indians on Homecoming Weekend in the revenge game handily 4-1. That victory ensured the Wildcats
of their number one seed. Davidson's game plan in the finals was to score first and play offensively right from
the start. They did just that. Potts scored the first goal twenty minutes into the first half. All hopes of
Catawba winning Deep South were thwarted. Junior Simone Plaisance, the leading scorer on the team, scored the second goal of
the game. Dockter scored off a corner right before halftime, yet it was called back by a controversial offside call.
A minute into the second half, Russ scored her second goal of the tournament. The score was 3-0 with Davidson
in complete control of the game. Catawba would later have one strong offensive drive, yet the indefatigable defense, which was
not scored upon through the entire tournament, staved off the Indians’ drive.

This victory was especially sweet for the four seniors: Fran Fierro, Lauren Follmer, Beth Pharr, and Mary Russ. Their freshman
year, the hockey program had a record of 6-7-1. Since their freshman year, they have gone 35-13-5 and have earned
two Deep South Championships trophies. They have seen the program grow tremendously and were key contributors to the success of
the hockey program. Their on and off the field leadership and playing abilities will be greatly missed. The five rising
juniors will have a tough task ahead of them in attempting to fill their shoes.

Davidson will complete its fall season with games against club teams from Augusta and Charleston this Saturday and Sunday.

Senior captain Paul Denmond scored just 2 points but doled out 7 assists. Starting guards Pat Holloway and Jason Zimmerman
each had 9 points. Head coach Bob McKillop offered a starting lineup of Zimmerman and Holloway, Musch at center, Narat
at small forward, and Paul Drobnitch at big forward, but the exhibition gave him a chance to try numerous combinations.
In fact, every man on the roster played and scored. Davidson returns to action next Monday (November 18) at Belk
Arena against the Ukrainian National Team. The Wildcats host Alabama in the season opener on November 23.

Introducing Largely Literary T-Shirts
EDGAR ALLAN POE
Opening November 22
Enter Our "Name the Mermaid" Contest
Coming Soon
Also Available: Mozart, Beethoven, T.S. Eliot, Whitman, Thoreau & More

Wall to Wall Screens
Dolby and Smart Stereo Surround Systems
SR Playback Compatible
