Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

Fliers Continued from page 1

said that no action can be taken by the PCC because there are no guidelines for flyer content in the by-laws. She doesn’t expect legislation to be introduced dealing with this topic because it would be difficult for the PCC to regulate all fliers, especially since the PCC concentrates on the alcohol policy. Adams feels that fraternities should use their common sense in creating party flyers, and take into consideration that the party is being co-sponsored by a women’s house. Adams also mentioned that a “slap on the wrist” by the PCC wouldn’t be nearly as effective as the negative publicity and financial loss already resulting from the incident. She said, “We hit them in the purse strings.” However, Adams commented that if she were approached by several people supporting the addition of new legislation in the by-laws dealing with fliers, it would be brought up before the council.

SAE President Powell Spears said, “I’m really sorry that our posters were deemed to be offensive. I think the issue has been blown way out of proportion. I’m not saying that minority rights are not important because they are, especially at Davidson. But for the focus to swing to something that was originally intended as a joke is wrong.” Spears said, “Davidson has a multitude of more pressing problems than posters. I think that it’s a shame that many issues or predicaments are considered primary just because it is considered fashionable to attack them at the time.”

Senior Andrew Schrader, designer of the fliers, commented on the controversy surrounding his creations. He said, “I’m a little bit surprised [at the negative reactions to the posters]. Anyone who saw bad connotations had to be reading into them. They’re the ones with the problem. They’re creating a problem that isn’t there.” Schrader said that he intended “no sexual connotations whatsoever,” and that “no offense should be taken if none is intended.” Before posting the fliers he showed them to several people including “10 to 15 women” who in turn “considered them funny,” he said.

Not all members of SAE support the flyers. Will Caldwell said, “A large number of SAE’s felt the posters were in bad taste. Although I feel that many people overreacted to the posters, we still should be more conscious of other people’s opinions.”

Other reactions by Davidson students were more intense. Jennifer Williams said, “These fliers are not reflective at all of the female student body at Davidson, and SAE, by portraying women in general as such, is portraying women on this campus in the same light.” Annie Kirkland said, “The scariest part of this whole incident is that men are now offended that women are so upset.”

Wells Continued from page 1

Wells presented herself as what Wells called “The Holy Redeemer” who would bring economic recovery and the Chamarro government agreed.

Development aid, for example, Ortega delivered an emotional speech, appealing to the strong sense of nationalism of Nicaraguans, and blaming United States policy for the economic chaos in the country. The rally ended with Ortega pitching baseballs to members of the most popular Nicaraguan baseball team who hit the balls to the crowd. For the finale, Jimmy Cliff flew over from Jamaica to play a mini-concert for the crowd. While Ortega popularized all these fierce symbols for his campaign, President Bush was making public gestures for peace. Wells believes Bush’s gestures forced Ortega to try to soften up his image. In the last days...of his campaign, Ortega emphasized consensus building and held photo opportunities with babies and dolls. Meanwhile, now-president Chamorro joined forces with 14 other political parties and formed the UNO party. Wells attended Chamorro’s last campaign rally, where she did as much symbol-manipulating as Ortega did. Dressed in a white dress and riding in an elegant white wagon, Chamorro presented herself as a symbol of purity and sincerity to the nation. Wells and other international observers of the election in Nicaragua guessed Ortega and the Sandinistas would win the contest. The crowd at Chamorro’s rally measured only one-fifth the size of Ortega’s festival-like finale. The intense Nicaraguan nationalism combined with their distaste for recent contra disruptions would, they thought, sway more votes in Ortega’s favor. They were surprised. How did it happen? Wells believes that the economic situation in Nicaragua simply was too awful for the people to ignore. They felt that they had sacrificed enough—that their dignity had been taken away from them—and Ortega was not able to use Nicaraguan nationalism to cloud that issue. Now that Chamorro is in power, United States policy has begun to look much like it was before the Sandinistas came to power. According to Wells, Washington would like to convert Nicaragua into a debtor and make it attractive for United States trade. The United States stands to benefit from the aid plan that the Bush administration, Wells believes, will be used more for political purposes than helpful development. In addition, the United States will import agricultural and other products from Nicaragua. Wells sees in these and other developments a return to a more imperialistic United States policy.

Student Government News
By Leigh Rawdon

In last Tuesday’s Student Government Association meeting, Seniors were reminded that their caps and gowns will be delivered October 28 and 29. Seniors who do not live on campus can pick up their caps and gowns outside Chambers Gallery from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on October 30. Lesley Vauclain (Station Manager of DCTV) and William Brown reported to the SGA on the status of the Davidson College cable station. Presently, the management board (Program Director, Production Coordinator, and two members-at-large) is being selected. The actual broadcasting should begin by November 13. The station will provide an opportunity for students to see recorded away sports events, college-wide arts events, local and national news updates, as well as women’s seating house get started. Fundraisers have included a car wash and a bake sale. Elections were held; Sarah Way and Allison Cotton are officially joint presidents. The process seems to be going well and it appears there will be sixty members, the minimum to be recognized by the administration, at the end of self-selection. Dr. Kuykendall brought to Cammie Covington’s (SGA president) attention that Davidson’s staff is not recognized adequately either by students or faculty. The Senate brainstormed for a solution to increase student awareness of the staff's work as well as to increase the staff’s awareness of the student’s appreciation. A Staff Recognition Day, a day designated for student assistance, and an article in the Davidsonian about the Employee of the Month were all suggestions to improve the situation. The meeting ended with the reports from the Committee and the SGA Athletics. Jackie Carberry and Catherine Turner. Students were encouraged to register their bicycles and to fill out the registration form in the dorm room.

BREAK PIZZA With ENGINEERS
892-9046
CALL FOR DELIVERY
FREE sub or dozen wings with purchase of any large "3" topping or more pizza!
50 Wings with "2" large "2" topping pizzas
"3" large plain cheese for only $29.95