THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

Davidson took to finishing the task.

Beach

Football

Spikers

A monster kill by Delery and an ace by Plauche vaulted the ‘Cats’ into a 2-0 lead, and they poured
it on. Joe Beach finished in 47th place, and sophomore Greg Fisher ended his season well with a 48th place
finish. Though the men’s team was disappointed with their performance, coach Gary Andrew had nothing but positive comments. “We’re still
a young team, and the whole team was not in perfect shape all the time. For some, today was a
season PR. For the others, we’ll just go from here. We still have lots to work on towards the future,
but I am very proud and satisfied with our performance today.”

Andrew’s leadership and training techniques landed him the Coach of the Year award for the women’s team in the Big
South Conference. Further accolades for the women included a silver trophy for their extraordinary efforts, plaques for Beach and Marshall
for their all-conference finishes, and the Runner of the Year award given to Beach for her stellar performance. The Davidson
runners have worked hard all year and are looking forward to their final race, the NCAA Regional Meet, to be
held at Furman University in two weeks.

The ‘Cats other score came from a seven-yard touchdown pass to Tim Carrigan, led by quarterback Kevin Holzworth in an
eight-play, 58-yard drive. Holzworth relieved Howell early in the third quarter and remained for the rest of the contest. Fagg
focused more on the exceptional performance by Hampden-Sydney than on the ‘Cats play. “We knew they were awfully good, but
we made a mistake by comparing them with Guilford and Emory and Henry.” He went on to praise his team
for “hanging in and fighting hard. They’re [Hampden-Sydney] just an exceptional football team.”

“The bottom line is that we didn’t execute today and that’s what wins football games,” Holzworth said. “We had some
mistakes and they capitalized on them,” Mills added. Fortunately for the ‘Cats, they are off this weekend before battling Bridgewater
College at home on November 16 to end the season. “In two weeks we'll be ready,” Howell promised. “We’ve had
bad times before, but we’ll bounce back.”

A 15-13, 15-7 victory over the scholarship-laden and more athletic 49ers was a shocking upset. The ‘Cats ran out to
a 9-2 lead in the first game with remarkably fluid play, before the sleeping Forty-Niners suddenly awoke. UNCC strung together
12 consecutive points to take a 14-9 lead, and it looked like the beginning of the end for Davidson. But
just as quickly, the momentum shifted again. With junior Rachel Thompson serving, the ‘Cats ran off 7 straight to steal
the game 16-14.

It was a similar storyline in the second game. Davidson jumped to an 8-4 lead with the hitting of Mimi
Plauche and Janet Delery before a UNCC run negated the advantage. The 49ers assumed a 10-9 lead by setting up
their more athletic hitters for kills and seemed ready to win the game and go on to win the match.
Again, though, the ‘Cats countered with a streak of their own. Saving digs by Mimi Plauche and Knight lifted Davidson
to a 10-10 tie, and a Jennie Wagner ace and a vicious Katherine Anderson kill gave the Wildcats a 12-10
lead they would not relinquish. The 15-13 win effectively ended the match. It was an all-but-beaten UNCC team that took
the floor in the third game, and from the outset...

Varoski Comes From Behind

By Robert Grubb

The men’s tennis team completed its fall season undefeated in dual match play by dominating UNCC 13-1-1 for the second
time this fall. Davidson soundly beat the 49ers in the Davidson Fall Classic two weeks ago. “I was afraid the
team would suffer a letdown and come in overconfident after we beat UNCC 11-1 last time,” said coach Jeff Frank.
“But as Albie [Varoski] and Holt’s [Vaughan] three set wins show, we were ready to play.”

Varoski struggled against UNCC’s number one player, Stan Cocke, who has always played well against Davidson. Varoski dropped the first
set 7-5, but dominated the next two sets 6-1, 6-2 to finish his fall season with a 7-3 record. “Last
year someone like Kurtis Zabell never could have beaten a player like Cocke,” said Varoski.

Freshman Holt Vaughan was the only other Wildcat to have a difficult match. Vaughan dropped the second set 5-7, after
winning the first 6-3. Vaughan recovered to win a close third set 6-4. Frank was also pleased with the play
of Russell Briggs at number 2 singles. But Frank also...emphasized the tremendous depth displayed by the Wildcats in the expanded
format match. Jim Vincent and David Kim, who normally do not play singles, entered the lineup for Davidson and picked
up two wins. In other Parents Weekend lineup changes, the third, fourth, and fifth doubles teams were shifted around but
still collected wins. “Not only does the fact that three new doubles teams won show our depth, but it also
shows our strength in doubles,” said Frank. “I’m very happy with where our doubles is at this point in the
season, and we are only going to get better.” Frank was ecstatic with the play of the team this fall
and rightfully so. The team was undefeated in dual match play and won two of the three tournaments it played
in. “This has been a storybook fall,” said Frank. “The UNCC match was typical of the team’s play. The players
were confident and tough. I hope we can carry this into the tough matches in the early part of the
spring.”

Rugby Program Developing
By Bruce Page

In the late 1960s, Davidson College Rugby was a powerhouse in the North Carolina Rugby Union, but Davidson didn’t play
a full season of rugby from then until 1989. Since then, however, rugby has been growing as a club sport
at Davidson and has again become a force to be reckoned with. In fact, the team won a trophy at
the state tournament two years ago. Seniors Tim Harris and Mike Malloy run the team this year. Twenty-seven players comprise
the 1991 roster, but since 15 are on the field at the same time in a match, the squad is
looking for more players to scrimmage during practice. Presently, the team has representation from every fraternity and the independent ranks
and has players from each of the four classes. Open practices are held Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. on
the Upper IMAC Fields.

Wagner made a sprawling dig that helped the Wildcats to a 7-3 lead. Amy Howard’s dink service ace made it
9-3, and Anderson’s angle kill made it 10-3. Plauche mashed one for a 14-4 cushion, and Davidson closed out the
match 15-7. Afterward, the team was reluctant to leave. A throng of players and parents gathered on the court to
celebrate as the workmen pushed in the bleachers around them. Hawkins often says that the secret of her team’s success
is that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, and it was never more evident than in
the win over UNCC. The scholarship players on the floor for UNCC were, on the whole, bigger and faster and
jumped higher than their Davidson counterparts. But the 49ers lacked the team unity and chemistry that was Davidson’s defining characteristic.
Tuesday night’s match with UNC-Greensboro will immediately follow the men’s soccer game with UNC-Asheville and will be the final appearance
at Belk Arena for seniors Plauche, Hathaway, and Knight. Free pizza and Coke will be given away in the hopes
of drawing 1,000 fans. The conference tournament begins Friday in Asheville.

Continued from page 12

Styles gives her team balance. While Holt leads by example, Mimi is much more verbal on the court. She calls
Knight “one of our sparkplugs,” the kind of vocal, hustling player that makes the team “greater than the sum of
its parts.” What has set the three seniors apart more than anything, though, is how much fun they have playing
together. Says Knight, “I laugh harder when I’m playing volleyball than anywhere else. I wouldn’t trade these years with them
for anything.” Make an effort to catch the end of an era Tuesday night at Belk Arena.

Support The Davidson Wildcats!

MAKE THE CALL FOR THESE GREAT DEALS.

PIZZA Call Us! 896-8007
Store Address: Shops on the Green
Hours: 11 a.m.-12 a.m. Sunday-Thursday; 11 a.m.-1 a.m. Fri. & Sat.
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc. pays sales tax where applicable. ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

LATE NIGHT SPECIAL
Large 1 Topping Pizza & Two Cokes for $6.00
10 p.m.-Midnight
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable.
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late
deliveries.

LARGE 1 TOPPING PIZZA $6.99 ($7.41 w/tax) Anytime
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable.
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late
deliveries. Cash value 1/20¢.
