THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

MADISON, Wis. (CPS) - The man responsible for 2 Live Crew’s troubles has started another anti-obscenity crusade, this time against
the University of Wisconsin and a Miami teen hotline. Jack Thompson, head of the Coral Gables, Fla., group Parents Opposed
to the Propaganda in Schools, claims that audio information tapes distributed by the university promote homosexuality, drug use, and masturbation
and do not comply with a Florida obscenity statute.

“We’ve had our own opinions rendered by a legal staff and they tell us we are not out of compliance
with the law,” said George McKinner, associate executive director of The Switchboard of Miami, the non-profit crisis prevention service that
uses the tapes for its teen hotline. “This man is after one tape - the recording of homosexuality - because
he’s highly homophobic,” McKinney said. “What can you do about that? It’s a matter of personal opinion.”

The tapes, distributed by the University of Wisconsin at Madison, are part of a service the school’s University Outreach program
offers. The 875 tapes provide information about topics that range from health care and diagnosis to social issues such as
homosexuality, abortion, drug abuse, and masturbation. Each tape plays for three to five minutes, and the subjects are determined by
the people who request them. The tapes are distributed nationally under the name HealthLine in more than 25 states to
about 70 health and social service organizations, secondary school systems, and colleges and universities.

“The tapes are developed and written by our faculty and staff and are periodically reviewed by faculty and staff for
revisions,” said program director Ann Whitaker. Thompson, unavailable for comment, earlier told the Associated Press that the tapes “mentally molest
minors...behind parents’ backs.” The University of Wisconsin’s response to Thompson’s threat of a suit was short: “We are cooperating with
the Florida Bar [Association’s] investigation and are not commenting any further on it,” said Chuck Stathas, general counsel for the
University of Wisconsin System.

McKinner said over 600,000 teenagers have used the tapes via hotline since the hotline emerged in January 1990. “Thompson is
distorting this to make it sound like we are promoting smut on the telephone,” McKinney said. “What we are promoting
is responsible behavior.”

Last year, Thompson convinced a federal judge that rap group 2 Live Crew’s album “As Nasty As They Wanna Be”
was legally obscene.

Klein Continued from page 1

Klein has also been active at Davidson outside of teaching. He is on the faculty executive committee and has been
elected to a number of different committees dealing with issues such as tenure, minority affairs, and strategic planning. Klein is
also involved in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church as an elder, steward, and a Sunday School teacher.

Klein joins a select group of six other Davidson professors who have CASE awards in the last seven years. The
past winners are Charlie Ratliff (1985 Gold Medalist), Rosmarie Tong (1986 National Professor of the Year while at Williams), Cynthia
Lewis (1987 Silver Medalist), Gail Gibson (1987 Silver Medalist and N.C. Professor of the Year), Bob Manning (1988 Silver Medalist),
and Julio Ramirez (1989 Gold Medalist and N.C. Professor of the Year).

SGA Continued from page 1

The SGA representative for this program is Kym Motley and the Ambassadors representative is Sally Gantt. Bixby and LeNard are
the Admissions Office coordinators. Bixby said that this new program needs as much student involvement as possible. If you are
interested in helping out with this program please contact any of these people for further information.

Eating Continued from page 1

The Committee for Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) must also approve the action. Financially the new house must be able
to pay for the kitchen equipment and other expenses. Dean Marsicano said, “The College has historically helped in this area,
but Dean Terry has made it clear that there are no funds available this year.” She explained that the idea
has not really evolved beyond the conceptual stages and therefore the College does not yet have a position on the
issue.

If the committee’s plans go as scheduled, Freshmen will be able to self-select the new house in January. The committee
considers the Freshmen to be an important part of the process because without their support it is unlikely that there
will be the required sixty members. In an effort to make it easier for upperclassmen to switch houses, the presidents
of the current houses have proposed that women be allowed to maintain their membership status in their former house throughout
the spring semester. They would assume full membership in the new house next fall. This arrangement would, however, force women
to pay dues at both houses. The committee emphasized that thefee to the new house would be “minimal.” Some women
feel that the presence of a new house may endanger Spencer, which is currently much smaller than the other two
houses. Tammy Winn, Spencer president, said, “I personally think a fourth house is a good idea, but I would like
to strengthen what we have.” Winn said her house has been working with the Dean of Students office to find
a remedy to the inequality of the houses. Winn also said that her comments reflected her personal beliefs, not necessarily
the views of her entire house. Warner Hall president Monica Lide commented, “I think that it is important that we
stabilize what we have before starting up a new house.” Lide also said, “The time is getting close for a
new eating house.” The panel clearly indicated that their reason for leading this effort was not in any way due
to dissatisfaction with their respective houses.

Smith Elected to Hall of Fame
By Rachel Dunifon----Courtesy of College Relations

C. Shaw Smith, former director of the Davidson College Union, was honored recently as an inductee to the Southeastern Association
of Magicians’ Hall of Fame. Smith has been a member of the Association since the early 1950s, and is only
the sixth member of its Hall of Fame. He modestly claimed that the only reason for the award is that
he has “outlived” all of the other magicians in the association. However, according to John Swint, executive director of the
association, Smith deserves the honor. Swint said inductees are members who have sustained magic as a performing art, and who
“are like a candle, radiating and giving light to others.”

Magic has been an important part of Smith’s life since he received a magic kit for a Christmas present at
age 8. He began performing for church groups, Boy Scouts, and school events, and earned some extra spending money with
it as a Davidson College student in the mid-1930s. He said he is grateful to his Davidson professors for their
appreciation of his talent and the opportunities they gave him to use it on campus. This, Smith said, helped him
to put magic in a proper perspective, and allowed him to enjoy it as a hobby without letting it take
over his life.

Later, Smith and his wife, Nancy, and their five children toured the country performing for ten summers in a traveling
variety show. These self-paid vacations allowed the family to see a wide area of the United States, as well as
Europe. Smith still does one-man shows on college and university campuses and for civic organizations, businesses, and church groups. He
says that his show has not changed much over the years, that he still uses tricks that are “stolen” from
other magicians, but presented in his own unique way. Smith calls his approach a “tongue-in-cheek approach to surprise magic,” claiming
that “when you don’t have talent, you just have to use gimmicks—I just have nerve!”

Smith believes that his type of entertainment is unique in that it cuts across many lines and appeals to a
wide range of people. Smith’s goal in performing is to “give a little lift” to people to make them happy
about life, hopeful about the future, and looking forward to life’s surprises. Magic is the perfect medium for this because,
as Smith said, it “heightens the idea of a sense of wonder and a sense of enjoyment” at life’s mysteries.

BORED? money for you and just sit on involved in — activities at Shops on ~ 10% Off | The
Green: with Exit 28, Davidson | Past ID through McDonald's le; September’ and the a er ACC alma fiat Inn.
clude sale mer- Camping Equipment & Clothing

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD and live with British Students

HOW WISC IS DIFFERENT FROM MOST OVERSEAS PROGRAMS:
• Accepted students receive admissions letters (and later transcripts) directly from an Oxford (or Cambridge) college.
• Students are directly enrolled as full students of the Oxford college.
• Qualified early applicants may share a co-ed Student Residence associated with St. Catherine's College, Oxford (fully integrated with British
students).
• Students accepted before November 1 (for the Winter Term) or before May 1 (for next year) are guaranteed housing
with British students.
• Students will NOT be taught in (and receive transcripts from) an American college operating in Oxford. WISC is one
of the few completely integrated (academically and in housing) overseas programs in the UK.
• Previous students in your field will speak to you on the phone.

For information, call or write:
THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES COUNCIL
214 Massachusetts Avenue N.E., Suite 450, Washington, DC 20002, (800) 323-WISC

Students may also Intern and Study in Washington and London

A representative from Oxford will be on your campus on Friday, September 20, for additional information call (800) 323-WISC.
