THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991

(CPS) - While the programs would not drop, they have to be about women. A Middlesex Superior Court judge is considering a proposal to demote its intercollegiate football team to a less-expensive club status. Grambling State University will discipline two students who attacked a white speaker. 

Collegiate Briefs

The University of California at Santa Barbara is sponsoring scholarships to save money. Similarly, Northwest Missouri State University announced it would freeze wages and minimize campus scholarships. Point Park College in Pittsburgh announced it will eliminate majors in Spanish and Math.

Funding Problems Plague More Student Programs

LAFAYETTE, La. (CPS) - Derrick Bell, the first tenured black professor, is on paid leave of absence.

The Department of English announces competitions for:

The 1991 VEREEN BELL MEMORIAL AWARD FOR CREATIVE WRITING
The 1991 CHARLES LLOYD AWARD FOR WRITING
The 1991 R. WINDLEY HALL WRITING AWARD FOR FRESHMEN

All manuscripts should be submitted to a member of the Department of English by 4:00 p.m. on Friday, March 22, 1991. No names should appear on the manuscript itself. Manuscripts should be accompanied by a cover sheet with the title of the work, the author’s name, address, and phone number. The awards will be presented at the annual Literary Awards Ceremony on Thursday, April 18, 1991, at 8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. All entrants must be present at the Awards Ceremony. The rules and judges for each competition are listed below.

VEREEN BELL COMPETITION. The Vereen Bell Award is given to the sophomore, junior, or senior who has done the best work in poetry, fiction, or drama. The award carries a first prize of $100, a second prize of $75, and a third prize of $50. The judge for the 1991 competition is the distinguished poet and short story writer, Peter Meinke, who was Davidson’s first McGee Professor of Writing in 1989. Students may enter in more than one genre. All entries should be typed double-spaced except for poetry which may be single-spaced with double spacing between stanzas.

CHARLES LLOYD COMPETITION. The Charles E. Lloyd Writing Award is given to the sophomore, junior, or senior who submits the best piece of prose non-fiction. Forms may include academic writing, personal essays, and satire/humor. An outside reader will judge the entries on the basis of prose style, originality, clarity, structure, and substance. The judge for the 1991 competition is Gordon Ball, Davidson Class of 1966, documentary filmmaker and critic, who teaches in the Department of English and Fine Arts at VMI in Lexington, VA. Entries are limited to 25 typewritten double-spaced pages, containing no more than three essays.

R. WINDLEY HALL COMPETITION. The R. Windley Hall Award is presented to the freshman who submits the best piece of creative writing. Entries may fall in any recognized genre including poetry, fiction, drama, or the essay. Essays written for English 101 or Humanities 150-151 classes may be critiqued by faculty members and revised for submission in the competition. Students may submit entries in more than one genre. All entries should be typed, double-spaced (except for poetry which may be single-spaced with double-spacing between stanzas). The judge for the 1991 competition will be poet and short story writer, Joseph Bathanti, visiting writer at Mitchell Community College in Statesville.

YOU MAY CONSULT ANY MEMBER OF THE ENGLISH DEPT. IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS.

Dr. Jonathan Petropoulos answers questions after his lecture onThe Nazi Degenerate Art Exhibit. Photo by Hillary Bridgers

Petropoulos Speaks on Nazi "Degenerate Art Exhibit"
By Sean Lind

On Thursday, March 14, Dr. Jonathan Petropoulos spoke on “Germania And Genocide: The World View Of The National Socialist Leaders As Expressed Through Their Art Collecting.” The lecture, sponsored by the departments of German, History, and Art, and by The Dean Rusk Program and the Committee on Lectures, examined the relationship between Nazi leaders and their art collections. Petropoulos, who recently obtained his Ph.D. in History from Harvard, is currently a lecturer for the departments of History and History & Literature at Harvard.

Petropoulos has spent a good amount of his time over the last three years working as a historical consultant and doing research for the reconstruction of the famous Nazi “Degenerate Art Exhibition of 1937.” The New York Times praises the collection as “nothing less than a tour-de-force of reconstructive scholarship. It is also more: a morality tale that can never be told too often and that