12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Inside Art

The photograph below was submitted by Oma Blaise, a junior English major from Santa Fe, New Mexico. The Davidson Arts
editors anxiously await your submissions to Inside Art. We will accept poetry and prose as well as photography or drawings
for consideration. Please call Jim Carswell, Will Montgomery, or David Thompson at 896-0953.

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. You Just Don't Understand, by Deborah Tannen. (Ballantine, $10.00.) How men and women can understand each other better.

2. Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, by Steven R. Covey. (Fireside, $9.95.) Guide to personal fulfillment.

3. The Burden of Proof, by Scott Turow. (Warner, $5.95.) A lawyer tries to solve the mystery of his wife’s
death.

4. The Revenge of the Baby-Sat, by Bill Watterson. (Andrews & McMeel, $5.95.) More cartoons.

5. Rand McNally Road Atlas. (Rand McNally, $7.95.) 1991 edition of a guide to the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.

6. Where the Wild Things Are, by Maurice Sendak. (HarperCollins, $6.95.) A boy's adventure to a place where he becomes
king.

7. The Joy Luck Club, by Amy Tan. (Ivy, $5.95.) Destinies of Chinese-American women.

8. September, by Rosamunde Pilcher. (St. Martin's Press, $5.99.) People from all over the world meet in a Scottish town.

9. The Education of Little Tree, by Forrest Carter. (Univ. of New Mexico, $10.95.) Growing up with the Cherokee way
of life.

10. The First Man in Rome, by Colleen McCullough. (Avon, $6.95.) A saga of a remarkable era.

New & Recommended

Conquest of Gaul, by Julius Caesar. (Penguin, $8.95.) Caesar's time, his exploits, and his legacy.

In a German Pension, by Katherine Mansfield. (Bantam, $3.50.) A collection of stories with sharp wit and haunting psychological insight.

The General in His Labyrinth, by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. (Penguin, $9.95.) Portrait of the great Simon Bolivar - the liberator,
the orchestrator of political and military intrigue, the fighter capable of heroism, mercy, and ruthlessness.

Crawl

Continued from page 10.

The stuffing my mind was tricked into both the idea of wearing the itchy fiberglass and a gross naugahyde 1976
garage sale raincoat. The wires heightened this nightmarish anxiety and the whole piece reminded me of the fear of being
locked in a hot attic on a summer day.

The success of her exhibit lies in the way the textures of her clothing creations relate to the space inside.
Rowles gets it right in her statement saying “the empty space inside reminds us of the spiritual presence of the
absent wearer.” This was especially truthful in Vapor and several others which made me physically cringe upon viewing. Several pieces
were somewhat boring in terms of color. Granted, she relied upon the natural colors of everyday items like insulation and
dull green plastic army men. Yet in her fabric creations, some variety or unexpected combinations might energize a flat visual
experience.

I recommend Ann Rowles’ Threads exhibit and hope that you see these creations for yourself. They are both striking and
subtle. While you are in Charlotte, check out the lobby of the Carillon, a new office tower on West Trade
Street. Jean Tinguely’s kinetic sculpture Cascade is the centerpiece of an intriguing and enjoyable sculpture exhibit.

Kiss

Continued from page 11.

show tunes.”

The musical will open on October 10th at 8 p.m., and then run from the 11th until the 19th. Tickets
go on sale Monday, October 7th, in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building (892-2340).
