4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

The Right To Be Idiots

Once again, several members of the Davidson community are in an uproar about the actions of a few Patterson Court
houses. During the week of October 14, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity posted fliers advertising their annual “Electric Jell-O” party.
To be euphemistic, the posters were somewhat irksome to most thinking human beings. In fact, they were downright stupid and
offensive.

Next, at Phi Delta Theta’s “Air Band” party on October 19, a few students employed an inflatable doll to simulate
sexual acts in a manner which some spectators claim resembled a gang rape. Members of the group performing writhed ecstatically
about with their polyethylene pal as the beer-drenched minions below howled for gyrations lewder still. As if “Air Band” wasn’t
unpleasant enough already.

The question is not whether the SAEs put up a bad flyer, or whether some participants in “Air Band” took
a few liberties with a plastic party guest. They did*. The question presently before the community is how we shall
deal with such promoters of the lascivious. Some have suggested turning the matters over to the Patterson Court Council with
the possibility of the fraternities in question incurring punishments in the form of social probation. Others feel that the matter
should be entrusted to the Dean of Students Office. Yet another trio believe that some sort of “co-ed committee should
screen the acts before the damage is done.” (McCarthyism, we are pleased to see, still has a place in the
hearts of today’s young.)

These people all seem to be forgetting that, although it’s not written this way, the First Amendment pretty much guarantees
anybody’s right to be an idiot. There are limits to such protection, but these cases are pretty clear. No branch
of the college administration should take official action against either of these fraternities. However offensive the content of their expression,
the people under fire have the right to express themselves like baboons, as they have.

The best way to show disdain for the SAEs and the Delts (or the members of the offending “Air Band”
group) is through personal expression. The Rusk house was so upset with SAE’s flyer that they refused to contribute any
funds to the party. In fact, very few women attended the party at all. Choosing not to attend the social
functions of a group which offends you is more likely to affect change in their attitudes than getting drunk at
their parties as soon as they endure a period of probation. In turn, the offending participants in the “Air Band”
competition should be persuaded by their friends and acquaintances to express better judgment rather than be punished by the school.

Annoyingly enough, people do have the right to be offensive. Calling for their punishment will accomplish nothing. Instead, such action
would stifle the freedom of expression for the entire student body. What sentiment would be next on the list of
“unacceptable notions for public expression” if we allow sexism to be the first? The responsibility for promoting understanding and respect
around the school lies with individuals: if you’re that bothered by a flyer, skip the party. If someone hurts or
offends you with that which they consider funny, tell them. It’s up to you to act because the college cannot
be expected to police the speech of its students.

* Special thanks to Harold Ramis, author of the Animal House screenplay for that line.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

CLARENCE THOMAS IS ON REMEMBER THISWEEKEND THE SUPREME COURT

Letters

SET YOUR CLOCKS BACK

UNITED PROTEST

Two Houses Offend Students

To the Editor:

The weekend of October 20th greeted us with SAE’s lovely party flyer - a drawing of a woman on all
fours with her buttocks in the air. The flyer had the following caption, “Carrol the collie says 'I’d do anything
to get some jello.’” This is degrading, disgusting, and malicious. More disturbing is a few of the SAE’s flippant attitudes
toward the message they are sending to women. Let’s face it, you have already angered everyone with the lesbian/dork flyer.
Why do you continue to promote this callous fraternity boy beer-guzzling insensitive image? The flyers should be representative of your
house. The fact that the flyer designer included the Rusk House name on the flyer upsets us. We told our
ID’ers and monitors not to attend the party, and withdrew our financial support as well. It is sad that we
must resort to such extensive measures to ensure common decency.

See "Herzig" on page 6

In Defense of Oma Blaise

To the Editor:

After reading First East’s comments on Ms. Blaise’s weekly column, “Sexuality and Health,” we cannot help but respond. Its obvious
sarcastic intent leads us to believe that Mr. Peters and others would find it quite humorous to look down one
day and find a special “love present” growing in their lower region. This cavalier attitude could lead to serious health
problems for these men in the future. In reference to their concerns about Mumsey and Dadda, they are in college
now, and we are sure their parents would want them to make informed decisions about sexuality. Let’s face it: parents
know about sexuality. We are all evidence of that. There is no need to hide the Davidsonian from them for
fear that they might be disgusted with the topics addressed by Ms. Blaise. They would rather these men learn from
the facts that could save their lives. AIDS and all other sexual diseases are no joke. Besides causing infertility (what
a blow to their huge male egos), they can lead to death. If they truly would like to read an
article on “bisexual necrophiliacs with a penchant for bestiality,” why don’t they share their vast knowledge with the rest of
us and write for the Davidsonian?

See "Reinertsen" on page 6

A "Concerned Parent" Writes

To the Editor:

The regular Sexual Disease feature by Oma Blaise sure is comforting to read. No students need to worry about continuing
to fornicate as long as the dreaded STD’s are detected in time. And it was good to read that genital
warts are forever, so little is lasting these days... Like the flimsy condoms being distributed free in dorms. How responsible
of the students to demand a better heavy-duty brand! Should last from one girl to the next. Nice to see
that the college is 100% behind facilitating responsible behavior among sexually active students. What about the rest, the sexually comatose?
What does Davidson do for them? “Sexually active” certainly sounds preferable to sexually otherwise. But what group of students is
the most active? Which is taking an active stand, and which is staking our culture’s assault of sexual pressure lying
down? You better believe students who are demonstrating fidelity to their future mates are fighting a battle every day to
retain their virginity. One major battle strategy is to keep plenty active in physically healthy ways. Responsible sexually active students
do not exist. Premarital sex is selfish sex. For that reason no amount of goop or rubber can make it
“responsible.” Active sexually responsible students do exist. Let’s support them. Here’s one idea how: a regular column in the Davidsonian
on how to say no to sexual pressure, how to show love in other ways, how to meet other sexually
responsible students, how to hang on to some semblance of common sense. Anyone got any other supportive ideas?

Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent (A dying breed)

Obscenities Are Inappropriate

To the editor:

I have recently become aware of the obscene language yelled by Davidson students at spectator sports. A few weeks ago
at the Davidson vs. UNC Charlotte men’s soccer game, I was sitting in the middle of a group of students.
We were surrounded by faculty members and their families, parents of athletes, children in the community, and a few elderly
people. I was embarrassed by the strings of obscenities students were hurling at referees and players on the visiting team.

See "Mullins" on page 6
