4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

Cornelius Movie Theater to Open
By Kevin Miller

The new, high-tech “Movies at the Lake” theater, located behind the Pizza Hut in Cornelius, opens Friday, November 22. The
theater, featuring eight modern wall-to-wall movie screens with Dolby and Smart Stereo Surround Systems, expects to draw large crowds for
its grand opening. The theater will run only three movies next weekend, so as to avoid the showing of movies
that have run for several weeks already. The movies, “Cape Fear” starring Robert De Niro and Nick Nolte, “Addam’s Family”
starring Christopher Lloyd and Raul Julia, and the cartoon “Fievel Goes West” all promise to be hits in these ultra-modern
theaters. Joining these three on Wednesday, November 27 are “My Girl” and the new Disney classic “Beauty and the Beast.”
The remaining three screens will open in the beginning weeks of December, when the first of this year’s Christmas movies
release.

Many Davidson students are eagerly awaiting the opening of the theater. Joseph Dunham said, “I think the movie theater will
be a good addition to the social life of Davidson students.” Shane Mills said, “I’m excited about the theater because
it will give us a good place to take dates.”

As a special grand opening feature, the movie theater is starting a “Name the Mermaid” contest. The mermaid, a provocative
neon girl-fish on the front of the building, needs a name and the theater is giving away a free cruise
to the winner. Prices for the theater are $3.75 for general admission before 6:00 pm; after 6:00 pm, they are
$3.75 for children and $5.50 for adults. Prices on popcorn and candy are “pretty economical,” according to one “Movies at
the Lake” employee, but no price lists have been disclosed by management.

Project Life Set To Hold Registry
By Catherine Turner

This Wednesday Project Life will hold their second annual Bone Marrow Registry Drive from 9 am-4 pm in the Morrison
Room. The Project Life Committee has been working hard to raise money to cover the sixty dollar cost of each
test. With the help of eating houses, fraternities, individual donations, people who have bought t-shirts and the Red Cross who
is matching the money raised, Project Life hopes to be able to test around three hundred people. If you would
like to pay for yourself or you are getting sponsors you can simply bring your money when you come to
the drive. If you were not tested last year and are under 65 you are eligible to be tested. The
process is very simple. Only the equivalent of two tablespoons of blood is taken and therefore the time required is
a lot less than the usual blood drive. Project Life invites everyone to come and be tested, testing will continue
until the funds are depleted. However, those who are funding their own test, either by paying for it by themselves
or by getting sponsors, will be guaranteed a test. If you have any questions please feel free to call any
member of The Project Life Committee or write to P.O. Box 342 Davidson, N.C. 28036.

Guest Continued from page 1

rooms will have cable television when the renovations are completed. According to Pritchard, the renovations are important for a number
of reasons. First, the guest house has not been renovated in “quite a few years” and some of the improvements
were necessary. Also, the renovated guest house will provide a “more useful facility,” since receptions and other activities can be
held there. Finally, the renovations to the guest house are important because the admissions office now uses the guest house
for overnight visits and information sessions with prospective students and their parents. The house needs to be improved because “the
guest house isthe first and last thing the parents see.” Although the renovations are behind schedule, Pritchard feels that the
delays are understandable because new furniture had to be ordered and delivered. The guest house has remained open, with a
fairly high rate of occupancy, during the renovation process. Remaining open has slowed down the renovations somewhat, since “only parts
of the house can be worked on at once.” Pritchard says that the guest house will be closed during the
first week in January so that the floors can be refinished. When the renovations are complete, Pritchard feels that the
guest house will be a “warm and cordial place” and he encourages students to drop in and see the changes.

NOTICE
The Campus Services and Facilities Committee needs some student help. For those who don't know, the purpose of the committee
is to make improvements around campus. Projects that we have undertaken thus far include grills for the senior apartments and
additional bike racks. An idea for a laundry chute is currently under discussion. If anyone has any new and creative
ideas, we could sure use them, as we are running out. Please drop your suggestions off in the SGA office
or in the SGA envelope at the end of the hall in Chambers nearest the Union. It's an easy way
to help make some visible changes around campus.

8:00 Friday November 8 -- 10:30 Tuesday November 12
Between the above times, Patrick Holloway reported someone entered his locked dorm room and removed a variety of clothing. His
two roommates are the only ones with keys to the room. The value of stolen items was listed at $458.00.

10:30am -- 5:30pm Friday November 8
Between the above times a wallet was removed from a bookbag in 230C Chambers. The wallet is valued at $30
and contained several bank and credit cards.

Saturday November 9
On the above evening, three rooms in Akers dorm were broken into and several items were stolen. In Akers 204,
which was unlocked, an amethyst ring valued at $1,000, a pair of $100 brown leather Vasque hiking boots, two cubic
zirconia rings valued at $40 and $20, and a cup containing $22 dollars in change were stolen. In Akers 211,
which was unlocked, a $150 leather bomber jacket and $60 in cash were stolen. In Akers 209, which was unlocked,
a $500 signet ring, a $120 woven gold band ring, a $200 18-inch herringbone chain, a sweater and shirt were
stolen.

6:15 -- 6:20 Saturday November 9
Between the above times a $300 green and grey watch was removed from a shower hook in the bathroom of
1st East Belk dorm.

November 11
On the above date David Patterson Mast was charged with indecent exposure. He committed this act in front of the
senior apartments. He was promptly arrested and put in jail.

Or maybe breakfast and dinner, too. Skip a meal on the Thursday before Thanksgiving, and join millions of students who,
since 1973, have been a part of the Fast for a World Harvest campaign. Help some of the poorest people
in the world feed themselves for a lifetime. On your campus, contact: Hunger Awareness Committee 896-6825

Lose Your Lunch
Lose your lunch November 21. You'll be surprised how much you gain.

THE WEAVER'S STUDIO
Located next to the Post Office parking lot...
Hours: 10-5 MWF 10-3 TTHS

"I had no idea there was a place as neat as this in Davidson!"
"I can't wait to bring my Mom and Dad here."
"I'd love to have one of those in my room."

HANDWOVEN GIFT ITEMS:
SCARVES
WOMEN'S CLOTHING
PLACEMATS/NAPKINS

ASK US ABOUT LESSONS
