THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Weight Room
By Walter Wray

Having noticed the arbitrary sign reading “no hats allowed” in the new weight room, or Lapko Room, of Baker Sports
Complex, I had wondered who was responsible for this attempted infringement on my personal rights. Discounting myself as an apathetic
individual, I innocently inquired to the work-study student as to the purpose of the above-mentioned rule of “no hats.” She
responded that Terry Holland had put up the sign and that he had done so stating that, “to wear a
hat erodes the integrity of the Sports Complex.” Her answer was simple enough, but elicited chuckles in both of us.
Somewhat dissatisfied, I would continue wearing my San Francisco Giants hat during my efforts to “get big.”

Some six months later while striding into the Lapko side of the weight room, I spied the man responsible for
the no hats allowed policy. He too was trying to get big, but was not sporting a topper. Anticipating conflict,
my pulse raced. Ambling over to me, the tall man kindly recommended that I remove my hat. Then came the
reply that I hadn’t known existed in me, “No, I will not remove my hat.” “Yes, you will.” With newly
found resolve, I demanded to hear the reasoning behind his command. I briefly considered the possible punishments for insubordination that
I vaguely retained from my days in public high school. Now came his reply. First, he felt that to wear
a hat in the weight room was unsafe because a “spotter” would neglect his duty of protecting his partner in
order to pick up a fallen hat. Secondly, he argued that a hat displays a lack of commitment to purpose.

Later, when he attacked me at the water fountain, he introduced himself as Terry Holland, the new Athletic Director. “Hi,
I’m Walter.” I sensed he liked my spirited defense of my hat, but was irritated at having his authority challenged.
He continued to argue that at Virginia they had the same policy and no one complained. He felt that because
a hat was an unnecessary piece of clothing it was superfluous. I argued that it was more unsafe for me
to lift without a hat because of my long hair. He suggested I wear a headband. Hell no. Who ever
established that Davidson students needed to be committed to their activities anyhow? “You don’t wear a hat in class, do
you?” he inquired while showing his ignorance. I corrected him, pointing out that both men and women wear hats in
class. “Terry, you have got to change with the times.” He felt that wearing a hat showed a lack of
respect toward others. I feel that he shows a lack of respect for our personal rights in this manner. There
is really no safety issue involved here, it is simply a question of imposing one’s outdated and skewed personal preferences
onto others. The argument continued. “Terry, this gym is for the stu-

Thoughts on the "Politically Correct" Debate
By Jim Carswell

There has been a lot of talk lately about the so-called “politically correct” movement becoming popular on college campuses. Time
had a big article titled “Upside Down in the Groves of Academe” a couple of weeks ago, and even The
Davidsonian included an editorial on the subject. The general consensus is that “P.C.” is bad, though there was a sort
of a rebuttal to the Time article in an essay the following week. The naysayers oppose the “vicious scourge of
censorship and oppression... running loose in the halls of academia.” And they are right to do so. Kicking a guy
out of school because he got drunk and yelled some racist things late at night is just silly. Some have
said that Brown University (which is where this whole thing happened, in case you have not been keeping up with
the news) denied this fellow his first amendment rights. But this episode is too absurd to warrant any discussion of
the Constitution - he was just drunk and acting stupid. (God knows we’ve all done that!)

The opposition to the P.C. movement cites actions at other colleges, too. The University of Delaware will not let a
professor take a grant from a company it views as racist, and, in California, some are trying to ban such
phrases as “a nip in the air” because they might offend Japanese and other minority students. These people are going
too far in their effort to enlighten us. And in their zeal, they have forgotten an old but proven principle:
You Cannot Legislate Morals. Trying to force awareness of bias on people will only lead to backlash.

Time and Beyond Birkenstock: A Brief Reflection of Times Now
By J. Kyle Kinner and Seth J. McLaughlin

“What dire offense from amorous causes springs, What mighty contests rise from trivial things...” Well, Pope (not the Italian) sure
knew what he was talking about. You want to talk about raising the collective ire? Try writing the conservative political
column for your local weekly. It ain’t easy, folks. If we had a nickel for every armchair columnist who thought
he or she had a clue, we could buy and sell you all a thousand times over. Such is life.
Just try thinking up new and provoking insults on a weekly basis. Keep in mind that, although offending PCP’ers (political
correctness, for the politically inert) may not be a factor in our editing decisions, a libel suit is something we
could do without. Remember when we called you all a bunch of slack-jawed troglodytes. You could all still get together
and file a class-action suit, you know. Hurry up and get your revenge before the statute of limitations runs out.
Maybe Marge and Homer Simpson are getting their lawyer (you know, the one whose card turns into a sponge when
you put it in water) to file a copyright infringement against us for the troglodyte allusions. Who knows what evil
lurks in the hearts of men? Ha, ha, there we go again; a non-gender-inclusive sexistchauvinist male reference to men. You
see, therefore, what kinds of risks we take each week to bring everyone humor and happiness, you Perrier sipping, new
Spring L. L. Bean catalogue receiving, lovers of great books you’ve never really read. Sadly, this opus marks our last
legitimate column of the spring term. (Yeah, we bet you’re sad about that.) Anyway, as we realize that last week’s
column has probably elicited at least one response, The Davidsonian are part of the reaction against this movement, one that
originated with high ideals and admirable goals. The problem is that the United States is a sexist, racist, and classist
society. Even in 1991, women only make sixty-five cents for every dollar that men make in comparable jobs, a higher
percentage of blacks live in poverty than whites, and race riots occur in New York City (remember Bensonhurst). Our culture
is sick, and we refuse to find a cure, or even to look for the cause of the illness. Most
of us, anyway. The original “politically correct” realized that many of the problems in America, in all of Western culture,
originate in lack of understanding. Whites cannot comprehend the struggle that blacks went through, just to be considered equal. Men
refuse to recognize the fact that they have kept women locked in the kitchen for centuries. Straights don’t understand gays.
Christians don’t understand Jews. Westerners don’t understand the rest of the world. By promoting the literature and culture of the
so-called minorities, the P.C. movement has striven to foster understanding, and, to be trite, love among all people. Reading Malcolm
X shows how a childhood of racial disadvantage led to his actions. Attending a recital of Indian music proves that
Eastern culture has merits as well. Using sex-inclusive language reminds us, ever so gently, that women contribute to society as
well. Too often, those of us in “the majority” forget these seemingly self-evident truths. And we have an obligation, indeed
a duty to remember that everyone counts from the white to the black, the man to the woman, the American
to the Iraqi. This is the basis of the “politically correct” movement. Maybe the name should be changed to “politically
aware” or even “humanly aware.” It sounds better, and describes the attitude more clearly. The point is that everyone must
strive to understand all the members of the (trite again) human family. The president of Brown should not have to
force tolerance on unruly students. That fellow, like all of us, should make a determined effort to become aware. As
citizens of the United States, we have the right to think and say anything we want, but as members of
the human race we have an obligation to love and help each other. Make the free choice to become “humanly
aware.” It’s the “correct” thing to do.

Jim Carswell is a Junior Religion major from Augusta, GA.

Strickland Continued from page 6

you correct. All it exemplifies is that African Americans have a plurality of opinions on the problems facing America. Notice,
I did not say confronting African Americans, but all Americans, because our problems are America’s problems. The problems confronting African
Americans should not engender guilt among Whites and should not be manipulated to serve that purpose—guilt is an ephemeral emotion
that does not make for effective public policy. I do not believe that it is White guilt, or guilt at
all that many African Americans want, but compassion and respect. Your statement, although I do not believe it was racist,
was distasteful and lacked both compassion and respect.

Darry Strickland is a Senior History major from Decatur, GA.

vilifying us, we thought we'd take an entirely different approach (since we couldn’t reply) and publish a RETROSPECTIVE!!!! Yes, that
hallowed literary convention known for its ability to leap tall word requirements in a single bound. So useful is the
form, that you may not read another original word after this paragraph ends. But you probably will. So on with
the show . . . and we’ll start with Senator Helms. (Unfortunately, we can’t find a copy of that article,
so you’ll just have to relive that joy in your memory.) It took us until Birk 7 to state what
should already have been obvious about our column. “Warning: The Polemicist General has determined that the following column violates scholastically
accepted politically correct thought. Abandon hope, all ye who enter . . . this isn’t PC.” And don’t think we
didn’t take a little flak now and then. Even in the good old days (you know, the past ones your
grandparents lived in, as opposed to the bad old days in which you currently live) we weren’t afraid of criticism.
The stated purpose of this column was to provoke thought, but that didn’t stop us from throwing in mindless humor
once in a while: “Be that word our sign of parting, babe or fiend!” I shrieked, upstarting— “Get thee back
into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore! Leave no black page as a token of that lie thy soul
hath spoken! Leave my peaceful quiet unbroken—quit thy face from out my door! Take thy beak from out my heart,
and take thy trash from off my floor, Quoth the womyn, “Sexist pig.” And, our favorite: "The Davidsonian is a
forum for opinions right or wrong. We’re right and you’re wrong. Simple.” By the way, see ya’ next year.

students, right?” “No. It is for the whole college community. I feel that as an administrator, I must be able
to make the rules.” “Don’t you think that those policies should be able to be reviewed by those who you
represent and by those who you work for?” “Yes, but I feel strongly about this issue and do not feel
it restricts anyone’s rights.” “Are you saying that you would be willing to lose your job over something as absurd
as your no hats policy in the weight room?” I asked. “Yes,” said Terry, “I guess I would, if that’s
what it comes down to.”

Walter Wray is a Senior from Chevy Chase, MD.
