“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXII MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1991 NUMBER 19

Davidson Hosts Dean Rusk Environmental Conference

By Jay Chaudhuri

“Don’t go into the mainstream of life, and instead find the mysteries of life.” Those were the words U.S. Senator
Wyche Fowler ‘62 of Georgia recalled as a student from professor emeritus George Abernethy during the opening address for the
Dean Rusk conference entitled, “Towards A Healthy Global Environment.”

Indeed, Fowler said advice from Abernathy and other professors at Davidson have had a profound impact on him as Senator.
“It [Davidson] is an underpinning that plays an important role in making public policy,” said Fowler.

A major aspect of Fowler’s public policy as Senator focuses on the environment, the topic of his address last Monday
night in Chambers Gallery. Fowler began by stating that almost a year ago the country felt it had “crossed the
Rubicon” due to glasnost, the end of the Cold War, and the fall of the Berlin Wall. Then suddenly, Americans
learned that the government had only $100 million for environment policies. “The country, I seriously believe, never felt such environmental
concerns,”

See "Fowler" on page 4

Faculty Executive Committee Warns Fraternities

By Sean Lind

In a February 28th letter to the Presidents of Patterson Court Fraternities, the Faculty Executive Committee expressed concern about this
year’s seemingly overzealous pledge activities. The letter was, in effect, a warning that if fraternities do not tone down their
pledging and pursue a more responsible course, administrative action might have to be taken.

The letter expressed a concern over “what seems to be an overemphasis on pledge activities which is detrimental to the
principal purpose for you, your members, and your pledges being at Davidson.” The letter also states “It is our understanding
that the CCRL is presently discussing both the alcohol policy of the PCC and the issue of weekday parties... We
expect the most serious cooperation of the fraternities and the eating clubs with the Dean of Students and the CCRL
in all these matters.”

“We cannot emphasize too strongly that we do not expect pledge activities to infringe in any way upon the academic
life of this college or the academic performance of pledges.”

By Ross Sloop

Dr. Holmes Rolston III, a 1953 graduate of Davidson, spoke Thursday morning as part of the NCNB/Dean Rusk environmental awareness
conference. Dr. Rolston now teaches philosophy at Colorado State University and has written five critically acclaimed books and about 50
articles on environmental issues.

Dr. Rolston combines philosophical inquiry with his concern for the environment to establish a new way for individuals to view
the Earth. Just as people accept certain human ethics, he feels that people today must embrace the notion of an
“Earth ethic.” He feels that people need to view themselves and others as mutual residents of the Earth rather than
members of an individual nation or race.

See "Rolston" on page 4

KA pledge trainer James Mason considers the warning "unnecessary. Seeing a guy in a bunny outfit in class is not
going to change my grade from a B+ to a B, but to appease the faculty, I'll be happy to
slow down the activities."

SAE President Bob Dixon stated, “We’re trying to improve things through fraternities and through the PCC.”

Russ Tisinger, KA Secretary, said, “Pledge activities shouldn’t be brought up the hill. I don't support anything that infringes upon
the academic life of the College."

Investigative Report

By Kathryn Strickland

Close to 1 a.m. in a graveyard off campus, a Davidson student nervously confided to me, “I feel like I’m
talking about a CIA plot instead of a relationship.” For two years this female student has dated another woman. Few
people - not even her roommate - know about her lesbian relationship. The student explained how she met her girlfriend,
a recentDavidson graduate, during her sophomore year: “She intrigued me. When I found out she was a lesbian, she scared
me. Then it struck me how lonely she must be here... eventually I overcame my fear and discovered a comical,
hilarious person.” After her girlfriend graduated, the student felt alone on campus. She believed, “I am so different no one
can understand me.” Every day in the Union Cafe or at a Patterson Court party, she heard someone call someone
else a fag or a homo. Because she preferred people to view her as a person rather than stigmatize her
as a “dyke,” the student did not confide in anyone. She felt guilty for lying to her friends. “No one
knew who I was. No one heard me say, ‘Oh my God, I might be gay.’” As a senior consumed
with issues other than her sexuality, the student is now amused by people’s misconceptions. “I think it’s funny that people
actually believe all lesbians are scary butch bitches as opposed to attractive and feminine women... I think it would not
only surprise but also educate people to know that I am a normal student integrated and active on campus.” Despite
her good humor, the student acknowledged that “Davidson has a repressive atmosphere.” Of the top 25 liberal arts schools ranked
in the 1990 U.S. News and World Report College Survey, Davidson and Washington and Lee are the only two schools
which offer neither an organization for gay and lesbian students.

See "Homosexuality" on page 4

Many prospectives took their first look at the campus this weekend.

Prospectives Visit for Annual SGA Weekend
By Sean Lind

This past weekend, Davidson held its annual SGA Weekend, a program run by the student government in cooperation with Admissions,
designed to provide prospective students with the opportunity to visit and experience Davidson. Eighty-two prospectives from all over the country
were scheduled to come to Davidson for the weekend. Barbara Bixby, Admissions Counselor and coordinator of the weekend’s festivities, said
the program was designed to “give prospectives a complete picture of the overall Davidson experience, including activities at the Union
as well as Patterson Court.” Prospectives were also encouraged to attend two classes on Friday to get a glimpse of
academic life, Bixby said. Kristi Kessler, President of Davidson Ambassadors and also a coordinator of the weekend, added that the
program “hopefully will help students who haven’t narrowed down their choices choose Davidson.”

The weekend, beginning with check-in on Thursday afternoon, offered prospectives a wide range of activities to choose from. On Thursday
night, prospectives were treated to dinner on Patterson Court, and then presented with a “Davidson Overview” in Perkins Auditorium. Thursday
night featured International Night, a People Hunt, and Comedy Club. On Friday, prospectives could attend classes, take tours of the
campus, hear about “Life at Davidson,” and go to FAC on the Union Patio. Friday night featured a reception at
the Baker Sports Complex, a formal Banquet, a concert in the 900 Room, and a Midnight Breakfast. Some prospective students
later enjoyed the parties on Patterson Court. On Saturday, visitors were treated to brunch at Vail Commons, and departure was
at 11 a.m. Amanda Lesesne, a prospective from Atlanta, GA, summed up the purpose of the weekend, saying, “I heard
that this weekend made people want to go to Davidson.”

INSIDE

News
Dr. Palmer Named To New Professorship. See Page 2.
Alumni Working To Help The Homeless. See Page 3.

Opinions
Beyond Birkenstockers Expose Sex Scandal. See Page 7.
Kelly Crews Urges Women to Get Naked Too. See Page 7.

Campus Living
Binns Bashes The Cure's Latest Release. See Page 9.
Mullins Tells of Semester in France. See Page 10.

Sports
Baseball Versus Lafayette. See Page 13.
Track Action Report. See Page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036
