Che Davidsonian
"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991 NUMBER 2

Davidson Builds New Town Hall
By Tom Koonce

Over the summer, construction was finally finished on Davidson’s new Town Hall. The building is approximately 17,000 square feet in
size and is located on Main Street in the same area as the old town building.

According to Davidson Mayor Russell Knox, the decision to build a new Town Hall was made about five years ago.
Knox said simply, “We had outgrown the old building.” Consultants were brought in who determined that it was more feasible
to tear down the old Town Hall and build a new one instead of adding onto the old building. The
new building was financed by selling surplus land that the town owned on Lake Norman. Knox said that this land
was being kept until the appropriate time came, and building a new Town Hall was decided to be the best
use of the money made from selling the land.

The new Town Hall houses the Davidson fire department on the lower level and the police department. Other services in
the new building include space for community activities and the office of the Director of Parks and Recreation. The Town
Hall also contains a large board room with space for up to 140 people.

Knox said that there was minimal opposition from citizens about the new hall being built and the design chosen but,
“Overall, we have been showing people through the building.” In talking about the design, Knox said that a lot of
factors were taken into consideration including the college, the walking downtown mall, and the future arts building. Knox commented that
he and others believed that the building tied in well with the architecture of the college.

Dennis Hall of Helper and Hall

Photo by Holt Hathaway
Members of the class of 1995 prepare to race in the annual freshman regatta, held Saturday.

Third West Claims Victory in 91 Regatta
By Tom Price

The 1991 Freshman Regatta was held this past Saturday at the Davidson Lake Campus. The regatta, which has become a
traditional part of the Freshman orientation, challenges Freshman halls to build a seaworthy vessel on a budget of $10. After
assembling a suitable raft, four members of each hall climb aboard and do their best to race their craft. Although
there was a great variety in boat designs, the most common materials used were empty beer kegs, inner tubes, plywood,
and that quick-fix miracle, duct tape.

The men of Third West claimed the title this year on board their sleek, stylish blue tarp. Duct tape, of
course, was used to seal the ends of this canoe-like vessel. After everyone dragged their crafts from the now-muddy water,
the competition moved to the dry land of the peninsula. “Tug-of-war” and “egg toss” were the next activities. Despite the
rope burns and egg-splattered shirts, everyone seemed to enjoy the festivities.was the chief architect of the new building. The new
Town Hall gives Davidson better control of its fire department. In the past, fire vehicles had to be parked at
various places around town. In the new building, all fire department vehicles can be parked at the same location. Knox
summed up his feelings about the new building, “I think that it meets our current needs and anticipates the future.”
See "Town Hall" on page 2. Photo by Holt Hathaway

Explosive Chemical Removed From Lab
By David Thompson

From approximately 9:30 AM until 12:00 noon on Saturday, August 24, members of the Davidson police department restricted access to
a section of Concord Road and instructed local residents to evacuate their homes while employees of the Advanced Environmental Transfer
Corporation (AETC) removed a volatile chemical from the Martin Chemical Laboratory. Public Safety director Ray Thrower, in accordance with standard
procedures, cleared a 500-foot radius while AETC employees neutralized the chemical by adding distilled water and removed it from the
building. The E. H. Little Library, Chambers Building, the College Union, and the Charles A. Dana Science Building were also
evacuated.

Ray Liguori, a safety inspector hired by the college, discovered nearly two kilograms of crystallized picric acid during a quarterly
inspection Friday afternoon. Picric acid is used as an “intermediate” in the creation of chemical compounds, according to Davidson College
spokesman Bill Giduz. Although perfectly safe in a liquid state, picric acid becomes highly explosive once it crystallizes. Mitch Barber,
a representative of AETC, said of the chemical’s explosive potential that “about a pound would tear apart a Cadillac.” He
said that picric acid is known as a Category I explosive. Out of three categories, Category I is the least
dangerous.

In order to neutralize the chemical, AETC technicians had to remove caps from all seven bottles with a special machine.
This task was among the most dangerous steps in the procedure because the acid can be exploded with even minor
friction. Safely removed from the Martin Laboratory, the seven 250-gram bottles of acid will be taken to Creedmore, NC, where
the AETC company is headquartered. Once they attain a permit to transport the chemical, they will take it to the
Thermalkem Corporation for incineration.

The chemical had apparently been sitting on a shelf for about twenty years without having been noticed before Friday. A
similar incident recently at Central Piedmont Community College in Charlotte alerted safety inspectors to the danger of the chemical’s presence.
Until recently, schools and colleges have generally purchased their chemicals in bulk amounts, and surpluses can sit unused for a
long time.

Please see "Chemical" on page 2.

INSIDE
NEWS
Town speed limits to be more rigidly enforced. Page 2.
ROTC scholarships awarded. Page 3.

OPINIONS
Anthony Foxx on South Africa. Page 5.
The return of Beyond Birkenstock. Page 6.
Andrew Spainhour on freshman idealism. Page 9.

DAVIDSON ARTS
Hoveland reviews Widespread Panic's latest effort. Page 7.

CAMPUS LIVING
Marc Overcash with Davidson history.

SPORTS
New coaches arrive. Page 11.

Davidson, NC 28036. First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1
