4 s

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

NEWS

WALT

Continued from page 1.

bring back a student-run FM station. That is not an easy undertaking. In order to make the FM station a reality, the people at WALT must obtain a license from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). First, usually before even contacting the FCC, the prospective station must pay for a frequency search to determine if an open frequency exists.

If there is one open, an application must then be registered with the FCC. The application process is so technical it usually requires the services of a lawyer to guarantee that the application has been completed correctly. According to Towle, if there are any problems with applications, the FCC refuses to consider the application.

New Rule

Continued from page 1

ways in that it keeps freshmen from being divided and keeps houses from over-rushing.

Powell Spears, president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, thinks that this regulation will be good in that sophomores can interact more with upperclassmen instead of worrying about rushing freshmen as they have in years past.

The FCC has also gradually eliminated smaller power levels at which stations can broadcast, says Towle, and he fears the 500-watt level, at which WALT has found a frequency, will be next to go.

Not everyone believes the station is such a grand idea, however. Dean of Students Will Terry believes that there is not a strong need for both the emerging Davidson College Television (DCTV) and a radio station.

Towle, on the other hand, believes that the students would widely support and listen to an FM station on campus. “I think student support is overwhelming. I’ve just been inundated with throngs of people that want to help in some capacity and given our situation I’ve been forced to say that until the trustees give the go-ahead there’s nothing to do but see if they’ll sit and listen to our case.”

This new policy went into effect last Monday. The Patterson Court presidents will handle house violations of this regulation and the Dean of Students will handle penalties committed by freshmen.

There's one sure way to see your future go up in smoke. Last year alone, America’s businesses lost more than $60 billion to drugs. So this year, most of the Fortune 500 will be administering drug tests. If you fail the test, you're out of a job. The message is simple. Doing drugs could blow your whole education.

Partnership for a Drug-Free America

SAVINGS WORTH CHEERING ABOUT FROM DOMINO'S PIZZA

Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving

Call Us!
Shops on the Green

Limited time only.

DOMINO'S PIZZA

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Cash value 1/20¢

IT’S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA

Hours: 11am-12am Mon-Thurs.
11am-1am Fri. & Sat.
12pm-12am Sun.

Don't miss out at Davidson

Formerly known as the YSSC, will be having a volunteer drive on Monday, Sept. 2 at 7:00 pm in the Morrison Room of the College Union.

Deadline for SGA Election Sign Ups

For Freshman and Independent Senators

5:00 pm Tuesday, Sept. 3 in the Dean of Students Office

SGA Elections will be Tuesday, September 10, 1991

House Elections will vary for each house. Check at your house for details.