10 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

The Incredible E F Well-Being Weightlifting
By Marlo Cobb

Workout routines differ incredibly among weightlifters. It may take three months before you begin to find out what works for you. Starting out, do pushups, pull-ups, and crunches. That’s all. No weights. Give your body time to get accustomed to the movements and gain some muscle before hitting it with the heavy stuff. Remember that any exercise is going to be harder starting out, even if you have been serious about it before and have simply taken time off. The secondary, or peripheral muscles which are not directly worked will get stronger rather quickly, and begin to help out the muscles they’re supposed to. After the first 6 weeks, you will see a lot of improvement. This is when weightlifting becomes disillusioning, because noticeable results decrease as you get in better shape. Keep your exercise routine changing—enough so that you do not have time to really get “used to” an exercise. Warm up properly. For example, if you’re going running one day, afterwards go into the weight room and only work on legs; they’ll be very warmed up already.

The average weightlifter knows most of the basics: to bulk up, use few repetitions (“reps”) with heavy weight. To tone up, use many reps with light weight. The speed at which weight can be advanced will vary from person to person. Sometimes changes in weight will be days apart, and sometimes weeks. You will be weaker before you are stronger; weightlifting first tears down thin layers of muscle, allowing other layers of muscle to be built. Remember, you need to rest. There is no need to work out as many as three times a week, especially here at Davidson. Anyone will need one day of rest between one abs (or “abdominals”) or leg workout, and some people need two days of rest before concentrating on the same muscle groups again. Alternate weight room workouts with other sports like basketball, racquetball, tennis... Not only does incorporating aerobic exercise alleviate boredom, but it is necessary, along with proper diet, if you really want to see results. A serious weightlifter’s diet consists of 60% carbohydrates, 30% protein, and only 10% fat. Stock up on fruits and vegetables. You will progress much slower without eating right and attending to your cardiovascular system. And “love handles,” usually due to genetics, are reduced more through aerobic exercise than through lifting.

During breaks, watch out. It is easy to overeat or fall out of your routine. Always try to maintain some kind of regularity in sleeping and eating patterns, and keep up physical activity on a daily basis, even if it’s only an after-dinner walk. One of my sources said, “The average weightlifter is really lazy.” According to him, men lift weights for one of two reasons: either they are athletes, in which case they are building up specific muscles required for their sport, or they want to look good. The athletes, he says, tend to stick to the basic squats and bench press, doing not much more than the essentials for their sport. Those who just want to look good usually focus their attention on the chest, arms, and shoulders, and forget about working their legs. They need to realize how abnormal this will make them look later on; they may find themselves with a huge upper body and spindly legs, or with large chest and shoulder muscles, and hardly any arm mass at all.

Both of my sources agreed that, although many more men tend to lift weights than women, those women who do are “much more devoted, know what they are doing and are diligent about it” than the guys. They also flex less. While one guy I talked with felt that seeing and being impressed by another’s build can motivate you to get in there and work, yourself, and that flexing helps you to build confidence and get into the atmosphere of the weight room, another source points out that guys in the weight room tend to “spend a lot more time talking to each other, staring in the mirror, and flexing than putting up any kind of weight.” “People should definitely know a lot more about lifting weights than they do,” says one. There are lots of details about each exercise that are worth remembering. For example, in standing curls with a barbell, holding it towards your thumb creates much better leverage than holding it towards...

Learn To Become A (Snort!) Changer Of Tires
By Ken Lane

It’s just you and the highway. You’re cruising along the wide open road at a ripe 76 mph, feeling the monotony of your journey set in when... Blam! There goes a tire. After the melodrama of getting the car safely off the road intact and the help sign right side up, you sigh a breath of relief. But, you sigh too soon! After 20 minutes of learning that people generally don’t stop to help anyone who is in trouble on highways (especially someone who looks like you) unless they are a recently escaped from prison, one-eyed rhino-man straight out of The Silence of the Lambs. Your choices: (1) live in the car forever, (2) wait until rhino-man stops and tries to introduce you to his good friend the serrated, salt-smeared razor-blade, (3) take up long distance hiking, or (4) (God forbid) change the tire yourself. Anyone who already knows how to change a tire can snort-laugh, flex his or her feminine or masculine muscles and go rebuild a carburetor blindfolded.

...tell you a very important piece of information. Where to place the jack so that your car and the odd limb that happens to be under the car won’t be destroyed. If one or two tons of car falls suddenly you will be “hatin’ life in a big way.” Positioning the jack is VERY important. It generally goes, as you would expect, near the flat, but exactly where varies from car to car. Also for safety, the car should be reasonably level (again to circumvent the “destroyed car/limb problem”). Make SURE your emergency brake is ON, very on. If not you will be screwed, very screwed. Now open your trunk and find those two mystical pieces of equipment: the tire iron and the jack (angels sing). Jacks come in a variety of shapes and sizes, and should be described in your Car Owner’s Manual. A common one for smaller cars is a nifty, compact, screw thread jack. Use your common sense about which end is up...Figure out how to fit them together so they will lift your car. Huff and puff away at that jack until the tire just clears the ground and then LOWER it back down an inch or so. You are trying to make sure the tire doesn’t spin and the car doesn’t fall (“car/limb problem”) while you violently yank on the nuts holding your tire on. The tire iron is generally a bent rod with a cup on one end that contains the impression of a hexagonal lug nut, OR a huge, heavy plus sign. Now, if you have a hub cap, remove it. Generally, they yank off with a little sweat, but some come off only with a special key (PRAY that it is in your trunk or glove compartment). The exposed lug nuts are the several hexagonal objects that hold your tire in place and are your next point of attack. Fit the tire iron over one of the nuts and try to unscrew them, counter-clockwise. Envision removing a peanut butter jar lid to the end opposite. My hand on the plus-shaped kind for extra leverage. Remembering to use your foot may mean the difference between a failed heroic effort and success. Try it. If---no, when!---you succeed, ONLY LOOSEN each of the lug nuts. Next, crank that jack up enough so you can imagine getting the tire to slide off easily. Remove the lug nuts the rest of the way using the tire iron and/or fingers. Remove that tire. As you beam sweatily and triumphantly at the car, realize that if someone jumps into or jokingly shakes the car, the “car/limb problem” is much more likely to occur now. Check to make sure that jack is VERTICAL. If it slips, you again will be “hatin’ life in a big way.” Now, put your spare on. Most new cars have a smaller spare tire specially designed to force you to buy lots of tires and mostly to annoy you, but they will get you to the next service station. Don’t drive very far on one of these! They generally self-destruct so that you will have to buy a new spare AND a full-sized tire (insidious rubber company plot?). Anyhow, slide your new tire on (normal size or small/annoying size) and spin those lug nuts back on by hand.

Lower the jack until the tire touches the ground again and yank them all TIGHT. If your lug nuts are loose or still on the ground when you drive off, it will be time to pay for BIG repairs really soon. Hopefully, you have a drivable car now. Remember as you drive off into the sunset that if you have an evil and annoying micro-spare, you should drive straight to a service station (and wait overnight if necessary) unless you don’t mind risking limb and car to drive on. To review, you must (1) use the correct jack lifting position, (2) put on the emergency brake, (3) not shake the car when it is up, and (4) watch that jack. Actually, the most important thing to do while you change your tire is think. Mindlessly following instructions can lead to disaster. Look at the car and jack often. Is it leaning, shifting, or bending? Think ahead. Imagine what will happen as a result of each action. (Whoops, I guess I forgot the lug nuts.)

First, find the flat. That’s easy. Now, open your glove compartment and pull out that all-important Car Owner’s Manual. It will figure out the correct direction to pull (it is very frustrating to yank on the lug nuts the wrong way for 20 minutes). Try pulling a little to get a feel for them. I always put my foot on the part of the tire iron closest to the cup as a pivot OR on the plus-shaped kind for extra leverage. Remembering to use your foot may mean the difference between a failed heroic effort and success. Try it. If---no, when!---you succeed, ONLY LOOSEN each of the lug nuts. Next, crank that jack up enough so you can imagine getting the tire to slide off easily. Remove the lug nuts the rest of the way using the tire iron and/or fingers. Remove that tire. As you beam sweatily and triumphantly at the car, realize that if someone jumps into or jokingly shakes the car, the “car/limb problem” is much more likely to occur now. Check to make sure that jack is VERTICAL. If it slips, you again will be “hatin’ life in a big way.” Now, put your spare on. Most new cars have a smaller spare tire specially designed to force you to buy lots of tires and mostly to annoy you, but they will get you to the next service station. Don’t drive very far on one of these! They generally self-destruct so that you will have to buy a new spare AND a full-sized tire (insidious rubber company plot?). Anyhow, slide your new tire on (normal size or small/annoying size) and spin those lug nuts back on by hand.

Lower the jack until the tire touches the ground again and yank them all TIGHT. If your lug nuts are loose or still on the ground when you drive off, it will be time to pay for BIG repairs really soon. Hopefully, you have a drivable car now. Remember as you drive off into the sunset that if you have an evil and annoying micro-spare, you should drive straight to a service station (and wait overnight if necessary) unless you don’t mind risking limb and car to drive on. To review, you must (1) use the correct jack lifting position, (2) put on the emergency brake, (3) not shake the car when it is up, and (4) watch that jack. Actually, the most important thing to do while you change your tire is think. Mindlessly following instructions can lead to disaster. Look at the car and jack often. Is it leaning, shifting, or bending? Think ahead. Imagine what will happen as a result of each action. (Whoops, I guess I forgot the lug nuts.)

Also, don’t be daunted. Half of what is described here is worst-case scenario. If you think, think ahead, and just be careful; everything will work out fine, and you will be snort-laughing with the rest of the fabled Changers of Tires.

The mere setting of the bar in your hand makes a huge difference in the way this exercise affects you. Even twisting your head a certain way affects the rest of your body. On the bench press, holding your hands close together on the bar works an entirely different set of muscles than holding them shoulder-width apart. Also, different body types perform the same exercise with varied difficulty. For example, it is easier for a stocky person to do deeper squats than a lanky one due to shorter legs. Lanky people have better leverage on other exercises, however. Most people don’t even need a weight belt, but they should know what it’s for if they do wear one. During heavy squats, a weight belt forces you to use your legs and not your back to lift, but watching your posture will take care of this problem in other situations. Don’t arch on the bench -- always keep your lower back down. When curling, never throw your hips forward to lift the weights. Ask around: In the weight room, people are almost always willing to answer your questions. It gives them confidence, and helps you out in the long run.

Anyone who is still interested, read on.

To finish up, Wilson got a wedge of Mississippi Mud Pie, which he said was passable. I ordered a slice of Chocolate Cheesecake which turned out to be pretty good. The service was fine up until this point when they totally forgot to ask if we wanted coffee. Other than that, everything was extremely enjoyable. The comfortable, family atmosphere and ocean fare remind one of a vacation at the beach. The menu has something for everyone, from hamburgers and steak to a variety of fresh seafood. The prices were reasonable for seafood, ranging from a few dollars for a sandwich to $24.95 for the steak and lobster. Our entrees were in the ten to fifteen dollar range and the total bill was about forty dollars. The building is brand new and has a large room for catering large parties. For information or reservations, call 663-4242. On a scale of one to five stars, one being McDonald’s and Tavern on the Green as five, we rate Big Daddy’s Restaurant and Oyster Bar 3¾ stars.