THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991

Davidson Arts

Get Yourself Ready For The Davidson Arts Festival

By Will Montgomery

On the Saturday before exams when you have finished your third twenty-page paper and haven’t yet looked at your notes, the Davidson Arts Festival will usurp your schedule with serious fun. Serious fun is the kind to indulge in when you are busy but looking for distractions.

We, the organizers of the Davidson Arts Festival, are telling you this now, two and a half months in advance, for several reasons. Go ahead and start studying for exams now so you will have time to come. More importantly, all you artist types out there listen up: the Davidson Arts Festival wants you.

We intend to create a multimedia festival occasion. Visual artists from the Davidson community and student artists will display their works throughout the Student Union. This includes painting, sculpture, drawing, folk art, and whatever else may arise. All work will be for sale.

Student musicians are invited to perform in the 900 Room. The Reddick\Stone\Cochran guitar wizards will most likely jam but classical or jazz musicians are equally welcome. To incorporate performance art we hope to alternate theatre with music. One-act plays, short skits, even improvisational sketches or mime is possible. The Davidson Dance Troupe is invited to perform as well.

Inside Art

The gist of this festival is to gather together the diverse talent hidden among students and the Davidson community for an afternoon of relaxation and celebration. Coming just before the final exam period, the Festival should allow folks to pause and reflect on the community around them and the semester behind them.

If you are interested in this festival and wish to participate, especially if you are a Theatre, Art, or Music major, a local artist, a faculty member with a unique talent, or just have ideas please call Will Montgomery at 896-0953, Stewart Lathan at 896-6813 or Ruth Pittard at the Union, 896-2140.

Untitled By Lee Pennington

(Matt Bumstead: Whistlin' Dixie)

Just nine days away; this week we’ll continue examining the various categories, looking for possible winners while keeping in mind all the factors that will be a part of the panel’s decision. So, let’s jump right into it!

Female Vocalist: Patty Loveless, Kathy Mattea, Reba McEntire, Lorrie Morgan, Tanya Tucker. Mattea, the winner for the last two years, has had little success on the radio and has only released three songs since she won last year. Patty Loveless is a favorite of mine, and her album On Down the Line is excellent. But this year has belonged to Reba—what a comeback she has staged. Many thought that Reba’s period of dominance had quietly come to a close; but, in the last year, she has silenced critics as well as her competitors. Her four big hit singles (“Rumor Has It”, “Fancy”) should make this one a runaway.

Who will: Reba

Sombreros By Ted Richardson.

CMA's 1 Week Away: Will All the "Should's" Win?

The CMA Awards are now just nine days away; this week we’ll continue examining the various categories, looking for possible winners while keeping in mind all the factors that will be a part of the panel’s decision. So, let’s jump right into it!

Female Vocalist: Patty Loveless, Kathy Mattea, Reba McEntire, Lorrie Morgan, Tanya Tucker. Mattea, the winner for the last two years, has had little success on the radio and has only released three songs since she won last year. Patty Loveless is a favorite of mine, and her album On Down the Line is excellent. But this year has belonged to Reba—what a comeback she has staged. Many thought that Reba’s period of dominance had quietly come to a close; but, in the last year, she has silenced critics as well as her competitors. Her four big hit singles (“Rumor Has It”, “Fancy”) should make this one a runaway.

Who will: Reba

The Judds (no one has been that good). Who will: The Judds

Song of the Year: (Let’s get this straight... this award is for songwriting, great lines, and great lyrics. Single of the Year goes to the best-recorded, great-sounding song, well-performed. I’ll tell you here who sang these songs; the writers’ names will mean little to you. Jackson co-wrote both of his, and Gill co-wrote his). “Don’t Rock The Jukebox”, Alan Jackson; “Friends in Low Places”, Garth Brooks; “Here in the Real World”, Alan Jackson; “The Dance”, Garth Brooks; “When I Call Your Name”, Vince Gill. I don’t know how it happens that songs or acts that were nominated or won last year get in this year’s awards, but that is the case with three of these songs (“Real World”, “The Dance”—nominated for and won best video, and “When I Call”—which won best single). With that in mind, I am disappointed in several of these.

Who will: The two he sang it), would be following the ACM, and would be what everyone expects.