“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991 NUMBER 4

Project Life Begins Second Drive For Marrow Donors

By Walter Price

With a goal of 500 participants, the Project Life Committee at Davidson is preparing for its second bone marrow drive. The committee plans to target members of the class of 1995 to meet this year’s goal. According to committee member Catherine Turner, the group hopes to hold this year’s testing “sometime before Thanksgiving.” Before the testing can occur, close to $30,000 has to be raised to pay for the process. This money pays for the $60 tests that have to be given to each participant. Presently, the committee is soliciting donations from the Davidson College community, as well as outside sources, to finance the marrow testing. Fundraising plans by the committee include setting up booths at Alumni and Parents Weekends and auctions sponsored by Rusk and PiKA. According to Turner, the group also hopes to pursue more corporate donations, an outlet that was not pursued enough in last year’s drive.

The Project Life Committee formed last year following the experiences of Davidson junior David Lindsay (see accompanying story). Freshman year, Lindsay went through a bone marrow transplant to treat his leukemia. Spurred by his ordeal, Lindsay and several other Davidson students formed a group to test the college community and enter them into the national registry for potential bone marrow donors. Last year, working with an anonymous matching donor, fundraisers, and solicitation of the college community, the committee was able to raise the $30,000 needed to test 476 people. The 476 participants in the testing were the most among North Carolina Bone Marrow Donor Chapters. This year, the group’s goal is to test 500 individuals to enroll in the bone marrow registry.

The testing process involves the drawing of three tablespoons of blood from each potential donor. The blood is then sent to Red Cross to be tested and entered into the registry. According to Turner, if a blood specimen comes back as a potential match, the potential donor undergoes a second blood sampling. In last year’s drive, 30 participants went this far in the process, with the odds of an individual getting this far at 1:20,000. Turner also noted that one student has advanced to the final testing stage and should hear within ten weeks whether or not he/she will be a donor. The testing that is done by the Red Cross involves the drawing of a little blood to test for an individual’s human leukocyte antigen (HLA). Since HLA types vary greatly, there is a need to have a large registry of potential donors.

Senior Gail Ruff, along with several other members of the conservative Actors Against Animation activist group, protested the Union's showing of Walt Disney’s Fantasia last week. The group objects to the film on the grounds that the "Sorcerer's Apprentice" sequence advocates the wasteful use of water, the "Hippo" sequence mocks overweight people, and that the film is generally riddled with occult figures.

— Photo By Mary McNeill

One Student's Personal Fight With Leukemia

Editor's Note: The following article originally ran in The Davidsonian last fall. In order to garner student support for Project Life, we have decided to publish the piece again in this issue.

By David Lindsay

Why me? This question is often asked in the face of life’s adversity. Life can seem unfair in so many ways—innocent people are killed by drunk drivers, an unlucky bystander gets shot by a stray bullet, a woman gets brutally raped, young children suffer from deadly diseases, and the list goes on... I have discovered that when life issues forth a difficult challenge, the best course to take is to meet that challenge head-on and at full speed. As Theodore Roosevelt once said, “Don’t foul, don’t flinch—hit the line hard.”

My senior year of high school was rolling along quite smoothly at good ol’ West Charlotte that winter of 1988. I had somehow finally finished my “early decision” application to Davidson. I was already mired in the dreaded “senior slump.” I was enjoying my last year of school with the typical zest and excitement that anyone would have. I was anxiously looking forward to my...Senior season of basketball hoping that my summer of running and practicing would earn me something better than another year of having that great front row seat on the bench. All the pieces of my life seemed to be neatly falling into place. Then, as they say, “the doo-doo hit the fan.” And, boy, when that doo-doo hit, it sure hit hard. I had begun to gradually notice that the level of my play at basketball practice had dropped. I couldn’t get my outside shots to fall, I had difficulty getting up and down the court every time, and my rim-shattering dunks weren’t quite as rim-shattering. (Okay, so I’ve never had a rim-shattering dunk except in my dreams.) Anyway, I blamed my decreased intensity on my nagging leg pains. My mother guessed that I had an iron deficiency, so the afternoon before our first game at East Mecklenburg, I stopped by the doctor’s office for what I thought would be a “routine five-minute visit.” That visit would turn into a year-long saga. The real nervous anxiety set in when my doctor repeated the blood tests for a third time. The look on his face when he entered the examining room was definitely one of “false confidence.” He sent me over to the local hospital for some more “routine” tests. By this time, I was on the verge of panicking. I remember sitting fearfully in the hospital chapel fervently praying that all would be all right. The doctor eventually appeared at the end of the hall and motioned for me to come into my father’s chaplain’s office. He sat down in front of me, looked me directly in the eyes, and said calmly, but firmly, those words I’ll likely never forget, “David, you have a form of leukemia.” I remember at that point I made a feeble attempt to make a joke, commenting that, “Gee, I guess I will miss the basketball game tonight.” Unfortunately, my fake smile could not hide the absolute absence of hope that I felt at that moment. The next four weeks that December were not exactly my ideal way of spending Christmas vacation. I underwent a rather grueling series of tests and chemotherapy. My body was literally bombed with medication after medication. Up until this point in my life, medicines had names like Sudafed and Robitussin, but now they had more ominous-sounding names like L-asparaginase, Cytoxin, methotrexate, and prednisone. At the end of this four-week barrage, I had achieved a disease-free state called remission. Over the next five months, I entered the hospital about every three weeks to receive continuous drips of chemotherapy for three or four days at a time. This medication was designed to...

See "Lindsay" on page 4.

New Women's Eating House Forum To Be Held Monday
By Tom Price

This evening at 8 pm, a forum will be held in the gallery of Chambers concerning the formation of a new eating house for women. After several years of informal discussion, a group of students have decided to attempt to create a new eating house for women. The women who have organized the forum have created a questionnaire which will be distributed to all the women at the meeting. Responses to the questions will be carefully studied by the Dean of Students Office, and any tangible moves toward the house’s creation will come only after significant interest is demonstrated. The women who are supporting the initiative...

See "Forum" on page 3.

...which freshmen could self-select this year. A coalition of women representing all three current women’s houses has brought the idea to the attention of the college. The Dean of Students Office and the Committee for Women’s Issues is sponsoring the forum. At this meeting, the feasibility of the project will be discussed and an effort will be made to gauge the interest among Davidson women.

INSIDE
Page 7. News: Pence Speaks on Medical Ethics.
Page 13. Opinions: Foxx & Ferguson are "Questionin’ That." Rude Notes returns under new management.
Page 6. Campus Living: Liz & Dair promote weightlifting. Save the Chattooga!
Page 13. Sports: Volleyball wins first home match. Swimming and diving preview.
Page 17. Davidson Arts: Bumstead Reviews Garth Brooks’ Latest Release. Black Film Festival in Charlotte.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036