THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991 13

Photo by Chris Lee
Davidson females walk in the dismal Davidson rain.

College Welcomes Several Professors This Semester
By Jeff Revis

There are several new additions to the Davidson faculty this semester. Along with various visiting professors, two full-time assistant professors have joined the college community, Religion Professor Lynn Poland and Sociology Professor Janet Shannon.

Dr. Poland received her A.B. from Bates and then moved on to the University of Chicago for her M.A. and Ph.D. in Religion. Her specialty is gender studies in religion. This semester, she will be teaching classes in the General Rubric Religion in Literature, Gender and Christianity, Autobiography in Religion, and a Senior Seminar in Religion. Next year, Dr. Poland will become a member of the Humanities Program.

A great fascination for and commitment to her field of study are exhibited in Dr. Poland. She attempts to convey this to her students through a heavy emphasis on discussion. She teaches students “ways of formulating questions and reading texts which are different from other disciplines.” She encourages her students to “be passionate about something” they enjoy and “not to be afraid of making mistakes.” Travel, fixing up old houses, and modern dance are some of the things that Dr. Poland enjoys doing in her spare time.

A welcome addition to the Sociology Department, Ms. Shannon received her B.S. from Saint Joseph’s and her M.A. and soon to be received (in March) Ph.D. from Temple University. She is currently working on her dissertation which explores a Black community outside of Philadelphia from 1790-1850. Her specialty is Pre-Civil War Communities in the North. She has classes in Urban Sociology, Race and Ethnicity, and independent studies which involve the role of black women at Davidson and interracial churches. On top of all this, Ms. Shannon is the mother of two. She enjoys collecting antiquities, knitting, and spending time with her children when not working on her dissertation.

She is very interested in “arousing the curiosity of her students.” A longtime student as well as a mother, Ms. Shannon is still very familiar with the student experience and feels that she “can empathize with students.” She tries to make her classes interesting by showing how much there is to see in the world and how “fascinating they are when viewed through a sociological perspective.” If anything, she would like to “develop an awareness” in those who take her classes. Her advice to students is to pursue the doctoral degree if possible. “Despite the hard work and pain,” she says, “the graduate process teaches self-discipline and is an accomplishment which is completely yours.” Besides enriching the lives of those who attain it, the degree is also becoming necessary in society. The motivation and enthusiasm of each teacher, coupled with their knowledge and ability, make them important additions to the Davidson faculty.

Joe Binns | Music Review

Allmans Offer Sweet Dreams
The Allman Brothers Band
Dreams
4 Compact Disc Compilation
Polydor

Guess what Joe B. got for Christmas? That’s right, Dreams and sweet ones at that. I’ve got four CDs loaded with tunes by the Allmans and Allmans spinoffs, i.e. The Gregg Allman Band, Dicky Betts and Great Southern, Allman and Woman, The 31st of February, The Second Coming, Hour Glass, and, of course, The Allman Joys. In addition, there are tunes from the solo efforts of Dicky, Gregg, and Duane.

The compilation gives me a chance to write favorably about one of my favorite bands after that hideously harsh review of their weak effort, Seven Turns. Without hesitation, I will call the compilation successful and well done. The three hundred minutes of music evoke every emotion their albums have with two exceptions. Neither could have been helped. The exhaustive disorientation and unfettered awe one feels after “Mountain Jam” is missing but if included it would’ve taken up half a disk (listen to side B of Ludlow Garage). Also left unmarked on the emotional checklist is the one felt upon first hearing the Allmans and this, of course, could not have been reproduced. But that arresting happy mellowness which soothingly envelops one is inescapable. You can’t shake it (as if you’d want to). When listening, it is present--regardless of whatever other Allman-induced sensations are controlling your body (which is, by the way, only a helpless receptor subject to the whims of every individual tune).

The only disappointments for me were the exclusion of “Please Call Home,” off Idlewild South, and Gregg’s soulful groaning therein, and the choice of the “Whipping Post” off At Fillmore East. It’s just too slow and short and I’ve heard that any “Post” from this past summer’s tour could smoke it. The high points on Dreams are too numerous to mention. Come by andwe’ll listen to a couple. But if you have the cash to lay out, believe me when I say that Santa did me extremely right.

Short Show Review
Allgood. New Year’s Eve. The Cotton Club in Atlanta

It’s too late to review Blues Traveler’s Johnston Gym performance on December 8th, but seeing as how you were all there, you all know how good it was. Extremely. But I saw a good one over the break. Allgood, who has graced our campus on several occasions, was blistering. They ran through a set of about fourteen songs, all good. No “Post,” no Wet Willie, but the closer, “Trilogy” > “Funky House,” took the sting off Widespread Panic’s first number. The criticism of Allgood is that if they go by a name so close to the Allmans’, and play Allmans covers and Allmans-sounding tunes, they need a pair of wizards playing guitar. I disagree with the charge that Clay and John aren’t scorching, that is. They proved their individual worth to the crowd at the Cotton Club lead after lead, and they are even better as a team. Corky and his pals are in the studio now, so look for the first Allgood album to be out in February.

Kongerz Boot O’the Week: Passaic, N.J. 11/24/78 Set 1

Tong Continued from Page 10

She attended college in Detroit at Marygrove before getting her M.A. at Catholic University, where she met a professor of Chinese philosophy, Paul Tong, with whom she fell in love. Together, they moved to Boulder, Colorado, where they married and she studied to teach high school German classes. She soon became pregnant, however, and was ineligible for teacher training. The Tongs moved again to Glassboro, New Jersey, where Tong commuted to Temple for her doctorate. While in Glassboro, Tong gave birth to two baby boys. While looking for work, Dr. Tong was offered a position in the Philosophy Department of Williams College. She accepted and also became its chair of Women’s Studies.

In the tenth year of her teaching position at Williams College, Tong’s husband died of a heart attack. Her husband’s death was a major reason for Tong’s decision to take a sabbatical to Davidson. She arrived in Davidson as a visiting professor for the Humanities program, planning to try teaching at the graduate level after the year ended. Davidson College persuaded her to stay by suggesting she work on the solidification of the Medical Humanities Program. “As much as I enjoy writing and research,” says Tong, “I still prefer teaching and that’s harder to indulge at a university level, so I accepted the offer to build the program with my colleagues Drs. Case, Stell, Williamson, Kimmel, and Maloney.” Tong loves “the spirit of community and service here,” and she feels that by teaching high-caliber students, she is “really contributing to the future leaders of America.”

Mental Continued from Page 10

The audience is not that stupid, Penny. Kasper, the Hollywood technician frequenting this film, is the “O Captain My Captain” technique. That is, the willful defiance of authority backdropped by a synthesized crescendo of electronic violins. When the hospital administrator refuses to pay money for further patient awakenings, Sayer’s nurse and chemist pals throw down.

Remember the final scene of Dead Poets Society. On the plus side, Robin Williams gives one of the most outstanding performances of this cinematic year. Williams continues to dazzle audiences with his versatility. He has evolved from a cartoon character (Popeye) and a Martian (Mork) into a brilliantly honed introverted research scientist. Robert de Niro also gives a spectacular performance, although it may be difficult for the viewer to accept that de Niro’s character is truly catatonic. Seeing de Niro stare seems almost comic. One expects at any moment for him to break out of his stare and to pull out a machine gun to gun down the enemies of the Family. Despite his stereotyped existence as an actor, however, he also delivers a solid acting performance.

All in all, everyone should probably enjoy this film simply because it delivers an important message in a sweet and loving way. The film ends on a similar bittersweet note to its predecessor Big and gives the viewer a warm, washy feeling inside. In the words of that great, omniscient critic of universal acclaim, Rex Reed, it is “the feel-good movie of the year.”

Hair Designer's Studio & Salon Supplies
CALL FOR APPOINTMENTS
Male or Female Haircut $5.00
OPEN FRI. 10-6 & SAT. 10-3
WALK-INS WELCOME
Children’s Haircut & Style $3.00
Permanent Wave $25.00
892-6982 or 892-7855
HWY. 115 (3 MILES N. OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE)