THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS ~ MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

Take Back The Night
Perspectives on Sexual Violence

Rape Can Happen Anywhere, at Any Time, To Anyone
By Heather Flint

I’m talking today to let you know that rape does not discriminate. It affects any class, any race, any age.
Any of you are potential victims of rape. You may have been raped or have friends who have been raped.
To the men in this audience - yes, you yourself can be raped, although that is rather uncommon. However, many
of you may experience the rape of a sister or a girlfriend. Rape affects you too.

I am a freshman here this year, and at age 17 I am one of the youngest students on campus.
But youth has not protected me from rape. A year and a half ago, on October 18th, 1989, I was
raped. At the time I was only 16. I was visiting Princeton University as a prospective on a weekend very
similar to our SGA weekend here. I was staying with my host, Deb, from Thursday evening until Saturday afternoon.

Thursday night I had a blast. Debbie took me to a small party at her boyfriend’s room. I danced and,
like most prospectives, I drank, but nothing bad came of it. I already had a decent tolerance from typical high
school parties and experimentation with alcohol, so I pretty well knew my limit. I met a lot of really nice
people - and I had my share of guys hit on me - typical of SGA weekends. However, I made
it very clear that I had a boyfriend, Jeff, who I had been seeing for a few months, and that
I had no desire to fool around behind his back. So Thursday night came and went as usual. I had
a terrific time, so I was psyched when Debbie, my host, told me that her boyfriend was having a larger
party Friday night and that I was invited.

Friday Debbie and I ate lunch with some other prospectives. At the far end of the table was a prospective
named Chris who, it turned out, went to a high school down the street from my own. We talked very
briefly and then Debbie and I left. That night Debbie and I went to the party at her boyfriend Rob’s
room. It was packed. Rob saw me, and since he was bartending he mixed me a drink. He was on
the other side of the room, so he had it passed over to me by a bunch of people. I
was dancing when Chris, the other prospective, saw me and came over to talk. He seemed like a nice guy
- very conservative, clean cut, went to a very preppy school, and lived nearby me. We talked for a little
bit when someone handed me a drink - I don’t know who - and since I was about done with
mine and knew two drinks were well within my tolerance, I took it.

The party began breaking up soon after, since all the alcohol had run out, so we were all leaving to
go to the eating houses. Deb had disappeared somewhere with Rob - I think to his room - so Chris
offered to walk with me to one of the eating houses where I was supposed to meet a friend. I
thought that sounded like a good idea - it wouldn’t be wise to walk across campus alone, and Chris seemed
like an okay person. On the way I decided I HAD to go to the bathroom, so we went into
one of the eating houses, where I was directed to the women’s bathroom upstairs. It was one of those really
fancy bathrooms, with a lounge outside the stalls to sit on. Chris waited there while I used the facilities. When
I came out Chris decided he had to go too, so I waited in the lounge while he went. While
he was in the bathroom I began to feel...

IF YOU ARE RAPED, NEVER TAKE A SHOWER, NO MATTER HOW DIRTY YOU FEEL, UNTIL YOU HAVE THE PROPER TESTS
DONE. IT WILL MAKE YOUR CASE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT IF YOU SHOWER.

Not Their Problem, Our Problem
By Peter Tavernise

Marty Klein: July ’85 Feeling Great “Stopping Rape: Women, Read This to Men”

“One million women were raped last year. That’s like every single woman in Detroit or Dallas. How are we --
how am I -- supposed to comprehend something as monstrous as the entire population of Dallas being ravaged?

“Men support the acceptability of rape whenever they don’t take women seriously. Men deny women their feelings (“Don’t be afraid”),
their experience (“Those stares shouldn’t bother you”) and their power (“You owe me sex”; “You say no but you really
mean yes”). And men support the existence of rape whenever they suggest that women “really want it.” A woman who
takes herself seriously won’t allow a man to ignore what matters to her. This goes beyond the issue of rape;
if you can’t count on him to be passionately concerned with something just because it’s important to you, how can
you trust him about anything?”

Richard Snowdon: Child Assault Prevention Project Handbook “Excuses, Excuses, Excuses”

“When we were boys, we didn’t have the power to stop lies and violence. But now that we are men,
we do. We have the power to tell the truth. We have the power to stand with boys who are
growing up now and help them defend their caring. We have the power to stop being “ordinary guys” and become
something much better: men with whom women and children can be safe.”

For me, the issue of awareness of sexual violence has become one of self-respect and of mutual respect in any
relationship between two people. For many years I had been conducting my life as unquestioningly as many of the men
we are now seeking to educate. I feel now that I had been living irresponsibly. I had bought the idea
of a “normal” way...That men and women conducted themselves in relationships—I think because I was not aware of the options.
I was unquestioning because I had never had a reason to question—and indeed never had anyone, male or female, old
or young, tell me the same thing: “I haven’t really told anyone about this but...” Through the tears of women
cherished would come the personal history of victimization and, I feel, entirely inappropriate feelings of guilt and shame. One woman
told me: “He raped me at gunpoint in high school. Not even my parents know. I almost committed suicide freshman
year. I still have nightmares every single night, oh but you get used to them...” Another said, “A man once
attacked me and tried to rape me on the baseball fields. I can’t feel safe anywhere now.” And another: “My
own husband, my own husband...” I realized I hardly knew five women who had not been victimized by male violence,
or at least, had not said anything about it yet. Then I found out even one of my roommates had
been sexually assaulted when he was a boy. I began to despair. I felt powerless. Worst of all to me
at the time: I saw myself and my own history as having possibly contributed to the perpetuation of a society
which condones sexual violence.

I became involved in rape awareness last year. I wanted to see that it became a policy of this college
to educate women on this campus of the existence of rape, and the men on this campus of their individual
responsibilities and potential. After all, I felt, the potential rewards of an equal relationship—one built on mutual respect—should obviously outweigh
any small “loss of power” men might risk from ending the subjugation of women. Most men do not know what
it is to live in fear, nor do they realize that for women, living in fear is a fact of
life. Most men also do not realize how much they contribute to that fear, and perpetuate it daily by their
unconsidered actions.

Many people who had been victimized—or who knew someone who had been victimized—joined the rape awareness effort, including quite a
few men, which I found heartening. I was proud that my sister was part of the effort, but had not
considered that she might be involved not only because many of our friends had been victimized, but because she herself
had. This revelation has been a difficult one. Here is my sister I love so dearly, telling me that she
had been victimized as a child—when we were little—and again in high school. As she spoke I felt so proud
of her for having the strength, determination, and caring for herself to confront the violence done to her and to
attempt to heal it.

Men, know that your life and the lives of those you love are likely to be affected if this problem
isn’t addressed. By us. We are the solution and we must strive to educate our brothers as to their personal
responsibilities and true potential. There is no excuse for rape. Women and children will continue to be victims until we
cease to be violent, assuming like immature brats that we should get whatever we want or that we can’t really
control our own impulses. Get serious. This is not their problem, it is our problem.

I cannot begin to tell what effect this will have on me ultimately, but I intend that the immediate...
