20 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW With NCAA Executive Director Dick Schultz

By Bruce Balestier

The following is a transcript from the question and answer session with Schultz after his speech last Friday.

Q: There’s a proposal underway that will be voted on this year that will allow players to assess their market value by negotiating with professional teams without the use of an agent. Of course, the agents are just going to be standing in the background. I don’t see the difference. How do you feel this proposal is going to go? Do you think they’re going to vote yes or no?

Schultz: I don’t know. It’s an interesting proposal. I think it came out of a compromise to a degree. The Professional Sports Liaison Committee had wanted to have legislation that would allow athletes to enter the professional draft without losing their eligibility and be able to return to school if they didn’t sign a contract. There were still enough concerns about that and the regulation was fairly loosely written that the NCAA Council felt that that should be held off for a while. I think that this legislation is really to kind of legitimize what is taking place right now. In some sports, ice hockey, for example, and baseball, players can be drafted. Keep in mind that the NCAA does not have draft rules. We don’t establish the draft rules. All we have are eligibility rules. The pros themselves establish the draft, whether they’re going to draft underclassmen, whether they’re going to draft only seniors, and our rules simply say that if you declare hardship, and voluntarily enter the draft, like you have to do in football and basketball, then you’re no longer eligible. Because in order to enter those drafts, the professionals make you sign an affidavit giving up your college eligibility. Whereas in the sports of hockey and baseball, you don’t apply for the draft. If you’re good enough, they just draft you, and that does not impact your eligibility, as long as you don’t hire an agent and as long as you don’t negotiate. I think really that rule is in there for those baseball players and the hockey players that are probably negotiating with their parents and maybe with the family lawyer and haven’t hired an agent (and, technically, they can’t even do that), but it’s one of those things that you can’t really enforce. So I think that legislation is really geared in that direction. Whether it'll pass or not, I don’t know. It’ll be a new departure for the membership.

Q: On an academic note, why do you think there has been so much resistance to the divulging of graduation rates, linked to scholarships?

Schultz: I’m not really sure. It is one that has never got much support, although I think it may be something that we’ll see in the future. What he’s talking about is, I assume you’re talking about a school would have so many initial scholarships and they would get new scholarships, new initial scholarships according to the number of athletes they graduated. I know Bobby Knight [basketball coach at Indiana] had talked about that... and I think it makes a lot of sense. I think one of the concerns by some were that in the sports of football and basketball you have a lot of transferring that goes on. Those athletes go to school and they want to be able to play, and if they’re not playing at that particular school they transfer to another school. They have to sit out; they usually fall out of that normal 5-year cycle for that school on graduation rate, even though they might graduate within five years of the other institution. I, personally, could support something like that. It would have to be well-devised, and I do think that there’s some potential for that in the future. But it’s something that I think has too many intangibles currently to catch on and get support.

Q: You indicated that the NCAA may be tightening academic standards for eligibility for college athletics. Now you have 700 SATs and 2.0 grade-point. Could you outline what the proposed standards are that are under consideration?

Schultz: Yes. On the initial eligibility, in other words, what you have to do in high school in order to be eligible, the test score will stay the same, at 700. Now you have to have a 2.0 in 11 core courses, and those are mandated, English, Math and Science and so forth. The number of core courses will increase to 13, and the grade-point will increase to 2.5. That’ll be phased in just like the original initial eligibility rule was. It will not impact any students who are currently in high school if that legislation passes. Then, I think the toughest correction will be for continuing eligibility. Right now, the rule says that after your second year you must declare a major and make progress toward graduation in that major field to continue your eligibility. But the thing that we find is that if an athlete is not making progress towards a degree in this degree, he just changes to another degree and you can kind of tread water and wear out those years of eligibility. The new rules will specify that you have to be 25% of the way there and 50% of the way there, then 75% of the way there before your last year of eligibility. There will also be grade-point standards, percentage of grade points; you’ll have to have 95% of the equivalent grade point for that degree before your third year of competition and 100% before your fourth year of competition. Basically, if you sit back and take a look at that, they pretty well closed off all the loopholes. If you are eligible from year 1 to year 2 to year 3 to year 4, the only way you won’t graduate will be to drop out of school at the end of the semester, because you should be right on track to graduate. So, that, I think, represents a really tough standard. It’s a much tougher standard than for the students in general, and the one catch to it will be the person who wants to change majors, maybe at the end of the third year, for a real, legitimate reason. And so because of that, there’s a proposed appeal board that will be established, that will be able to hear those legitimate appeals.and they would be granted, I’m assuming, based upon your progress there and the reasons that you would want to change majors at that late date.

Q: Will that encourage redshirting?

Schultz: No. It won’t. We have a lot of redshirting right now, and that’s going to continue to go on, and everything is geared basically towards a 5-year graduation cycle anyway. In fact, if you look at higher education in general now, it’s well over five years on a national level. So I don’t think it will encourage redshirting. It basically takes the current situation and applies those standards as they exist today.

Q: Can you comment on the ongoing controversy with Jerry Tarkanian?

Schultz: Sure, I can. It’s a situation that’s very difficult for people to understand because it’s been going on for so long. It’s been going through most of everybody’s lifetime, I think. It started well before I came to the NCAA, and I may be gone before it’s ever concluded the way it’s going right now. I’ve got to take you back almost thirteen years ago, and I’m just going to give you the facts. I’m not going to tell you that I agree with him or I disagree with him. I’m just going to give you the facts. It was about thirteen years ago that the NCAA Committee on Infractions gave sanctions to the University [of Nevada at Las Vegas]. They put them on probation for a couple of years, and they didn’t allow them to participate on television or in the Tournament, and the University observed those. People forget that. But they were penalized, couldn’t compete, couldn’t be on television, back in about 1977. The other part of that was a show-cause order that affected Coach Tarkanian, because it was the second school that had been placed on probation because of violations in a basketball program that he was involved in. Long Beach State first and then three years later UNLV. And so the Committee on Infractions said to the University, suspend the coach for two years or show cause why you should not receive more extensive penalties. Well, the University immediately suspended the coach, so that they wouldn’t have to incur more probationary penalties. The coach went to court and got an injunction against UNLV from enforcing that. The NCAA tried to get back in the picture; the coach went back to court and got an injunction against the NCAA, not allowing them to get involved. And then for about 12 years that went all through the Nevada court system, through the Appellate Court and all the way to the Supreme Court. Finally, two years ago, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the NCAA. The way the Supreme Court works when they rule on that, it goes back to the last court of jurisdiction, which was the Nevada Supreme Court. It took the Nevada Supreme Court over a year to vacate that injunction. Interestingly enough, they timed it so it vacated the day of the National Championship game in Denver a year ago. And what that did was it went back thirteen years ago to the show-cause provision, so the show-cause provision was now back in force. And so the new Infractions Committee, thirteen years later, says to the University, okay, now come to us and tell us what you’re willing to do. Because when the Supreme Court made its ruling, that relieved all of the injunction against the NCAA and not against the University. So the University still couldn’t legally suspend the coach. Well, that led to all the hassles that came out about them not being able to play in the Tournament, and then they came back and said, well, we can now do this, this and this. So the Infractions Committee gave them some options. Now there’s another Infractions case that’s being held up because of a law that was passed in Nevada requiring criminal due process for administrative hearings. And your guess is as good as mine as to when that will be taken care of. That probably only confuses you that much more.

Q: Can you tell us something about the concept of Division I-AAA, and what the likelihood of that happening might be?

Schultz: The I-AAA football concept is being developed for two reasons. There are, right now, in Division I, as far as classification is concerned, in football there’s three classifications. Well, there’s really only two in football; I-A, which are the 105 largest football programs, and they can have a certain number of scholarships; I-AA has less scholarships; and then I-AAA has been Division I schools not playing football. There’s a number of Division I schools that have that I-AAA classification that would like to have football programs, but don’t want it to be a scholarship program. They want the financial aid to be based on need. So that’s one thrust of the I-AAA concept. The other thrust is coming from the direction that really affects Davidson. We’ve had a number of Division I schools that are Division I in all sports, but they’ve been Division III in football. Well, with restructuring changes at the last Convention, you no longer can play down in a championship. In other words, Division I and Division II schools are no longer eligible to play in Division III championships. So this impacts a certain number of Division I schools. Those schools are interested in preserving their need-based football programs. They have come up with the concept of a I-AAA football concept. When the idea was first developed, it seemed to get a lot of support. Everybody thought, well, gee, that’s a great idea. That really would fit the needs of a lot of schools. And then as people thought about it, especially I-AA schools and Division II schools, they became concerned about the impact that that might have on their schools. Division II was concerned about Division II moving to Division I purely for basketball, playing I-AAA football, which would actually save them money, putting money into their basketball program. Division I-AA, which has had financial problems anyway, was concerned about schools dropping out of I-AA and going to I-AAA football, and therefore losing the I-AA football championship. And by this time of the year, I usually have a pretty good feel on which way legislation is going to go. And right now, I think this is a toss-up. It could pass, and it could go the other way. I think it’s really up for grabs right now.