4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

Excerpts on Davidson From The National Review College Guide: America’s 50 Top Liberal Arts Schools

In his book Choosing a College, Thomas Sowell notes that despite its lack of a national reputation, Davidson College has
produced more students who earn doctorates in mathematics than Amherst, Wellesley, Williams, or Smith - even though all of them
are larger than Davidson. Law school deans, moreover, rank Davidson in the top dozen schools nationally - ahead of most
Ivy League schools - for the quality of its graduates who go on to law school.

This is no news to most Southerners. They have long recognized Davidson’s outstanding quality. But Davidson now appears to be
moving into the ranks of the nation’s elite liberal arts colleges - a clear rival to the Ivy League itself.

Reflecting its traditions, Davidson proudly points to its honor code, which it is more than willing to compare with the
legendary code of Washington & Lee. Every entering student signs a pledge to adhere to the code, and by all
measures, it seems to work well, clearly a legacy of the school’s Southern tradition of the gentleman. The tradition is
also reflected in Davidson’s work ethic. There are few “Mickey Mouse” courses in Davidson’s curriculum and students are expected to
work long and hard. Reading lists are extensive and faculty simply assume that students will read the books assigned.

Incomparable Teaching

At Davidson, the focus of the institution remains on the classroom, and the quality of teaching is outstanding. Between 1985
and 1989 no fewer than six Davidson professors were honored by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education
(CASE) for teaching excellence. As much as anything, this commitment to close faculty-student relations has set them apart from the
mega-universities where teaching is at best a second thought, if not completely turned over to graduate teaching assistants.

More troublesome perhaps is the still subtle, but growing emphasis on “diversity.” Davidson’s graduation requirements now include something called the
“Cultural Diversity Requirement”... The vast majority of the courses that satisfy the requirements are solid studies of Asian culture and
language, including offerings in Sanskrit and Vedic literature.

Immune by Tradition

We do, however, note with some concern that Davidson has taken a leading role in something called the “Leadership South
Consortium for Campus Diversity,” which echoes the usual rhetoric of “multiculturalism” that has been responsible for so much of the
inanity and dislocation elsewhere. The school appears to be pursuing an aggressive affirmative action policy in recruiting black faculty members
- Davidson boasts that three of the eight professors hired for the 1990-91 year are African-American. Given the paucity of
minority candidates and the intense competition among the elite universities for politically correct and credentialed black candidates, we can only
wonder to what extent Davidson may be willing to sacrifice academic quality for “diversity.”

But all of this seems to have had little impact on the education students at Davidson receive. In fact, Davidson
seems to be a classic case of a school whose rhetoric is worse than the reality (the reverse of the
usual situation). We think Davidson remains a solid choice, not only because of its traditions, but because of a student
body and alumni whose values have been strengthened by their exposure to a genuinely fine liberal education.

Changes To Stuart ScholarshipProgram Announced By David Thompson

The spring of 1991 marks the resurgence of the Edward Crossland Stuart Scholarship Award at Davidson College. Although the program
has granted Stuart Scholarships to 49 students since 1976, a revised application process now changes the focus of the award.

Under the old program, a student had to be nominated for the scholarship by the high school from which he
or she was applying to Davidson. The winner of the award was granted full tuition expenses for the four years
to be spent at Davidson. Marlet Gibson and Jennifer McGrady, the last of these Stuart Scholars, will graduate in 1992.

According to a brochure publicizing the program, candidates earning a Stuart Scholarship exuded strong senses of “Christian commitment, leadership potential,
academic achievement, and vigorous outlook.” While these qualities are still necessary for a student to become a Stuart Scholar, the
college will this year begin awarding the scholarships to qualified applicants in the sophomore class. As it stands now, the
scholarship is “based solely on merit, and is awarded to rising Davidson College juniors.” Those students who win shall receive
an award of $10,000 for their junior year, which is renewable for the senior year, and must complete a summer
internship between their junior and senior years. Each Stuart Scholar must complete a summer internship which is “an appropriate demonstration
of Christian commitment.” The Stuart Scholarship program will offer up to $5,000 to cover the costs of the internship, and
up to $1,200 to assist students receiving need-based aid to comply with the summer earnings requirements of the Financial Aid
office.

While at Davidson, Edward C. Stuart himself excelled in several aspects of student life. Stuart was a member of Phi
Beta Kappa, ODK (leadership), Beaver Club (athletic), Phi Mu Alpha (musical), YMCA cabinet, Sigma Upsilon (literary), Sigma Delta Pi (Spanish),
and Court of Control (student government). Stuart spent his junior year at American University at Beirut, and served the World
Christian Youth Conference in Travancore, India. Stuart returned to Davidson to become president of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, and
to graduate cum laude with a letter in swimming. Although he accepted a Danforth Fellowship at Harvard University, Stuart was
commissioned by the U.S. Navy before he could begin his studies there. His Navy plane was lost off the coast
of Florida in February 1956.

Unwilling to allow their friend to be forgotten, several of Stuart’s classmates began the Edward C. Stuart Foundation, which, along
with other generous contributors, provides funds for the scholarship. Four Stuart scholarships will be awarded to rising juniors. Applications are
due on March 4, 1991, and can be obtained from Dr. John Kelton, Executive Assistant to the President, Chambers 112.
For further information, please contact Dr. Kelton.

---Biographical information and details of the scholarship obtained from the brochure mentioned above.

Name
SYRACUSE ABROAD

Study in one of SU's academic programs in England, France, Italy, Spain, Germany, Israel, Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and other locations
for a semester, a year, or a summer of study abroad. SEND TODAY FOR OUR CATALOG!

Address
State
Phone
School
Zip

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD
119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170
(315) 443-3471

Write For News
Call David at x6569, Sean at x7655, or Bailey at x6434

Hair Designer's Studio & Salon Supplies
CALL FOR APPOINTMENTS - 892-6982 or 892-7855
Children's Haircut & Style $3.00
Permanent Wave
Male or Female Haircut $5.00
