THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991 13 Sports

Volleyball Downs Wingate College
By Bruce Balestier

Having faced a critical point in its season after a pair of unsettling losses to Charleston Southern and College of Charleston last week, the Davidson Volleyball team apparently has righted itself, if Tuesday’s 15-9, 15-1, 15-12 win over Wingate is any indication.

Mental problems, namely a lack of concentration and intensity, had hampered the Wildcats during their brief, three-game losing streak; that lack of focus had translated into uncharacteristically error-filled performances. So it was Coach Rebecca Hawkins’ main aspiration that her players regain their mental form and commit fewer errors. She got her wish, for while the still-struggling attack was “not glorious,” in Hawkins’ estimation, the intensity and effort were there.

The win over Wingate was comforting, a swift decision over an inferior opponent. Hawkins said, “That’s what we went there to do.” The victory raised Davidson’s record to 8-5.

Unfortunately, time for reflection is noticeably absent in this season of frequent challenges for the team, and perhaps the foremost of those challenges came in this weekend’s trip to the James Madison Tournament in Harrisonburg, Va. There, the ‘Cats faced host JMU, Delaware, and East Tennessee State, and entered as underdogs in all three matches.

In the opener against James Madison, the Dukes simply proved to be too much to handle, easily dispatching the Wildcats in three consecutive games, 15-7, 15-9, 15-10. But Hawkins got her upset in Saturday’s matchup with Delaware. Davidson downed the Blue Hens in four tough games, 15-9, 15-10, 13-15, 15-10, recording a meaningful win for the program. In the tournament finale, the ‘Cats fell to East Tennessee State of the Southern Conference, 15-9, 15-6, 15-9.

The Big South schedule now begins in earnest for the team. Davidson visits conference opponents Winthrop and Liberty this week, in addition to non-conference foe UNC-Greensboro. The Wildcats return to Belk Arena after a month-long absence when they host UNC-Asheville on Thursday, October 10 at 7 p.m.

Football Falls in Second Half Rout
By Bruce Balestier

After enjoying a 14-13 halftime lead over homestanding Emory and Henry Saturday afternoon, the day turned dark for the Davidson football team, as the Wasps scored 26 unanswered second-half points to run away with a 39-14 win. The loss dropped the Wildcats to 1-3.

In what is becoming a familiar theme, freshman fullback Bruce Bannister was the star in the first half, rushing for both Davidson scores. His 1-yard run gave the Wildcats a 7-0 first-quarter lead, and his 81-yard sprint late in the second period put the ‘Cats on top 14-7. But the Wasps closed to within a point with a touchdown just 31 seconds before the half, marked their place, and began the rout on their first possession of the second half. In all, Emory and Henry gained 440 yards rushing and 582 yards total offense.

The Wildcats received 121 yards rushing on 10 carries from Women’s Soccer — Still Undefeated at Home

Freshman Sarah Cantrell blows past her opponent.
By Betsy Helms

The Wildcats remain undefeated at home as they chalked up another victory on Saturday against Virginia Tech. In the first 30 seconds of the game, Ellen Sprinkle scored as she took the ball to the goal from the kickoff.

The Wildcats remained hot as Ann Todd scored off a penalty kick and Annie Adams scored off her rebounded corner kick. Jenny Satterfield scored a goal off a free kick as it slid past the Tech wall to the outside corner.

The fifth goal was scored by Liz Clarke from a pass by Ana Bannister, and won theTurnover battle 2-1 by recovering two Wasp fumbles, but simply lost to a superior team. After the game, Davidson Head Coach Dave Fagg offered no excuses. “I hope we don’t play any teams better than that,” he said. “They absolutely mauled us.” After a week off, the ‘Cats return to action Oct. 12 at Washington and Lee. The Generals suffered a 24-7 defeat at the hands of Centre College Saturday. Davidson leads the series, 5-3.

Junior Amy Hoffheimer attempts a corner kick. Todd in the penalty box. The ‘Cats allowed three goals, one being a penalty kick, to make the score 5-3. The Wildcats' record is now 3-2. October 8 at 4:00 is the next home game against University of Charleston (Baptist College).

Field Hockey Defeats Pfeiffer College 5 to 1
By Jennifer Roos

Perhaps thinking of the KA t-shirts that read, “You never forget your first time,” the field hockey team experienced a plethora of firsts Sept. 18. In a 5-1 win against Pfeiffer College, four players, Suzanne Hardesty, Robin Pepper, Monique Dockter, and Jennifer Roos, scored their first goals of the season.

Sophomore Suzanne Hardesty, who scored her first collegiate goal early in the second half, reflected on it after the game. “It was a long wait,” she said, “and I was so excited that I wanted to go to Walt Disney World afterwards.” Dockter, a junior, said that “it was nice because the team produced goals throughout the entire game instead of slowing down offensively.” Newcomer Robin Pepper said, “I was very psyched. It was unexpected because I thought she [the goalie] deflected the ball out of bounds.”

Pfeiffer capitalized on Davidson’s sluggish early play to score off a first-half deflection. The goal was one of just five Pfeiffer offensive threats during the game and stirred some controversy. “We pulled the defense up in order to get an offside call, but the official completely missed the call,” defender Erin Lang said.

After Pfeiffer’s goal, the Wildcats dominated the game by maintaining possession of the ball within Pfeiffer’s twenty-five yard line until halftime. Davidson tied the game 1-1 when Roos scored off a corner play, her first goal of the season. The offensive line kept the momentum up in the second half with a strong passing game before the scoring deluge began. Roos scored again and was quickly followed by Hardesty, Dockter, and Pepper. The 5-1 victory brought Davidson’s record to 2-0 in the Deep South Conference and 3-1 overall.

The Wildcats next met James Madison of the Colonial Conference. The team’s goal has been targeted as a possession game with strong, accurate passing on turf and grass fields. Davidson hung with JMU throughout the first half until the last thirty seconds. The Wildcats lost possession of the ball at the Dukes’ thirty yard line. Senior All-South player Heather Owen went coast to coast, seventy yards with the ball, passing two defensive players and then the goalie to score.

“We got caught up offensively because we wanted to score before half, but JMU turned it around faster than we could recover,” defender Jill Bennett said. “The turf was very fast.” The Dukes scored three more times after Davidson offensive surges, making the final score 4-0.

Coach Betsy Brown said, “I don’t consider the final outcome a good description of the game. It was a good learning experience for everyone and next year will be different.”

The Davidson men’s soccer team lost to UNC Greensboro 4-2 in overtime Friday, dropping their record to 1-4-1 entering Sunday’s meeting with College of Charleston. The team next plays at home Wednesday, Oct. 9 against N.C. State.