Che Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXII MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991 NUMBER 11

Students Protest U.S. Involvement In Middle East On Campus, In Capital

Peace Vigil Held Tuesday In Front Of Chambers

By Meredith Hammons

In response to the escalating threat of war in the Middle East, people have been holding peace vigils across the United States. Here at Davidson, vigils have been sponsored by the Davidson Friends (Quaker) Meeting Group. Dr. Lauren Yoder, a member of the Friends group and Director of the Center for Special Studies, estimated that 50 to 60 students and faculty members have attended the vigils, which consist of 15 minutes of silent meditation.

“A vigil is an expression of solidarity, an expression of hope... a coming together of people who are seeking peace,” said senior Molly Graver, a member of Davidson’s Political Action Group. Yoder said that the group was not opposed to the soldiers in Saudi Arabia. “We’re not demonstrating against anything; it is a vigil for peace. We are hoping that the soldiers can come home without bloodshed. We’re supportive of human life,” he said.

Graver said that many of the people holding vigils across the country were family members of soldiers. Graver said that one of the group's goals was to encourage a coming-together of the campus and community because “apathy is a terrible thing.” Yoder said that the group wanted to encourage people to think about the situation in the Middle East and, if they had strong feelings about the U.S. government decision to go to war, to write to their representatives in Congress.

At the first vigil, the group passed out names, addresses, and phone numbers of these representatives, but they did not do so at the second meeting because they felt that writing was an individual decision. Yoder suggested that people read as much background information of the situation as they can in order to understand how complicated it is. “We should also think for ourselves and not be caught up in the rhetoric that politicians give. Sometimes they put themselves in a political box and...

Continued on Page 7

Black Students Call For Reforms

By Lisa Gerrard

Rafael Candelario recalls his first day as a freshman at Davidson. He arrived with more expectations than most others in his class, since he had spent four summers here with the Love of Learning program for minority high school students. “I guess I expected a feeling of brotherhood and concern like we had for each other at Love of Learning,” he said. “But when I got here it was different.

“People were looking at me like I was weird. I looked around and I realized that I was one black person surrounded by 500 white people.”

Minority students at predominantly white colleges bear a burden of difference that causes them frustration and anger, reports a study issued in December from a survey of more than 5,000 students. The study reveals that minority students on a given campus are likely to feel under-served and under-appreciated.

The report also indicates that half the black students on predominantly white campuses would not select the same school again. In response to this survey, several Davidson students said they also question their decision to attend a mostly white school. “Some days it’s the best decision I ever made and other days it’s the worst,” said senior Terry Hines, president of the Black Student Coalition.

Hines and others believe that broad reforms must come before a majority of black...students feel comfortable on this campus. To more effectively address the needs of black students, the administration helped establish the Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns in 1984. Since then, Davidson has hired a black assistant dean of admissions for minority recruitment and a black assistant dean of students. As of the fall of 1990, there were five full-time black professors, four full-time black administrators, and 71 black students enrolled out of approximately 1,500 on-campus—about five percent of the student body. (There are also 63 international students and 19 Hispanic-American students.)

In an interview on Saturday, seven black students said that the administration must make an even stronger commitment to meeting the special needs of minority students. They offer the following suggestions to improve conditions for blacks:
+ Davidson should recruit more black students. In the Fall 1990 edition of the Davidson Journal, President John Kuykendall said...

Alumni Arrested For Protest on White House
By Joe Maris

A Davidson College alumnus was arrested January 10 on charges of failure to quit unlawful entry in protest of the U.S. involvement in the Persian Gulf crisis during a White House tour in Washington DC. Edgar Willis Partington '89, Gerald Jones, a UNC senior, and John Hite, a UNC graduate, were arrested when they jumped over a rope into a restricted area on the White House grounds. According to Partin, the small demonstration was a prayer of peace directed towards the citizens and government of North Carolina. “This demonstration was part of a two-week series of civil disobedience demonstrations,” said...

Continued on Page 2,

Student Found Not Guilty in Honor Trial
By Mark D. Puckett

During the middle of exam week, the honor council brought to trial one honor offense. The student requested an open hearing. What follows are the details of that trial. The student will remain nameless.

The student took an exam, after which, he walked downstairs to put his exam materials in the envelope. His books and notes had been in the lobby of Chambers where he had been studying earlier. (Other students had also been studying in the lobby, for the rain had disallowed the normal cramming on the outside steps that usually takes place.) He went to where his books were in the lobby, exam envelope and exam in hand. The student needed to get a postcard. On the postage-paid postcard, it informed the professor that the student was on a scholarship through his father’s company and that it was necessary for the professor to pencil in the final grade on the postcard and send it to the company before January 1 for scholarship processing purposes. He had included the same card in other exam envelopes. When he could not find the postcard, he set down his exam and envelope where his notes were and shuffled through them. In the mess of papers, he picked up a page of notes from a previous class discussion and placed them in the envelope and left out the examination...

Continued on Page 3

News
Study says one in 500 college students infected with AIDS. Page 2.

INSIDE

Opinions
A left and right perspective on the U.S. military offensive. Page 5.

Campus Living
David Scott discusses the resurgence of beards on campus. Page 8.

Joe Maris reviews Awakenings. Page 10.

Rosemarie Tong shares her thoughts on personal concerns. Page 10.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, North Carolina 28036