THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

Beyond Birkenstock No Peace For Saddam Hussein: Prepare For War

“War is hell.” An infamous Northern general and no friend to Kappa Alpha paused momentarily from burning plantations and freeing
slaves to utter these immortal words. Tecumseh Sherman voiced the opinion that a bad war ended quickly is more humane
than a “noble” war fought by gentlemen that drags on ad infinitum. It’s a pity more people don’t bother to
remember what the old coot had to say because it seems particularly relevant to our own predicament in the Middle
East. George Bush is a damned hawk, but Saddam Hussein is a damned sight worse.

For those Birkenstock-wearing, peace-loving, aluminum warriors on campus, their primary objection seems to be that President Bush has prematurely added
troops to the gulf without first giving the U.N. imposed sanctions an opportunity to work, with the effect that the
proposed war in the gulf becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. Heaven forbid that we should actually prepare for a war that
has been a done deal since the day that Saddam Hussein indicated that Kuwait was his, and that he intended
to pluck out the eyes of whoever was foolish enough to disagree with him.

Listen up you slack-jawed troglodytes and take a look at the big picture. On January 9th, while Tariq Aziz and
James Baker were pursuing “the last best chance for peace,” the Saddamite was suggesting that American soldiers would “swim in
their own blood” in the event of a war. Such statements don’t generally garner Nobel Peace prizes. In fact, Mother
Theresa, who did win a Nobel Peace Prize, wrote a letter to both President Bush and Saddam Hussein suggesting that
“if you don’t have anything nice to say, don’t say anything at all.” In response, Hussein is quoted as threatening
to pluck out her eyes, and the pope better watch out too.

As for the rag-wool wearing, rally-attending, sanction supporters: in case you haven’t noticed, Saddam won’t be appearing in any SlimFast
commercials with Tommy Lasorda any time soon. Even the most optimistic estimates suggest that the sanctions will not become effective
for another ten to eighteen months. Put down that Manifesto, turn down that Grateful Dead, and listen for a second.
In ten to eighteen months, Kuwait will be a post-Cold War casualty and Iraq will be another nuclear behemoth Charles
Manson wouldn’t mess with. Saddam Hussein must not be rewarded for his aggression—the new world order is too fragile to
compensate totalitarianism. The last time such an action went unchecked, Czechoslovakia was deemed an expendable alternative to war. Chamberlain’s wait
was his, and that he intended to pluck out the eyes of whoever was foolish enough to disagree with him.

Could Accessible Student Evaluations Of Professors & Classes Improve Academic Life?

As a freshman, I had no idea what I was doing. I had some vague ideas about being a doctor,
liked English more than science in high school, could read and write, things like that. I assume that at least
a few people were like me. Nowadays I sort of know what I am doing, but not because of any
advice I got from my freshman advisor. What I know I learned more by making my own mistakes than by
being informed. My fault, you might say. My failure to deal with my problems. Maybe so, but part of learning
is connecting people with information. All kinds of people with all kinds of information. You can’t gather information forever and
never do anything. Hamlet’s problem, sort of. You are ultimately responsible for your own decisions. Yet if one makes uninformed
decisions based upon incomplete information, you hurt yourself more. This is obvious.

Over Christmas, relatives asked me “What are you doing?” I hate that question. Usually, I smile a bit and talk
more bull. Many seniors I talk to are faced with the fact that they need to know what they are
doing next year. Some are really sure, some have ideas, some have no clue. It’s fine not to be certain
of course, but it seems to me that paying all this money to study subjects that we won’t ever apply
in a practical way is foolish. College is a time to find yourself and all of that but why pay
$15,000 a year to do it?

So something needs to be done, perhaps. I should probably write about what is wrong with the advisor system, and
at least offer suggestions on how to change it. Maybe next time. I’d rather suggest something totally impractical and ridiculous
just to hear myself talk.

Most are familiar with the magazine Consumer Reports. It tests and evaluates consumer goods like cars, VCRs, CD-players and is
an accurate measure of factors like durability and overall quality. During drop-add or registration wouldn’t it be helpful if Davidson
had a similar system for evaluating professors? Is he sexist, boring, a genius, an easy D? Yet this is dangerous.
After all, evaluating a professor is much more complicated than testing a television set for durability. Our existing system is
confidential and private. Public record is a new ballgame.

According to several faculty members, Davidson had a public record of evaluation in the early seventies. The old system combined
numerical ratings and actual comments from students. In some years, depending on the quality of the staff, the publication was
helpful to students but in other years it became a popularity poll and was almost libelous. Would the present student
body produce anything different? The case against a public record of teacher evaluations is strong. It can jeopardize the quality
of academics if...Students are influenced by the wrong factors. On one extreme, the student who only took classes because they
were easy would cheat himself out of an education. A faculty member up for tenure who was getting unpopular might
be tempted to sacrifice his or her teaching standards simply for reasons of popularity.

The main argument against it is that the job is too big to be done. Even if there was enough
affordable housing, “peace in our time” lasted until Hitler took Poland in 1939. Until the Franklin Mint issues the “Famous
Dictators of the World” commemorative chess set, the only way we can identify an aggressor whose aggrandizement warrants retaliation is
by his actions. We will never have peace in our time. You may be asked to pour out your life’s
blood on the hot sands of the Middle East without so much as a dog-tag left to send home to
your parents. But at least you’ll rest peacefully in the knowledge that an honest-to-God moral imperative exists to justify your
death. For Saddam Hussein must not be rewarded for his aggression—the new world order is too fragile to compensate totalitarianism
until we realize that stronger, larger nations simply cannot absorb their weaker, smaller (albeit non-democratic) neighbors.

Why did China get away with Tibet? It was already too late when the first Chinese soldier marched in. The
world had too much to risk by provoking the third most powerful nation on the planet. With Iraq, the risks
are comparatively minimal. For once, at least, we can do the right thing. So what does this mean for all
you J. Crew wearing, Jaegermeister drinking, future exploiters of the world? It's conceivable that you should be willing to lay
down your life. Alternatively, what kind of actions can legitimately be allowed to go unpunished? What, then, is the moral
imperative? Just this, that arming Hitler and delaying in Czechoslovakia cost millions of lives in World War II. Any new
holocaust will be a nuclear one. There, now doesn’t that make you feel better? Oh, by the way, we have
it on good authority that anyone writing retaliatory letters to this column risks having their eyes plucked out. Remember, you’ve
been warned.

Bummer
By Matt Wazenburg '93

Call it a freshman hangover if you will, but at random moments I believe it is possible to navigate through
most of the bureaucratic spaghetti at Davidson. I have lived off-campus at Davidson for four months and was beginning to
believe that I could handle a kitchen, independence, and the quiet of my own quarters. Well, the suburban fantasy has
shrunk like some raisin and I find myself pining for the halls of Belk and Akers. This is not how
a sophomore should be expected to live. Though they remain tucked away well off campus, many sophomores do. Living off-campus
is not for everyone; but Davidson is forcing students to swallow this bitter pill.

I am quite aware that it is the rare case when a student is perfectly happy with his or her
housing: two “smiley marks” for everyone who is satisfied. Yet this is not the point of my argument. It appears
to me that Davidson is growing too big for its old clothes. Trying to argue that Davidson should not grow
is foolish: it's going to happen and the students at Davidson will reap the rewards and pay the prices. What
Davidson needs is a service to help students live in any off-campus rooms that become available. This is not an
appeal to change the lottery system, to initiate a coup in the admissions office, or for Davidson to pay for
off-campus housing. I love Davidson. I have never been happier with my classes and my education. But frankly, I feel
left in the shadows. And I feel we all need to ask some questions about Davidson’s growth if every year
more students are to be moved off-campus.

I am aware that Residence Life is not to be blamed. Richard Terry in RL has gone the extra mile
in order to situate my roommate and me. He is working with all the resources Davidson has at its command.
I cannot blame Admissions; as aforementioned, I expect Davidson to be just a little less than 1800 students before I
graduate. Perhaps what remains so frustrating about the situation is that no one can answer why we do not have
as many beds as students. Nonetheless, I do not seek a scapegoat; I seek a bed to sleep in next
year. There are no guarantees that you, snuggling in your second-hand couch, will have a bed either. There are no
plans to build new dormitories at Davidson.
