4 THE DAVIDPHONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991

THE DAVIDPHONIAN

Desperately in need of a slogan.

‘We Don’t Care.

Yes, as much as I hate to make it public, we here in the offices of The Davidphonian just don’t
care what you think. Several of you have probably been pretty offended by the stuff you’ve read so far, and
you’ll probably be even more offended on the following pages. The trick is, though, see, none of us gives a
damn in hell. If anything, we’re a little tickled about having ticked you off.

The real truth of the matter is that we don’t much care about anything up here, certainly not typographical errors.
We couldn't care less about current events, the PC movement, our lottery numbers, the SGA, and all the other things
we’ve written editorials about, editorials that have always gotten at least a few of you in a tizzy.

Maybe you could write a scathing letter condemning us for our apathy, but it wouldn’t have much of an impact.
In fact, it probably wouldn’t even get published. That’s what we up here like to call the power of the
press.

Just a couple of parting shots from the editor’s desk, I can’t resist it. No matter how you cloak it
in nationalism, war is still wrong, almost as wrong as the post-combat self-congratulation for having “kicked some ass” in which
our country has been engaged. Next, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is riddled with swine. Not giving
Julia Roberts the Best Actress Oscar was criminal. Finally, the worst thing about the PC movement is that those people
aren’t funny, and can really take the edge off of a good Helen Keller joke.

Well, now that that’s all been said, you all have yourselves a nice little summer, and for those of you
who get caught cheating on your exams, have a nice fall, too.

This is the year’s only issue of The Davidphonian, so enjoy it while it lasts. We might put out another
next year, if we get tired of doing the newspaper, but that’s up to us. (Power of the press thing
again.) Peace.

WD Hct Selod, HEALTH FAI

JAPAN

INDESTRUCTIBLE CONDOM MATERIAL

GERMANY

MANUFACTURING THE PERFECT CONDOM

Letters

To the Editor:

I’m sick and tired of reading those God damned communists you put in there called “Beyond Birkenstock”. When are you
liberal, pointy-headed intellectuals gonna get your acts together, and print something worth reading? I get disgusted seeing trash like that
in a college newspaper. Why don’t you publish something with sense?

Sincerely,

JESSE HELMS

U.S. Senate

Steinem Finds Column Offensive

To the Editor:

I’m sick and tired of those God damned fascists you put in there called “Beyond Birkenstock”. When are you backwater,
conservative tyrants gonna get your acts together, and print something worth reading? I get disgusted seeing trash like that in
a college newspaper. Why don’t you publish something with sense?

Sincerely,

GLORIA STEINEM

Davidson College PC Action Committee

The Umbrella Boys Find a New Fan

To the Editor:

I am writing in response to the now infamous Bad Boys Beyond Birkenstock.

You may remember me as the ex-mayor of Charlotte (defeated by Sue Myrick, the weirdest woman in town) or as
the man who was handily defeated by our great Senator Jesse Helms.

Anyway, while I may not agree with everything the Birkenstockers have said, I must say that they are incredibly witty
and insightful. They delve into the heart of issues with a vigor seldom seen in college journalism.

I now see why Senator Helms defeated me. By enlisting the support of these enthusiastic and sensitive young men, he
was able to build a foundation of respect in the educated community and ride that wave to Washington D.C.

Their frank opposition to political ‘correctness’ is an eye-opening refreshment. Pah on multi-culturalism! Fie on public funding for trivial and
immoral artists! That Civil Rights Amendment was nothing but a quota bill and if I still owned WJZY, I'd say
so on TV! (I’m laughing all the way to the bank on that little deal, folks). Vivé la business! Vivé
a moi!

I now realize my only mistake in the 1990 campaign was not hiring that brilliant campaigner, Lee Atwater.

Now, I'd like to announce my entrance into a different campaign--the one for the hand of Jean Kirkpatrick in holy
matrimony. Her solid conservative values are inspiring and really turn me on. And thanks to JZY, I’ve got the bucks
to win her over.

And my plans for future political office? Well, I thought the job of senator in the District of Columbia would
prove a quick ticket to fame and fortune.

So if you’re lookin’ for old Harvey next November, come on up to D.C. and we’ll have a congressional barbecue
(my fellow Democrats, that is). And remember, “Vote Early, Vote Often.”

Sincerely,
HARVEY GANTT

A FEW OF THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS ATROCITY

The Davidphonian is published once a year by the funnier and more modest students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidphonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
cheaply furnished and poorly ventilated offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed
in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidphonian.
You probably can't afford a subscription. We really do adore Terry Holland. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson
College. (So keep in touch after I'm expelled!)

Back Row: Iaman Hirmeror, Freelove Upthumpa, Joe Mommah; Front Row: Andi, Whopping Walt, James Brown, Ollie North, (OF the Smiling
Pederasts), M.C. Wasp, and Irving Lipschitz
