THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

Public Continued from Page 8

realm. At the same time as she protects wealth, America lacks any corresponding security in matters of education, health, or
the poor. The federal government knows, though belatedly, when it has to come into the financial industry and bail them
out, but should there not also be a similar crisis point in, among others, the three areas mentioned above? Just
how bad do things have to get before the federal government provides some support to the school systems or the
poor? How many families living on the streets is considered too many? $500 billion would go far in solving many
social ills. Unfortunately, the policies of the last ten years have not treated pressing social needs to the same degree
as defense and finance. Regardless of political persuasion, it is hard not to agree that the policies of the 1980s
hurt a majority of middle and lower class people. Kevin Phillips (a noted conservative by the way) in his new
book The Politics of the Rich and Poor provides overwhelming evidence of the preoccupation the federal government under Reagan had
with wealth at the expense of the less fortunate and their needs. One of his many statistics shows that from
1977-88 average family income, in real dollars, fell 14.8% for the lowest income decile, 6.3% for the middle decile, rose
23.4% for the top 5% and 49.8% for the top 1% (Phillips 17).

In this article I have tried not to advocate, but rather simply show that America is not the Utopia we
often believe it is. Britain runs their liberal democracy much differently than we do, but before we jump to defend
our ways, it might be helpful to listen to what others say. Two very respectable political analysts, J.D. and Ian
Derbyshire, have written an exhaustive account of the political/economic/social systems of the world. In their book they rank the world’s
liberal democracies based on a various and extensive array of data. What they come up with might surprise many in
the United States. Denmark ranked first, followed by Sweden and Italy. Britain wound up eleventh, while the U.S. finished way
down at 22nd. Despite her rhetoric about equality, America has traditionally followed a path that favors wealth, a tendency that
has only been intensified in recent years. Emphasizing education or a minimum standard of decency does not lead a country
toward socialism or communism, but rather only attempts to achieve the lofty ideals of fairness and equality on which we
like to believe our country was founded. Perhaps it is time to turn back toward that country and continent we
left for some lessons in real democracy.

Mike Moriarty is a junior history major from Charleston, WV.

A War Continued from Page 8

replete with guns, fat generals, and death, between the “Right Wing” and the “Left Wing” factions of the Davidson campus.
One side wins and gets to make the new rules that the other must follow. Lasting peace? Fat chance. God
knows no fury like a preppy rebuffed. If we open-minded, educated types can’t even allow dissenting groups to express their
opinions without ripping their posters down and excoriating each other in the pleasant little Davidsonian, what are the chances of
the defeated Iraqi people thanking us for all the great international laws we leave? My answer: I don't know. Moreover,
I don't have a f---ing clue... our Arab problems will not simply be blown away.

GRADUATE PROGRAM IN PHYSIOLOGY — University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

neurophysiology
molecular endocrinology
cardiovascular and renal physiology
cellular physiology
molecular biology and biotechnology

The Department of Physiology offers an outstanding program for qualified applicants interested in doctoral study and research. All admitted students
receive assistantships valued at $12,000/year. For more information, contact David Millhorn, Director of Graduate Studies.Physiology, CB # Chapel Hill, North
Carolina 27514 Telephone: 919-966-1204

them with and wishing us a happy life? My answer: I don’t know. Moreover, I don’t have a f---ing clue.
But I do think that people are rarely as right or as wrong as they look and our Arab problems
will not simply be blown away.

Quit Monkeying Around In The Gulf
By Sean Lind

Remember the old joke about the policeman who arrives at the scene of a terrible car wreck, and the only
survivor who he can ask for a description of the accident is a monkey? If not, it goes something like
this:

As has been widely reported in the news, President Bush has, throughout the War, been putting in his normal eight-hour
day, and then packing up and going home. “How was your day, dear?” asks Barbara, as she limps around the
kitchen, cooking dinner. “Fine, fine,” says George. “Bombed Iraq. That ought to take care of that ‘wimp’ thing.” “That’s nice,
dear,” says Barbara.

Now, although Bush may be stress-free, being careful not to overwork himself and taking the occasional trip to Camp David
for a little R&R, this leaves us with the interesting question: Who’s in the driver’s seat? Does Bush have an
“Auto-War” button he pushes every night before he leaves? Does he leave the war in the hands of that most
popular of oxymorons, “military intelligence?”

Or, imagine the worst case scenario: Bush leaves the office, promptly at 6:00. He locks up, thinking all is well,
and goes home. Little does he know, hiding under his desk is the Vice President. Quayle sneaks out, puts on
his G.I. Joe uniform (the one they let him wear in the National Guard), jumps in the sandbox, and gets
to play "Desert Storm."

The monkey makes screeching, wrecking sounds, gesturing wildly with his arms. “Ah, terrible, terrible. What were the children doing?” The
animal makes poking and punching movements. “What was the mother doing?” “Yap, yap, yap,” says the monkey. “Of course. And
what was the father doing?” The monkey acts as if he is gripping a bottle, tilting his head back as
if to chug imaginary liquor. “Oh, awful,” says the policeman. “And what were you doing?” The monkey acts as if
he were gripping an imaginary wheel.

Bad joke, you say? Maybe, but that joke seems to apply quite well to our current situation in the Gulf.
I am truly saddened by the suffering and loss of life caused by irresponsible political leadership. The point, I think,
is that nobody should have let the monkey take the wheel in the first place. Who could have stopped him?
Congress was yapping, the American people were fighting in the back seat, and the UN must have been drinking.

Now, however, is not the time to let the monkey have free reign. The lives of our American soldiers are
far too precious to be put in the hands of such an animal. Someone needs to take the wheel and
steer us towards peace, before the policeman arrives on the scene to hear the grisly details. Before it’s too late.

ATTENTION DAVIDSONIAN PATRONS
The Davidsonian’s Spring Semester Publishing Date Is Monday. Now start every week off with "The South's Foremost College Weekly"
Section Deadlines:
News: Saturday, 1 p.m.
Features: Saturday, 1 p.m.
Opinion: Saturday, 3 p.m.
