12

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991

Archives: Marc Overcash

In The Beginning, There Were Peach Trees

By Marc Overcash

Before Baker, Cunningham, Dana, Belk, and the four-pillared Chambers; before Elm, Oak, and Cedar Row; before the Honor Code, the By-laws, and the Charter, there was the concept. If your eyes could look back 156 years, they would find meadowland and a thousand peach trees, not college buildings and thousands of red bricks.

But to find the origin of Davidson, your eyes need to rove elsewhere. Though the college is a creation of the land itself, the creators of the concept met in Concord. For in the beginning, there were Presbyterian ministers.

The beginning was around March of 1835. These ministers organized a committee to locate a proper site for the Manual Labor Institution. The committee was asked to restrict their search to the land between the Yadkin and Catawba Rivers and the area about 15 miles from Beatties Ford Road. It was done. With candles in hand and prayers for guidance, the committee selected and signed a contract at Beaver Dam for two tracts of land from Mr. William Lee Davidson, II. The total amount of land was 496 acres. Although they believed the land to be worth at least $2,500, the committee allowed Davidson to sell the land for $1,521. In fact, since no bill of sales existed in Mecklenburg, many people contest that Davidson never accepted the money for the land. Even if he did accept the payment, his donation of $8,000 to the college and $1,000 to each literary society easily refunded the sale.

The Manual Labor Institution does not sound like a pleasant place to study. In August of 1835, the Presbytery remedied this impersonal name: “The Manual Labor Institution which we are about to build [will] be called Davidson College as a tribute to the memory of that distinguished and excellent man, General William Davidson, who in the ardor of patriotism, fearlessly contending for the liberty of his country, fell (universally lamented) in the battle of Cowan’s Ford.” General William Lee Davidson was the father of William Lee Davidson, II, the gentleman who sold/donated the land.

In 1837, the first class of students attended Davidson College for the mere sum of $100.

And though, as Dr. Mary Beaty points out in her A History of Davidson College, “More than 700 colleges in the United States went out of existence before the Civil War,” Davidson College still survives. Though manual labor has left, the peach trees are gone, and cows no longer graze on the front lawn of Chambers, Davidson College’s concept, “to educate youth of all classes, without regard to the distinction of religious denominations, and thereby promote the more general diffusion of knowledge and virtue,” remains as constant as it was in her early years. Thus Davidson College, though it outwardly shifts with time, inwardly feels the honor of her age.

---

Exams
Continued from page 11.

the shower. Use the same method described above, without the pillow, as you stand in the shower.

Other changes to look for are dimples, enlarged blood vessels, and puckered skin. Check for any changes in size and shape as well. You can check for these changes standing up in front of the mirror. First check with your arms at your sides, then raise your arms and check again.

If you notice anything unusual, consult your physician. This easy monthly check could make the difference of life and death in the case of breast cancer.

---

Sweaters
Cardigans
Turtlenecks
Mock Turtles
Jackets

COTTON FOR CAMPUS WEAR

Khaki Pants
Rugby Shirts
Sport Shirts
Dress Shirts
Boxers

Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN

John Mack & Son

For 79 Continuous Years
128 North Main Street

9 AM til 6 PM, Mon thru Fri. til 5 PM Saturday

Downtown Mooresville

---

Pizza
Subs
Salads
Beer

Exit 28
I-77

We'll custom build you a genuine New York style pizza Slice by Slice. Once you try us you'll never settle for ordinary pizza again!

Free delivery ($6.00 min. order)

COMPARE OUR PRICES
Our tray equals two large plus one small pizza

892-6678

More discounts available on Multi-Tray orders for large groups and fraternities.

Magnolia Plaza
1 mile west on 73 from Exit 28
8301 Magnolia Dr.

---

Slug's Restaurants

"Slug's" Restaurants are Coming to the Holiday Inn.

OPENING SOON!!
Slug's Rib at The Lake

Slugger's Grill and Bar
Now Accepting Applications for Housemen, Waitstaff, Bartenders, Bar Backs & Kitchen Personnel.

Please Apply in Person, Monday thru Friday, 2-5 pm