THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1991

Cornelson Lecturer to Discuss Eastern European Economic Reform
By Lisa Gerrard

A specialist on Eastern European and Soviet economic reform will speak at Davidson College on Tuesday, March 12, as part
of the Cornelson Distinguished Lecture Series in Economics. Morris Bornstein, an economics professor at the University of Michigan, will discuss
Eastern European reforms at 8 p.m. in the Art Gallery of the Chambers building at Davidson College. The talk is
free and open to the public.

A former consultant for the World Bank, Bornstein has participated in conferences of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe,
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and the International Economic Association. He is an editor for the journals “Soviet Economy” and
“Problems of Economics.” Bornstein’s articles on economic reform appear in numerous respected books and journals, but scholars know him best
for his popular textbook, “Comparative Economic Systems,” now in its sixth edition.

“Dr. Bornstein is truly an eminent specialist on Soviet and Eastern European economies,” said Clark Ross, chairman of the Davidson
College economics department. “He has taught generations of students the fundamentals of comparative economic systems by virtue of his well-known
text.”

The Cornelson Family Endowment sponsors Bornstein’s presentation as part of a series of distinguished lecturers on economics. The endowment honors
six members of the Cornelson family who studied at Davidson College.

This article appears courtesy of College Relations.

Project Life Committee to Hold Bone Marrow Drive
Courtesy of the Project Life Committee

The Project Life Committee would like to thank the school for its support in coordinating our first Bone Marrow Registry
Drive here at Davidson. To date, we have raised enough funds to type over 300 people, and we are expecting
more money before the day of the drive. Here are the details:

The drive will take place Wednesday, March 13, in the Morrison Room of the Union from 10:00 until 3:00. Testing
will be open to any student, faculty, or staff between the ages of 18 and 52 and will be done
by the American Red Cross on a first-come, first-served basis. Over 250 students have signed up for the drive, and
we would encourage these individuals to arrive as soon as possible for testing. Although we have more than enough funds
to type those who have pre-registered, we can only assure you a spot on the registry if you have paid
$60.00 for a test. The actual time that the testing takes is much shorter.

SGA
By Cecily Craighill

The old administration of the Student Government Association presided over their final meeting on March 5. Doug Jobe began the
discussion of old business by thanking Sarah Sadowski and all who participated in the Gulf Crisis Conference for their hard
work.

Jobe expressed great disappointment in the general student apathy on campus and particular concern for the impression it gives to
the professors. He wondered if any of them would ever be willing to participate in student activities like this again.

In other old business, Kristi Kessler talked about final plans for SGA Weekend. The prospectives stayed through Saturday, March 9
and appeared to have a good time.

The first item of new business was a report by Laura Cunningham, chairman of the Charters and Bylaws Committee. The
SGA passed the motion to renew previous charters and passed the proposals for two new charters, the Student Health Options
Committee and the Spanish Club. Students interested in getting involved in SHOC should contact David Wright, David Tonidandel, and Jennifer
Humphries. Those interested in the Spanish Club should contact Rafael Sanchez-Aballi.

Sue Ross, registrar, has suggested that the daily and weekly schedule be changed to start classes at 8:30 each day.
The main loss would be the 11th hour; the benefits would be more time for arts rehearsal and labs. Dr.
Ross also feels that starting classes later would encourage more faculty to offer morning classes and more students to take
them.

Doug Jobe said his final words as president, mentioning the need for the SGA to pull together to help make
Davidson a better place not just for the students now, but for those in the years to come. He then
made motions recognizing the work of Kristi Kessler as vice-president and Lori Rockett as chancellor, and each received the traditional
gold Cross pen with the Davidson seal. Kristi made a motion recognizing the work done by Doug Jobe as president,
then presented him with the traditional Davidson captain’s chair.

The final event of the meeting was the swearing-in of the new president and vice-president, Cammie Covington and Laura Cunningham.
Cammie addressed the SGA and outlined a few of her expectations for the rest of the year. She then presented
a plaque to Doug and adjourned the meeting until next Tuesday.than giving blood at a blood drive. There will be
some paperwork to fill out, but only a small sample of blood will be obtained. All this takes about ten
to fifteen minutes at most. We are looking forward to a successful drive, and we would appreciate your participation. If
you have any questions about the Bone Marrow Donor process and would like more information on what is involved, please
do not hesitate to call Beth Duttera at x2460.

By Tom Koonce

Belk Dorm was the site of two break-ins during the past week. Between 2:30 am and 1:30 pm Saturday, March
2nd, two Belk students had their wallets taken from their Belk room. The two students were asleep when the wallets
were stolen. One of the wallets had sixty-five dollars and two phone calling cards. A driver’s license, a Davidson ID,
and a Social Security card were also taken with the wallets. On that same day, March 2nd, between 1:00 pm
and 2:00 pm, a portable CD player was taken from a Belk room. The CD player is a black 1991
Kenwood DPC-41 model. It is valued at around $150.00.

* * *

The Davidson College Police recently released its February report on campus crime. This report also includes the number of times
the police were called for services, such as escorting students. Some of this information is shown below:

Arrests/Felonies.................. 10
Arrests/Misdemeanors............. 2
Breaking and Entering............. 7
Larceny........................... 5
Tickets issued to Students....... 229
Students Escorted................ 244
Ambulances Requested............. 2
Noise Complaints................. 10
Assaults......................... 1
Student Vehicles Towed........... 29

Total property loss for February was $4,555.00.

* * *

Between 3:15 pm November 20 and 4:30 pm November 25, 1990, unknown person(s) entered a Richardson dorm room. Two Macintosh
SE computers were stolen from this room. Along with these computers, two extended keyboards, two ImageWriter printers, and two surge
suppressors were also taken. The door was locked when this incident took place. If anyone has information about this crime,
please contact the Davidson College police or call 896-7867. A reward of up to $1000 is being offered if your
information leads to an arrest. You can also remain anonymous if you so choose.

Adami Desire’a Peaceful Solution

By John Wilson

Steven J. Baggarly ‘87 received a six-month probation and a $10 dollar fine for demonstrating against the war without a
permit in front of the White House on Dec. 30. Baggarly manages a Norfolk shelter for the homeless. The shelter
accounts for one of the sixty existing shelters around the nation. As a Catholic Worker, Baggarly does various forms of
resistance work.

Baggarly commented on the actions that led to his arrest: “There were eight of us protesting against the war. I
held a sign that read ‘Love Your Enemy - Jesus’... We simply wanted people to reach for a different solution
than fighting.”

Working along with Baggarly is his wife Kimberly Williams ‘87. Together the two run the shelter for the homeless. “We
want to invite those individuals from the streets into the house who are not accepted by the general public,” Baggarly
said.

Besides demonstrating against the war, Mr. and Mrs. Baggarly also have protested against the death penalty. These protests occur in
Norfolk, VA, home of ten military bases. Baggarly explained how the people usually react to his demonstrations: “Verbal hostility was
common from the people. However, we continued to demonstrate every morning until the very end of the war.”

The reasoning behind Baggarly’s actions entails a full commitment to the words of Jesus. Baggarly explained: “We believe all people
are family. We have to love our enemies... Violence is not a means to achieve a goal. Only love can
transform, not brutal force. False peace comes with brutal force. When forcing a change, the spirit does not change. In
such situations, we need to confront ourselves then look within ourselves. This is why I am working in this house.
In my eyes, everyone is the same. I want to help bring those people in that need a lift that
society cannot give. I surely don’t do it for the money.”

For philosophical reasons, the house runs purely on donations. The first Catholic Worker house began in 1933. Ever since then,
the houses have been run in a family fashion; everything is shared. Baggarly sums up his role as a Catholic
Worker: “We act as disciples trying to make society the way Jesus envisioned it. Our goal is to bring everyone
who wants to listen the message that our enemies, who we try to kill, can be our friends. If that
is not enough justification, then why did we support Iraq during the Iraq-Iran War, then destroy Iraq? Loving your enemy
is the only answer.”

Yabba dabba doo? Want to write for news? If you have any hot news tips or tantalizing story ideas, call
Sean at x6107 or The Davidsonian at x2148.
