2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Davidsonian Editorial Board Soundly Rejects Endorsement Proposal
By Sean Lind

Last Wednesday night, The Davidsonian editorial board overwhelmingly rejected a proposal to endorse SGA candidates. The vote was 15-4. Editor-in-Chief
Jay Chaudhuri and Executive Editor Mark Puckett both dissented. After interviews with the seven SGA candidates were completed, the endorsement
idea was brought forth for discussion.

In arguing against an endorsement, Associate Editors Joe Maris and Walter Price felt that such a step would be both
unfairly biased and irresponsible. “I realize that the intention of the endorsement was to encourage students to vote according to
credentials rather than flyers, but I felt that the endorsements would only bring out bad blood against the paper and
that it would definitely not be fair to the losing candidates,” said Maris. “It isn’t equitable that in a school
of 1400 students to select a candidate without distinguishing personal biases. Furthermore, the process would be unfair because there would
be no time for candidates to respond after the endorsements by the paper were published,” said Price.

However, Chaudhuri and Puckett held a different opinion. “Obviously, I am disappointed,” said Chaudhuri. “Because past SGA elections have essentially
been a flyer and popularity contest, the idea of endorsing candidates would only educate voters. The board steered away from
its responsibility.” Concurred Puckett, “The issue seems to be that this is a small school and at a small school
feelings and egos might be wounded by such an endorsement. So instead, we will see another typical election in which
cliques of friends vote for friends because they don’t have enough personal integrity to step outside a friendship to choose
the best candidate with the best platform.”

Commons To Use New Boone System

“Vail Commons is modernizing with a new computer program designed to cut costs, increase efficiency, and help better serve helps
the production crew in the — of having 24 The MDS, or Meal Development 4

The Davidsonian Drastically Needs Your Help. Sign up For Editor positions or the paper becomes extinct on March 4. Call
x2148.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

Photo By Chris L Lee
Professor of history Ralph Levering and Consul General Barry Holmes chat politics. Holmes discussed the future of England after Margaret
Thatcher.

Consul General Holmes Discusses Duties And British Politics
By Russ Tisinger

Last Tuesday in the Morrison Room, Barry Holmes, British Consul General in Atlanta, talked to Davidson students about his duties
as Consul General, and shared his views on events in the Persian Gulf, the Soviet Union, Europe, and post-Thatcher Great
Britain.

Mr. Holmes has been a member of the British Foreign Service since 1950. He took two years leave to serve
in the British Army where he became a captain in the Royal Artillery. He has worked for the British Foreign
Service in Ecuador, Canada, and Kenya, and for the last five years he has been Commercial Counselor and Deputy Nevertheless,
the office serves as an important and accessible link to the British government for American government and media.

Second, Mr. Holmes promotes trade and investment between Britain and the Southeastern states. He facilitates and brings together willing buyers,
sellers, and investors in each country. Despite the popularly held notion that Japan invests too heavily in the United States,
Great Britain remains the largest single foreign investor in the United States. Great Britain invests heavily in the Southeastern states.
She is the foremost investor in the state of Florida, and is the second heaviest investor in Georgia.

Finally, the Consul General Mr. Holmes believes Prime Minister John Major will rule in a less dogmatic or controversial fashion.than
did the former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Deputy Chief of Mission at the British Consul General in Atlanta. Just last
November he was named Senior Consul General. As Consul General, Mr. Holmes serves as a liaison between Britain and the
United States on economic, social, and political issues. He is primarily responsible, however, for relations with the Southeastern States comprising
his parish. Mr. Holmes approaches his job with three chief objectives in mind. First, he represents Great Britain here and
explains the actions and policies of the British government to the American government and media. For instance, during the Falkland
War, Mr. Holmes’ predecessor was in constant demand for comment on British action in the war. More recently, Mr. Holmes
was wanted for comment on the resignation of Margaret Thatcher. Contrary to popular opinion, the Consul General does not receive
any classified information that the general public cannot obtain.

He protects and aids British citizens who visit the United States. For example, passports are often lost or stolen, and
the British Consulate in Atlanta must replace them. Holmes must also deal with British citizens committing crimes in the United
States. There are 25 Englishmen in jails across the Southeast. Most were involved in drug dealings, but there are two
men imprisoned for first-degree murder. With regard to occurrences such as these, the Consul General takes care not to interfere
with the justice system in the United States, but instead relays to Britain an accurate and positive impression of American
justice.

Mr. Holmes also voiced his opinions and those of the British Government concerning the war and recent events in the
Soviet Union. He expressed the view of the British government that, despite the fact that war is always evil, it
was in the end the only alternative. It was necessary to prevent further aggression and bloodshed in the future. He
also communicated his regret at the apparent conservatism taking hold in the Soviet government, and the recent force used by
Soviet troops in dealing with the Baltic states’ efforts at achieving independence.

Mr. Holmes also spoke about the future of the European Community. The twelve countries that comprise the community are steadily
working towards achieving by 1992 a new European Community characterized by what they call the “four freedoms.” They are attempting
to gain free and uninhibited passage of goods, capital, people, and services from one country to another. Mr. Holmes is
confident that only the uninhibited passage of people might not occur as soon as is hoped. The ever-present threat of
terrorism will grow if people are allowed to move so freely within the twelve states of the community. Also, some
states worry that less restricted traveling will mean mass migrations from East European states. Spain, Italy, and Portugal are concerned
about heavy immigration from North Africa. According to Mr. Holmes, the other three freedoms will occur in due time.

Also with regard to the EC, Mr. Holmes emphasized a plan to make banks across Europe more free to invest
in other countries. By 1993, banks that have a license to do business in one country can automatically do business
in the other eleven. Banks will operate with little restriction, being able to carry out insurance policies and deal in
securities. Mr. Holmes described the plan as a “far-reaching move” that will put Europe “a little bit ahead of the
United States” with regard to banking.

The British government remains at odds with the other members of the EC on the pace of this economic, monetary,
and political union. The majority of countries believe in a rapid move to political union, whereas the mi-

Continued on Page 7
