THE DAVIDPHONIAN CAMPUS LIVING
MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991

Today, boys and girls, I am going to tell you about something which is usually not mentioned in public places. Yes, that’s right—we are going to discuss condoms, or, to use the more colloquial and well-known term, RUBBERS. Those of you with children under the age of seventeen might want to ask them to leave the room while you read this article.

Now, as many of you may or may not know, most condoms are made of latex, the same material found in Hefty trash bags. Personally, I do not prefer latex. They are non-biodegradable; the latex breaks down when a petroleum-based lubricant is used; they cannot be carried in a wallet because the heat from my arse also breaks down the latex; and they just plain smell funny. When I have one on, I feel like my member is in a Glad sandwich bag.

I think that the condom of choice for most people today is the “au naturale” sheepskin prophylactic. This one is environmentally friendly. It’s like wearing nothing at all. Unfortunately, they are not impervious to the AIDS virus, so use them only with someone you trust. Personally, I do not like these much more than I like the latex ones. I am simply unable to maintain my erection in a sausage casing (the parallels there are obvious to everyone, I think).

The condoms I prefer are the ones which are found on the bathroom walls of every truck stop across this great nation of ours. You know the ones I mean; on the dispenser is written the catchy phrase: “She'll love you for using it.” Most of these condoms are constructed from a malleable form of PVC, which is also used for plumbing. When I’m wearing one, I can’t feel a damn thing but I know in my mind and in my heart that it won’t break. I also know, from the way the woman on the wrapper writhes eternally, that my partner will never doubt my sexual prowess again.

Perhaps the most famous of these is the ubiquitous French Tickler. These things remind me of a deflated puffer fish, deflated, that is, until I put the thing on (hardee, har, har). In the case of the French Tickler, form truly does follow function. I’m sure these condoms really do tickle; how anyone can laugh in the middle of coitus, though, and still perform, is beyond me.

I would like to close by reminding everyone that safety is the most important thing to keep in mind when choosing a condom. Yeah, right! I don’t want it to feel safe; I want it to feel good! Just remember: No glove, no love.

Dr. Andi received his MD through the American High School Equivalency and Medical Board Examination Group S.T.U.P.L.D. (Students Together Uprooting Politically Incorrect Davidsonians) will be meeting next week to decide how we're going to react to the dramatic uprise in rationalism at the expense of radicalism on campus.

Parties Continued from page 7

Kappa Alpha: I wasn’t quite sure what to expect from these Southern Gentlemen, so I approached warily. My fears were unfounded, though, as a young...Man in a perfectly pressed white Oxford and khaki Duckheads came right up to me and offered me a mint julep. The taste was exhilarating, as were all the Rusk chicks who were hanging out. Somebody had told me that Kappa Alpha parties sucked, but, boy, was he wrong. These fellows were rocking their heads off to the Black Crowes, but for some reason, the music kept skipping.

After getting a few shot glasses full of beer, I made my way toward the SAE house, in spite of the warnings a lot of the Rusk girls gave me.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: I could hear some distorted Grateful Dead as I walked up the newly asphalted walkway toward this house. Unfortunately, they didn’t play any other music the whole time I was there. Also, it was really hard to get a beer from one of the people stumbling up the stairs (I didn’t really need one, though, because I was soooo messed up!). And all the guys there were talking to girls about the imported beer they had back in their rooms, so I didn’t get to hang out with any of them. Come to think of it, the girls, who all had on sweatshirts with paisley WHs on them, weren't really interested in talking to me either. After a while, the guy who had warned me about KA parties sucking did come up to me to tell me how “hoddy” his party was, but after hearing “Scarlett Begonias” for the third time, I decided to leave.

Kappa Sigma: When I walked into this house and a brother offered me a handshake instead of a beer, I realized that it was KS parties that suck, not KA. There were some guys wearing the same thing as the KAs, but most of them had on these blue T-shirts that read, “Since we definitely won’t be hooking, come eat our cooking.” By then, it was getting close to 2 o’clock, and I was about to head back to my room for Tequila shots when I heard that there was free beer up near Chambers.

The Davidphonian: Less Talk, More Rock!

Phi and Eu Halls: I was amazed that the Philanthropic and Eumenean Societies were doing something like partying, but the member of the one closest to Chambers told me the two societies had decided to bury the hatchet and get together for a real blowout. All four of the societies’ members were concerned with the campus’ opinion that they never did anything, and they decided to dispel that image. Did they ever! Since the PCC won’t let Patterson Court houses serve alcohol after 2, all of the partiers down there just came up the hill. That guy I had talked to at SAE said, “Hey, man, this is even hoddier!” And a couple of guys even wrinkled their oxfords.

Overall, I would have to say that my night of exploration on Patterson Court kicked ass, but it was the Phi/Eu party that really made the night. I’m really looking forward to next weekend, when the SGA says they’re going to do the same thing the two societies did this weekend. They, too, are hoping to convince people that they actually do something. Seems like kegs are the best way to make that point.