THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

By Tom Koonce

Early Tuesday morning, April 2nd, four bikes were taken from bike racks in front of the sophomore dorms down the hill. At least one of these bikes was locked to the rack. It took only a couple of days for the bikes to be recovered. They were found in Mooresville by the Mooresville Police. Two to three suspects were apprehended for taking the bikes.

In an unrelated incident, around 1:00 am, April 2nd, an AT&T Answering System Telephone was taken from the apartment in the ATO house. The victim was in the process of moving into the apartment when the incident occurred. The apartment was entered by an unlocked side door. Another student was in the house when the incident occurred. He heard something fall on the floor and went to investigate. He then found the machine to be missing with the phone cord leading out to the porch. The cord had pulled a TV off a table when the machine was taken. The system is valued at $110.00.

Before spring break, two Patterson Court houses were the scenes of breaking and enterings. On Thursday, March 14th, a CD player was taken from the KA house. The player is valued at $220.00. On Saturday, March 16th, a composite was taken from Warner Hall. The composite is valued at $1,200.00.

The Public Safety Office has caught two juveniles that have been stealing wallets around campus. These two admitted to taking a billfold from the Baker Sports Complex in February and to taking a wallet from a bookbag in the College Union in December. Most recently, the two took credit cards, eyeglasses, and a Davidson College ID from a bookbag at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. This incident occurred while the victim was attending church on Sunday, March 3rd. The credit cards taken by these juveniles have been recovered. Sergeant D.E. McLaurin said that students should be aware of such incidents of off-campus people stealing wallets and other objects from Davidson students. He said that students should not leave bookbags with wallets or checkbooks unattended.

Director of Public Safety, Ray Thrower, said that the Campus Police are going to start issuing tickets to students who ignore stop signs on campus. He mentioned that he has received several complaints about such violations and that something had to be done about this problem.

A REWARD OF UP TO $1,000.00 IS BEING OFFERED FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO THE ARREST OF THE CULPRIT(S) WHO TOOK A COMPUTER FROM A ROOM IN BELK DORMITORY. Over spring break, between the days of March 21st and March 31st, an Apple SE computer was taken from a Belk dorm room. Also taken were an Apple Image Writer printer and a SONY multi-disk CD player. If you have information about this or any other crimes, please contact the Campus Police or call 896-STOP.

Rape Continued from Page 3

The movie suggested several paths of action for avoiding rape. Co-eds were warned not to prop open doors or otherwise provide easy means of access to dormitories. Also, women should avoid isolated areas and walking alone. For the prevention of date rape, women should make sure to avoid mixed signals and should back up their words with concurring actions. Being intoxicated puts women at more risk, making it harder for them to communicate their limits. Carlson and Kelly commented after the film on the many myths and misconceptions that continue to pervade the Davidson campus. Most incoming freshmen falsely believe that nothing that bad can happen at the school because we are bound by the Honor Code. In fact, rape is one of the largest problems on campuses today in terms of numbers. Unfortunately, many are afraid to come forward with their stories and most rapes go unreported.

The committee wanted to make clear the number of resources victims have available at Davidson. Besides the obvious option of the police, the Dean of Student’s office, Chaplain’s office, and counseling center will all schedule confidential, mediated meetings in which the victim and attacker can discuss the situation.

S.H.O.C.C.

Are you willing to be S.H.O.C.C.-ed? Want to help with health awareness and education? Sign up to join the Student Health Options and Concerns Committee. Applications available in the infirmary and the Dean of Students Office. 20 Students will be selected. Questions? Call:
Georgia Ringle
David Wright
Amy Howard

Holocaust Continued from page 2

He was in line at the city hall when a boy rushed in announcing that the SS was rounding up boys to work in mills in Germany. Everyone knew the heavy bombing in that area of Germany made it so that to work in the mills meant probable death. At that moment, a man with the SS walked in. Somehow, while the SS officer’s attention was diverted, another man grabbed him from behind, took him in a side room, gave him his papers, and let him out a side door. The man probably saved his life. Mond regrets never having been able to find the man and thank him. Three days after that incident, he returned to Antwerp where he learned his sister was caught in a raid in Austria. The family decided to attempt to reach Switzerland through France. He, his mother,and his sister spoke French fluently. His father, however, didn’t speak a word. They decided he should pretend to be deaf and dumb for the duration of the trip. They took a train to Paris. Eventually, with the help of the underground, they made it to Lyon in southern France. There they could not stay in the same hotel more than one night or the room would be raided. The family did not sleep in the same location for safety’s sake, and one of these nights Mond was planning to sleep in a park. In the park, he met a prostitute who took him back to sleep in a hotel. That night the hotel was raided. Unbelievably, every room in the hotel was searched except for the one where he was sleeping. The concierge had told the guards that an exhausted businessman was sleeping and should not be disturbed.

The family eventually found a guide to lead them into Switzerland. One day and night they walked 10 miles until they were 2 miles from the border. There the guide told them he would not escort them right up to the border. That was not the agreement that had been made, but at that point, the family had no choice but to walk over alone. They walked over a mountain pointed out to them by the guide and descended into a town. It was 5 in the morning at that point. Mond walked up to a house and tapped on the window. A man appeared, and Mond asked if this was Switzerland. The man at the window said it was indeed and gave them some dry clothes and took them to get their papers in order. The family and all the other refugees that reached Switzerland that week were accepted. The following week the government rejected all refugees requesting entry.

After the war, Mond returned to Belgium. He found that his sister died in a crematorium at Auschwitz. Forty-one of the forty-three members of his high school class died in the war. Mond wanted to make it clear that his life was saved by the incredible kindness of other people. Three Christian families risked their lives to hide and help him. He also wanted to say that he does not hate the German people. Germans also risked their lives to hide Jews in the country, while some Jews actually turned in other Jews to save themselves. Mond came to the United States in 1954. He found work in New York and eventually married and raised three children. Today Mond lives with his wife in Charlotte.

Continued from Page 3

beautifying our community. The Cleanup is like a walk-a-thon except that instead of simply walking to raise funds for the hungry and homeless, we’ll be simultaneously focusing our energy on helping our community. For example, we’ll volunteer a few hours to clean a playground, work with recycling, or pick up trash in local neighborhoods. You raise funds by asking your friends and family to sponsor you for the hours you work at these projects. By joining the effort you'll be fighting hunger and homelessness, both in Davidson and around the world, while having fun and knowing you’re making a difference. So take some time this weekend to focus your “Spring Frolicking.” A few hours of selflessness can make a world of difference!

Continued from Page 1

August 4, in time for the return of students for the school year on August 18. Students in the new apartments pay the College’s single-room rate of $2,511 per school year for those accommodations. They will also be automatically billed $5 per student per month for the cable television access that is included in each room. Apartment-style buildings have proven highly popular with students. Since room assignments on campus are made on a lottery system that gives higher priority to older students, all of the apartments are expected to be occupied by seniors and juniors.

Continued from Page 3

could not ever produce children without these embryos, then this consideration would outweigh the man’s desire not to be a father. However, if the woman could find a partner willing to fertilize more eggs, the man’s interests would prevail. Also, Dr. Robertson believes that one result of the Davis case might be that couples will make agreements foreseeing such future possibilities. Dr. Robertson concluded his talk with a short discussion of sperm donation and surrogate motherhood. He believes that both should be allowed and subject to contracts between the three parties.

Come To The CONVERSATION CLUB

To Participate in a Discussion About Current Events With a Summer Qualifications: A Davidson student, male or female, who can work a minimum of 40 hours per week from May 15th - August 5th, (There is more work prior to and after these dates if interested). Good communication skills and the ability to work alone when necessary. Compensation: $4.50 per hour - Guaranteed 40 hours a week minimum for May 13 - Aug. 3 - 10 Meals a week at Commons - Free housing. To apply: Pick up applications at Residence Life Office beginning Wed. Apr. 3. Application deadline is Apr. 15, interviews between Apr. 15-26th.

ANNOUNCEMENT

The Residence Life Office is now hiring Conference Assistants to work with camp groups visiting Davidson during the summer.