THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

DEPTH! RELEVANCE! Go Braves!

In terms of geologic time you’re basically already dead. So root for the Braves. That’s what this article’s about. You
may stop here and plunge into RUDE NOTES for all we care.

Dear Depth! Relevance! Society -- Uh, what's geologic time? Well, we’re glad you asked. Geologic time is this really, really
big version of time that divvies up Earth’s history into Eras (a couple billion to several hundred million years or
so), Periods (often in the hundreds of millions of years), and Epochs (mere ten million year blips). For a kickin’
“Geologic Time Chart” check out the New World Dictionary (a big blue book) in the David Scott computer center.

(Teaser! -- The description of the Permian Period includes the information: “Final folding of Appalachians & European ranges” as well
as “ferns abundant.” Hectic times these.)

To the geologic eye, the drifting continents leave a wake and the Rockies seem tenuous. The point is, geologically speaking,
a good hunk of granite holds much more interest than a well-adjusted individual. We humans have been around maybe in
the hundreds of thousands of years. Nothin’! So, unless you’re some sort of cool genetic mutant with funky evolutionary potential,
you might as well cycle your minerals back on into the system. If you luck up, maybe some of them
will become a rock.

Still with me? Still worried about mid-terms? Still think you matter? I hope so. Being paltry, humans need to value
things, worry a little -- you know, treasure life and all that. We go about our little duties: grades, career,
family, etc. We feel important. But when it comes right down to it: nothing, especially nothing human in origin, matters
anyway, you might as well root for the Braves.

The members of our committee remember back in the 70’s going to sleep with the radio on and hearing Roland
Office drift back for a looooonnnngg fly ball -- he’s going backbackbackback, he’s at the fence, he leaps, Oh! he’s
crashed into the wall, let’s see if he’s O.K., Oh, my! He caught it! He caught the ball... We're not
sure Roland Office could leap, but he at least hopped a little and he did hit the fence and he
did catch the damn thing. Roland was a bit of a scrub, even on the Braves, and all of us
were shocked and happy. The Society has no idea why this incident haunts our collective consciousness, but it does. And
it matters just as much as the next entry on your day timer (geologically speaking, of course).

The Braves won last night (Thursday). A 21-year-old pitching and they shut out the Pirates 1-Zip. Oh, Yes!

Write for Opinions
Call Peter Fisher at -6587

Last spring, one of Dr. Marcon’s classes performed an Alcohol/Drug Use Survey in which 260 random Davidson students were questioned
in a seemingly exhaustive manner. A few weeks ago, the Davidsonian ran a news story about the findings of the
survey, and the...Results were, for want of a better word, just interesting. Very few people, I imagine, were too startled
by what they understood the results to be. I know that I did not bat an eyelash upon reading that
87% of all Davidson students surveyed have drunk at least one beer during their tenure here. That ought not to
be a revelation to anyone. But in a CCRL meeting two weeks ago, Dean Terry handed out a summary of
the findings to the council members, and as we read the nine-page report, our mouths opened one by one. In
that medium, with means and ranges and correlations and standard deviation points, each of us saw some pretty scary stuff.
We weren’t too surprised by the alcohol statistics, but as we read the report, few of us could believe what
we saw about an issue that I, at least, had never really even considered. I want to share a few
of the more enlightening points:

- 36% of those surveyed feel sad.
- 37% are disappointed in themselves.
- 25% don’t enjoy things as much as they used to.
- 41% are having a hard time motivating themselves.
- 30% don’t sleep as well as they used to.
- 46% get tired more easily.
- 21% “could be considered mildly-moderately depressed.”

If the results are accurate, and there is nothing to suggest that they are not, then more than one in
every five Davidson students is depressed according to the report when the scores are weighed together. Using my sub-standard math
ability, that’s somewhere in the neighborhood of 300 people. And depression is more than simply feeling down. My dictionary tells
me that depression is “a decrease in functional activity.” 300 Davidson students are not emotionally able to “function” as well
as they ought to normally. The implications of this are profound. I don’t pretend to be a psychologist, but I
can say without reservation that I do not think that it is acceptable for one in every five of us
to be depressed. It’s just not OK. I have to ask myself, “why?” Why are there 300 people walking around
this campus feeling emotionally unwell? Stress certainly is a factor according to the report. 55% of those surveyed “strongly agree”
that the academic workload is stressful; 34% more “agree.” Further, only 15% “strongly agree” with a statement reading “I am
satisfied with my academic performance.” Maybe stress is the primary catalyst here, maybe it’s not. I don’t know that anything
can be done to make people less depressed generally. After all, in the “real world,” there are lots of stressed
out, depressed people. I know this. I just can’t get the whole thing out of my mind. I can easily
opine that we ought not let stress control our lives. Life, after all, is not about the unattainable pursuit of
a 4.0 GPA if the thought of getting out of bed in the morning is revolting. But I’m not completely
sure stress is all to blame. There are surely other factors. One in five Davidson students is depressed. That’s just
not OK.
