12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991

"THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Athletic Director, Terry Holland

By Mark D. Puckett

Davidsonian: Talk about Baker Complex.

Holland: First of all, the Baker Sports Complex is a fantastic facility that has had a very positive impact on campus life and also makes a strong impression on those who visit our campus. There are differing opinions on how it should be used. Many feel that the facility use should be limited only to Davidson students and staff. Others feel that it should be used as a bridge to the larger community, particularly segments of that community that Davidson has had a hard time reaching. Our opinion is that it has to be a combination of both. We are trying different events to find the ones that will yield benefits to Davidson. As an example, the high school tournament in the Belk Arena last weekend brought a large number of people to Davidson who had never seen the campus. Included were many future Davidson students, particularly minorities, who would not have been exposed to Davidson in any other way. This particular event did not generate revenue for Davidson and was an inconvenience for us to administrate but was a very positive overall experience that we want to repeat. Even though it meant overtime work for our staff, inconveniencing those who may have wanted to use the gym at that time, it was definitely a good thing.

Davidsonian: The weight room in the old Johnston Gym stayed open from 8:00 in the morning until 11:00 at night, and though Baker is on a regular schedule now, it was not before, and it made lots of people angry.

Holland: Well, the biggest problem is obviously personnel. We’re dependent almost entirely on work-study students, and, as you know, when the school year starts you have good work-study students, and you have work-study students who don’t take their job as seriously--it’s not that important to them, and it takes a while to weed them out. Basically, we’re operating three times as much space as we had in Johnston Gym, but with the same personnel we had, which creates some severe problems.

Davidsonian: Well, why did we build it in the first place?

Holland: I think all of us feel like it’s a good thing even on a limited basis. We do have problems we have to work with, but it’s worth it. That’s what we all have to keep in front of us. We had a problem with people who want to swim when we were closing the building. Their gripe is that it’s normally open at this time except on the nights of basketball games. But it’s not like our people are closing the building so they can go play golf. During basketball games we just can’t keep certain parts of the building open--the pool, the weight room--because of all the kids running back and forth. Many people come in and just turn their kids loose, and basketball games draw a lot of non-students who are not aware of policies and traditions here such as the Honor Code. People say, “Well, Baker’s normally open at these times except on the days of basketball games: that’s very inconvenient for me.” You’ve got to realize we’re keeping it open until 7:30 (when normally it would close at 5:30) just to make it convenient for you. If closing eight times a year for basketball games is that much of an inconvenience, then we should close it at 5:30 every day so you could get used to it. The problem is that everybody’s going to get bent out of shape when it affects them personally rather than looking at the big picture. We all have to be willing to put up with a little inconvenience in order to maximize use. If not, we'll do like most bigger schools and close down more.

Davidsonian: You seem to spend a lot of time commentating basketball games on ESPN. Just how much time are you spending at Davidson? What can you say that you have done so far?

Holland: Our first concern was trying to make everybody here feel like we were going to go some place with our athletic programs, and the Fall was great; volleyball, field hockey, soccer, football sort of led the way for creating a very good solid spirit here, and our concentration has mainly been in terms of trying to tie this building together and feel good about what we’re doing here. We’re not trying to sell Davidson athletics to the general public, yet. I think our biggest job is internally--get ourselves to the point where we’re competitive and where we have a product we feel good about, then we can go out and sell it to the public. So basically my approach this year has been getting a feel for things--what we need to do with the building, our sports, our money--where it should be spent in the future if we get any money. The next job will be to go out and get the money--the fundraising. I’ve been to many alumni gatherings and represented Davidson at many other functions but will really need to concentrate on fundraising through the Wildcat Club.

Davidsonian: Do you think you are more than just a figurehead?

Holland: Certainly, a big part of my job is projecting Davidson athletics to the general public, which would include commentating on ESPN, and while that has been time-consuming it’s good exposure for Davidson. My being at Virginia as coach last year was good exposure for Davidson because every time a telecast came on they’d say, “Terry Holland will be at Davidson College next year.” Every bit of exposure you can get today is obviously important. A lot of people will only know Davidson through Davidson athletics, and unfortunately that has been a tremendous negative in recent years. We've at least started turning that...into a positive. The more exposure we can get—this midnight commentating on ESPN—that’s the best we can do right now. We’d like to see Davidson on ESPN, but we’ll take it a step at a time. Those contacts there will pay us big dividends in the future.

Photo by Chris Lee

Davidsonian: Are we going to stay in the Big South?

Holland: Our charge from the Trustees recognizes that right now inter-collegiate athletics is a very clouded picture. Nobody knows what the next convention will bring, nobody knows the impact it’s going to have on Davidson, nobody knows what kind of impact it’s going to have on Big South or the Southern. So the Trustees have said to us to keep all possible options open, which would include Division I in the Big South where we are now, Division I in the Southern, and a possible move to Division III if that becomes necessary. What we’ve come up with is that Davidson probably does have more of a Division III philosophy. I would not want to see us marshal all of our resources into two or three sports to remain Division I; I want us to continue to offer as many intercollegiate athletic opportunities to the total student body as we can reasonably do.

For instance, we’re trying to add men’s and women’s swimming without any operational increase, so that means something has to give—the swimmers and the people working with the swim team have to understand that everything they’re getting is coming from someone else. It’s not going to be perfect and they will have to make sacrifices to make it work.

Davidsonian: Why has the Lake Campus been so passed over?

Holland: It’s a step-child. The athletic department has been given it, but they’ve been given no funding to operate it. When I came in I said, wow, we’ve got this fantastic property and it still looks like this? We literally have no way to manage it. It’s not geographically attached to us and we don’t have the money. The only thing we’re trying to do is keep it alive, and the only way we can do that is with the help of a lot of people. We do want it to stay alive. Our deed says we own the land but we only own it if we use it for specific purposes. In other words, what exactly can we do with it? I’ve asked for advice on possible uses that would enable us to generate some revenue. When the lake was formed they actually gave us the property, but it’s got a contingency that says we have to use it for certain recreational purposes. If we violate that, it reverts back to the owner. So as long as we make it legitimate [building something out there like Erwin Lodge for example] we shouldn’t have any problems. But that’s five years down the road before we get to that.

Davidsonian: Explain the “No-hats” policy in the weight room.

Holland: Obviously an article of clothing is a person’s individual preference as long as it’s a necessary article, but in the weight room I’ve seen many times guys lifting weights that knock their hat off and the guy spotting is picking up the hat rather than continuing to spot. They really have no place in the weight room. We want you to look like you’ve come in here to lift weights. It’s a matter of courtesy, it’s a matter of manners and seriousness of purpose, and there is a safety factor. If we're forced to argue about that, we’ll obviously be bogged down forever. The next thing we’ll have is people wanting to wear sunglasses, having medical excuses for not having to wear shoes, etc. It is amazing how petty and self-centered people can be. We do not ask a great deal and if this is too much to ask to use the weight room, then we’ll never be able to manage the building because we’ll spend all our time trying to justify everything we do. It’s not like we require tennis whites on the courts or a standard issue uniform for the weight room. I regard this building as our classroom and I expect you to show a seriousness of purpose and a willingness to be part of what goes on here. Again, we don’t ask a lot but that doesn’t mean that the few rules we have should not be followed.

Davidsonian: But Davidson is a reaction school as opposed to an action school. Any small argument is fodder for greater arguments.

Holland: There’s no question about it. And the biggest problem here is how to communicate. It’s been the most frustrating thing for us so far. We’ve tried everything: the paper, notes in the faculty boxes. The difference between Davidson as I knew it and Davidson now is that, as much as we hated Chapel, there’s no time the student body ever gets together so that things get said and talked about. That was a very valuable thing. The fact was, we got together three times a week, and if the student body needed to talk, the opportunity was there.

Davidsonian: What are your ultimate goals?

Holland: Again, our approach this year has been a lot of probing and feeling to find out what we are. I don’t pretend to have a complete handle on it, but I think we're headed in a good direction. Finances around here are tight. We're spending a lot of money, but the building’s a nice convenience to have. We just want to justify our uses. We have good people. My job is to find out what they can do for us—see what people fit in what slots. You'd like to be able to recruit the people you want, but we have to make the best uses of the people we have here. And a large part of my job is as a figure-head representing the college and the athletic department to the community-at-large.