10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

Campus

Junior Anthony Foxx Travels to South Africa

By Kim Munsterman

Junior Anthony Foxx flips through his slides of his visit to South Africa this summer. Among picturesque scenes of Capetown
and its surrounding mountains, the blue water of the coast, and busy Johannesburg, Foxx also shares slides of crowded shanty
towns without plumbing or electricity, and pictures of children of a black township playing around a massive garbage pile. It
is this vast disparity between white and black areas that left a dramatic impression on Foxx.

“People ask me how my trip to South Africa was and I don’t know what to say; it was good
and bad, beautiful and ugly,” reflects Foxx.

Foxx had been hoping to visit South Africa for some time; this summer, only days after U.S. sanctions were lifted,
Foxx left for Johannesburg, accompanied by a classmate’s father who works for the National Institute for Trial Advocacy. The Institute
“works with black South African lawyers to teach them better trial skills,” Foxx explains.

Foxx arrived in South Africa not knowing exactly what he would be doing, but found work with the Black Lawyer
Association. Over the course of his four-week stay, he edited the South African Law Review, while studying the legal system
there. Living with the executive director of the Black Lawyer Association in Kew, a predominantly white suburb of Johannesburg, Foxx
states that he “didn’t get the black township experience.” Yet Foxx recalls his drive to and from work every day
and the vans he saw “filled with black people certainly beyond a capacity legal in the U.S. These were taxis
taking people to work; I was sad to realize that not only can these people not afford cars, but they
are only provided with minimal standards of transportation.”

Foxx was also affected by his visit to Crossroads, “a part of a township in Capetown where the poorest of
the poor live.” His slide shows an area where homes remain submerged in flood waters during the rainy season and
where fires are lit in the streets for warmth. “This is a designated area for black people and the economic
reality is that they can’t afford to leave,” he explains.

Reflecting on his experience, Foxx comments, “As an American and after seeing what I saw, I wanted to know how
the nation I live in could be a player in this. As a student, I felt I was in the
60’s because of the ideas being kicked around and the sense of purpose everyone has. It was great to see
liberation in its genesis.” Adds Foxx, “As a human being, I felt very sad, seeing how people treat one another.
And as a black person, I felt hopeful because in every conversation I had the subject was apartheid. Students, lawyers,
everyone was talking about it. Black people have a sense of unity in that they are all trying to liberate
themselves. That’s hopeful.”

India Program Sends a Seventh Group to Madras

By Leigh McKeever

Late Friday night while most students were settling in for yet another weekend at Davidson, fifteen students said goodbye to
their families and friends and boarded Lufthansa airline for a 16-hour flight to Madras, India.

The Semester-in-India program was started in 1979 on an alternative semester basis, this being the 7th semester. The program is
intended for Juniors, Seniors, and occasionally Sophomores. Applicants are required to have a minimum GPA of 2.75 and should have
completed at least one course in South Asian studies.

During the past two weeks, Thomas, who is from Madras and an alumnus of Madras Christian College, has directed a
10-day intensive academic program on campus to prepare students for the next few months. Sessions, lasting from 9 am to
3 or 5 pm, included lectures by Dr. Ratliff and Dr. Mahoney, and Heather Vijayathilakan, who is from Madras.

Robert Phillips, '94: “I was interested in the East and had taken Dr. Thomas’s survey of Asian Art. Chapel Wescoat,
Jane Mount, Robin French, Sean MacMillan, Robert Phillips, and Wallace Sanders enjoy a farewell reception in Vail Commons before taking
off for Madras. Rooming with Deepak got me interested in the India program, and actually, I was interested in the
India program even before I came to Davidson. I requested an Indian or international roommate, and so now I’m going
to be living with his family in Madras. I enjoyed being with him.”McGarrah, '93: I figured that India is not
your normal vacation destination; I’ve been to Europe and I feel that I can handle that by myself, but India...
I thought would be a little bit more difficult on my own. Students will be living and studying on the
campus of Madras Christian College until November 8th, at which time they will begin to travel throughout India. During their
first 15 days of travel, the program will be traveling as a group to Delhi, Agra, Fatehpur Sikri, Jaipur, Ellora
and Ajanta caves, Bombay, and Varanasi. They will then have 15 days of independent trekking and travel time. Leading the
program is Prof. Job Thomas, director of South Asian Studies.

At a reception Friday in the Commons, several students offered comments regarding their expectations for the next four months:

Davidsonian: What made you decide on participating in the India program?

Wallace Sanders, '93: One thing that’s really interesting is that my roommate freshman year, Deepak, had discussions about practical information.

Suneya Gupta, '94: It’s a really good program, as it mixes a nice amount of academics and travel. Also, since
my parents are from India, I have a very real interest.

See "India" on page 11.

What Exactly is Elox, Anyway?
By David Smyth

The first landmark that greets visitors and new students on a visit to Davidson is not anything college-owned or operated;
it is a sign that reads “ELOX: An Agie Group Company.” Thousands of Davidsonians have driven by this seemingly innocuous
sign for years without knowing exactly what went on behind the red brick exterior. Today the mystery behind the sign
stands exposed.

The Elox Corporation, says Product Manager Glenn Coggins, manufactures electronic discharge machines, or EDMs. In layman’s terms, this means that
they drill amazingly intricate shapes and holes into metal with electronic particles, thus avoiding touching the final product. The aerospace
and medical industries use these machines to produce, among other things, hearing implants with tiny apertures for sound intake and
threads. These EDMs also make rubber molds for shoe soles and wire significantly thinner than human hair. So you can
likely attribute the springy comfort of your brand new $200 Nike running shoes to a shoe mold produced by an
Elox machine.

Elox was born in 1943 when it bought out a similar business in Detroit and set up shop in Troy,
Michigan. The Davidson office was opened in 1961, employing fifteen people and spanning 18,000 square feet. At the time, Ford,
General Electric, and General Motors were their largest customers. In 1970, the Troy office closed up and moved the whole
shebang to Davidson, doubling the warehouse space to 36,000 square feet and also adding 12,000 feet of office area. Agie
USA Ltd. bought out Elox in 1988 and it stands as a gleaming shrine to corporate America today.

When approached about this story, Mr. Coggins joked, “Well, most of our spouses don’t know exactly what we do here.”
The front desk secretary concurred, adding, “I’ve heard that we work for the government, that we’re spies...” Meanwhile, they keep
producing and testing their electronic drills, doing applications research to keep with industry demands, and scaring little kids that make
funny faces up against their windows.

Marc Overcash: Archives On Beanies, Freshmen, And Codes of Days Past

“Do you still have to say hello to everyone you pass by?”

“I’m sorry?”

“You know. That rule. You have to greet everyone and tip your hats to professors.”

“I’m sorry, sir, I’m not sure what you are talking about.”

“And the beanies. Tell me they still wear those beanies.”

“Bean-what?”

He stopped. He stared at my bare head and my purple high-tops that squashed the green grass. “Son,” he cocked
an eye towards me, “Are you from Davidson College?”

Not from the Davidson College he remembers.

If, as Dr. Thomas and Thomas Hardy suggest, suffering builds a moral conscience, then the freshmen before the class of
1971 were tortured into fine gentlemen. In their student handbook, the freshmen found a list of rules patterned after the
Ten Commandments with a few more thou shalt nots tacked on. When they arrived on campus, some freshmen classes received
a poster kindly reminding them of the rules they were to follow.

Furthermore, in 1923 the students created a Court of Control to “instill in the new members of the student body
the spirit of the true Davidson gentleman” (Handbook of 1954-5). Any violations of the rules were to be addressed by
this court.

See "Archives" on page 12.
