THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991 15

Cross Country Trained And Ready
By Richard Wharton

The Davidson Cross Country team went on a retreat the weekend of the 24th and 25th to continue their preparations
for the upcoming season. Using the Holston Presbyterian Retreat in Banner Elk, North Carolina as home base, the Davidson harriers
ran workouts along the Blue Ridge Parkway near Grandfather Mountain, and along the mountain roads nearby. Everyone appeared exhausted but
talk was enthusiastic about the upcoming season.

Coach Gary Andrew has been preparing each runner with an individual training program, and the assistance of Coach Beth Manson
in the weight room is helping these runners achieve their physical best. The freshmen have learned the technical meaning of
VOM (Maximum Volume of Oxygen Intake) and AT (Anaerobic Threshold). The Wildcats are using these training techniques to increase their
runners’ performance, durability, and power. Accompanied with quality bases of distance mileage that was run over the summer, the ‘Cats
will be better prepared to meet the challenges and climb the hills out on the cross country courses of the
South. Seniors Kathy Beach and Chris Otrok should use their experience and considerable talents to lead the team. Davidson’s first
competition is this weekend at the Davidson Alumni Race, where this year’s team will compete against Davidson Alumni.

Fagg Takes One Step At A Time
By Bruce Page

Davidson head football coach Dave Fagg says there is only one game on the Wildcats’ schedule this year: September 7
at Guilford College. That’s as far ahead as he wants his team to focus, anyway. Fagg says that if Davidson
is to equal last year’s impressive 6-3 record, the players will have to look at one and only one game
at a time.

Davidson’s football players returned to preseason camp on August 11, and from then until August 24 the coaching staff held
a minimum of two practices a day, such that the team is now, according to Fagg, “mentally and physically ready
to go.” He also said that the ‘Cats came to camp in great shape, with all of the starters injury-free.
The 1991 schedule consists of 9 games, five of them against teams that Davidson played last year. The Wildcats came
out on top in four of those five games.

The team’s divisional status is still in limbo. Davidson, as an athletic program, rejoined the Southern Conference, but the NCAA
has not yet finalized their rulings on the status of small schools like Davidson. Davidson football is currently a Division
III team waiting for Division I-AAA status. The ‘Cats lost 10 starters to graduation and a few more players to
attrition, but this year’s roster has as many players as did last year’s. Davidson returns 25 lettermen, including 7 seniors.
Among those returning lettermen are 6 offensive starters, 7 defensive starters, and the kicker/punter. Fagg says that the class of
‘95 is a solid recruiting class which should fulfill the depth void left by the players who left last year.
He is particularly pleased with the depth at the quarterback, where sophomore Richard Howell is the incumbent starter, backed up
by senior Matt Matheny and two freshmen.

Volleyball Seeks Title In Big South Swan Song

By Bruce Page

After a 31-6 season which featured winning streaks of 10 and 14 games and three tournament titles, you would think
that the Davidson volleyball team would have very little left to prove. Yet coach Rebecca Hawkins (last year’s Big South
Coach of the Year) says that this year’s team is distinguished by an obvious “hunger.” That hunger stems from the
team’s disappointment at second place finishes last year in both the Big South regular season and tournament. Every player returns
from that team, the winningest in school history in any sport, and Hawkins reports that “everybody wants that title.”

Standing in their way is a bulked-up schedule that includes more non-conference opponents and a conference full of teams that
have, as Hawkins says, put the ‘Cats “on their hit list.” There is no doubt that the team has the
full attention of the Big South. A poll of the conference’s volleyball coaches and sports information directors picked Davidson to
finish first. But Hawkins, while pleased at the accolade, concedes that there is “not a whole lot of value” in
such polls. After all, last year’s team was predicted to finish sixth by the same preseason poll.

This year’s Wildcats, though, are a logical first-place pick. Leading the returning cast are senior co-captains (and four-year starters) Mimi
Plauche and Holt Hathaway. Plauche, a middle hitter, and Hathaway, a setter, were given the moniker “The Freshman Connection” in
1988, and since then have practically become synonymous with Davidson Volleyball. Last year, both were named to the All-Big South
first team and to four all-tournament teams, but were perhaps most effective in their roles as Hawkins’ “on-the-court coaches.”

Amy Howard was Davidson’s top freshman a year ago, and returns to wreak havoc at her outside hitter position. Juniors
Catherine Milligan and Janet Delery (the Most Improved Player in 1990) and senior sparkplug Christy Knight should also see plenty
of time at outside hitter. At middle hitter, Plauche is aided by junior Jennie Wagner and sophomore Katherine Anderson. Time
behind Hathaway at setter should be shared by freshman Lorie Logan and sophomore Jennifer Guise, while junior defensive specialist Rachel
Thompson will make her customary intense contribution in the backcourt.Next game on the schedule. His long-term goals are financial independence
for the team and an undefeated season. And who knows; two years ago a 6-3 season seemed an impossibility.

The bulk of the ‘Cats competition for the conference crown should come from Radford (19-16 last year) and UNC-Asheville (16-18
in 1990). Both the Highlanders, who won the Big South Tournament last season, and the Bulldogs, who took the regular
season title, return 4 starters and 7 lettermen. Conference newcomers Liberty, who went 17-15 and advanced to the finals of
the East Coast Athletic Conference Tournament a year ago, could also make a bid for the championship.

The non-conference portion of the schedule will make a record like last year’s very difficult to attain, but should help
to raise the program to a higher level. The Wildcats face future Southern Conference opponents Furman and Appalachian State, in
addition to strong teams like Georgia Tech, Tennessee-Martin, and UNC-Greensboro.

You would expect a little bit of complacency in the team after such a successful season, but quite the opposite,
the ‘Cats are united in the pursuit of a common goal. For while being the preseason number one choice is
nice, as Hawkins says, “we want to be first legitimately in November.”

Big Changes For Women's Soccer

The 1991 season promises to be a year of change for the women’s soccer team as they continue to improve
in their third year as a varsity program. Changes are also assured because the team is under the direction of
new coach Kevin Hundley. Hundley, who just arrived at Davidson in August, took over for Diane Boettcher. Hundley has worked
at Davidson for the past ten years in connection with men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle’s soccer camps. “I know Davidson
College and Davidson students,” said Hundley. “That is an advantage. I wasn’t as unprepared or as unknowing as it might
seem.”

Despite the rapid transition and the relative unfamiliarity of the situation, Hundley still has high expectations for the team. Hundley
projects a positive tone and patience that should mesh well with a Wildcat squad dominated by freshmen and sophomores. “My
expectations are that the program will continue to grow as we become a legitimate Division I program,” said Hundley.

The Wildcats will play a varied schedule ranging from an ACC team to a club team. This wide scope makes
numerical predictions for wins and losses difficult. Davidson was 7-10-1 last year. Hundley does not want to emphasize the team’s
record, but would like to see the team progress in less tangible ways. Hundley cited games with Radford and Erskine
as key tests of how the ‘Cats are improving. In the first two years of competition, Radford and Erskine have
both handed Davidson lopsided defeats. “We can still lose and feel good about it if we can narrow the gaps
in games like those,” said Hundley.

Early season matchups against Duke (Sept. 25 at home) and UNC-Greensboro (Oct. 1 at Greensboro), one of the top Division
II programs in the country last year, will also show the Wildcats where they stand and hopefully where the program
can head. Hundley is optimistic for the future of the program. “The Athletic Department and the school have made a
serious commitment to build a legitimate program here,” said Hundley. “They have given us the financial and administrative support to
make it successful.”

Hundley has used the first week of practice to get to know the players and to evaluate the talent. “I’ve
been really happy with the team’s reaction to the change. They have done everything I’ve asked of them,” said Hundley.
The team is made up of 14 freshmen and sophomores and only seven juniors and seniors. Second-year captain senior Liz
Clarke should lead the team both on and off the field. She will be helped offensively by freshman Ellen Sprinkle.
The other senior captain, Annie Adams, will control the midfield along with Ann Todd and Susan Taylor. Jenny Satterfield will
anchor the defense and try to keep the ball away from Courtney Robertson or freshman Liz Schaper in goal. “Both
players will see time in goal until one clearly emerges,” said Hundley. “But there are several back-to-back games in the
schedule, which should give them both an opportunity to play.”

The team should play an aggressive but controlled style of soccer, which Hundley hopes to encourage by not dwelling on
mistakes. “We are going to try to possess the ball in terms of style,” said Hundley. “I want the mistakes
to be made trying to do things in a positive way, rather than a negative way.” With a roster full
of young players and the college’s new commitment to women’s athletics, Hundley is right in his assessment that the women’s
soccer program is a team with a future.

Hockey Continued From Page 14

Coleman, who allowed only 2 goals a game in her freshman campaign, will provide the backbone for the defense. Largely
because of the intense schedule they will face this year, the ‘Cats are looking toward the season with a tinge
of uncertainty. “There is so much pressure to come together as a team,” said Roos, “but we can do it.”
“This will be an expanding year for us,” said Pryor. “Our record may not reflect the same success as last
year’s in wins and losses.” Nevertheless, she expects that “our play will be much better at the end of the
year against the tougher teams.”
