THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991 15

Women's Tennis Stays On a Roll
by Larry Dagenhart

As the Davidson women’s tennis team took the Coosawhatchie River exit 28 off of Interstate 95 on their way to Hilton Head Island for its spring break, coach Caroline Price was convinced that there was “something a bit magical” about crossing a river with such a name. She was definitely onto something. The Coosa Indians, a disunited but powerful tribe living in the South Carolina lowcountry around the mid-18th century, must have spiritually conveyed some of their tenacity to the tennis team in helping them win six out of seven matches during the break.

In the weeks before, the Wildcats had been playing what coach Price had called “10 days of tired tennis,” no doubt in part owing to the effect of 11 straight weeks of classes. The trip to Hilton Head proved to be the perfect remedy, for, with some outstanding individual performances, the team came together and knocked off a number of tough opponents. Davidson defeated Cornell 6-3, Cincinnati 7-2, and Marshall, Bowling Green, and Xavier each by a score of 8-1. Their only loss came against Columbia, a team which had been playing on the island all of the previous week. Still, the Columbia match included three 3-setters in singles and a couple of strong 2-setters in doubles.

“Xavier and Bowling Green should have been close,” said a beaming Price. “But we were stronger physically and emotionally and we got 8-1 wins instead of 5-4. Collectively, everyone performed well so the team reached a new level. They were great to watch and everyone was operating on all cylinders,” she added.

The team continued to get strong performances from Sarah Melson and Mary Beth Ruth. “Sarah has put together matches emotionally. She’s improving in her ability to focus, giving her strong wins,” commented coach Price. “Mary Beth is consistently beating more talented players than herself. She has this tremendous will to win which is physically manifested. She will literally will a match into the win column.”

Men's Tennis
Continued from Page 14

before finishing the trip against ACC opponent N.C. State. Davidson went 2-3 for the week, running their season record to 13-12, 5-2 in Big South play. The ‘Cats opened the week with a 6-3 victory at Winthrop. The Wildcats led 4-2 after the singles and sealed the victory by winning two out of the three doubles matches. Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer, playing at number one doubles, won their match after being down 5-4 in the third.

Davidson had an easy match at Augusta, posting a 9-0 shutout. Strong performances were turned in by Zabell at number three singles and Dale Voeks and Patrick Jopling at number two doubles. Zabell fought off two match points in getting his win, while Voeks and Jopling erased a 5-4 deficit in the third set.

Coastal Carolina proved to be a tougher opponent than Augusta, and the Chanticleers defeated Davidson 5-4. Coastal Carolina’s lineup was strengthened by several foreign players. Coach Jeff Frank saw the match slip away with a three-set defeat of Zabell and Beyer at number one doubles. He was pleased with Albie Varoski’s play in a tough three-set loss to Coastal’s number one player, who has points on the pro tour. “They are having a tough time finishing off their matches right now,” said Frank. “I think they may have a lack of confidence.”

The match against defending conference champion Campbell was not a confidence booster for the Wildcats. Campbell defeated Davidson 8-1. “Campbell is an older, experienced team and they have a lot of talent,” said Frank. Joey Manibo turned in Davidson’s only win at number six singles, keeping his undefeated conference record intact. Manibo finished the season 7-0. Russell Briggs had an excellent 6-1 mark in conference play.

The four conference matches drained Davidson and the Wildcats let another chance to defeat an ACC team slip away as they lost to N.C. State. After finishing the singles tied 3-3, only the team of Varoski and Dave Jespersen managed to win their doubles match.

Volleyball
Continued from Page 13

ments at UNCC and UNCG, the squad notched wins against Catawba and Liberty, while playing to about a .500 record. “The greatest problem this time of year is inconsistency,” explained Hawkins, who allowed that the team’s sparse practice schedule explains much of that. Hawkins has noticed particularly the improvement of sophomore Jennie Wagner and freshmen Amy Howard and Jen Guise.

Next year’s strengthened schedule threatens to hand the Wildcats some lumps, and Hawkins says she would be “pleased with a .500 season” next fall. But all the elements are present for another successful season, and it won’t be very surprising if the team spends a great deal of time receiving awards again next fall.and the ‘Cats lost 5-4. “We didn’t have much left after playing four matches in five days,” said Frank. “But I was happy to see that we weren't intimidated by State.” The Wildcats play at UNCC Monday in a rescheduled match and they are at home again on Friday against East Tennessee and next Monday against UNC-Greensboro. The team must win 2 of its last 4 matches to provide coach Frank with his 20th consecutive .500 or better season.

Manson Continued from Page 14

seen the benefits because of Beth.” Her presence is certainly improving Davidson athletics, but Manson still sees the difficulties of Davidson’s situation. She commented that “Davidson is Division I but we’re not run like a Division I program.” In addition, she spoke of several improvements that are needed; namely, a bigger weight room, a complete fitness center with bikes and stairmasters and, finally, a separate weight room for students and athletes. Manson also urges students to have patience with the weight room in terms of hours. She knows the hours are not the best but hopes students understand the liability problems and the unpredictability of work-study students. Despite the desperate need for improvements, Manson enjoys many aspects about Davidson: knowing most of the hard-working athletes, the people and students we have here and, most importantly, the size of the school. “I went to both (small and large schools) and would rather stay in the small college atmosphere,” she said. Finally, Manson hopes to debunk the stereotype of the “de-feminization” of women who happen to be weightlifters or athletes in general. She commented that “being muscular and strong doesn’t make you less of a woman. I hope that women will see that they can come in and lift and not ‘lose’ anything.”

Swimming and Diving Team Returns

Courtesy of Sports Information

Davidson Athletic Director Terry Holland and Aquatics Director Ron Morrow announced Thursday that the Wildcats would begin fielding a Division I swimming and diving team in the fall of 1991. The team will compete in a minimum of ten meets spread out over the course of the school year. Possible opponents include Duke, Georgia Tech, Virginia Tech, and UNCC. “It was really just a matter of time,” said Holland, “before we reimplemented the swimming and diving program after we moved into Baker Sports Complex. The Cannon Pool gives us a top-notch facility to compete in, and we’re all looking forward to renewing traditional rivalries and beginning new ones.” “We're all very excited about the return of swimming and diving to Davidson,” said Morrow. “We had a very successful club team this past year, and the addition of a strong recruiting class should help us return the swimming and diving program to the most competitive level possible.”

TUXEDO RENTALS
WEDDING ACCESSORIES & SERVICES
All Occasions
Town Square Cornelius, NC
892-9129
M—F 10-6 Thurs 10-8 Sat 10-4

If it’s all Greek to you... Come study the ancient languages with those who will help you apply them to today’s contemporary issues. Our graduates go on to serve in pastoral ministry, counseling, youth ministry, family ministry, urban ministry, and a great variety of other Christian vocations, as well as teaching in colleges and seminaries. We offer eleven MA programs (including Counseling, Youth Ministry, and Christian Education), the Master of Divinity, and the Master of Theology, and we offer competitive financial aid packages. Call us today to learn more about these programs. You may even want to begin with our Independent Study Program offered by correspondence.

Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary
130 Essex Street, South Hamilton, Massachusetts 01982
Call 1-800-428-7329

The London School of Economics & Political Science
INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL IN ECONOMICS
1 July - 9 August, 1991

Intensive, high quality short course programme
Courses led by senior members of LSE Economics Faculty and distinguished visiting professors from Yale and the London Business School
Structured teaching methods - including tuition in small class groups
Recognised by the Graduate School at the LSE and other leading graduate programmes
A prestigious international arena - in 1990 260 delegates enrolled from 45 countries

First Session July 1-July 19
Second Session July 22-August 9
Introductory Macroeconomics
Introductory Microeconomics
Principles of Accounting
Mathematics for Economists
Intermediate Macroeconomics
Introduction to Econometrics
Business Strategy
Finance
Advanced Economic Analysis
Economics of European Integration
Development Economics
Intermediate Microeconomics
Economics of Transition

All courses offer 50 contact hours and are examined and accredited. The LSE is accredited by major universities throughout North America. Accommodation: available in LSE residences in central London and prestigious Docklands locations.

Further Details from:
The Programme Director
International Summer School in Economics
London School of Economics, Houghton Street
London WC2A 2AE
Tel: 071 955 7554
Fax: 071 831 1840