12 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

On Skunk Meat & Women's Rights

Strange things are afoot in the Davidsonian. After weeks of heated debate sparked by an unbelievably juvenile letter from some
cretins who claimed to be Queens students, the opinions from the populous here seem to be converging on the notion
that men and women are equal, and that violence against women (like any other type of violence) is a bad,
bad thing. Boy, are we ever on the cutting edge of social commentary. What will our consensus be next -
that people should come inside when it starts raining? Or will that issue be too cloudy (if you’ll forgive the
pun)?

Debate last week began on an equally moot issue - whether or not Davidson’s administration should applaud the college’s placement
in Buckley’s conservative guide to liberal arts schools, or guide to conservative liberal arts schools, or literary guide to conservative
art schools, or whatever it was. The point is, we’re in the guide based on Davidson’s position at the time
it was written. If the administration wants to avoid placement in the next such guide, or wants to strive to
make it into whatever guide Oberlin is in, then they should act accordingly. But placement in Buckley’s guide is now
a matter of history; and no matter how much we'd like to, we can’t change history. We can only shape
the future.

I have taken the time to trivialize these issues because there are other vastly more important ones to be discussed.
The whole community here is threatened by a force possibly more sinister than the fleshy-headed mutant in Class of Nuke’Em
High. And, like the foolish students and teachers at Nuke’Em High, most of us here are innocently ignorant of this
grave danger: the evil Laundry - Commons - Sparrow’s Nest triangle.

By writing this I intend to educate, not to frighten. But the matter is truly frightening. The stench of evil
emanating from the small plot of land between these three buildings is permeating the whole campus, and may overtake the
town if the source is not destroyed. Please understand that I write these words at my own peril. The last
crusader that attempted to expose the evils of the underground empire that controls Davidson mysteriously disappeared when he started to
get too close to the truth.

The dreaded Auxiliary Services are obviously up to no good. The recent surge in theft of short black skirts from
the laundry’s dry-cleaning rack and the overpowering aroma of skunk leaking from the Sparrow’s Nest are too much of a
coincidence to be overlooked. I have suspected this sort of thing all along, but dared not believe until last week’s
“chicken” tacos at the Commons. Now it is clear to me what is happening. Somewhere beneath us in the Auxiliary
Services laboratories they are conducting genetic research on skunks in an attempt to make skunk meat palatable, and in the
process they have created a giant mutant skunk with a taste for black skirts and other dry-cleanables. Rumor has it
that the biology department has been called in to help find and destroy the escaped mutant. Perhaps we will survive
this time.

While this whole skunk fiasco is a tragedy in itself, I must emphasize that this is only a symptom of
a much greater disease: the unbridled activities of the intentionally nebulously-titled Auxiliary Services. It is my hope that we as
students can stop wasting our energies on such hackneyed issues as the rights of women vs. those of men and
the merits of conservatism vs. those of liberalism, and focus on the real threats at hand.

Athletics Continued from Page 6

Do you realize who your column offends? Players - who not only practice and play but go to class as
well. Administrators - are you saying that all of the efforts of Terry Holland’s athletic department are worthless? Families -
who are so proud that their sons or daughters are Davidson student-athletes. And, Coaches - who put in ten to
fifteen hour days to make their program the best it can be.

Go ahead, tell the football team, women’s and men’s soccer teams, the field hockey team, basketball team, men’s and women’s
cross country and track teams, women’s volleyball team, wrestling team, baseball team, golf team, men’s and women’s tennis teams, club
teams, and intramurals that nobody cares about them and all of their efforts do not matter.

Ask any player how it feels to make a key shot and hear the crowd cheer. It’s an exclamation point,
a seal of approval. It is a statement that my efforts have paid off and other people can take pleasure
in them. There is nothing worse than a fair-weather fan, unless it is an apathetic one. It is easy to
say “I don’t care” or “I only see them when they win.” But it is hard to be a fan,
to suffer the agonizing losses and revel in the tremendous wins. Teams need fans most when times are tough because
‘everybody loves a winner’. Support the Davidson teams and give them a chance because they are all winners.

By the way, most Davidson sporting events don’t even require a ticket. If you need a ticket, here is an
easy solution to your problem. You can take your coffee, cigarettes and ID and walk over to the Sports Complex,
(that’s if it isn’t too much of a stretch).matter. While you’re at it, maybe you should condemn every extracurricular activity
on the Davidson campus. Maybe you should stop writing for the tradition-rich Davidsonian. After all, doing so would be supporting
a “wholesome expression of college pep.” I take your comments as a personal affront. I am a student and an
athlete at Davidson and have been for four years. I enjoy competing, playing, and yes, even exercising. I enjoy working
hard and being rewarded for my efforts.

Sincerely,
RALPH ISERNIA '91
Captain, Football & Baseball
February 13, 1991

Oh yeah, if you decide to go to the game that night, please remember that alcoholic beverages and smoking are
prohibited (sorry). If you go into withdrawal, medical personnel are on hand to assist you. If you don’t want to
cheer for a team, don’t come to a game. But if you want to support a team, I’m sure they
would love to have you in the stands. I know I would.

Beyond Birkenstock, Gender Studies In Verse: Not NOW (Well, the Birkenstock boys have not gone crazy, just a little light
fun and then back to politics next week. No offense to those fine gals down at the National Organization for
Women--keep up the good work!)

A good example of the quality found in Gender Studies in Great Literature: Poetry 101.

Rantin’ and Raven

Once upon a weekend dreary, while I slumbered, weak and weary
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten bore (The Davidsonian)
While I nodded, brain a’ clanging, suddenly there came a banging,
As of someone yet haranguing, banging at my chamber door.
“Tis a seller,” muttered I, “with donuts cheap and bad tie-dyes—
Only this, and nothing more.”

When out in the hall, there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from my bed to see what was the matter.
The moon on the breast of the babe on the wall,
gave the luster of mid-day to my intoxicant hall.

Presently my soul grew stronger, hesitating then no longer,
“Sir,” said I, “or Madam, truly your existence I deplore;
But the fact is I was napping, and so rudely you came rapping,
And so insistent was your tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
Scarce sure am I that I believe you”—here I opened wide the door,—
Womyn (gender neutral “y”) there, and nothing more.

I wasn't sure just what to say; I like babes, though most are bores,
In their silence and defiance blocking at my open door,
I resolved them o’er to question, quoth I, “Note you this my furrowed brow”
I see your buttons, you’re from NOW--state your purpose, make it good--
She said “Good cause for those who would,”--Stood I there in anxious waiting for them something to implore--forbid their bleeding
hearts to pour.

Yet the womyn, standing lonely in the placid dust, spoke only
Those few words, as if her soul in that one phrase she did outpour.
Nothing further then she uttered—not a paper then she fluttered—
Till I could stand no more, and muttered, “What dost thou want on this bleak night, your organization, known to
the right,
Believe me now in what I say, you'll get no money, now GO AWAY!”
Quoth the womyn, “Nevermore.”

I’ve never seen a purple duck, nor pig, nor goat, nor cow.
Yet stood before me—I can’t believe it; yet somehow—
at my door, yep, a rep from NOW—I’d never hoped to see one.
But I can tell you anyhow, I'd rather see than be one.

Back to my room in anger burning, sleep my only lucid yearning
When again I heard that rapping something louder than before.
“Surely,” said I, “this is someone sent to curse me, quite unlike the one who nursed me”; despite less noble
true intention; craven caving to convention I opened up my chamber door.
Open here I flung the portal, “What, pray femme, is your entreaty?” (One was thin, the other meaty)
“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!--prophet still, if dame or devil!
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore
Desolate, yet all undaunted, on this desert hall enchanted—
On this Home by horror haunted—tell me truly, I implore—
Is there—is there balm in Gilead?—tell me—tell me, I implore?
Quoth the womyn, “Literature.”

And with that word, in full emotion, came their pamphlets in one motion;
Fleeting past my face and through me (I break her arm, she'll surely sue me)
thrust she her tract at me in earnest, though all the fires in hell’s dark furnace, could not char them
o’er ‘nough for me.
Spoke I thus and thought of lore “Get thee hence, a nunnery.”
Quoth the womyn, “Nevermore.”

“Be that word our sign of parting, babe or fiend!” I shrieked, upstarting—
“Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore!
Leave no black page as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
Pill my peaceful quiet unbroken—quit thy face from out my door!
Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy trash from off my floor!”
Quoth the womyn, “Sexist pig.”

With special thanks to Wilson “deLovely” Hardcastle and equally special apologies to Edgar Allan Poe, Ogden Nash, and that guy
(or gal) that wrote The Night Before Christmas (and everybody else we offended—not that we care, it’s a legal thing).
