THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING Monday, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

15

Renowned Poet Sharon Olds Will Appear Thursday

By Libby Mills
Courtesy of College Relations

Sharon Olds, one of the most popular contemporary poets in the world, will read from her work at Davidson College
on Thursday, November 21. The event is free and open to the public, beginning at 7:30 p.m. in the 900
Room of the Union.

Olds is widely recognized for her television appearance on Bill Moyers’s 1989 PBS program, “The Power of the Word.” She
has given readings of her work, which boldly probes intimate private experience and calls for conscientious public attention, at more
than 100 of the finest colleges and universities nationwide, as well as the Library of Congress, the Folger Shakespeare Library,
and the National Council on the Arts in Washington, D.C. Olds’s poems frequently appear in The New Yorker, The Paris
Review, The Nation, Poetry, and other magazines. Olds also leads workshops around the country. It was at the Geraldine R.
Dodge Festival that Bill Moyers taped her for use in his PBS series on poetry.

The 1991 edition of the Norton Introduction to Literature contains nine poems by Olds, more than by Ezra Pound or
Sylvia Plath, Wallace Stevens or W.H. Auden. Her poetry has been translated into French, Italian, Chinese, Russian, and Estonian.

Stephen Yenser, writing in The Yale Review, said of Olds’s poems in The Gold Cell, “Olds characteristically shoulders nuance aside
and goes straight at her subjects. Her work is chock-full of striking metaphors that are rarely delicate, never precious.”

Publishers Weekly said of her work, “She has the cathartic power, fury and righteousness of a Medea, an Antigone of
our time.”

Born in San Francisco in 1942, Olds earned a B.A. with distinction from Stanford University and a Ph.D. in English
from Columbia University. She currently lives in New York City, where she is an associate professor in the graduate writing
program at New York University.

Olds has won the Best Younger Poets Award, a National Endowment for the Arts fellowship grant in poetry and a
Guggenheim Memorial Foundation fellowship grant. Her first book, Satan Says, was published in 1980. The Living and the Dead, published
in 1983, won both the Lamont Poetry Prize of the Academy of American Poets and the National Book Critics Circle
Award. Her third book, The Gold Cell, was published in 1987. The Sign of Saturn was published in 1991, and
The Father is due from Knopf in March, 1992.

Hitcher

Continued from page 13

In addition to the cross-country, road tripping information, the rides board has information on a student taxi service which will
cost about half the price of a normal taxi. A committee of drivers assembled during SGA committee sign-ups will transport
students to places such as the airport, the mall, or the train station if given enough notice.

Interested people will call the coordinators, who will do their best to find a driver.

If anyone has any questions, suggestions, comments, or would like to volunteer to be a paid driver, please contact Virginia
Eddington or Marie Huntington.

Write For Campus Living!
Call May Martin
or Leigh McKeever
For More Details.

EDUCATION FOR THE REAL WORLD

(MA, Ph.D) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues.

Graduate degree programs

Area and Functional Fields:

- Interamerican Studies (U.S.-Latin American Relations)
- Soviet and East European Studies
- Middle East Studies
- International Relations
- International Business Management
- International Security and Conflict
- Comparative Development
- International Economics

Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid.

North-South Center
University of Miami

Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Graduate Assistantships.

GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
Admissions, Room # 366
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010
(305) 284-4173
UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI

Macintosh Classic® System. Macintosh LC System.

Now’s the right time to buy an Apple® Macintosh® computer system. Because right now you can save big on Apple’s
most popular computers and qualifying printers. And Macintosh is the right computer to help you achieve your best, throughout college
and beyond.

What's more, you may even qualify for the new Apple Computer Loan, which makes buying a Macintosh now even easier.

For further information visit Computer Services Center
Contact Ellen Maine at x2432

Macintosh Ilsi System.

So come in right now and check out the big savings on Macintosh. But hurry—these special savings last only through
January 5, 1992.

© 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is
a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc.
