10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

Sexual Health
Oma Blaise

Keep Your Eyes Open For These Diseases

It has been suggested that the information contained in this column could be garnered in other, less visible, locations. This is absolutely true; you can easily jog over to Student Health Services and obtain this information. But, let’s face it, it can be embarrassing to walk into Student Health Services, surrounded by people with common colds, and start leafing through pamphlets on chlamydia and genital warts. So most people just don’t bother, and that lack of information can be a matter of life and death. I would like to take this opportunity to publish an article written by Stephanie Glaser and Jennifer Humphrey on behalf of the Student Health Options and Concerns Committee (SHOC).

The three most common STDs on college campuses in this area are chlamydia, condyloma, and crabs. (As chlamydia was covered in last week’s issue, we’ll continue with condyloma and crabs.)

Condyloma, otherwise known as genital warts, has increased dramatically on college campuses. Although this STD is nowhere as dangerous as chlamydia, a connection between genital warts and cancer exists. Genital warts are caused by the human papillomavirus and occur on the tongue, mouth, vagina, vulva, cervix, and anus. The lesions can be flat or shaped like small cauliflowers. Treatment includes burning, freezing, or surgically removing the lesions. Repeat treatment may be necessary since the virus cannot be completely eradicated. Condoms can reduce the risk of condyloma as long as the condom covers the warts and prevents contact with warts on the partner.

Crabs, also known as pubic lice, is one STD that you actually can catch from a toilet seat. Pubic lice look like crabs, are yellow-grey, and get darker as they feed on your blood. The symptoms include itchy bites, mild fever, swollen lymph glands, aching muscles, and blue-grey patches on the abdomen, thighs, and genitals. This is by far the easiest STD to diagnose and treat; crabs are visible to the human eye and can be treated with a prescription or over-the-counter shampoo.

Herpes is another diamond of an STD; once you get it, you have it forever. The fever blisters can be controlled but not cured with a new drug called acyclovir. Herpes can be transmitted from fever blisters on the mouth to the genitals. Gonorrhea and syphilis are also fairly common STDs. They share many of the same symptoms as chlamydia and can be treated with antibiotics.

Condoms are the best bet in preventing the spread of STDs.

If you don't recycle this Davidsonian, it had better be because you plan to treasure it forever.

Rather than “save” the forest, which implies setting it aside under a glass case, the forest should be managed. The people who inhabit these parts of the world need the tools and the education to be able to manage the land which supports them.

As a Davidson student there are several things that you can do to provide support for the people who populate the rainforest and help to preserve their way of life. Become informed about current environmental issues and discuss them with your friends. There are several environmental groups that distribute their funds for research and extension programs. One such group is:

Rainforest Action Network
301 Broadway, Suite A
San Francisco, CA 94133

Write to Rainforest Action and give your support for such programs. Finally, inform yourself about local environmental issues by attending Davidson’s Environmental Action meetings every other Monday night at 7 P.M. in the Union. The next meeting will be...

Small scale agricultural family in the Brazilian Amazon Rainforest

Continued from page 9

If the Brazilian farmers and ranchers stopped burning small plots of forest they might preserve the species-rich forest, but they would all die of starvation in the process. Buying a plot of rainforest may look nice on paper; but unfortunately, there are no environmental police to keep the native people from using the resources on that land. It would be much more profitable, both environmentally and economically, to put funds towards agricultural extension and land management programs within the countries where rapid deforestation is taking place. These programs would greatly benefit the people who inhabit the forests. There is also a need for funding for more research along these lines.held Monday, September 16.

Bone Marrow: Pass This Test!
By Catherine McEaddy

Have you ever wondered what it might be like to have your life threatened? Now, I don’t mean something like a near miss with an oncoming car or your brother coming close to killing you because you stole his clothes. I mean a real life or death situation that you have no control over. In fact, your only hope of coming out on top is dependent upon the kindness of a complete stranger. Kind of makes you think, doesn’t it?

At least three Davidson students have had their lives threatened and have indeed succeeded. But without the kindness of others, they might not be here today to tell you about it. What in the world am I talking about, you ask? I’m talking about bone marrow transplants and the opportunity you have this fall to try to save a life.

Last year, Davidson College held a Bone Marrow Registry Drive for all students. All that was required was a little blood drawn so that marrow could be tested for a match. $30,000 was raised, enabling 476 possible donors to be tested. That is an incredible achievement for the very first year! But what about this year? Simple math will tell you that there are at least 1000 students that can be tested this year.

Now, if you are one of those 1000 students, a myriad of reasons can keep you from being tested. Financially, it costs each person that is being tested $60. If able, you are asked to provide that money yourself. However, if you are not financially able, do not fear. Much of the money that is raised is for students that want to donate but would be unable to do so because of finances.

You might not want to be tested because needles make you queasy or the sight of blood will make you faint. I can tell you right now (ask any of my friends), I am the biggest wimp when it comes to pain. I forced myself to go under false bravery because an eight-year-old bone marrow donor told me how easy it was and to quit being a scaredy-cat. And you know what? She was right. It was very easy and it was over before I even knew it.

So what can you do to get involved? Throughout the fall there will be activities that you can support. This Tuesday there is a study break in the 900 room. Go to it. Free ice cream and Cokes and lots of information on how you can get more involved await all comers. Soon there will be t-shirts for those who give a donation to the Gift of Life fund. Look for them to be on sale at football games and in the dorms in early October.

The Bone Marrow Drive Committee will also be sponsoring other study breaks and activities such as successful bone marrow donors and people in need of bone marrow speaking about their experiences. So give the gift of life. Get involved. And support the 1991 Davidson Bone Marrow Drive. Let’s get 100% participation!

Briggs Joins French Department
By Virginia Mischén

Judging from the number of students who have been flowing in and out of his office the past few days, Jonathan Briggs is an enthused and dedicated teacher. New to Davidson this fall, he joins the French Department as a visiting professor. He comes to us from UNC-Chapel Hill, where he received his master’s degree. Presently, he is A.B.D., which he explains means “All But Dissertation.” In his doctorate work, he is studying French theater from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.

Briggs raved about his experiences abroad. He has spent a great deal of time in France; he has lived in Brittany and Provence and outside of Paris. Much impressed with Davidson’s study abroad opportunities, he strongly recommends them to students. “Living in another culture is an experience you’ll take with you the rest of your life,” he said.

Presently, Briggs is teaching the intermediate and advanced intermediate levels of French. He hopes someday to teach literature and cultural history, which are his specialties. All his classes and committee meetings make his time go by very quickly, but apparently he doesn’t mind this hectic lifestyle. “I’m only happy if I’m busy,” he explained. Obviously, he has already recognized the key to contentment at Davidson.