4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON, Editor-in-Chief
LEIGH MCKEEVER, Executive Editor
WALTER PRICE, Executive Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE, Copy Editor
DAVID SMYTH, Copy Editor
SEAN LIND, News Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER, Opinions Editor
JENNIFER SEICK, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
JOHN PATTON, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

---

A Poor Choice Of Words

The Council on Minority Affairs consists of a chairperson and two Senators appointed by the SGA President, approved by the
Senate; the SGA President and Vice President as ex officio members; one representative from each class of the student body,
and two minority students, nominated by the Council Chairperson in consultation with the SGA President and approved by the Senate.
The chairperson should be appointed by the SGA President at the beginning of his or her term.

The preceding motion was passed at the SGA meeting of April 9, 1991. Its intent is noble, to create a
council for the sole purpose of examining and hopefully resolving the many problems which minority students experience at Davidson College.
In essence, the creation of the Council is another step towards the ideal of race-blind judgment of individual merit and
indiscriminate treatment of other people. The motivating notion behind the civil-rights movement in this country has been that all people
are created equal, and that one’s gender, nationality, or skin color have absolutely nothing to do with one’s ability to
perform.

If you read the motion above carefully, you will find that it contradicts this ideal. The use of the word
“minority” in the fourth line of the motion to describe the two students who will be appointed to the Council
is not just unnecessary, but inconsistent with the ideal the motion attempts to promote. The Minority Affairs Council has been
created in order to address the problems which minority students encounter as a result of being treated in a different
manner than non-minority students. The seeming objective of the Council is to promote the equal treatment of minorities at Davidson.
By stating that “two minority students” will be appointed to the Council, however, the SGA claims that a student is
more qualified to be a member of the Council because of their race or national descent.

The logic behind keeping the word “minority” in that clause of the motion is that minority students would be the
best informed of minority problems, and thus should be specifically cited for membership on the council. This argument is insufficient.
The students appointed to the council should be those who are the most familiar with the problems the council wishes
to address, period. If the most qualified student happens to be a minority, which in all likelihood would be the
case, then that student should be appointed to the post. The student should be appointed on the basis of individual
merit rather than skin color or background. Racist defeatism works both in the direct manner of degrading people for the
sole reason that they are of another culture or color, and in an indirect manner by promoting people on those
same grounds. The language of the motion to create the Minority Affairs Council defeats, in the end, the worthy and
necessary intent behind its inception.

---

Th..th..th..That’s All Folks!

Yes, sadly enough, as our staff has to prepare for end of term papers and exams, just like normal students,
you have before you the last issue of The Davidsonian for the 1990-91 school year. The editorial board would like
to thank all of you who, with your contributions to the paper, helped to make this year’s Davidsonian the best
in recent history. Once again, former editors Jay Chaudhuri and Mark Puckett deserve hearty congratulations for rebuilding the framework of
this paper, and saving it from the possibility of demise.

We’ll be coming out again in September, so use your summer wisely, and prepare that column you’ve always been meaning
to write. See you next year!

---

YOUR CHECKLIST

O' EMPLOYMENT,
COA RAISE? YOU'RE LUCKY I DON'T KILL YOU!
IT'S FOR YOUR OWN GOOD-WHAT WOULD YOU DO
MONEY ISN'T EVERYTHING. WITH ALL THAT MONEY?
HAHA HAHA HAHA HA HA HAHA HA HA HA HA
WE'RE STILL RECOVERING FROM TOUGH TIMES.
WE'RE SUFFERING FROMTOUGH TIMES, O WERE ANTICIPATING TOUGH TIMES. (0 GEE, KID... WAS JUST STARTING TO LIKE YOU! [C1] I
APPRECIATE YOUR COURAGE IN (1 HOH? OH, I THOUGHT I HEARD SOMETHING, BUT I WAS WRONG. [Od WHEN I WAS
YOUR AGE... I'M GLAD YOU BROUGHT THIS UP — NOW GET OUT. (1 BUT YOU GOT A RAISE LAST YEAR!
(Cl IF I'M NICE TO YOU NOW, YOU'LL LOSE YOUR MOTIVATION TO WORK. COMING TO ME LIKE THIS, TELL ME:
WERE YOU BORN STUPID OR DID YOUR MOM DROP YOU ON YOUR HEAD?

Letters

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Offices are
located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries
do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Let's Talk About It

To: The senior English major who let off some serious steam on her/his Student Budget Survey

We need to talk. If you and your family (and some of your friends) are suffering through the kind of
financial hardship described on your survey form, there must be some way our office can provide relief. We can talk
about all those other things that are bugging you, too. Who knows, by airing your views we might find some
constructive means of addressing grievances shared by other students. And while we’re talking maybe I can convince you of the
depth of our commitment to need-based aid and need-blind admissions. Please give me a call (x2232) or come by 106
Chambers.

Sincerely,
GORDON PECK, Associate Dean-Financial Aid

Dear Editor:

It has come to our attention that a few discrepancies exist in your otherwise fine paper. The not least of
which is the continued publication of articles by your so-called health editor, Marlo Cobb. After reading article upon article extolling
the praises of proper exercise, correct eating, and a healthy lifestyle, and bearing in mind the importance of the honor
code upon our life here at Davidson; we find it is time to set the record straight. To the detached
outside observer, Miss Cobb is the epitome of a health freak - daily exercise, no caffeine, roller derby queen! We
can assure the good readers of this paper that this is merely a well-constructed facade.

Marlo is hiding a dreadful and potentially embarrassing secret. She is a chocoholic. Anyone who has visited NBC304 can confess
to the trail of crinkled candy wrappers littering the hall outside her room, the decapitated chocolate Easter Bunnies standing like
sentinels on the kitchen counter, and the empty bags of Nestle chocolate chips that line the bottom of the trash
can. A peek at her daily meal plan is revealing. Breakfast may begin with a whole grain cereal (see previous
article), but served with chocolate (what else!) milk, followed by lunch consisting of a bowl of soup garnished by four
or five squares of a chocolate bar (always Nestle). Dinner, however, takes the cake, so to speak. A typical repast
will probably begin with a square of chocolate, continue with a roll of premixed chocolate chip cookie dough, followed by
the ears of good old Peter Cottontail for dessert. Disgusting.

In the interest of not only enlightening the readers and saving the paper from a potentially embarrassing lawsuit, we also
write to serve a greater cause: Our only...

See "Pig" on page 7

Comments on Holland

Dear Editor,

The following remarks were stimulated by two factors: (1) an interview with Mr. Terry Holland you reported in the Davidsonian
on Monday, March 18, 1991, and (2) an oral account to me of a confrontation between Mr. Holland and a
well-known and respected Davidson senior regarding his clothing tastes. These observations and bits of advice are mostly my opinions, but
I will state them as facts for purposes of emphasis and advocacy. The quotes are Mr. Holland's words.

The first priority for a person starting a new job should be to establish credibility with the people involved therewith.
This includes demonstrating competence, forthrightness, fairness, and willingness to interact with all involved in an atmosphere of good will and
cooperation. Once established, this credibility gives the holder significant power, not brute heavy-handed...

See "Holland" on page 7
