6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991

Beyond Birkenstock: 2

Birkenstock: The New Generation

By Seth McLaughlin

Well, it looks like the world Beyond Birkenstock now has two dimensions. Of course, Kyle and I have always been aware of this bi-dimensia, but now you, the reading public (all five of you), can see it for yourselves. I think Bill Burroughs said it best; “some of us are on Different Kicks and that’s a thing out in the open the way I like to see what I eat and visa versa mutatis mutandis as the case may be.” It looks like you guys can see what you eat now as well (the proverbial Naked Lunch). You will soon realize that it’s been Kyle making you sick all of this time. You should have seen some of the things that he wanted to write last year; nauseating.

Now, Kyle is free from my influence and I’m afraid he may not pause from hitting the “Insult” key (he chose this option in lieu of a “Tab”) on his Macintosh until each and every one of you lay in tears at his feet clutching your dripping copy of The Davidsonian. Of course, I have a Patriot to these scurrilous SCUDS of his; editorial control. It turns out that J. Kyle has to FAX his little sheets of terror to me every other week so that I can type them and turn them in to the Davidsonian. I know there’s something to be said for leaving an article the way its author intended, but I never said anything like that. So, everyone that’s exactly like me can rest assured; I won’t let him offend you in print. But, as for the rest of you, read at your own risk.

The People Speak

Like any good journalist (ugh-huh), I listen to my readers. Since the inception of my weekly column in this newspaper six weeks ago, I have received scores of letters and postcards. The Davidson postmaster reviles my name—the sheer volume of reader correspondence is nearly overpowering for his staff. Until recently, I condemned these letters to a dark corner in my closet, where they could recycle themselves unread. But I’ve had a change of heart. When I last picked up my mail, one of you shore do rite purty. We dint much lack yur refrunse to that thar Shetland Pony insedint, but utherwize, you do us Davison grads rite proud.

The Cat Square, N.C. Alumni Association

Dear Friends: Thanks, I think. I apologize about the Shetland Pony thing—I guess I’ve got a lot to learn about multiculturalism. Never mind.

Dear Traitor: Just the postal workers cornered me on the loading dock and said in no uncertain terms that all the mail better be acknowledged or else. So here we go:

Dear Sir: Your picure—hahaha—sory, your picture is who, pray tell, do you think you are? How dare you betray us. We thought you were one of us, but noooooo, you had to write a nice little story for the freshmen. For goodness sakes, Spainhour, have you certainly capti- no resolve? vating. Consid- Andrew Have you for- ering the some- Spainhour gotten that we, what forced look along with upon your face, Dean Terry, we can’t help but CCRL, and the wonder exactly what it is that you are leaning upon. Of more profound importance is our desire that you be our poster child. What do you say?

The National Association of Proctologists

Dear Proctologists: An enticing offer is always hard to turn down. I realize that your organization has a deep impact upon all of us, but I gave at the office, and it’ll be a good, long while before I go back there again. Thanks, tho’.

Hay Andru: Fur sumboddy frum Concord, Patterson Court Council. hoodwinked the freshmen into thinking that they couldn’t come to any of our parties? Have you forgotten the magic we created with a fake Dean of Student’s Office stamp and a Xerox machine? It was bliss. No freshmen were on upperclass halls, in the apartments, or at our off-campus houses. The scam was perfect, and what do you do, get ‘em excited about meeting us. Thanks a lot.

Every Upperclassman Except You

Dear Lynch Mob: Like, sorry guys, it won’t happen again. Now that I have cleared things up here, it’s time to move on to the topic at hand; the race for Ostentatious, Bothersome, Socially-Conscious, Unintelligible, Ranting, Infectious, Tyrannical, Yes-men (the race for OBSCURITY for short) otherwise known as the Democratic Presidential Primary. It seems that Clinton, Kerrey, Wilder, Tsongas, and Harkin (it sounds like a really bad law firm) have declared their intention to run for the spot you couldn’t give away a week ago. Let’s look at their qualifications one by one.

Bill Clinton: One of his supporters explained her reasons for supporting him as follows; “He seems like a good Christian. He’d make a good President.” Hey, Jimmy Swaggart seemed like a good Christian! Jim Bakker picked up Jessica Hahn by telling her how good of a Christian he was (in bed)! Since when has this been a qualification for the Presidency? Thomas Jefferson was perhaps one of the poorest Christians ever, but he was a damn good President.

Bob Kerrey: He lost a limb in war and dated a Hollywood starlet. What, are we electing Captain Hook here? Just because the Russians like a guy who’s missing some appendages, (Yeltsin: fingers, for all of you who were wondering what I was talking about) do we have to do the same thing? And, hey, just because Kennedy and Reagan dated Hollywood babes, it doesn’t mean that every President has to do the same thing! This election is one for the President, not by Precedent!

Doug Wilder: His approval rating in Virginia, where he was elected Governor, is lower than the oxygen content in the air at the top of Mt. Everest. If you stay with him too long, you’ll die; it’s simple!

Paul Tsongas: I’m going to avoid the liberal Greek from Massachusetts jokes and just say this; Tsongas rhymes with longest which is the adjective we’d use before “Depression ever” to describe what would happen if hewere Prez. And fortunately, the word “longest” also describes his chances! Tom Harkin: He’s from Iowa! Yeah, right. Well, it looks like we’re stuck with Quayle and Bush for another four years. It’s just like Ben Franklin always said, “A bird and a Bush are better than a whole hand of Democrats.”

Juries Needed By Honor Council
By Brian Jennings, '91

The following essay ran last spring in the opinions section of The Davidsonian. We are republishing the piece as we believe its claims remain pertinent. For an opposing viewpoint, please see The Back Page Interview with Honor Council Chairman John Howell.

As student solicitor, in the past year I have served on every honor council trial and investigated possible violations brought to the Dean of Students office. Through this experience and through conversations with numerous people about the system, I have come to the conclusion that something is severely wrong with Davidson’s “most cherished institution”. The structure of the honor council needs to be changed to a more democratic form.

Throughout the campus, there is a negative viewpoint associated with the Honor Council and the system in general. Over the past year, I have asked people from different groups around campus (fraternity and eating house members, independents, freshmen, and faculty) about their impressions of the system. Wrongly, the council is often perceived as a group of conservative headhunters, waiting to kick someone out of school. From this stems a negative attitude towards both the council and the system. However, most of the people that I have talked with would not want to do away with the Honor Code, they just feel that the way that it is set up is bogus - and they are right!

I see two reasons for this negative attitude. First, if people hear of a trial or of someone being kicked out of school, they usually do not know the full story but only that of the defendant. The majority of honor trials are closed which is a decision made by the defendant. Everyone involved in the trial signs a confidentiality statement saying that he/she will not discuss any of the proceedings outside of the court. The intent of a closed trial is to protect the defendant; however, the end result is that the council is viewed as a secretive group that does not want anyone to know what they are doing. Unfortunately, if the defendant is found guilty, he/she often tells friends that he/she was screwed over by the council. Rumors get started, council members have pledged their honor not to discuss cases and thus cannot defend false accusations, and people are left knowing just one side of the story.

Second, the selection of council members hardly resembles the jury selection system of our state and federal courts. Could you imagine if elections were held for local juries and these few people were to hear all cases? In this scenario, jury elections would become very political and no doubt anytime someone was found guilty it would be blamed on those few people elected to the jury. Although elections for council members are not very political, the vision of the council as an exclusive group remains. The Honor Council consists of just three representatives from the sophomore class, six from the junior class, and nine from the senior class. Why should we limit ourselves to such a select group to decide every case? Why shouldn’t anyone who wants to participate in the system at least have the chance to do so?

After giving the situation much thought and looking into honor systems at other colleges, I think that the election of council members should be eliminated and replaced with a self-selected jury. Those that wanted to participate in trials would have the chance and those who do not want to would not have to be bothered. All students who sign up in the Dean of Students office could be put into a jury pool. This new larger council would then select the Chairperson and Secretary as the present council does. Also, as in the present system, the Chairperson would direct the trials and the Secretary would select the jury making sure that no eating house or friendship conflicts occurred between jurors and the defendant.

The benefits of this more democratic system are numerous. Enlarging the council to a jury pool would give anyone the possibility of serving on a trial if he/she wants. More students would have the feeling that they are a part of the honor system as opposed to something that is enforced upon them. Also, students would think more about their own honor since they would be making these decisions. The system is supposed to operate on the guidelines that precedent is not to be followed in any trial. However, after a council member has served on numerous trials, I think that it is difficult for that person to holistically approach a suspected violation as a separate situation, particularly if that council member has served on related cases. Having a completely different jury for each trial would truly make each trial unique. Also, for the most part, the Davidson community is ignorant of what goes on in a trial and how they are run. Enlarging the council would educate more students on the operation of the system. The misconceptions of the council would disappear after more students served on trials and were more closely involved with the system.

Some critics of a more democratic council feel that allowing anyone to serve on a trial would decrease the caliber of decision-makers in the council and that enlarging the council would eliminate the confidentiality of trials. One of the college’s attorneys told the council last fall that Davidson students are far more competent in court situations than the average person called up for jury duty. If Davidson students have the intelligence to serve in our government’s courts, then why would we be unable to serve in our own school’s judicial system? As far as confidentiality goes, why would any student who is not on the council be less confidential than the present members? Anyway, these cries

See "Honor" on page 8