THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

Something Offends You? Just Change It!
By Philip Atchison

What this campus needs is more multiculturalism. Sure, you say, that sounds great. But doesn’t Davidson have students with different
cultural heritages? Of course we do. We have international students from every point on the globe. We have Asians of
American descent and African Americans. Obviously, Davidson College is home to a multiplicity of cultures.

What then, if any, was the point of a Davidsonian article published several weeks ago entitled “SERCH Fosters Multiculturalism in
Davidson?” It seems that a group of twenty-five students has been founded, Students interested in Establishing Racial and Cultural Harmony.
The article stated that the founder of the group received his inspiration after attending a conference where “he was introduced
to the idea of multiculturalism.” The group has already brought a speaker to the campus, an “advocate of multiculturalism.” Perhaps
there is a confusion of terms here. I certainly hope so, because the “multiculturalism” that I am aware of has
no place at a school with the reputation of Davidson.

In today’s classrooms and courtrooms, multiculturalism is a misnomer. It is an idealistic term that circumscribes a radical set of
Afrocentric beliefs. Educational programs have been instituted in numerous public schools, flaunted as multiculturalism, but filled with half-truths and myth.
In 1982, an educational system was installed in the public schools of Portland, Oregon. This system was drawn directly from
a work titled the “African-American Baseline Essays.” These essays were developed by Asa G. Hilliard, an educational psychologist from Georgia
State University (this professor now claims that the Greek gods and the Ten Commandments also originated in black culture). These
essays have been and will be used as standards for setting up “multicultural educational systems” in Atlanta, Indianapolis, and Washington
D.C. (Following specific information courtesy of CHAL).

Africa was “the world center of culture and learning in antiquity.” “Since Africa is widely believed to be the birthplace
of the human race, it follows that Africa was the birthplace of mathematics and science.” These ideas are prevalent in
the Baseline Essays. The concept that ancient Egypt was a Black empire is also a prevalent theme running throughout the
Essays. This document asserts that Egyptians were black, but Europeans “invented the theory of ‘white’ Egyptians who were merely browned
by the sun.” One visit to the Ancient Egyptian wing of the British Museum of Art, and this assertion becomes
laughable. Incredibly enough, I have seen more than one Davidson student wearing a t-shirt, black with gold lettering, reiterating much
of the crap included in the Baseline Essays. Are these students proponents of “multiculturalism”? Either these Essays are fiction, or
the curriculum at Davidson College has been based on racially motivated lies for the past 154 years.

The purpose of the “Multiculturalism” movement is to rewrite history to fit a political agenda. It is not about inclusion
or understanding, but about division and control. It is about changing the narrative to suit a particular ideology, regardless of
the truth.

To Hell With It!
Two years ago, I had never even heard the expression “politically correct.” Today, I wish that I were still afforded
that luxury. The debate “to be or not to be” politically correct seems endless. Recently, fans of the Atlanta Braves
were chastised for their tendency to do the Tomahawk Chop for hours on end as their team played. Some people
scream, “To hell with it.” I much prefer the latter to the former, because personally, I find politically correct speech
— and the mindset behind it — to be about as appealing as a root canal.

Depth! Relevance! Ain't That Romantic?
A full, rich childhood always precedes the development of a deep and relevant consciousness. A child must learn to observe
the world — see how objects move or remain inert, how people think, how to fry bees with WD-40 and
a match — without losing an eye in the process.process. One member of The Society recalls his family gerbil, the
loyal and constant companion of his youth, and has agreed to tell his story for this week’s feature: Lessons From
Innocence and Experience.

Member: We had many gerbils growing up, but my favorite was the first. I loved him (I think it was
a him) and fed him Nerds, his favorite were the green ones, and dad used to make little frisbees out
of tiddly-winks for him to chase. We named him after his favorite relatives, Aunt Nancy and Uncle Bud (they rescued
him as an infant from his mother when they realized she was about to eat him). He’d just about spin
his wheel off its stand when they visited. We called him “Nud” so everyone would be happy.

D/R: What a beautiful example of thoughtful compromise in action. How valuable this experience must have been for you. Too
bad we so rarely encounter such considerate thinking in the world today. Weren’t your relatives pleased?

Member: Oh, yes. The funny thing was, though, I was playing “Hypnotize” with my sister one day using Nud as
the pocket-watch when his tail popped clean off at the root.

D/R: Oh, my!

Member: Yeh, and so then we just decided to split everything up and call the tail, which may still be
wrapped in our basement freezer, “Bud,” since that’s sort of what it was, and the rest “Nancy” even though he
was a boy (I guess you’d say we were kind of a ‘liberated’ nuclear family).

D/R: That’s wonderful. You know, it just goes to show how things work out in the end if people just
examine the circumstances with an open mind, determine what is possible, and choose the best option available. And these early
lessons can instruct us well past childhood.

The “multicultural” movement is passed off as an effort to instill a sense of pride in students with diverse cultural
heritages (i.e. Blacks) by exposing them to the historical achievements of their own cultures. Why must a history be invented?
One must consider the young children in classrooms everywhere learning “facts” about their ancestors, filling with pride and importance, only
to realize later in life that their knowledge is lies. If this new group, SERCH, is an organization that “confronts
the problems of diversity,” I hope they see “multiculturalism” as a hindrance to solving any of their “problems,” not as
a politically correct panacea.

Philip Atchison is a junior English major from Ruston, Louisiana.

The Society would welcome such a thoughtful sense of compromise at Davidson any time. For example, consider these past few
days. We hope you all had a pleasant Homecoming experience. Some people do. But often the various tensions -- boy-girl
stuff, where to eat, where to party, but especially boy-girl stuff -- can make for a somewhat confusing and stressful
weekend.

Readers! You can make a difference. The world is not a static place. The Davidson community must simply consider both
the “XX” as well as the “XY” points of view and evaluate what each party is really interested in. Perhaps,
in the spirit of Nud, a satisfactory compromise may be reached. What will be discovered, in the opinion of The
Society, is that we need at Davidson a healthy sense of “Gromance.” Etymologically speaking, this word fuses the most beneficial
aspects of the terms “Grope” and “Romance” into a pleasantry attainable even, perhaps, within the official confines of a Davidson
Date Function. What functional bliss! What rational passion! Someday maybe we’ll have to just split everything up and run off
with our own little tails, but why give up without a fight? So let’s work together on this one. “Gr--”
a little, and “--omance” till you drop.
