18 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Robert Grubb: ON THE SPORTS FRONT

A few quick items:
* The night soccer games against Duke and N.C. State have both drawn large and enthusiastic crowds. With the new
lighting system, a twilight or night football game might be a lot of fun for the fans, too. I'd like
to see one on the schedule next year.
* While I’m talking about football and fans, I hope that the fraternities and eating houses will continue to plan
more events around the games. These events seem to get more people in the stands.

Now, to keep up with every other sports section in the southeast, I have to say a few things about
the Braves and the baseball playoffs, but not all of them are nice.
* First, congratulations to the Braves and Twins on going from last place to first place in just a year.
* Despite CBS being horrified at the possibility of having teams from two such undesirable TV markets meet in the
World Series, it would be good. Such a possibility is bitter irony for CBS, who bought the TV rights to
baseball solely for the postseason. They would stand to lose even more money and get lower ratings than they did
last year. If this happened, CBS would deserve it, because their baseball coverage is so lousy.
* Can the interviews with Jane Fonda and Ted Turner during the game. I thought that this type of thing
reached a low point.

Wildcat Volleyball 12-8 After Win Over Bulldogs
By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson volleyball team returned to Belk Arena Thursday after a month on the road and fought off UNC-Asheville in
a 2 hour and 25 minute epic, 5-15, 15-5, 15-8, 10-15, 15-11. The win gave the Wildcats a 3-1 record
in Big South play and pushed their overall record to 12-8.

The ‘Cats got off to a sluggish start in game 1 and seemed overwhelmed by the Bulldogs’ monstrous front line,
led by 6’2" Ilona Fekete, the Big South Player of the Year and the national leader in blocks a year
ago. In game 2, the hitting of Mimi Plauche and Janet Delery led Davidson on an 8-point tear that turned
a 7-5 lead into a 15-5 win. Holt Hathaway closed out the game with a service ace.

The Wildcats took advantage of several net violations by Fekete and did some impressive blocking of their own to capture
game 3. A big block by Katherine Anderson and Jennie Wagner gave the ‘Cats an 8-4 lead and provoked a
Bulldog timeout, and Davidson coasted to the win.

Davidson turned suddenly error-prone in losing game 4, demonstrating an unsettling habit of missing serves at crucial times. But they
stormed out of the gate in the final game, jumping to a 12-2 lead and settling for a 15-11 win.
The hitting of Plauche sparked the crowd to frequent renditions of the Mimi Mash, a close relative of the Tomahawk
Chop.

The win over the Bulldogs came on the heels of two Big South wins and a non-conference loss to UNC-Greensboro
in the preceding week.

Men's Tennis Rips Up W&L Tourney
By Robert Grubb

The members of the men's tennis team may have been the happiest students returning from fall break. Davidson dominated the
Washington and Lee Invitational Tournament over the break, winning every flight.

“Without a doubt it was the strongest performance we have ever turned in,” said Coach Jeff Frank. Davidson competed against
Washington and Lee and Emory, both top ten Division III schools, and VMI, a Southern Conference team. The event consisted
of four singles and two doubles flights.

Albie Varoski won the top flight, losing only seven games in his three matches. In the same flight, Russell Briggs
lost to Emory’s number one player, Colin White. In the second flight, two Davidson freshmen, Holt Vaughan and Daniel Grinnan,
advanced to the final, which was not played out. The results were the same in the other two singles flights.
John Beyer and Dave Tonidandel met in the third flight and John Beyer and Chris Parker were the finalists in
the fourth flight.

Beyer teamed up with Vaughan to win the doubles, winning two three-set matches along the way. The second doubles flight
also featured an all-Davidson final, with Varoski and Parker advancing to meet Ryan Harper and Grinnan. Harper and Grinnan won
a third set tie-breaker to get to the final.

The Wildcats accomplished all of this without number-two player David Jespersen. Jespersen sprained his ankle in the Wofford tournament on
Sept 28. Frank was ecstatic over the play of the entire team, but especially the freshmen.Two freshmen. “I never anticipated
freshmen playing as well as they did over the weekend,” said Frank. Frank used the success in Jespersen’s absence to
emphasize the team’s depth, which he views as its greatest strength. “There are so many people playing well, that I
am having a difficult time picking one of four players who could start in the number six position,” said Frank.

The Wildcats started things off September 30 with a three-game sweep of Winthrop. Davidson traveled to UNC-G on October 2
to meet the Spartans, and though the team fell in 4 games, their play improved as the match progressed. The
‘Cats dropped the opening game in the next night’s game with new conference member Liberty, but swept the next three
games to defeat the Flames.

For Coach Rebecca Hawkins, the regular season is but a long prelude to the Big South Tournament, and with a
month to go until it arrives, she is pleased with her team’s play. “We have been playing stronger every match
and we are getting in good shape for the rest of the season,” she said.

The ‘Cats warmed up for the Washington and Lee tournament with victories over UNC-Greensboro and Liberty. UNC-G fell 7-2, which
was an improvement over last spring’s 5-4 match at Davidson. Frank was concerned that Davidson lost two doubles matches. Frank
has concentrated on doubles in the past because they have been a weakness for the Wildcats. Davidson won 9-0 at
Liberty, the newest member of the Big South. Briggs filled in nicely for Jespersen at number two, pulling out the
win in two close sets. Varoski, who has been playing well recently, won easily, 6-0, 6-0.

Frank is looking forward to this weekend’s tournament at Davidson because of the way the team has been playing. The
‘Cats will host Coastal Carolina, William and Mary, and UNCC, with play beginning on Friday at 2 o’clock. All three
teams have played Davidson well in the past, but Frank is confident. “I couldn’t be happier with the way the
team is playing,” said Frank.

Women's Tennis Pummels Elon

Harriers Continued from page 17

Next was sophomore Amy Bertram, who, though still recovering from an earlier leg injury, was once again a great asset
to the team. Behind her were runners Jean DeMoss, Lisa Sitek, and Carolyn Meadows. Times were felt to be irrelevant
during this race as the course was unique and spikes were not recommended due to long stretches of concrete and
alligator pools.

For the injury-riddled Davidson men’s team, progress has been slow. Under threatening skies, the men’s team began the race lathered
in sweat and revved up for a good run. But it was not to be, as the relieving rain never
fell and the Wildcats succumbed once again to injuries. At mile three, captain Ted Richardson pulled out of the race
due to the incessant pounding of the concrete on his still-injured ankle. Richardson, though disappointed, felt rightly that it would
be better to wait and recuperate a bit longer before attempting the high-speed runs for which he is famous. At
the end of his race, junior Ian Stewart, finishing first for Davidson, suffered a blow to his foot. Though he
did finish, he has yet to recover from his injury. Sophomore Kevin Wilson, a promising young upstart, also withdrew from
the race after taking a hard fall when striking a foreign object on the course. Freshman Erik McMichael, a strong
contender in Davidson’s future, finished the race under extreme pain from advanced shin-splints, which hampered his performance.

The Davidson Cross Country team is now entering the final stretch of their season. Though hindered by injuries and seemingly
lackluster performances, the Wildcats still have the potential to provide much excitement. The Wildcats will take on the state’s best
Saturday morning when Davidson hosts the North Carolina Intercollegiate meet.

Davidsonian Staff Reports

Ruth, Kimberly Nance, and Barbara Grooms captured singles victories for the Wildcats. The doubles teams of Hess-Nance, Beahm-Wilcox, and Grooms-Karen
all won singles titles for the ‘Cats, while the doubles team of Beahm-Wilcox took the Flight 2 doubles title.

The Davidson women’s tennis team continued their winning ways Thursday with an easy, 9-0 thrashing of Elon. Cyndi Hess, Jennifer
Wilcox, Nicole Beahm, Nicole Wilcox, Tasha Kingsley all downed their Fightin’ Christian counterparts as well. Over fall break, the team
turned in a good performance at the Washington and Lee Invitational. Cyndi Hess (Flight 1), Nicole Wilcox (Flight 3), and
Rebecca Billingsley (Flight 4) all won singles titles for the ‘Cats, while the doubles team of Beahm-Wilcox took the Flight
2 doubles title.

Write For Sports! It’s Neat-O! Call Bruce Balestier -6524, or Robert Grubb -6629.
