"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991 NUMBER 11

Students, Faculty Honored at Fall Convocation, Mebane Pritchett Addresses Seniors & Parents

By Tom Koonce

Several members of the Davidson community were honored on Saturday at the annual Fall Convocation ceremony. In addition to the
presentation of the Goodwin-Exxon, Superior Cadet, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Who’s Who Among American Colleges and Universities awards, Mebane Pritchett,
father of Davidson senior Paul Pritchett and president of the Coca-Cola Scholarship Foundation, addressed the assembly.

Dean of Students Will Terry presented the Goodwin-Exxon awards which annually recognize a sophomore, junior, and senior who exemplify the
highest standards of good sportsmanship, character, and consideration of others. Terry said, “Never before have all three completely symbolized the
intent of Henry and Claire Goodwin.” The recipients of this award were sophomore Alden Smith, junior Catherine Milligan, and senior
Beth Mitchell.

Major Michael A. Hawkins then presented the Department of the Army Superior awards to the outstanding cadet in the sophomore,
junior, and senior years of Military Science instruction. Sophomore William Pomeroy, junior Laura Malenas, and senior John Howell received this
award.

Mimi Plauche then announced this year's inductees into Omicron Delta Kappa. This is a national leadership society that recognizes excellence
in various areas of campus life: athletics; religious activities; scholarship; and dramatic, forensic, musical, and other cultural activities. The new
members from the class of 1992 are Annie Adams, Barbara Defenbaugh, Deborah deSola, Josh Henderson, Joy Hord, Christy Knight, Beth
Mitchell, Bess Murchison, Gail Ruff, and David Scott. Sam Adams, Joe Cook, May Martin, Catherine Milligan, and Ursula Reel were
the new members from the class of 1993.

After the Davidson inductees into the “Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges” were acknowledged, Dean Robert Williams
presented the faculty awards. He started by formally recognizing Benjamin Klein as having received the award.

Several Davidson children participate in the annual Halloween Parade through downtown on Thursday.
Photo By Lillian Roe

Students Help Renovate Building For Ada Jenkins Community Center

By Tom Price

Several student organizations have been helping Davidson Presbyterian Church renovate a building which will soon become the Ada Jenkins Community
Center. Habitat for Humanity, the Solidarity Committee, and Davidson Together have each volunteered time on the past several Saturdays.

Reverend Bob Shirley is pastor of Davidson Presbyterian Church and will serve as the community center’s director. The center will
be the headquarters for a Boy Scout troop, a drama program, a lay counseling program, career development programs, and programs
for the elderly. Shirley has emphasized that the center is for the town and not just for Davidson Presbyterian Church.
Shirley wants Davidson College students to play an active role in these programs.

Sam Adams, co-chairman of Davidson Together, has been very pleased with the number of students who have been willing to
do volunteer work at the center. He says that on each Saturday they have had approximately 25 workers and one
Saturday there were upwards of 50. The students have been painting the inside of the center and doing other renovation
work.

Davidson Together is an organization formed two years ago by senior John Patton. Adams said the group’s purpose is “to
foster a sense of community between students and the town.”

See "Center" on page 3

Photo By Holt Hathaway

Seniors Carter Payne, Rob Ukrop, Rob Rostan, Dean Vanderwarker, and Rob Malanuk await Saturday's Convocation exercises.the North Carolina Professor of
the Year Award. Klein, Professor of Mathematics, received this honor earlier in September. It is given annually by the Council
for Advancement and Support of Education for a professor’s contributions to the lives and careers of students. It recognizes a
professor for extraordinary achievement in scholarship, teaching, and service to the profession. Williams then presented the Thomas Jefferson award for
the professor who promotes the high ideals of Jefferson through teaching, scholarship, writing, and personal influence. It also honors this
professor for giving generously and well beyond the call of duty.

See "Convocation" on page 3

$10,000 Award To Be Presented

By David Thompson

Dean of Faculty and Vice President of Academic Affairs Robert C. Williams announced the establishment of the Hamilton-Hunter Love of
Teaching Award on Saturday. The award carries a stipend of $10,000 and will be awarded annually. The first recipient will
be named at the commencement exercises in May. An endowment secured by Mr. and Mrs. James and Grey Hamilton will
generate the funding for the award. An instructor will be selected for the prize each year by a committee comprised
of five fellow faculty members based on the following criteria:
* At least five years’ teaching experience at Davidson.
* Demonstrated enthusiasm for teaching.
* An ability to clarify the complex.
* Stimulation and evocation of outstanding student accomplishment.
* Demonstrated respect and compassion for students, and an obvious desire to know them as individuals.

Nominations are welcomed from any Davidson student, graduate, or faculty member. A nomination form with further details will be available
to the college community soon.

By Jennifer Williams & David Smyth

Many students have become aware of a petition circulated across campus concerning the formation of a FLAG chapter at Davidson.
FLAG, which is an acronym for Friends of Lesbians and Gays, will serve as an education and awareness group on
campus that focuses on the rights of the homosexual population on campus. The national idea was born when a group
of students asked the Council on Minority Affairs to consider sanctioning a FLAG chapter. Officers are to be elected and
a formal roll to be established presently.

FLAG is a national organization that currently counts 250 active chapters across the United States. The organization focuses on education,
combating homophobia in the media, grassroots organizing, and establishing youth groups. The initiation and annual fees to create and sustain
a FLAG chapter are $30 per year. Normally, the group meetings take place with concerned parents of gays and lesbians
and is known as PFLAG (Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays). The national office makes allowances for a college
environment’s absence of parents, so the Davidson chapter will be assigned a parent in the area to work with the
group at weekly meetings. The general idea is to bring awareness and support for the formation of such an organization
(see the advertisement on the back page). FLAG currently has no official membership and no officers.

Two weeks ago, twenty-five students canvassed every dorm to identify support for the formation of such an organization.

See "FLAG" on page 3

INSIDE

CAMPUS LIVING:
SGA Phonathon postponed until February. See page 2.
Norton watches Davidson change. See page 9.

OPINIONS:
Think The Davidsonian sucks? You're not alone. See pages 4-6.

SPORTS:
Men's Soccer defeats 6th ranked Wake Forest! See page 12.

DAVIDSON ARTS:
Andy Owens makes his "Steamroller Art".

First Class Mail
Davidson, NC 28036
