THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

Sensitivity Does Not Preclude Debate

We are at war. Since our last article in The Davidsonian, the United States has committed its armed forces to combat against those of Iraq. But now is not a time to be divided about support of our troops. Regardless of our feelings about the rationale behind the U.S. participation in the Gulf, it is important to remain sensitive to the feelings and emotions of the troops and families involved in Operation Desert Storm. However, sensitivity should not stifle discussion. Differing views should be expressed. It is indeed positive that there have been a diversity of heartfelt views expressed here at Davidson. But we should all guard against becoming so self-righteous in our own positions that we actually slip into becoming irresponsible. Disturbingly, some comments expressed (particularly on the walls of Chambers) have been more destructive than constructive in their insensitive language and their misrepresentation of opposing views. It would behoove all of us to articulate our views thoughtfully. While we may disagree with various views, not listening to all points of view only deprives us of further understanding. It is possible to express our own feelings, regardless of political bent, while still respecting the sacrifices being made by those whose lives are on the line.

Gilbert W. Shaw

Beyond Birkenstock

Give War A Chance

Time To Fight, Not Gripe

Well, you’ll be happy to know that our column is one week old, and already we have fans. Comments like “terrible,” “in poor taste,” and “uncollegiate” spring to mind. Not all bad, mind you. Well anyway, ideological debate is essential to a free democracy, and besides, the paper is free. In other words, if we wanted to hear your crap, we’d call you on the phone and ask you what you thought. So, until that happens, keep your opinions to yourself.

As Baghdad crumbled around him, Hussein called Bush “that Satan in the White House” and said that the world’s objectives would go “unfulfilled.” It is obvious that nothing short of a complete allied victory will end the war. This will most likely require the use of ground forces—more of our U.S. soldiers. Now is the time to rally behind our troops. Nothing anyone says or does is going to bring American soldiers home before their designated objective is complete. As we write this article, the glowing reports of American successes in Iraq and Kuwait after only one day are truly encouraging. It is sad that people have to die because Saddam Hussein chose to ignore the world’s mandate to leave Kuwait, but the fact remains that we are a nation at war; there will be deaths. This brings us to the point of this week’s article. Many exhaustive overtures were made from leaders throughout the world to try to solve this crisis peacefully. Saddam chose to ignore them all. It seems obvious that Hussein will listen to nothing but force, and now we have come to that option of a peaceful democracy. The time for negotiation passed at 12:00:01 a.m. January the 16th. The point we’re trying to make is that the Vietnam-era peace protesters were successful only after several years, and after the casualty totals began to affect middle America. Reasonable estimates suggest that the conflict in the Gulf may only last six months and President Bush is committed to withdrawal when the job is done. Six months doesn’t seem such a long time to wait for a new world order in which big countries no longer feel free to dominate and dismember their smaller, weaker neighbors. In other words, give war a chance.

Kyle J. Kinner and Seth J. McLaughlin

This past Thursday Davidson students entering Chambers were greeted with a questionable message from Ellen Ott. We believe that this message is neither constructive nor timely. We cannot simply turn away as if nothing is taking place. We are viable participants in a pluralistic society which entitles each of us to voice opinions on any issue. However, as we do so we should remember the sacrifices being made by those whose lives are on the line. As we watch the events in the Gulf unfold, it is important to remain respectful and thoughtful in our discourse.

John E. Howell and John C. PattonGulf develop we must continue to think about and discuss what is happening. Tremendous sacrifices are being taken and the desire of everyone to bring hostilities to a close as soon as possible. Note: Howell, Patton, and Shaw team-wrote this article.

Rude Notes and Random Scribblings

Is Davidson's New Mascot The Abusive And Uncivil Hawk?

They’re back! They’re bad! They’re writing in The Davidsonian! They helped Helms and hacked on Harvey. They brought you that scathing indictment of your worthless, miserable lives and suggested that your Jagey tainted blood be spilt on the sand for stuff too often spilt on otters. Yes, that’s right, it’s those fast-talking fascists, Kyle and Seth, bringing you yet another argument for the resurrection of Adolf Hitler each and every week. Who said tunnel vision was out of style anyway?

No, no, none of that. Really, everyone quite enjoyed your little essay, boys; but please, do go back to the bunker and play your Neo-Nazi Reindeer games, or whatever it is you do when you’re not vehemently supporting holocausts. We all know that you two would rather make love than war, but I guess you just have to settle for what you can get.

As I have often stated in this space, we live in troubled times. Especially disturbing is the rising tide of hackneyed metaphors like “rising tide” in my writing. What’s really frightening, however, is the overwhelming support among Davidson students for the war in the Persian Gulf. In fact, sometime in the wee hours of January 16, some genius put up posters outside of Chambers accusing those who rally for peace of more gravely threatening our soldiers than Iraqi troops. Come again?

According to these members of “Junior Strikebusters for the Death Penalty, Wheel of Fortune, Every Woman’s Right to Keep her Trap Shut, Really Short Hair and Poor Education” (so that tomorrow’s laborers won’t get any funny ideas), peace gatherings chip away at the morale of our soldiers in battle. Taste prohibits my use of the desired epithet, so I shall limit myself to associating you people with swine.

By claiming that communally shared wishes for peace are treacherous acts, you insult not only the individuals gathering, but also the soldiers for whom they pray, the concept of freedom of assembly, and, (just to be sure I include all those attacked by your poster) humanity as a whole. Sure, the people who organize and attend peace rallies are idealistic, and yes, I do have my qualms about the aesthetic qualities of those God-awful Birkenstocks, but there is no reason for these people to be accused of treason. In fact, these are some of America’s most patriotic citizens.

The United States was founded upon the simple principle of the right of each individual to express a dissenting opinion. It is the duty of Americans to communicate discontent with their leadership. More importantly, the protests are not against the politics behind the military action in the Gulf. They are simply for the preservation of human life. Only those who promote the cause of peace truly support the military.

As I say, it is the right of each individual to express their thoughts. I do not wish to stifle the expression of conservatism, especially because I am a great deal more conservative than I let on in this space. It would be of great service to the community, however, if the teenage mutant ninja fascists would think about what they say before they so insult those who deserve it the least.

All the protesters want is for our friends and relatives to come home—sans body bag. How can the expression of love and hope be an anti-American gesture which attacks morale? The posters suggest that those who gather for peace view the action in Iraq as similar to that in Vietnam. The present case is not the same. Today’s protesters want peace; they do not lay the blame for what is happening upon the soldiers involved.

Continued on Page 7