THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

15

Kuralt, Hundley and Brown
Join Davidson's Athletic Staff

By Bruce Page

Justin Kuralt comes to the men’s basketball program from UNC-Chapel Hill, where he received a BA in Geography in 1991.
He is at Davidson as an assistant to Head Coach Bob McKillop. At Carolina, Kuralt was the head manager of
the varsity basketball team for three years. He kept statistics and supervised the varsity and JV managers.

Kuralt likes the switch from managing to coaching. He came out of college wanting a Division I job and is
pleased both with Davidson basketball and the community here. He plans to focus his attention on one or two players
and help to mold them to reach their potential.

Kevin Hundley took over this year as head coach for Davidson’s third year of varsity women’s soccer. Hundley graduated from
Middlebury College, where he helped his soccer team to a 30-8-2 record over four years, including two undefeated seasons.

For the last 11 years, Hundley has been head coach of the men’s soccer team at Kent School, in Kent,
Connecticut. His record there was 101-61-29. Hundley says he came to Davidson for the opportunity to coach full time and
meet new challenges.

Betsy Brown found out the day before students arrived that she would be running practices for head coach Betsy Pryor,
who is currently on maternity leave. Brown graduated from Earlham College, where she received MVP honors in both field hockey
and lacrosse.

Last year Brown coached at Norfolk Academy in Virginia and currently is working with Pryor at her home to coordinate
the field hockey team.

---

We'll custom build you a genuine New York style pizza slice by slice. Once you try us you'll never settle
for ordinary pizza again!

- pizza
- subs
- salads
- beer
- free delivery ($6.00 min. order)

COMPARE OUR PRICES
Our tray equals two large plus one small pizza

Cornelius Magnolia Plaza
I-77 1 mile west on 73 from Exit 28

8301 Magnolia Dr
892-6678

More discounts available on multi-tray orders for large groups and fraternities.

---

Come see our

Campus or Career

SUIT SEPARATES

Sportswear & Dresswear

and our exciting

CHARGE ACCOUNTS for DAVIDSON Students Welcomed and Invited

Apparel for Men & Women

128 N. Main St., Mooresville
For 79 Years

9 AM till 6 PM, Mon thru Fri.
Saturday 9 AM till 5 PM

Merchant of Fashion & Quality
