MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991 Sports 13

Baseball Preps For Big South Tourney
By Alan Rosselot

On the surface, the baseball team’s trip to Hawaii for the Easter Rainbow Classic, in which Davidson won just two of nine games, would appear to have been a disaster. But considering the level of talent that the Wildcats faced during the Spring Break tournament, the players and coaches are not disappointed with their performance. The Cats played nose to nose with a field that included several top 25 teams, among them two top 10 teams, and perennial NAIA power Lewis-Clark State.

First-year head coach Dick Cooke inherited this trip, a considerable challenge for him and his team. In retrospect, though, coach Cooke sees the trip as an excellent learning experience since Davidson will enter postseason play (at the Big South Tournament) for the first time in three years. “This was a very productive week,” commented Cooke. “We saw better pitching, better overall lineups from one to nine than we’ve seen so far. The tournament really raised our level of play mentally and physically.”

Entering the week as the underdog, the Cats jumped on Portland State on the first day for their first victory. This 4-2 win set the stage for the rest of the week. Only against Washington State were the Cats never really in the game. In every other game, the decision came down to the last few innings. The Wildcats finished sixth in the eight-team field. Tenth-ranked Wichita State defeated fourth-ranked University of Hawaii for the championship.

Highlights of the week for Davidson included the wins over Portland State and Lewis-Clark State. Additionally, the Cats lost a thriller to Wichita State, 3-2, in which all the runs were scored in the ninth inning. After scoring two runs in the top of the ninth, the Cats fell when Wichita State was able to touch pitcher Dave Williams for four straight hits and three runs.

Despite taking losses against Wichita State and Sacramento State, Williams was a strong point for Davidson. He earned a victory over Portland State to finish the tournament with a 1-2 record and an ERA of 3.00. The strong performances of the whole pitching staff, in particular Williams, Brad Wanzenberg, and Andy Paul, were a pleasant surprise for the Cats. Considered to be a liability for a long tournament like this one because of its lack of depth, the pitching staff turned out to be a bright spot.

The Cats, however, were relatively tame at the plate, batting .212 as a team over the nine games. Only catcher Brett Boretti, who played in just five games, hit over .300. The Wildcats recovered from jetlag in time to wallop the Aggies of N.C. A&T less than 24 hours after their return from Hawaii. Davidson scored seven runs in the first inning in rolling to a 15-3 win. Jim Stanfill (2-2, 5.68 ERA) picked up the win.

See "Tourney" on Page 14

Golf Team Wins Ferrum Invitational
By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson golf team, with its sudden death victory at the Ferrum College Spring Invitational March 25-26, claimed its first tour...

Senior leader Mike Maggart came through with a 74-79--153 performance that ranked him in the top five. Coach Gordon commented, “150 led the team and placed him in the tournament, turning in the 7th lowest score in either division. After it, Mietz boasted that “we are, without a doubt, playing the best golf we have all season.”Mietz: "Best golf we've played in the past 23 years."

The Wildcats’ 1968 Southern Conference Tournament win marked the end of their three-year string of conference championships. The sudden death playoff occurred after Davidson and UNC-Greensboro completed the two-day tournament with totals of 621. The four Davidson golfers made par on the first hole, while one Spartan golfer made bogey to lift the Wildcats to the crown.

Freshman Will Coble’s 78-72-just a stroke from medalist honors. Says Mietz, “With a tournament win and impressive showing at Camp LeJeune, we’re looking to be extremely competitive at the tournament.”

The Wildcats are now collecting themselves for the all-important Big South Conference Tournament, April 14-16 in Buies Creek, N.C. In attempting to knock off defending champs Augusta, the Wildcats will take their first crack at a conference title since the 1988 Southern Conference Tournament. Mietz guided both players and expressed, “I can’t even begin to express how pleased we are,” he beamed. “If you had told me last year, as far down the leader board as we always were, that we would be winning a tournament one year later, I wouldn’t have believed you. But we have a great group of freshmen led by Will Coble, complemented by the senior leadership and experience of our captain Mike Maggart. Nothing this year’s group does surprises me.”

Paso Fino Horse Show Slated

Press Release

The Piedmont Paso Fino Horse Association is pleased to announce the 1991 Paso Fino Horse Show to be held at Latta Plantation Park on Saturday, April 13 and Sunday, April 14. The show will begin at 9 AM each day and will conclude at approximately 4 PM each day.

The Paso Fino, although relatively new to the United States, is one of the oldest and purest breeds in the New World. The ancestors of the present Paso Fino came to the New World on Columbus’ second voyage. Once bred for Spanish royalty and as the war horses of the Conquistadors, many believe the Paso Fino to be the most exciting and smoothest riding horse.

See "Paso Fino" on Page 14

John Mack & Son, Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN

See this! DAVIDSONIANS! ‘Tis the season for SHORTS and KNIT TOPS, and all cotton khakis. Come see our great selections, by Woolrich, Berle, Duckhead, and Tailors' Bench.

PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE 25% OFF ANY SINGLE ITEM

128 North Main St. OFFER EXPIRES APRIL 15, 1991 Phones 664-4711 or 663-3701 Downtown Mooresville

Volleyball Team Is Shooting For The Top

By Bruce Balestier

With a somewhat relaxed schedule of spring matches designed primarily to provoke continued improvement, the Davidson Volleyball team has set out to top last year’s 31-6 season, the winningest in Davidson history. That season included a 14-game winning streak, two tournament crowns, and a 2nd place finish at the Big South Tournament. What’s more, not a single player graduates from that superb team.

Holt Hathaway and Mini Plauche, both All-Big South selections a year ago, will lead the returning juggernaut, while a number of talented incoming freshmen should figure in prominent positions for the team. A repeat of last year’s success, though, will not be easily attained. Coach Rebecca Hawkins, last year’s conference Coach of the Year, “eliminated a lot of the fluff” from last year’s schedule, but managed to conceive an even more challenging slate of games for next fall’s campaign. New opponents James Madison, Virginia Commonwealth, East Tennessee State, and Georgia Tech, in addition to Big South powers UNC-Asheville and Radford, should severely test the Wildcats.

This spring, in trips to tournaments, the team will continue to hone their skills and build on their previous successes.

See "Volleyball" on Page 15