THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

1991 Student Government Association Elections: Questions & Answers

Covington: We have the Trustee Contact Committee, but we have a problem right now in that not enough senators realize
how great their role can be with the trustees. My relationship with Mr. Wall is very good. I received a
letter from him last night, and he wants me to check on his schedule to see when we could talk
about the athletics policy, specifically the questions surrounding Division I and Division III status. The senators can be more instrumental
with the trustees if they take the initiative to do so, and that is something I am going to encourage.
Students can influence the trustees more than they think.

Davidsonian: How would you see yourself differing from this year’s president?

Covington: In my three years on the senate, I have seen the presidents take on many different roles, from Harrison
Murray to Tripp Helms to Doug Jobe. I think that assertiveness and visibility are two important characteristics of the president.
We are part of a larger community than just Davidson College, especially with Charlotte so close, so an SGA president
really needs to make their name known everywhere. I consider myself to be very outgoing and strong in this regard.

Davidsonian: What do you think separates you from the other presidential candidates?

Covington: I think the characteristics I have stated earlier, using my name as an acronym, especially my experience and articulation,
set me apart from the other candidates. I feel that I am uniquely qualified for the office. In other words,
it just feels right.

Prem Manjooran: Most of you here know me. My name is Prem Manjooran, and I’m running for SGA president. The
decision to run was not a hasty one at all. The idea has been in the back of my mind
for two years. In fact, the genesis of the decision was formed during my tenure as Independent Senator my sophomore
year. It has suited me to work within the SGA. I have realized that there is so much to be
done, that could be done, and so much that has been left undone because of situations in which senators felt
that they were being compromised. I genuinely believe that in the past couple of years or so, the SGA president
has run for reasons other than to serve the college community - additional material on the résumé being one of
those factors. It’s just that I have seen, in my years on the SGA, numerous instances when the officers of
the student government have backed down, or refused to take a hard enough stance on something as critical as minus
grades, extended semesters, or other faculty-introduced changes.

It’s all very well to say that the students should have a voice in the college community. What has been
forgotten, I think, is that without the students, there would be no faculty, no administration. It is the students that
determine the necessity of having a faculty and administration. Therefore, I genuinely believe that the students should have a greater
say in the affairs of the college. I’m not here tonight in order to make any dramatic speeches, dramatic promises,
or to offer any statement of purpose. All I’m here to offer you is my accessibility, my commitment, and my
experience. I have learned a lot in my two years on the SGA to be able to handle the situations
required of an SGA president. The three of us are all experienced and committed, but what I think sets me
apart is my diverse involvement with various aspects of campus life. Since my freshman year, I have worked in various
places on campus, in the Commons, in the Union, with the International Committee as well as many other committees. The
decision is not going to be an easy one. Thank you.

Davidsonian: You are running against two candidates who, as you say, are also very qualified for the office of SGA
president. What is the one thing that sets you apart from your competition?

Manjooran: I would have to say that it is my unquestioning, unswerving devotion and commitment to the school.

Davidsonian: You mentioned ‘taking a stand’. Would you elaborate?

Manjooran: My primary point of contention is that the faculty and administration seem to give us a second-rate status in
terms of evaluating policy decisions. An example of this is the minus grades situation. When minus grades came about, they
were presented without any forewarning at all. When they decided to change the length of semesters, we, again, had no
forewarning at all. These decisions were made behind closed doors. I would definitely like to think that, as SGA president,
I will be fully included in the decision-making process. I believe that the students need a representative on every one
of these faculty commissions. That will be my strongest stand.

I'm here to offer you my accessibility, my commitment, and my experience. I have learned a lot in my two
years on the SGA to be able to handle the situations required of an SGA president. I also think that
my commitment to the school is something to be glad about. Davidson has given me a lot, and that’s not
just in terms of the money that’s been given to me to go to school here. It’s given me a
lot in terms of the friendships I have been able to establish and the relationships I have built.have been able
to build. That includes my relationships with faculty and administration as well as students. I see the presidency as an
opportunity to pay back the community for something it’s given me. My experience this year as a Hall Counselor has
taught me, if nothing else, there’s much to be given to this community, and the community can give that much
more back in return. That is the main reason that I am prepared to commit myself entirely to this community.
It’s not been an easy decision to run, and I guess that all three candidates are extremely well qualified.

Davidsonian: Alcohol has, obviously, been a problem at Davidson this year. What projects do you see the SGA undertaking with
the Trustees towards either changing the alcohol policy or keeping the status quo?

Manjooran: From my personal experience, especially as a Hall Counselor this year, I have encountered varying stages of drunkenness around
the college. I do firmly believe that banning alcohol from the campus will not keep people from drinking. I would
much rather see students stagger back from a court party than have them driving back to campus drunk. I believe
that the school has to take a stand on the alcohol policy. If Davidson has the most liberal alcohol policy
of any of the schools around us, I believe that is for the better. I think that half the purpose
is to teach students to drink responsibly, not to tell them not to drink. I think the faculty can make
the students realize that it is their responsibility. I think the Trustees are fully aware of that as well, that
alcohol is something you have to deal with on campus.

Vice Presidential Candidates

Vashist Worah

I’m Vashist Worah, I’m from Calcutta, and I’m a junior Physics major here at Davidson. The primary reason why I
want to run for SGA vice president is because I would like to be directly involved with the committees that
the SGA sponsors. The committees are how the SGA functions. Most of the decisions the SGA makes are based on
the information provided by committee chairs. The primary role of the vice president is to look over the activities of
the standing committees. As an analogy, I could say that the role of SGA president is like that of the
CPU of a computer, whereas the role of the vice president is like that of the lines which carry the
information to the CPU and back from the CPU to all the other parts of the computer.

The primary concern which I would like to address, and which I would like to influence as SGA vice president
is that of the minority situation at Davidson. In my opinion, having been a Love of Learning Counselor/Mentor this past
summer, the minorities who come to Davidson do face a great many difficulties which are most often ignored, looked over,
or not even acknowledged by the rest of the campus. In the past, we have had numerous committees which have
worked on this problem, and have heard numerous suggestions including a Minority Affairs Office. The office would deal with concerns
of minority students. There should be, in my opinion, more direct contact or more direct coordination between the BSC and
the Solidarity committee. The events they plan should be planned together, they should be campus-wide.

Security also takes up a lot of discussion on the SGA. Fall semester there was a great deal of talk,
but in the spring the topic has been somewhat glazed over. Ray Thrower has become a little bit less accessible
than he was last semester. One of the things I would like to initiate is a bit more regular contact
with Ray Thrower. As an RA I have good contact with the Residence Life Office, which I can bring to
the SGA. The biggest project they have for next year is the new apartment building, which, if I’m elected vice
president, I hope to follow up on in close detail. Thank you.

Davidsonian: How exactly would you keep the RLO on their schedule towards the construction of the apartment building?

Worah: Well, there’s nothing that I or even the Senate can do to facilitate the building of the thing itself,
but what we can do is keep them on their toes. Given that I am in the RLO almost every
day, I can keep asking about it and have information flowing back and forth between the RLO and the SGA.
That way the student body will be aware of what’s going on.

Davidsonian: In your opinion, to what extent does the SGA influence the adoption of college policy?

Worah: I think it all depends on the way the matter is pursued. There are just some issues about which
the faculty are open for input but aren’t really going to change their stance because of the SGA. The primary
concern which I would like to address, and which I would like to influence as SGA vice president is that
of the minority situation at Davidson.

Davidsonian: You mentioned minority concerns. What steps will you take to pursue this issue?

Worah: There is never really any integration of minority students on the campus. If minorities and members of the BSC
want a traditionally black fraternity, that’s fine with me. I would also suggest a cultural festival like the kind the
international students have.

Davidsonian: What changes do you see coming to the alcohol policy?
