THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

Jukebox

Continued from page
she thinks it is “A-OK. We need something in the Union to bring a sense of humor to the Cafe,
and make it not so boring.”

Other students, like Gail Ruff, are not pleased with the new addition. “I think it’s a useless noise maker, but
a good foot massager if you’re upstairs studying—the floor vibrates.”

Noise is a concern, Brown notes, and some have commented that the noise is irksome when in the Wilson Room,
located right behind where the jukebox is in the Cafe. If the jukebox stays, Brown says that the Union may
look into moving it to a place in the Cafe where it would not disturb meetings in the Wilson Room.

Does the jukebox infringe upon auditory rights? According to Paul Tong, “the good thing about the jukebox is that you
can sit down and listen to music whenever you have the money to do so; however, when you sit down
for some quiet you have to listen to whatever other people want to listen to.”

Marshall Smith pointed out the jukebox’s total lack of treble/bass balance and suggested that holes need to be put into
the mechanics in order to compensate for the dominant bass tones.

The selection of songs currently in the machine has not pleased all students, but there is a suggestion box which
students are encouraged to indicate their musical preferences.

Junior Wilson Hardcastle commented that he’s glad the jukebox is here, “but it needs less 70s Pizza Hut songs.”

Some students have noted the capitalist tactic of the jukebox to spew out unwanted tunes at random intervals in order
to catalyze people into inserting money to hear music slightly more pleasing. Will such a tactic encourage students to invest
their money into this noise-maker? Some people like Bethan Faust “don’t think it’s important enough to spend actual money on.”

Whatever the current problems might be, Rudell said that he was pleased with the way that the freshmen senators worked
together to get the administration to consider this idea.

Write for Campus Living. It's a Pretty Damn Cool Branch of The Davidsonian.

Or maybe breakfast and dinner, too. Skip a meal on the Thursday before Thanksgiving, and join millions of students who,
since 1973, have been a part of the Fast for a World Harvest campaign. Help some of the poorest people
in the world feed themselves for a lifetime. On your campus, contact:

Hunger Awareness Committee 896-6825

Lose Your Lunch

Oxfam?

Lose your lunch November 21. You'll be surprised how much you gain.

FULL SERVICE INCLUDES:

* Lubricate Chassis
* Oil Change
* Oil Filter Change
* Check Air Filter
* Check Differential Fluid
* Check Transmission Fluid
* Check Power Steering Fluid
* Fill Windshield Washer
* Check Tires
* Check Brake Fluid
* Check Battery
* Check Wiper Blades
* Vacuum Interior
* Wash Windshield

WE LOOK FORWARD TO ACCEPTING YOUR PARENT'S WEEKEND

STUDENTS & FACULTY? om our Davidson

LAKE LUBE

19000 Statesville Road/Hwy. 21 Cornelius, N.C. 28031 (704) 892-9834 Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sat. 9 a.m.-5 p.m.

SERVING ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE AND MARINE LUBRICATION NEEDS.

We Service Boats, Domestic, Imports and Exotic Cars

SEAFOOD GRILL

WE SERVE THE BEST IN FRESH SEAFOOD, STEAKS, CHICKEN, & LAMB

CUISINAIRES Philip J. Lloyd and L. Al Blakely Located in Sadler Square, Davidson 892-6429

Serving Lunch Mon.-Fri. 11:30-2 Serving Dinner Mon.-Thur. 5-10; Fri. & Sat. 5-11 (limited menu between 2-5)

Owner & Operator Jim Truslow—formerly opened and operated North Harbor Cafe

* All ABC Permits * Catering Available
