THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

THE BACK PAGE

INTERVIEW With Kresimir Klenovic & Milica Tomasevic

By Katharina Altpeter and Leigh McKeever

For over two months a war has been raging in Yugoslavia. Although a peace agreement between Serbs and Croats was signed on September 2nd, it is worthwhile to look at this country and its problems because this ethnic conflict is certainly not the last the world has to deal with in terms of ethnic and political disputes. There are currently four students from three different Yugoslavian republics enrolled at Davidson. Their presence gives us the opportunity to obtain a slight insight into the historical and cultural background of Yugoslavia, and to acquire an understanding of the problems the Yugoslavs face in their own country.

The following interviews with Kresimir Klenovic from Croatia and Milica Tomasevic from Serbia revealed numerous facts which are largely unknown, even to Europeans.

Kresimir Klenovic

Davidsonian: Give us a short impression of Yugoslavia.

Klenovic: In Communist times Yugoslavia hasn’t been under a direct influence of Russia, and then it’s been pretty much more free than other East European countries like Poland and Czechoslovakia. We could go out into other countries, could travel; we wouldn’t be stuck.

Davidsonian: Did you have free elections?

Klenovic: Elections were strongly communistic resulting in a dictatorship rule. We’ve had some freedom, but in other ways in the economy, the politics, the communist party had a big role in creating jobs and everything. It was different if you were in the communist party than if you were not, and very often it was important to be in the party. Often something wouldn’t be free to go in the newspapers if it said anything against communism.

Davidsonian: Were people allowed to speak their mind, was there a secret police?

Klenovic: There were secret police. In 1971, for example, there was a movement in Croatia for independence. In those years there were more secret police. This was more to suppress that independence movement than anti-communism.

Davidsonian: Tell us something about Croatia's cultural uniqueness.

Klenovic: Cultural and historical differences were forming from back in the past till recent years. I would say that Croatia is like a Western part of Yugoslavia. A western part that was more influenced by the Austro-Hungarian empire and the Roman empire. People are mostly Roman Catholic. I am a Roman Catholic. This pretty much influenced culture also.

Davidsonian: Were you able to practice your religion openly?

Klenovic: My father was in a responsible place, and everybody who was in a responsible place had to be in the party. He didn’t want me to go to church, and be seen by other people, and then have them say, “Look at him, he is in the party and his son is going to church.” So my father would tell me, I’ll buy you a bible, whatever you want, you can read—that’s nice, and if you really want to you can go to church. He wouldn’t lose his job if I went to church, but he preferred me to not be active in church life.

Davidsonian: Is religion really an important thing now that you can express your belief?

Klenovic: It’s getting to be more important. For example, before I came to America I started going to church—I went like Christmas night and other major holidays. Now people go to church more often, they express their beliefs more openly.

Davidsonian: Is there a great difference between the Roman Catholic and the Orthodox church?

Klenovic: I wouldn’t say it’s a great difference, but it certainly has influenced the emotions and especially the politics of the different ethnic groups.

Davidsonian: Do you speak the same language as people who live in Serbia?

Klenovic: Before the creation of Yugoslavia our languages were very different. After creating one country, the languages have merged and gotten more and more similar. Still, there is a difference, for example, in vocabulary, but the sentence structure is fairly similar.

Davidsonian: Is there an official or a common language?

Klenovic: In the last year and a half the language has changed pretty much. Many words are being pushed out of use and other old Croatian words are being reinstalled.

Davidsonian: When asked where you come from, do you name your country, your republic, or your village?

Klenovic: Croatia and Slovenia still have not been recognized by other countries. So when somebody asks me where I’m from I say Yugoslavia, sometimes Zagreb/Croatia/Yugoslavia, because officially Yugoslavia still exists, at least on paper. However, I deeply feel as a Croatian, and whenever asked about my nationality or individuality, then I’m Croatian—there’s no such thing as Yugoslavia.

Davidsonian: Are there Serbians and Croatians living together where you live?

Klenovic: The structure of Croatia is 79% Croats, 12% Serbs, and the rest is others. In some regions people have lived with other ethnic groups for all their lives. You cannot make a compact homogenous state. The Serbs have been there for years, but you cannot just cut something and say it is not Croatia anymore just because there live Serbs and also Croats. In the part the Serbian government wants to take over, the Serbian government pushed out the Croats and Hungarians with arms and tanks, not political talks. I don’t claim that the Serbian people are to blame, I think that the government is the problem. This is what makes living together before and after different—people who once lived together are being pushed out.

Davidsonian: Do you think that politics should be based on ethnic groups?don’t think ethnic origin is the most important thing, but after somebody has been bombing you and killing almost 300 of your people, it’s really hard to stay one unified country. The Croatian government has agreed to preserve Yugoslavia as a country of sovereign states. If we can’t be good brothers in one country, why can’t we try to be good neighbors in separate countries?

Davidsonian: You once wore a Croatia free T-Shirt, how do you think Milica might feel?

Klenovic: I think about what she feels and I’m not indifferent to her. But, my nation is being attacked, my state is being bombed by the Serbian army. Because of all this, I really feel that I can’t afford not to express my views and wear my T-Shirt, because I really feel that Croatia needs help. We don’t have arms, planes, tanks as the Serbian army and Serbian rebels do. I don’t feel that I can hurt somebody when I say I support a group who’s fighting for freedom. I don’t see any violence in this.

Davidsonian: So this is more a concern about your people being killed than to express ‘I’m against you’.

Klenovic: I’ve talked to Milica, and I’ve told her that our political views might be different, but again I’m telling you I have nothing against the Serbian nation. It is not their fault that the government doesn’t give them news from the world, that they censor everything. When you see the lack of freedom in that press, just imagine what is said about the Croatian government and nation. It’s the government that fills you with the same news and with the same hatreds towards everything that is Croatian; it’s true that you become of like mind.

Milica Tomasevic:

Davidsonian: Give us a short impression of Yugoslavia.

Tomasevic: When this paper comes out Yugoslavia will probably not be Yugoslavia any more. During Tito, a communist and president of Yugoslavia, there were no elections under a one-party system—you could only elect him. In 1949 when Russia took over and spread into Eastern Europe, Tito objected. He was the one who organized so-called non-alignments. I think this is the only positive thing he did. When he died in 1980, nothing was as strict as it was during his reign. Before, people were so repressed with that communistic regime—if you disagreed with communism, you would just disappear and nobody would ever find out about your fate.

Davidsonian: How was the food/commodity situation?

Tomasevic: There were some crises, but it has never been as severe as the Russian situation where you have to wait in line for bread. In my opinion, we had everything—there were imported goods etc. I think that many people mix up Czechoslovakians, Bulgarians, Russians, and Yugoslavians. Some people say, “Oh they’re poor, therefore they’re stupid.” You cannot equate those two things—Russia gave Dostoevsky and Tolstoy—you can’t say these people are stupid.

Davidsonian: After Tito, did the communist system continue?

Tomasevic: The communist system went on until last year, but it was very shaky—with every year it became worse and worse. Actually, it failed, and we had free elections in December 1990. There hasn’t been pure communism in a long time, it has been more socialism. This socialism/communism remained in Serbia because that’s where the communist headquarters were located.

Davidsonian: Could you comment on religion in Serbia?

Tomasevic: In a communist country, they try to suppress religion. Serbs are Eastern Orthodox, I am Eastern Orthodox. But this does not mean that I hate Roman Catholics—I am completely open for every kind of orientation.

Davidsonian: Are there historical differences between Croatia and Serbia?

Tomasevic: Before WWI when Yugoslavia was formed, Serbia was an independent kingdom for centuries. Centuries ago before the U.S. as you know it existed, Serbia was a wealthy country and very rich with culture.

Davidsonian: Do Serbs and Croatians have different languages?

Tomasevic: We call our language Serbo-Croatian. Since the war started, Croatians say it’s Croatian language, and Serbs usually say it’s Serbian. But, it is more or less the same language. This difference is much like the difference between British and American English. We completely understand each other, it’s just different accents.

Davidsonian: Do you have contact with people other than Serbs?

Tomasevic: I have many close Croatian friends. I don’t care if you’re Serb or Croatian, you don’t judge a book by its cover. I’m very pacifistic, and I think that it makes no difference where you’re from. However, there are people who put that kind of atmosphere into the conversation, and at that point if they want to emphasize that we are from different parts, I back off and don’t really know what to do—it makes me feel bad. I think it’s really a shame that we are fighting like cannibals in the 20th century, that we are killing each other—I think it’s the most absurd thing that could happen in this so-called “civilized” time.

Davidsonian: If somebody asks you where you are from, what do you say?

Tomasevic: I always say I’m from Yugoslavia. If I said, ‘I’m from Serbia’, it would sound like I’m emphasizing being from only Serbia, being pure Serb, and that I don’t like anyone else. But I don’t want to say either that I want to keep Croatians in communistic Yugoslavia. I’m not communist. I don’t like what’s going on. I try to smooth things as much as I can, but it doesn’t always go so well and that makes me feel bad because I believe in peace.