THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

Emotions Continued from Page 2

...hope that the military action was quick and surgical. Molly Graver, known supporter of a peaceful solution and fellow organizer
of several peace and prayer vigils, stared grimly at CNN’s reports in the TV lounge and was silent. Faculty opinion
was equally split. “I am sickened by it for all the people concerned—Arabs, Americans, and Europeans,” said Art professor Shaw
Smith. “But I resent the facade that the American government has taken in creating this coalition and faking the highroad.”

Political Science professor Ahrensdorf holds a different opinion. “I am relieved. I am inclined to think that between the choice
of fighting now and fighting later, it is better to fight now. It will cost fewer lives and be less
dangerous to fight now than in a few years.” Religion professor William Mahony commented on the reaction a day after
the initial attack. “It’s important to realize that history has shown that violence and war have sown the seeds for
more violence. The people of America are watching this like it’s a Rambo movie.”

Jay Kirtley '92, said, “The coalition is a fake and everyone knows that Hussein is monstrous. Everyone wants the soldiers
home. Everyone wants the same goal. To call one side ‘immature’ or the other side ‘violent’ is not right. We
all need to be constructive in our response.”

Photo By Chris Lee
Students and faculty gather for a peace vigil held on the day of the deadline for Iraq to withdraw from
Kuwait.

Protest Continued from Page 1

...hippies,” and criticized the protest as a failure to do any good. Reports of a counter-protest dominated the media, although
many of the Davidsonians claim the counter-protesters were few, and felt few protesters were even aware of the counter-protesters’ presence.
“The media made the protesters out to be '60s byproducts, jobless since the protests over Vietnam. Although I did see
some counter-protesters, they were a relatively small and quiet group, compared to the 15,000 of us in the park. I
don’t agree with the media’s overcoverage of a group which was so insignificant,” said senior Chris Einolf, who participated as
a peace advocate.

Many of the Davidson students felt the rally was productive in sending a loud message to the President, but felt
the message may not have been clear. “I myself went to advocate non-violence and peace as an answer, rather than
war and military aggression. Although I was disturbed...

Relatives Continued from Page 1

...begin to describe my emotions during that time.” Though Grey had to endure this unfamiliar horror of not knowing what
was going on with her brother, she still supports President Bush’s actions. Grey said, “People should support the troops.” She
then followed up by saying, “I never thought we would have a war during this generation.”

Freshman Molly Sentell also has a brother, Sherburne Sentell, serving in Saudi Arabia. Sherburne graduated in the same class as
Grey’s brother, Rufus, and was also in the ROTC. Sherburne was one of the first soldiers sent over to Saudi
Arabia. He is a 2nd Lieutenant in the 82nd Airborne. Just before leaving for the Gulf, he had become engaged
to Patricia Henderson '89. With unfamiliar territory, one must attempt to understand it. Molly describes her attempt to understand her
brother’s situation, “I respect him for his beliefs...He believes he is protecting us. He describes it as if there were
an intruder in the house.” Molly also states, “At..."The angry voices of some of the more radical groups at the
rally, I felt that it was more important that people voiced their opposition to the war,” said sophomore Romylynn Cunanan.
Despite the presence of groups which denounced the United States for everything, and whose slogans diverged from peace and non-violence,
other students felt confident that the rally and march was a clear sign of unity amongst people who feel Bush’s
choice to go to war was a detrimental one.

Molly Graver, the head of Davidson’s Political Action Committee and organizer of the Davidson component in the rally, said, “I
felt a great sense of solidarity in the march. Everybody, from a diversity of groups, walked side-by-side, joined in the
effort to stop this war and to save lives. The sentiment was a positive one, supporting the troops by wanting
to save their lives, and supporting peace in the Middle East and throughout the world.”

"Some say peace advocates don’t know the facts and are just causing more problems than they’re solving. I disagree; we
know the same ‘facts’ as everyone else, and we believe in a peaceful solution. Now that the war has started,
our mission is to stop any more bloodshed and to protect all the lives that are in jeopardy, whether they
be American, Iraqi, Israeli, Kuwaiti, or any other. We're talking about humanity, something people seem to have forgotten about.”

Senior Mike Peters, whose father served over five months in Iran before coming back home to work in the Pentagon,
said, “I support the President...We must do what it takes to bring Saddam Hussein to talk.”

Senior Lisa LeNard, who has a brother, Dennis LeNard, serving as a member of the Nuclear Bomb Chemical Warfare since
the end of August, told her side of the story: “Some people are anti-war. They are the ones who do
not understand. If you look at the fight against Hussein it is trying to accomplish peace for the world...We must
neutralize his power in order to bring peace.” Lisa supported Bush’s attack, she said, “I don’t think my view on
the war has changed since it began with the bombing...war was inevitable. It is probably the quickest way for Dennis
to come home again. “It’s just hard for me to believe my little brother (Dennis is 19 years old) is
actually in a war.” Lisa explained.

This idea of trying to accept reality was felt by junior Joey Manibo. Joey said, “The idea of war did
not really hit me until I heard my uncle was on his way to Saudi Arabia...Before I looked at the
war through my eyes, now I look at the war through my heart.”

Out of these students with relatives overseas, all shared a feeling that Lisa LeNard best expressed, “The support here at
Davidson is amazing. I wouldn’t want to be anywhere else in the world.” After all the worrying and concern, Grey
Timberlake’s words describe the feeling of the Davidson community: “Bad times bring the best out of people.”

New York, New York 09798.
