“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

Patterson Court & Dean of Students Change Freshman Policy

By Tom Koonce

In an effort to introduce freshmen to all that Davidson has to offer without them being absorbed by Patterson Court,
a regulation was passed last week prohibiting freshmen from attending upperclassmen parties of any type. The regulation was passed by
the presidents of Patterson Court and Dean of Students Will Terry. It reads, “Upperclassmen will not entertain freshmen on campus
or off campus and freshmen are not to attend upperclass parties until September 20. Failure to abide by this agreement
may forfeit a freshman’s ability to participate in Patterson Court.” The regulation adds that if members of a Patterson Court
house commit an infraction, “the house may forfeit its participation in Patterson Court activities.”

The background of this regulation dates back to seven years ago when freshmen could still go down on the court
during their first few weeks at Davidson. Terry explained that freshmen were down on the court every night during those
weeks. Terry commented on the fact that several problems developed during these years. Chief among these problems was the decline
in freshmen academic performance. A committee was formed to address this problem. After studying the situation, the committee decided that
freshmen should not be allowed on the court for the first ten weeks of school. The CCRL then deliberated this
issue and after experimenting with time periods as long as six weeks and as short as three, it was decided
that four weeks was the appropriate amount of time to keep freshmen from going down on Patterson Court. Terry stated
that the academic average of the freshmen class rose .10 points after this new system was put into place. He
said that this new policy obviously had a very “tangible academic effect.”

At first this policy worked well, but as years have passed, fraternities have attempted to subvert the system by having
dorm and off-campus parties. Terry added, “This year they (parties) seemed to hit a new level.” The CCRL met and
decided that this problem needed to be brought up to the Patterson Court presidents. Terry then met with the presidents
to draft this new regulation.

According to Terry, the purpose of this regulation is to “get the freshmen on a good academic track and to
expose themselves to other things at Davidson besides Patterson Court.” On the issue of why this policy was rushed into
effect, Terry said, “We couldn’t wait any longer, we had to move fast.” He added that it was unfortunate that
this wasn’t done in the spring. Terry said that this regulation was also influenced by a lot of input from
this year’s Hall Counselors. He also acknowledged that it puts an added responsibility on the Hall Counselors. Terry also believes
that the Union has and will continue to provide opportunities for freshmen to get to know upperclassmen on a neutral
basis.

Terry addressed the issue of whether or not this new regulation is too vague, “Everybody wants a strict interpretation of
this rule. If people will read it rationally, they will understand the intent of the thing and can use their
own common judgment to understand it.” On the problem of freshmen leaving campus to drink at bars and other such
places, Terry said, “It definitely bothers me, but I can’t let it control decisions made by Davidson.” He also added
that if someone is stupid enough to drink and drive, then that is their personal decision. Terry explained, “We can’t
break the law to accommodate the freshmen and keep everyone on campus.” Elaborating on this, Terry said, “Abuse of alcohol
is a serious problem at Davidson and we are going to move with vigor to turn it around. This doesn’t
mean we want a dry campus but we do want a responsible one.” Terry said that fraternities were to blame
for the problem that led to this regulation, but he believes they will abide by this new policy.

Around campus, response has been both positive and negative. Freshman John Murchison said that this rule “restricts personal freedom of
association,” while Freshman Christopher Martin stated, “It’s only a few weeks so I guess it’s not that big a deal.”
Todd Newman, president of Sigma Phi Epsilon, said, “The rule is a little absurd in some ways in that it
segregates the classes.” He also added that it is good in other ways.

See "New Rule” on page 4.

Medical HumanitiesBrings Physician-in-Residence to Campus for Three Years
By Tom Koonce

Davidson’s three-year-old interdisciplinary Medical Humanities program is bringing a physician-in-residence to team-teach a seminar here for the next three years.
Dr. Stephanie Carperos will teach health care courses each semester for these next few years. The Medical Humanities program is
also developing a system of student internships at Planned Parenthood, Hospice, the Metrolina AIDS Project, and four area hospitals.

The Medical Humanities program at Davidson examines the area of modern health care from various perspectives, including legal, political, and
technological viewpoints. Davidson’s program is also unique among colleges in that it offers students an interdisciplinary procedure of the study
of health care. It includes 16 courses from areas such as religion, history, and political science. Rosmarie Tong, a philosophy
professor, is the director of the Medical Humanities program.

Grants have helped this program at Davidson to move forward. The Fullerton Foundation provided a $130,000 grant to help fund
the new physician-in-residence seminars. GTE provided $5,000 to bring speakers to Davidson to talk about care of the terminally ill.
On September 26 & 27 the program will hold the F.W. Speas Colloquium in Medical Ethics.

NUMBER 3

Senior Ben Towle in WALT's current home in the basement of Belk Dormitory.

Students Move to Bring WALT to Life
By Russ Tisinger

Some Davidson students are trying to breathe new life into WALT, the student-run radio station at Davidson. The station, which
operated from 1988 to 1990, has been recently striving to broadcast on an FM wavelength. An FM station, say supporters,
would mean more listeners, more interest from record companies, and more interest from Davidson students themselves.

An FM station would bring with it a lot of advantages over the system that was used from 1988 to
1990, according to Ben Towle, a senior philosophy major and a central figure behind the push. The chief problem with
the station during its sporadic two-year run was the sound quality. The carrier current system, which broadcast WALT through electrical
wiring of the five uphill dorms, Belk, Watts, Sentelle, Richardson, and Cannon, emitted a quality of sound worse than the
worst AM station on the dial. Broadcasts were barely audible above a loud constant buzzing noise. Students in Duke dorm,
who were supposed to hear WALT, didn’t hear anything at all.

However, if WALT actually gets a 500-watt FM station, not only would the signal be clear, but all the students
on campus could tune in. Additionally, the wattage would be powerful enough to reach all of Davidson and possibly parts
of Huntersville. The improvements would generate enough of a listener base to encourage record companies to send the station free
music as they normally do for other FM college radio stations, Towle said. Also, Towle believes that the FM station
would require less maintenance than the problematic carrier current system after all the necessary equipment is in place.

WALT is not the first student-run station that has been organized at Davidson. In years past, students ran the WDAV
radio station from the Union building at a power of 10 watts. The programming was largely student-controlled. Eventually, the decision
was made to move towards a classical format. Students were allowed to broadcast an alternative show called “Flipsides” in the
evenings. Finally, however, “Flipsides” was completely cancelled, and the students were left without a station.

According to Towle, the founders of WALT had always hoped to...

This colloquium will deal with the subject, “Law, Medicine, and Public Policy: Weaving Alliances.” Guests include nationally renowned doctors, public
policymakers, lawyers, and insurance executives. Davidson’s Medical Humanities department also has a formal relationship with the Carolina Medical Center in
Charlotte that allows students and professors to study there at any time. There are currently 30 students enrolled in the
Medical Humanities program.

INSIDE
NEWS: Kappa Sigma wins national award. See page 2.
Thrower urges students to register their bicycles. See page 2.
Opinions: Tom Norwood criticizes new freshman policy. See page 5.
Beyond Birkenstock: Conventional Wisdom? See page 6.
Ross Sloop on the Atlanta Braves. See page 7.
Davidson Arts: Jim Carswell on the Gallery Crawl in Charlotte. See page 8.
Campus Living: Davidson in India group departs for Madras. See page 10.
Sports: Davidson Soccer preview. See page 14.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
