THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

Questionin' That: What Does Knowledge & Learning Mean?

Our two anonymous students meet in the BSC for their not-so-bi-weekly discussion. For those who don't know the time, that stands for Baker Sports Complex. Were you all by chance thinking that stood for something else?

A: What does knowledge and learning mean?

J: Funny you should ask me that, I just came from giving a lecture on that very topic. But seriously, folks, is this a trick question?

A: Look around. Aren’t there social, economic, and political problems out there?

J: I suppose so. I’m flat broke (economic), and I can’t get a date (social). What are you getting at (political)?

A: Your situation isn’t really what I’m referring to. With the exception of the date part, all of that will likely change. The United States is a rich nation by modern standards, but there are still homeless, illiterate, and impoverished people in America. In getting what you want in this world, it seems that you have to take something from someone else, particularly if you take more than you want or need? I mean, aren’t we learning to do this here and now?

J: Well, the recruiters told me that the reason to come to Davidson was to become a well-rounded renaissance man. However, now that I think about it, the underlying purpose of this institution is to prepare individuals to make a way for themselves in this world, even if it is at the expense of others. But isn’t that the American way? Or, perhaps the “western” way, if you know what I mean? I can’t be sure; I haven’t been given anything to compare it to.

A: That’s the whole point. Think of society as a machine and individuals as parts. If we accept without question the principles of western culture, don’t we become working components of that machine?

J: Yup. I see a lot of people, particularly in the academic world, who cling to traditional western culture as if everything else were sinking sand. I’d say this is especially true...

Depth! Relevance! Everyone Has An Off Week

Boy am I stumped. Hmmmmm. Drat... what am I gonna’... oh, phooey. The Depth! Relevance! Society couldn’t think of anything to write this week so the Board of Directors asked me to wing it. I mean, I had a few ideas, but goodness! they were petty. Embarrassing. I wouldn’t even tell my best friend about these conceptual...

But, maybe, OK. Just to give you an idea, I was thinking about starting off this weekly lunge for infinitesimal straws with the following sentence: ‘The only thing funner than shaking a bee up in a jar, dumping him out, pulling off his wings and watching him wobble around is hunting lightning-bugs with a whiffle bat.’ Can you believe that? Talk about hurtin’. Then I was maybe gonna’ describe the crisp ‘plink’ sound that sort of shimmies up your arm when the fat part of the bat gets one right on the translucent butt, and then... But you get the picture. Who wants to listen to me wallow in such moral, verbal, and insectual mud?

It got really bad. I even thought about... well... You remember those great big red plastic Fat Albert whiffle bats? The ones approximately one kilometer in diameter with which a four-year-old could not possibly miss a small perforated ball much less a younger sibling’s head (Kenner absolutely guarantees an undamaged fontanel no matter what happens with these bats). Well, I wanted (yes, the thought brought me pleasure) to describe how us boyz in the hood used to round up a whole Jif jar of fireflies, sneak off to the darkest corner of the yard, release the prisoners and swing away. Golden parabolas swiveled off into the night, dozens per swing, and hardly any stuck to the bouncy-slick surface of my battle bat: Ug! Yucky! I apologize.

But just to complete the thought, I planned to relate the preceding list of activities, with choice additions, to the pertinent theme: ‘Homecoming options for those without dates.’ Aren’t we relieved my bud was nipped.

Then I thought, “Criminy! I’ve got to write about something.” Then I remembered that last week, for the first time, someone responded to the Society’s publication and proposed a series of questions. Maybe I’d answer some. Like #1 concerning the formation of a box: Is it not true, since there is absolutely nothing inside that box, that the universe expands exactly one cubic foot? -- No. Or #5: If you dug a hole and found a new color, what would you call it? -- Rude. Or #8:What exactly is a track team supposed to do with only three lanes? -- Run, presumably. And, for that matter, shouldn’t a soccer team play on a soccer field? -- Why yes! Or #9: Does the Davidsonian get read anywhere else besides the bathroom? -- No (It might help if they’d stock those things more regularly, don’t you think?). Or, most importantly, #3: If there is a dead man hanging from a rope attached to a hook at the top and wrapped around his neck at the bottom and underneath him is a puddle of water, and there is absolutely nothing else in the room, how did the man die? -- Well, obviously, urinating (many thanks to RML). But that wouldn’t do either. Too technical. You must sense my frustration. Then, as the clock struck midnight and all seemed, if not lost, at least decidedly misplaced, a tremor jostled the heavens (so they tell me). Translucent base paths crisscrossed somewhere out there -- way, way out there -- and tangled across the distant boundary of spiritual things. And out of the celestial quagmire something whole burped forth (Milton, eat my shorts). Brightness it was -- sort of -- definitely tinted and it lurched through space and time (a curved trajectory, of course) and plummeted earthward like a wicked slider. In cathode tubes across the nations it amalgamated and conformed, arrogating the cumulative strangeness of 666 episodes of In Search Of and burst forth a whole, an...

See "Stuck" on page 8

...cially true at Davidson. I honestly think that what we need here is a huge influx of alternative perspectives into the curriculum. I mean, if we can have an entire Humanities department devoted to the study of western culture, how about just a few courses dealing with other cultures and worldviews in a comprehensive manner?

A: That would be good, but there are going to be those who say that western culture and values are the only tools we need to be successful. But what does “successful” mean? Does it mean driving a BMW and using a cellular phone, or does it mean walking barefoot and deodorantless on the steps of the Capitol? It is clear to me that we have inherited the definition of success, and it seems centered around preservation of self.

J: Exactly. That’s all we’re taught, so that’s all we know. As far as Davidson is concerned, I feel that to broaden the curriculum is to broaden our minds. Sometimes I almost think that people around here are afraid to open their eyes and find out that all they know is not necessarily all there is.

A: There is more, and it is not so far...

See "J & A" on page 8

Rude Notes and Random Scribblings

What We Really Want

Senate Committee Hearings are supposed to be boring, but Judge Clarence Thomas’s nomination hearing was not. Here was a man who had been nominated to sit on the Supreme Court, the highest law enforcing body in the United States, and he was being accused of an awful, terrible crime. The hearings have made co-workers as well as long-time friends face each other in a new light. Ted Kennedy was sitting under those lights thinking, “Long Dong Silver, I’ll show this chic Long Dong Silver.” If this stuff was art, Jesse would ban it.

This brings me to an important point. The Davidsonian is a wonderful paper and may actually be “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY.” But it definitely needs a certain sense of sexiness. Walt Whitman wrote that the “filthy social laws” keeping sex out of history, poetry, and the press “Sex...”

See "Rude Notes" on page 2