FEBRUARY 4, 1991

Campus Living

Joey Manibo: Talent On The Court And In The Classroom

Photo By Mike von Badingen

Junior Joey Manibo competed in the Caribbean and Central American Games in Mexico City. He hopes to qualify for the
Pan American Games.

By Trent Stevens

Joey Manibo represented the Virgin Islands in the tennis competition of the Caribbean and Central American Games this past fall
in Mexico City. But Manibo’s talents and aspirations extend far beyond the tennis court. This Davidson psychology major plans to
win the struggle to become a doctor in straight sets.

Manibo is a St. Croix native who attended three years of boarding school in Fort Lauderdale before deciding to come
to Davidson. Tennis has been a constant at all of the schools that he has attended since the age of
10. He claims that tennis is “like a therapy for me.” As a member of Davidson’s tennis team, Manibo practices
and conditions about two-and-a-quarter hours per day, five days a week. “There seems to be a lot of enthusiasm,” Manibo
claims about this year’s team. “The coach (Jeff Frank) seems to be really satisfied.”

Manibo’s commitment to tennis is shared by his younger sister, a student at Louisiana’s Centenary College and considered to be
the best women’s tennis player of the Virgin Islands. Manibo’s involvement in the Caribbean and Central American Games began when
the president of the Virgin Islands Tennis Association called him to inquire if he was interested in trying to qualify.
In the Virgin Islands, Manibo says that he was always second or third in the junior tennis rankings. He qualified
in a match in Miami. From November 19th through December 3rd, the games were held in the Mexican capital, forcing
Manibo to miss a week and a half of classes at Davidson. But the games did not go as well
for the Virgin Islands as Manibo had expected. Mexico, Cuba, and Puerto Rico were the three strongest teams.

Persian Exchange Student's Family Attacked By Kurds

By Meredith Hammons

1915

The entire student body was scheduled to attend a Laymen’s Convention in Charlotte. The Laymen’s Movement was an organization of
lay members of the Church and involved men in a myriad of professions who were interested in pursuing the work
of the Church. The group only convened once every two years and the opportunity to go to the convention was
considered a privilege. The faculty strongly urged all students to attend.

Persian exchange student, William Sayad, received a telegram from Secretary William Bryan informing him that his family was safe. He
had been concerned since his relatives were living in Uramiah, Persia, and the Muslim Kurds were raiding that city. He
also received word that his family had relocated to Tiflis, Russia.

1955

Students observed University Christian Mission Week. This week was sponsored by the Davidson College YMCA and the National University Christian
Mission. The objectives of the week were to present the Christian faith as a basis for social concern and action
especially in the areas of Southern racial tensions, Southern economic problems, and the South’s role in...The world community, and the
Christian role in politics. During this week, five religious and political leaders (Col. Francis Miller, Dr. Addison Letich, Dr. Waldo
Beach, Dr. Lester G. McAllister, and Rev. Harry E. Smith) spoke in classrooms, personal conferences, afternoon seminars, and bull sessions.
The movie “Pinky,” which depicted racial problems, was also shown.

Davidson lost 40 men after the first semester, lowering enrollment to 805. The sophomore class lost 20 men and the
freshman class, 16. Of the 40 men, 34 left involuntarily. This was a “mortality rate” of 4.5%, as compared to
the usual 3%.

He relates that “Mexico had the Davis Cup in doubles, and we had to play them.” Although he lost in
singles matches to Venezuela and Aruba, he claims that he enjoyed the competition. He adds, “I was just happy being
there.” This August, if he qualifies, he hopes to join his sister in representing his homeland in the Pan American
Games, which will be held in Cuba.

Manibo says he likes the “closeness” of Davidson, but he admits that he used to be frustrated by the academic
prowess of other students. He now says that “You just work for yourself. You satisfy yourself.” This spring he plans
to take the MCAT, and he is considering specializing in pediatrics in medical school.

But Manibo’s time is not allocated to just studying and tennis. Although he is a member of Kappa Sigma, Manibo
admits that he is not very socially outgoing, preferring instead to engage in other sports, such as windsurfing. Manibo does
not plan tennis as a career, and for now, he plans to continue playing at Davidson. “I’m very happy here,”
he confides. “I’ve been able to play tennis and I’ve been able to get a good education.” He will continue
to focus on these goals, he said.

By Kirsten Stricker

If you have spent time in the Union, Verdie Barringer’s friendly smile has probably greeted you. Now she has reason
to grin even wider, for her poetry recently received national recognition. In a contest sponsored by the World of Poetry,
her poem “The Flute” won honorable mention. “I was excited!” was how she described her emotions upon learning her work
was selected from more than 3,000 entries. “My certificate is on the wall at home.”

Barringer began writing poetry about four years ago, about the same time she started working for Davidson College. She sees
this as more than just coincidence because for her the two serve the same purpose. Just as her cleaning performs
a needed service, so does her poetry. Both allow her to give something to others.

Likewise, the college community has played a vital role in helping Barringer to develop her talents. She is quick to
credit Union Director William Brown with encouraging her to write during her breaks and giving her a “helping hand.” Ruth
Pittard, Program Coordinator, has also provided assistance and Dr. Holland and Dr. Abbott of the English Department critique her work
and offer suggestions. Students also influence Barringer to go forward with her poetry; in fact, it was a student that
pushed her to petition.

Continued on Page 13
