6 OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Don’t Believe the Hype: Laid Back Is Backward

I apologize for delving into the morass of platitudinous bitching, but I got a burr in my britches. I’m from the South and this is not an attack on the South, its values, its culture, its dress, its mannerisms. It’s been done badly too often and it offends me. It is an attack, to use the violent language of our age, on what it is to be human at Davidson College, Davidson N.C., USA, Earth, Universe.

Sherwood Anderson in the early part of this century wrote that a person who holds onto an idea, or truth, too strongly, becomes a grotesque, or freak. The pseudo way-kind, laid back, good ol’ boy, great guys around here are freaks. How is it that I can feel so threatened by such a seemingly non-threatening way of life? Because taken to its extreme it represents blind conformity, fear of originality, and plain ignorance. Them things are at the core of most evil committed by humans on other humans.

Read an editorial on politically correct language. Here we have an example of a good idea gone malignant. I submit that here on campus there is a type of censorship just as invidious. A good idea, call it calmness of character, becomes grotesque. And not to be having ideas and trying to communicate is not cool? Or laid back enough? Where is the energy and idealism of our age? We spend our time drinking, escaping. Is it because we are bored? Is MTV that interesting? Is the point of Davidson to nurture well-rounded thinkers? I think Davidson students are well-rounded to the point that they are boring as hell, celebrated in the way Anderson celebrates the community of freakdom. This is dangerous freakdom.

I feel somewhat alienated, for example, writing an article for The Davidsonian. At this school there is a subtle anti-intellectual mentality that sees writing for the paper as being somehow both pretentious and impotent. Of course, words are just words are just words. But why subtly censor them with indifference? Writing for the paper is not cool. Is it therefore safe to say that the point of Davidson is to nurture well-rounded thinkers? I think Davidson students are well-rounded to the point that they are boring as hell. Well-rounded from taking a band sander to our heads every weekend getting wasted and stoned. Work hard, party hard? Balance? Bullshit. I’m mad as hell. Someone told me yesterday to chill out. Not to take things so seriously. Go to hell I say. Or even worse, be boring.

Don’t you get fired up every time you go to class and learn all the amazing things possible in this world? I go to the library and it is some sort of manic ecstasy of information, and I rub myself right now thinking about it. No, no. That is what it means to be a geek. Instead, I am told by my culture and my peers, I must cultivate ennui. Doubt, deride everything. Jaded and comfortable, watch television and eat pizza and drink beer. For every season turn turn, I know, I know. I know there’s value in shooting pool, hanging out with the common man, just being, chillin’, etc. But there is a war going on folks. We are all going to die, first of all. Dried up, stinky dead and chucked in the hole. Make it an interesting trip. There’s so much going on in the world that needs our utmost attention. We must be prepared, learn to be most excellent humans, as Bill and Ted would add. We must know how to think for ourselves, but also learn how other people think. It’s the humanistic response to the problem of evil, of course, you’ve all heard.

ACADEMY CALLS U.S. TO ACTION

A recent report from the National Academy of Sciences, the leading independent source of scientific advice for the Government, urged the United States “to act promptly to reduce the threat of global warming.” Quick action against global warming, which the Bush Administration (especially the stalwart chief of staff Sununu) has opposed, now appears to be the only economically, politically, and environmentally sound option available to this country. Many of the steps recommended by the academy have been rejected in the past by the Administration, but it is evident to most that the recommendations are prudent, practical, and long overdue.

The Academy stated that there is clear evidence and wide agreement among atmospheric scientists that: 1) the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide has increased 25% during the last century and is increasing about 0.5% a year; 2) the atmospheric concentration of methane has doubled during that period and is increasing about 0.9% a year; 3) chlorofluorocarbons are increasing at about 4% per year; 4) human activities are primarily responsible; and 5) global average temperature has risen by 0.5 to 1.1 degrees Fahrenheit in the last century.

The following could result from these changes: 1) if no effort is made to reduce emissions, greenhouse gas concentrations could continue to rise, doubling the pre-industrial level by 2050; 2) this rise could ultimately increase average global temperature by 1.8 to 9 degrees Fahrenheit; 3) further increases in temperature are likely because the oceans release heat more slowly than land. Ultimately, the temperature rise could be twice as high.

Some of the measures the Academy called the U.S. to put into action include adopting nationwide energy-efficient building codes, regulation and tax incentives, strengthening Federal and state support of mass transit, encouraging public education and information programs for conservation and recycling, and sharply increasing the emphasis on efficiency and conservation in the Federal energy research and development budget.

The recommendations for reducing emissions made by the Academy are both cost-efficient and environmentally sound. When the forecastedCost to implement certain suggested actions is laid out against the potential reduction of carbon dioxide emission in metric tons per year. It is evident that these measures are the most conservative yet productive actions the Government could take. For example, actions such as increasing energy and vehicle efficiency hold a net benefit, after costs, less than or equal to zero, and hold a reduction potential of 300-900 million metric tons per year. Even the more expensive actions (agriculture and reforestation) only cost between $1 and $9 per ton of CO2 equivalent and have a reduction potential of 200 million metric tons per year. Evidently, the Academy is bringing into light what the Bush Administration and other naively conservative phallocrats have denied; environmental action can be not only cost-efficient and beneficial in the long run, but is also prophetic of our future human and earthly condition. Environmental protection and efficiency have left the realm of seriousness and entered the realm of essential. If you want a future, take care of your earth. Much of the information for this article was taken from the New York Times (4/11/91) article, “Quick Action on Global Warming Is Urged by U.S. Science Academy,” p.1.

Notes of a Hanging Judge
By Darry Strickland

In all honesty, I must admit that earlier drafts of this response to your column were laced with disparaging comments about both your argument and your persons. Although it may have been entertaining to call you the “Dysfunctional Duo” and the “Beyond Birkenstock Bozos” in print, it would not have been constructive. Therefore, I deleted it from my text.

After an earnest attempt to ignore their neo-conservative column all year, your comments of the last couple of issues have engendered what you have sought all year, attention. Like a child that soils its pants even when it reaches maturity, you have soiled the Davidsonian with your unenlightened and narrow-minded opinions. Even with my myriad grievances with your opinions, I still respect your right to say them. However, your comments about the UNLV players, even if it was a widely held media perception (a weak justification), broached an entirely different arena. I know you did not think that your off-the-cuff remark, ostensibly meant as humor, would warrant such vehement reactions, but without any malicious manipulation from your readers, it carried potential political implications. By the use of such double entendre, you sought to tow the line between offensive language and racist language. Therefore, your statement carried a price.

You say there was no racist intent behind your comment. I will take your word, because one could argue that point ad nauseam. But it was your insensitivity which became painfully apparent after your second column, when you indignantly claimed you were prejudged. In my opinion, no, it was not necessarily a racist comment, but your second column shows you really do not understand the people to whom you are offering smug solutions. I don’t buy the line of argument saying Blacks are hypersensitive to such words, basking in the victims’ role, looking for ways to foster a Black-White conflict. There is nothing romantic or noble about being a victim of racism or discrimination. Your quote from Shelby Steele that stated that African Americans badger Whites on principle makes grand assumptions. I do not believe all African Americans suffer from a paranoia that makes them see conspiracies and plots behind every misfortune. And more importantly, if some African American leaders do attempt to badger Whites on principle, their efforts do not necessarily translate into a practice for all African Americans.

Our heads are not empty fish bowls, where African American leaders can place incendiary slogans at will, and we respond. Some Blacks, like some Whites, may fall prey to demagogues, but to assume that Blacks have an unusual predilection to surrender their freedom of thought to our leaders is unsound and insulting. On the other hand, I guess you would propose that African Americans should not remain vigilant for instances of racism and discrimination knowing that this country does not have a history of oppression of peoples of color. Do not insult me. Laws cannot codify peoples’ behavior. Contrary to your assertion, the UNLV comment, because it was potentially racist, therefore held potential political implications, since it defined and described a power relationship. When you were taken to task on their comments, you ran behind the reasoning of humor, and supplied out-of-context quotes from Shelby Steele. Steele, an African American scholar-pigeon held by White conservatives because of his views about the problems of the African American underclass and his solutions for them, is only rehashing the blame-the-victim argument. Having an African American justifying your position does not make it right.

See "Strickland” on Page 8

Will Montgomery is a Junior English major from Atlanta, GA.