THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

CD Review: Fugazi: A Steady Diet of Nothing
By Josh Learned & Frank Lewis

With A Steady Diet of Nothing, their first release in over a year, Fugazi continues the exploration of the balance
between dissonance and harmony characteristic of their previous albums. For those unfamiliar with this highly innovative group, Fugazi rose from
the depths of the D.C. punk scene to become one of the most highly regarded bands in alternative music. Guitarists
Ian MacKaye and Guy Picciotto support each other in the capacity of lead vocalist, while simultaneously unleashing a manic whirlwind
of Marshall-driven guitar feedback. Bassist Joe Lally and drummer Brendan Canty provide the framework which keeps the group in place.
And MacKaye tops it all off with politically acute and direct lyrics which take a provocative look at many human
vices.

The band explores these techniques to an even greater depth on their latest album. “Exit Only,” the opener, creates a
contrasting wall of sound and silence which remains steady throughout the album. The lyrics, delivered in MacKaye’s defiant voice, remind
one of the Clash’s Joe Strummer. “Dear Justice Letter” deals with abortion, and another highlight is the song “Polish” which
is an incredibly derisive view of how television affects our world. And surprising changes in meter and key make “Nice
New Outfit” and “Latin Roots” two of the finer efforts on Diet.

The album compares favorably with their earlier efforts, and proves that, while some other “alternative” bands have begun to sell
out, they haven’t. For example, Charlotte had the pleasure last spring of seeing Fugazi at the Milestone. Never charging more
than $5 for tickets to their shows, Fugazi pour out their hearts at every roadside dive. And on the new
album, they manage to capture the adrenaline-crazed excitement of their live shows. While the Davidson student body may not be
ready for a band that sounds somewhere between the Boston Pops and dad’s power tools, A Steady Diet of Nothing
will force itself down the throat of those few hungry for raw energy.

Long Bed, Air conditioning, PS, PB, Aluminum Deep Dish Wheels, Cassette, & much more, 3 to choose from. List $13,318
- $3,125 savings - $1,000 rebate $9,193

NEW 1991 RANGER XLT
Your Lake Norman Ford Dealer
List $24, - $4,421 savings + $1,500 rebate

NEW 1991 BRONCO XLT
Loaded!!! Only one left.

1991 FORD
1991 FORD
NEW 1991 FORD
MUSTANG
4 door, P. brakes, windows, locks, real
Power locks, windows, 10 changes
$5,001
Only 1 left, List $14,146

1991 THUNDERBIRD
4 door, P, cruise control, brakes, windows, locks, AM/FM stereo!!!
$15,990

Program previous
FORD VICTORIA
choose from.

1991 FORD EXTENDED
CONVERTIBLE
$14,990

1991 MUSTANG GT 5.0
$2,139 savings - $1,000 rebate
Automatic transmission, air
sliding rear window
List $20,000 - $3,000 savings - $1,000 rebate
$12,980

NEW 1991 HIGHTOP CONV. VAN
Absolutely loaded, includes TV, Nintendo video games. Only one left.
$1,000 rebate - $17,990
$16,988

Kiss Continued from page 7.
land wrote of the 1948 production, “If this isn’t the best musical comedy I ever saw, I don’t remember what
the best musical comedy I ever saw was called.” Variety, also favorable, proclaimed Kiss Me, Kate as “The triumphant return
of Cole Porter, the prodigal composer, to the ranks of the theatrical great.” Kiss Me, Kate also received accolades and
honors, including the Tony for best musical production, best book, and best score of the 1948 season. The musical also
received the Antoinette Perry Award and the Page One Award by the Newspaper Guild in March 1949. When asked if
Kiss Me, Kate was the perfect musicalSuccess, Porter replied, “Almost. Then, unfortunately along came a little thing called South Pacific.”
Porter has also created and produced countless other works. One of the better collections of his songs is Ella Loves
Cole, an Ella Fitzgerald and Nelson Riddle album with thirteen Porter numbers including “I Get a Kick Out of You,”
“All of You,” “At Long Last Love,” and “Love for Sale.” Listen to this album once, and you will appreciate
the magnetism and talent of Cole Porter.

Please Note: Performances of Kiss Me, Kate run from October 10th through October 18th in Hodson Hall. For tickets or
additional information please phone 892-2340 or drop by the Box Office in Hodson Hall Monday through Friday from 2 to
5 pm beginning October 7th.

Awards Continued from page 7.

Up for a Grammy. For some strange reason, however, Travis Tritt is nominated again for best new artist. Go figure.
With several hits under his belt and a dynamite new album, he is probably the biggest star of the five.
He, Carpenter, and Tillis are the only ones who write their own songs, giving them a leg up. This award
could swing just about any way (Chestnutt and Stone have excellent chances), but Tritt may hold the slight advantage here.

Who should: Carpenter (but Tritt is right in there)
Who will: Slight edge to Tritt over the rest

Entertainer of the Year: Clint Black, Garth Brooks, Vince Gill, Reba McEntire, George Strait.

And now for the big one - and I’ll be if this isn’t the toughest one to pick. Each has
had a fantastic year on the radio, on stage, and in the media. Strait is the winner for the past
two years, and 1991 marked his tenth year in country. He still has enough hype to accompany his superb live
show and two latest hits. Gill can do it all, and do it beautifully; from playing lead guitar to mandolin
to putting forth some of the most powerful and stirring vocals in music, he has displayed enough great showmanship to
justify receiving an award that the CMA would love to give him. Black could get the nod, not only on
sheer merit, but also because a performer so popular in his field should not go away empty-handed. Reba has as
good a chance as she could ever have: four huge hits, a great live show, and gobs of public support.
Any one of these four would be a great choice, and would avoid placing all the evening’s glory in Garth’s
pocket. But, doggone it, Garth Brooks was the Entertainer of the Year, plain and simple, on the radio, in video,
and certainly on the stage.

Who will win? It’s a huge toss-up, and I can’t wait to find out.
Who should: Brooks
Who will: Gill (consider this fact: over the past ten years, there has not been a major sweep, and the
entertainer of the year has won virtually no other awards that evening. Reba and Garth are the other big choices
here.)

So, there it is. I don’t profess to be able to predict how the CMA will pick; its members take
great pride in making that impossible.

Batman Continued from page 7.

Lose a drop of blood! Just what the hell is that Bat-Suit made out of? And how does it protect
like iron and look like Sheer Energy? In the end, a giant Jack-in-the-Box shoots a thug out over the ocean
- and right into the arms of the Penguin’s exploding octopus. The octopus had been stuffed with dynamite, but how
they shoved it there, I guess we will never know. The crowning glory of the movie is the love scene
involving Bruce Wayne and the disguised Cat-Woman. The scene moves toward true passion, with Bruce cheezin’ hard and Cat-Woman falling
for it. Finally, he utters possibly the greatest line in all of film... “Of what use is a dream, if
not a blueprint for action.” I couldn’t agree more.

Tune in next week (or the week after), same Bat-Column, same Bat-Newspaper for another installment of Sitting in the Back
Row.
