16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

with Ruth Pittard, Union Program Advisor

By David Thompson

Union Program Advisor Ruth Pittard was recently awarded an opportunity to study in pursuit of a master's degree in New
Zealand. She will be leaving Davidson for one year in February. On Friday, April 5, Pittard took a few minutes
of her busy schedule to talk to The Davidsonian about her position here and her recent work with the upcoming
Solidarity Week.

Davidsonian: Describe your role as Program Advisor for the College Union.

Pittard: It’s hard to explain what I do. I am officially the advisor for the programming committees on the College
Union Board. Which means that I help them succeed at what they do, whatever that means.

It really means everything from helping with contracts, to deciding what food they’re going to have, to helping them get
a car to go to Charlotte, to running committee meetings, to listening to frustrations about people who don’t cooperate. Whatever.

We take the events through from start to finish. I’m there if they run into trouble, and to give them
some skills to do their job better. We have office hours every week, and they check in for a half
an hour every week to talk about how their committees are doing, and to talk about how the events are
coming, and to see how they can do better. I’m the person who has the overview and who ties them
together. I basically just help them to succeed.

Davidsonian: How’s Solidarity Week coming?

Pittard: It’s looking beautiful. It’s a perfect example of one of my personal goals: for student organizations on campus to
cooperate rather than to program against one another. This is an example of 25 people getting together to present programs
that interest all of them. This is only the second time that the SGA, the YSSC, the College Union, the
Service Coordinator, the BSC, and everyone on campus has done something together.

The only time that happened before was for the Solidarity Day. It’s come full circle, and I feel lucky to
have seen it. The first Solidarity Day was in reaction to a really negative, community-rending event, I mean the KKK
march in 1986 was not a pleasant thing.

Davidsonian: 1986 was a little before my time here. What happened with the KKK march in Davidson?

Photo Courtesy of College Relations

Pittard: I forget that people don’t know the history of this. The KKK got a permit to march in downtown
Davidson. Why they would want to do that is anybody’s guess. We’re known as a bastion of liberal thought. (Laughter)
Well, in the outer community. The SGA president and the Union board president got together with William Brown, and with
me and said “what can we do to offset this? We have this negative force coming through, and how do
we turn it around? We don’t want to greet negativism with negativism because it doesn’t work.”

What they wanted to do was to defuse the event, and to take the focus from the event. They thought
that the best way to disarm it was to ignore it. By fighting it you would really give it credibility.

So, what they did was to incorporate the SGA, the Union, the YSSC, the BSC, and everybody they could find
to put together an event behind the Commons. They invited everyone. They went out into the black community and asked
people to come to this event where the entire community could ignore the KKK together.

There were balloons, and ice cream, and children, and music, and games. We had a bunch of happy, positive people
out there while the KKK marched out in the empty streets of Davidson. There was just nobody there!

That’s how it all grew. Then the Solidarity Committee became a committee of itself, not of the Union or the
SGA. After a year or two of events that were marginally effective, they decided that they would go back to
the SGA. This year, Michelle Blake and Machelle Sweeting, and some key people on the Solidarity Committee said, “hey, why
don’t we do this again.”

This event began with a positive idea rather than as a reaction. Solidarity Week is about working together, talking about
things that affect our community and celebrating our diversity, and coming together at the end.

It’s sort of a landmark event. They came to the Union because the Union has the means to do it,
and the planning committee has included everyone. If for nothing else, the meetings themselves were justification enough for doing it.
In all the years that I’ve been here [15], I’ve never been involved with so many groups of people who
want to work together. Even that’s been good. I think it’s the beginning of a real campus-wide cooperation and a
willingness to ask some questions about how we fit together.

It’s nice to have been here long enough to see the turning of the wheel and realize that things change.
I’m going to sit down and write Rob Vaughn, the president of the Union when the first Solidarity Day took
place and tell him that he helped to make a difference. Students don’t really get to see the long-term effects
of what is done here, and it’s nice to be here and see the difference.
