THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

Kuykendall Continued from Page 1

What we need for the future of our athletics is a sense of stability and belonging. And I’m not sure
that a pilgrimage from conference to conference provides us with that sort of stability.

Davidsonian: Has it been a worry that the Big South is not as academically on the same level as Davidson?
The thought of a southern Ivy league is appealing with schools like Washington and Lee, William and Mary, Emory, and
others.

Kuykendall: I think it would always be attractive to have a natural collegiality, but you have to look at the
schools you’ve mentioned and others like Furman, and note that they are all at different places athletically. Theoretically, what you
say has great cogency. Practically, what happens is that institutional interests seem to dominate over any kind of allegiance to
a confederation. It’s an ideal that probably isn’t practical at this point.

Student Body Expansion

Davidsonian: There are rumors that Davidson is expanding its student body to 1600. Could you discuss this and some of
your other major aims you have for the college’s future?

Kuykendall: It shouldn’t be at the level of rumor or hearsay because it’s a policy based on a task force
comprised of faculty, administrators, and others who worked carefully for about a year and produced a report, recommending to the
Trustees gradual growth in the decade of the nineties from 1400 to 1600. Basically, this reflected in a pattern that
had been going on in the college in previous years: about twenty people a year up to 1600, presuming that
we have suitable applicants for admission so that we do not lower standards. Insofar as we had adequate facilities to
take care of that number thus means, in addition to the general use facilities we need to be sure we
have enough housing and other basic space. So it’s a studied decision. It’s not one that can be plotted with
absolute accuracy. What seems to have transpired in the last couple of years is that we’re getting a certain amount
of fluctuation in those areas. At any rate, next year we’re looking at 1440-50 which would put us at 1600
by the end of the decade.

Finance and Faculty

Davidsonian: What about some other aims of the college?

Kuykendall: One that’s on my mind right now is the provision of an adequate financial base for Davidson’s future. The
Campaign for Davidson has in it roughly two dollars of endowment for every dollar spent on capital funding projects. One
of the few areas in which we do not compare well with our peer institutions in the national liberal arts
category is in the matter of financial support. We are not as expensive as many of them in terms of
tuition and fees--hard for Davidson students to believe, I’m sure. But at the same time we don’t have the endowment
base that many of them have to undergird a well-balanced budget year-by-year. I hope the Campaign will do something to
alleviate this.

We also have concerns about recruitment, recruitment of students in a time when the demographic pattern is in a negative
direction for the next three or four years. And in a time when the South is being discovered as a
hunting ground for institutions from other parts of the country who are in regional population declines of their own. Thus
they look to the area from which Davidson has traditionally drawn most of its students as an area to which
they can now come and attract some good students, too.

Recruitment of faculty members is also a major concern in a time in which we are told that the demographic
pattern once again is a negative one because the teachers who came into higher education in America in the immediate
post-World-War-II period are now approaching retirement years. Also, because there was a glut on the market ten years ago, teaching
was not an attractive option for younger people graduating from college seeking their life’s career, so we’ve got a little
bit of a gap there. The same thing is true for administrators. All the time you’re looking for sensitivity and
skills, not just somebody who comes in to do a certain job--just that job--that they might just as well be
doing at another institution.

Minorities

Davidsonian: An article recently suggested that there be more black students recruited on campus as well as faculty. What do
you envision as far as minority recruitments here?

Kuykendall: Well, I was interested in the article because this has been a major concern of ours and we've tried
a majority of approaches. There is obviously only limited gratification in the fact that we’ve held our ground; the disappointment
is that we haven’t gained ground. It is our intention to continue to have a person on the admissions staff
with primary responsibility for the recruitment of minority students. The painful thing for us is that we’re in such an
intense competitive environment that we're really not seeing much growth there. Truth to tell, we’ve probably done a little better
than in most recent years in the area of recruitment of minority faculty, and I would argue we have a
very solid base in terms of diversity and adequate preparation for the minority students who are here. The kind of
thing we have done in Love of Learning accrues to our benefit. It demonstrates our seriousness about being a school
which is viewed as a viable option for minority students in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg area and from elsewhere who’ve heard of
what we’re doing. So we shall continue to do what we’re doing and try to do it a little bit
better and certainly if appropriate new methods occur we’ll try them, too. I think the college has been more aggressive
about this than the results demonstrate.

Personal

Davidsonian: What differences do you see here now from when you were a freshman here?

Kuykendall: Oh gosh. Let me start with the insularity of Davidson when I was a student. It’s gone. In terms
of the community itself we are now nearly suburban Charlotte, and we need to acknowledge all of the benefits and
potential liabilities that that maybring for us. We are also part of the larger world in a way which was
not evident to Davidson students in the Fifties. I cite an example frequently of a friend who went JYA on
his own and paid the price by having to stay the equivalent of an extra semester at Davidson in order
to finish his work. In part, this was because Davidson just didn’t know how to deal with what he’d been
doing in this other setting. It was not encouraged though it was not necessarily discouraged. The interpenetration of this institution
with its environment is quite different than it was thirty years ago, and I said interpenetration intentionally because I think
it goes the other way, too: Davidson was largely a well-kept secret thirty years ago. It was a time when
Davidson graduates were welcomed into the best medical schools and law schools in the country, but it was not a
time when Davidson was a household word. That’s not to say we are that today throughout the country, and I’m
reluctant to push too hard on that point. I think it’s far better to have people speak well of you
because of what they know of you than for you to go out and speak well of yourself and hope
somebody’s going to hear it and believe it. This sort of reputation is not something you go looking for; it
has happened to Davidson in a very natural way because of such things as the excellence of our faculty—we’ve had
six faculty members be Case Award winners, five while they were teaching at Davidson. In addition, the students have a
good reputation while they’re students and continue that as alumni. And I think we’re going to continue to have that
kind of visibility within the region and in the nation. This has really brought a change to Davidson that I
never would have predicted from the vantage of thirty years ago. Another change was the decision to move to co-education
when Davidson did it, in the way Davidson did it. In retrospect, this is one of the most prudent things
in the life of this college. It’s been good for Davidson, just as it’s been good for the community of
higher education. Among the few remaining single-sex institutions, it seems to me that many have waited too long and have
done themselves some harm by persisting in being single-sex institutions.

Davidsonian: How would you describe your own significance?

Kuykendall: I don’t think any individual in a community like this should be presumptuous about the difference his or her
presence makes. It’s not only unseemly, it’s probably impossible to do. I have a certain tenure in this job, which
I hope will be determined jointly by myself and the trustees of the college and other interested constituencies. But however
that goes, my vocation is deeper and broader than simply this job, and I think that’s true about everybody else
at Davidson. There’s a certain human vocation that doesn’t necessarily depend on whether or not you hold this or that
title. I have this job in trust from people who’ve gone before, and I’ll pass it on to somebody else
who comes afterward. I said when I took it that the place does so well on its own I hope
I don’t mess it up! That’s still what I hope for.

Davidsonian: I guess we should ask the question everybody’s probably curious to know your opinion about: what is your perspective
on the Persian Gulf?

Kuykendall: I deeply grieve that we’re at war. I am increasingly sensitive to people at Davidson with various opinions about
why and why not. I do not believe there is a simple equation between the war that is and the
wars that were, but at an important time in my life, I was a campus minister with responsibilities for counseling
young men who were looking for alternatives to being drafted, some of which were legal, some of which were not.
At the same time, I was engaged in visiting those who were bereaved, and indeed even going to break the
news to some who'd lost loved ones in Vietnam. I feel in my spirit the agony that was this nation’s;
therefore, anything I say about the Persian Gulf must be read through the lenses of that kind of vision and
experience I had for five years of my life. I hope that the cynical interpretation of this war—that it is
one being fought merely for economic principles—is incorrect. I fear that it is a part of the explanation, though; and
to the extent that it is, we need to do some soul-searching as a nation. My sense right now is
that there are other much larger questions involved that will continue as we go further into this. It becomes extremely
personal to me on three counts: the first is obviously as a parent of military-aged sons. The second is as
one who is a friend to a number of people who’ve actually gone to war—graduates and others. The third is
a very pragmatic one, and I hate to even mention it, but there’s nobody around here who’s ever tried to
run a college under wartime circumstances. Nobody on the current staff of Davidson was working here in a position of
responsibility when December 7, 1941, came, for example. So one of the things that has been preying on my mind
is: What impact does this have on this institution? What if, for example, the draft were reinstated and age twenty
was the target age as has been indicated in some reports? A major portion of the sophomore class would be
out of Davidson. Gone immediately. How do you cope with those sorts of things? So I am concerned, and this
is a selfish concern, about the balance and stability of this institution under these sorts of circumstances. Still, our major
concern is what the nation itself and the individuals involved in combat will do. All of us have become CNN
junkies; that to me has become one of the peripheral phenomena of this whole thing—the way in which the media
have been so focal to the war itself. I think the next stage, whatever it is, should be fearsome to
all of us just in terms of what implications there are to civilization.
