Charlotte Hosts THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

Planned Parenthood's 20th Anniversary

Courtesy Planned Parenthood

Faye Wattleton, President of Planned Parenthood Federation of America and internationally known spokesperson for reproductive freedom, will be the guest speaker at Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte’s Twentieth Anniversary Luncheon. More than 800 are expected to attend this event which will take place on Wednesday, March 6, at noon, at the Omni Charlotte Hotel.

In addition to Mrs. Wattleton, the program will include the presentation of the Margaret Sanger Award to an individual for distinguished service to planned parenthood and voluntary family planning. John T. Munce, Chair of the Board of Directors, will preside at the luncheon. The luncheon is open to the public by reservation only. Tickets are $20 per person, $200 for a table of 10. Call Bobbie Campbell, (704) 377-0841, for more details.

1991 SUMMER SCHOOL CALENDAR

Session I: May 20-June 24
Session II: June 26-July 31

NC Resident Nonresident
Undergraduate: $110 plus $30 per credit hour $210 per credit hour
Graduate: $110 plus $40 per credit hour $220 per credit hour

UNC-CH offers, during two 5-week sessions, one of the largest summer programs in the United States. Over 900 courses are scheduled in 40 disciplines. A typical course load per session is 4-7 semester hours. For the first time, some evening and night courses are offered. Spaces are also available in Summer School Study Abroad programs. Special rates are available for teachers, rising high school seniors, and others who meet certain criteria.

Mail to: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Summer School, CB #5400, 200 Pettigrew Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3340, Phone: (919) 962-1009 (AA/EEO Institution)

Gulf Continued from Page 1

During this crisis, Gibson noted, metaphors of medicine, gaming, and even rape have been used. She referred to the popularity of such phrases as “surgical strike” and “antiseptic war,” as well as the continued use of gaming language to describe the conflict. George Bush’s description of the Iraqi invasion as a “ruthless, systematic rape” in his State of the Union address and other examples of violently sexual language which has been associated with combat also inspired discussion. Finally, the conference spoke about the underlying metaphor of big business in any discussion of war. For whatever reasons, the language of “costs” and “gains” has permeated the war, as nearly all other areas of life.

Gibson passed out copies of a resolution passed by the National Council of Teachers of English in 1971. The resolution makes her interest in language and the abuse thereof quite clear: “Although teachers of English do not make national policy, we should do what we can to free public language and thought from manipulation by the powerful. Be it therefore resolved that the National Council of Teachers of English find means to study the relation of language to public policy, to keep track of, publicize and combat semantic distortion by public officials, candidates for office, political commentators, and all those who transmit through the mass media.”

The conversation progressed into a discussion of the justice behind the war. Philosophy professor Dr. Robert Maydole presented a list of criteria (his own compilation and interpretation of the ideas expressed by such philosophers as Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, and St. Thomas Aquinas) which explain the nature of a just war, and argued that, according to these criteria, the war with Iraq was just. First on the list was a requirement of “just cause.”In Maydole’s words, “war may be waged only if there has been a wrong done and an injustice committed which has resulted from aggression. Iraq’s aggression against Kuwait made the cause just. They invaded a peaceful neighbor, killed thousands of Kuwaitis, raped women, robbed and took hostages, reigned terror, threatened chemical and biological attacks against anyone who might try to stop them, annexed Kuwait, and claimed a Pan-Arab right to do it again.” Next was the necessity of “right intent”; in other words, “war may only be waged for the purpose of restoring peace and justice.” Maydole claims that “the allies' motive for entering the conflict was to liberate Kuwait. The USA might have desired cheap oil and regional hegemony; but not all desires are motives for action. It is possible, moreover, for political aims and moral motives to coincide.”

"War must also be the last reasonable resort, and only after all peaceful means have been tried or seriously considered,” if it is to be considered just. Maydole refers to the repeated attempts on behalf of several world leaders to persuade Iraq to leave Kuwait. Iraq’s refusal to cooperate diplomatically left force as the only viably effective alternative. Anyone who would wage war must also possess "Legitimate Authority". War can only be undertaken by “legitimate and competent authority.” In terms of the Persian Gulf crisis, Maydole cites the resolution passed by the United Nations Security Council authorizing the use of force.

Fifth on the list is a “Declaration of War: War may be waged only if the persons who will be affected have been informed, when reasonable, that it will be forthcoming.” Maydole states that “Iraq was given a satisfiable deadline for withdrawing from Kuwait, and told that failure to comply would result in war.” “Hope of Success” is also mandatory to a just war. Only war which is “very likely to result in a just peace” can be considered just. The superior military capability of the Allies satisfies this requirement for Maydole.

Maydole’s list presents modifications of proportionality and discrimination in his description of a just war. Proportionality, as modified towards modern warfare, specifically the war in the gulf, mandates that the “actual harms caused by going to war must not exceed the harms that would result from not going to war; and the risks of harm caused by going to war must be less than the risks of harm caused by not going to war.” For Maydole, “it was far better to suffer few casualties and small risks now than massive casualties and great risks later.” Modified discrimination requires that “military action must not be intentionally directed against innocent persons and noncombatants; and the risk of harm to the innocent must also exceed that of not going to war.” Maydole points out in the list, that the Allies con-

Continued on Page 4

50 States Seminars, our nationally known organization is seeking an assertive, dynamic and motivated individual to teach and conduct “No Money Down” real estate seminar in your area. You have seen these seminars on T.V. Now conduct them yourself. $3000.00 to $6000.00 per month possible p/t; $10,000.00 to $15,000 possible f/t. Don't Delay Call for an interview, (208) 342-0950 or (208) 338-9960.