THE DAVIDSONIAN 17 Sports MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Men's Soccer Falls to N. C. State, Defeats Appalachian State 2-1

By Tom Price

In two home matches this week, the Davidson men’s soccer team came away with a split. The Wildcats nearly pulled
off a come-from-behind upset of North Carolina State, but eventually lost on a late, heartbreaking goal. Against Appalachian State on
Saturday night, the ‘Cats did manage a successful comeback in gaining a 2-1 win. The two games left the Wildcat
record at 3-7-1.

After 118 minutes of intense, emotional soccer, Davidson and N.C. State were deadlocked 2-2. State scored midway through the first
half and then seemed to break the game open with a score early in the second half. Then, suddenly it
seemed, the ‘Cats scored twice in the last twenty minutes of the second half to send the game into overtime.
With only a minute and a half left in the second period of overtime, N.C. State forward Roy Lassiter outraced
the Wildcat defense to score and give the Wolfpack a hard-fought 3-2 win.

Ben Hayes netted the first goal for Davidson off a beautiful cross from Spider Wormuth. Hayes was recently moved up
from the defensive end to help stimulate the offense. Coach Slagle’s action seems to have worked and Hayes is emerging
as one of the team’s leading scorers. Stopper Matt Spear scored the tying goal after the State goalkeeper bobbled the
ball in front of the net. Prior to this season, Spear had never scored a college goal, but now has
two on the season. His offensive contributions are representative of the team’s effort to find new scorers.

Big South Conference Soccer Standings (through 10/5)
Radford 3-0-0
Winthrop 2-0-0
Coastal Carolina 1-0-1
Campbell 1-1-0
Liberty 1-3-0
Charleston Southern 0-2-1
UNC-Asheville 0-3-0
Davidson 0-1-0

Results:
Winthrop 2 UNC-A 0
Coastal 3 Chas. So. 3
Radford 2 Davidson 1
Coastal 2 UNC-A 0
Davidson 2 Liberty 1*

* Davidson’s win over Liberty, because of Big South scheduling oddities, counted only for Liberty.

Slagle remains pleased with his team’s efforts. He explained that the goal by Lassiter was partly a result of Davidson’s
aggressive play. “We were playing for the win on a corner kick play and it took a great individual effort
to beat us,” he said. Davidson had pushed its defensive players up in front of the goal to try and
score. When State got the ball back, Lassiter simply outran the Davidson defense. Slagle said he considers Lassiter to be
“among the three fastest players in the NCAA.”

Despite periods of sloppy play, the team managed to pull out a 2-1 victory over Appalachian State Saturday night in
their first game of Charlie’s Tournament. The Mountaineers scored first when Davidson fullback Cliff Castelloe and goalkeeper Doug Long miscommunicated
in an effort to get the ball into Long’s hands. The Davidson offense grew more effective and the ‘Cats began
bombarding the Mountaineer goalkeeper with shots. After a couple of impressive saves by the goalkeeper and two shots that hit
the crossbar, junior Craig Omli finally put the ball into the net to tie the game. Only minutes later, senior
Spider Wormuth scored the game-winning goal on a header.

The five goals scored in these two games are an indication that the Wildcats are improving offensively. The loss of
All-American Rob Ukrop has caused the ‘Cats to find other scorers. Players such as Wormuth, Spear, Omli, and Hayes are
helping to fill the void. Slagle said that at this juncture, “Our goal is to get back to .500 and
then we will be back in the regional rankings.”

Swimmers & Divers Nipped By UNCC in Debut Performance

By Chris Hood

Davidson’s varsity swimming and diving squads returned to action for the first time since 1982 with a home meet against
UNCC on October 8. Although the men lost 110-101 and the women fell 126-91, there was much cause for optimism
among the ‘Cats. “I was amazed at how competitive we were,” beamed Head Coach Ron Morrow. “We’ve attracted some caliberSwimmers
and divers and we’re going to do well.” Hayler Osborn and Dan Ream captured the 100 meter Breaststroke and 500
meter events with times of 1:05.92 and 5:27.69, respectively. For the women, Miche Baskett’s 27.94 in the 50 meter Freestyle
earned her a first-place finish. Tracy Barwick won the 100 meter Butterfly, but her time was unavailable. The ‘Cats swept
the top spots in all four diving events. Thad Reece scored 179.20 points to win the one meter competition, but
his winning score in the three meter event was not calculated. Liz Vona tallied 203.75 points in the one meter;
her three meter results were also unavailable. Morrow pointed to Davidson’s depth as its strongest suit. “We have so many
swimmers willing to put out the effort,” he explained. With the new timing system at Cannon Pool, swimming and diving
meets are more geared toward the spectators. “Before, it was so hard to know what was going on,” Morrow said.
The ‘Cats will host two meets over Homecoming weekend: On October 25, Georgia Tech visits Davidson; the following afternoon, Virginia
Tech will challenge.

Women's Harriers Take Second At the Citadel Invitational Meet
By Richard Wharton

The Davidson cross country team spent fall break recuperating and undergoing relaxation therapy at the Isle of Palms in Charleston,
South Carolina. After recovering sufficiently from the stressful pre-fall break atmosphere at Davidson, the men’s and women’s teams went on
to excellent individual performances at the Citadel Invitational on Saturday, October 5. The day dawned overcast and hot, with high
humidity - definitely not ideal conditions for racing. However, the women’s team showed their mettle as they once again ran
very well and came up with a second-place finish, only a few points behind Southern Conference powerhouse Furman. Finishing first
for the Wildcats was team captain Kathy Beach, with sophomore Karen Marshall right behind her. Astounding freshman Elizabeth Bishop rounded
out Davidson’s top three, with another demonstration of the women’s.

See "Harriers" on page 18

By Bruce Balestier

Freshman cornerback Andre Ferree’s interception in the final minute of the game made sure Davidson’s 16-14 victory over Washington and
Lee Saturday in Lexington, Va. The Wildcats (2-3) had assumed a 16-0 advantage in the third quarter, but watched it
evaporate with a pair of fourth quarter W&L touchdown drives. The Generals had the ball after a recovered onside kick
before Ferree’s interception snuffed their hopes. Junior Leonel Benoist’s fumble recovery gave the Wildcats fine field position on their first
offensive possession. That drive started at the W&L 35-yard line, and ended two plays later in the endzone on a
32-yard scoring strike from Richard Howell to John Bodkin. Drew Fassett missed the extra point, but redeemed himself in the
second quarter with a 27-yard field goal that made the score 9-0 at the half. In the third quarter, freshman
Kevin Holzworth replaced the injured Howell and completed the scoring for Davidson with a 26-yard touchdown throw to Kelly Shirley.
Fassett’s PAT made the score 16-0. On the possession that followed, the Generals drove to the Davidson 35, but were
bogged down by two holding penalties, an offsides penalty and three consecutive quarterback sacks. However, on the subsequent 4th-and-54, Davidson
roughed the punter for an automatic first down. Washington and Lee made the most of the reprieve, cashing in that
drive for a touchdown, and scoring another TD to close to within 16-14 before Ferree’s interception finalized the outcome. Howell
completed 8-12 passes for 110 yards and no interceptions and Holzworth 2-4 passes for 39 yards and no interceptions to
lead a surprisingly effective Wildcat passing attack. John Bodkin caught five balls for 79 yards. The Davidson defense held the
Generals to just 19 yards on 37 rushes. The Wildcats go on the road for the final time next Saturday
with a game at Methodist. The Monarchs fell to 1-4 Saturday with a 34-0 loss to Bridgewater. Davidson leads the
series 2-0, and defeated Methodist 49-7 a year ago.
