THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

Shaw Continued from Page 5

Another future conflict rather than prevent such a crisis. To rush to war is to release a Pandora’s box of regional geo-political, religious, and class antagonisms whose ultimate resolution will be unpredictable and uncontrollable by the United States. Even should the military option ultimately be exercised, it is still more prudent, politically and militarily, to wait until a later date. More time would actually make the military option more likely of rapid success. First, with effectively no new weapons or spare parts flowing into Iraq from its previous arms suppliers, its conventional military capability, both in terms of equipment and in training of personnel, will diminish. Conversely, the preparation of Allied forces would be increased. Continued supply of needed equipment, more desert warfare training, and improved lines of communication between the various Allied national forces would be to our military advantage.

Also, growing political tensions resulting from economic instability will increase the probability of disaffected elements of the Iraqi population (e.g. the Kurds) openly revolting against or less enthusiastically supporting the war. The counter argument, that such time would mean the Allied coalition would be less enthusiastic and break up, is simple-minded and devoid of logic. Can we expect that those who would abandon us in times of peace would be more apt to support us enthusiastically in war? Indeed, there are no guarantees that a war with Iraq will be sufficiently brief to avert the development of major anti-war sentiments at home and/or preclude Allied disintegration of support. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that war, whether brief or long, will not be so devastating to Iraq that, in order to ensure the balance of power, American forces will be required to remain for a long, expensive, and unpopular duration.

Should we then decide that war is the only and necessary hand to play now? There are still other favorable cards to be dealt. Indeed, that diplomacy, political pressure, and an unprecedentedly effective embargo will secure our objectives is a gamble. But it is one which averts destruction of innocent lives and valuable resources (i.e. oil) that would surely ensue should war be our course. Finally, if it is the desire of the United States to lead the development of a new world order, we must take heed not to act in the same old manner of being quick to resolve conflicts through force. The United States stands today as the only super-power, but should we use our full power toward war, without first securing more equitable burden-sharing systems, we will only speed up the day in which we will lack economic wherewithal and political will to effectively lead the world in securing vital interests into the future. We should be wary of overplaying our hand whereby securing our short-term objectives, we unwittingly sacrifice our long-term interests in the Middle East and the world. Quite frankly, if the United States desires to maintain its position of world leadership in the emerging new world order, it must be more than just a military leader, but a creative moral, diplomatic, political, and economic one as well.

War is not an option, but rather the final, the desperate, and the tragic last resort undertaken when all other possibilities for resolving crisis have been thoughtfully pursued and thoroughly exhausted. Simply stated: war has only one definite outcome: death. If we go to war and defeat Iraq militarily (as we unquestionably will do), we will forever ask ourselves: did anybody really win? It will be a question of even more bitter bewilderment should we know that humane alternatives went unexplored.

Attention Davidsonian Patrons

The Davidsonian's Spring Semester Publishing Date Is Monday. Now start every week off with "The South's Foremost College Weekly"

Section Deadlines:
News: Saturday, 1 p.m.
Opinions: Friday, 1 p.m.
Campus Living: Friday, 1 p.m.
Sports: Saturday, 3 p.m.

Housing Continued from Page 7

Last year (creating enough tension), now there are three. Where once we sought academic asylum in the “fishtanks” of Belk and Richardson, our lounges are now ad hoc dorm rooms. I give Davidson kudos for altering the old PAX house for homeless tenants. These methods of economizing living space at Davidson are dignified efforts, but as you squeeze more people into less space, the price is usually paid in tension and frustration. Furthermore, if the people in “triples” are allowed better numbers next year (I am in complete agreement with this policy), and more triples are expected each year, and we are not planning any new housing, where does that leave those with better than average lottery numbers? They are averaged down and become numbers that could easily force someone to live off-campus.Again, I feel that the real problem is that the community of Davidson does not have the capability of housing all of these dorm-less students. During the summer of my freshman year, I was on the wait-list at Davidson until mid-June (and the wait was well worth it). As a rising sophomore, I waited until mid-July to find an apartment in the area. It was actually suggested that I live in someone’s basement in Mooresville. I am willing to sacrifice convenience for attending Davidson, but will I be forced into making that decision (and will you?) just because of a lack of planning? It was a matter of chance (and shrewd bargaining) that I am living where I am living today. Frankly, I would like to avoid going through another summer with transfer applications on my dresser.

The life of the off-campus student is different. How might the Honor Code suffer if great portions of the student body live outside of school boundaries? I have no doubt that some aspects of the Code are suspended in amber when one takes two steps off campus. Further, support from the Davidson police only extends to off-campus students in a second-hand way. The officers cannot patrol the neighborhoods of off-campus students as they do on-campus dormitories. As thugs from Charlotte read about “the school that keeps their doors unlocked,” they begin to move their activities to Davidson. My roommate and I have little trust in our neighborhood: I sleep with a Louisville Slugger under my bed.

I feel that Davidson has not planned adequately for off-campus students. We are equal when paying our tuition, but not in reality. Such students undergo a certain alienation. Such students must try doubly hard—just because Davidson is deficient—to maintain a life on-campus with friends. I belong to an eating house and go out every weekend, but I feel I have lost much of the camaraderie of last year’s hall antics because I do not share a hall with close friends. This is not to say that living off-campus is bad for everyone. There is even a wait list (ugh!) for permission to live off-campus. Many have found it a great way of getting down to studies, away from the hall’s distractions. Now, during finals, I do sometimes appreciate the quiet and privacy of my own room. However, wait and live off-campus while attending a remarkable school, or go to another.

Davidson, N.C. is no megalopolis teeming with real estate; it is a tiny community that buckles under the tensions of a growing college. It seems to me there needs to be more communication between Residence Life and Admissions: there will one day be a limit (if it hasn’t already been stretched) to how many students you can squeeze into a room. There must be an appeal to the trustees to provide more housing (scrap the new parking lot?). In contrast to some colleges, freshmen have cars on campus. (This is a privilege, not a right.) Perhaps more dorms could be built on the space made available by removing this privilege. The college could also make serious efforts to stimulate a market for affordable off-campus living. There remains a great lack of rooms in Davidson and Cornelius (obviously not in Mooresville). Campus police could also devote more attention to off-campus students’ needs. A map marked with off-campus students’ homes might be good, and the police should additionally patrol Davidson’s WDAV back-road: this is a beeline for most off-campus students returning from late-night studying or parties. More importantly, police must ensure that drunk driving does not occur. Many students opt to drive home from a night of festivities instead of staying in a friend’s room.

No one seems to know who is responsible for dealing with Davidson’s growth. Whether we become a “Micro-Emory,” seems to be up to Admissions. Whether we graduate with four students per square inch appears to be left off the agenda of the Trustees. For those who attend Davidson with no problems with off-campus living, I salute you, I envy you, and I would love to meet your connections. But if Davidson continues to grow without better planning, the quality of student life will suffer. Are we helpless? Come lottery time, that question will be answered. I begin to wonder if I have a place at Davidson. It is apparent that Davidson does not have a bed for me.

Matthew Wazenburg is a sophomore studying abroad this semester.