THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991 17 Sports

Men's Soccer Wins Two of Three
By Tom Price

The Davidson soccer team managed to win two of its three games this past week. The Wildcats recorded victories over Campbell and UNC-A, but fell to UNCC. This week’s action left the Wildcats with a 5-8-1 record.

Last Sunday the Wildcat soccer team succumbed to two second-half UNCC goals in a 2-1 loss at Richardson Field. The Wildcats are one of the few teams this season to have scored on the 49ers, but UNCC remained unbeaten on the year by rallying for two second-half goals in the span of five minutes. Senior Lance Long scored the lone goal for Davidson in the first half on a powerful shot that found the corner of the net. The 49ers have been a major surprise in collegiate soccer this season. UNCC is now ranked fifth nationally and first in the south.

In an away game on Wednesday night, the Wildcats came back to beat Campbell 2-1. The ‘Cats had fallen behind 1-0, but goals by Cliff Castelloe and Lance Kinerk gave Davidson the win. Senior co-captain Lance Long was ejected from the game early in the second half, leaving Davidson with only 10 players. The fact that Davidson was down a man makes the comeback win even more impressive. Junior Matt Spear said, “This was an important conference win for us and we should be winning against teams of this caliber. This stretch is an important part of the season for us because we are trying to make up for the tough losses we suffered earlier in the year.”

This past Saturday afternoon, the Wildcats entertained UNC-Asheville, again at Richardson Field. The game had originally been planned to be held at the soccer stadium, but a concern for seating space caused the game to be held in the football stadium.

Davidson was never in much jeopardy in this game and coasted to a 2-0 victory. Sophomore Ben Hayes netted both goals in the first half. The Wildcats controlled the ball for the majority of the game and had numerous scoring chances. Davidson played smart, precise soccer for most of the game, but failed to get the ball into the net during the second half. Following the game, many Davidson players felt that they should have been able to score more against this conference opponent. This victory upped the ‘Cats conference record to 2-1. Hayes sidestepped his way through the UNC-A defense to score the first Davidson goal early in the first half. His second goal came off a well-placed assist by Preston Yarborough. This game clearly showed Hayes’ emergence as an offensive force. He now has four goals on the year. Senior Doug Long played an excellent game in the goal in gaining the shutout.

Wildcat Football Dealt Painful Loss By Methodist
By Bruce Balestier

When Methodist place-kicker Jeff Alton made good on a 24-yard field goal in the final minute of the Monarch’s 30-28 defeat of Davidson Saturday in Fayetteville, history was made. Alton’s kick was the first-ever successful field goal for the program, and it gave Methodist just the second win in their three-year football history. Last season, Davidson trounced the Monarchs 49-7.

Saturday’s game seemed that it might follow in similar fashion, when the ‘Cats converted their initial three possessions for touchdowns. Freshman running back Shane Mills’ 10-yard touchdown run, his second of the game, gave Davidson a 21-7 lead in the second quarter. Later in the period, a 26-yard TD pass from Kevin Holzworth to Kelly Shirley gave the Wildcats a 28-14 halftime advantage. Holzworth, standing in for injured starter Richard Howell, completed 6-17 passes for 104 yards on the day.

After halftime, though, the effective Davidson offensive attack turned completely inept. The ‘Cats earned but a single first down in the second half, and were on the field for just 7:58.of the 30 minutes. A pair of 3rd quarter rushing touchdowns by the Monarchs brought them within a point, before the final drive for the decisive field goal. A 15-yard face mask penalty moved Methodist into position for the winning kick. Said Holzworth, "Everybody knew this is one we really should have gotten."

— Photo By Casey Rogers

Volleyball Takes 3rd In Davidson Tourney
By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson Volleyball team moved its record to 17-10 (4-1 Big South) this week with wins over Coastal Carolina and Wofford and three wins in five games at their own Davidson Tournament.

The team began the week of play Tuesday with the unpleasant trip to Coastal Carolina. The ‘Cats began slowly, committing a number of what Coach Rebecca Hawkins called “van ride mistakes” in losing two of the opening three games. But Davidson gained momentum in winning game 4, and coasted to a 15-1 win in the decisive game 5. For Hawkins and her team, the win over the Chanticleers was a valuable one, in that it came in a dim, cramped gym, before obnoxious fans and against “the most athletic team” in the Big South. “We just kept being patient, and things finally picked up,” Hawkins said. “It was just a huge win.”

Thursday’s matchup at Belk Arena with Division II Wofford seemed, at least on paper, to be a breather for Davidson, and the match certainly started out that way. The Wildcats bolted to a 9-0 lead over a Terrier team that seemed unable to perform even the most rudimentary of volleyball skills. Curiously, though, Wofford won the next 11 points, with the help of some sloppy Davidson play, and took an 11-9 lead. Hawkins attributed the turnaround to, “more than anything, a lack of intensity on our part.” The hitting of Mimi Plauche and Janet Delery then reawakened the ‘Cats and their vocal contingent of fans, and Davidson took 6 straight points for a 15-11 win.

The Mimi Plauche show continued in the second game. She moved the crowd with a cannon of a spike to open the game, and aroused the Mimi Mash with a down-the-line kill for a 9-2 Davidson lead. Later in the game, Plauche took a Jordan-esque run from the back row, leapt from the ten-foot line and hammered a spike for a Davidson sideout. All that mashing translated into a 15-7 Wildcat win.

The Davidson win in game 3 was particularly gratifying because it was earned by a lineup comprised mostly of reserves. Third-string setter Jennifer Guise took the reins from Holt Hathaway at the start of the game, and led the team from a 14-8 hole to a 16-14 victory. Jennie Wagner’s service ace closed the game out in style. Said Hawkins, “It was good to leave them in there and see if they could pull it out.”

Hawkins anticipated a “long, physical, grueling weekend” with the Davidson Tournament Friday and Saturday, and said that she would be “ecstatic” with a 3-2 finish. Georgia Tech and UNC-Greensboro figured to be the class of the field, and that was exactly how it turned out. Tech took the title with a 5-0 record, while UNC-G took second with a 4-1 mark, their only loss coming to the Yellow Jackets.

Davidson beat the teams they were supposed to beat Friday, defeating Big South foe Winthrop (15-3, 15-12, 15-10) and Lake Erie College (15-7, 7-15, 15-8, 15-11). Saturday morning, the ‘Cats gained revenge for an earlier loss at College of Charleston with a three-game sweep (15-3, 16-14, 15-13). Later that day, the team was simply overmatched in losses to Georgia Tech (15-3, 15-10, 15-7) and UNC-G (15-4, 15-9, 16-14).

The weary Wildcats will take the court at Belk Arena again Tuesday night, when they face Radford in a Big South Conference showdown. The Highlanders were Big South Tournament champions last year. This weekend, the ‘Cats travel to the UNC-G Tournament.