16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Six Alumni Committed To Social Resolve

By Mark Damon Puckett

This week The Davidsonian interviewed a group of six alumni committed to social resolve. Dave Wiley runs a non-profit housing organization in Washington, D.C. Roger Brown is Chief Executive Officer of the corporate child care center Bright Horizons. There are 36 centers in eight states, two in North Carolina. Andy Lamas, Managing Director of PACE, oversees a non-profit agency that promotes low-income communities in Philadelphia. Bonnie Wright and her husband founded a credit union, non-profit, for economic development. Laurie Dunn is a neo-natologist (for premature offspring), and Crawford Crenshaw was one of the head fundraisers for the Harvey Gantt campaign.

Davidsonian: What’s the average age of the group here?

Andy: About thirty-five.

Davidsonian: Most people would want to settle into a constant life.

Andy: I think we’re all very, very comfortable in our lives. We’ve all found a way to do this work and be middle-class Americans by all normal criteria.

Laurie: I don’t think any of us are scared of being unconventional. The conventional model of having one career forever with the woman staying home for the most part ends up being a real easy path in a lot of ways. We have to ask ourselves how the family...

Davidsonian: What sort of ultimate goal do you have? How do you want this whole thing to end? You seem pretty driven, but you seem pretty honest about your relations with each other and your differences.

Crawford: All of us will have different answers on how we’d like this thing to end. Two things: probably we all would say we expect different things. However, having said that, I think we all believe we want to leave behind institutions that are doing things we believe in: the underclass or the poor or the educational problems, the homeless problems, the empowerment issues, the racial issues. Bonnie and her husband are right now in the Center for Community Self-Help and the Credit Union, which is a great source of capital for a lot of these projects. Laurie’s in neo-natology saving lives every day. Andy has done similar things with employee-owned businesses that are operating through employees who are really controlling their own destinies much more so than ever before. You’re dealing with housing in Washington, providing people that wouldn’t have had homes otherwise. Hopefully, these institutions will be here a hundred years from now. That’s the...

Andy: You know, I actually see it slightly differently than that—for me. It might be because so much of what I tried to do hasn’t worked, so I might be rationalizing. I actually think what we’re doing is contributing to broad social movements and we’re doing it in a variety of different ways. We’re not so much focused on doing things that are going to have a perpetual life, but we are trying to make contributions that are helping to energize particular social movements that exist at this time—contributing to movements in which people are disempowered. Part of your job is to adapt and try new things.dream. That’s the vision. Roger and his wife started a child care company that’s really changing the options of the working families in this country. They’ve got 2,500 kids under their care, which gives working parents very attractive options. That’s a great organization, and I think they’re at a point now like the Gantt campaign. Even though Gantt lost the election, many bridges were built between white and black citizens of North Carolina that had never been there before. Many people were brought into the political process because they were excited about his candidacy and what his candidacy did for the “new South” and for the new style of politics in North Carolina. And that’s going to have a life clearly beyond the campaign, so that there were many victories in that loss.

Davidsonian: Getting into something new all the time seems unstable. Knowing that you have failed before and will fail again—

Laurie: I don’t see that what’s happened has been a failure as much as a muddling through life and helping each other push forward ideas. But there hasn’t been any big global plan that we’re all working for. Another thing is I don’t think we knew how important our immediate families would be at this point in our lives. That doesn’t keep us from striving forward with the others. It did slow things down a lot.

Crawford: I think everything that any of us have done we’ve hit barriers and we’ve been created to jump over, go around, go under, go through.

Andy: Perpetual experimentation.

Bonnie: If you realize you’re doing something that hasn’t been done before, you have to know that some of it’s going to work, some of it’s not. It works in the unconventional model.

Dave: It’s really hard to think of it in terms of success and failure. Every day you have both. And so, on the whole, it is fairly stable even though this project is miserable and this project is wonderful; it all averages out.

Roger: You look at the world right now at people who thought they were in secure jobs in major U.S. corporations. Drexel-Burnham closed in one day, and thousands of people had no jobs. I don’t think there are any safe havens where you can feel like you’re immune to the vicissitudes of life. Everybody makes a very small incremental impact whether they’re very conventional or very unconventional.

Dave: If you’re betting your well-being on the assumption that there will be no change, you’re running great risks. Maybe one advantage that we have is that we are pushing for change.

Davidsonian [to Bonnie]: Talk about your kids and work.

Bonnie: Well, it’s really hard. Both of us working and both of us responsible for the same organization, which is a baby in itself. Takes a lot of time, a lot of energy. It’s hard on your conscience in terms of weighing the contribution you’re trying to make to the world and the contribution you’re trying to make to your family. It’s a constant struggle for me and my husband; it’s not a female struggle anymore. He’s not here because he’s home with the kids. It’s the kind of decision you have to remake every single day.

Richard Terry of Residence Life: Man With A Vision.