THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

Flint continued from page 5

Oh my gosh, would I have to get an abortion? I had been raised on the sex-only-after-marriage belief, and abortion was taboo in my family. My whole upbringing and sense of self had been destroyed in one night. At the police station, I had interview after interview, gave testimony after testimony. I was still on the drunk side, but was able to talk o.k. I was beginning to hurt all over, and I had one hell of a hangover. I had to tell complete strangers what happened - had to describe what I remember my attacker doing. I had to describe sexual acts that I had no clue about. Being a virgin, I didn’t know what was what. I had to identify my attacker - and at that, I drew a blank. I couldn’t remember his name at all, just a mnemonic device I had created the first time I met him, to remember his last name - which I couldn’t remember either. So I had to describe him.

After spending 4 hours in the police station, I went to the hospital to be treated. Before they would admit me, I had to call my parents and get their permission since I was a minor. That was the hardest phone call I ever made. How do you tell your parents that you had been raped - while passed out? Well, I told them and was admitted into the hospital. I underwent test after test. I had an OB/GYN exam done - and for the females in the audience, you’ll appreciate the fact that they use no lubrication to do so on rape victims so they don’t lose evidence. Pain is not the word. I had pubic hairs plucked from me, I had my vagina combed, and many other painful tests done. The hospital experience was probably the most traumatic part of the whole rape. My whole body was being invaded by people I didn’t know.

At the hospital, the doctor gave me a prescription for an overdose of birth-control pills so I would spontaneously abort, because they thought I might be pregnant. Afterwards, I went back to the police station. My parents had arrived and I had to give another testimony to be recorded for a court case if I decided to press charges. I also had to identify my attacker. They had found a guy that matched the description of my attacker and brought him in for questioning. He was supposed to be confined in a room with the door shut, but the door was left open by mistake. While going from one room to the next with an officer, we passed the room with Chris in it, and I fainted. Needless to say, that sufficed as my identification. I finally left for home at 7 that night.

The next few months for me are kind of a blur. My whole concept of who I was had been altered forever. I had to begin the process of rebuilding myself. It was a tedious and lengthy process and lasted well past my senior year - it is still going on. I had to learn how to respect myself. I had to relearn how to relate to guys. My relationship with my boyfriend was destroyed. He was a great support after the rape, but all physical contact ended. I wouldn’t even let him kiss me. I had to learn how to trust guys again. The list goes on and on.

What confused me was why Chris raped me. All I did was talk to him. I hadn’t even danced with him. I wasn’t dressed provocatively. I was wearing a heavy sweater, a turtleneck, and black pants. I just couldn’t understand why it happened. I decided to press charges for many reasons. First of all, I was already into it so deep it would look like I was denying the attack was rape if I backed out. It was labeled acquaintance rape because I had talked to him for about ten minutes and eventually could remember his name. Unfortunately, acquaintance rape cases are notoriously difficult to win. The rapist’s lawyer was already trying to reduce the charges to sexual assault - even to just sexual harassment. My parents both wanted me to go to court. So did my boyfriend. The rape crisis center also wanted me to. So we got a lawyer and got a trial date.

I was really worried about the trial. I was going to have to recount the whole rape in front of a jury. I’d have to face my attacker. And I knew it would drag on and on. I also knew that my case would be weak. I had been passed out during most of the rape and was intoxicated when I was conscious. I had taken a shower and erased the majority of the evidence. IF YOU ARE RAPED NEVER TAKE A SHOWER, NO MATTER HOW DIRTY YOU FEEL, UNTIL YOU HAVE THE PROPER TESTS DONE. IT WILL MAKE YOUR CASE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT IF YOU SHOWER. And Chris was a first-time offender - and not quite 18. He was still considered a minor. Even if we convicted him, he would probably only be sent to a juvenile detention center for a year or so, then upon turning 18 be only on probation... and he probably would turn 18 by the time of the trial. All he would get out of the trial would be a hatred of women, and I feared that he would rape again, if not me, some other woman.

So I decided to take a big risk, against the warnings of both my parents and lawyer. I made a conditional offer to Chris through his lawyer that first he must take an AIDS test, and if that came up negative, I would give him an alternative to the trial. His lawyer at first refused - to take the test would admit to the rape - but finally Chris had the test and it came up negative. So I proposed that instead of taking him to court, I would meet with him alone in a room - with help within reach, and planned to talk with him one on one to let him know what the rape did to me - and to find out why he did it. I didn’t let him know what I’d say, just that he had to stay there as long as I wanted. At first, he refused because of his lawyer again, but finally he acquiesced and on June 11, 1990, 8 months after my rape, I met with my rapist in a small lawyer’s office in New Jersey.

I was indeed taking a huge risk. I didn’t know if I’d be talking to a brick wall or not. I wouldn’t be able to force Chris to speak. All I knew was that I wanted to know why I was raped and to make sure that it never happened again. So we sat in that little office for over three hours, and amazingly, my attacker was responsive. I told him how I felt, what I went through, and asked him questions to try and figure out why it happened. I basically tried to psychoanalyze him myself. It turned out that Chris had wanted to take me up on my offer from the start. He told me how ashamed he felt, and to my astonishment came out and said, “Heather, I am so sorry.” Those were the most important words I have ever heard. And I knew he meant it. He told what had happened after the rape, how he dropped from #1 in his class to the 2nd from the bottom. He broke up with his girlfriend. His father disowned him. He withdrew all hiscollege applications. And he looks a mess. And I knew, for some reason, that I could believe him. He was crying when he told me and was crying and acting in a way that even the best of actors cannot imitate. And on coming out of that room, I knew that he would never rape again. I consider rape a “people problem,” and we had solved it on a personal level. I know I made more of an impact on him than any court system ever could have done. I checked up on what Chris told me, since he lived so near me at home, and like I thought, he wasn’t lying. I just hope that he goes on to improve himself. That’s what I told him when I left the lawyer's office. He told me that until then he had thought I was a vengeful bitch, but said he now realized that I was just a person too. The problem with rapists is that they make sex only a physical act. They act like animals, for they are ignoring that which makes humans a distinct species. They ignore their minds... but humans have both minds and bodies. Good sex involves the two. By continuing to ignore the mental aspect of sex, rapists will continue to rape, for they will never find what they are looking for via sex. I took a big risk by handling my case the way I did, but fortunately, it worked out for me. It might not have worked with a less receptive attacker. I hope I accomplished a few things by talking to you.

1. First of all, there is no such thing as a typical rapist. Mine could be anyone. So just be cautious. Watch what you drink, and how much. I don’t want to sound like your mother, but be especially careful with mixed drinks. They’re very easy to tamper with - and it's difficult to monitor what you’re drinking. Alcohol puts your guard down. I don’t know if I would have been raped or not if I hadn’t passed out, but at least I could have fought back.

2. Secondly, we need to continue to talk about rape and make people aware of it. The more we talk about it, the easier it will be for victims. We need to remove the social stigma of rape for the victims. We also need to let the rapists know that their actions will NOT be the cure to their problems, that by involving their victims it will not make their problems go away.

3. Finally, I want to make it clear to you that anyone can be a victim of rape. Age did not protect me, nor being at a prestigious University. It happened at Princeton. It happens here. It’s a problem you can’t hide from. And it’s a problem that changed me forever.

In addition, I want to add something about how the rape affected my relations with other guys. Initially, I fooled around an awful lot. I was trying to find out the meaning of sex - why people regarded it as so important. To me, it was only a violation, a physical act, and I couldn’t understand why people revered it. After a while, however, I began to feel extremely guilty about how I was abusing my body, and I felt used. I had to gain control over my sexuality. So I became an incredible tease. I had to learn that I could say no, that people could not take advantage of me... that people couldn’t abuse me. I regret to say that this behavior carried over into my first semester here at Davidson, but I thankfully can say that I am now approximately the same person that I was before my rape.

Heather Flint is a Freshman from Malvern, PA

Holland continued from page 4

clout, but rather a far more beneficial and potent form of power, i.e. the power of persuasion. This preferred approach does not require the employment of threats and falsehoods (e.g: “During basketball games we just can’t keep certain parts of the building open-” and “If closing eight times a year for basketball games is that much of an inconvenience, then we should close it [at] 5:30 every day so you could get used to it” and “If not, we'll do like most bigger schools and close down more” and “a lot of people will know Davidson through Davidson athletics, and unfortunately that has been a tremendous negative in recent years”). Instead, the persuasive person will encourage full consideration of the issues by all concerned. Then, with logic and facts and honesty as allies, the persuasive person will attempt to convince others of the correctness of a particular conclusion and proposed course of action. This is the Davidson way, according to my understanding. There is no place in this scenario for ad hominem attacks or overstated personal generalizations (e.g. “It is amazing how petty and self-centered people can be” and “--as much as we hated Chapel-”). These only create resentment, ridicule, and polarization. (By the way, I daresay you didn’t actually hate chapel; rather, you hated being forced to go to chapel. You wanted to make your own choices regarding matters personal to you.) Today’s Davidson students are imbued with freedom of choice--and they jealously guard that right against all assaults, whether from a parent, a fellow student, or a famous alumnus. Hopefully, you will soon learn that there are many differences, especially cultural differences, between Davidson as you knew it and the modern Davidson. Also, hopefully, you will apologize to the above-mentioned Davidson senior for your ill-advised attempt to impose your will on him. Such behavior, if not repented of, will create a chasm between you and the Davidson student body that will lead to no good. I hope you will accept this counsel as it is intended: to help you and all the fine young future American leaders enrolled at Davidson to establish a close bond of mutual respect and admiration.

Sincerely,
JAMES H. DAUTREMONT, Michigan ‘65

his class valedictorian. Yours could

Tavernise continued from page 5

effect be obvious. I have felt powerless and angry and ashamed of my gender, but what can I do but commit myself to ending this violence through the example of my own life, by confronting it directly in my own life, and by offering my love and dedicated support to these women, to stand with them as they tell their history. To stand by all my friends whom I love and who have been too long silent. That is the only thing I still cannot understand, the continuing silence of victims. Here tonight we speak for them and we speak for ourselves. We have been harmed and we are seeking healing together as a community, dedicated to re-creating ourselves, in order to become something much better: a community in which everyone can be safe. This is not just take back the night, this is take back your whole lives. You are doing something tonight to heal and to strengthen, walking and taking back your lives.

Peter Tavernise, '90, is currently working in the Alumni & Development office.

continued from page 4

concern is for Miss Cobb herself. Even after attending a month-long program at the Betty Ford Center for chocoholics, Marlo is unstoppable. It is our hope that this public notoriety will finally let her see the error of her ways. If not, we are afraid she might end up like the little boy in “Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory” who drowned in a chocolate river.

Sincerely,
AMY GOODE & LIA FRANKS