4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

Survey Continued from page 1

cent answered that there was either a minor or major problem of alcohol abuse among students. Thirty-seven percent thought there was a minor problem, while fifty-eight percent perceived a major problem. Respondents’ answers to seven questions on the survey borrowed from a National Institute of Health questionnaire revealed some specific problems of students associated with alcohol abuse. Terry found it disturbing that forty-one percent of the respondents had experienced a blackout. Also, Patterson Court members showed significantly more alcohol or drug-related problems than nonmembers. The results also show a significant correlation between lower GPA and more frequent problems with alcohol or drug use. Incidentally, the mean GPA of those who have never tried alcohol or drugs was 3.38. Overall, the answers indicated that up to forty-one percent of Davidson students may have a problem with alcohol or drug use.

Drug use seems to be much less prevalent, according to the survey. Twenty-seven percent of those polled have used marijuana while at Davidson, slightly lower than the percentage of those who used it prior to Davidson. The majority (fifty-three percent) of those who used marijuana before Davidson decreased their use while here. Surprisingly, however, the average number of joints smoked in a week was 2.43. Terry believes a possible explanation for that high number is that those who do use marijuana use it often and use a significant amount of it. The survey showed a relatively small percentage of students using Amphetamines (less than one percent), Cocaine or Crack (three percent), or Hallucinogens (nine percent). Most of those who used these substances prior to Davidson, decreased their use while at Davidson. An indication of the general scarcity of drugs on campus is the fact that not one of the 260 applicants strongly agreed there was a great deal of pressure to use drugs in order to fit in. Only one percent agreed.

The problem of alcohol and drug abuse is often related to the psychological health of the person involved. With that in mind, Dean Will Terry voiced some concern over the negative self-image that many students hold. Sixty percent of the respondents blamed themselves for their weaknesses, forty-one percent were having a hard time motivating themselves, and forty-six percent got tired more easily. The results of a standardized psychological inventory within the survey show that twenty-one percent of those polled could be considered mildly to moderately depressed. About seventy-seven percent of the students were judged asymptomatic.

According to Dean Terry, the survey is unlikely to spur any significant policy changes regarding alcohol. He will send a copy to the trustees for them to review, but he believes the survey generally confirmed existing ideas about alcohol and drug use on campus. Although most students start drinking before they come to Davidson, a majority of them increase their consumption once here, the survey said. Prior to Davidson, eighty-two percent of those polled had drunk beer; seventy-five percent had drunk liquor, and seventy-nine percent had drunk wine. Still, most students drink more once at Davidson. Sixty-five percent said that, once here, their consumption of beer increased and fifty-seven percent answered that their liquor consumption increased.

Letter Continued from page 1

of some things on the court and I am also concerned with everyone else.” He said, “It wasn’t a letter to come down on the student body, but considerations do need to be taken on the court.” The letter has generated confusion because it was sent out on SGA letterhead and appeared to be the work of the SGA Senate. Covington said that she read the letter to the Senate but did not put it up for a motion.of approval. Therefore, the Senate did not officially approve of this letter. “In hindsight, it would have been better to leave out the SGA letterhead," Covington said. “I’m sorry if that was misunderstood.” The four students who composed and sent out the letter also happen to be leaders or key members of certain campus organizations. The four listed their titles below their signatures at the bottom of the letter. The question of whether or not each organization approved of this letter was raised because of the organizations (SGA, PCC, Honor Council, and Student Conduct Council) being listed. According to Covington, the students did not attempt to get approval from the organizations and did not mean to mislead the student body into thinking that they did so. Covington said, “We put our titles down to say that we are student leaders concerned about this. In hindsight, it would have been better to just list our class.” Freeman said that whether or not he was on the Student Conduct Council he “would’ve been concerned anyway” and would have definitely given his input. Covington said, “I would have written it regardless of who I was.”

The letter starts out “LUSH, DRUNKARD, LIGHTWEIGHT, BOOZER, INEBRIATE, SPONGE, GUZZLER...” Covington said it began this way because the four seniors felt like they needed a way to catch people’s attention and make them continue reading. She added that this is a serious issue and they were not willing to spend time and money to send the letter out if people were just going to throw it away. Covington also commented on how the SGA is looking into a lot of issues concerning alcohol. She said that the Dean of Students helped with the mailing but had no input in the composition of the letter. “We felt like that as seniors we had a different perspective on things,” Covington said. “It was appropriate to say this is how we feel and these are our positions.” The faculty also did not know anything about this letter.

The Apple StyleWriter is an ink-jet printer that delivers laser quality printing (360 dots per inch). It’s not much larger than an average textbook, and it weighs only five pounds. Here’s the deal: We've paired some of the most popular Apple Macintosh computers with some of the most popular Apple printers. Buy one of these combinations, and save big bucks. Got it? Good. Now get going.

Macintosh Classic
Save when you buy an affordable Macintosh Classic computer with either an Apple StyleWriter or an Apple Personal LaserWriter LS printer.*

Apple StyleWriter
Apple Personal LaserWriter LS

*Offer applies only to a Macintosh Classic with a built-in hard disk. **Monitor sold separately.

Macintosh LC
This offer is available only for a limited time. See your authorized Apple campus reseller today for details. And discover the power of Macintosh. The power to be your best.

Macintosh IIsi
Save even more when you buy a high-performance Macintosh IIsi computer with either an Apple Personal LaserWriter LS or an Apple Personal LaserWriter NT printer.**

Apple Personal LaserWriter LS
Apple Personal LaserWriter NT

For further information visit Computer Services Center or contact Ellen Morrissey at Ext. 2432.

© 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, LaserWriter, Macintosh, StyleWriter, and “The power to be your best” are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc.