4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

Time for F.L.A.G.

On Tuesday night the SGA will vote as to whether or not F.L.A.G. (Friends of Lesbians and Gays) will be
permitted to establish a chapter of their national organization at Davidson College. The Davidsonian urges the student senators to vote
in favor of the measure.

Not surprisingly, several students and parents have expressed their disapproval of F.L.A.G. as they find homosexual activity to be intolerable.
Some claim that a Christian college should not advocate homosexuality by allotting F.L.A.G. a budget from student funds. Others suggest
that homosexual students should transfer from Davidson if they find its climate inhospitable to their lifestyles instead of making waves
around the school. The members of one fraternity at Davidson have even voted as a house not to support the
attempts of F.L.A.G. to get started.

The establishment of a F.L.A.G. chapter will, contrary to the protestations of many, contribute greatly to the social, intellectual, and
moral development of every member of the college community. First, with an active organization designed to promote the notion that
all people deserve consideration and respect regardless of how they achieve orgasm, homosexual students will know that there are several
at Davidson who do not castigate individuals on the basis of their sexual orientation. F.L.A.G. will provide a voice affirming
the right of the homosexual student to conduct his or her private affairs without harassment.

No one, of course, expects closet doors to fling open with libertarian glee as soon as F.L.A.G. gets a charter,
but with the presence of a F.L.A.G. chapter on campus, life for homosexual students, faculty, et alia will be less
confined. F.L.A.G. will continue to spark discussion among students about homosexual rights and issues. Simple dismissal of the topic will
no longer suffice. By bringing these issues into the public eye, F.L.A.G. will propel students to consider homosexuals and homosexuality
more thoroughly before passing judgment. This heightened awareness of homosexuals as people who need to be judged upon criteria other
than their sexuality will, we believe, prove both intellectually and morally edifying.

The apportionment of a small amount of student funding for F.L.A.G. will not, as some suggest, be contradictory to the
college’s orientation. On the contrary, the official establishment of the organization will fall directly in line with Davidson’s statement of
purpose, which states that the college “endeavors to teach students to think clearly and accurately, to make relevant and valid
judgments, to discriminate among values and to communicate freely with others in the realm of ideas."

While the editors have expressed ardent disapproval of many of the methods the organizers of F.L.A.G. have employed in order
to gain publicity, the notion which they promote is indeed a valid one. We hope the SGA will vote to
grant them a charter Tuesday night.

Editor's Note: We usually do not publish unsigned letters. We have overcome our contempt for such cowardice this week and
printed the letter signed "A Davidson parent" so that a parental voice, too rarely heard, could have an audience. For
future reference, however, stand behind what you write, or you probably won't see it in this paper.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather poorly
ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to
the editor or commentaries do not reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per
year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Students Criticize F.L.A.G.

To the Editor:

We, as concerned Davidson students, do not support or condone a F.L.A.G. (Friends of Lesbians and Gays) Chapter at Davidson
College. While it is onething to recognize homosexuals as having the same civil liberties as any other individual, it is
completely another to advocate and fund an organization such as F.L.A.G. at a private college founded on Christian values. It
is important to note that only a minority of Davidson students and faculty supported F.L.A.G. in last week’s petition. We
represent what is clearly the strong majority of students whose names do not appear on the petition. Moreover, many of
the individuals who signed this petition were misled. They believed that they were supporting only the civil liberties of the
homosexuals and have since been introduced to the fact that they were also signing to support and finance this group.
SGA members explain that the funds to maintain this organization will be drawn from the student activity fees. (The student
activity fee is a mandatory fee.)

See "Herriott" on page 6

Parent Opposed to F.L.A.G.

To the Editor:

I am gravely concerned over a matter that has been brought to my attention; that a F.L.A.G. chapter is to
be started on campus. As a Christian I see homosexuality as a sin which should not be encouraged! By accepting
and supporting such a group we are condoning its participants. Some of the reasons for selecting Davidson for our child’s
furthering education were its Christian heritage, honor code, and lack of such groups on campus. I feel disappointed and concerned.
I do not want any part of the student activity fee that I pay to go towards supporting a group
whose behavior is morally and socially unacceptable.

Sincerely,
A Davidson Parent

Former Council Chair Responds

To the Editor:

It didn’t take too much time out in the “real world” for me to realize how lucky I have been.
Living and working in a world seemingly ruled by power and money, it soon became painfully obvious that the privilege
of maturing in a trusting, honest community is the most unique asset Davidson College has to offer. The tradition of
honor at Davidson, guarded by an effective and firm Honor System, has left a lasting impression on who I am
and what I want to be. Unfortunately, I fear that future students may not have the opportunity to experience what
I and many other students have known, for I believe that the current debate over the Honor System may be
jeopardizing the future of this valuable tradition.

As I understand it, there has been discussion about replacing the standing Honor Council with a jury of students selected
at random for each individual case. Although this change may appear to some to be more “democratic,” I am convinced
that it would greatly diminish the quality and integrity of the Honor System. The first casualty would be consistency. Under
the current system, a freshman councilperson normally sits on his or her first case along-

See "Honor" on page 6

Bumstead Urges Positive Thinking

To the Editor:

The following is an appeal. Certainly it is an appeal to Jana Player and Connelia Holloman, but it is also
an appeal to the many of us who have written critical, negative, and often harsh pieces to The Davidsonian. I
write not only for myself, but also on behalf of many other students at Davidson who enjoy this newspaper each
week. Many of these students of whom I speak are freshmen with whom, as a hall counselor, I am in
close contact; in their first months here, these freshmen are confused and bewildered at the amount of negativity, cynicism, and
criticism that has run rampant in the editorial and opinions sections. Theirs are sentiments that I cannot help but echo.

No, I do not make an appeal for censorship. We are all entitled to our own opinions just as we
are entitled to print them. Unfortunately, I make what will most likely prove to be an idealistic appeal. Why must
these sections be used predominantly as forums for childish bickering and cruel insults? Why does there always have to be
a problem? I for one am proud to be a part of the Davidson community. Are we all not here
with common purposes? Do we not all share common loves, goals, and aspirations? Heck, didn’t we all fill out that
application?

Creative does not mean we have to be cynical and angry. No, I do not expect all-

See "Rainbows" on page 6
