THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991 3

Davidson Mathematics Initiates Honor Society in Bernard's Name

Courtesy of College Relations

Excellence in mathematics at Davidson will henceforth be marked by membership in the Bernard Society, a group named in honor
of a guiding light in the department for almost 30 years who could draw a perfect circle on the blackboard.

“Yes, I guess I did draw a pretty good circle,” laughed Richard R. Bernard, a 74-year-old professor emeritus living his
retirement in Davidson. “My father taught me that; he was a math teacher, too.” Bernard said he drew small circles
by using his elbow as a pivot point and sweeping backwards, and big circles pivoting around his shoulder. But he
shied away from giving a demonstration, saying the nine years since his retirement have rendered that skill rusty.

While students applauded Bernard's blackboard circles, he taught them a great deal more than skill with a piece of chalk.
When he came to Davidson in 1955, he regularly taught five courses. He introduced a course in topology to Davidson
in 1957 at a time when that subject was seldom taught at undergraduate institutions, and no textbook was available.

The 27 junior and senior students who were inducted as the first members of the Bernard Society at a dinner
on Thursday, October 31, all received a pin emblazoned with a common symbol of topology, the Möbius strip, as a
sign of their membership. Society members also receive a membership in the Mathematical Association of America.

The Davidson math department has created The Bernard Society to promote and recognize math at Davidson. All mathematics majors will
be inducted, as well as a few other students who show high aptitude and enthusiasm for the subject. The society
will also invite a renowned speaker to campus annually to lecture on mathematics.

The students inducted into the society are listed below:
Class of 1992:

Heather Brackbill, Mary Bryan, Barbara Defenbaugh, Alice Hicks, Bharat Krishnamurthy, James Leesch, Eric Moledor, Nelson Neale, Julie Russell, Steve Swain,
Tammy Winn, Mike Wright.

Class of 1993:

Rick Bender, Alice Chakmakian, Janet Delery, Bina Desai, Harin de Silva, Thomas Hunter, Glen Laird, Elizabeth McLaughlin, Henry Neale, Hayley
Osborne, Laurel Roseberry, Nick Russo, Marshall Smith, Deepak Vijayathilakan.

Or Bite... skip a meal on the Thursday before Thanksgiving, and join millions of students who, since 1973, have been
a part of the Fast for a World Harvest campaign. Help some of the poorest people in the world feed
themselves for a lifetime. On your campus, contact:

Hunger Awareness Committee 896-6825

Oxfam America

Lose your lunch November 21. To be sure how much you gain.

Fletcher

Continued from page 1

abortion choices, protection of privacy issues, counseling strategies, and the debate between voluntary and mandatory testing. Dr. Fletcher said that
the new technology, “vastly magnifies the number of people affected by these problems.”

Dr. Fletcher then discussed different views of the ethical problems. He touched on religious ideas, the women’s point of view,
and ideas from those with disabilities. The tension between conservative and liberal traditions concerning the rights of the unborn remains
great. Dr. Fletcher believes that with the explosion of technology and the ethical problems facing the genetic field, “human geneticists
have a special responsibility to lead the way into the future.”

Tensions

Continued from page 1

The response to the letters from the faculty and staff is excellent so far, Terry said, and he hopes that
an even larger amount of students will also respond and wish to work with this group or choose to attend
the forum.

Are You Considering Professional School?

HARVARD UNIVERSITY'S JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT

is looking for future leaders in Public Affairs. We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy, with concentrations offered
in:

- Criminal Justice
- Energy & Environmental Policy
- Government & Business
- Health Policy
- Housing & Community Development
- Human Services, Labor & Education
- International Affairs & Security
- International Development
- International Trade & Finance
- Press & Politics
- Science & Technology
- Transportation
- Urban Economic Development

Interested? Then come meet with the Kennedy School Representative who will be on your campus on:

DATE: Thursday, November 14
TIME: 10:00 am group session
LOCATION: Please contact the Student Counseling/Career Office for this information

ALL STUDENTS, ALL YEARS, ALL MAJORS WELCOME!

North Meck Computer Center

We offer a complete line of personal computers, printers, software and peripherals, and much more!

Stop by or call—If we don't have it we'll be glad to order it for you!

We're the largest computer store in North Mecklenburg. Let us know how we can serve you!

Huntersville Square 704-875-6333

10% OFF Any Item With This Coupon

Expires 11/30/91. Valid only for those affiliated with Davidson College.

Blood

Continued from page 1

more smoothly than the drives that he has been a part of the past three years.

The only problem that he mentioned was a shortage of volunteers. There were 31 ROTC volunteers on Friday who worked
a total of 78 hours. Leesch said that volunteers from the Charlotte department were contacted to help but were unable
to come.

RAISE $500...$1000...$1500

For your fraternity, sorority, team or other campus organization.

EDUCATION FOR THE REAL WORLD

Graduate degree programs: (MA; Ph.D) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues.

Area and Functional Fields:
- Interamerican Studies (U.S.-Latin American Relations)
- Soviet and East European Studies
- Middle East Studies
- International Relations
- International Business

Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid.

North-South Center

Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Assistantships.

GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES

Admissions, Room #366 Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 (305) 284-4173
