THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991 13

Campus Living

No Internships For Credit? Rumors Abound And A Non-Story Unfolds

By David Smyth

Many students over the past week have been shocked to learn that academic credit will no longer be granted for internships done in Charlotte or elsewhere during the school year. “But what will I do?” they’ve wailed. “I'll never be able to do my job at the Observer ‘cause they changed the #$%@! rules!” 

It has come as no surprise to Registrar Sue Ross, however, as Davidson College has never given academic credit for internships of any description. The recent uproar over the purported change in policy has been another typical Davidson rumor inflated to seem important to a worrisome student body. 

During research for this late-breaking “news,” though, Ross said a number of things about learning in general, and how Davidsonians benefit from traditional academia and real-world experience. “I don’t know where this rumor started. We’ve never given credit for internships. The faculty has been clear. You don’t get an academic course credit every time you learn something.” 

For Ross, the distinction lies in the difference between in-class and out-of-class learning. The transcript reflects in-class achievement, and that is essentially all. Students can often work in an internship within the parameters of instruction.

Oxfam Fast For World Hunger To Be Held At Davidson This Thursday

By Jackie Carberry & Mary Russ

Every day, 60,000 people die of hunger and related diseases. Forty thousand of those casualties are children under five. If you’re not shocked, perhaps you should be. 

We spend much of our time here at Davidson worrying about deadlines and commitments. Rarely do we take time out of our frenzied schedules to consider the plight of those less fortunate than ourselves. 

Facing crises like global poverty can be overwhelming, but we have no excuse to turn our backs on such a pressing and very real dilemma. It is within our power to make a difference through a simple act called fasting. 

Fasting is a noble tradition which has existed since before recorded history. A faster goes without eating by choice. Many of our neighbors around the world have no choice. They go hungry every day. 

Some people blame hunger on the hungry...believing that they don’t work hard enough or have too many children. The real causes of world hunger usually stem from policies and forces over which the poor have no control. Deprived of aid and decent wages, the poor are often forced into a state of hunger. They work hard, but the fruit of their labor is taken from them. Please do your part to help alleviate this crisis.

Paid Advertisement

The first bungee jumps were made from bridges by Australians and New Zealanders. But leave it to adventuresome Americans to refine the sport. While leaping from bridges gave Americans a thrill, authorities eventually deemed the bridge sites illegal. That’s when a hot air balloonist in California got the idea to offer the same excitement from an anchored balloon hovering above ground. 

The bungee jumper begins his adventure by riding with the balloon pilot 150 feet up into the air. The jumper is secured in a special harness that is attached to the heavy-duty elastic cords that are fastened to the balloon. Once the pilot gives the signal, the jumper moves onto a small platform attached to the balloon and takes off into the wild blue yonder. The cord, which acts like a huge rubber band, allows the jumper to free fall several feet and to bounce back up when the cord reaches its stretching capacity. The ride back up is as much of a rush as the free fall down. 

“Jumping from a hot air balloon is an exciting, colorful adventure for adults of all ages,” said Dan Stone, owner of Balloons Over Charlotte. “We've taken away the danger of bumping into a bridge and put in the thrill of free falling in a wide open space. We use a seat and chest harness which helps distribute the mild force over a wide area of the jumper’s body. This is one sporting adventure that people will be talking about for a long time,” said Stone. “Our bungee jumpers will never forget the thrill and excitement we gave them.” 

Balloons Over Charlotte is offering bungee jumps to thrill-seekers 18 and older. The company supplies all equipment and instruction. They suggest the jumpers wear comfortable clothing. For details on when and where bungee jumps take place and to make reservations, call Balloons Over Charlotte, (704) 541-7058, and get ready to have the time of your life. Group rates are available.Alleviate the problem of world hunger. Participate in the Oxfam Fast - You’ve heard about it, now try it.

Bungee Jumping at its best - from a hot air balloon! If the rush of free fall doesn’t thrill you, the rebound will. Go ahead, give yourself a thrill of a lifetime. You’ll be bouncing back — for more. 541-7058

Interested? Put your name on a piece of paper and put it into the box outside the Davidsonian office. We'll be drawing one name for a free jump!

Of a larger independent study, but regular readings, papers, and exams supplement the work being done outside of class. Otherwise, Ross feels, the transcript should indicate coursework, not extra-curricular activities. And that is the policy that has been adopted by the College, for better or worse. Different people see "Internships" on page 14.

This Thursday, November 21, donate the money that you would have spent on meals to Oxfam’s efforts to help people around the world to become self-sufficient. If you cannot fast, please consider donating a dollar or two to Oxfam. Proceeds from the fast will go to support Oxfam’s efforts internationally as well as local hunger relief agencies. You have nothing to lose. The hungry have everything to gain. Sign up in the Union pit.

By Leigh McKeever

Two nights ago at 8:30 pm, I was driving back from Cashions, and I counted nine female runners... all running alone. As humans, we women should have the right to walk alone, to feel safe as we enter our homes late at night, to not have to call for the Escort service, to be able to drink without running the risk of “asking for it,” to run alone at night, but reality is not this way. Reality is that women are often attacked in extremely violent ways. Davidson is not immune to this type of violence.

The following is an article written by Sandra Smith ‘91 that any woman should read before she decides to don a pair of running shoes... alone:

On March 29, 1989, I used poor judgment and went running after dark, alone. As I approached the overpass on Main Street in Cornelius (near Carolina Cones), I was assaulted. The aggressor was a male much larger than me. I screamed. As I struggled to escape his grip, he told me to shut up or he would kill me. Just as my Walkman headphone cord was tangling around us both, I saw what I thought at the time was a beam of light shining down from my Creator, and Gabriel’s horn playing my death tune. Quickly I realized that it was the headlights of an Oldsmobile, driven by a bearded Good Samaritan blowing his horn to scare the attacker away. So he did, and I jumped into the car, still screaming. If I ever forget particular facts about this experience, I will never, never forget the sound of my own voice screaming from lungs with immeasurable depths and an inexhaustible capacity for noise.

I am telling you about this incident, two years after the fact, for several reasons, none of which are to receive attention, or God forbid, any sympathy. I do so because people on this campus need to be awakened not only to the injustices of this society, and to be aware that rape, sexual harassment, and abuse take place, but we need to take responsibility for our own actions and attitudes.

Two fundamental feelings arose from my attack. The first was fear—fear for myself, my friends, and my sisters. I had a fear of shadows, of strangers walking behind me, of large trees behind which aggressors may lurk, and most of all, laying awake at night and getting stuck in a negative thought cycle. See “Safety” on page 14.

Hitchhikers And Freeloaders Take Note

By Marie Huntington

The Rides Board is finally here! The bulletin board hangs to the left of the Wilson Room, downstairs in the Union, and is covered by a huge map of the US. Any Davidson student who needs a ride or needs passengers can post their information on slips of paper on the board. There will be two different colors of paper—one for rides offered, the other for rides needed. Each slip has space for the person’s name and phone number, destination, dates, times, and any additional information (i.e.: “I will pay 1/2 gas costs”). Texas and almost every state east of the Mississippi has its own cup hook on which to hang the slips. Students are responsible for getting in touch with people offering or needing rides and for screening their own riders and drivers. See "Hitcher" on page 15.