**The Davidsonian**

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXII MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991 NUMBER 20

---

By Sean Lind

On Wednesday, March 13, Davidson hosted a Bone Marrow Drive. The Drive, organized through the Service Coordinator’s Office by the Bone Marrow Drive Committee, obtained 472 samples of blood to be typed for leukemia patients. The purpose of the Drive was not only to obtain possible donors for patients, but also to educate students and make them want to help those in need of bone marrow transplants.

“Students are a great resource,” said David Lindsay, a member of the Committee and himself the recipient of a bone marrow transplant. The drive was run by Red Cross’ National Marrow Donor Program, one of 56 programs in the country serving 36 transplant centers. The NMDP provides the donors for patients in need of bone marrow transplants. Bone marrow transplants are currently being used to treat people with leukemia, bone cancer, genetic diseases, sickle-cell anemia, and even breast cancer.

Kay Piercy, the coordinator for the National Marrow Donor Program, described the donor process: First, potential donors give two tubes of blood. This blood is examined not for blood type, but for genetic factors. Organ donors are then matched to organ recipients by their genetic, or HLA (Human Leukocyte Antigen), tissue type. Typing is very expensive. The tests to establish a donor-patient match can cost the patient several thousand dollars.

Piercy emphasized that this was only a beginning. Everyone who was typed last Wednesday will be entered into the National Registry and this list of possible donors will be made available to those in need of marrow transplants. There are close to 10,000 donors in the Carolinas Marrow Donor program. Nationally, there are close to 280,000 donors. Although this seems substantial, see "Blood” on Page 2.

---

Political Science Department Hires Two New Professors

By Tom Koonce

The Davidson Political Science department has hired two new teachers for the 1991-92 school year. Instructors Minxin Pei and Ken Menkhaus will teach courses that have never before been offered at Davidson.

Minxin Pei is a native of China. He received his Bachelor’s degree at Shanghai University. Pei moved to the U.S. over seven years ago and earned his master’s degree in Fine Arts at the University of Pittsburgh. He is currently finishing his dissertation at Harvard. Pei has a special interest to teach a course in developing democracies.

Ken Menkhaus will take over the courses that retiring Professor J. Harris Proctor has taught. He will also teach courses on African and Middle Eastern politics. The courses on the Middle East should be of special interest to students, considering recent developments in that part of the world. Menkhaus will also offer courses in political development.

Chair of the Political Science department, Professor Thomas Kazee, said that he is “really excited about what these new teachers will bring to the department next year.” Kazee also commented on the value of the personal experiences of each of these men in the courses that they will be teaching. Kazee believes that the Political Science department has identified two good teachers and scholars. Pei is coming to fill a temporary two-year position, but there is a possibility that he will stay longer than that. Menkhaus has been hired on a regular tenure track. Both teachers will begin in the fall.

The English department has also hired a new professor in order to replace a retiring faculty member. A full report on this change in the department will...be included in the next Davidsonian.

Residence Life To Expand Martin Court
By David Thompson

On Tuesday, March 12, the Residence Life Office decided to build two new apartment buildings in the Martin Court complex. This decision will have a profound impact upon the availability of housing for all students who choose to live on campus for the 1991-92 school year. The structure, known at present as the “E Building,” should be completed, along with the “D Building,” before students return to Davidson in late August. When both of these buildings are finished, the Martin Court complex will house a total of 248 students in 62 apartment suites.

Director of Residence Life Richard Terry commented Wednesday that not even 62 groups of four students applied for residence in the apartments during last year’s lottery process. The buildings will greatly resemble the structures currently housing seniors on Martin Court, but the “D” building will be equipped with washing machines and dryers, and will have a conference room in the basement. The “E” building will have elevators for use by handicapped students. Terry noted that the layout of the apartments will remain the same, as the design has proved to be more than satisfactory.

Although there is no absolute guarantee that the buildings will be ready in August, the bidding process has been extraordinarily competitive between companies with “great track records for getting their work done on time,” Terry said. Another encouraging sign is that both structures will be built by the same contracting firm, so that if there are delays, the entire work crew can concentrate their efforts towards the completion of at least one building. The contractor will have to face penalties for each day beyond the deadline that the buildings are still unfinished. Under a “liquidated damages” agreement with the college, the contractor will have to reimburse the college for any expenses incurred by delays in the completion of the buildings.

The new construction will not just affect the rising senior class, however. Due to the increased number of beds in the apartments, juniors with very low lottery numbers might have a chance to live in Martin Court. While seniors would have the first crack at obtaining residency in these buildings, space might very well be left over for some juniors. Terry also noted that the availability of housing for rising sophomores will also increase. Sophomores should not simply assume that their only chance of living up the hill rests upon signing up for a triple occupancy room. If the number of people who decide to live off campus remains approximately the same as usual, then the Residence Life Office should be able to house everyone who desires on-campus housing next year.

Also significant to the upcoming lottery process is the fact that Basement Belk will no longer be available to upperclassmen, but will be used instead as a freshman hall. Smith House might also not be available for student residency. “The structure,” said Terry, “can no longer handle 14 students.” Although no definite decisions have been made, the building will likely be renovated and converted to office space for the Institutional Advancement division of the Development Office.

The PAX structure will continue to house students next year, but is not a permanent solution to the housing problem. The house will eventually function as a headquarters for a social institution again. Terry also hopes to reconvert the triple occupancy rooms in Belk into lounges again in the coming years.

News
Women's Issues Committee Holds Forum. See Page 2.
Petropoulos Speaks On Nazi Art Exhibit. See Page 3.

INSIDE
Campus Living
Marlo Cobb Writes For Chocoholics. See Page 7

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036