= THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Davidson Arts

Strong Performances Mark Kiss Me Kate Production

By Garnett J. Smith

Weeks of hard work, endless hours of rehearsal, and incessant publicity finally paid off as the cast played their opening
night to a near-capacity crowd in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. The play within a play parallels
the lives of Fred Graham and Lilli Vanessi with their on-stage characters. Based upon Shakespeare’s Taming of the Shrew, Kate
includes a womanizer (Brad Griffin), a temperamental artist (Timisha Barnes), an easy-to-please showgirl (Allison Wright), and a love-sick gambler (Reid
French).

Throughout the play, the acting remains strong. Griffin does an outstanding job in the dual role of egocentric artist and
womanizing Italian lover. Barnes’s shrewdness is enough to make any man turn tail and run. Especially pleasing is Wright’s portrayal
of the girl who just wants to have fun. It’s fun enough watching her flit about on the stage with
her sparkling smile. Who would mind having their heart stolen by such a charming and effervescent lady? French plays the
lover well as the courting Lucentio, but he is less convincing as the jealous Bill in the backstage scenes. He
doesn’t seem pouty enough to justify the many verses of Wright’s rationalization of her strayings in “Always True To You”.

The show is stolen, however, by two buffoonish gangsters (Todd Bowman and Phil Lisi) who are reminiscent of Shakespeare’s use
of stock characters. Their weaving in and out of a Brooklyn accent was somewhat distracting, however. Other fine performances include
Scott Lenhart (Baptista), Buck Reese (Gremio), Kyle Garner (Hortensio), and Andrew Smitherman (Harrison Howell).

Of particular importance in a musical is, of course, the music. It is here that Barnes shines brightly as she
bursts through the stratosphere with a coloratura to end the first act. A wonderful surprise is found in Wright as
she coos out her songs with a smooth and pleasant tone. Griffin’s range is rather limited in that the lowest
notes are often lost while the upper notes don’t always get up there. Also, the pitch at the ends of
phrases tends to sag. Whatever technical ability Griffin lacks is made up for, however, in the personality he seems to
exude while performing. French masterfully delivers the corniest song in the play with an air of innocence and charm. The
chorus’s transformation from a group of tone-deaf individuals to a musical ensemble...

See "Kiss Me" on page 12.

Ted Richardson on Photography

Davidson Arts presents a series of articles devoted to artists at Davidson. In order to understand how and why artists
spend their time creating images, music, or dramatic performances, we have asked them. We asked these artists to comment upon
the technical aspects of their work, the “how.” To understand the “why”, we have asked the artists to discuss their
personal motivations and any other information that comes to bear on their work.

Over the past six years, I’ve been learning to converse in black and white. I was introduced to black and
white photography at Myers Park High School in Charlotte. Since then, I have kept my dream alive to become a
photojournalist. Upon graduation from high school, I received a photography scholarship to an art and design school. I decided to
attend Davidson because I felt that a liberal arts education, in the long run, would benefit me more as a
photographer than anything else. The course load at Davidson has all too often forced me to leave my camera on
the shelf and has made it difficult for me to keep making photographs. I eased my situation last semester by
taking a course in Photography and Literature and an independent study in photography. Nowadays, I carry my camera around with
me as much as possible. Otherwise, I’m content to be developing a mind behind my photography and will be patient
for the time being with my photographic eye. All in all, I am convinced that what I learn at Davidson
will translate positively into black and white.

The people I photograph bring more life to my work than I can honestly claim to bring myself. As a
photographer, I can separate one moment from the rest, but in the end, the human subject sustains the image. In
my first photography assignments, I avoided people at all costs. I photographed cars, buildings, pets, and anything that would...Not notice
me there with my camera. I slowly gathered the nerve to focus on humanity and snuck in a few long-range
glances with a telephoto lens. With time, I came closer to the people I photographed and found my camera to
be an invitation into the lives of many people I otherwise would have never met. The wide variety of people
I have encountered, mostly through summer travels, I remember through photographs. Recently, I have compiled portfolios of my trips to
Central America, Europe, and across the U.S. My portfolios express the human life unique to each region. In many ways,
my photographs illustrate my experience and the experiences of those I meet better than a journal or other verbal account
could. I’d be afraid with words of muddling things up and losing the power of these moments.

Photographers who work in black and white are often asked why they do not photograph in color. Besides not knowing
how to develop in color (and not having enough money to do so), I have my own reasons for sticking
to black and white. Our normal way of seeing the world is in color. As a result of continually seeing
this way, we have become lazy with color vision. In our everyday visual perusal of the world, we sometimes don’t
distinguish that glorious McDonald’s sign from the truly amazing scenes that surround it. Black and white photography saves us from
this “fast food” way of seeing and allows our vision to be deliberately aesthetic, not just practical.

See "Photography" on page 12. (Matt Bumstead: Whistlin' Dixie)

Oh, What a Night! Brooks, Bush, and Gill Do Nashville

It was all you could have dreamed. On Wednesday, October 2nd, the nation’s eye was on Nashville, watching with unusual
zeal and I’ll be if Nashville didn’t look pretty damned good. If you don’t believe me, ask President Bush, who
enjoyed the show from his second-row seat and brought special focus and excitement to the evening’s events. Evident in the
night’s choices were inconsistencies (to be expected), some of which displayed justice, while others showed signs of favoritism or the
influence of music row politics.

There was justice. Man alive, did you see Garth Brooks' electrifying (and yes, perhaps a little cheesy) presentation of “Shameless”?
The 29-year-old Okie won (deservedly) four CMA’s: video, single, album, and the big one—entertainer. And although he probably deserved the
trophy for male vocalist, just as one of the two of his nominated songs deserved the song trophy, the injustice
inherent in depriving him of these awards was countered by the justice that was served by giving these two awards
to Vince Gill, who also won the vocal event with Mark O’Conner. If they had to lose, all the nominees
in the building would have chosen to lose to Gill, a kind, hard-working, devoted, and immensely talented musician. Yes, there
was justice.

Those of you who watched also saw host Reba McEntire exude a warmth and sincerity in all she said and
did. McEntire, who has been country’s leading lady for years, has often seemed fake to me, plugging either her relationship
with fans or her new album with every word and every action. Even her magnificent stage show, in which she
constantly stared at the camera or reached out to the audience, was just too much to take. But since the
Spring 1991 plane crash that took the lives of her band members (who, as you can imagine, were like her
family), she has seemed more vulnerable, more feeling, and more sincere. She could barely read her cue cards following the
Judds' farewell speech because of the tears in her eyes; and having almost not made it through the gripping performance
of her new song “For My Broken Heart,” in which she could only be singing of the pain she felt
at the loss of her friends, she gasped and shrugged her shoulders as she again grew teary, as if surrendering
to her feeling of helplessness. The crowd shot that followed showed many of those who were in attendance wiping their
eyes, as the raw emotion that weighed heavily in her eyes filled with tears as she stood there. You might
see why it so disturbed me to see the emotional Tanya Tucker win female vocalist of the year over McEntire,
given the dynamite comeback year she has had.

See "Bumstead" on page 2.
