| } @ hed avidsontan SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991 NUMBER 15 VOLUME LXXXII

A short black shift -s oan Chg
Photo By Ben Hopkins
A student exhibits her disappointment with a missing skirt that has disappeared.

Missing Clothes At Laundry Presents Problem To Students
By Sean Lind

It starts in little ways: a sock here, a hand towel there, maybe a t-shirt. But although such minor inconveniences
are bound to happen due to the “dryer ate my socks” phenomenon, the recent loss of clothes in the Davidson
laundry is becoming a real problem.

There are three possible ways in which clothes can be lost: they can become misplaced due to the vast volume
of clothing the laundry processes; they can be accidentally taken by other students; or, they can be stolen by non-Davidsonians.

The first possibility is a given. The laundry processes anywhere from 15,250-18,000 lbs. of clothes per week. With such a
large load, misplacements are inevitable.

The second possibility is a little more disheartening. The laundry is under the Honor Code, but mistakes can happen. Even
so, once these mistakes are realized, students should return the mistaken items.

The third is the worst scenario. As in many other areas of Davidson’s sheltered existence, the Honor Code binds the
students, but it can have no effect on non-Davidsonians or locals.

Mrs. Frances Beaver, the laundry manager, stated that the laundry does take certain precautions to prevent theft. “Students and employees
are the only ones with access behind the counter,” said Mrs. Beaver.

I took the liberty to test the security in the laundry. Last Thursday, I had a janitor, who is approximately
35 years old and looks nothing like a Davidson student, pick up my laundry. He walked in, got my clothes,
and brought them outside to me. He was never stopped or questioned.

Each student pays $189 per semester for laundry service. The laundry is a break-even business run solely for the convenience
of students. Carleton Pritchard, Director of Auxiliary Services, admitted that the loss of clothes is a problem, and stated that
the laundry was trying to find a solution.

Students who have lost clothes in the laundry, says Pritchard, can put in a claim for these items. Once claims
are filed, the laundry investigates the loss to try and discover the problem. Then students are reimbursed, taking into account
devaluation.

Pritchard also said the laundry is planning a full-scale renovation this summer. The refurbishment will include new machines, and a
new security system.

Davidson Featured In National Review's New College Guide
By Jay Chaudhuri

Davidson was featured in the national spotlight again when it was recently included in William F. Buckley Jr.’s The National
Review College Guide as one of the 50 top liberal arts schools in the nation.

The liberal arts colleges selected by the guide emphasized good teaching, Western-oriented academic curriculums and “schools that have not supplanted
education with political indoctrination.”

Titled “Focus on the Classroom,” the editors praise Davidson for its “outstanding teaching, an honor system that is regarded as
the ‘touchstone’ of college life, rigorous academic standards, and a conservatism, both social and political, reflected in the school’s culture.”

The guide is critical of Davidson’s “Cultural Diversity Requirement,” however; it considers the courses offered in this area as legitimate
and well within the college’s liberal arts tradition.

The guide is most critical of Davidson’s involvement in Leadership South, a consortium of five Southern colleges targeted at increasing
opportunities for blacks in higher education. It also notes with disappointment Davidson’s affirmative action policy in hiring black faculty members
and its offering of a concentration in “ethnic studies.”

Vice-President for Academic Affairs Robert Williams has applauded the guide for praising the college’s teaching and honor code, but finds
its criticisms disturbing. “It is a list that is politically determined in nature and factually incorrect.”For some national colleges that
the National Review would like to see as very conservative. Although their emphasis on teaching and the honor code are
applaudable, we regret the National Review’s perspective that women on faculty and diversity requirements are signs of decline for Davidson.
We view these steps as progressive.”

Associate professor of political science and chairperson of the Gender Studies program Mary Thornberry shares William’s sentiment. “I agree with
them about what they liked at Davidson. However, I am upset at the notion that the recruiting of African-American faculty
members lessens our standards. It is quite an insult to the faculty we have hired; they are a great addition.”

Assistant professor of classical studies and chairperson of the advisory committee on racial/ethnic minority concern Michael Toumazou has expressed similar
concern with the guide’s criticisms on minority recruiting. “The guide assumes that if you hire minorities you have lowered standards.
This is a false assumption as far as I am concerned. Our reputation is getting better while we diversify our
faculty. Obviously, this has not affected our image of improving academically.”

Reacting to the regrets expressed by Williams and other faculty members, Brad Miner, editor of the guide, said, “I am
not surprised. I don’t mind it a bit that he (Williams) is spouting off because I think it will alert
people that there is something good in our book. Anytime academics do start to spout off like that I think
it is a signal to sensible people."

"There is plenty of diversity in the traditional curriculum. I think what we see in many of these requirements are
a political intent."

Research for the guide was undertaken, according to Miner, by writing away for materials from each school. Although interviews were
conducted on campus by telephone, The National Review plans to expand the methodology by including campus visits.

More on The Guide
Excerpts. Read what National Review has written about Davidson. Page 4.
Debate. Should Davidson reject the guide's standards. Page 6.

Campaign For Davidson Slightly Over Halfway Mark
By Gary Wheeler

The Campaign for Davidson is slightly over the halfway mark of its $150 million target. “The college has assiduously and
generously made a commitment to the Campaign,” said Jamie May, executive director of development.

The massive fundraising effort is intended, in part, to bring Davidson’s endowment closer to that of other well-respected liberal arts
schools. “Compared to most of those schools,” May said, “Davidson is grossly undercapitalized.” By increasing Davidson’s endowment through fundraising, some
pressure can be taken off of tuition and fees as a source of capital.

The campaign, which was publicly announced in November of 1989, actually began much earlier. May explained that major fundraising campaigns
are not publicly announced until a substantial amount of money has already been raised. May said that approximately $60 million
had been raised before the announcement of the campaign.

While the campaign is going well, there is not a lack of ideas on how the money can be spent.
The trustees, administration, and faculty have been busy prioritizing the college’s needs, which include increased financial aid, money for renovations,
and new facilities.

May projects that the $150-million goal will be reached by June of 1995. That means between $17 and $19 million
in commitments will have to be made each year. Meeting these goals will be particularly challenging considering the downturn in
the economy and the fact that business philanthropy is more competitive than ever. “Everybody is asking,” May said, “and donors
have to decide where they will give.”

INSIDE
News
Amy Edmunds '80 discusses business. Page 2

Opinions
Defining feminism from a personal view. Page 7.

Campus Living
The Davidsonian receives lots of letters. Page 12.

JSA: Classics Group. Page 4.

The Charlotte Troll visits Blowout. Page 10.

First Class Mail
Davidson, N.C. 28036
