_» THEDAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991 13

Kenya Continued from Page 10

means mosquito, but mbo means testicle.” Harrington once ate a termite. Riding in a Land Rover was an experience in
itself, as one rode standing up (the Rover had an open back), squashed between about 10 other students, all looking
for wildlife through binoculars. The Rover driver was on the lookout for aardvark holes in the road, which aardvarks make
at night. “I loved riding around in the Rover,” said Harrington. Hastings rated trips in the Rovers to game reserves
as a high point in the semester. He said that the roads were horrible and full of potholes; pieces of
ceiling from the 20-year-old Rovers fell on his lap; and sitting was an exercise in soreness. But it was worth
the discomfort because all of their destinations were beautiful. “Going on safari and having it rain every time and not
having a raincoat” was a worst experience for Payne. Harrington, Hastings, and Payne all agreed that their unhappiest experience collectively
and as individuals was when one student had to be sent home. The best thing Hastings learned was “how to
deal with 21 other people day in and day out.” He described the experience as “much more intense than college...we
were so close.”

Harrington and Hastings found paradise at Diani Beach, while Payne journeyed to Tiwi Beach. Diani Beach was a natural paradise,
as Harrington describes, “Wide, white beaches...calm, turquoise, warm water...blooming bushes around our patio...palm trees.” However, the house came with a
cook, electricity, and hot running water - a taste of real luxury. When asked if they would return to Kenya
tomorrow, Harrington responded, “Definitely!,” and Hastings gave an enthusiastic, “Yes!”. Payne said she would like to go back eventually, but
not immediately. The author was unable to reach LeAnn Simmons for contribution to this article.

Chili
2 bottles Heineken beer
1 lb sausage
1 lb beef
1 onion
1 tablespoon paprika
2 teaspoons red pepper
2 teaspoons black pepper
5 cloves pressed garlic
2 teaspoons Fox Hollow herbs

Brown sausage slightly. Add beef. When browned, add onion. Add everything. Add first bottle of beer first three hours, slow
heat, and then add the second bottle of beer. Take one down, pass it around, 97 bottles of beer on
the wall.

The Davidsonian Knows Great Chili Comes from NBA 201. Call and find out? x6627

Draft Continued from Page 10

drawing, based on birth, to determine who goes first. A man is in the first priority for a possible draft
during the calendar year of his 20th birthday. The next year he drops into the second priority category. The 26th
birthday is the age which is generally over liability for the draft. Registrants receiving induction orders will be ordered to
report to a Military Processing station for examination and possible immediate induction, 10 days afterwards. The registrant can file a
claim for postponement, deferment, or exemption from military service. Once a registrant files a claim, he is delayed induction until
his claim has been filed.

What postponements, exemptions, and deferments will delay or inhibit you from the war? Under emergency mobilization procedures, all registrants are
considered to be classified “available for service.” Because there is no draft now, Selective Service does not classify registrants at
this time. That is why pacifists have not been able to register as conscientious objectors. If a draft is activated,
a registrant is delayed if he files a claim for postponement, deferment, or exemption. A registrant is entitled to a
postponement if he is a student or he has an emergency beyond his control, such as serious illness or a
death in his immediate family.

There are several exemptions from the draft. Ministers may be exempted from service. Ministerial students are deferred from service until
they complete their studies. Surviving sons or brothers in a family where the parent or sibling died as a result
of U.S. military service, or is in a captured or missing in action status, are exempt from service in peacetime.
Hardship deferments are available for men whose induction would result in hardship to persons who depend upon them for support.

Now we come to conscientious objection. In order to qualify for classification as a conscientious objector, a young man must
be conscientiously opposed to participation in all wars, not a selective objection to a particular war. Beliefs must be religious,
moral, or ethical in nature, as opposed to beliefs based solely on politics, expediency, or self-interest. The claim must include
a statement of his beliefs, how he arrivedHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

at them, and the influence they have on how he lives his life, setting forth the depth and sincerity of
his convictions. He may include letters from persons who know him well and can attest to his beliefs. Conscientious objection
is not as easy as one may think. Conscientious objection also does not relieve you of your obligation to serve.
There are two types of service which may be performed, depending upon the individual’s specific beliefs. A person who is
opposed to any form of military service is required to perform a period of civilian service. This is equal to
the length of time inductees serve in the military in a job which contributes to the national health, safety, or
interest, as determined by the Director of Selective Service. Alternative service work for conscientious objectors can be anything from conservation,
caring for the very young and the very old, educational projects, and health care. The person whose beliefs allow him
to serve in the Armed Forces in a noncombatant capacity becomes a member of the Armed Forces and would be
assigned to noncombatant duties and would not receive any training in the use of weapons.

Now you may be asking, “What can I do in order to dissolve any ideas for the reactivation of a
draft?” In fact, there are several things each individual can do. First, write your Congressmen and voice your opinion on
the draft to them. More importantly, support our soldiers in the Middle East right now! Strong support from home translates
into high morale within the ranks of our military. No one wants a draft, and the average civilian does not
need to be jerked from the sanity of daily life here in America to the insane situation of war.

The high-tech intrigue of the Gulf war has easily superseded the desperate fact that there is a war going on
at home. Drugs, crime, S&L bailout, insurance, education, illiteracy, AIDS. You name it, we got it. We might remember the
advice to take the plank out of our own eyes before complaining about dust in someone else’s. It seems that
we are fascinated by military hardware and the precision with which they deal with problems. For domestic issues, however, there
are no “definable objectives,” no line in the sand, no SCUD’s to nail. It seems, therefore, that we need to
regain our domestic vision. We must define targets. Bush has inspired us to participate in a new world order. Somehow
that world order must invigorate us on the national, state, and local level.

Perhaps we owe one year between high school and college to serve our country. It does not necessarily need to
be military. Envision working for the U.S. Corps of Engineers, the Forest Service, a National Teaching service, or some new
Environment Corps. Write your congressman. Or the Davidsonian. To end with, last A1A’s and march week’s through the sand. Our
steel, carbon compounds, and explosives come from elements of my close think and argue, listen and learn. We are responsible
to uphold the ideals at home which we willingly kill and die for abroad. Ignoring, downplaying, or back-burnering the delicate
relationship between our industry, economy, and nation with our land is virtually “naked aggression” against the environment. The peace and
prosperity afforded by this great nation demands that we live at home as we demand other nations to live abroad.
Our place in this new world order is not only as policemen, but must be as a leader in domestic
issues.

Personally, I march in Washington as many other Davidson students have done, yet I entirely respect and welcome opinions different
from my own. Our troops are dying for this right. I am puzzled by the response against her effort to
stand up for what she believes in and somewhat insulted by those who insensitively pigeon-hole things from “Birkenstocks” to “Dangerously
Liberal.” The same goes for “Conservatives” or “Yuppies,” however. You can’t escape appearances. Yet simple minds rely excessively upon labels
to deal with complicated issues.

I am a peace-loving, oft Birkenstock-clad supporter of this war. My opinion about how to best deal with the war
is to continue to think and argue, listen and learn. Then act. While I offer the environment as a top
priority, other domestic issues call for attention. We cannot let our success at warfare delude us. We are “Number One”
in many ways and I am prouder of being from this country than I have been in a while. But
with this power comes responsibility. I have offered environmental suggestions by which you can participate in the new world order.
Only you know yourself well enough to take it further. There is an “Environmental Conference” at Davidson March 3-7. Please
participate.

As an aside, I agree with columnist William Buckley who calls for mandatory national service. Quote of the Week: "A
guy that is not cheesy is like a dog not lifting its leg." - James Mason '91 as told in
the E.H. Little Library.
