16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991 THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Karen Hester, Davidson Alumna, Speaks Out About Sexuality

By Sara Carlson

Karen Hester, promotion director for Redwood Cultural Work, a non-profit, multi-cultural arts organization in Oakland, CA, will be speaking at
Davidson on Friday, April 19 in the Union.

Davidsonian: Could you tell us about your activities planned for Alumni Weekend?

Hester: Anne Stanback, Nancy Warren, and I are going to lead a forum on Friday at four o’clock about the
lesbian and gay movement in the nineties. Each one of us is going to speak for five or ten minutes
about our own experiences being lesbians and about the lesbian and gay movement. Then we’re going to open for questions
and answers and hopefully have a lively discussion.

Davidsonian: What do you wish to accomplish by coming back to speak at Davidson?

Hester: We want to have a very visible out presence as lesbians, and to say that being a lesbian can
be a really powerful and wonderful thing in the world. One of my main purposes is to try to foster
more communication and more discussion about gays and lesbians. There are gays and lesbians on the Davidson campus, but because
it’s so homophobic there, people don’t even have a support system. There are no speakers or any kind of gay
and lesbian cultural movements. Because of that, the students, faculty, staff, and whole campus community are not being enriched by
the lives of gays and lesbians free to be out and talk about who they are. On a societal level,
that is creating invisibility which makes it very difficult to be a gay or lesbian student on campus at Davidson
right now. The few students I’ve spoken to feel very isolated, and I think that is very unhealthy. In a
university setting, people should be able to have the freedom to explore all parts of themselves, including their sexuality. Unfortunately,
the atmosphere at Davidson is very stifling for people. We hope to start the dialogue going and to encourage students
to organize themselves into coming out of the closet. We also hope to encourage faculty and staff to come out
of the closet and be role models for other gays and lesbians. I understand that that can be a really
courageous act right now at Davidson, but people need to be coming out and organizing. The slogans right now that
ACT-UP has used that “Silence = Death” and “Action = Life” I think are very true in a lot of
ways. With the increasing violence against gays and lesbians nationwide, literally, silence does equal death. In a broader context, action
equals life; just by finding out who you are and acting on that you live a more rich life. That
has to do with first of all coming out to one’s self and then to one’s community.

Davidsonian: What was it like to be a lesbian at Davidson ten years ago?

Hester: I didn’t know I was a lesbian when I was at Davidson. Nancy did and she transferred. That’s what
life was like. It was so stifling that she ended up transferring her junior year. Neither Anne nor I knew
that we were lesbians when we were at Davidson. I don’t remember any kind of discussion, the words “gay” or
“lesbian” coming up in the four years of classes I took at Davidson. In Humanities or any kind of historical
surveys, it was never mentioned that as many as ten million witches were killed during the middle ages, and that
a lot of those women were lesbians. There was a lot of invisibility going on. I look back now and
realize that, of course, some of the people I knew were gay or lesbian. Life for them was totally closeted;
they had no safe space to come out. That doesn’t seem to have changed at all.

Davidsonian: What suggestions do you have for coping with living in a closeted community?

Hester: The main thing of course is to organize. That is the only way change will come about. People need
to be calling meetings. Hopefully, we’ll help encourage those kinds of meetings to take place. Forming a gay and lesbian
student union on campus is not enough. It needs to have faculty and staff support. With that support, people will
have an opportunity to explore both the joys and the fears of being gay or lesbian. Once people get organized
and find out who each other are, they can begin education on campus. It’s important to form panels, go into
classrooms. For instance, in any class on sexuality or psychology, professors should be requesting panels on what it is like
to be gay or lesbian. Organize a gay and lesbian and bisexual week at Davidson, bring speakers in both from
the community and nationally. Show films, present the culture. We have a very, very rich culture, no question about that.
Also, it’s important for students to form a support “rap” group. I think this has happened at Davidson before in
the Counseling Center. It’s really important to be able to explore intimately what it means to be an oppressed minority
in this country and to deal with the whole coming out process. For a lot of people in college, coming
out is going to be one of the critical issues. Coming out to one’s self, to one’s friends, to one’s
family. Those are amazing acts of courage people have to take every day in their lives. Coming out is never
easy, and it doesn’t necessarily get easier. Those kinds of things are what students should be doing, could be doing,
if they were even aware of the possibilities. I would think there is some kind of sensitivity training both for
hall counselors and faculty and staff on lots of issues including racism.and sexism. I would hope that that would happen
for homophobia also. We need to start training the people who are in positions of authority and responsibility to be
sensitive to gay and lesbian issues, to be aware of them, and to be supportive. A lot of that is
just combating ignorance. The only way that can happen is for gay and lesbian people to organize. It won’t happen
from the administration on down; it’s got to happen from the bottom up.

Davidsonian: There has been a lot of controversy lately about “outing,” publicizing someone’s sexual orientation against his/her will. If you
could offer your opinions on it.

Hester: There has been a lot of misinformation, too. It’s a very controversial topic in the gay and lesbian community.
I don’t think it’s helpful to out somebody when they don’t want to be outed. People should be allowed to
find their own identity and go through a coming out process. I do think it’s appropriate to out someone who
is doing major damage to the lives of gays and lesbians. This has come up more for people who are
in positions of power in politics that are voting against, for instance, domestic partners legislation, or some kind of legislation
that would benefit gays and lesbians, and yet they are a gay or lesbian themselves. So it’s their own internalized
homophobia that’s letting them contribute to the oppression of their own kind. And in that instance, I personally have no
problem with outing. I think that those are the kinds of places where we need to expose the hypocrisy.

Davidsonian: Are there issues you want to address in this interview before you come out to Davidson and are talking
to the students?

Hester: I would want to say, don’t die wondering. I don’t think that lesbianism can be relegated to who you’re
sleeping with, what you’re doing in the bedroom. I think that it’s much more of a pervasive emotion and feeling.
If women have been your major support, when you think about with whom have you felt most alive, if that’s
with women, then I would say you’re probably a lesbian, whether you’re acting on it or not. I’m going to
talk at the forum about the idea of compulsory heterosexuality that we all grew up with, which starts very early
on in our families and in society. It says that when you grow up, if you’re a good girl, you’re
going to fall in love with and marry some man and live happily ever after. People need to understand and
realize their choices. I know for me growing up, the idea of being a lesbian was not even anything I
considered. I’m angry about that. I had to do a lot of struggling and experiencing before I realized that I
was a lesbian. I cut off a certain part of my life, cut off a part of my feelings and
emotions that I think are really important parts of who I am. What I hope is that we’ll be talking
to people as they’re searching to find themselves, and that when they see the three of us, lesbians who are
happily lesbians (although we’re continually struggling against the homophobia that is in society), that they will say, “yeah, I can
see myself there, I can explore who I am and I have the support, in myself and in friends, to
do that.”

Davidsonian: Are there any kinds of literature or other resources that people can turn to?

Hester: We will be providing a booklist that’s put out by Giovanni’s Room, a large gay and lesbian bookstore in
Philadelphia. It’s a mail-order list. There are countless materials that are incredible resources. Also, we’re going to be providing a
women’s music list from Ladyslipper, which is based in Durham, NC. I know that for a lot of lesbians who
came out when I did, and also those who came out earlier in the seventies or eighties, music was one
of the main ways to explore lesbianism and to find out about the women’s music movement. Culture has played a
really important role in creating the gay and lesbian community. It’s really important for people to check out the literature,
as a way to reach out to the whole international gay and lesbian movement that is certainly hard to know
about at Davidson.

Davidsonian: Do you have any comments directed towards the heterosexual students here, in terms of how they can best be
good friends and good support?

Hester: The main thing is education and being open, understanding that one out of ten friends is gay or lesbian.
They need to be supportive of that. We all have a lot of internalized homophobia and need to really examine
what that’s about. If somebody tells a homophobic joke in your company, as a straight person, you need to say,
“that’s not acceptable, that’s homophobic.” In the same way that whites can be supportive of people of color and when
a racist joke is told, just say “that doesn’t work, it’s not funny, it’s hurtful.” That’s really the way to
be supportive, just to be open and to educate oneself.

Davidsonian: Is there anything else that you need to say?

Hester: I really appreciate the fact that there are people on campus who have been supportive of us coming in
and giving a talk. We first started talking about coming back for our reunion and having some kind of forum
and coming out because we felt like it was important for people to know who we are and not to
come back with any part of ourselves concealed. I had this worst nightmare that we were going to...

The Davidsonian Staff hopes you all have a great summer.
