THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

Letters (con't)

Ingram Continued from Page 5

play the game”! Finally, that if Jerry Tarkanian can start his seniors in their last home game, then why can’t Bob McKillop? All of this with a lead-in referring to removing anatomy parts from various orifices. Some people speak of reaching into the depths of the soul and finding whatever it takes to rise to occasions, etc., and they do it with an authority which confirms the wisdom of the ages. Perhaps it is time for certain individuals to consider removing anatomy parts from clouds and trying to get a picture of the real world.

I am not going to go into a discussion of X’s and O’s and what kinds of decisions or mistakes dictate whether a game is won or lost. There isn’t time or space. I will, however, address the issue of Coach McKillop’s alleged disregard for the members of the Davidson basketball team. The concern that Coach McKillop has shown and continues to display (even though it may not be public knowledge) goes far beyond winning or losing basketball games. Yes, at Davidson, the word student-athlete still does have meaning, and Coach McKillop does everything in his power to positively affect the lives of his players both on and off the court, in season and during vacation periods. This is done for all squad members, regardless who recruited them.

The Davidson team practices a concept in which, 99 out of 100 times, a person gets what he deserves. If that were true in all areas of our society, a great many things would be different. The senior game is one game out of a season. A season which for all intent and purpose begins in September. A season in which the players put in countless hours of hard work. ALL THE PLAYERS. Not just the seniors! They, for the lack of a better word, reward for performing all of your required tasks better than other members of the team is the privilege of starting a game, playing that game as hard as you can, and maybe even winning it. It would certainly be nice to say, “who cares, it’s senior night, we'll start all the seniors!” Isn’t it just possible that that would be unfair to those other players who have worked so hard for that opportunity?

There is a great deal of evaluating and soul-searching which goes into deciding whom to recruit, who plays which positions, who starts, and who plays for how long. Someone is always going to get hurt. It’s no fun sitting behind a senior, simply because he is a senior. Sometimes you do what you have to do until you can do what you want to do.

Ray Ingram
Assistant Basketball Coach

PS. Senior Night University of Nevada Las Vegas vs. Cal Irvine Final Score: UNLV 116, Cal Irvine 86. Four of the six starters were already starters, two of them, Larry Johnson and Stacey Augmon, are consensus All-American candidates. UNLV is 25-0 overall, and 16-0 in the conference. Irvine is 9-19 overall and 4-12 in the conference. I’d say the Davidson:UNLV / McKillop:Tarkanian comparison is a valid one!

Howe Questions Ms. Davidson

Dear Editor:

I received my copy of the February 4 issue of The Davidsonian today, and I became irate after reading the letter from Ms. Liz Davidson in the Opinions section of that paper. I wish that I could say that I am sorry that Ms. Davidson is “tired of the rampant feminism on [the Davidson] campus.” However, I am not sorry at all. What avenue would Ms. Davidson suggest that Sara Carlson and other Davidson feminists pursue when they wish to air their grievances, I wonder? The Davidsonian is a forum for all Davidson students to utilize, regardless of their personal viewpoints. It’s traditionally referred to as the First Amendment. Ms. Davidson has exercised her right to the freedom of the press; Ms. Carlson and others are entitled to do the same.

My second problem with Ms. Davidson’s letter is that she appears to minimize the significance of sexual discrimination. Contrary to her belief, it is not a common occurrence for women to “cry ‘sex discrimination’ when they don’t achieve what they want to achieve.” A woman who accuses a male employer or business associate of discrimination subjects herself to intense personal scrutiny and often to a stressful legal battle. The decision to come forward with a charge of sexual discrimination is not one that a woman is apt to take lightly.

To my knowledge, no one who has written to the editors of this paper has claimed that men are responsible “for all women’s misfortunes.” Not even the most radical Davidson feminists have gone that far. However, I do not think that any open-minded student at Davidson can assert with conviction that men do not continue to discriminate against women, both in the workplace and elsewhere. Furthermore, it is NOT “bitchy and irrational” to draw attention to these injustices where they exist. Indeed, to even make such a statement is appalling and insulting.

I am not a feminist myself, but I am tolerant of those who wish to espouse feminist principles and to express their opinions. Perhaps Ms. Davidson should make an attempt to do the same.

Sincerely,
Elizabeth Howe, ‘92

Depth, Relevance! The Moral Implications of Ants

You know those anecdotes preachers tell to kick off sermons? Some story from real life catches their attention and, wouldn’tHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

You know, it extrapolates nicely into the divine. One of my favorites involves a cockroach: “People, have you ever noticed a cockroach dead on the floor? It’s lying there on its back, joints stiffened and bereft of spirit when suddenly it rises up on a thousand tiny legs and marches towards the door. 

“You never even saw the little ant scouts coming, one by one, then by twos and tens until hundreds of the efficient creatures crouched beneath the bulk of the gigantic monster and heaved as one. 

“In the presence of that roach, people, any one individual of those ants appeared as one of us, you or me, before a battleship. But they worked together, people, and got to down that sucker’s guts like a Slurpie because no one ant ran off with a leg all to himself.”

The moral, like many morals, is teamwork and Biblical citations follow. Coincidentally enough, something similar happened to me in the library recently. While I napped in one of the carrels next to the railing which overlooks the first floor, the growing E.H. Little ant population must have developed a hankering for fine literature. As I awoke from uneasy dreams, I found Kafka’s Metamorphosis transformed on my desk into a gigantic insect. It tottered towards me and I almost fled before recognizing that it was only ants. I think they just couldn’t find anything better in the library to hoist but, to ensure that language would never fall into the hands of brute beasts, I played Godzilla and beat the heroic troupe into a segmented goop smear.

Frequent occupants of the aforementioned carrels know that, in certain areas of the library, the ants are reproducing like, well, ants. I planned to get peeved about this petty detail in my column. Like the preacher, however, I found myself growing fond of the little guys. They can teach us so much. Imagine what we students could do to the library if we linked hands, legs, and souls in spontaneous transmogrification and became one functional organism dedicated to hoisting stuff. We could move not just books but shelves of books. Copy machines would be cake and the stairway wouldn’t stand a chance. Just imagine, the entire 900’s section airborne at once. Well, I imagined it, and it’s not as great as you'd think. Ants might enjoy that sort of stuff, but people need more worthwhile pastimes.

As humans, we’d want a goal, which wouldn’t be difficult to find. We could each one of us take in hand an instrument of encouragement: a megaphone, a well-thought-out essay, brass knuckles, or aged tomatoes. We, or the creature that we’d become, could scurry on 2800 legs down to Baker and hang out with the round-ball gurus. Perchance they’d be interested to know that starting seniors on senior night might not imply a threat to their authority. Maybe it’s just a nice thing to do. Just maybe an underclassman student-athlete will get over the emotional trauma of sitting his talented butt on the bench for 3 minutes while the other students in the stands have a good scream. I know this poses a dangerous threat to team chemistry and probably blows our chances in the NCAA's. But you know, we at the Davidsonian just hate to see wasted a golden opportunity for the expression of hearty, wholesome, and old-fashioned collegiate pep.

Students Should Take Notice of the Environment

This week at Davidson the Dean Rusk Program will sponsor yet another timely conference on pressing international issues. The topic of this year’s conference “Towards a Healthy Global Environment” is timely indeed. In the wake of an environmentally disastrous war in the Persian Gulf, we are once again reminded that protection of the environment is a common duty for all the world’s citizens. It is a responsibility of all the world’s nations as well.

Noticeably, the Bush administration has not been a global leader in this arena. Adopting the basic Reagan era environmental policies of business-as-usual and business-first, America continues to sell its future generations short in pursuit of short-term economic payoffs. To date, most American initiatives have been half-measures and offered reluctantly. The President’s latest energy “initiatives” leave one either laughing or crying. And international environmental efforts have received greater obstruction than leadership from the United States. How depressing that the world’s greatest economic and political power should neglect actions of self-interest common with the entire world in order to secure exclusive selfish interests.

The United States should seize the initiative, muster its political and economic strength, and lead the way in pushing for stronger domestic and global environmental legislation. President Bush should earnestly seek to fulfill his pledge to be the environmental President. Otherwise, his words, like the toxic waste leaking into America’s soil, will only poison the credibility of his high office which has made so many previous empty promises to clean up our world. So let us read the President’s lips. And let us hold him to his word. If we do not remain concerned about the deteriorating quality of the environment, then we will have succumbed to the myth that the environment, despite human abuse, will take care of itself.

Tonight Sen. Wyche Fowler of Georgia will deliver the opening address for Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program Conference. A graduate of Davidson, Senator Fowler reminds us that this college and its students have a responsibility to think globally and act locally.