THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Caveats For the New World Order

By Michael Moriarty

How come I feel Billy Joel should sing the anthem for this New World Order? Ready and hit it: Communism’s dying/ Iraq’s frying// George Bush in ’92/ Capitalism through and through (chorus: We didn’t start the fire/ the fire’s been burnin’ since the world’s been turnin’). No need to subject you any longer to my attempt at musical composition, but you get the point.

At the risk of bursting the euphoria over the state of the world now that the Soviet Union is no longer the “evil empire” and most countries seem convinced of the intrinsic beauty and wonder of American-style capitalism, the world should be reminded that the U.S. has not gotten all the answers correct. Now that capitalism is the supposed victor, we must not forget the problems with this economic/social system nor the things that non-capitalist systems have gotten right.

If America’s experience is any indication, a world paying homage to the God of free enterprise and the Invisible Hand will have a large and entrenched underclass. So what, you ask? Well, America can easily ignore the problem because the poor and less privileged have no significant power in today’s society. What happens in the Soviet Union, however, when you have a prosperous, healthy, and content middle-class/elite and a massive impoverished underclass that, although lacking institutional power, wields power by numbers? The risk of civil strife in many developing capitalist countries runs very high.

East Germany might now, understandably, question its move to the West. Unemployment runs rampant and the social costs of conversions are enormous. By no means am I saying that the whole world should embrace socialism. Quite the contrary. What I am saying is that unabashed capitalism’s radical individualism needs to be tempered with at least some concern for society at large.

There are other reasons why capitalism must have a broader outlook than the self. This economic system depends on consumption: on buying, consuming, discarding, and buying anew. Keynes labelled the cause of the Great Depression as insufficient consumer demand. That is, people were not buying and consuming enough. This is fine when the materials to produce consumer products are plentiful. What happens, however, when resources run scarce, as now seems to be the case? Oil and natural gas reserves will be depleted by early in the 21st century. We, as a world society, are rapidly leveling forests, mountainsides, tropical regions, etc. in the name of economic advancement. At some point, the earth will simply not have any more resources to give us. Then what?

I am not a pessimist, but I do feel that many questions and issues still need to be raised and addressed as the world plunges head-first into the sea of capitalism. Maybe I am wrong. Maybe the Invisible Hand will rush in and save the day. I do not want to take that risk, though. The stakes are just too high.

Nelson Neale, '92

Sarah Beth Grant, '94

A number of Davidson's current instructors are visiting assistant professors. The Davidsonian asked students their opinions on this issue.

Billy Smith, '93

I think it has a positive effect on education. If these professors bring new, fresh approaches to their respective fields, the student is exposed to a broader range of ideas.

Davidson is overcoming its reputation as a regional college, but slowly. Visiting professors—with their varying backgrounds, educations, and academic systems through which they’ve worked—are crucial to broadening the college’s outlook and fostering an open intellectual community.

As long as the visiting faculty members are well screened, I would think that they would be a benefit to the College. New ideas are great for an academic community. I only hope that these visitors can make a quick adjustment for their short stay.

Laura Cunningham, '93

Visiting professors have a hard time fitting in at Davidson. They are usually unfamiliar with the academic stipulations of the honor code, including self-scheduled exams and take-home tests. Because they are only temporary members in their departments, the visiting professors cannot establish the lasting rapport characteristic of student-faculty relationships.

Robert Coggins, '92

Davidson’s ability to bring in quality visiting professors leads to a positive impact on our education. We are lucky to have various experts—with varying perspectives—willing to share their knowledge with us. The fact that Davidson can attract these individuals is a positive aspect which also deserves recognition.

"Call Peter Fisher"