gy OP pee ae bacaale ae Che Dabidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991 NUMBER 14

College Community Moves to Ease Campus Tensions
By Tom Price

In recent weeks members of the faculty, administration, and student body have worked to find ways to alleviate the tension that has arisen on campus this semester. The Student Affairs Staff, which consists of Chuck Hasty, College Chaplain; Richard Terry, Director of Residence Life; John Eaves, Assistant Dean of Students; Ruth Pittard, Union Program Advisor; and Brenda Tapia, Assistant Chaplain organized two forums open to the community. Richard Terry said that the forums were scheduled to allow students to vent some of their frustrations and weren’t necessarily designed to find solutions, but to let the community become aware of the problems on campus. Richard Terry said that the administration “didn’t want to pretend that from a distance we could understand everything perfectly.” The first forum was attended by approximately 50 people, many of whom were women and minority students. The second forum attracted about 150-200 people and resulted in numerous ideas for the future. From now on these discussions will probably be held in smaller groups, but Terry says, “We still feel like it’s our job to continue to propel these solutions.” Terry also said “Solidarity

CCRL Approves Resolution to Establish Historically Black Fraternity
By Tom Price

On Thursday the Committee on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) unanimously approved a resolution for the establishment of a historically black fraternity. The resolution formally recommends the establishment of the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity to President Kuykendall. The group who is working for the new fraternity has a list of twenty male students who would join the new house. Linsey Mills, one of the students who has organized the effort, said the fraternity would provide a “social outlet and a service organization for African-American males and other students who can identify with African-

Student Organizes Vigil For Croatia
By Kevin Miller

Kresimir Klenovic, '95, organized and led a Vigil for Peace in Croatia in front of Chambers Building on Friday. Klenovic, who lives in a village just a few miles from the Croatian capital of Zagreb, held the vigil with about fifty other Davidson students for about twenty minutes in an effort to show his concern about the fighting in his homeland. “The goal is to express concern and make people aware of what’s going on,” he said. “I feel I should help my country as much as I can while I’m here, and this is what I can do.” The civil war between the Yugoslavian republics of Serbia and Croatia began in late June, and since that time, some 6,000 people have died. The conflict stems from Croatia’s recent declaration of independence from Yugoslavia and from Serbia’s goal to recreate the medieval “Greater Serbia” (a geographical region that once included parts of modern Croatia). Serbia’s large, well-equipped army holds the edge over Croatia’s lightly armed militia forces, but the growing number of casualties are hurting both sides. Klenovic said he would like to see a greater diplomatic effort to

Fundraising Campaign Begun For Martin Professorship
By Kevin Miller

The Davidson administration recently announced the beginning of a new fundraising campaign in honor of the college’s most famous chemistry professor, current North Carolina Governor James G. Martin. The campaign, The James G. Martin Fund for Science Education, will raise $1 million for the new James G. Martin Professorship in Chemistry and will also raise additional money for the creation of a science enrichment fund for chemistry, biology, and physics. Davidson President John W. Kuykendall said, “The James G. Martin Fund will fulfill two vital purposes. It will help us keep pace with the advance of knowledge and technology to prepare our students for science careers, and it will honor a most distinguished public servant and Davidson alumnus.” Martin, Class of '57, upon receipt of his Ph.D. from Princeton University came back to Davidson to teach from 1960-1972. During his years at Davidson he began to reach into the world of politics after he ran for a seat on the Mecklenburg County Commission and won in 1966. Eventually, after serving in county politics for many years, Martin had to sacri-Week is the next focus” and that there has also been talk of a “lunch and dinner series,” where students, staff, and faculty could meet over a meal to talk about campus issues. On November 24, a student-led forum was held in Hodson Hall. Senior Linsey Mills organized the discussion which was sponsored by the SGA, the Solidarity Committee, the Committee on Minority Affairs, and SERCH. Mills said that the forum was successful in that it “opened dialogue” and “informed people about what has been going on.”

The faculty passed a resolution this past week echoing their concern for civility on campus. The proposal was submitted by Professor William Mahony of the Religion Department and was approved unanimously. Before the meeting, the faculty was addressed by President Kuykendall on the issue of campus tension. Kuykendall expressed his dismay at the recent incidents on campus but stressed the need to focus on the positive. “For many of us,” Kuykendall said, “the current mood on campus is particularly troubling against the backdrop of a Statement of Purpose and a generally accepted mission for this College which intends a far nobler life together than these episodes and sentiments seem to express.” He went on to say, however, “The point to focus on just now, it seems to me, is that we mean to do better and to be better; and we shall.” Kuykendall also praised “student leadership in general” in its effort to work against tensions.

The group is hoping to have the fraternity established in time for self-selection in early January. The fraternity would not serve as an eating house but would use the existing Black Student Coalition house as a meeting place. It is not intended to solve the conflict since, “it’s not the governments that suffer, it’s the people. The European community is working hard, but they’re not getting a whole lot of understanding from either side, so more diplomatic pressure is needed.” The Croatians are especially hurting. With the implementation of Western economic sanctions, depleting store shelves are hitting the people hard. Also, Klenovic said, the civilians are in imminent danger of air raids. His home village was lightly bombed twice by Serbian aircraft.

Economics Professor Charles Ratliff to Retire
By Tom Koonce

“Dr. Ratliff symbolizes the essence of what a Davidson professor ought to be: scholarly, compassionate, entertaining, and concerned about students; a person who has high standards for students and yet does not let those high standards get in the way of his love for them as people,” said Dean of Students Will Terry.

At the end of this month, Charles E. Ratliff, Jr., the William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of Economics, will retire from his active teaching at Davidson College. For a man who has taught here for almost forty-five years, his retirement is, in his words, “traumatic.”

In 1947, Ratliff graduated from Davidson and was asked by the college to teach accounting and introductory economics that following fall. As his love for teaching developed, Ratliff went to Duke University graduate school to earn the credentials for teaching academics at the college level. He attended Duke between 1949-1951 and 1953-1954 and received his Ph.D. in 1955. Besides absences for graduate school, regular sabbaticals, and other commitments, Ratliff has been a constant presence at Davidson.

INSIDE
NEWS: Students disciplined after hayride incident. See page 2.
Student Health Center moves across campus. See page 2.
OPINIONS: Candelario, Foxx, Kuykendall, Lilly, and Stockdale each discuss campus hostility. See pages 3-7.
Dangerous review. See page 9.
DAVIDSON ARTS: Birds of prey in Dana? See page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036