THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991 13

Sports

Men's Soccer Ties UNC, Tops Lions; Ukrop Lost for Season

By Bruce Balestier

In a piece of catastrophic bad news for the Davidson soccer team, senior striker Rob Ukrop sustained a broken tibia in Wednesday’s game with North Carolina and is out for the remainder of the season. The injury occurred during the second half of the match when it appeared that a Tar Heel player came down on Ukrop’s leg while his foot was still planted in the turf. Ukrop was carried off the field and taken to a local hospital, where the full extent of the injury was determined.

Since the injury happened in just the second game of the season, Ukrop has the option of declaring this season a redshirt year due to injury and returning to complete his eligibility next fall. That would set up what would likely be the finest soccer team in Davidson history, since this year’s team contains just three other seniors but nine juniors.

This year’s team began play last Sunday with a trip to South Carolina’s “Graveyard” to meet the 11th-ranked Gamecocks. The Wildcats had topped USC in two of their last three meetings but had never beaten them in Columbia. Sunday, the Gamecocks’ home dominance continued in a 2-0 win over Davidson that head coach Charlie Slagle attributed to hesitant play in the opening half.

“We played way too tentatively in the first half,” he said. “Instead of reacting smoothly to the ball, our guys would get the ball, stop, turn, look for openings.” Both South Carolina goals were scored in the first half. Davidson was a more aggressive team in the second half but couldn’t convert that aggressiveness into scores. Ukrop had five shots on goal in the second half after just one in the first half but couldn’t find the net. Still, the improved effort in the second period gave Slagle cause for optimism.

“In the second half, we proved that we could play with teams the caliber of USC, and if we play that well the rest of the season we will be successful,” he said.

Davidson came back on Wednesday to forge a scoreless tie with 6th-ranked North Carolina in Chapel Hill. And if there was a feeling that Davidson’s soccer fortunes could not survive the injury to Ukrop, the rest of the team quickly stepped up to dispel it, much to the delight of the more than 100 Davidson students, parents, and alumni in attendance. Aggressiveness on the ball created several good scoring opportunities, and gutty defense prevented the speedy Carolina wings from developing scoring chances of their own. Perhaps the best Davidson chance for a goal came late in the second half when a two-on-one produced a pair of shots at point-blank range. Somehow, though, the Carolina keeper was able to turn both shots away and preserve the tie.

The hero of the day for the Wildcats was freshman goalkeeper Alex Deegan, who posted a shutout over 120 minutes of soccer in his collegiate debut. From Chapel Hill, the team moved onto Richmond, where they faced 16th-ranked Columbia Friday in the first round of the Richmond-Coca Cola Tournament. Junior Cliff Castelloe’s goal at the 38-minute mark of the first half gave the Wildcats a 1-0 victory. Senior Doug Long pitched the shutout in goal, Davidson’s second consecutive shutout of a top-20 team.

In Saturday’s final, the ‘Cats met host Richmond; the Spiders began the season ranked 17th in the country. The game went into overtime tied at 1-1, but a Richmond goal with just a minute left to play sent the Wildcats down to defeat. Sophomore striker David Nieland tallied Davidson’s only goal. The team now holds a 1-2-1 record, with all four games against top-20 competition, and awaits the Wednesday arrival of the 8th-ranked Duke Blue Devils. It was the ‘Cats’ 3-2 victory over Duke in Durham a year ago that virtually trumpeted Davidson’s arrival as a national soccer presence. Wednesday night’s game will be the home opener and the first-ever game under the lights at Richardson Field.

Wildcats Top Clinch Valley For First Win of the Football Season

By Chris Hood

The Davidson football squad rebounded from their season-opening loss to Guilford Saturday with an impressive 32-7 conquest of Clinch Valley at a steamy Richardson Field. Quarterback Richard Howell returned to action after badly bruising his ribs in the Guilford contest and ran for two touchdowns and threw for another despite playing only half the game.

“Richard was a nice surprise for us because he was awfully sore,” head coach Dave Fagg said. “When there isn’t a (bone) break, then it comes down to how tough a guy is. Richard Howell wins that every time.”

Davidson opened the scoring in the first quarter when Matt Matheny took a pitch from Howell and completed a 22-yard touch-Down loft to a leaping Kelly Shirley. After the extra point attempt was wide, the ‘Cats held a 6-0 advantage. “I had two guys to throw it to, but Shirley was open in the end zone and he made a great catch,” Matheny explained. The Highland Cavaliers’ lone points were scored with 5:54 remaining in the opening stanza. An Earnest Starker interception on a tipped ball put Clinch Valley on the ‘Cats 16. Five plays later, Jamie Bryant’s one-yard run put the Cavaliers on the board; the extra point gave Clinch Valley a 7-6 lead.

Howell scampered 31 yards for a score at the 11:21 mark of the second quarter to put Davidson up for good, 12-7. Less than a minute later, Chad Blackwelder recovered a fumble off the snap and gave the ‘Cats possession at midfield. Shirley gained 16 yards on a pass from Howell and Shane Mills picked up 12 more on a pitch to put the ‘Cats on the Clinch Valley 23. Two plays later, Howell hooked up with Shirley in the corner of the end zone on a 21-yard effort. After the ‘Cats missed their second straight two-point conversion attempt, the lead was 18-7.

Clinch Valley began the second half with the ball, but Alden Smith recovered a fumble at the opponents’ 34 less than a minute into the half. On third down and 2 from the 3, Howell kept the ball on an option and weaved into the end zone. Drew Fassett nailed the extra point and Davidson enjoyed a 25-7 bulge. The ‘Cats final tally of the game was set up by an Erik Moledor blocked punt. Bill Evans scooped up the loose ball at the Clinch Valley 18 and was tackled at the two-yard line. On the ensuing play, Shane Mills took a handoff from Kevin Holzworth and scored with 11:23 remaining in the game. Fassett’s extra point put the ‘Cats up 32-7.

Fagg was quick to praise the Davidson defense after the game. The ‘Cats recovered a pair of Clinch Valley fumbles and intercepted two passes. “That’s so significant. It’s unbelievable,” Fagg said of his team’s defensive prowess. Linebacker John Dalton led the ‘Cats with 12 tackles. Fellow linebackers Blackwelder and Martin McCann contributed 7 apiece.

Offensively, Fagg was not quite as pleased. Although Howell was 7-12 for 72 yards with an interception and a touchdown and Matheny was 1-1 for 22 yards and a touchdown, Fagg specifically cited passing protection and completions as areas of weakness. “We'll have to look at a lot of film this week,” he admitted. Nevertheless, there were many offensive bright spots for Davidson. Shirley caught four passes for 66 yards, including two for scores. Howell carried the ball 8 times for 63 yards and two touchdowns, while Mills added 49 yards on 11 rushes and a touchdown.

In order to defeat Rhodes at home this Saturday, the ‘Cats will need to build on the confidence gained against Clinch Valley. The Lynx have been perennial eight-game winners in recent seasons and defeated the ‘Cats 23-13 last year. “This will be a David against Goliath kind of game,” Fagg predicted.

Senior Mary Russ blows past her opponent. Photo By Lee Pennington

Field Hockey Pounds Sewanee, ASU
By Jack Handey

The Davidson field hockey team, which became accustomed to winning last season when it went 14-1-2 en route to the Deep South championship, continued the trend last Sunday when it opened the 1991 campaign with a 6-0 rout of the University of the South. The win was the Wildcats’ 8th in succession and marked their 14th straight game without a loss. Junior Simone Plaisance was a prolific scorer Sunday, recording four goals, while juniors Jacquelin Ukrop and Jennie Plowright each tallied a goal. Goalkeepers Emily Coleman and Mary Ferguson each shut out Sewanee for a half. The victory gave assistant coach and interim head coach Betsy Brown her first collegiate win. Brown is guiding the team during the maternity leave of head coach Betsy Pryor.

The ‘Cats journeyed to Duke Tuesday in the hopes of avenging the only blemish on last year’s record, but were beaten soundly, 4-0. Davidson could manage just 1 shot during the game, while Wildcat keeper Emily Coleman made 22 saves. Turnabout is fair play, though, and Friday Appalachian State felt the team’s wrath. The Mountaineers could muster just a single shot, and Davidson controlled the ball in the ASU half of the field nearly the entire game. Senior co-captain Mary Russ opened the scoring midway through the first half with a rebound goal. Jacquelin Ukrop abused the ASU goalie late in the first half to give the Wildcats a 2-0 halftime lead. In the second half, goals from freshman Nancy Hilles (her first collegiate goal) and Simone Plaisance (off a nice feed from Ukrop) gave Davidson the 4-0 win. The Wildcats return to action this week with road games at Pfeiffer and James Madison.