8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

Depth, Relevance! Fat Chance For Peace

Pertinence is something I usually try to avoid. As a good friend of mine once said, “Good solid journalism is the death of any student newspaper.” Amen. But for many reasons, not the least of them being writer’s block, I have decided to dip my toes into the morally goopy realm of relevance. Here goes.

What with drop-add, war and all, things have been tough lately. People are down, myself included. One day while musing over the perplexing proposition of 450,000 people I don’t know fighting for the ideals of a nation I’m supposed to love (and do, I think), my thoughts turned to a happier time. This was a time when we had not yet begun to blow the beejeesus out of Iraq. A time of innocent romps among the boughs of leafless trees and youthful fancies in a world strangely not as bad as the facts would lead us to believe. Yes, I thought of last week.

I remember one day sitting in the Union and lazily reading some magazine or $5.30 dollar paperback I had just bought at the bookstore. The T.V. blared, and I was sort of listening. I think the station may have been CNN and a NEWSFLASH type thing came on. I heard the sounds of one of those raging mob scenes from the Middle East. You know the kind. A bunch of Islamic students crowd around an old car, wave banners, punch the air, and chant. You can’t understand the words, but the tone communicates something like “Kill, Die, Americans, YA!” etc. The staid news anchor then droned, “The waiting continues, and the tension in the Arab world mounts with each passing moment.”

David W. Scott

Today Saddam Hussein refused again to consider leaving Kuwait saying, “We will fight or die.” At the other end of the television cameras, merely one or two satellite hook-ups away, several Davidson students sat riveted to the Union screen. I heard comments like: “That guy must be f---ing crazy,” “He’s dog meat,” etc.

Now I don’t want what I’m going to say to imply that I disagree with the students involved. With each passing day I become more and more convinced that indeed Mr. Hussein is f---ing crazier than a love-struck rhino who was dumb for a rhino in the first place. But I think it’s more complicated than that.

Those chanting students at the other end of the world and the comfortable occupants of the Davidson College Union, including myself, may have more in common than we would like to think. The thread binding us together across oceans and continents is ignorance. Most kids basically grow up and more or less blindly accept the values, or at least the general mindset of, the culture they are born into. We are American-centric, those forming that banner-waving mob are Arab-centric, and none of us have any idea what the other is like.

Concerns such as these perhaps cannot be foremost during this time of war. For better or for worse, the fight is on and we’d better finish it. But what then? As things stand now it looks like we stand a good chance of coming out of this one intact. If in fact anyone can find Iraq when the smoke clears, some sort of order will have to be established for the survivors. In order to achieve a “Lasting Peace,” the setup arranged by the victors had better be good.

Now please allow me a brief digression. Imagine a little war,

Continued on Page 9

London Offers Perspective

Last year when friends of mine returned from abroad, one thing that almost all repeated was that spending time in a foreign country gives you a more objective perception of America and her institutions. I would often nod in agreement without giving it much thought to what they actually meant. Now, however, after spending a semester in London, I tend to agree.

Mike their American counterparts. Surely they have their share of Rolls’s and Jaguars, but not to the degree or intensity that America has. I stayed with a family in a town north of Cambridge that was certainly one of the wealthiest around. However, they did not flaunt their wealth as would be common or even expected in America. Also, they did not separate themselves from the less wealthy as many do here. The extremes of wealth pervading American society simply do not occur to the same degree there.

I lived in central London for three months, but very rarely did I see a homeless person, much less a whole family. If I went to New York City I would literally trip over them everywhere. Charlotte or even my little hometown of Charleston, WV seems to have more homeless than London. Further, any citizen can walk into a hospital and receive medical care without worrying about the cost, thanks to their national schemes. The doctors do not earn nearly as much as those in America, leaving some to argue that this discourages the best.and brightest, but the difference in health care quality, if existing at all, is not as great as many would think. While we in America often like to believe anyone can be successful if they work hard enough, in reality our society favors the wealthy. For better or worse, our laws and institutions protect the monied and propertied. No better example exists than the Savings and Loan crisis. The owners and board members of these institutions lived lavishly and made unsound loans, while the American public has to foot their $500 billion bill. Though we insure them, many in the industry screamed when attempts at stricter regulation were advanced. If those same loans would have turned profitable, the American public would not have benefited.

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

Davidson And Queens Women Need To Cut Out The Middle Men

“The competition,” “Trespassers,” “Big Hair B-+ches,” “Queenies,” In the last year, I have heard normally mild Davidson women apply all of these phrases to women from Queens College. Many object to the presence of “outsiders,” women other than ourselves, who communicate and party with Davidson men. The Queens women sense this deep resentment and keep to themselves. As a result, a great gulf of bitterness has arisen. I maintain that the root of this misunderstanding is (and I know I'll get in trouble for this one) Davidson men. All of our perceptions of the “enemy camp” are filtered through the lens of the male student. Davidson men have told us, “Queenies come to Davidson to get laid. That’s all they want. If I want a conversation, I’ll call you, but if I want a little more... (nudge nudge wink wink)...” We believe this. Davidson men have told Queens women, “Davidson girls are so cold and unfriendly. Don’t even bother approaching them, they’re too snobby to talk to any of you.” They believe this. In both cases, women are presented to women by men as objects of derision. We are discouraged from mingling with each other, and eye each other with suspicion. Such a situation is dangerous. Not just to our minds and prejudices, but to our bodies. If we continue to allow ourselves to be objectified by men, and continue to accept like judgments of other women, we perpetuate the role of woman as property of man, to be manipulated and controlled as he chooses. By allowing this, we inadvertently encourage sexual harassment and attacks. We lose our humanity, and with it the respect afforded to human beings. We are equated with competition, called “conquests” and “scores.” Obviously, not all Davidson men encourage this behavior. Most are “nice guys,” and would never purposely hurt anyone. But even those harmless “hook love” games described so accurately by D. A. Thompson can have devastating effects when alcohol and poor judgment are mixed together. Nobody, men or women, wants to end up in an Honor Council trial for sexual harassment or rape. Especially when it can be avoided so easily by using common sense and treating every individual as a thinking, sentient being. Men need to realize that the respect Davidson women require is required by every woman, whether she is wearing Umbros and a sweatshirt or tight jeans and a low-cut sweater. Women need to stop back-biting and name-calling. If we sheath our claws and stop spitting we’ll have time to realize our similarities and celebrate our differences. Accomplishing a trust will not be easy after years of misgivings. We need to meet each other in neutral territory, on an equal basis, and with honest enthusiasm. Davidson and Queens have been partying together since before we were born. It is a tradition. But in order to continue that tradition safely, we all must re-examine our prejudices and learn to get along without petty jealousies and territoriality.

So often we accept our institutions without ever realizing that perhaps there is a different way of doing things. Having experienced England, one tremendous difference between there and here concerns health care. In England, one can walk into a national hospital and have treatment, regardless of income. Quieting some of the screams from the right, the quality of care does not suffer. In fact, all portions of their week in these national hospitals are covered. The rich in England are not as gaudy as in America.