THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Campus Living
Liz Davidson & Dair Brown

Due to the fact we are sick with colds and overworked to the point of exhaustion, this week the column
is set aside. Aaaachoo!

How To Avoid The Common Cold
1) When you start feeling run down, SLEEP. Sleep for 12 hours if that is what it takes. If you
go out when you're feeling ill, you'll get sicker. You’ll have to be in bed at some point. It makes
much more sense to get rest before you get a cold or flu.

Oma Blaise
Sexuality & Health

Where, When, And How To Use A Condom
Condoms are one of the most widely used forms of contraception, and are the only form that offer any protection
against the catching or spreading of STDs, including the AIDS virus. Of course, condoms cannot completely eliminate the risk of
pregnancy and STDs; only total abstinence is 100% effective.

What kind of condom should you use? Latex condoms lubricated with nonoxynol-9 spermicide are the most effective. “Natural,” or lambskin
condoms DO NOT help protect against the spread of the AIDS virus. The membranes used in lambskin condoms are porous
enough to allow the tiny virus to get through.

The spermicide nonoxynol-9 not only reduces the number of active sperm, it also has been shown to help prevent against
the AIDS virus. Read condom packages carefully to be sure they have a spermicidal lubricant containing nonoxynol-9. (Condoms provided in
dorm bathrooms are lubricated with nonoxynol-9.) The most common reason for condom breakage is failure to put them on correctly.

See "Condoms" On Page 14

ROAD: New Paths For Service
By Carla Badgett

The YSSC, now called ROAD - Reach Out at Davidson - has many exciting service opportunities available for all Davidson
students within the college and community. Find the program that appeals to you and join us in serving others here
at Davidson. For general information, call the ROAD office at 896-2032.

The Big Sister/Big Brother Program is now in the process of matching Davidson students with little sisters/brothers in the surrounding
community. If you want to get involved with this exciting service opportunity, call Mandy Aycock (-6603) or Machelle Sweeting (-6011)
for the big sister program or Linsey Clarke (-6622), Ramsey Camp (-6538), or Thomas Hazel (6568) for the big brother
program. Take time to make a difference in a child’s life!

Davidson Day Care
Is the pressure of Davidson weighing you down? Are you stressed out about your Economics Review? Did you make a
fool of yourself in front of you-know-who? We all understand how tough it is to be a grown-up all the
time so take some time off and visit Davidson Day Care. You can act like a kid again while the
children receive needed attention. So Reach Out! Call Angela Capillary (-6010) or Mary Dempster (-6641) for more information.

Davidson Elementary Tutoring Program has started off with a Big Bang! We have had many college volunteers who are making
it possible for 20 to 30 elementary-aged children to be tutored Monday through Thursday at Davidson Presbyterian Church. Many of
the children who participate in the program have working parents who don’t have the time to give their children the
needed academic support.help with homework. The college volunteers help the children with schoolwork, listen to them read, and participate in
the snack and playtime. It is both fun and rewarding. Please call Rachel Dunifon (-6042) or Grey Timberlake (-6588) if
you are interested.

Habitat for Humanity has had an ambitious start. Davidson College has sent over 60 students to work at several local
sites. The volunteers have helped with the final stages of the schoolhouse in Huntersville. With the help of students, workers
were also able to frame and roof a house on North Main Street in a week. Students have been working
on the finishing touches on two houses on Potts Street as well. In October, Habitat is involving students in the
renovations on the Ada Jenkins Community Center. Work teams from the college and community plan to convert an old school
into a community center. Call Andrew Bazemore (-6532), Jennifer McDonald (-6328), or Bill Marquardt (-6552) to get involved!

Dean Rusk Program Informs
By Jennifer Reid

Last week, Mr. Bill Anderson of the U.S. Agency for International Development came to campus to speak on his work
on directing U.S. assistance to developing countries in Africa. Many students, at this time, realized how little they really knew
about countries in Africa (or any countries outside the U.S. and Western Europe, for that matter).

The Student Advisory Committee of the Dean Rusk Program, in an effort to broaden the international awareness of the Davidson
community, has created several programs which promise to be helpful if used properly. The first of these projects is the
“Bathroom Brigade” in which colored maps were placed in all of the bathrooms on campus. These maps can be effective
only if they are not removed so that they may be seen by all. The second program is the weekly
Davidsonian column which will highlight a different country each week along with other “awareness increasing” information.

Since Africa is the topic of the most recent speaker, this theme will be continued by highlighting a relatively small
country on that continent: Gambia. Anderson highlighted Gambia as one of the African countries which continues to be deserving of
U.S. aid based upon its progress in the past five years. It is located on the westernmost coast of the
continent and is almost completely surrounded by Senegal.

Languages: 40% of the population speaks Mandinka. English is the official language, but it makes up a very small percentage
of native speech (less than 7%).

Government: Republic

Agriculture: rice, corn

Religion: 95% are Muslim. Due to the Islamic heritage, Gambian men ordinarily take four wives, each raising a family under
his guidance.

Food: Mostly rice with sauces and some meat. Proper etiquette involves sitting around a common bowl and eating with one
hand. It is very impolite to extend the other hand into the bowl.

Other: Gambia has only one paved road which runs East-West through the capital city, Banjul. Ginny Austin (795) has lived
in the Gambia for several years and contributed information to this article.

Farefem i Serrekunda Georgetown 7 (= BRT a] Basse Santa Su

GAMBIA
Population: 799,000
Area (sq mi): 4,361

City Population:
O Over 1,000,000
O Over 500,000
o Over 100,000
o Under 100,000
@ Capital
