THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991. 7

Davidson Arts

Widespread Panic
By Chris Hoveland

The release of Widespread Panic’s second album, *Widespread Panic* this July undoubtedly stirred the interest of Widespread fans on campus
and along the east coast. Their second effort contains seventy-two minutes of music, all digitally mastered, complete with a photo
booklet. *Widespread Panic* offers a new sound compared to *Space Wrangler*, although the band has performed most, if not all,
of the songs over the last year. I know I joined many others anxiously waiting for the album’s release, but
I can’t say my expectations were satisfied.

For most listeners, the album will come as a bit of a shock. If you loved “Space Wrangler,” “Coconuts,” and
“Stop and Go,” you'll be disappointed. Widespread have simply removed themselves from a top 40 direction. On the other hand,
the “spread-head,” or anyone who has seen one of their shows lately, will not be surprised: the album is full
of that patented Widespread rhythm led by bassist David Schools, and the growling (and grating) vocals of John Bell.

Of the thirteen tracks, at least three stand out as landmarks in the maturity of the band. “Pigeons” contains all
the elements of this sound -- a catchy rhythm and bass line to start, followed by an extended jam characterized
mainly by a simple series of drawn-out chord changes and drum rolls. “C. Brown,” a melancholy tune about the pathos
of Schultz’s hero, demonstrates the potential power of the band. “Barstools and Dreamers” fits right in the Widespread mold, but
nevertheless is one of their better endeavors.

Panic experiments with a few new ideas as well. A ballad called “Mercy” is one that can safely be removed
from their repertoire. “Weight of the World,” however, is an eye-opener. True, it may not be what...

Arts Essay: Lollapalooza in GA
By Will Montgomery

Expectations were high for the Lollapalooza tour’s stop at Lakewood Amphitheater in Atlanta on August 18. In the car on
the way downtown I snidely commented that “This is going to be a freak show.” My friend Cliff summed up
the excitement when he replied, “I can’t wait.” Nine hours and seven bands later we were drained, numb, and euphoric
after the display of human diversity and expression both by the bands and the sold-out crowd of very interestingly clad
humans.

The show was the idea of Perry Farrell, lead singer of Jane’s Addiction, who visualized a crossover tour that brought
progressive, alternative, metal, art-rock, and rap music together. Both a celebration of diversity and individualism, Lollapalooza affirmed the imaginative and
creative spirit burning brightly within the human soul.

The format of the show included, in order of appearance, sets by the Henry Rollins Band, led by the former
Black Flag singer who screams/chants poetry to metal rock; The Butthole Surfers, who I missed most of to watch the
street performers in the concession area, are a California surf-punk obnoxious humorous band. Most people said that their show was
quite good, and better than the Henry Rollins Band.

A hint of what was to come exploded in the next set by Ice-T, the Los Angeles rapper. He was
cutthroat, cutting edge, and I slam danced in the mosh pit for his entire set. The addition to his band
of a thrash trio added guitar crash to his street sound and songs such as “Original Gangster” and “Body Count”
rocked the predominantly white crowd into a frenzy.

The “industrial rock” sound of Atlanta band Nine Inch Nails carried the energy of Ice-T’s set even further. The gothic,
technical-noise orchestration echoed Ice-T’s chaotic urban prophecy with a cybernetic Terminator, cuisinart, weed eater edge to it. Next came Living
Color, who were terrible. Vernon Reid’s usually spectacular guitar sounded sloppy and the singer’s voice was too high-pitched and screamy
to blend comfortably with Reid’s expressionistic and jazzy but somehow nervous and monotonous wails. Siouxse and...the Banshees were a bit
of a pause, a rest if you will. Her melodic and disciplined voice juxtaposed with the eerie instrumentation expressed a
paranoid beauty. And, aah yes, Jane’s Addiction. My favorite band since the Clash destroyed my fear that success had endangered
their integrity. Mountains of sound washed in waves of power chords while Perry Farrell’s laser beam voice cut elegant scales
out of some secret warrior dimension. A choreographed expression of lesbian sex with two unbelievably hot strippers during the song
“Nothing's Shocking” was nice. Later, rapper Ice-T took the stage to sing a duet with Perry Farrell. A white supremacist
in the crowd was given the microphone and the audience heard a brief pro-white racist comment before the microphone was
ripped out of his hand. Next, Farrell and Ice-T broke into the song “Don’t Call Me Whitey, Nigger.” If the
essence of Lollapalooza could be isolated, it was at this point most clearly expressed. Opinions exist and must be explored
to be understood. Art helps universalize the expression of these ideas and through sharing art, human life can be informed
and enriched. The final encore saw the drummer from each of the seven bands take the stage to bang on
enormous wooden bongos and African drums. This jam called to mind the universal human primal urge to make music and
expanded the sense of time and community to the entire human race since the stone age. I was dancing like
a freak by this point.

Briefly I must draw an annoying but necessary comparison. While Woodstock lacked the precision and orchestration of Lollapalooza, the communal
sense of artistic celebration was similar. Lollapalooza was far more progressive-minded, more focused, intense, and mature than the great love-in
on the field. Perhaps that is closer to what Widespread Panic is about, but the song’s funky groove, which highlights
a horn section, gives the listener a well-deserved break from those long and at times tedious chordal jams. As far
as the album’s musicianship is concerned, David Schools earns the MVP. With the help of drummer Todd Nance, he dominates
the band’s sound. John Bell’s voice leaves much to be desired, and, as hard as I try, I find nothing
good to say about the lead work of guitarist Michael Houser (whatever happened to those cool little melodies we heard
on Space Wrangler?). Also, Panic would be smart to keep keyboards in their performing line-up because they do contribute greatly
in breaking up the guitar muddle of Houser and Bell. Finally, the bongos and congas sound fruity in the context
of most of Panic’s songs. Give Domingo the axe. All in all, Widespread’s new album, if anything, is certainly a
more accurate portrayal of their live sound. In that aspect, the album shows a good deal of development from Space
Wrangler. This album, however, will not raise the band beyond local fame. Widespread Panic demonstrates the band’s strength in cohesiveness,
but also its lack of musicianship. Occasional listeners will miss those old bee-bop ditties. Veteran Widespread fans, however, will enjoy
72 minutes of well-engineered Panic sound.

One of the most telling and provocative signs of the urgency of our age. Are you sad you missed it?
Don’t worry, there is talk of making this an annual event if support is positive. I can’t see how this
summer’s only financially successful tour of large magnitude won’t prod the music machine into coughing up a few quarters to
support Lol II; revolutions start with art and money. Will Montgomery is a senior English major from Atlanta, and a
co-editor of Davidson Arts.

Whistlin’ Dixie: A force in Nashville’s music today. Complete with voices that roll up and down and sound like they
can’t decide whether to sing or yodel, this style is twangy at times and includes Garth Brooks, Reba McEntire, and
Clint Black. People as non-traditional as Mary-Chapin...
