16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Part Two of Our Interview With Tony Snow, Chief Speech Writer for President Bush

By Kyle Kinner

Davidsonian: I guess the President can say whatever he wants to say, but how will he address his own weaknesses, on the “No New Taxes” pledge, for instance?

Snow: It would shock me if a Democratic candidate in one of the debates did not raise that. He’ll have to come up with a response that will be, “We tried our best to hold the line on taxes, and it became clear that taxes were the only price we could pay to get a budget deal with the Democrats.” In a perfect universe, a universe in which you have a majority in the House and Senate, nobody has to worry about raising taxes, because the first priority is cutting taxes while you cut spending, and making government more efficient, but also creating a growing, vibrant economy that affords opportunities for everybody. Unfortunately, we do not have those majorities yet, and therefore, sometimes we have to play by Democratic rules. Frankly, the budget deal is the single strongest argument for more Republicans in Congress.

Davidsonian: That’s a good way to turn the argument around.

Snow: That’s the sort of response that I would urge upon the President. The thing is, he has incredible political instincts. That’s been one of the great lessons I’ve learned in my six and a half months here; never underestimate George Bush as a politician. A lot of times he will do things that seem sort of daffy, and all of a sudden, you’ll understand that politically, it's an act of genius.

Davidsonian: Bush is a very cautious man, isn’t he?

Snow: Well, he’s cautious, but he is a lot more willing to take on risk, and to grapple with the issues than some of his advisors. The best example is the Michigan commencement speech, where he talked about political correctness. I asked him about that early on, and he said, “Yeah, let’s do it.” A significant portion of the senior staff didn’t want to touch it. “Why do we want to take this in,” they asked, “why on earth do we want to deal with such a contentious issue?” But he understood right away, and it ended up a big hit. He likes to take risks. He is someone who is going to take on the issues, and I think that is one thing that will surprise people. He is, by nature, feistier than he gets credit for. It's typical for a President to be a little more restless than senior staff, who, after a while, become very cautious.

Davidsonian: Speaking of staff, is it a dangerous political environment here?

Snow: Well, it's a political environment, but it's also a collegial environment. One of the big differences, I think, between George Bush and Ronald Reagan is the boss’s extreme loyalty to the people who work for him. There is a real emphasis on teamwork, and as a result, even when people disagree with you, they do it within the context of being members of the same team. They don’t try and knock you off, and there are not the sharpened daggers that there were during the Reagan administration. There is also not a lot of obsession with getting personal credit for this speech, or that legislation. You don’t have a lot of leaks in this administration; it's a different political culture, and it's all traceable to the boss.

Davidsonian: Do the rumors that constantly circulate about personal disagreements between senior staff ever result in the kind of “terminator” leaks you had in the Reagan administration?

Snow: There will be leaks from time to time; every administration leaks things deliberately. However, it will never leak deliberately any kind of conflict within the administration. On particular issues, Sununu and cabinet members may disagree about certain things, but there really is not the kind of back-stabbing intrigue that one would expect. I frankly cannot remember any big confrontation between Sununu and Baker simply because they tend to focus on different stuff. What’s unusual is that the National Security Council and the State Department have not come to blows very often in this administration. Typically they are always in a state of warfare. The President respects Jim Baker and Brent Scowcroft, and listens to both of them. And at the same time, both understand the boundaries of what they can do. Brent, in particular, is very, very careful about not getting into someone else’s territory, so you don’t have big turf wars.

Davidsonian: Do you find Mr. Sununu to be an effective chief of staff?

Snow: Yeah, he’s actually fun to work with. I like working with John.he’s tough, he’s smart, and contrary to public assertion, he’s not a jerk. The outside view is that John Sununu is someone who bullies his staff, and beats up on people, and at least in my experience that’s not been the case. He’s been supportive, and he’s been reasonably skeptical when you put some bone-headed line into a speech. He generally encourages people to do the best that they can for the president. And he is extraordinarily unselfish, extraordinarily hard-working, and he’s someone who’s gotten a bad rap over the years. The problem, I think, is that he does not suffer fools gladly: that’s especially true of the press. As a result, he has not courted the press in the ways that other chiefs of staff, or other senior administrative officials, have in the past, and as a result, he’s gotten beaten up in the press. Eh, it’s Washington, what the hell.

Davidsonian: It’s like Rubbergate, isn’t it? People here are much more concerned about bouncing checks than about the scope of our China policy, for instance.

Snow: Yeah, that’s true. It’s also that they see extraordinary acts of malfeasance on the part of members of Congress. Bill Safire had a comment today, asserting that the average check bounced was two thousand dollars, not under a thousand as has been reported. It’s a scandal, just an absolute scandal. Here are people who act pious and sanctimoniously when someone comes before their committees, and yet, they are committing acts of fraud at least as dramatic as any of the people who are hauled up before the committee. And it’s even worse, because these are people who are ostensibly upholding the public trust.

Davidsonian: Seemingly true. On an entirely different note, are you coming back to Davidson anytime soon?

Snow: I am told through the grapevine that our class is not doing a fifteenth anniversary reunion next year, but is going to do some cluster thing at some point. I don’t know, if I can find some excuse to come back to Davidson, I'll do it. I’ve only been back a few times since graduation, most recently my tenth reunion in ’87. So I haven’t seen a lot of the new stuff.

Davidsonian: Is there a Davidson alumni association here in Washington?

Snow: I think there is, but I stay in close contact with a group of eight guys who lived together in Park Place East. I don’t know if that’s still a house off campus, but there were eight of us who lived together my senior year. My roommate is an investment banker in London; I just talked to him yesterday. We’ve got two other people who also work for Goldman Sachs, one in Memphis, the other in Houston. We’ve got two ministers, one in Bedford, Virginia and Natchez, Mississippi. There are two journalists... well, I still count myself as a once and future journalist... one in Washington, and one in Atlantic City. And finally, a doctor in Lodi, California. So, it’s a pretty diverse group; we’ve managed to get together every year since graduation, so we have our own little alumni group. And I have heard from some Davidson alums here in Washington... [but], the one thing I have learned since I left Davidson, is that the place really does produce extraordinary people, and it’s sort of easy to think, “Eh, we’re here in the middle of nowhere, and we don’t have the cachet of some of the big, private schools,” but it really does amaze other people.

Davidsonian: Extremely competent people?

Snow: Well, yeah, people really do amount to something. It enables ordinary people to do extraordinary stuff. So, it’s a much better college than you realize when you’re there.

Davidsonian: It’s almost a twenty thousand dollar college. Bill Safire had a comment today, asserting that the average check bounced was two thousand dollars, not under a thousand dollars, as has been reported. It's a scandal, just an absolute scandal. Here are people who act pious and sanctimoniously... and yet, they are committing acts of fraud. How much did it cost when you were there?

Snow: Oh, I think it was about four or five. That was a lot of money at the time. Look, it’s still rated as one of the great bargains in US News and World Reports. It’s a school that still sees itself as a teaching institution, although you’ve got probably a lot more academic publication coming out of faculty members than when I was there. There are still people who stay focused. I suspect David Shi [David Emory Shi, Frontis W. Johnson Professor of History], who has been extraordinarily prolific, still handles his teaching well. He was a hell of a nice guy... getting academic plaudits all over the place. The philosophy department does a lot more publication than when I was there. But, I think there are only two people in the philosophy department who were there at that time [Snow was a philosophy major], and that’s Bob Maydole and Lance Stell. I gather, however, that George Abernathy can still be seen roaming around the campus. He was, for years, the head of the philosophy department and was famous for the one ‘A’ per class--maximum. He was a tough, great professor.