10

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

Liz Said, Dair Said: Got A Lighter?

Liz said...

I’ll never forget the anti-smoking movies they made us watch in sixth grade. I think they traumatized me. From that moment on, I vowed that I would not become a smoker.

Recently, I’ve learned even more things about smoking that should discourage anyone. Here are a few:

1) Your smoking affects other people. Second-hand smoke can cause lung cancer. Children of smokers are less healthy than children of non-smokers.

2) Smoking is bad for your immune system. This makes you more susceptible to disease, especially sore throats and colds.

3) Have you ever kissed someone who just finished a pack? The only thing nastier is kissing someone who just dipped.

4) You won’t be able to exercise well if you smoke. Smoking leads to breathing problems. Chain smokers have a hard time running a lap around the track without shortness of breath. What is more pathetic than an otherwise healthy college student who can’t finish a lap around the track without wheezing?

5) No non-smokers like it when people smoke. Have you ever heard anyone say, “Oh isn’t that cute? He’s smoking!” No one likes the smell, and no one likes to breathe smoke from your cigarette. More and more public places are limiting or completely restricting smoking.

6) If you’re still not convinced, how about this? SMOKING REDUCES YOUR SEX-DRIVE. At least, that’s what Dr. Dean O’Dell on Channel 9 News says.

I have yet to hear anything good that smoking does for your body. Even alcohol (in small amounts) helps the heart. If you have any doubts, try renting the movie I’m Joe’s Lungs. Believe me, horror movies are tame by comparison.

Dair says...

Studies suggest that about ten percent of you are going to smoke if it means you have to have a chimney installed in your grave. Just about everyone I know (except Liz, of course) has had a drag at a party after they’ve passed that tolerance threshold. So what should you smoke if you’re going to anyway? Should you go for filters? Lights? Menthol?

Bad news, you guys. Contrary to previous studies, they’re starting to hypothesize that in many ways it makes very little difference what you smoke. Your chances of having a heart attack are not reduced by smoking filter or light cigarettes instead of regular ones. And don’t forget strokes—your chances there aren’t reduced either.

What does make a huge difference is the amount you smoke. Smoking a pack and a half a day of lights is worse than smoking half a pack of unfiltered-by-God-hardcore-straight-tobacco-Reds (at least where your circulatory system is concerned).

Menthol is especially bad. Not only do you bring in regular smoke, you’ve got some fiberglass floating around in your lungs too. Sure, they’re minty, but something about internalizing construction materials doesn’t do a lot for the body.

The bottom line for my half this week is if you’re going to

See "Dair” on page 12

How American Express helps you cover more territory — For less money.

Become a Student Cardmember today and get roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each.

Only the American Express® Card offers an exciting travel program exclusively for students—including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. And much, much more.

Just look at the map and pick the place you’d like to visit. If it’s on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use a certificate to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.

You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime—because there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.

By becoming a Student Cardmember, you’ll also enjoy other benefits from the American Express® Student Privileges™ Program. Such as up to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month for an entire year—absolutely free. And that’s just one example of how the Card can help you save.

For just $55 a year, the Card gives you all these savings. And it’s easy to apply. Just call us (have your bank address and account number on hand). What’s more, with our special student offer, it’s easier to get the Card now while you’re still in school than it may ever be again.

So get the Card. And get ready to cover new territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.

*Minneapolis/St. Paul, St. Louis and New Orleans are considered cities east of the Mississippi River.

**A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. $3.70 is equal to the value of a domestic long-distance call of 22 minutes at standard rates, excluding tax. Credit will be applied to the first $3.70 of long-distance calls made each month, after which you are responsible for payment. $3.70 is based on a 22-minute call at standard rates, excluding tax. Enrollment must be completed by December 31, 1991.

Membership Has Its Privileges®

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX

If you’re already a Cardmember, there’s no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.

Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Airlines’ performance. © 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.