4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON, Editor-in-Chief
LEIGH McKEEVER, Executive Editor
WALTER PRICE, Executive Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE, Copy Editor
DAVID SMYTH, Copy Editor
SEAN LIND, News Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
JOHN PATTON, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

Steps In The Right Direction

Kudos to Davidson for some highly encouraging signs that we're starting to get our heads screwed on straight again as
a community. In the past week, the college and several members of the Davidson community have made some great strides
towards making life better for us all.

First, the decision to build two new sets of senior apartments indicates that the college is beginning to direct its
resources towards projects that will benefit the average student rather than a select few like those who gained from the
college's last major construction project. By developing better student housing, Davidson shows a true commitment to the day-to-day welfare of
the student body. The construction of the apartments makes Davidson look better than any gym ever could. Building the apartments
now is also a wise economic maneuver which will not only save the school money, but also help employ dozens
of construction workers suffering the effects of the recession.

This week also saw 472 members of the Davidson community participate in the Bone Marrow Drive in the College Union.
It would seem as if the apathy which has inspired so many opinion pieces is on the wane. What the
high level of participation in the drive also conveys is that Davidson is truly a college community. Interest in leukemia
here at Davidson was inspired when one of our own had to have a bone marrow transplant last year. Whether
we knew him personally or not, just about everybody in the community was concerned about David Lindsay's progress. David's transplant
last year alerted the college community to the near impossibility of a leukemia patient's finding a donor whose marrow perfectly
matches their own, and 472 people rallied together to try and trim those difficult odds.

Finally, last Friday's Rusk House formal was the first in the past three years unblemished by a fight. The past
few weeks, in fact, have seen a decline in the number of conflicts that end in violence around here. Rather
than beat each other up, we seem to have found better ways to enjoy ourselves on the court. If even
I can't find much to bitch about in an editorial, things must be looking up.

- d.a.t.

Letters

Homosexual Student Responds

To the Editor:

I am very happy about the article that appeared in last week’s Davidsonian, "Homosexuality At Davidson.” As far as most
people know I am a “normal” student here at Davidson. I go to court parties, am active in campus organizations
and I even date guys. But I am also a lesbian. Reading this article gave me encouragement. I have never
been “involved” with a woman, but I know that I am gay. I am pressured by the standards of this
campus to date men. I have even "hooked" with guys. I have been programmed by years of society’s influence to
think that I am the one that needs to change. It is only here at Davidson that I have fully
accepted myself and realized that there is nothing wrong with me.

Even though I accept myself, there are a lot of times that I feel completely alone. An entire part of
my life is being suppressed because I have no means of expressing it here. If an organization was formed here
at Davidson, I would greatly admire anyone who joined because that would require an incredible amount of courage. There are
people at Davidson who fear homosexuality, which is why I would never want my sexual orientation to be common knowledge.
But I think not enough credit is given to those people at Davidson who are understanding. I only choose to
tell my closest friends and theyhave been more understanding than I could have imagined. They were most understanding because they
did not feel it was something I should be ashamed of. They think it’s just a normal choice. Most of
the publicity given to homosexuality is the fear that people have here. But I think there are a number of
people here who would be understanding given the chance. I also understand very well that it is not easy to
tell people that you’re gay, even if they are your best friend. I hope that with such articles as Ms.
Strickland’s a gradual change is taking place.

NAME WITHHELD UPON REQUEST
March 12, 1991.

Marrow Drive Response - To the Editor:

Six months and almost $30,000 later, our first bone marrow drive is successfully behind us. Many "Thank Yous" are due.
Thanks to the Union for their support and patience. Thanks to Patterson Court, Campus Police, Erik Christensen and his crew,
and Ethan Allen and The Green Mountain Boys for their help during our "Music Marrow-thon.” Thanks to Dave Hampton in
Personnel for writing BlueCross and Blue Shield, which netted our only corporate donation. Thanks to everyone who supported us financially;
every little bit helped.

We were one of the first schools in the nation to attempt a project of this nature, certainly the first
in this area, and at a time of year when everyone is tired, and complaints of apathy abound, it was
encouraging and heartwarming to see such school support. So a special thank you to everyone who came and gave.

Leukemia is the only disease that can be cured by the commitment of another individual, and last Wednesday, we made
472 of these commitments. Davidson College owes a BIG thank you to Gigi Cooke, Millicent McKeithen, David Lindsay, Lindsay Shoemaker,
Grier Martin, Robert DuBose, Catherine Turner, Mary Faith Mount, Steven Keller, and Jenny McDonald.

See "Marrow" on Page 7.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Offices are
located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries
do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor:

Well, I got that “feeling” last Wednesday. You know the feeling--it’s that rush of adrenaline and pleasure one gets when
all seems right with the world. It’s that feeling you got at the end of Rocky movies and Top Gun,
or when you aced that tough-as-nails midterm, or when you hit a winning shot.

On Wednesday, March 13th, Davidson College held its first Bone Marrow Registry Drive. The months of hard, and at times,
frustrating work of our committee finally came to a satisfying conclusion. It was as if a page had been lifted
from the Field of Dreams movie script--"Build it. People will come..." Well, we did and you did! Over 470 people--which
is close to $29,000 worth of testing--turned out in just over five hours to commit themselves to becoming potential life-savers.

I was really psyched to see so many different aspects of our college community represented in their willingness to step
forward and unite in this worthy cause. In theory, it might seem doubtful that so many people would choose to
spend a chunk of their valuable free time to have their blood drawn, but seeing people lined up out the
door waiting to get “poked” to the tunes of the Eagles and Jimmy Buffett, can be truly rewarding. Even more
impressive were those who saw that their very real fear of needles was secondary to their desire to give.

Thanks goes out to the many, many people who gave their time, money, and support throughout the many phases of
this drive. On behalf of the Bone Marrow Drive committee, I want to thank everyone who signed their name (in
blood) to the list which has and will provide the miracles of a lifetime. Give yourself a pat on the
back and soak in the feeling...

Sincerely,
DAVID LINDSAY
