THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Managing Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
H. BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

"The South's Foremost College Weekly"
Founded in 1914

ARE BEING RELEASED [YOU MEAN ITS INAUGURATION DAY ALREADY?]

Letters

We Can & Will Be Better

President Kuykendall relayed the following comments to the faculty before their meeting last week. The editors find his assessment of
the mounting anger and tension among the community to contain a vital message of hope for the college, and we
have obtained his permission to reprint his statements here.

Let me request a moment of personal privilege on the issue of campus unrest which is the subject of the
resolution to be considered under New Business. I do so not to attempt to influence any deliberations, but to let
you know some of my feelings in brief compass, so that I can preside over the discussion without need of
further comment.

Most of us have shared a common concern in recent days over events which have evidenced what Will Terry has
aptly labeled “meanspiritedness” within this community. For many of us, the current mood on campus is particularly troubling against the
backdrop of a Statement of Purpose and a generally accepted mission for this College which intends a far nobler life
together than these episodes and sentiments seem to express. In my judgment, we should not waste too much time in
expressing surprise or dismay at the outbreak of such negative sentiments at Davidson. Our cultural environment is full of such
things, and any adequate understanding of human nature must take such possibilities into account. Our College’s heritage contains adequate allowance
for the existence of sin, original or otherwise.

But it also allows for the existence of virtue -- of grace, of acceptance, of understanding, of appreciation of differences,
of goodness and kindness to others. The point to focus on just now, it seems to me, is that we
mean to do better and to be better; and we shall. There are many signs of positive resolve already evident.
The leadership of student government, and student leadership in general, has been strong in opposing the intolerant spirit. The Dean
of Students and his staff have undertaken effective responses, and the Dean’s letter has expressed our intentions and hopes with
his characteristic directness. The faculty -- many of you -- have already found ways, in class and out, to participate
in the solution of the problem; and the proposed resolution (or any alternative to it) will surely be of help
as well.

Within the next days and weeks, there will be further opportunities to implement the proper spirit within this community. Clearly,
these next several days are also fraught with other sorts of stress, but I would urge you to continue to
seek ways to bring the College family together. Thanks for what you have done and will do to deal with
our current problems.

December 3, 1991

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Williams Unfair To Students

To the Editor:

Recently, I visited Davidson. While there, I stumbled upon theNovember 18 issue of The Davidsonian and its quote of the
week. Although I could empathize with Dean Williams about the issue of “intellectual conformity,” I felt disheartened that he felt
Davidson students to be less “interesting” and “stimulating” than students of other colleges and universities. I attended Davidson for 2
years then transferred to another school to pursue studies in special education. I will never regret the 2 years I
spent at Davidson. While there, I not only benefitted from my studies, but from a few professors as well. These
professors remained open-minded and allowed for freedom of thought by promoting a democratic classroom full of individuality and intellectual stimulation.
Granted, not all students remained as open-minded as these professors and may have chosen to “conform” to typical standards of
society, but their ideas were no less interesting.

Now, I live in a new environment with new people. Sometimes, my classes do not allow for the individuality or
stimulation and interest that I experienced my previous 2 years. Now that I am away from Davidson, I can fully
appreciate my classmates, friends, and professors with whom I experienced knowledge and growth. Dean Williams, do not take for granted
those people who surround you. If you want to find your students as “interesting” and “stimulating,” encourage individuality.

Sincerely,
-Cameron Kempson

Davidsonian Upsets Readers

To the Editor:

I am writing to express my concern over the use of gender-neutral language in the past two editorials in The
Davidsonian. Although I understand the desire to avoid gender-specific vocabulary in referring to groups of people of mixed gender, I
find the use of the neuter plural expression et alia in reference to humans offensive. This usage was particularly disturbing
in the passage “homosexual students, faculty, et alia” in the “Time for F.L.A.G.” editorial, which purported to take the stance
that the college would benefit from a heightened awareness of homosexuals as individuals. I would have preferred et alii, but
I readily admit to being conservative in matters of language. The abbreviation et al. would have avoided the problem altogether.
I am coming to accept that some conventional expressions must be abandoned because many are offended by gender-specific language, but
I am not convinced that The Davidsonian’s solution is a happy one.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,
E.C. Teviotdale,
Visiting Assisting Professor
Dept of Art

To the Editor:

I am distressed by your policy of printing letters with the names withheld. I can understand if it is a
matter of safety, but to allow someone to hide behind a front of anonymity is poor policy for a newspaper.
If people have opinions that they want printed, they should have the courage to back their ideas with their names.

Sincerely,
Muffy Pepper

JYA Concerned

Dear Editors:

What the hell is going on? I leave to spend the year on vacation (Oh, I mean studying on JYA.
Yeah, that’s it) and that great train we call Davidson jumps the tracks and takes a detour to the land
of the odd and dangerous. (I know some of these are old, but bear with me.)

--Mysterious walnuts start destroying Mazdas. (In the September 30th Crime Report, for those with their back issues at the ready
for easy reference.) The perfect crime, by the way.
--Davidson falls eleven spots on the U.S. News Venerability Scale. I feel dumber already. Or is it more dumb?
--People start fiddling with the Honor Code. C’mon guys, remember New Coke?
--Oma Blaise starts writing X-rated columns, giving everybody the willies.
--Air-banders dance around with socks on their Red Hot Chili Peppers.
--Racism and general intolerance appear to be really heating up. Of course, they’re old favorites, so I don’t know why
I was surprised about that.
--Dickens writes the November 4th lead editorial. First, he’s dead, right? Second, he didn’t even go to Davidson, did he?
--The Braves win the

See “Lind” on page 8
