MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WIRE!

Bylaws In Higher Education: More Power, Less Money

WASHINGTON (CPS) -- The number of top women administrators in colleges has increased dramatically in recent years, according to data
collected by the Office of Women in Higher Education of the American Council on Education.

Women now make up 11 percent of all presidents of 3,000 accredited colleges and universities in the United States. The
data indicates that 328 women were serving as chief executive officers in December 1989, up from 296 in 1987 and
118 in 1975. In 1989, 20 women presidents were African-American, 16 were Hispanic, two were Asian-American, and five were Native
American. Seven of the Hispanic women presidents served at Puerto Rican institutions.

Though women have gained power, a 1991 publication of the Association of American Colleges reflects that the median salary for
female administrators averages 41 percent less than the same for male administrators.

With American accounting methods and terms, Western businessmen in Soviet ventures have complained that they don’t understand Russian accounting methods.
“It’s amazing to think an entire country will be adopting the methods set out in our book,” says Anderson, who
will spend two weeks instructing Soviet professors on the use of the book in the spring. “Given a chance for
free enterprise, I think they will be thirsty for what we have to offer,” says Anderson. A team of Soviet
professors is working on the translation of the text, with completion next fall.

Brouhaha Builds Over Brew Sales At Colorado State

FORT COLLINS, Colo. (CPS) -- A debate has been brewing over the sale of suds at Colorado State University games.
The final decision: beer will continue to flow in Hughes Stadium -- just a little less than before. The question
of whether to discontinue sales in the stadium emerged after the school experienced problems with fans drinking.

Some others include the University of Colorado, University of Hawaii, San Diego State University, and the University of California-Fullerton.

Video Game Competition Hits Dozens of Schools

(CPS) -- Goofing off sometimes has definite advantages. Ask Duane Olenius. Olenius, a junior, took a small detour from studying
and wound up as Mankato State University’s winner in the Nintendo Campus Challenge that’s currently criss-crossing the country. Now he’s
headed for Disney World this January with a shot at a new car and scholarship money ranging from $1,000 to
$2,500. His combined scores on Super Mario Bros. 3, Dr. Mario, and Pinbot topped those of 2,000 challengers and won
him the trip to the finals in Orlando, Fla. In the finals, Olenius had to face off against his brother
Dave, 21, and four other challengers.

By Catharine McEaddy

At the 58th Biennial Grand Conclave of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity, Davidson College’s own Delta Chapter received the Founders Award
of Chapter Excellence. This award, which was presented in Atlanta, Georgia on July 26, 1991, is to distinguish the top
fourteen chapters of Kappa Sigma in both the United States and Canada. The Founders Award is given in recognition of
campus and community participation of each chapter. When asked about the distinguished honor, Kappa Sigma’s secretary, Andrew Spainhour, said, “As
a house we are really pleased to have won the Founders Award. It’s awfully nice to be recognized by the
national fraternity in such a way.” Davidson’s Delta chapter, which was established in 1890, was selected from among the 214
chapters of Kappa Sigma.

Bicycle Registration

By David Thompson

Six bicycles have been reported as stolen from Davidson College students. Public Safety is now engraving the student’s driver’s license
number onto the frame of the bike in order to facilitate identification.Safety Director Ray Thrower said Saturday that the bicycle
registration drive will take place outside the Union on Wednesday, September 11, weather permitting. The drive will last from 8-11
am and 1-5 pm. If necessary, the drive will take place inside the Union. Thrower urged all students with bicycles
to purchase a high-quality lock. Thieves have mastered the art of removing cable and chains, but titanium locks are apparently
foolproof. These locks are available in the Student Store and are being sold at cost.

Thrower also noted that out of the six stolen bicycles, only one was locked, and only one was registered with
the Office of Public Safety. He emphasized the necessity for all students with bicycles to register them with Public Safety
as soon as possible. There is no charge for bicycle registration. Registration includes the engraving of a unique identification number
on the bicycle.

Duane beat his big brother and three others to win the overall title. “I’m getting a little mileage out of
that,” he says. That left one challenger, 19-year-old Kim Sandmeyer, who won the females’ championship. Olenius, 20, and Sandmeyer squared
off, and he squashed her by a few thousand points. Olenius admits the win has helped his love life a
little, but that’s part of the price.

Keith Miger, vice president for student affairs, conveyed that the wage disparity has increased over the past two years. “I
think, in perspective, the problems have been large in number but small in magnitude,” said Miger. Still, in its decision
to continue selling beer, the university placed some restrictions on sales. The policy states that no alcohol can be brought
into the stadium, vendors cannot sell beer in the stands, a person may only buy one beer each time he
or she is at the concession stands, and sales will stop at halftime. “We’re really beginning an all-out campaign for
behavior,” Miger said. “We are trying to work with our student government to launch an educational campaign about drinking.”

CHICAGO (CPS) -- Red-eyed accounting students at U.S. colleges and universities can take solace in the fact that they are
not the only ones to suffer through the “Principles of Accounting.” Now the Russians will, too. The 1,300-page classic, written
by Belverd E. Needles, Jr., a professor at DePaul University in Chicago, and Henry R. Anderson, a professor at the
University of Central Florida, has been chosen by a United Nations agency to be used in the Soviet Union’s university
system. With communism crumbling, Soviets are being forced to adopt business concepts, leaving educators scrambling for help. Because there is
little familiarity with general accounting, only one book was selected. The challenge toured campuses in the western U.S. last spring,
while colleges in the eastern part of the country are participating this fall. A student with a valid I.D. from
the college where the Challenge is being held can take part.

ATTENTION SOCIAL DIRECTOR: Try one of our Western Hoagies! Ideal for social functions and feeding large groups. Call today for
all details! (704) 892-1332

The Best Haircut in Town: Serving Davidson College for more than 7 years. Hair World, Suite #3, 19900 S. Main
St., Cornelius, NC 28031. Owner/Stylist Diane Umbarger. Great Location! South Lake Shopping Center. Call (704) 896-7611.
