16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW With Tony Snow, Chief Speech Writer for President Bush By J. Kyle Kinner

The following is an interview between Kyle Kinner, a junior working in Washington as an intern at the National Republican Congressional Committee this semester, and Tony Snow. Snow is President George Bush’s chief speech writer and a 1977 Davidson College graduate.

Davidsonian: So what has happened to you since Davidson?

Snow: I taught briefly in Kenya with a professor at the University of Nairobi, and everyone essentially went out to his village, Bushanglia or some of the nearby schools. Then I came back and tried to figure out what I wanted to do. The first thing I did was wait tables while I served as a substitute teacher at my old school district in Cincinnati; then worked for the Advocacy Council for the Mentally Ill and Developmentally Disabled for six months in North Carolina; went off to graduate school at the University of Chicago... collected no degree at all and came back to North Carolina and worked for the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation for a few months. I landed my first newspaper job in Greensboro at the Greensboro Record... two years there, went to Norfolk at the Virginian Pilot for thirteen months; from there to the Daily Press in Newport News, Virginia as editorial page editor for fifteen months, then up to Detroit for three and a half years at the Detroit News as deputy editorial page editor and back to Washington as the editorial page editor for almost five years at the Washington Times.

Davidsonian: So, how did you get here?

Snow: I got a phone call out of the blue in December from Ed Rogers, who was at that point the two deputy under Sununu... had lunch with Ed and Andy Carr, Sununu’s principal deputy... they offered me the job... we haggled for a couple of months... and took it.

Davidsonian: So, you actually had no contact with the President?

Snow: No, at one point in the interview process I said, “Well, maybe I ought to talk to the President,” and Sununu began... whenever Sununu begins a sentence with all...

Davidsonian: What happened with the Nuclear Disarmament speech, frankly?

Snow: The National Security Council had come up with a draft, as it often does. We probably would have gotten a chance to pep it up, or make it a little more poetic, but news of the speech had leaked to the Washington Post, and at that point they decided, “We’ve got to go with this thing and we’ve got to go with it quickly.” Otherwise, you would have had a weekend of speculation about the speech. You would have had people who were opposed to the substance of the speech, within the Pentagon. It just would have been destructive to wait. On Friday morning Marlin Fitzwater announced the President would be giving an address at eight o’clock. Then they contacted the networks and the networks all agreed to air it. It really was a speech whose timing was driven by a leak.

Davidsonian: Today in the Post, David Broder has suggested that the President sufficiently contrast the Republican party with the Democrats...

Snow: That they are sufficiently partisan? That goes back to what I was saying before, which is that the President has no appetite for it now. I suspect what will happen, and this is purely a guess, is that he will try to identify issues that will enable people in Congress and the Senate to draw very sharp contrasts.

Davidsonian: Is the President especially sensitive to the criticism that he is “out-to-lunch” on domestic policy? That is a major concern in the papers.

Snow: Yeah, he is, and wants to talk about it more, which is why he came up with this scheme for doing domestic fundraising speeches. I suspect also that there are some rabbits in the hat. Right now, frankly, we do not know how he wants to handle domestic policy next year. It’s pretty clear that on domestic policy, we’ve got a series of issues and bills that need to be addressed between now and the end of Congress. Most of our focus in November will be consumed by dealing with the urgency of the moment. I would guess that the natural point for unveiling any new kind of domestic agenda would be the State of the Union address in late January, and use that to go out and promote the policies. Broder’s right, we have not drawn sharp, partisan boundaries. But I think you’ll find, if you look at the speeches, that there’s a lot of implicit contrast which the candidates will be able to make use of. You see, the key election is not for the Presidency. Unless we really step in it, we’re going to win the Presidency. The key election is for the Congress, because if there is no pickup in House or Senate seats, he’s going to be a lame duck. And that’s a very high price to pay. Ronald Reagan learned this in 1984; George Bush and his people clearly do not want to repeat that mistake.

Davidsonian: Are you on board for the next campaign?Due respect,” you learn to duck because he’s about to blow your brains out... he said, “With all due respect, I don’t think the President of the United States and Leader of the Free World ought to be auditioning for you.” I said, “Well, I think you’re probably right.” So we ended up doing the interview with the President after I accepted the job.

Davidsonian: Has it been a good experience?

Snow: It’s been wonderful. It has exceeded all of my expectations. I was worried a little bit about the kind of ‘dripping dagger’ intrigue that you had in the Reagan years, but there’s really been none of that here.

Davidsonian: What’s the difference between journalism, even conservative journalism, and speech writing, where there is a particular ideology you attempt to define?

Snow: Well, it’s not even an ideology, really. It’s a set of policies that you have to promote. You’re not writing for yourself, you’re writing for the President, so there may be areas in which you disagree either in approach or substance and you take the boss’ lead. The clear example is a number of times we have thought the speech should be much more sharply partisan than it turned out to be. The President says, “I don’t want to do this, I don’t want to go personally after Democrats.” And you act accordingly.

Davidsonian: Did the Nuclear Disarmament speech originate here (in which Bush pledged unilaterally to reduce stockpiles in certain categories of nuclear weapons)?

Snow: No, it didn’t. There have only been two speeches that partisan lines, and after the convention next August, he will be very partisan. But for now, as Sununu put it to me in the past, it’s better for him to be running as leader of the Free World than as merely someone seeking the Republican nomination for President.

Davidsonian: To what degree is the President actively involved in producing his speeches?

Snow: The President has played a major role in a lot of speeches, but since I’ve been here, he’s not written any, although he will pay very close attention to them. For instance, the Yale address was about China. We had come in with a series of proposals about what he might want to say, but he said, “No, I want to talk about China, this is how I want it said, give me a draft tomorrow.”

Davidsonian: So, you’re very order-driven, as far as what you write?

Snow: Yeah... but on the other hand, George Bush gives more speeches than any other President in American history, and he is not going to give us explicit orders on every speech.

Davidsonian: And they’re all tailored to a different audience?

Snow: They’re all tailored to the audience, yeah.

Davidsonian: Does each attempt to highlight a particular point of policy?

Snow: Yeah, the general strategy we have right now with campaign fundraisers is, give a quick litany on the high spots of the domestic agenda. First, look back at past triumphs: child care, clean air, etc. Then take a look at present priorities, which would include the crime bill, transportation, energy, and education. The fact is, with the Democratic Congress, there are plenty of things which we’ve proposed that have gone absolutely nowhere. The best example is the crime package, which has been sitting around for more than two and a half years. So you start with that litany, and then you focus on one issue.

Snow: Oh yeah. I don’t know exactly how they’re going to structure speech-writing, but it is one of my assumptions when I took this job that I would be on the campaign trail. The Hatch Act, which forbids political lobbying by federal employees, does not apply to members of the speech-writing department. So, by law, we are allowed to do that kind of thing. The irony is that for campaign expenses, the RNC (Republican National Committee) will have to pick up the tab.

Davidsonian: Has the campaign already started? Critics argue that the stop at the Grand Canyon was just a photo-op; is the feel-good, morning in America kind of attitude going to be indicative of the campaign as a whole?

Snow: No, I don’t think so. It will be issue-driven and focused on drawing very clear and compelling distinctions between Republicans and Democrats. So, I do not think it will be a feel-good, morning-in-America kind of campaign. If it is, we’re dead -- we’re absolutely dead.

Davidsonian: And the people in the White House understand that? Because that’s a worry I think some conservatives have, that somehow the Bush administration might drop the ball.

Snow: Oh yeah. Conservatives tend to underrate George Bush both as a politician and as a conservative. There’s always the assumption that he’s kind of reckless and he doesn’t really understand all the tough challenges that lie out there. This is a guy who’s lost as a presidential candidate, as well as won. He’s someone who understands absolutely the dangers of becoming hostage to the Democrat Congress in his second term. George Bush learns from his and from the mistakes of others. I think that you’re going to find in the next campaign that he will not be a shrill partisan, but he will be partisan. His job will be to provide the equivalent of a nuclear umbrella for Congressional and Senate candidates. He is not going to run out and say ‘Go get Senator X.’ Instead, he will support Republican candidates and he will provide the issues that allow Republican candidates to go to bat against Democrats.