THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

War Related Activities Continue On Campus

Photo By Ben Hopkins
Peace Vigils will continue to be held on Wednesday at 5:15 p.m. in front of Chambers.

Graver Organizes Letter Writing Campaign

By Tom Koonce
Last Tuesday, February 5, a group of Davidson students gathered in the Union to write letters to the various national TV networks, asking them to provide balanced coverage of the Persian Gulf War. The meeting was organized by senior Molly Graver. She believes the media is not allowing critics of the war to express their displeasure with the action in the Persian Gulf. Graver said, "Unless debate over the war is increased, there will be little chance of stopping the war."

Approximately twenty-five letters were sent out to ABC, NBC, CBS, and CNN. Graver added that besides asking for more critical discussion on the war, the letters also “asked that journalists not use sanitized euphemistic language which dehumanizes the Iraqi people and protects the public from the reality that war kills.”

Graver plans for this political action organization to write letters to representatives in Congress. Through these, the organization hopes to persuade our representatives to work for and support negotiations for peace before a full-scale ground war begins. The organization is also planning to write letters of support to soldiers from this area who are stationed in the Persian Gulf. Besides letter-writing, the group is trying to bring an Arab-American to campus to speak about possible existing or future Arab discrimination.

The next meeting of this political action organization is planned for Wednesday, February 13th at 9:00 p.m. in the Conference Room of the Union.

Attendance For Peace Vigils Decrease As War Continues

By Ross Sloop

The Davidson College Quakers have been praying for peace in the Middle East since mid-December. Many of the students on campus have joined them in their weekly vigils held outside Chambers. Professor Ralph Levering has been organizing the gatherings.

Although the Quakers, also called the Friend’s Church, organize the vigils, they welcome any students or faculty who wish to participate. During the weeks preceding the start of war, the gatherings attracted 60-80 people.

Student awareness reached a climax the day before the outbreak of war when about 300 individuals congregated. Since then, the number of people praying outside Chambers has dwindled to 15 or 20.

“I am not disturbed by the sudden decrease in participation,” says Levering. “Regardless of outside involvement, the Friend’s Church has decided to continue the public meditations until the war ends.”

Professor Levering also points out that Quakers maintain an awareness of global events throughout good and bad. He feels that the meditations and silent vigils can have an impact by creating an atmosphere of solidarity and by expressing a common concern.

The Quakers encourage both students and faculty to get involved in the 15 minutes of silent prayer. They gather every Wednesday outside of Chambers from 5:15 to 5:30.

College Presbyterian Church Ring Bells For Peace

By Sarah Goldsmith
At 12:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, the bells at Davidson College Presbyterian Church ring for approximately one minute to remind the Davidson community about the war in the Persian Gulf. Davidson College chaplain Chuck Hasty explains that it is “not to support any one position in the war, but to keep the community aware.” The war “so overwhelmed people at first,” that now, as everyone is returning to their normal routines, “it is important to incorporate the knowledge that our country is at war into our general, everyday life.” The bells serve to unite the community in thought for that one minute. They are a simple reminder to stop what you are doing for a minute and pray for peace.

COLLEGE GRADUATES
Put your education to work—become a Lawyer's Assistant
“The Career for the 90's”
at The National Center for Paralegal Training
* Oldest and largest graduate level ABA-approved program in the Southeast
* Employment assistance—over 1,000 employers in 38 states have hired our graduates
* 4 month day program with housing available
* 8 month evening program
* Diversified Curriculum—specialize in Litigation, Corporations, or Real Estate and Probate—including “Computers in the Practice of Law”

Meet with our representative
Tuesday, February 19, 1 - 5 p.m.
Contact College Placement Office for an appointment.
Call or write for a free brochure and more information.

The National Center for Paralegal Training
3414 Peachtree Rd, NE Atlanta, GA 30326
800-223-2618 In Georgia, call 404-266-1060

Please send me information about a career as a Lawyer's Assistant.