2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

Collegiate Briefs

No Bare Breasts Or Buttocks
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. (CPS) - Hoping to help control annual riots and rowdy behavior by visiting collegians during spring break
each year, the Palm Springs City Council adopted a series of measures that make it a crime to wear string
bikinis, to bare breasts, or expose one’s buttocks in public. The ordinances, in effect, will give police the power to
arrest and get more rowdy partiers off the streets. Mayor Sonny Bono called the new rules “courageous” in light of
the money that visiting collegians spend annually.

Recants Rape Allegations
DELAWARE, Ohio (CPS) - An unnamed Ohio Wesleyan University student admitted Feb. 15 that she had lied when she reported
she had been raped near campus last fall, local police Det. Mark Drum said. The woman, who had made other
false crime reports, admitted she had lied after police confronted her with their suspicions that the assault, which was the
second part of three rape reports. The student will now face campus disciplinary procedures to determine if she committed “a
serious breach of our student code of conduct,” spokesman Todd Wilson said. Separate false rape reports caused widespread fear at
George Washington and Ohio State universities in December and January, and ultimately prompted punishment of the women who made the
reports.

California Students’ Tuition Rises 40 Percent
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. (CPS) - In what was perhaps the biggest single tuition increase imposed on any students anywhere, the
University of California’s Board of Regents voted Feb. 15 to raise in-state “registration fees” by 40 percent. “We are disappointed,”
said Susan Polan of a statewide student lobbying group that had asked the regents to hold to their previous promise
to keep tuition hikes to a maximum of 10 percent a year. In a press release, the regents said they
felt they had no choice amid drastic cuts in state funding of the nine-campus UC system. Besides raising in-state fees
by $650 to $2274 and out-of-state fees by $1282 to $9973, the board also voted to cut 1000 non-teaching employees
from the campuses’ workforce and to delay the building of a new UC campus in the San Joaquin Valley.

Brown Expels Student For Saying “Fighting Words”
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (CPS) - Brown University officials confirmed Feb. 12 they had expelled a student for drunkenly shouting insults at
black, Jewish, and homosexual students during his birthday “celebration” on campus Oct. 18. The student, identified by a local paper
as football player Douglas Hann, reportedly had been disciplined once before for calling a black student at a party a
“nigger.” Hann is the first Brown student, and perhaps even the first student in the country, expelled for violating “fighting
words” policies adopted by scores of campuses during the past two years as ways to combat college racism.

President Refuses To Recall “Sexist” Video
MARQUETTE, Mich. (CPS) - Northern Michigan University President James B. Appleberry refused to recall an 8-minute promotional videotape that some
faculty members claimed was sexist. A 70-second introduction to the video featured dancing teenaged girls wearing form-fitting leotards. While the
controversy raised “basic and contextual gender issues” on campus, Appleberry told a Faculty Senate meeting the tape was “very professional.”
He said that, while he would not recall the tape from any of the 400 Michigan high schools that already
have received it, he would not send it to any more schools.

Light Continued from Page 1
took responsibility for the project and encouraged campus-wide involvement. Using Time and Sports Illustrated magazines, the Davidson students hope to
spark their seventh to ninth grade learners with a love for learning. Faye Grasty, agency coordinator and liaison for Davidson
volunteers, said Davidson students have become powerful role models for the teenagers they tutor. “Obviously they have had an influence
on the reading scores,” she said. “But going a step beyond that, they’ve also had an influence through the relationships
they’ve formed with the students.” Volunteer tutor Jennifer Desai Wins McGrady said she wanted to help with this particular project
because it promised one-on-one contact with an adolescent student. “The good thing about this program is that it gives you
a chance to build a good relationship with a student,” McGrady said. “Some of them aren’t involved because they can’t
read well, but because they are at risk of dropping out because of other problems. It helps them to have
a friend to provide encouragement.”and support,” she said. “There are a lot of service programs where you don’t get to
know the person you are helping, but this program is good because you can look at your learners at the
beginning and at the end and see how they’ve progressed.” Davidson College service coordinator Beth Duttera is delighted with the
recognition that the presidential award brings to students like McGrady. “Everybody is talking about the state of education,” she said,
“What seems to be working is people from the outside taking an interest.”

“Learning to read better could give these students the power to change their lives,” Duttera said. “There’s only so much
we can ask the schools to do, and then we have to be willing to help out ourselves.” Anyone can
become a Time to Read tutor with Cities in Schools. For more information, contact Cynthia Marshall at 335-0601. This article
appears courtesy of College Relations.

11th Hour Spelling Bee
By Trent Stevens

For those Davidson College students with the prerequisite ability, a spelling bee was held in the Union’s Morrison Room last
Thursday morning. The bee, which was organized by senior Melissa Garner, held a preliminary round on Wednesday night. The words
that the spellers tackled were given by Professor J. Gill Holland.

“I was really surprised to win it,” related sophomore Bina Desai, who won the first prize of 50 dollars for
her efforts. She won the competition with the words “slumgullion” and “traduce.” Senior Steve Libby, who tripped up on “slumgullion,”
won the second prize of 25 dollars. “Luck played a much more decisive role than skill in the competition,” said
Libby.

Caribbean Writer Flanagan Reads at Davidson
By Hilary Coman

Caribbean novelist Brenda Flanagan entertained Davidson professors and students alike with readings from her new novel and older works on
the evening of Wednesday, February 27. Ms. Flanagan, a native of Trinidad and currently professor of Caribbean literature and creative
writing at Eastern Michigan University, came to Davidson College at the invitation of Dr. Yoder.

Ms. Flanagan read primarily from her novel, You Alone Are Dancing. The novel is set on the fictitious Caribbean island
of Santa Bella, its narrator a native of the island. The author stressed her insistence on having a novel about
the Caribbean where the protagonist does not leave, as is common in many Caribbean novels. Ms. Flanagan also read some
works of poetry which were published in the poetry journal Calaban. Both readings were especially effective, as Ms. Flanagan read
aloud with a varying native accent, and her impression of calypso excelled.

On creative writing in general, she had many insightful comments. She stressed that although the author begins the story, the
characters soon are their own: “They tell you almost what to do.” She confessed that she often does not know
the outcome of the story. The future of this “Caribbean novelist,” as she was advertised on campus before her reading,
is much more diverse than the label would imply. She informed her audience of the publication of a book of
short stories, You Alone Are Beating, next year. She also has ideas for another book of short stories which would
center on young women from around the world who come to the U.S. and become domestics. This second book is
a departure from Ms. Flanagan’s usual mode, but she seems to embrace it enthusiastically.

If you thought that finding a color system you could afford was a dream, your dream has come true with
the Macintosh LC. Unlike other systems that can only display 16 colors at once, the Macintosh LC can display up
to 256 colors. It also comes with a microphone and new sound input technology that lets you personalize your work
by adding voice or other sounds. Like every Macintosh computer, the LC is easy to set up and easy to
master. And it runs thousands of available applications that all work in the same, consistent way—so once you’ve learned one
program, you’re well on your way to learning them all. The Macintosh LC even lets you share information with someone
who uses a different type of computer—thanks to the versatile SuperDrive, which can read from and write to Macintosh, MS-DOS,
OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks. Take a look at the Macintosh LC and see what it gives you. Then
pinch yourself. It’s better than a dream—it’s a Macintosh. For further information, contact Ellen Morrissey at Ext. 2432.
