4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Lindsay Continued from page 1.

to knock the leukemia into a permanent remission. It also caused much nausea, baldness, and a forty-five pound weight gain. At the end of this five-month period, I hardly recognized my own reflection in the mirror. Thankfully, at the end of this treatment, my doctor felt I was able to try and get back to reestablishing my life.

For the next seven months, from May until December, I took mercaptopurine pills every day, as well as having a weekly blood test and an injection of methotrexate. I began a rigorous workout/diet regimen and took a summer job in the mountains at a restaurant. My summer turned out to be great: I lost the excess thirty-five pounds, I got back into decent condition through playing tennis and basketball regularly, girls re-entered my social life and things seemed to be restored to normal. At the end of August, I looked ahead to my freshman year at Davidson College with high expectations.

My fall semester was likely very similar to any other freshman’s first dose of college life. I struggled through the delightful “reviews” in my classes; I reveled in the variety of ways to spend a weekend creatively and at the same time—I felt I had become a part of the campus community. Once again it seemed that all was right in the world.

Well, the month of December rolled around. It was about ten days before exams were to begin. Sunday evening I helped lead my freshman hall basketball team to our first I.M.A.C. victory. The next day I went to Charlotte for my monthly bone marrow aspiration. After the test I returned to school and went about my daily routine totally oblivious to what lay in store for me.

The next day, I felt as if once again the rug had been pulled out from under me. The doctor called with the grim news that the cancer had reappeared in my blood. I remember wondering, as I headed to my car in the Belk parking lot that afternoon, when the next time I would be at school. As it would turn out, the next time that I would set foot on campus would be months later.

My doctor said that at this point, to continue to treat the disease with chemotherapy would not be the best option. Instead, he recommended that we pursue having a bone marrow transplant. I remember thinking that this sounded like a drastic and radical procedure, and in many ways, it certainly was. To have a bone marrow transplant one must have a donor that, genetically, is practically identical in every way to you. Statistics that were offered were less-than-thrilling—only one out of four people have a genetic “match” within their family. Due to the currently limited bone marrow registry, the odds of finding a “match” in the general population is a one-in-twenty thousand proposition. Not exactly the type of odds on which you'd place a huge wager.

Later that week, tests proved that, miraculously, God had provided me a genetically identical match, in the form of my beloved younger sister, Lee. I knew that the road ahead was paved with extremely daunting physical and emotional obstacles, but I felt assured that this was one battle that David Lindsay was going to win.

I remember that several weeks later, I was sitting in the medical center with a twelve-year-old friend of mine, Jason, who was in need of a bone marrow donation. I'll never forget my encouraging assurances to him that, “Don’t worry, I’m sure that they’ll find you a ‘match’.” The look of hope in his eyes is one that I’ll likely never forget.

When I returned at the end of April from my grueling transplant experience, I began...my monthly check-ups. A mere two weeks after my return, I entered the office and asked how Jason was doing in finding a match. I felt my heart drop when the oncology nurse looked at me and gently said, “I’m sorry, but Jason died early this morning.” It truly can be said in his case, “...only the good die young...”

International News
By Caroline Williamson and Sarah Faulkner

Partially as a result of the unsuccessful coup attempt of August 18-21, 1991, the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has dissolved. In its place is a new Union of Sovereign States, a loose confederation of 10 republics. Under President Mikhail Gorbachev’s leadership, the Congress of Peoples Deputies (CPD), in a heated and lengthy debate, dissolved itself and formed a new government. The two-tiered parliament consists of a State Council, which is comprised of Gorbachev and leaders of the participating republics, and a weaker body, which is elected from the former Congress of Peoples Deputies and the Supreme Soviet. The Baltic Republics of Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia, as well as Georgia and Moldavia, opted not to participate in this new plan.

Before dissolving itself, the CPD also decreed a declaration of human rights that is based on equality, privacy, freedom of speech, religion, and the free choice of work. In advocating the establishment of the new government, Vladimir Samarin, a delegate to the CPD, stated, “We must not think only of our own dignity, we must think of the public’s dignity and how the people must survive.”

ISRAEL: Israeli Prime Minister Shamir requested $10 billion in loan guarantees from the United States in order to accommodate the large number of Soviet Jews immigrating to Israel. However, the United States, in light of already high levels of aid to Israel and the upcoming Arab-Israeli peace talks, postponed consideration of this proposal. President Bush wants Shamir, in return for the aid, to stop Israeli settlements in the occupied territories and hold peace talks if he is not granted this “humanitarian” aid.

The purpose of our registry drive is to make it possible for all the “Jasons” in the world to have hope for a cure, and so that more people can relish in the same wonderful gift that I have received.

©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.

SAVINGS WORTH CHEERING ABOUT FROM DOMINO'S PIZZA.

Call Us! 896-8007
Hours: 11am-12am Mon-Thurs.
11am-1am Fri. & Sat.
12pm-12am Sun.

©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
Shops on the Green

Buy Any Large Pizza For The Price Of A Small With One Topping For $5.00 tax included
Offer Expires: September 30, 1991
10:00pm - midnight only
Limited time only.
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.
THE EDUCATIONAL CENTER
CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.
LSAT * GMAT * GRE * MCAT

The Best Haircut in Town
Serving Davidson College for more than 7 years
Hair World (704) 892-1332
SUITE #3
19900 S. MAIN ST.
CORNELIUS, NC 28031
OWNER/STYLIST DIANE UMBARGER
Cash value 1/20¢
Great Location