12 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING Monday, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

Spending The Day With Writer Margaret Atwood
By Jennifer Sieck

I had the great privilege on Monday, February 18 to spend several hours with Margaret Atwood. I ate lunch with
her, listened to her speak in the afternoon at the 900 Room during an informal question and answer session, and
attended her reading in the evening at Love Auditorium. I enjoyed my day thoroughly. She told great stories, most of
which were very funny.

At lunch, one of her first stories was about a college roommate at Harvard who had a pet iguana. Mid-year,
her roommate left to cohabitate with her boyfriend, leaving the iguana with Atwood. The iguana lived quite happily in the
closet on a diet of lettuce. However, sometimes when Atwood let the iguana out, it went under the bed which
was bolted to the floor and Atwood could not reach it. This was a problem as an elderly woman with
a heart condition swept the room each day. Atwood said she was afraid the woman would literally die if she
saw a creature looking half-dragon, half-lizard under the bed. So, Atwood made a sculpture of herself and put it in
bed if she wasn’t in the room and the iguana was under the bed, along with a sign saying “Do
Not Disturb.” This tale led to others recounted by students as well as Atwood about iguanas, other dangerous dorm pets,
and eventually onto different and various subjects.

An anecdote of a more serious tone resulted from a question a student once asked Atwood, which was, “Should I
go out and suffer so that I can become a good writer?” Her reply to the student was: “Don’t worry—you
will suffer. You don’t have to go out and look for suffering; it will come to you.”

I think that all of Atwood’s audiences on Monday were at ease with her. She told the people gathered in
the 900 Room that she understood that they were supposed to ask her questions and so to do just that.
You are the ones doing the work, she said, not me. She spoke directly, yet with an unpretentious eloquence. Addressing
diverse topics ranging from specific questions about her works to her perspective on the Gulf War to growing up in
the fifties to distinctions between Canada and the United States, she was accessible and interesting to her listeners.

Paul Simon Tour Stops In North Carolina
By Tom Koonce

From his days with partner Art Garfunkel, Paul Simon has made legions of fans while having numerous hit songs. Now,
touring after the release of his “Rhythm of the Saints” album under the ‘Born at the Right Time’ tour, Simon
has added another generation to his list of followers. The tour stopped at the Smith Center in Chapel Hill on
an early February Sunday night. The crowd who gathered for this concert ranged from college and high school students to
adults in their forties or fifties.

The concert started with the Brazilian beat of “The Obvious Child” off of his new album. This was followed by
the African rhythm of “The Boy in the Bubble” off of “Graceland.” These rhythms were heard throughout the night, with
the Brazilian beat evident in almost every song. Simon had over seventeen people in his band, most of them musicians
from Brazil and Africa. This Brazilian musical sound led Simon to completely redo some of his older songs such as
“Cecilia” and “Kodachrome.” This approach was done really well and gave these songs a fresh new twist.

This concert did not have any spectacular stage or any special effects. It was all music. Simon went back and
forth through time, playing old songs such as “Bridge Over Troubled Water” and “Still Crazy After All These Years” and
then going to his recent albums with songs such as “I Know What I Know,” “Graceland,” and “Born at the
Right Time.” Since many in the audience were past their college concert-going days, much of the crowd remained seated for
the night, except for two sections by the side of the stage which danced to every song. Simon decided to
dedicate a song to these dancers, and it was the right choice. As soon as the first chordsof “You Can
Call Me Al” were played, the whole coliseum crowd jumped to their feet. Noticing the enthusiasm, Simon decided to repeat
the same song over again, to the ultimate approval of everyone in the audience. After playing the African beat of
“Diamonds on the Soles of Her Shoes,” which had a great gospel touch of three background singers, most of the
last songs of the night were done by Simon and only a few other musicians. These included old favorites such
as “The Boxer,” “American Tune,” and “Hearts and Bones.” These songs were not heavily influenced by any African or Brazilian
rhythm. Simon simply sang them as he has all these years, and the effect was not lost at this concert
as the crowd was extremely quiet, obviously captivated by his moving vocals. Simon closed the night with the predictable “Sound
of Silence.” This song was as touching as ever and it was an excellent ending to an already exceptional concert.
Watching Paul Simon alone on the stage taking bows at the conclusion, one could easily realize that they had just
seen the performance of a true legend, who is not near the end of his musical career.

On the Gulf War to growing up in the fifties to distinctions between Canada and the United States, she was
accessible and interesting to her listeners. As I read back over a piece that she read, “What Is a Woman’s
Novel?”, my appreciation for the text was missing a dimension not hearing it, especially after having heard it read by
Atwood herself. Atwood commented that writing should be as much or more for the listener as for the reader, comparing
a text to musical notes on a page. Writing, like music, she believes, cannot be fully realized until heard. Atwood’s
reading exemplified her philosophy. I laughed again as I read, remembering Atwood’s pace and inflection. I could continue, as over
and over during the day I laughed, contemplated, was delighted, and learned much from Margaret Atwood. I owe Atwood’s daughter
special thanks because her decision to remain in Charlotte instead of coming to Davidson enabled me to have lunch with
Atwood. I look forward to reading more of Atwood’s works, with changed eyes and ears.

YSSC NEWS
By Beth Mitchell and Caroline Nelson

This week the YSSC spotlight is on the Senior Citizen Friendship Program and the Florence Crittendon Home.

Senior Citizen Friendship Program

The Friendship program pairs students and seniors from the Davidson community and brings them together to “bridge the generation gap.”
The students are encouraged to take advantage of their friendship—to have someone to care about you and someone just to
have some “quality time” with. The seniors gain also, by having someone concerned about them and committed to developing a
one-on-one relationship. However, the main emphasis is on fun!!

The coordinators arrange about five group socials for each service year for the Friendship program; usually there is a welcome
back party, the annual pumpkin carving party, a Christmas party, a Valentine’s party, and a final spring get-together. Everyone comes
together for a great time, and for a while you can forget about all the stuff you have to do.
The other time commitment is up to the student and his/her senior(s). But what you get out of the relationship
will depend on how much of yourself you are willing to commit. This program is a wonderful way to make
a difference in someone’s life. If you would like to get involved, get in touch with Susan McDonald at 896-7254
(off-campus) or me at 6011. We'll be glad to help you “lend a hand”!

Florence Crittendon Home

Florence Crittendon is a home for pregnant women between the ages of eleven and forty. Girls sixteen and under are
required to attend school by North Carolina law. The residents of Florence Crittendon attend school within the Home, and Davidson
women tutor them on Thursdays from 7-8:30 p.m. We supervise a study hall, tutor the residents when they need help,
and spend time just talking with them. We also plan holiday parties like pumpkin carving and cookie decorating. The time
commitment is not huge, but the rewards are. If you are interested in tutoring, please call Stephanie Glaser at 6533.

Write for Features. Or Maybe Not. Call May Martin or Jennifer Sieck. Dial 2140. A Deskworker will give you their
number.
