The Davidsonian

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

ANDREW SPAINHOUR - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager

OUR COMRADE WAS | OR MAYBE MUMPS | OR MORNING VERG ILL. IT MUST'VE OR et yaad POX BEENA HEART
, OR THE ATTACK, - y | aa ©1P2/ DAYTON DAL LH AYEUS- UNTEDFEATULE SY.

Letters

BREATH 0 POSTPARTOM DEPRESSION OR MALE-PA BALDNESS OB.

DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

A Wise Choice

Last Monday, August 26, Dean of Students Will Terry, in coordination with the Council on Campus and Religious Life, declared
that freshmen will no longer be allowed to attend parties on upperclassman halls, the senior apartments, or at student houses
off campus. Several students, both freshmen and upperclassmen, have claimed the mandate is unfair, poorly thought out, and encourages the
development of a divided student body. Such claims are erroneous and suggest that the students misunderstand both the letter and
spirit of the rule. A little history will hopefully prove enlightening.

In the fall of 1986, when the class of 1990 arrived to embark upon the Davidson experience, the college experimented
with a new rule barring freshmen from Patterson Court activities for the first several weeks of the term. One of
many reasons for this was the dismal academic performance of the class of 1989 during their first term the year
before. The thinking behind the new rule was that freshmen need time to adjust to Davidson life before they participate
in Patterson Court. Such an assumption is correct. Freshmen have enough to worry about with academics, hall life, members of
the opposite sex, et cetera, without concerning themselves with Patterson Court, specifically with the fraternity rushing that takes place there.

The fraternities, however, were undaunted by the new rule. While following the letter of the ordinance by not entertaining freshmen
on Patterson Court, they began holding parties in the residence halls and off campus, thereby completely circumventing the spirit behind
the rule. Freshmen were just as exposed to alcohol and the pressures of rush in the center halls of Belk
as the classes before them had been on Patterson Court. The only change that took place was one of venue.
With this week's

To the Editor:

Kevin, Mike, Chance, and I sit in my room trying to decide what to do this weekend. We cannot go
to Thompson Street or the senior apartments because of a new order given by Dean Terry. In a memorandum today
the Dean has made the following statement: Upperclassmen will not entertain freshmen on or off campus and freshmen are not
to attend upperclassmen parties until September 20. Failure to abide by this agreement may forfeit a freshman’s ability to participate
in Patterson Court. If an infraction occurs by a member of a Patterson Court house the house may forfeit its
participation in Patterson Court activities. The freshman penalty will be dealt with by the Dean of Students; the house violation
will be dealt with by the presidents of Patterson Court houses. This regulation is effective immediately.

Yes, with one swift stroke of a pen the Dean saved the freshmen from the dangers of alcohol. But has
the Dean really solved the problem, or has he simply created more problems? As a hall counselor explained, the decision
was made to stop the abuse of alcohol and to convince the freshmen to concentrate on studying instead of partying.
To say the least the freshmen are not happy with the new regulation. The problem of freshmen alcohol abuse does
not lie in the hands of the upperclassmen. Any freshman can get alcohol if he wants it. The upperclassmen do
not force freshmen to drink. Yes, the upperclassmen do provide the opportunity to drink, but in today’s society the opportunity
to consume alcohol is everywhere. Freshmen drink because they want to and because they are perfectly capable of making their
own decisions.

If anything this command will infuriate the freshmen so that they strike back against the new system. For instance, all
the freshmen I talked with are going off campus to the Korner Pub to drink tonight. Is this the solution
the Dean created? Is he condoning drinking and driving, or is he going to simply pretend that it is not
going to happen? In addition to not listening to the cry of the masses, the Dean will not even listen
to himself. At a speech during orientation the Dean said, “Davidson does not have a dry campus because it would
only move parties off campus and encourage students to drink alone in their rooms.” I agree with that statement but
obviously the Dean is too hard-headed to listen to himself. Yes, the regulation has encouraged drinking alone. WhenI read the
ultimatum, I proceeded to go to my room, close the door and drink a beer. This decision was supposedly made
by the presidents of Patterson Court houses. But as a hall counselor said, “It was pretty much a done deal
even before the meeting.” I thought the Dean represented the students but I suppose I was wrong. Thank you, Dean
Terry, and I pray that between now and September 20, no one is injured or killed because of your decision.

Sincerely,
TOM NORWOOD, '95

Expansion of the rule, the houses on Patterson Court must finally act upon the principle that was first espoused five
years ago: that freshmen should have time to adjust to Davidson before being sucked into rush. Upperclassmen and freshmen alike
have dramatically misinterpreted the rule to mean that freshmen and upperclassmen are not to associate with one another at all.
They complain that such a ruling divides the campus and isolates the freshman class. The rule is in place not
to completely separate freshmen from the rest of the college, but to ensure that they are incorporated into the community
at large before they are encouraged to join one particular sect.

Another argument is that freshmen will now frequent such establishments as The Korner Pub, The Par Four, and other bars.
They claim that they are being forced off campus to drink. They claim they are old enough and responsible enough
to drink wisely, and should not be restricted. Strangely, however, these same freshmen also claim that Dean Terry should accept
the blame for any drinking and driving accidents which might take place. It seems that these responsible, intelligent drinkers who
are mature enough to make their own decisions can’t quite handle the idea of a designated driver.

There will be plenty of time after September 20 for the freshmen to get acquainted with Patterson Court. The fraternities
and eating houses will still be there, as will the beer. The new rule is a reasonable and necessary measure
which will improve the quality of the freshman experience at Davidson. The CCRL and the Dean of Students Office have
made a wise choice.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor:

During my three years at Davidson, Patterson Court has afforded me countless rewarding social opportunities. (I know what you are
thinking but let me assure you that I am completely in earnest). Davidson’s fraternity system, relative to those of other
colleges and universities, is an enlightened and positive institution. I cannot help but reflect, however, upon the sore lack of
social opportunity for those who choose not to participate in the Greek system. Of course, one of our fraternity system’s
strongest merits is that all parties are open to the entire student body. This is a tenet for which we
have Dean Terry to thank. Clearly though, there is an unwritten rule which all but prohibits non-members from attending such
fraternity events as Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics gatherings. Now, any red-blooded Davidson student is apt to tell you that
these are among the most exciting weekends of the year. My question is, what are independents to do at such
times?

Not to deny credit where it is due, the union does make some effort during these weekends (Spring Frolics in
particular) which fills a portion of the social void. These union-organized events, however, tend to isolate independents, (I have attended
several of them and I assure you that fraternity members are scarce), and are generally not smashingly successful. Of course,
the union is not to blame for this. It can, however, do some things to improve the situation. What I
propose is that the union become more involved in Davidson’s social realm, not merely on these weekends but year-round. Provide
more live entertainment in the 900 room; have more cookouts and festivals on the football field; publicize social events to
arouse interest on the campus; hold more fundraisers and sales to aid in the financing of new activities. None of
these projects are terribly ambitious, all have been done before, and none would require unreasonable effort.

The fraternity system has been not only the center but the overwhelming dominator of social life at Davidson for some
time. Involvement by another party would add diversity to the system, provide greater social opportunity, and alleviate much of the
pressure concerning alcohol policy and liability now being exerted on Patterson Court. See your union board representative today!

Sincerely,
MAX HENDRIX, ‘92
