THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

University of Florida Police Increase Patrols

GAINESVILLE, FL. - Hoping to protect students who may be less careful about their own security as they return to school the week of January 7, Gainesville police announced they will increase security patrols in and around the University of Florida campus. It was in August, at the start of last semester, that five students were slain in off-campus apartments. At the same time, city officials lobbied in Washington, D.C. for help in paying for the estimated $3 million six police agencies have spent in chasing more than 5,500 leads in the still-unsolved murder cases.

Student Alcohol Use Rises Nationwide

Nearly all first-year collegians drink heavily, and frequently “binge” on five or more drinks at one sitting at least once every other week, a new study by Harvard’s School of Public Health contends. The study of 1,669 students also found they used less marijuana, cocaine, and tobacco than first-year students interviewed in a similar 1977 study.

Campuses Start To Unveil Tuition Hikes

Officials at several colleges during the holiday season, when campuses were virtually depopulated. At Peninsula College in Port Angeles, Washington, President Paul Cornaby announced tuition next fall would rise by 9 percent for in-state students. On December 11, Seattle Pacific University announced a price hike of 7 percent, “which administrators forecast to be lower than the increase in the 1990 Consumer Price Index (CPI).” The CPI, however, rose by less than 5 percent in 1990. A surprise mid-year tuition hike of $300, however, prompted about 20 City University of New York students to sit-in at a campus library December 20.

Young Americans

A majority of Americans aged 16-to-24 favor the death penalty, random drug testing, and keeping marijuana illegal, a new Gallup Poll conducted by Fuji Photo Film, U.S.A., Inc. showed. Forty-nine percent of 1,003 people surveyed described themselves as politically conservative, while 39 percent called themselves liberal. Some 31 percent of the respondents supported reinstating a military draft of young people during the Persian Gulf crisis. Source: College Press Service.

HIV Rate of 1 in 500

Associated Press

BOSTON - About one in 500 U.S. college students is infected with the AIDS virus, and further spread of the disease is likely on campuses unless students change their sexual habits, according to the Federal Centers for Disease Control. “Risky behaviors are occurring, and now we know we have the infection,” said Dr. Helene D. Gayle, who directed the study. “It is cause for concern and appropriate attention.” The CDC study is the first nationwide attempt to judge the presence of HIV on college campuses, said coauthor Dr. Richard P. Keeling of the American College Health Association. It shows that the virus probably is about as common there as in the public at large. However, the researchers cautioned that AIDS still could spread dramatically among college students, just as some other sexually transmitted diseases have done.

Vigil Continued from Page 1

...say things that they would not ordinarily say.” “I realize that peace really begins with each individual,” said Yoder. “I think probably the most important thing from this study is that it shows us the potential,” said Keeling, who also runs the student health service at the University of Virginia. “The combination of a sexually transmitted disease tossed into campus behavior has the potential for very serious consequences in the future. It also shows us we have an opportunity to prevent that.” The study was based on random testing of blood samples drawn from 16,863 students at 19 schools, most of them large state universities. The study found that 30 students, or two-tenths of one percent of the students, were infected with the virus. At 10 of the 19 campuses, the survey found no AIDS infections. This survey, published in Thursday’s New England Journal of Medicine, also found that students over age 24 were seven times more likely than younger students to be infected. The next vigil will be a candlelight vigil on Tuesday, January 15 (the U.N. deadline for Iraq’s withdrawal from Kuwait) at 5:15 P.M. in front of the Chambers building.

Faculty Members McMillen and Abbott Receive Honors

By Keri Slater

Davidson Professors Sally McMillen of the History department, and Anthony Abbott, chairman of the English department, have recently received honors for their respective work. The National Endowment for the Humanities awarded Dr. McMillen a fellowship for teachers. She won the grant on the basis of her application in which she described her interest in the...Sunday School movement in the New South (1870-1920). She plans to research this area as a means of understanding how children of that period were socialized. McMillen will travel to libraries throughout the South to study Baptist, Methodist, and Presbyterian churches. She will concentrate on how Sunday Schools affected the socialization of southern people, specifically habits such as drinking and work ethics. Also, she wants to include black Sunday Schools in her research. She feels that “churches took on the role to regenerate the South.” McMillen plans to incorporate the research obtained during this year-long sabbatical in a book about this topic. She says she will miss teaching but will be back next year.

Abbott was awarded the Sam Reagan prize for his poetry.

Colleges Aren't As Involved In Foreign Study As They Want To Be
College Press Service

Most colleges aren’t as involved in international programs as they think they should be, says a Penn State survey released in December. The survey found a tremendous surge in campus interest in starting international continuing higher education programs, said Shirley Hendrick, a dean of education with Penn State’s Smeal College of Business Administration. “This is especially true among institutions with very little experience,” she said. “They want to do more.” Of the 133 members of the Association of Continuing Higher Education that responded, 67 percent were interested in offering or expanding their foreign study programs. Only 19 of the 74 universities that already offer programs said they were as involved in international efforts as they should be.

Scores of campuses report student interest in foreign study is mushrooming. At George Washington University, for example, 294 students studied abroad during the 1989-90 school year, up 43 percent from the previous year. “A major objective of all higher education is to help students operate more effectively in an increasingly international and multicultural world,” says Maurice East, head of GW’s foreign study program. “Study abroad is one of the best ways to give people first-hand exposure.” Student participation in Lehigh University’s Center for International Studies has increased more than 30 percent since it was established two years ago. In Pennsylvania, 109 of Allegheny College’s 1,850 students—almost 6 percent of the campus population—will spend all or part of the current academic year studying overseas, more than twice the number who studied abroad in any of the past 10 years.

Partington Continued from Page 2

Partington. “This all comes pretty much from the philosophy of non-violence that comes from the Christian tradition.” The demonstration occurred when the three men jumped the ropes near the Pennsylvania Ave. exit and executed a pre-conceived demonstration plan. The plan was to jump the White House ropes and pray for peace on the White House lawn. Partington threw 93 copies of the anti-war poem “Dulce Et Decorum Est” representing the 93 servicemen that have already died in recent Persian Gulf maneuvers. Hite ran across the lawn and was tackled by two Secret Service men in pursuit. Hite was also charged with assault by the Secret Service men, but the charge was later dropped. The three men will appear in court on Jan. 30 for a status hearing where either the charges will be dropped or a future trial date will be established. Partington faces up to six months in jail but believes it is likely that he will be faced with only several hours of community service. A prospect that Partington wouldn’t mind. Partington is a member of the Community of Creative Non-violence that is primarily involved with helping the homeless in the Washington area. “The ideal thing would be for me to do community service in the shelter in which I already work,” said Partington. The Community of Creative Non-violence was established in 1970 as a protest to the Vietnam War. During peacetime, the Washington-based group concentrates primarily on the nation’s homeless problem. The center has organized several other demonstrations. Members have handcuffed themselves to the White House fence, poured blood on their bodies, and blocked Pennsylvania Ave. with oil drums. “This Middle-East problem is an Arab problem,” said Partington. “The United States is too arrogant thinking they are the world police. War is not the answer.”

Free Lecture!

Dr. Andrew Jameton, Chair of the Department of Preventive and Societal Medicine at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, will speak on "Culture, Medicine, Ethics: Integrations and Underpinnings." January 16, 4:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. All Are Welcome, Please Come! Our goal is to make ourselves and will be co-sponsored by the Friends and the Political Action Group.