THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

On The Objectification of Women in Advertising
By Gail Ruff

The film "Still Killing Us Softly" by Jean Kilbourne, shown as part of National Women’s History Month, brought to light
the important problem of sexism in advertising. Sponsored by The Committee for Women’s Issues, the film addressed problems of the
portrayal of women in advertising. These problems affect each of us every day, shaping the way that women view themselves,
the way that men view women, and the way that women are treated in day-to-day life.

A central problem in advertising is that women in advertisements are usually beautiful, white, and thin. This creates a stereotype
saying that all women must be beautiful, white, and thin to be considered valuable and to be socially accepted. With
women in advertising looking like sticks, it is hard for the average woman to be proud of her body. Ads
tell women that in order for them to be considered attractive, they need to be extremely skinny. This is not
only unrealistic—it is very unhealthy. One out of every five female college-aged students has some sort of eating disorder. Most
of these women are not actually overweight, though they consider themselves to be so.

Perhaps the worst problem of the portrayal of women in advertising is that advertising makes women into objects. In many
ads, only specific parts of a woman’s body are shown, such as the buttocks, the legs, or the face. This
dissection of the body further leads to the objectification of women. The message being presented is that women are only
valuable for their body parts. If a woman becomes an object, then she cannot be viewed as a valuable human
being. It is this objectification of women that leads to the devaluation of women and to violence against women. If
a human being is portrayed as an object, then violence against them is more easily justified. Violence against things is
not considered as bad as violence against a specific person with a name and a personality.

Violence against women is also trivialized in advertising. One ad showed the stationary body of an obviously battered woman with
a new shoe on the ground beside her. The ad stated that X brand of shoes can take a beating.
The woman who had been wearing the shoe obviously could not. Battering is portrayed as a joke, rather than the
very serious issue that it is. When sexuality is associated with violence, the implication is that women are sex objects
that are dispensable and unimportant. This leads to the myth that women actually want to be beaten, which leads to
problems such as...

Fun With Our Heads And Sharp Objects.

Ah, spring is in the air. Flowers are blooming, trees are budding, birds are singing, and Davidson’s above-average students are
starting to frolic in pairs once again as they begin to feel the sap rising within their well-exercised bodies. Well...
at least the trees are budding.

But the trees aren’t the only thing that budded over the break. The discerning student has probably noted that several
pairs of broad, masculine shoulders on campus have lately been adorned with shorn heads. Be it fuzzy, bristly, or just
plain bald, the “skint” head seems to be the hot doo for the season. This fresh, daring approach to coiffurature
may just be one that’s going to last. Contrast the shorn head to this past winter’s quick-dying fad, facial hair.
The new doo has innumerable advantages over the unsightly beard. Please indulge me while I reveal just a few of
these to the bright readers that have an eye for both fashion and utility. We'll call this list the “TOP
10 REASONS TO SHAVE YOUR HEAD.” Here goes:

1) Food gets trapped in even the most well-kept beard, making for an embarrassing night on the court, depending on
one’s choice of cuisine. But nary a scrap will linger on your “no-stick” bald head.
2) Originality. While several beard patterns are out on the market, they all begin to look similar. Imagine your humiliation
on appearing at a formal dance and finding that some poser has the same beard you do. Not a problem
with a shaved head, as no two people in the world have the same skull shape.
3) Equity. Most fashions are exclusive and therefore unfair. Just as many people cannot afford a sporty new Beemer, there
are a number of unfortunates who cannot grow facial hair. But the shaved head is a fashion that can be
enjoyed by both the haves and the have-nots.
4) Maintenance. Gone are the days...as rape and woman battering. Violence against women is a severe problem in our culture
and before it can be completely wiped out, the glamorization of it must cease. It is important to realize that
advertising does not necessarily cause the problems faced by women in our society. It does, however, directly contribute to these
problems. Advertising plays a critical role in the way that women and their bodies are viewed by society as a
whole. Women must learn to have positive images of themselves as valuable human beings. This is hard with constant adverse
bombardment from the media. To stop the cycle of advertisers’ dictation of what women should be, women need to divorce
themselves from these images. We must educate ourselves about sexist advertising and then refuse to buy the products advertised in
a sexist way. The solution will not be simple, but it can begin immediately with the refusal to buy magazines
that perpetuate stereotypes of women, the refusal to purchase needless cosmetic items, and avoidance of any products advertised in a
way that glorifies violence against women or that contributes to the objectification of women. There is no reason for women
to believe the things that we are being told by advertisers, and as soon as we realize that these images
are wrong, we can become closer to freedom from the damaging stereotypes.

Gail Ruff is a junior English major from Madison, FL

Davidsonian is react, can’t think of original, issues which mean son usto bid tould Orisi itb 1 Where erect may
be, I guess I can understand it when people write articles like “A Swift Kick in the Backside” and “Give
ae ming is asain pl pes Te about attending a school of hawks. As odd as it may an I
am less offended by Misters McLaughlin and Kinner’s article their barbaric views with Howell and Patton (referred to as Mr.
HP from nena) aie ts to be Wat A Chance.” Such articles not only offend me as an Arab American.
WAKE UP!! Bete the toric which the United Front of E lege Kids, are going De support of the father
told me the expressing his shock ticles, if they want t tell them to prevent of washing, conditioning, drying, curling,
brushing, moussing, etc. Your shorn head will look just as good when you wake up after a long night of
partying as it did for that important job interview. 5) Public sentiment. With the recent success of the American military
machine, the USMC-style doo is a definite winner. For those of you that still have facial hair, remember that so
does the Evil. Saddam. 6) Sinead O’Connor. This Irish folksinger with her soul-searching lyrics has made it clear to the
world that sensitive people can be skinheads, too. 7) Michael Jordan. Everyone’s favorite high-flyin’ hoopster shows us over and over
again how lower-

See "Razor" on page 8

DEPTH, RELEVANCE!

Just a By David Scott

According to the most recent cover of TIME magazine the American consciousness has been engulfed by simplicity. Yuppies have finally
succumbed as a race and Beemers are boring. The “Power Lunch” seems sort of silly and, officially speaking, The Simple
Life is in. Davidson seniors particularly stand to benefit from this development. For one thing, jobs are passé. Unless you
plan to earn your keep crushing apples in a Vermont cider mill or fondling a milk cow, bag it. More
than likely any occupation you find will only dull your sense of enviro-spiritual symbiosis with all that IS, or at
least cramp your style. So, as Mr. Rogers might put it, “Can you say ‘Hallelujah’ boys and girls? I knew
you could.” TIME also noted an evolving sense of enlightened materialism in American culture. Cool people now use extremely obsolete
objects. Foam and twin blades have been edged out by the straight razor and shaving brush, progressive individuals can be
pinpointed by their ancient, old-fashioned automobiles, and the makers of the “Wacky Wall Walker” have replaced the beloved octopus with
a more family-oriented figurine. “It’s the face of the classic American grandmother,” stated a company spokesperson. “Sort of a combination
of Betsy Ross and Madonna. The hair sticks real good Simple Easter to clean windows.” Family values, marketing, grandmother. These
are the things that make America such a great place to live. My family tries to keep up with the
trends. We do our best. In fact, last weekend we planned a simple trip in our practical car to Grandmother’s
house (mine gets a capital “G”) for Easter. And we made it. Barely. Upon first hearing of our simple journey
I bemoaned, “Grandmother, I'm sorry. My school starts back on Monday, you see, and... well... I’m just not going to
be able to make it for the Easter meal.”

See “Easter” on page 8
