14 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

SPORTS

Bruce Balestier: 

2 ON THE SPORTS FRONT

You look at Head Soccer Coach Charlie Slagle on the sideline, and you have no idea that he’s an athletic Renaissance man. No, his athletic history at Davidson is as varied as his soccer program is successful. An All-State football player in high school, Slagle originally came to Davidson to play football under Dave Fagg (who was in his first go-round as coach), but after two years decided to play soccer, earning All-Southern Conference mention at goalkeeper. He would have played varsity tennis, but had to miss fall tryouts because of football and soccer. Instead, he played number one singles on the junior varsity for four years. He says that, in his four years at Davidson, he missed just five Wildcat basketball games, home or away, those owing to midweek trips to such far-off destinations as Pittsburgh and UCLA. He dipped into coaching with the advent of women’s basketball, as one of three students who ran the fledgling club team. Before graduating in 1975, he was awarded the Thomas Sparrow Award. Five years later, he was back, as soccer coach and assistant track coach. His track duties went by the boards when his appointment as interim baseball coach, supposedly just for the fall, stretched through the entire season. He coached the entire 44-game season without the benefit of a rainout, a notable statistic, Slagle says, because “we needed rainouts every time I was coaching baseball.” Later, he put in time as golf coach and as assistant sports information director. The constant, though, has been soccer. When Slagle arrived, the team had last had a winning record in Slagle’s senior season five years before. Immediately, though, Slagle turned the program’s fortunes around. He compiled a 9-8 record in his 1980 debut, and followed it up with 4 straight .500 or better seasons. Slagle’s program for improvement was three-pronged. First, he “tried to get the team playing smartly.” Second, he “went out after athletes,” rather than just soccer players. Third, he designed the most demanding schedules he could find. “I figured the best way to get quality records was to play quality teams,” he says. That plan for improvement has paid off with a program that is on the verge of classification as a national power. Last year’s 15-7-2 team ranked 21st in the nation at the end of the season, though it somehow did not receive an NCAA bid. This year’s squad, despite its difficult start (1-4-1 before Sunday’s game against College of Charleston), has proved that it can play with any team in the country. Coach Slagle says that “until we are known as a team that gets a bid every year, I have to play the toughest schedule I can every year.” He talks of being a perennial NCAA Tournament team with the confidence of someone who knows that the time is coming.

Men's Tennis Opens Season With Success

The Davidson men’s tennis team opened its fall season Saturday with an 8-4 defeat of William and Mary and a 7-1 rout of Wofford at the Wofford Fall Tennis Tournament in Spartanburg, S.C. Russell Briggs, Daniel Grinnan, Joey Manibo, Dave Tonidandel, and John Beyer each won two singles matches for the Wildcats. The doubles teams of Briggs/Dale Voeks, Albie Varoski/Tonidandel, and Grinnan/Ryan Harper all captured victories in the win over William and Mary.

SGA Athletics Council

The Athletics Council exists to provide a liaison between the Athletic Department and the student body. Last year, there was some controversy over the basketball ticket policy, and the Athletics Council would like to mediate between the students and the administration to provide a policy that is satisfactory.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

To all involved. The proposed basketball ticket policy for this year is as follows: the first two rows of seats could be picked up, as in the past, at the ticket window the day before the game, to allow diehard fans the opportunity for an early shot at the best seats. The rest of the seats would be claimed on a General Admission basis, first come-first served on the night of the game. Only an ID would be required for students to get into the game. Express your reaction to the proposed policy by contacting a member of the Athletics Council.

See an intense bear of a man, focused on the task at hand. But his coach in 1980, he found a program in disarray. He replaced Karl. 

Women's Cross Country Takes Second Place in Charleston
By Richard Wharton

Led by Kathy Beach’s 3rd place and Karen Marshall’s 4th place finish, the Davidson women’s cross-country team finished second at Saturday’s Charleston Southern Invitational in Summerville, S.C. Campbell won the race, a preview of the Big South Championship, with a total of 64 points; Davidson had 72 points. Beach, a senior captain, turned in a time of 19:03 over the 5K course, while Marshall finished a place behind her with a 19:28 performance. Freshman Elizabeth Bishop placed 11th with a time of 20:08. The Davidson men’s team finished fourth in the meet. Chris Otrok’s 9th place finish (26:41) and Jan Stewart’s 10th place (26:42) paced the Wildcats. Charleston Southern won the men’s race. Both teams race next at the Citadel Invitational October 5.

Women's Tennis Begins Season

The Davidson Women’s Tennis team kicked off its defense of the Big South Championship it won a year ago with several fine individual performances at the East Tennessee State Invitational at Johnson City, Tenn. While no team scores were tallied, the competition provided a taste of things to come for the team. Among the 8 singles and 4 doubles teams competing were future Southern Conference opponents Appalachian State, Western Carolina and ETSU, present Big South foes Winthrop and Radford, and top NAIA programs Elon and Transylvania. For Coach Caroline Brown-Price, the tournament primarily provided “lots of opportunities to develop skills” and allowed her to begin formulating her competitive ladder. The Wildcats were quite successful in Flight 1, where #1 singles player Cyndi Hess advanced to the quarterfinals before withdrawing with an injury, and #2 Kimberly Nance, a freshman, made it to the semifinals before bowing in 3 sets. Another freshman, Nicole Wilcox, Davidson’s #6 player, went all the way to win Flight 3. In Flight 4, senior Skye McLeod lost her first match but rebounded to win the consolation bracket. The ETSU Tournament was the first of six 3-day weekend tournaments the team will play during the 10-week fall season, with the lineup rotating from week to week. Coach Price looks at the season with a pitching coach’s mentality, using the tournaments as a gauge by which to put together her ladder for the real season this spring. The Wildcats returned to competition this weekend at the James Madison Tournament, where Maryland and Virginia of the ACC were headline teams.

Home Athletic Contests: Sept. 30--Oct. 14

Friday, Oct. 4
Women’s Soccer v. Arkansas 3:00 p.m.

Tuesday, Oct. 8
Women’s Soccer v. Charleston 4:00 p.m.

Wednesday, Oct. 9
Swimming and Diving v. UNCC 6:00 p.m.

Thursday, Oct. 10
Men’s Soccer v. N.C. State 7:00 p.m.
Volleyball v. UNC-Asheville 7:00 p.m.

Women’s Soccer: Davidson Invitational Tournament
Saturday, Oct. 12 v. Vanderbilt Noon
Sunday, Oct. 13 v. Butler 2:00 p.m.

Men’s Soccer: Charlie’s Invitational
Saturday, Oct. 12 v. Appalachian State 7:00 p.m.
Sunday, Oct. 13 v. UNCC 7:00 p.m.

---