THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, News Editor
SEAN LIND, Associate News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
DAVID THOMPSON, Associate Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN, Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER, Campus Living Editor
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

No Respect

Sadly, last Wednesday night Coach Bob McKillop broke tradition. He did not start seniors Darry Strickland and Turner Gilmore in their last home game. Although Darry played for several minutes in the final game against Campbell, Turner was given a measly 49 seconds on the court. How embarrassing.

Davidson prides itself in graduating 95% of its basketball players. Here, a basketball player is the true scholar-athlete, working diligently on the court and in the classroom. But aside from the heavy academic load at Davidson, Darry and Turner have experienced a particularly tumultuous four years in their basketball career: leaving the Southern Conference, playing as an independent, and a changeover of coaches. If Jerry Tarkanian of the University of Nevada at Las Vegas can start six seniors at their final home game and take a technical foul for such action, the least McKillop could have done was to play Darry and Turner for a ceremonial minute or two. He did not grant the respect both these individuals deserved. We expected better of him.

Farewell

This commentary marks the conclusion of an editorship that has witnessed debate on such issues as feminism, homosexuality, and the state of athletics. But beyond all the collegiate controversies, one event stands clear: the Persian Gulf War. Before the bombings began on January 17th, our generation was able to boast for two decades that it was free of war. Of course, there have been minor conflicts in the past, but nothing compares to what is happening now.

It was our hope that by the time we relinquished our reins of the paper the war would be swiftly over. That has not been the case. Last Saturday night President Bush announced that “the liberation of Kuwait had entered its final phase.” Now that the ground war has begun we can only pray for the safety of our troops. One reporter for the New York Times wrote before the war began, “Every generation is molded by its war.” We as students face the opportunity of being molded by the critical events that are occurring right now. For this reason, the new editors are encouraged to continue publishing dialogue and coverage of the Gulf War as they begin their term.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Offices are located on the ground floor of the Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

Prof. Levering Corrects Article

To the Editor:

I wish to point out an error in the story in the February 11 issue relating to the peace vigils sponsored by the Davidson Friends Worship Group. The story suggested that I had been “organizing”...the gathering. In fact, the vigils have been organized by the worship group as a whole, with much of the publicity being done by Heather McGarrah and other students involved with the group. One other point: the overall quality of The Davidsonian has been very high this year. Keep up the good work!

Sincerely,
RALPH LEVERING
Associate Professor of History

February 13, 1991

Time Out Coach McKillop

Dear Coach McKillop:

Hey coach, is that how you’d like to have ended your four years as a Davidson College basketball player? I think not. By effectively not playing Turner, a man who has played hard his whole Davidson career, you showed him no respect. You, coach, lost a lot of credibility and respect with the fans that watched that game. I hope you regret it because you should.

JOHN PATTON ‘92

February 22, 1991

Davidson Has Diversity

Miss Davidson:

Davidson seems (correct us if we’re wrong) to pride itself on its diversity. Please refer to the interview of the school’s president in last week’s paper. Diversity is one of our strengths here. Call us left-wing commies, but we believe in that diversity. And we believe in free expression. It’s as American as the Bill of Rights. And you, we suppose. Anyone who can write can publish in the Davidsonian. Why don’t you start a column? Do you have something to say? If you did, however, why would you need to say it? Everyone else is probably thinking the same thing. We’re all exactly alike here. Right?

A few facts for your files: The word “homosexual” (and the horrific apocalyptic vision that word brings trailing behind) appeared in the Davidsonian a few weeks ago -- for the first time in over a year. Gosh. What will those lefties do next? Start the Renaissance? Like it or not, feminists (few radical), gays and lesbians (none out, because of fear) go to your school. So do blacks, people from foreign countries, liberals, conservatives, and wankers. They get degrees, just like you. Some even think of themselves as human, deserving respect, or at least human rights. Gasp!

Davidson is far from liberal. You are correct to point that out. The “perspective” knows that, too. He reads National Review. He’s a smart boy. If he only looks around, he’ll see that at least one hundred people in the cafe look exactly like him. Don’t worry. He’ll come here. And, no, he won’t write for the paper. He’ll be on the Court with a beer, just like you said. He won’t feel uncomfortable. Unless he’s a closet feminist. Or gay. Or black.

Davidson has a motto: Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas. There are two key words in it. Libertas is Latin. It means “liberty.” Whether that interests you or not, the school was founded with that concept in mind. Lux is Latin, too. It means “light.” Lux is often translated loosely as “learning.” Working that concept (sic, sic, sic) into your Davidson career might behoove you. We look forward to hearing from you and your 1,120 duckboot-clad comrades in future issues of the Davidsonian.

Sincerely,
ERIC BONE ‘91
GLENN CALDERA ‘91

February 20, 1991

Davidson Has Character

To the Editor:

As a recent visitor to your historic campus of Davidson College I became aware of several concepts of what the Davidson experience means to those currently enrolled and those who have graduated. Two young women currently enrolled - one in pre-med (though you don’t call it that) and another a writer/thinker/philosopher - had great praise and appreciation for what’s found here. You have great teachers and skillful and caring administrators. On the two films we saw - artfully and meaningfully done - graduates told of the scholar-athlete emphasis, the training of musical talents, the development of community spirit and other values. Mingling with other parents and my daughters, the mentor of excellence here made me want to tell the world: so here is that attempt to share the news: Davidson grows character, scholarship, discipline and friends.

Sincerely,
JEANNE BROWNING

February 17, 1991