12 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

Ruins, Women and Ouzo Abound In Classics Program

By Will Montgomery

Last year at this time the program called "Davidson in the Lands of Classical Antiquity" or more simply "Classics Abroad" had just spent two weeks on the island of Crete. We were now in Athens for a few days, going to lectures beside the Acropolis or to the Athens museum. In all, the program spent roughly two months in Greece, two weeks in Turkey, a month in Italy, and ten days in Nimes, France.

I would like to describe the experience I had with a group of sixteen Davidson students and Dr. Dirk French, head of the Classics Department. To begin with, the academics were rigorous. Dr. French would want me to mention this. Our classes were on Greek Civilization, Roman Civilization, Greek and Roman Art & Architecture, and an independent study, which varied depending upon the student’s major. I met Americans from other programs abroad who said what a joke the work was and what a party they were having. This was not the case of our program. Before we left, we wrote two research papers, one for Greek Civilization and one for Roman Civilization. Once at the location of the topic of our papers we gave an oral presentation. Examples of these topics were “Greek Drama” given at the theater of Dionysus in Athens, or “Roman Architecture” given in the Pantheon in Rome. We learned the background of almost every major site we visited.

The point of saying this is that you definitely don’t have to be a Classics major to benefit from this program. Homer, Pindar, Ovid, Horace, Catullus, Seneca, and Virgil among others have inspired generations of English writers. We heard reports from a philosophy major on the pre-Socratics, Aristotle, Plato, and visited the stoa (marketplace) in Athens where stoicism was born. History majors benefitted from touring the sites of accounts read in Thucydides or Tacitus. Religion majors saw the amphitheater where Paul preached to the Ephesians, the catacombs outside Rome, the Vatican, and Istanbul, seat of both the Christian Holy Roman Empire and the Islamic Ottoman Empire. For Art History majors we looked at originals of some of the greatest pieces in the world: the Parthenon, the two finest existing Greek full bronze figures, the Sistine Chapel ceiling, Michelangelo’s “Pieta” and “Ecstasy of St. Theresa”, the Pantheon, the Pont du Gard, the Coliseum... You get the idea: the program offered an academic challenge and interesting subjects to study.

Meanwhile, we could step outside for a cultural education. We met and shared stories with different travelers from Australia, Britain, France, and Germany. We ate Greek chicken gyros, bougatza and tyropita, Turkish delight, Italian gelato and French baguettes. We all got intestinal disorders in Turkey. We drank Ouzo, Retsina, Raki, fatty Amstels and Heinekens, cappuccinos and plenty of Italian and French wine. Our women lusted after Cretan shepherds. The men hit on gorgeous Italian women and got nowhere, (except for Lee at Segesta). We hackey-sacked on the Acropolis. We ran amok in Europe.

The strongest point was that we encountered something new: train strikes, Islamic mosques, pickpockets or a sunset behind Greek ruins. Hard work ethics are part of the Davidson tradition abroad as well.

By Joy Hord

Are you hungry? Have you tried to convince your roommate to run to Charlotte for you to pick up some Krispy Kremes? Is it still Monday night before 10 pm? (Everyone knows that reading the Davidsonian is the major form of procrastination every Monday night.) Run, don’t walk, to the 900 Room (because the chocolate ones go fast!) and DCTV is holding a study break and has gone to Krispy Kreme for you.

Union Board News

And on your way into the Union, made a name for himself around the world as a baritone opera singer and is coming to treat Davidson to a concert. The performance starts at 8:15 pm in Love Auditorium and tickets are still available at the Union ticket office.

Come re-live the story of Charlie Brown and his red-headed Valentine on Feb. 14 with Campus Forum during Eleventh Hour. Special Valentine’s Day treats will be provided to enjoy while watching the movie.

The film being shown this week in the Union is Cinema Paradiso.

We were up at six every day following Dr. French at a breakneck pace. He knew every detail of the sites we visited and swamped us with information. Yet Dr. French was cool at all times. He got us deals on food, hotels, and a University and an accomplished archaeologist.Turkish bath. He chain-smoked and drank Jack Daniels. After mid-terms in Athens, we were free to do as we pleased for spring break. Some people went to Egypt, some to Yugoslavia, and some to the Greek islands. It was a relief to break away from the ordered schedule for ten days. The group, in my opinion, learned a lot from each other. We were from different fraternities and eating houses or independents. Most of us would never have gotten to know each other at Davidson. We, of course, got on each other’s nerves, but shared many good times. Since returning to school, we’ve had several slide-shows and Ouzo slamming parties. To be objective, there were a few drawbacks. The broad scope of the seminar kept us constantly on the move. We gained perspective on the big picture, but sometimes one temple or marble statue began to look like another. It was then that we livened things up and became redneck art critics and members of the Helms Morality Police. “That nekkid man out there like that, now that ain’t right. Put a damn towel on that.” Besides spring break, we had only five free days the entire semester, so we sometimes went a bit stir crazy. Constant traveling also kept us from encountering the cultures we visited on an intimate level. I think students who spend a full year in a country where they speak the language have an entirely different experience from this program. They have more time and capacity to soak in the customs of the region. This is important to consider if you are thinking of going abroad. Yet the “Classics Abroad” experience was amazing and the drawbacks I accepted as part of it. The strongest point was that every day we encountered something new: train strikes, language barriers, Islamic mosques, pickpockets, bungled map reading, or a sunset behind Greek ruins. The pace was rigorous and tempers flared, but fat half-liter Heinekens and Amstels for only 100 drachmas (60 cents) waited nearby. We contributed significantly to the Dutch economy, believe me. Unless the Middle East War interferes, the next seminar will go in spring of 1992. Hopefully, it will, because it is a priceless educational experience. I would go again. Talk to anyone who went and most would say the same. It is common knowledge that travel and study abroad is rewarding. On this program, you get four credits for traveling widely, plus a tour guide with a PhD. Hopefully, a new group will learn some of the things I have learned. If so, good luck with Italian women. Bellissimo. All I ever got was a big fat “Ciao.”

Flu Epidemic Sweeps College; First Black Students Receive Bids
By Meredith Hammons

1920
Members of the junior class prepared for the “Junior Speaking,” an annual event during which each junior had to give a speech on a subject of his choice. Topics included international politics, the value of athletics, things that Davidson needed, the uses of adversity, and the role of men in society. The speaking took place in Shearer Chapel and all students were encouraged to attend. An epidemic of Spanish influenza struck Davidson. Within two hours after the first case, 12 men were victims, and after 48 hours, the infirmary was full and Louisiana Dormitory had been converted into an emergency ward. Overall, 40 men were affected by the epidemic. Three basketball games and meetings of the Philanthropic Society were canceled due to the epidemic.

This Week In Davidson History
The Board of Trustees had abolished all existing discrimination clauses in the charters of the local chapters of all Davidson fraternities the previous April. This abolition went into effect in September of 1966 with ten fraternities fulfilling the requirements and two being granted waivers that allowed them to offer bids to black men by their national offices which still maintained white clauses. This was the first year that rush was delayed until the second semester. Freshmen continued to eat at the College Union in order to encourage fraternities to offer bids to black men. One of two black students in the freshman class was the first black pledge in a Davidson Fraternity. The young man received bids from two fraternities in addition to the one he chose. The Interfraternity Council said that the benefits of this were higher freshman grades, less de-pledging, less “dirty rushing,” and a greater degree of satisfaction in the fraternities chosen.