18 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Bruce Balestier: ON THE SPORTS FRONT

With the decision this summer to hold selected home soccer games on Richardson Field, and the subsequent paring down to
three lanes of the A. Heath Whittle Track to make room for the necessary extra grass, the Davidson Track and
Field teams suddenly found themselves among the ranks of the homeless. The dilapidated Whittle Track, though a poor excuse for
even a high school track, had at least been suitable for training and low-caliber meets. Now, though, the teams find
themselves facing the prospect of at least an entire season without anything resembling an adequate training facility.

The decision to expand Richardson Field for soccer was made to accommodate the burgeoning numbers of fans turning out to
see Davidson’s rise to national prominence; the Davidson Soccer Stadium, with its one long set of bleachers, simply could no
longer adequately handle the number of fans wishing to see high-profile games. That expansion also forced the construction of a
new football practice field (located behind Baker Sports Complex), since a soccer game could not reasonably be held on a
field chewed up by a week of football practice.

Ironically, though, the whole affair could end up being a possible boon for the track teams! For while they will
almost certainly be forced to do without a home track during the upcoming spring track season, the College is now
forced to build a new track, presumably an 8-lane, composition (rubber) track appropriate for a Division I program. In fact,
soccer coach Charlie Slagle even has a theory, which seems feasible, about how the logistics of such a construction could
be worked out. In Slagle’s scheme, the new track would be built on what are now the Upper IMAC fields,
with the new women’s soccer field in the center. What is now the Davidson Soccer Field would become the new
IMAC fields, with the bleachers being moved up to the women's soccer field. The men’s soccer team would simply play
all of its home games at Richardson Field. Simple.

Of course, the construction of a new track is a...

Swimmers Start Practice, Prepare for Another Season

By Seth McLaughlin

Swimming and diving at Davidson has a proud past but has been virtually non-existent since 1982. Indeed, as recently as
1981, Davidson compiled an 11-2 record and was one of the powers of the Southern Conference. Only recently, with the
completion of the Baker Sports Complex and Cannon Natatorium, has interest in aquatics been rekindled. This year Davidson will once
again field a competitive Division I team for both men and women. The team will be led by Davidson Aquatics
Director Ron Morrow and Assistant Coach Trish Smith (a 1991 graduate). Morrow brings 18 years of coaching experience and loads
of enthusiasm to Wildcat Swimming and Diving. Morrow hopes “to provide a competitive Division I situation for athletes who want
to swim at Davidson.” While he notes that Davidson “can’t compete with the big boys, such as Stanford and Texas,”
the Wildcats can certainly make a name for themselves. Indeed, the opportunity exists for the Wildcats to serve notice to
area teams, with meets against...

Football Preview: Clinch Valley at Davidson College

By Chris Hood

At first glance, Davidson’s home football opener against Clinch Valley on September 14 appears to be a cakewalk for the
‘Cats. After all, this is the Highland Cavaliers’ first season of varsity football and all but four members of the
squad are freshmen. Nevertheless, Wildcats Head Coach Dave Fagg is approaching the contest with cautious optimism. Clinch Valley has a
veteran coach in Bill Ramseyer, and one of Ramseyer’s assistant coaches is Caroll Dale, the school’s athletic director and a
former NFL All-Pro. “These folks are obviously dead serious about their football,” Fagg said. “We don’t even want to come
close to thinking that this is less than a physical, real, real well-coached football team.” Until they receive a game
film from Clinch Valley’s 13-8 win over Tusculum Saturday, Coach...Fagg and his staff will know little more about their foes
than the information on the team’s roster. What is impressive about Clinch Valley’s roster is the tremendous size of many
of the players. Davidson will certainly be facing a larger team when it takes the field September 14. Fagg’s main
concern is that the size deficit facing his troops will overshadow the Wildcats’ advantage in experience. UNCC, Georgia Tech, Georgia
Southern, and Emory are slated this season. Morrow has also succeeded in bringing the Southern States Swimming and Diving Championships
to Davidson this year. According to Morrow, this is a “huge meet” and the first of its kind at Davidson.
The Davidson team will compete with 45 traveling members, but Morrow is not against having a larger squad. He may
have just such a group; as many as 64 people had expressed an interest in swimming and diving before practice
was slated to begin. Morrow hopes to have even more people involved. “Being that this is the first year, everyone
has a chance,” he says. “If you have any swimming background, we can train you to compete.” Practice started for
the team September 9th, but those interested can come at any time. The team practices Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from
2:30 - 4:30 in the afternoon and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:00 - 8:00 in the morning. That’s correct; from
six until eight in the morning. That just goes to show the Davidson ideal (so obvious during exam periods) that
anything worth having is worth working for. Morrow and Smith believe in that ideal (after all, they’re getting up even
earlier than the team) and are committed to the aquatics program. The first meet is October 8th at 6:00 p.m.
vs. UNCC.

NCAA Changes Rules

New NCAA regulations limit the amount of time spent per week in varsity athletic activities to 20 hours per week,
with a maximum of 4 hours in one day, and at least one day off. Included in those 20 hours
are practice, competition, required weight training/conditioning, required film reviews, meetings initiated by coaches about athletic matters, and other “athletically related
activities.” All varsity athletes must meet with Compliance Director Ray Ingram to become familiar with the new regulations.

Cross Country Continued from page 17.

Training Coach Andrew will throw at her. Rounding out the top ten were Wildcats Jean DeMoss, with a 22:22, Amy
Bertram (22:38), Carolyn Meadows (22:46), and Lisa Sitek with a 23:42. Behind them came alumnae Morrow Reeves of the class
of ’88 and Sarah Todd Nave of the class of ’82. This week’s race gave the Wildcats a taste of
their own capabilities and allowed them to think strategies for the upcoming season, which promises to be very rewarding for
Davidson cross-country.

Livesey Drafted by New York Yankees

By Jack Handey

When the New York Yankees selected Davidson third baseman Steve Livesey with their 35th Round pick in June’s Major League
Baseball amateur draft, it marked the fifth straight year that a Davidson baseball player has moved on to the professional
ranks. In fact, the Yankees organization has become a gathering place for Davidson baseball alumni. Former Wildcat Bill Masse’s .365
batting average at Class AA Albany leads the entire Yankees organization, and ex-Wildcat Rob Eenhoorn, a New York-Penn League (Class
A) All-Star a year ago, is presently playing for the Yankees’ Class A farm team at Prince William.

Livesey rebounded from reconstructive knee surgery to hit .246 for Davidson in 1991, including 4 homers, and drove in 28
runs. Remarkably, he also stole seven bases in nine tries. The Yankees’ selection of Livesey was, as Yankee great Yogi
Berra once said, “deja vu all over again.” New York also drafted him after his senior year of high school
in 1986, but Livesey elected to come to Davidson. Livesey was assigned to the Class A Oneonta Yankees of the
New York-Penn League.

DAVIDSON Football

CHARLOTTE KNIGHT’S MASCOT

Davidson vs. Clinch Valley
Saturday, Dec 14
1:30 pm
Children (18 & under) Dressed In Mascot Costume Get In For $1.00
