NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN — WIRE!

Two Rapes Reported

PHILADELPHIA (CPS) -- Philadelphia police have arrested two fraternity members and another man in connection with two separate rape cases
on the Temple University campus, and more arrests are pending. Although they would not comment on the details of the
case, police said two Alpha Phi Delta fraternity brothers were arrested in connection with an alleged gang rape on Sept.
12 at the fraternity house. The fraternity has been suspended by its national chapter and more arrests are anticipated.

In the second case, police arrested the son of former Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Tug McGraw. This week, prosecutors charged Mark
McGraw, 20, with rape, indecent assault, unlawful restraint, and false imprisonment in connection with the Sept. 15 incident. McGraw is
not a student at Temple. According to police, the woman said she had been attacked by a guest in her
apartment. Temple spokesman George Ingram declined to comment.

Double Cheese but Hold The Fraternity

AUSTIN, Texas (CPS) -- John Houston never thought a couple of noise complaints against a fraternity would earn him dozens
of book and health club memberships that he didn’t want. The fraternity down the street never thought Houston would report
them for placing the fake orders for goods and services in his name. On Sept. 11, members of Tau Kappa
Epsilon pleaded no contest to a forgery charge and were fined $10,000 for the fraudulent orders. The fraternity members sent
the orders to Houston’s residence after he repeatedly called the police to handle noise complaints.

“The police issued the fraternity president a citation and the members misinterpreted it as an arrest,” said John Lastovica, assistant
Travis County attorney. “They then decided to plan various forms of retaliation.”

Talk About Floating A Trial Balloon

WALNUT CREEK, Calif. (CPS) -- College graduates appealing for jobs with resumes should take note. What you really might need
is a lot of hot air. Anita O’Hearn, a 31-year-old music teacher who wants a new career, recently bypassed traditional
job-seeking strategies for creative self-selling -- she’s advertising on a hot-air balloon. O’Hearn presented a black-and-white photo of herself on
one side and her telephone number with the sign “Anita Job” on the other. She floated her personal appeal over
an interstate in Oakland last week. But for now, no job offers have wafted her way.

Holy Chiroptera! Sounds Like A Job For...

AUBURN, Ala. (CPS) -- Sounds like the perfect setting for an Alfred Hitchcock film on campus: The Auburn University clock
tower in century-old Samford Hall is populated by hundreds of bats. On Sept. 13, the Auburn Trustees voted to spend
$639,000 to repair the roof on Samford Hall and get rid of the bats. The problem is that university officials
want to avoid hurting any of the creatures because they are an endangered species -- Tadarida brasiliensis, or Brazilian free-tailed
bats. “We’re not going to be killing any bats, that’s for sure,” says Auburn spokesman Bob Lowry. “We're trying to
relocate them.” No one knows for sure how long the winged creatures have been living in Samford Hall.

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.

CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300 WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. LSAT * GMAT * GRE * MCAT

U.S. News Continued from page 1

The combination of more part-time faculty and a relatively low listed increase in faculty salaries was the only factor in
Davidson’s drop from thirteenth to fortieth in the faculty resources category. Davidson also dropped in the category of financial resources.
This category is explained as the 1990 dollar total of a college’s educational and general expenditures divided by its total
full-time enrollment.equivalent enrollment. In 1990 Davidson was ranked thirty-seventh; in 1991 the college was ranked fifty-first in this category. According
to the 1990 survey, the amount spent on each student was $17,721. This year’s issue listed the amount spent as
$18,778. This is an increase of around six percent. Morse said, “Davidson has relatively less spending per student compared to
the 140 schools.” He said, “Basically the other people went up more than six percent.” Davidson lost ground to schools
that increased by larger percentages. Williams said, “I think that you will find that rankings follow endowments rather closely. We’re
fairly happy but poor.” He said, “This institution is underendowed in terms of financial resources.” Williams commented that most of
the money raised in the “Campaign For Davidson” is going to the endowment. Williams said, “We need to have this
campaign to stay in place.”

In the category of academic reputation Davidson rose slightly from number eighteen to number sixteen. In student selectivity the college
moved from number five to number six. In student satisfaction Davidson dropped slightly from number eight to number eleven. Williams
said, “It’s interesting that we rank highest in student selectivity and student satisfaction. This is great.” Dean of Admissions Homer
Sutton said, “It concerns me that a few small adjustments in year-to-year circumstances, such as adding a few more part-time
faculty members, can make you drop from number ten to number twenty-one.” He said, “U.S. News & World Report should
refine their system to reflect long-term excellence. It makes you realize that these surveys are a little bit grasping at
straws.” Sutton also said, “I don’t think anybody decides to go to college on whether a school is eighth, tenth,
or twenty-first on the U.S. News & World Report survey. It’s a good source of name recognition, but choice of
college must go deeper than this.”

Davidson College President John Kuykendall said, “It is always a privilege to be listed among such fine institutions.” He said,
“U.S. News & World Report is the precursor of a whole generation of popularity contests. The magazine has tried to
quantify and be objective, but we shouldn’t be heartened by moving up or disheartened by moving down.” Kuykendall also commented
on Davidson being ranked second in best buys of national liberal arts colleges. He was glad to see this but
wished that there was a little more evaluation put into determining this best buys category.

U.S. News began its survey of America’s colleges by publishing biennial issues from 1983 to 1987. After 1987 the survey
became an annual issue for the magazine. Davidson tied for the ninth spot in the 1983 survey, the highest ranking
that the college has received yet. In 1985 only the top ten national liberal arts schools were listed, and Davidson
was not a member of this group. In 1987 Davidson was ranked fifteen, in 1988 the college was ranked twenty,
in 1989 fifteen again, and in 1990 Davidson was ranked number ten.

ATTENTION:
The SGA will be holding a forum & panel discussion regarding changes in Honor Council procedure and composition. Please be
there and express your concerns.
Tuesday, October 8, 7:00 pm
Chambers Gallery

Plan a future that soars. Turn your science-related degree into the Air Force, and become an officer in the Biomedical
Sciences Corps. You’ll earn more, you’ll grow faster—you’ll work with other dedicated professionals in a quality environment. In short, you'll
gain more of everything that matters most to you. You and the Air Force. Launch now—call USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS COLLECT
(919) 850-9668

Your Patagonia Headquarters
Shops on the Green
Exit 28 of I-77 past McDonald’s
Stop by for a free catalog
