2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1991

Collegiate Briefs

Feds Ease “Devastating” Community College Rule

WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS) - The U.S. Dept. of Education said Feb. 19 that it will ease a new rule that
would have required many students to take an “ability to benefit” competency test in order to attend a two-year college.
Community college officials around the country had complained the new rule, which requires them to test all applicants who do
not have high school diplomas, could keep thousands of part-time, older students from registering. The Education Dept., which oversees most
federal college programs, agreed to relax the rule until at least June 30. Until then, schools need test only non-high
school grads who want federal student aid to attend. California and Tennessee two-year college officials have sued to clarify the
rule.

Dean Admits Hiding Campus Paper From Prospective Students

CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa (CPS) - Hoping to keep some high school seniors visiting campus from getting a bad impression, Coe
College Dean of Admissions Michael White admitted that he confiscated as many copies of an early January edition of The
Cosmos, the campus paper, as he could. “I now know it was a bad idea,” White told Cosmos editors at
a meeting. “At the time, I believed that the actions were warranted.” White had picked up and hidden copies of
The Cosmos’ Jan. 11 edition, which included two letters that White thought had “unfair” views that might influence a group
of prospective students touring the campus at the time.

Compensations For Soldiers

(CPS) - Soldiers in the Persian Gulf should not have to repay their student loans while they’re on active duty,
the U.S. Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee said Feb. 20. If ultimately passed by the full Congress and signed
by the President, the bill also would require campuses to offer tuition refunds or credits to reservists called from class
to active duty.

Anti-Iraq Protestor Sues For Free Speech

(CPS) - Barred from displaying anti-Saddam Hussein cartoons on his dorm door, Iowa State student David Hill said he has
hired a lawyer to help him appeal the decision. “We feel my right to free speech and opinion has been
censored,” Hill told the Iowa State Daily, adding dorm officials had never objected when he displayed cartoons criticizing American politicians.
ISU officials said they objected to Hill’s attempting to sell anti-Iraq T-shirts from his dorm room, and that the cartoons
“offended” 13 people.

Flag-Burners Attacked

(CPS) - A flag burning at the University of New Mexico turned violent when a crowd, including Scott Newland, beat
them up. No arrests were made, but Newland later reported an anonymous caller threatened to firebomb his house the next
day.

National Hotline Set Up For Foreign Students Concerned About The War

(CPS) - Trying to keep up with foreign students’ questions about how the war will affect their studies in this
country, the National Association for Foreign Student Affairs set up a hotline. The number is (202) 462-4811. Coordinator Jake Star
says he will handle all inquiries, ranging from how to contact relatives in the Middle East to finding relief from
anti-Arab discrimination on U.S. campuses.

Recession Digs Deeper Into College Programs

(CPS) - Schools as diverse as St. Mary's College in Maryland and Yale University announced drastic cuts in their programs
due to the recession.

NCSU to Sponsor Statewide Greek Leadership Workshop

Courtesy North Carolina State University

North Carolina State University will host the 12th annual Greek Leadership Workshop on Sunday, March 24, from 8 a.m. to
4:30 p.m. at the McKimmon Center. Students and college administrators from across the state are expected to take part in
the educational conference aimed at leaders of fraternities, sororities, and other campus groups. The keynote address will be delivered by
civil rights leader Dr. C.T. Vivian. Vivian has served as dean of the Shaw University Divinity School, and is the
author of “Black Power and the American Myth.” He is chairman of the Black Action Strategies and Information Center and
frequently conducts race awareness seminars designed to motivate diverse community groups to work cooperatively. The Greek Leadership Workshop is coordinated
by the NCSU Department of Student Development and sponsored by the university’s Panhellenic Association, Student Senate, National Panhellenic Council, Interfraternity
Council, and Alumni Association. Workshop speakers will address a broad range of topics: Dr. Edward M. King, director of Residential
Life and Student Judicial System at Bradley University, will discuss “Values and Ritual in Greek Life.”Greek Life.” -- Dr. Marianne
Turnbill and Linda Attarian, staff members from the NCSU Center for Health Directions, will address eating disorders. -- Kathy Cleveland
Bull, assistant director of the NCSU Student, will speak on “High Self-Esteem: The Leadership Power Source.” -- Debbie L. Shaw,
associate director of Student Activities at Auburn University, will address sorority rush, hazing practices, and gender perspectives of the 90s.
-- David L. Westol, executive director of Theta Chi Fraternity, will present “Hazing on Trial,” a dramatization of the aftermath
of a hazing death. -- Jan M. Rogers, coordinator for NCSU Women Student Concerns, will address “Sex, Lies and Campus
Rape,” dealing with myths surrounding sexual violence. -- Ajuba Joy, a staff member of the NCSU Center for Health Directions,
will address “Why Are We Drinking?”

The $12 registration fee covers workshop materials and lunch. Registration is limited to the first 500 people and must be
received by March 15. Checks should be made payable to NCSU Greek Leadership Workshop and mailed to: NCSU Department of
Student Development, 2009 Harris Hall, Box 7314, Raleigh, N.C. 27695-7314. For further information, call Jana Andriano, (919) 737-2441.

Prof. Palmer speaks to the Board of Visitors after the announcement of his new endowed professorship. Photo from College Relations

Dr. Palmer Named to New Endowed Professorship
Courtesy of College Relations

It was announced Thursday evening that Edward L. Palmer, chairman of the psychology department, is the recipient of a new
endowed professorship. The announcement of Palmer as the first holder of the Wayne M. and Carolyn A. Watson professorship was
made Thursday night during the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors. The focus of the meeting was a “Professorship
Celebration” to highlight the importance to the college of its 128 full-time faculty members, and of the named professorships which
20 of them hold.

Wayne Watson is a Life Member of the Board of Visitors. The Watsons' daughter, Bryna, graduated from Davidson in 1982
“magna cum laude” with honors in psychology, and is now involved with social work in Kansas. The Watson gift will
count toward the $150 million goal of the Campaign for Davidson, a five-year fundraising effort that seeks to double the
college’s endowment, build new facilities, and raise $40 million for endowed professorships and other faculty programs.

Palmer, a member of the faculty since 1970, is spending this semester at UNC-Chapel Hill working on a book he
has tentatively titled "Children’s Pied Piper: Television Advertising." A long-time student of the effect of television on children, Palmer said
the new book will consider the areas in children's lives that are most affected by television advertising. He will emphasize
the pre-school years, when children first become socialized, and the puberty and mid-teen years, when adolescents become more conscious of
how they look in relation to their peers. He is the author of a 1987 book, "Children in the Cradle
of Television," which chronicles the evolution of programming since 1950, when only one in 10 families owned a television set,
to the present.

Wayne and Carolyn Watson are native Georgians, and have shared in founding and development of The Wayne Watson Co., a
sales agency and a light manufacturing and warehousing business representing the athletic industry. In recognition of his exceptional achievement in
salesmanship and industry leadership, Mr. Watson was honored with the Hall of Fame Award given by the Sporting Goods Athletic
Association.

President John Kuykendall said the college is gratified to receive such a major gift from parents of a former student.
“We are deeply grateful for this gift from the Watsons. Their generosity reminds us that our care and education of
students is not only an important job for the sake of those students, but that parents are giving us a
sacred trust when they send their sons and daughters here. We are happy that Bryna got so much out of
her Davidson experience and we intend to work hard to make sure all students feel likewise when they graduate.”

Questions Regarding Financial Aid For 1991-92?

Studying Abroad? Have a 3.0 or higher? Unsure if you qualify for need-based aid? North Carolina Resident? Son or daughter
of a cranberry grower?

If you have questions concerning honor/merit scholarships, outside sources of aid, and/or eligibility requirements for need-based aid (including work-study jobs,
loans, and federal and state grants), please stop by the Financial Aid Office for an appointment or to pick up
the necessary forms. The deadline for applying for aid is May 1, 1991.

Our office is located in 106 Chambers Building and our hours are 8:30 am - 5:00 pm, Monday-Friday.
