4 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER - Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN - Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914

SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation & Bus. Manager

We Couldn't Have Said It Better Ourselves

In response to the charges brought against The Davidsonian this week by Mr. Jay Ferguson that the staff deserves a
“sellout” because we do not support the means by which a certain group wishes to promote awareness, the editors have
chosen to print in this space the following passage from Charles Dickens’ The Mystery of Edwin Drood:

Still his philanthropy was of that gunpowderous sort that the difference between it and animosity was hard to determine. You
were to abolish military force, but you were first to bring all commanding officers who had done their duty to
trial by court-martial for that offense, and shoot them. You were to abolish war, but were to make converts by
making war upon them, and charge them with loving war as the apple of their eye. You were to have
no capital punishment, but were first to sweep off the face of the earth all legislators, jurists, and judges who
were of the contrary opinion. You were to have universal concord, and were to get it by eliminating all the
people who wouldn’t, or conscientiously couldn’t, be concordant. You were to love your brother as yourself, but after an indefinite
interval of maligning him (very much as if you hated him) and calling him all manner of names. Above all
things, you were to do nothing in private, or on your own account. You were to go to the offices
of the Haven of Philanthropy, and put your name down as a Member and Professing Philanthropist. Then you were to
pay your subscription and get your card of membership and your ribbon and medal, and were evermore to live upon
a platform, and evermore to say what Mr. Honeythunder said, and what the Treasurer said, and what the sub-Treasurer said,
and what the Committee said, and what the sub-Committee said, and what the Secretary said, and what the Vice-Secretary said.
And this was usually to the effect: “That this assembled Body of Professing Philanthropists views with indignant scorn and contempt,
not unmixed with utter detestation and loathing abhorrence”—in short, the baseness of all those who do not belong to it,
and pledges itself to make as many obnoxious statements as possible about them, without being at all particular as to
facts.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Giovanni Article Criticized

To the Editor:

I was appalled when I read the article written by Tom Koonce about Nikki Giovanni. You presented her as though
she was any “old” guest speaker when in fact she is one of the most prominent black poets of our
time. Why deprive the reader of necessary information concerning such an important speaker? How do you expect the

See "Bennett" on page 6

To the Editor:

Does Tom Koonce claim to know anything at all about the English language? One has to wonder after reading his
article about Nikki Giovanni’s speech in last week’s Davidsonian. It is an outrage to see such a highly acclaimed poet's
address be deteriorated into such a poorly written fifth-grade level, semi-literate, nine-paragraph atrocity. As “The Princess of Black Poetry,” Ms.
Giovanni received no jewels from Mr. Koonce; instead, he treated her more like a peasant. We are amazed to see
how one could have listened for 45 minutes yet heard as little as he did. He tookHer wording is totally
out of context. Few or no quotation marks are used, and where they are, they are inappropriate. To be a
news editor, one must have some idea of how to write—an idea which is not present in this.

See "Player" on page 6

Phi Delta Theta Apologizes

To the Editor:

Patterson Court parties are intended to be used as a means for escaping the rigors of the classroom that we,
as Davidson College students, deal with on a daily basis. The parties should not infringe on any person’s rights as
a citizen or a student, and all houses should accept their fellow schoolmates with respect and friendly behavior. Unfortunately, on
October 19, an incident took place at Phi Delta Theta’s Air Band that exceeded the boundaries.

Besides the fact that certain acts in Air Band exploited the female body and contained songs with explicit lyrics (which
have long been a part of the competition), the act that was most offensive was performed to a song written
by the Red Hot Chili Peppers. The act involved a group of men performing sexual movements on an inflatable female
doll while they danced on stage with socks covering their genitals. Although their intention was to mimic the music video
that...

See "Phi Delt" on page 6

First East Rebuts

To the Editor:

In response to last week’s eloquent railing of our letter about the column, “Sexuality and Health,” we would like to
clarify our standing. Our intent was definitely not to portray a cavalier attitude about “Love Presents.” We only hoped to
show that some on campus are still somewhat concerned with tact, and yes, even the morals that Mumsey and Dadda
sought to instill. We are quite sure that our parents would want us men to learn from facts that could
save our lives. We assumed (incorrectly) that most on campus were unconcerned with the distant future of male contraception. An
apology is in order. We were also presumptuous in assuming that the men and women of Davidson knew of pertinent
facts such as the dangers of recycling condoms. The prospect of infertility is sobering. These women are correct in the
assertion that never experiencing the joys of fatherhood would be a “blow to [our] huge male egos.” We...

See "Peters" on page 6

Peppers Reacts to Editorial

To the Editor:

I feel in responding to my and Ms. Herzig’s and Ms. Mallory’s letter by saying that “McCarthyism, we are pleased
to see, still has a place in the hearts of today’s young,” you have resorted to ridicule and have successfully
side-stepped rational discussion of the issue. I want to address the moral and ethical responsibility of Davidson students not to
attack the First Amendment. Should legal limits be the only limits that we place on ourselves as moral agents? If
the law says that we have the right, for example, to scrawl a swastika on a poster outside the religion
department, does that mean that it is ethical for us to do so? I guess I just failed to articulate
my hope that awareness of respect for others on this campus might check some of the insensitive posters and actions
taking place as of late. I do not want the law to place constraints on our freedom. I just wish
that a fundamental respect for our fellow students would serve as a self-placed check on this...

See “Peppers” on page 6

Foxx Explains SERCH

To the Editor:

I am writing in response to Phillip Atchison’s opinions article “Something Offends You? Just Change It!” Let me say upfront
that my response is written not out of pride but conviction, for I feel somewhat at fault for the misunderstandings
which may have arisen from the article on Students for the Establishment of Racial and Cultural Harmony (SERCH) two weeks
ago. SERCH does not seek to spread multiculturalism into the formal structures of Davidson. The case can be made for
that, but that is not our case. Fundamentally, our case is that even in this bastion of diversity, people still
do not understand each other—not as groups or individuals. The purpose of SERCH is to get people talking about black
and white issues very bluntly (and to listen to each other) in a constructive setting. We focus on...

Mr. Atchison is correct when he says that there is a...

See "Foxx" on page 6
