THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

Davidson Defeats Carolina and State, Duke Dorm Becomes Coed
By Meredith Hammons

1941
Davidson was one of four North Carolina schools to make the approved list of the Association of American Universities. The
school annual, Quips and Cranks, received an excellent rating from the National Scholastic Press Association. Wildcat Basketball took the lead
in the State Title race by defeating Chapel Hill and N.C. State. The student body adopted a sportsmanship code to
formulate better sportsmanship in basketball.

1951
Ten Davidson students enlisted in the army rather than face the certainty of being drafted in the Korean War. Y.M.C.A.
forum on contemporary world issues was held. David Owens of Charlotte gave $100,000 as a gift to the college to
be used in the construction of a new Student Union. Davidson - N.C. State basketball game raised $171.95 for the
March of Dimes.

This Week In Davidson History

1971
The Trustee Executive Committee decided to review social guidelines and temporarily relieve President Samuel J. Spencer of his duties, after
deciding in the fall to remove fraternities from campus. Duke Dormitory went coed to house women in the exchange program.
Davidson’s cross country team ran the 24 miles from Queens College to Davidson, reversing an old tradition to illustrate the
fact that Davidson men were turning to other schools besides Queens to find female companionship.

1981
Classes were not held for two days due to a flu epidemic which affected over 500 students. The Education Policy
Committee reviewed core curriculum. Over 200 Davidson men registered for the draft while the Davidson Registration and Draft Information Service
counseled them not to give their social security numbers in order to make it more difficult for the government to
find draft evaders. The Captain’s Council, a group consisting of the captains of all Davidson’s intercollegiate sports teams came together
to sponsor activities promoting Davidson athletics.

Help For The Morning Hangovers
By Marlo Cobb

Interestingly enough, the word “intoxication” comes from the Greek, toxicon, meaning “arrow poison,” which is exactly how I felt last
Saturday morning after Self-Selection. So, what did I do for myself after waking up at 12:30 pm exhausted and nauseated,
with a pounding head and slits for eyes? I tried to go back to sleep. Considering alcohol’s effects on the
body, that wasn’t the most effective action I could have taken. Thanks to a book called On Food and Cooking,
which I read three days after I should have, I was able to find out answers to some important questions
like “Why is it that when one is drunk, one object appears to blur into two or three?”

A hangover is a mild withdrawal symptom, which is why one remedy of the past has simply been to drink
more alcohol when you wake up with a hangover in order to restore the blood-alcohol balance to which the body
accustomed itself the night before. Bad idea. The result of this, obviously, is an even worse hangover as soon as
the second dose of alcohol wears off.

Drinking non-alcoholic liquids the next morning, however, helps in two ways: relieving that “dry mouth” feeling caused by the diuretic
effects of alcohol, and, to some extent, diluting the remaining alcohol in the blood. Eating breakfast is also a good
idea, as it provides the body with much-needed time for glucose. An accompanying stomachache is explained by the fact that
alcohol irritates any inner tissues it comes in contact with, and stimulates acid release in the stomach, especially bad for
ulcer-prone people.

There is really not much you can do to “cure” a hangover, despite my saying that breakfast, aspirin, and coffee
are the best morning remedy for your night decadence. The best solution is simply to live for a few more
hours and just wait for the hangover to wear off.

Cinema Classics Program
By John Morris

This term, the Student Union’s Cinema Classics program will be presenting films from all tones of tastes, all walks of
life, and all genres of artistry. From film greats such as Cary Grant and John Wayne to the great directors
of International cinema such as Jean Renoir (the painter’s son, a great filmmaker) and Max Ophuls (a sublime visionary), the
Cinema Classics program has a wide variety of delectable flicks. Here are just a few of the treats to come:

I Was a Male War Bride (1949), directed by Howard Hawks, starring Cary Grant and Anne Sheridan. This is perhaps
my favorite American film; it is certainly one of the greatest (and wildest) of American comedies. Grant stars as Henri
Rochard, a French (believe it or not) lieutenant stationed in...Germany in the years immediately after World War II, who gets
mixed up in a seemingly doomed marriage with Anne Sheridan’s Catherine, an American army officer. Dark comedy reigns when the
bureaucratic red tape of Hawks’ U.S. Army comes between the newlywed’s future happiness. In addition to the high spirit of
the film, delighted audiences will witness some of the most poetic photography of the German landscape. A must. Coming January
24th and 27th, Leibelei (1932), director Max Ophuls. February brings the first of a series of German films from the
Weimar Republic of the 1930s; Leibelei is the work of a master. Set in the 19th century, this is a
profound tale of love, fate, and death based on a German story about a military officer and his newfound true
love, an aspiring opera singer. (“Leibelei” means, in German, the loved ones.) Certainly a unique statement on the mysterious nature
of human fates and desires is made in this subtle work, a statement achieved through lyrical camera work and finely
tuned performances. Showing February 3rd. Also showing in February is The Golden Coach, the work of Jean Renoir, painter Pierre
Auguste’s son. This 1952 film places Italian star Anna Magnani in the role of a diva of a troupe of
wandering minstrels (circa 18th century) who have traveled from the stages of Spain to a South American colony in hopes
of fame abroad. Magnani finds favor with all the important men of the colony, but she seems to desire a
certain Golden Coach recently acquired by the Grand Duke more than any man’s love. Renoir’s film is a comic portrayal
of greed and love. A truly spirited classic. Showing February 7th and 10th. In later weeks of the term, look
out for Duke Wayne, Dean Martin, and Ricky Nelson in the greatest of American Westerns, Rio Bravo, where the bad
men fight the coolest of all possible good men while the “Rollin’ Rio Bravo rolls along.” And, in addition to
more films from Germany and a few more French “visual poems,” cinema buffs can take in some of America’s best
comedies, including the original farce about the craftiest actors to ever escape Nazi-occupied Poland, To Be or Not To Be.
(You can see Jack Benny, that late great comedian, try his hand at the role of Hamlet.) Keep your eyes
open, then, to Cinema Classics this term.

Healthy Bites. Be Aware Of Food Safety Tips By Sue Reade

Ignoring basic food safety rules can set you up for food-borne illness. Even if you don’t cook your own meals,
you probably keep some food in your dorm room and you should be aware of preventive measures.

Keep Food Bacteria Free. Make sure utensils, countertops, and hands have been cleaned with soap and hot water. Rinse meat,
poultry, and fish with water before cooking. Avoid spreading bacteria through cross-contamination (wash utensils and cutting boards in between foods).

Keep Food Hot. Most bacteria are killed during cooking. Cook meat thoroughly. If food sits unheated for two hours or
longer, refrigerate leftovers immediately. Freeze leftovers or use them within 48 hours.

Keep Food Cold. Refrigerator temperatures should be less than 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Thaw frozen food in the refrigerator overnight, or
under cold running water.

Several bacteria are responsible for food-borne illnesses. A common culprit is found mainly in raw animal products: red meat, poultry,
and eggs. Symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramps, vomiting, and fever. Botulism is a rare but potentially fatal form of food
poisoning. Preventive measures include discarding cans that leak or bulge, throwing out foods with off odors, as well as those
measures previously mentioned. Remember that food-borne illness is preventable. Simply, keep food clean, hot, and cold.

Eating breakfast is another good idea, since some general morning post-"wasted” fatigue is caused by a drop in blood sugar.
The liver has been so busy metabolizing alcohol the night before that it hasn’t had time to release sugar into
the bloodstream. Drinking fruit juice, water, and coffee will help. It has been proven that the best morning remedy for
your night decadence is simply to live for a few more hours and just wait for the hangover to wear
off. So, why is it that you tend to “see double” after drinking? See you next week.

Thanks to Dr. Beeston for the reading material.
