14. THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

Diamond 'Cats Split Two To Open 1991

Courtesy of Sports Information

Davidson’s baseball team, under first-year coach Dick Cooke, opened the 1991 season with a split of a doubleheader against Coastal
Carolina Saturday.

The ‘Cats took the first game 3-2 behind the pitching of senior ace Dave Williams and home runs from Rick
Bender and Jay Dalton. “We’ve opened about two weeks earlier than I would like. That’s partially because of joining the
Big South Conference. To schedule all the league teams, we had to play early. We’ll have eight of our Big
South games played by the first week in March.”

The Chanticleers rebounded to take the second game 8-4, on the strength of a 5-run third inning. Brett Boretti and
Joe Azzolino homered for the ‘Cats in a losing cause.

The two teams met again Sunday afternoon in the finale of the three-game set in Conway, S.C.

Coach Cooke came to the Wildcats last summer from Belmont Abbey. At Davidson, he inherits a team that lost the
winningest pitcher in school history and the top four hitters from a 27-23-1 team.

A wet January hampered the Wildcats’ pre-season preparations as Cooke sought replacements for shortstop Rob Eenhoorn, a second-round draft pick
by the New York Yankees, and Greg Wilcox, the winningest pitcher in school history.

“It’s been too wet for us to get outside as much as we need,” Cooke said. “We’re lucky, though. We’ve
been able to get as much gym time as we need. That helps us get arms ready, but it’s not
the same as being outside.”

Cooke has a measure of experience in seniors David Williams (7-4, 3.73 ERA) and Brad Wanzenberg (1-3, 6.18 ERA) and
junior Derek Twombly (4-7, 6.65 ERA).

The Wildcats’ top returning hitters are infielder Mike Liebdzinski (.283), outfielder Ralph Isernia (.280), and shortstop Rick Bender (.276).

Davidson’s first home game is February 13 against UNCC.

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited the Washington International Studies Council to recommend qualified students to study for one
year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly
enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college; this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S.
College in Oxford. A 3.2 minimum index in major is required.

An alternative program which is sponsored by a U.S. University is available for students with minimum indexes of 2.7. Students
will have social and athletic rights in an Oxford college and the fees are substantially less.

Many educators believe that the tutorial system of Oxford and Cambridge (in which one scholar teaches one or two students
very intensively) provides a unique liberal arts education. Evaluations (written or by telephone) from previous Oxford students from your college,
or in your field, can usually be arranged by WISC.

INTERN IN: WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media, and with think tanks. Government and Journalism
courses are taught by senior-level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy
internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall, Spring, and Summer).

The Washington International Studies Council 214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E., Suite 450 Washington, D.C. 20002

1-800-323-WISC EO/AA

Sarah Melson '93 will be assisting the team in trying to win the Big South Championship.

Women's Tennis Aims For Big South Championship

By Larry Dagenhart

The Davidson women’s tennis team opened up its 1991 spring season last Sunday with a 9-0 loss to Vanderbilt University.
Despite the shutout, coach Caroline Price was very much “encouraged” by what she saw on the court.

A definite example of this was freshman Cyndi Hess, the number one seed for Davidson who is also nationally ranked
in the top 100 of the USTA in her age group.

Hess lost only 6-4, 7-5 to Vandy’s Michelle Dodds, another freshman who also sports a “high” national ranking. The loss
dropped the women’s team to 6-1 for the entire year.

The Commodores basically outclassed the Wildcats by means of experience. The entire team was composed of all juniors and seniors
except for Dodds. Davidson, on the other hand, has three freshmen playing in the top six.

Respectively, these are Hess at number one, Jennifer Beahm at two, and Tasha Ruth at the number four position. Co-captain
Mary Beth Ruth is the only senior and plays at number three singles.

This spring, Davidson plays a complete schedule of Big South opponents. Other highlighted matches down the road include North Carolina,
N.C. State, Furman, and always-tough UNCC.

Over Spring Break, the team will travel to Hilton Head, SC to take on schools such as Cornell, Columbia, Cincinnati,
and Georgetown.

A few of the objectives the Wildcats are hoping to achieve this season are to establish individual goals for each
member of the team, to be able to “read” the strength of the schedule, stay on the training program, and
to position the team for a “run for the roses,” meaning a Big South Conference championship. Coach Price believes this
last goal is one the team is certainly capable of.

The women’s tennis team returns to action this Tuesday against Campbell University. The match is on campus at 2:00.

Want to Make Over $100/week without almost doing nothing?

The Davidsonian is looking for an Advertising Manager for 1991-92.

Call x2148 to set up interviews.
