10 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1991

Student Recital Sends Sparks
By John Morris

On the evening of Thursday, February 21, some of Davidson’s finest musicians descended upon Love Auditorium for a fine display
of talent in an hour and a half of performances. Yes, our own students, some of the people that you
run into every single day, donned the garb of high-class performers and displayed the dazzling talent that shines in the
music department. After Thursday night, I have decided that there are some future virtuosos on campus.

The program began with a bang when the Renaissance Ensemble, clothed in appropriate Renaissance regalia, recreated songs and dances from
over 400 years ago. Here, dancers pranced with great application, harpsichords twinkled across the centuries, and the voices of fair,
virtuous maidens lived once again. Somehow the slide into the next performance (after an informal change of instruments by Davidson’s
own roadies) seemed effortless; Kathryn McDaniel’s performance of a Debussy piece (which was written over 300 years after the Renaissance
selection) was a simple jump in time, given McDaniel’s lyrical performance. Equally as lyrical was Julia Boyd’s following performance of
Finzi’s Three Bagatelles for clarinet, and the accompaniments of Regina Graham and Janice Bradner on piano were a highlight of
the entire evening.

Eclecticism artfully reigned again when Curt Perkins and Timisha Barnes gave a moving rendition of “We’ll Go Away Together” from
Kurt Weill’s Street Scene. Love Auditorium really lived up to its name at this point, for the tragic and poignant
performance made the stage seem to be a tiny microcosm for lovers. And the first half of the recital ended
with a bang, when Kim Strawser’s fingers danced like Baryshnikov over the keys with the guidance of Chopin’s Scherzo in
B minor, Opus 20. If only we could make ourselves very tiny and hide inside the piano whenever Kim practices,
for she has quite a talent.

The mighty-mite of the cello joined forces with the viceroy of violin in the second half’s opening piece when Martha
Iwamoto and Josh Hickman performed the “Molto allegro ed agitato” from Mendelssohn’s Trio, Opus 49. And, as if the evening
wasn’t diverse enough already, the lucky audience then witnessed Heather West and her Zauberflote (“magic flute,” see Mozart’s The Magic
Flute, see it now) perform a Concertino for flute by Chaminade. Debussy reentered the program thanks to Cheryl Dunbar’s strong
performance of that composer’s “Prelude Pour le Piano,” while the evening ended with yet another bang when the Opera Workshop
presented “I present Miss Despinetta” from Mozart’s opera Cosi Fan Tutti. This performance proved that Davidson’s musicians also know how
to be comedians, for they delivered Mozart’s comedy well.

The whole show was a success. Yet one thing was lacking from Thursday night’s performance. That was, I am sorry
to say, an audience of members of the student body. Perhaps Davidson students don’t believe they have any ability at
all in the arts. Perhaps both the “liberal” and the “arts” should be removed from the Davidson aura, to be
replaced with “Boring Apathy.” Opinions on liberality differ from individual to individual, yet I believe that the arts, in Davidson,
must thrive regardless of students’ personal taste. (I have taken this opportunity to get into a pulpit and preach, so
bear with me; I suppose I’m joining Will Montgomery in his “Let’s Put the Arts Back in Liberal Arts” campaign.)
It is interesting to me how one performance like this could convert the disbelieving, if only the disbelieving and the
uninitiated would show up once in a while. But let’s not end this article with me sounding like Jonathan Edwards
and the rest of the school sounding like the “sinners in the hands of an angry pretentious aesthete.” I want
to thank all of those performers for a tremendous job.

The Incredible Ease Of Well-Being
Sue Reade's Women And Nutrition
By Marlo Cobb

The Committee for Women's Issues thanks Sue Reade for a very informative lecture last Thursday night. If you couldn’t make
it, here’s some of what you missed:

On iron: Over 1/3 of all women are deficient in some vitamin or mineral. Iron deficiency is more common in
women than in men. If you need to increase iron in your diet, avoid coffee, tea, and calcium, zinc, and
magnesium supplements with iron-containing foods. These all inhibit iron absorption. In other words, don’t take iron supplements with milk. Take
them with orange juice; vitamin C taken with iron helps you to absorb more. Cooking in a cast iron pan
will add iron to your food, as well. Vegetarians may have more of a problem with iron deficiency since 33%
of the iron in animal sources can be absorbed by the body, but only 2% of the iron in vegetable
sources can. When taking supplements, make sure you’re not getting over 150% US RDA on anything; this can be dangerous.
For example, five times the US RDA of vitamin A can damage the liver and cause birth defects, and ten
times the US RDA of vitamin B6 may cause damage to nerves and paralysis.

On PMS: 90% of women in the U.S. report some symptoms of PMS, and 48% say their symptoms are severe
enough to disrupt their lives. PMS occurs within thelast two weeks before a period and involves one or more of
the following: Headache, depression, mood swings, fatigue, anxiety, breast soreness, bloating, a craving for salt, and weight gain. The average
woman needs 350 more calories per day the week before her period, but her metabolism may be lower than normal
the week after. Exercise will relieve some anxiety.

Osteoporosis: 25% of women develop osteoporosis, which is simply decreased bone tissue. Bones become brittle and fracture more easily. The
age of 24 is when bone stops developing, so once you lose bone tissue after this age, it cannot be
replaced. Because of this, it is important that women make sure they are getting enough calcium daily (for women 11-24
years, 4 servings of high-calcium foods like milk, yogurt, or cheese). Alcohol and some medications like tetracycline lessen calcium absorption.
Tums, which is calcium carbonate, makes a good calcium supplement. Kale and broccoli are calcium sources, besides the obvious dairy
products.

Other stuff: Exercise is more important than diet for keeping weight off. Muscle tissue (built through exercise) burns calories; fat
tissue is basically inactive. With a “light activity” lifestyle, you should be eating 1600-2400 calories per day if you are
female, and 2300-3100 calories per day if you are male. It is a myth that the bubbles in soft drinks
make you “fatter” by causing you to retain water. High sodium content would cause that, but soft drinks are low
in sodium.

Write for Campus Living! Call May at 6589, Jennifer at 6252, or Bailey at 6434.

Paris-dise
By Catherine Mullins

It is difficult to sum up in a small space the semester I spent in Paris with Jackie Carberry and
Christy Frierson. It was by far the most educational and enjoyable four months of my life. The three of us
rented a tiny apartment in the seventh arrondissement of Paris, right behind Les Invalides. Under the direction of Wesleyan University,
we took classes in French with other American students at a school called Reid Hall, two metro stops from our
flat.

Living in Paris was an experience in itself. Once we got used to snooty Parisians and exorbitant costs, we were
able to enjoy the thrill of living in such a culture-rich and diverse city. Anyone who has spent any time
at all in Paris knows that you could spend a lifetime there and not come close to seeing all there
is to see. We took full advantage of Paris’ cultural resources, including the museums, the opera, the theatre, the cathedrals,
the monuments, etc. Looking back on it, however, my best memories are of the times we spent walking around people-watching,
along the Seine and in the beautiful parks like the Luxembourg Gardens.

With Eurail Pass, backpack, and Let’s Go Europe in hand, we set out every weekend to travel around Europe. We
covered France, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Austria, and Switzerland. Our travels were hilariously adventurous, at
times hellishly frustrating, as we floundered our way around Europe doing everything in our power to overcome such obstacles as
language barriers, confusing public transportation systems, and youth hostel curfews. We did some hiking too, in the Swiss and Austrian
Alps, along the Italian Riviera, and in the Black Forest of Germany.

I think everyone should take full advantage of any such opportunity to live, study, and travel abroad. It was a
once in a lifetime experience that I will never forget.

Mixed Continued from Page 9

and you will find it.” The Cure has made no contribution to anything except their wallets with this disc (it
has done very well on the college charts) and it was ridiculous of Pete to ask for it. If you
solved the above mystery, you may have already guessed from the disc’s title that it is composed of old Cure
songs remixed. There are only two songs that weren’t totaled in this wreck of a disc, “Never Enough (Big Mix)”
I must admit is very hot. (Consequently, it's the only tune using real instruments.) And the extended mix of “Fascination
Street” enhances all that was eerie and disintegratory in that song. But you wouldn’t buy a CD for two tracks
would you? (See the last review that should’ve been titled “Deee-Lite is Deee-Lightweight” but wasn’t.) Anyway, that particular “Fascination Street”
mix has already been used on the mini-CD of that name. “The Walk (Everything Mix)” and “Love Song (Extended Mix)”
are fairly true to the originals, i.e. not marred by thin drum tracks, overdubbing and chorus, and are almost listenable
but a few good Cure tunes have been completely ruined for me. The “Lullaby” remake sucks. The same goes for
“In Between Days.”

If you like the regular versions of these songs leave the room or party when the remixes come on. “A
Forest” had a lot of remix potential and with a name like the “Tree Mix” I thought it would be
hot. Not. Not even close.

Wait until you see this one in the discount CD box at the front of the store.

Ed’s Boot O'the Week: Fillmore East, 4/29/71. Set 2.
