THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON, Editor-in-Chief
LEIGH McKEEVER, Executive Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE, Copy Editor
SEAN LIND, News Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914 "The South's Foremost College Weekly"

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
JOHN PATTON, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

To PC Or Not To PC?

A vicious scourge of censorship and oppression is running loose in the halls of academia which threatens the very essence
of a democratic society. In colleges across the nation, people are being persecuted for expressing their beliefs. Professors and students
alike are being monitored by watchful thugs who threaten and bully those who express their support of ideas which have
been deemed “unacceptable.” An intolerant, frightened, and closed-minded group of sensationalists is trying to take a stranglehold of the academic
world. But you won’t find Jesse Helms and his ilk amongst these insufferable editors. This new band of McCarthyist tyrants
claim to be liberals.

Brown University is the latest school to fall into the hands of the PC movement. By expelling a student for
the use of racist “fighting words,” the administration of Brown University has shown that the school is unwilling to live
up to the challenge laid down in the Bill of Rights: to preserve the freedom of expression of even the
most unpopular ideas. Vehement disapproval of racism is admirable. Prohibiting the articulation of such concepts, however, is contradictory to the
essence of the First Amendment. By forbidding the expression of opposing views on the grounds that they are “offensive,” the
politically “correct” activists use the same tactics employed by hard-line conservatives in their push for an amendment to the Constitution
which would outlaw flag burning. George Bush and his administration supported the measure on the grounds that a flag in
flames was just too vile a display to be tolerated in America. Bush was attacked by the "politically correct" on
the grounds that he supported the outlawing of an idea. They were right. He was. The trouble is that now
the PC movement supports eradicating ideas which they find too offensive to be expressed.

Davidson College should be praised for having not become swept away in the PC reform movement. We need, however, to
be wary of those who would take away our rights to say what we think.

Why Only One?

In the room-lottery process at Davidson College, the president of the SGA is assigned, automatically, the number 0. The logic
behind this is simple: the president of the student body should live on campus, and the college should encourage the
president to do so with the incentive of a low lottery number. The president also contributes a great deal to
the college, and thus the low number is a fair reward for doing a difficult job. What’s unfair about this
reward, however, is that it is limited to the SGA president. The Union president, the Quips and Cranks editor, the
editor of The Davidsonian, and other student leaders receive no such compensation while they perform tasks as difficult and of
equal importance to the college as the president of the SGA.

The editorships mentioned above are supposed to be elected offices, but this year there were no elections because there were
no candidates. The positions have been filled by students who wanted to keep the publications afloat. If there were a
greater incentive, like a 0 lottery number for students willing to dedicate themselves to these projects, the college might not
risk losing its yearbook and newspaper as has happened in the past.- Lame "Ganges + Greas™: Vek. Rica he, ese
a Card Se" is 3 s White: Colo 1 -Codke- sake Letters. Pemt-omar,. Co sila: | Thanks Davidson!

To the Editor: Because so many of you realized the value to our community that the cultural and scientific organizations
supported by the Arts and Science Council offer, and because so many of you gave what you could, DAVIDSON COLLEGE
WENT OVER ITS GOAL FOR THE ARTS AND SCIENCE FUND DRIVE!!! AND WE WENT OVER BY A THOUSAND DOLLARS PLUS!!!!
The arts and science organizations who depend on this drive to offer their varied programs thank you. We thank you
and appreciate your support.

Sincerely, RUPERT BARBAER AND LYNN BRICKELS

Senior Class Gift

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Mondays during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our poorly ventilated
offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in the letters to
the editor or the commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$25 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor: On behalf of the Senior Class Gift Committee, we would like to thank all the seniors who
took the time to vote for our class gift. By a large majority, the Class of 1991 Love of Learning
Fund was selected to be our gift. We believe that this is an excellent opportunity to contribute to the needs
of the community around us. We look forward to working with you in the coming months to make this gift
a reality.

Sincerely, LISA LENARD & THURSTON COOKE

From the Financial Aid Office

To the Editor: Many thanks to students who took the time to complete our annual survey of school year costs.
The results were not surprising; you spend more for books, supplies, transportation and personal expenses, on average, than you did
in 1989-90. As a consequence, the allowance for personal expenses will be increased as we determine individual 1991-92 financial aid
packages. Some of you took advantage of the comments section of the survey to express concerns about our policies and
procedures. We are always looking for ways to improve our services to you, so please feel free to call or
stop by to give us your suggestions. Thank you.

Sincerely, THE FINANCIAL AID STAFF

A Message of Reminder

To the Editor: This past week I received from the mother and father a copy of a letter their daughter
had recently written them. The daughter is a senior, graduating from Davidson this May. It seems to me that this
letter contains a touching and appropriate message for the parents of many of our seniors at Davidson. I hope our
seniors will pay this tribute to their respective parents. I'll appreciate your running a copy of this letter in your
“Letter to the Editor” section of the paper:

Dear Mom and Dad: I just wanted to write you a little note to remind you how much I love
you. Dad, I love the thoughtful notes you send me to brighten my day. Mom, I love to hear your
comforting, supportive voice over the phone. I know how much you both love me, and I couldn’t be more thankful.
I have really been very lucky to have you for parents. Your age and your wisdom have benefitted me more
than you will ever realize. I wouldn't be the person that I am today if it weren't for you. You
gave me the drive to succeed at a very early age. The daughter that you are so proud of is
the product of your efforts. I know that you are very proud of me, but I’m not sure that you
reward yourselves enough for the hand that you had in making me what I am. Perhaps it is not a
parent's job to reward themselves for their children’s efforts, but then that is what I am here for. To remind
you just how much you have to be proud of yourselves. Thank you. I LOVE YOU,

Maggie XO

Thank you, JAMES CAUSEY Professor Emeritus
