THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

Religion Professor McKelway’s New Book Advocates Recognition Of "The Freedom Of God"

By John Wilson

In his latest book, The Freedom of God and Human Liberation, Professor Alexander J. McKelway, of the Religion Department, says
people should not view God by their own morals and values. McKelway’s argument emphasizes that “we should not project our
own image and values on God, because we would miss 'the freedom of God', or the reality of God.”

The statement asking “Was God on our side?” follows a message McKelway sends to the reader in his book. “The
book causes the reader to recognize their conception of reality with the reality of God,” McKelway stated. He says we
should not confuse our values with God’s values because it will interfere in our understanding of divine freedom for human
liberation.

McKelway, a professor of religion since 1965, argues how we must not project our own interests, values, and ideals on
God. “When we do this,” he stated, “we become rigid and dogmatic. We close our eyes to the other possibility
in the way God may work.” He focuses on democracy in one example. “We must not assume that democracy is
the only possibility for freedom in Eastern Europe.” He writes, “theology must be open to the infinite variety of ways
that God’s freedom for human life takes place.”

One example McKelway discusses how ideology failed to identify itself with divine truth is seen with the Soviet Union during
the Cold War. The Conservative party sought to overthrow the government, while the Liberal party believed a revolutionary approach was
not needed. Both sides represented divine truth. However, both sides were wrong.

One of McKelway’s points in the book focuses on encouraging suppressed groups that a sacrificial element is needed before freedom
can be reached. The theory of freedom relates

Alumnus Tom Earnhardt Speaks About Environment

By Russ Tisinger

Last Thursday in the Morrison Room, Tom Earnhardt, a Davidson graduate and now National Director of Trout Unlimited, a water
conservation group, spoke to Davidson students about what his job entails, his experiences working in the Soviet Union, and finally
about the state of the environment there.

The job costed plans early in life of dedicating himself to his current vocation. After graduating from Davidson he became
a law professor. Eventually, however, he combined a life-long interest in fishing and a knack for photography into slide shows
for his own enjoyment. He soon began to be approached to work for the Sierra Club and other conservation groups,
and he was eventually chosen as national director of Trout Unlimited.

Earnhardt travels extensively speaking and conducting seminars in water conservation for conservation groups. Interestingly enough, he spends the majority of
his time outside the United States. He spent all but three days of the past summer working and speaking overseas,
and has been to the Soviet Union four times.

He focused on one trip in particular that he took to the Soviet Union. He received an official invitation to
talk with the local government of the city of Murmansk. The cost of the trip was prohibitive, but through favors
of sponsors, he was able to make all the extensive arrangements necessary for the voyage. After plans had been made
and he was ready to go, Soviet officials did everything in their power to subtly make it impossible for him
to get into the country. Just one day before he was to leave, he was informed that his visa had
been denied due to an unreasonable technicality. After flying to Washington and contacting as many other friends as he

his meetings and to talk more about improving tourism in their city. He ended up making friends that he would
always remember.

The meetings that were planned for the visit were all with Soviet officials. In the Soviet Union there simply aren’t
organized interest groups that could arrange a conference. However, after Earnhardt’s meetings, Soviet citizens approached him and asked him to
come to their apartments and talkwith them about environmental pollution. This is similar to a familiar slogan seen in Matthew
10:39. Here, the idea suggests people should not project their own images of God before trying to recognize the underlying
truth of God. McKelway argues that the Bible is not only a message of liberation but also a “liberating word.”
McKelway explained, “The Bible acts as a mirror on the imagery of God. We have to understand that the Bible’s
personal imagery for God directs us to a reality quite different from our own.” McKelway emphasizes that the “free word”
of a free God in the Bible does not become fixed by the limitations of the authors. He stands against
the practice of reshaping the “God-language” in the Bible. The practice of altering the male nouns and pronouns portrays another
act of projecting. Again, McKelway tries to remind us not to apply our own images to God. McKelway writes that
we must “avoid the Bible’s way of speaking of God, but employ that language with theological understanding.” The idea that
our projections on God must go through a phase of thinking is discussed in more detail in the book.

McKelway’s book is based upon the Warfield Lectures he gave in 1987 at Princeton, where he served as the Guest
Professor of Theology during the 1986-1987 academic year. He received his bachelor of arts in history from Davidson College in
1957. McKelway has previously published two books, "The Systematic Theology of Paul Tillich" and "The Context of Contemporary Theology," as
well as numerous articles. This article was compiled with the help of College Relations.

The Kor, a Pa >stit ion Kuwait at the time of the original invasion, will address the entire conference at
3:00 pm. The conference is scheduled to start at 10 am and continue throughout the day.

Soviet citizens approached Earnhardt and asked him to come to their apartments and talk with them about environmental pollution. Once
he finally secured entry, he was descended upon by a whole team of customs officials who examined every inch of
every piece of the enormous amount of baggage that was transported with him. He was finally taken to meet with
a board of officials who informed him that his actions would be restricted and he would not be allowed outside
the city. After that was over, one official had the courage to ask how they could improve tourism for the
city! At that, Earnhardt couldn’t help but give all of the officials a piece of his mind. They listened, and
once he was finished, their tone softened, and they asked him to return the next day and conduct discussions on
pollution and other environmental issues. He ended up meeting many Soviets this way and talked to them about everything from
water pollution to fly fishing.

Finally, Earnhardt addressed the state of the environment in and around Murmansk. He showed slides and talked about problems plaguing
much of the Soviet Union, such as sedimentation, clear-cutting, and acid rain. In the area surrounding Murmansk, the land was
reported to be holding 40 to 50 tons of sulfur per acre. The lack of restrictions on the industrial complex
of the USSR, combined with the lack of any sort of organized environmental interest groups in that country, presents a
unique and particularly dangerous situation in the Soviet Union.

Want to share your "liberal" minded ideas with the campus? Write for The Davidsonian. Call x2148 or x2149.

Cruise Ship Jobs HIRING Men - Women. Summer/Year Round. Excellent pay. FREE travel. Caribbean, Hawaii, Bahamas, South Pacific, Mexico. CALL
NOW! Call refundable. 1-206-736-7000, Ext. 500N1.

50 States Seminars, our nationally known organization, is seeking an assertive, dynamic, and motivated individual to teach and conduct "No
Money Down" real estate seminars in your area. You have seen these seminars on TV. Now conduct them yourself. $3000.00
to $6000.00 per month possible part-time, $10,000.00 to $15,000 possible full-time. Don't delay. Call for an interview, (208) 342-0950 or
(208) 338-9960.
