THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991

Depth! Relevance! Middle Page Interview: On Column Writing and Column Reading

The Depth! Relevance! Society would like to welcome this week Dr. Will Drivelon, noted column analyst and observer of the
small, liberal arts campus scene. Dr. Drivelon wishes his kids went to Davidson.

D/R: Dr. Drivelon, why are you here?

Dr.: I fear that the art of the column may be dying, especially when I read the Charlotte Observer. This
pains me. At Davidson, however, columns outnumber trees. The dynamics behind this subtle Renaissance fascinate me.

D/R: Well, they do say enough columns have flamed out in the Davidsonian to light a computer screen. But specifically,
Dr., what journalistic work or works interest you?

Dr.: “Rude Notes II: The Backwash,” especially last week’s installment, I find absolutely intriguing. The author zeros in on the
inter-sexual stratagems which define not only social existence at Davidson but, I feel, Davidson itself. He juxtaposes “girls” with, surprisingly
enough, “guys” and rides the ensuing wave of psychological insight to a realm of truth before unprobed.

D/R: We at the Depth! Relevance! Society also noticed this juxtaposition (which we admit fairly bulges with humorous possibilities). Unfortunately,
however, we discovered no humor in the author’s presentation.

Dr.: Your organization’s problem revolves around the fact that, like most humans today, you all do not know how to
read. The petty and inconsequential baggage of humor burdens a quality piece of columniation. (The author of “Rude Notes I”
sometimes stooped to this level.) The columnist’s responsibility is social insight. Such insight demonstrates correspondence with one’s community, grips the
reader, and (hopefully) makes society a better place to live. I find Mr. Rude’s social eye and consequential vision stunning.

D/R: In what way?

Dr.: Mr. Rude presents the reader with the essence of the Davidson Student: a fun-loving, condom-bumpered incubus (or succubus -
lest one accuse me of gender bias (don’t forget the “P-whip,” heh, heh)). If students can deal with each other
at this honest level, campus life will benefit immeasurably.

D/R: Exactly how might we benefit from this burst of understanding?

Dr.: Mr. Rude’s hypothetical question from a female student, “How come guys don’t ask me to their cocktail parties?”, I
think will relieve your doubts. He answers “Are you kidding? We’ve got imports to finance. Did you really think dating
was as simple as staying within this county? Sheesh.” Sheesh, exactly. Social relations will deteriorate until “chicks” and “boys” can
be honest with one another about the crucial role of imports, Queenies, Big Hairs, Mattresses With Spunk, or (in the
opinion of some female Davidsonians) Large Mosquitoes in Davidson life. I remember in a study I conducted a few years
ago a Davidson freshman (male) described to me the large buses which pull up to various houses along the court
at odd times during the year. These buses came from schools composed entirely of females or, even better, from Big
State Universities where they have Sororities. He described wide-eyed the wonderful and mysterious things, real things, that he imagined or
had...

Nichols continued from page 5

...impinge on anyone’s First Amendment rights, or to encourage policy forbidding flyers. We wish only to perhaps instill a greater
sense of responsibility in the student body for their actions and words. Many of us chose Davidson because we were
searching for a liberal arts education that would open our minds...to a great variety of peoples and traditions. To reject
one group or idea as undeserving of respect is surely in contradiction to the purpose underlying such an education. As
the Council on Minority Affairs pointed out in last week’s paper, the gay community is denied any support on this
campus. How frustrating it must be for those who wish to live in an open, supportive environment when attitudes such
as the one seen in the flyer saturate our campus. Racism, sexism, homophobia, and any other form of prejudice spring
from either fear or ignorance. As we can safely assume that the majority of us here are not ignorant, we
must deduce that fear lies at the heart of these attacks. What is it that we are all so afraid
of? Are we so insecure with ourselves that we have to degrade others in order to feel we measure up?
How sad that in a place known for its spirit of community we are unable to exercise tolerance for those
who fall outside of the norm. One of the most courageous actions we as humans can undertake is to open
our minds and learn to be accepting of other people, in spite of their differences that once seemed threatening to
us. Let us not dwell on the standards we are all pressured to conform to in a larger group. Rather,
we should strive to move forward and upward as we learn to accept each other as individuals. The next time
you are about to tell a slanted joke or use a racial slur, stop and think about what is motivating
your actions. Are the laughs you elicit worth the pain you inflict? Starting today, let us all make a conscious
decision to choose courage over fear, love over hatred, and unity over division.

Sincerely,
Courtney Nichols
Bess Murchison
Chairpersons-Committee for Women’s Issues

Jones continued from page 5

human beings regardless of sexual orientation. In addition, fear of being labeled a homosexual is at the root of homophobia
itself. Homosexuals deserve to be treated with the same respect anyone else on this campus receives, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s
flyer surely did not promote this ideology. In fact, it was a blatant display of discrimination. Passive acceptance and ignorance
must be stopped. Until this issue is addressed and people attempt to understand that this is not acceptable, such displays
of homophobia will continue.

Sincerely,
Meg Jones, ‘93
Jennifer Holladay, ‘93
Adriana Tavernise, ‘93

Letters to the Editor are due in the Davidsonian office by 12:00 pm Fridays for publication on the subsequent Monday.
