10 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

By Ben Towle '92 and Curt Perkins '91

The following is a needed explanation of several literary devices. I use the word “needed” because a number of Davidsonian
readers appear to be having difficulty distinguishing between articles written in a serious vein and articles written with humorous intent.
Writers throughout history (a generalization) have employed a number of linguistic tricks to provoke a humorous reaction from their audience.
The following examples (some taken from The Davidsonian itself) illustrate some of these and should hopefully serve as a paradigm
for readers who find themselves befuddled by articles such as D.A. Thompson’s:

a) “The Baker Sports complex is a very accessible facility, where a worthy investment to be sure.” This is an
example of both irony and bitter sarcasm.

b) “Davidson was featured in... William F. Buckley Jr’s The National Review College Guide.” This, unfortunately, is not an example
of intentional irony, sarcasm, or onomatopoeia; it is, however, true.

c) “If other schools give away money and cars in order to beef up their athletic programs, why don’t we
follow suit and start schlepping out a few drinks?” This statement is an exaggeration: the use of a preposterous suggestion
to generate a humorous effect. Note: do not construe this quote as an endorsement of the distribution of alcoholic beverages
at sporting events, such would be truly preposterous.

d) “I honestly believe that pop music can help solve our problems in the Middle East.” This is yellow journalism.

e) “... try singing the Davidson College Fight Song. If by some unbelievable coincidence you do not know it, feel
free to ask.” This quote utilizes bitter sarcasm in that it presupposes that the “you” to whom it is directed
is ignorant. It is also ironic, though, in suggesting that knowing the Davidson College Fight Song is of some great
value.

f) “The professors at Davidson are paid ridiculously meager salaries, but our sports teams are quite well-funded.” This is an
example of sarcasm.

Ben Towle is a junior philosophy major from Norfolk, VA. Curt Perkins is an art major.

Youth Student Service Corps (YSSC) Needs Your Help

Lend Your Hand! All this week, February 18-24, the Y Student Service Corps (YSSC) will be having sign-ups for program
coordinators in the Union Pit. Interviews for all interested students will be held, beginning on Sunday, February 24. Program coordinators
are responsible for the organization, budget, and volunteers involved in their program, for one year. Any interested persons should go
by the Union Pit and pick up an application and description of the programs, and sign up for an interview
time. Lend a hand. Get involved in Davidson Service.

Davidson YSSC Program: Adult Literacy, Big Brother/Big Sister, CROP, Hunger Awareness, Davidson Day Care, Davidson Elementary Tutoring, Florence Crittendon, Habitat
for Humanity, Prison Visitation, Recycling, Seigle Avenue’s Wonderful Wednesdays, Adopt a Grandparent, Homeless, Arosa House, North Meck High School Tutoring,
Consortium of Concerned Colleges.

If you have any questions call Kathy - 6292 Erin - 6049

Next week - Program Profile of Florence Crittendon and Adopt-a-Grandparent.

Rude Notes & Random Scribblings On Overly-Spirited, Alcoholic Homosexuals

Bet that got your attention, now didn’t it? Well, tough (rhymes with kitty). I’m not even going to deal with
all the crap I and my fellow columnists have been catching this week. Even though Mr. Woods’ roommate has decided
to add to the list of reasons why I should be immediately impaled upon the sort of spire which Mr.
Jasper contemplated one opium-addled dawn, I’m just going to let bygones be bygones. E.g., @*&% ‘em if they can’t take
a joke. (That’s a literary allusion in the third sentence of the last paragraph, not an advocation of hallucinogenic intoxicants.
Sorry to disappoint those of you who had so quickly hoped to pen a letter in which you could call
for my arrest.)

Actually, this week I’ve come to think of those two for so long without approaching conniption. So, here we are,
I hope you’ll enjoy these briefs from the Rude News Wire Service:

Depth, Relevance!

HOLLYWOOD, Ca. (RNWS) - Those asinine swine at The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences have published their little...D.A.
Thompson list of nominees again. Get this: Julia Roberts for Best Actress! Obviously somebody’s been dropping acid into the espresso
machine. God, next thing you know those schmucks might nominate Ghost for best picture.

WASHINGTON D.C. (RNWS) - The powerful lobbying group, Americans for the Repeal of That Meddlesome First Amendment, suffered a disturbing
setback in their crusade against everything but Glenn Miller records when Supreme Grand Dragon, and Master of Ceremonies, Jesse Helms
was caught exposing himself to East Asian mongooses last week. “They remind me so much of Libby and Tipper,” he
was overheard saying. According to various sources, Helms was distributing poster-size prints of Robert Mapplethorpe’s photographs to the animals, when
he decided to “show them something.”

A Debate Of Presidential Proportions

The other day I was prying. I overheard one Davidsonite express to another his concern that the average students (there
are a few) on campus did not reflect the growing national tendency towards political apathy in their attitudes concerning the
upcoming SGA elections: “Man, anybody that would wanna’ be SGA pres. must have the brain of a putrid peanut.” “Yeah,
sort of like one of those shriveled pasty kinds that people drop in their beer at baseball games.” “Point well
taken, Dood. Point well taken.”

Having recently recovered from a similarly bestial political stance, I took offense and accosted the infidels. “You infidels, you’re supposed
to CARE. Things matter. Why must you be such slaves to the national consciousness?” I repuddled at my feet. “Dood
man ...chill out. Dood.” Staggered by this retort, I watched in mute reverie while the budding Ciceros sluffed off to
the now cable-equipped lounge and commenced ingesting MTV.

After righting myself I realized, such numbnuttedness demands action. So I acted. I determined that DEPTH, RELEVANCE! this week would
endorse a candidate in the battle for president of the Student Government Association of Davidson College. Awareness must be raised.
I wanted my endorsement to be unbiased, to truly reflect the salient features involved, and to be consistent with what
the SGA is all about. I pondered for days, yet the necessary criteria avoided my grasp. Leadership? Snicker. Influence? Hee-hee.
Rhetorical skill? My side ached. Posters? Bingo!

SGA time at Davidson means the smell of overheating Xerox machines hangs heavy in the air. Candidates’ hands cramp painfully
and pulp wood barons wallow in greenbacks while the campus organism convulses in a poster-heaving, resonant belch. Thus I set
off on a tour of the vital locations on campus in search of posters and, in the resulting tally, the
perfect President for our SGA. The results I found intriguing.

To increase the efficacy of the final count, I divided the campus up into various subsections and compared results from
each. First, in the general dorm poll (excluding bathrooms) the three candidates ran fairly even. Covington tallied 27 (remarkably pleasing
to the eye) poster units, Carberry 26, while Manjooran swiped the first stage with a strong showing at the senior
apartments for a final total of 40.

In the Bathroom category, Manjooran owned the competition; a significant victory considering the vital role played by commode cages in
Davidson politics. (As we all know, the SGA minutes appear weekly in symbolic propriety on stall walls to enlighten our
times alone.) Anyway, colorful “P’s” basically wallpapered lavatories from the union to Knox and beyond. In all, I counted 54
“P’s” in campus johns and several times encountered as many as four in one bathroom (once two in one stall).
Nice work. Covington and Carberry totaled only about 2-5 signs apiece (though I must admit I went in more little
boys’ than little girls’ rooms, but “P’s” prevailed even in those ladies’ rooms I did enter).

In reporting the results from here on, totals will be listed in the following order: Manjooran, Covington, Carberry. Manjooran took
Chambers 20, 5, 8. Carberry and Manjooran split the union 6, 4, 6 while Covington and Carberry registered one apiece.

Continued on Page II
