THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

Is An Offensive Attack On Iraq Justifiable Or Not?

From the Left: Sanctions should be given more time to work

We find ourselves, both as citizens of a free and democratic nation and also of an interdependent world, not seeking
new principles for living together, but rather new policies by which our security and freedom shall be greater served. While
the defensive actions taken by the United States are justified, to begin a total military offensive would be neither just
nor prudent at this time. Sanctions should be allowed more time to deliver their intended blow to Iraq’s economic and
political stability. Only now has the embargo begun to bite. Analysts have estimated that the reduction of Iraqi GNP by
year's end will be sixty to seventy percent. These predicted ends, which alone will not bring Saddam Hussein to withdraw,
should be, in conjunction with vigorous diplomatic and political pressure, pursued and exhausted before any major military offensive is undertaken.

Our principles remain unchanged: respect for universal human rights. Yet, we stand now poised on the brink of war, as
if unavoidable, apparently forgetting, as has Saddam Hussein, that our actions should be guided by justice and reason. Ironically, both
antagonists, Iraq and the allied coalition arrayed against it, believe that their actions have been just throughout this crisis. For
its part, Iraq justifies its annexation of Kuwait upon the fact that Kuwait neglected to abide by its agreed daily
production of oil quota, glutted the oil market to keep prices low, and thus threatened Iraq’s vital economic and security
interests. The United States, viewing its own economic and security interests at great risk, responded to the Iraqi aggression with
firm resolve. Numerous justifications exist for the American response, but two arguments stand as the most popular: oil and opposition
to naked aggression. Of the two, it is the latter which is just since it is the morally persuasive reason.

While Saddam Hussein’s concerns were legitimate, his aggression was immoral and, on the practical level, a major strategic blunder. Hussein
all too quickly walked away from negotiations with Kuwait and resorted to violent confrontation. For him, violence was a reasonable
option, not a last resort. Presently, the United States finds itself in a similar position as did Saddam Hussein at
the conclusion of his negotiations. But an American attack at this time would be wrong and a strategic blunder of
even greater global consequences.

What is the practical harm of waiting? Saddam Hussein has been contained and realizes that the world, with the United
States at the helm, is absolutely determined to reverse his aggression. Furthermore, oil prices have been stabilized and production is
not in imminent danger. Also, the feared nuclear potential of Iraq is just that—potential. Other nations—Pakistan, South Africa, Israel (if
not already)—will probably acquire nuclear weapons in the nineties. Like Iraq, some of these countries have demonstrated the willingness to
use force against neighbors, as well as inhabitants of their own lands. Both Israel and South Africa, for example, have
been condemned by the United Nations for such acts. Should we prep our calendars so that when these nations approach
nuclear capability, we undertake military action as the only “solution”? Unquestionably, such a Pax Americana would demand a larger sacrifice
than Americans will be willing to disproportionately endure. Such a reality is the most compelling reason for exhausting every effort
to resolve the Persian Gulf conflict peacefully.

From the Right: Immediate action against Saddam Hussein is our best bet

At times it seems as if we are sitting in a grand movie theater watching the Iraqi government parade before
us in several different roles. It is all a great deception and much of the American public is being taken
hook, line, and sinker. But in the months since August, there have been several outright lies on the part of
the Iraqi government and it is time that we examined the facts of the invasion for what they are, rather
than for what the Iraqis have shrewdly altered them to be.

Prior to August 2, Saddam Hussein felt that the Arab world should help the Iraqis and renegotiate the over 80
billion dollars owed. The invasion of Kuwait was a strategic move to force the world to take notice and to
pressure the industrialized world to protect its petroleum sources from any such scheme. Within days, a 28-nation military alliance had
assembled and a growing military presence amassed in the nations around Iraq. The Hussein regime has given no logical reason
to withdraw from a nation which he invaded for economic reasons. He has lied before and will no doubt do
so again. Don’t be misled by flowery Iraqi rhetoric. We are there to exert maximum pressure upon him to rebuild
their economy.worth of war debts that Saddam incurred while fighting the Iranians. In particular, Hussein believed that Kuwaiti overproduction of
petroleum, in conjunction with the high quota set by the other OPEC nations, was hurting oil revenues internationally and making
it more difficult for the Iraqi economy. As if to emphasize the point, Saddam Hussein moved over 100,000 troops with
the most up-to-date equipment to the Kuwaiti border for what he called routine exercises.

The United Nations, representing the international community, soundly passed Security Council Resolution after Resolution condemning the Iraqi action. Of particular
importance to the United Nations' participation in the Gulf Crisis is that the Security Council authorized the use of force
in removing Iraqi forces from Kuwait if a diplomatic solution could not be reached.

Saddam Hussein used mustard gas for the first time since it was banned internationally by the 1925 Geneva Convention. Moreover,
he used it on his own population. In fact, he gassed the Kurds on the very day that the Secretary
General of the U.N. was in Iraq investigating claims that Iraq had used the gas against the Iranians. Iraq is
expending their every resource to gain nuclear capability. The litany continues. But on next Tuesday the easy choice for us
will be peace. Why not let our troops sit out there and hope that Mr. Hussein turns his head and
runs? But blood has already been shed. A nation was overrun in less than twelve hours. The bodies of Kuwaiti
soldiers aren’t an effective protest of Palestinian problems.

Sanctions, a peaceful alternative to war, have been tested and found nominally effective. They seem to hurt Iraq’s trading partners
more than Iraq itself. How long until sanctions really bite? A month, a year, two years? Will the international community
hold to them indefinitely? Unlikely. In the long run, our desert morale, an important attribute to the readiness of any
armed force, will deteriorate, not to mention the fact that with summer approaching, their effectiveness is compromised by the heat.
Thus we must act and do so without hesitation.

If anything, it is time for the students of our community to become involved in what is taking place in
the world. Regardless of your view on the issue, voice your opinion and let us hear your view. Whether you
are Left or Right, Liberal or Conservative, Short or Tall, Write to Us. All op-ed pieces (including columnists) need to
be turned into the Davidsonian by Friday, 1 p.m.

Continued on Page 9

Call David W. Scott ("The Bearded One") at x6615
