THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

1991 Student Government Association Elections: Questions & Answers
SGA Candidates Discuss Issues With The Davidsonian
Compiled and Edited By David Thompson

On Wednesday, February 13, the editorial board of The Davidsonian met with the candidates for SGA president and vice president.
At this meeting, each candidate proffered a short list of their qualifications for office, presented a three-minute speech, and answered
various questions from the editorial board for six minutes. In order to provide the students of Davidson with information beneficial
to the process of informed and conscientious voting in Tuesday’s election, we have published the transcript of those speeches, the
candidates’ answers to the questions proposed, and each candidate’s list of qualifications. The comments below are those of the candidates.
A few revisions have been made in order to improve the fluidity of the remarks on paper. All changes have
been approved by the candidates prior to the publication of this article. Please address any comments you have regarding the
following statements to the candidates themselves. The Davidsonian is only relaying the comments of the candidates and is not responsible
for any misconceptions voiced by them.

Presidential Candidates

Jacqueline Carberry

I’d like to begin by saying that I think those of you who only see me in passing, or don’t
know me very well, see the cheerful, light-hearted and spirited side of my personality -- the part of me that
tries to ease the tension here at Davidson which we all experience and sometimes gets a little out of hand,
but those of you who know me well know also that I take my commitments very seriously and with the
utmost pride. The reason that I’m running [for SGA president] is that I’d like to give back to Davidson the
invaluable experience that it has provided for me. I’ve been involved in various activities, and I see this as a
way to funnel my energies and my enthusiasm. I have served [the SGA] in various capacities, whether it be as
Trustee Liaison, committee chairman, class president, or house senator. More importantly, there are two qualities I feel that I can
bring to the SGA: first, enthusiasm. I feel that enthusiasm is the key to a position of this sort. It’s
not only motivating for myself, but it’s something which others can look to and thrive off of. I think that
my enthusiasm has helped me get through a lot of the activities we’ve done through the SGA. At three o’clock
in the morning when you're spying on the policemen to improve campus security, it doesn’t come across as fun at
that point. Secondly, I would like to add that I feel like I am an approachable person, and I think
the approachability of the SGA needs to be increased. I feel that, at times, it’s seen as an unreachable organization.
People look to their senators, and they might like to voice their opinions, their suggestions, and their complaints, but they
wind up feeling like they’re being blown off, or not taken seriously. They don’t think the senators really sit down
and give them the chance to explain how they feel about what is going on. I think that the people
who know me on this campus will agree that I do my best to make people feel comfortable, and I’d
like to bring that human aspect, that personable quality, to the student body through the SGA. I have served on
athletic, religious, and service-oriented committees, and I feel that the SGA is seen sometimes as an organization which works exclusively,
independently of these committees. I feel that all of those aspects are equally important to life at Davidson, whether it
be the Catholic Campus Activities group, playing varsity Field Hockey, or working with the Adopt-a-Grandparent program at The Pines. If
we can funnel activities of this sort into the SGA, then they can be more successful than when organizations work
independently of one another. And so, tonight I stand before you to ask for your support. I won’t make any
empty promises, but I promise that I will put heart and soul into the job. I think that the election
deserves fair consideration, for the simple fact that it affects each one of us at some time during the year.

Davidsonian: What do you think your prime objective in office will be?

Carberry: One area of concern is that sometimes decisions are made, take for instance the minus grades situation, and the
students don’t feel as if they were properly addressed. I feel that we should really be addressing the students, hearing
their feedback and bringing it to the faculty by calling for forums so that opinions can be expressed. I’m also
working to get a public policy committee kicking. I think that the town of Davidson, and the little school that
we belong to here is nice, but the world around us is also very important. And I believe that while
it’s not the SGA’s job to take a stand on issues, we can, at least, provide a flow of information
to the student senators so that they can pass it on to the student body. Tripp Helms tried to do
this in regard to the Apartheid situation when he was SGA president. I think that with the gulf crisis we
could have senators get students interested in writing the Marines. I know we try to do that down atRusk: Whether
it be the blood or bone marrow drives, our awareness of the world around us is very important. The Division
I versus Division III conflict is another issue which I don’t think the SGA has really jumped into. Maybe that
means we should have a poll of the student body and give them a chance to show us how they
feel one way or the other, so that we can in turn offer the faculty and the trustees their opinion.

Davidsonian: All three of the presidential candidates have a great deal of experience and show themselves to be qualified for
the office. What separates you from your competition in this election?

Carberry: I agree that all the candidates are very qualified, but one unique quality which I can bring to the
office is that I seldom run out of energy. And I feel that I can make everyone else a little
more enthusiastic about coming to meetings, and make them feel as if they are being productive. I also want to
get the committees going. I believe that we definitely have the ability to have this campus running well, but a
lot of times the committees aren’t ever checked up on. And I can give them the drive to work more
efficiently, be it in regard to the ticket policy, or whatever.

Cammie Covington: Davidson College is growing. It’s growing in size, as evidenced by the housing shortage on campus; it’s growing
in diversity; and so what’s also growing is the role that the senate will take. I believe that I am
the most qualified to deal with these three issues for reasons that I would like to point out to you
by using the letters of my name.

C is for ‘creative’: I have been on the SGA for three years now, and in that time you reach
points where you get into ruts, and I have been instrumental in coming up with new issues and ideas for
the senate.

A is for ‘articulate’: One of the main jobs of the SGA president is to communicate with the trustees and
with the administration of the college. I have had a lot of experience with this because my trustee contact is
Mr. Wall, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and I feel very capable of communicating with them in an
articulate way.

The first M is for ‘mindful’: Although I know that I must work with the administration and with the trustees,
towards everyone’s best interests, I’m always mindful of students’ needs and will take them into consideration.

The next M is for ‘mixed’: I have a very mixed group of friends, I have been on the Solidarity
Committee which works to improve relations between all people on the campus, and I think I would be approachable from
all sides of the campus.

I is for ‘insurpassable’: I have been on the SGA longer than anyone in my class. I was a freshman
senator, I was the Chancellor my sophomore year (an appointed office wherein I worked closely with the president as a
secretary and treasurer), and I am currently Junior Class President. I feel insurpassable in my dedication, and I feel that
my performance makes that clear.

E is for the ‘experience’: Although all three candidates do have experience, my positions have been very important within the
senate. Chancellor, especially, gave me an inside look at what the administrative workload is. Thank you.

Davidsonian: You mentioned the growth in the size of the campus. How do you think the senate will work with
the Residence Life Office regarding that issue?

Covington: We had worked with the RLO in order to improve the laundry facilities for the number of people who
are coming to the campus, and also talking about ideas to deal with the problem of dorm space. I’ve been
talking to the administration, but nothing concrete has come up yet. We need to see exactly how much we’re going
to increase next year, and what the ratio of men to women will be before we can make any promises
about housing. As far as the diversity goes, I do believe that the Solidarity Committee is very important to the
campus. Although we have had some activities on campus, they have not been very well attended, and I’d like to
see that change. We had a Martin Luther King celebration with a service and a 28-hour prayer vigil which only
15 or 20 students attended, even though it was very well publicized. We also sponsored a room in the Union
at Christmas time where children from town could learn to say ‘Merry Christmas’ in several different languages. We are having
a Solidarity Week in the spring, which I hope will improve awareness and diversity, and help us get away from
what William F. Buckley might like about us.

Davidsonian: What are your ideas about getting more students involved with the activities of the Solidarity Committee and the SGA
as a whole?

Covington: The Solidarity Committee is separate from the rest of the senate, and I think it is a larger issue
of making the whole senate more accessible to the student body. I really want to make the senate a very
visible figure, and I believe that that can be done through the administration and by having more events like the
picnic scheduled for next week in Johnston Gym for the last home basketball game.

Davidsonian: Do you think the SGA has enough power to motivate real change in the college?
