THE DAVIDSONIAN Sports 13 MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

Men's Tennis Rolls Toward Tournament
By Robert Grubb

The men’s tennis season continued to improve their play as they look forward to the Big South Tournament next weekend.
Victories over William and Mary and UNCC improved their record to 15-13 overall for the year. Davidson defeated William and
Mary 5-4, as Kurtis Zabell and John Beyer pulled together to win the third set of their number one doubles
match to clinch the victory. Zabell and Beyer lost the second set but rallied to win the third set 6-1.
The two had not been playing well lately, but the win helped to restore some of their confidence.

In a rematch of a Davidson victory in the fall season, Davidson again defeated UNCC 5-2. Davidson led 4-2 after
the singles, with Albie Varoski picking up a victory at number one singles. Varoski then teamed up with David Jespersen
for a straight-set victory at number three doubles to finish the match. The other two doubles matches were cancelled in
progress.

Davidson ran into a much tougher opponent in old Southern Conference rival East Tennessee State. The Wildcats did much better
than they had hoped, losing 5-2. “They are a tough team, with a lot of good foreign players in the
top of their lineup,” said coach Jeff Frank. “Their number one player is ranked in the top 25 in the
country in singles.” Dave Tonidandel and Russell Briggs picked up Davidson’s two singles victories to extend the match into doubles
play. “We thought going in that they would probably beat us in the singles,” said Zabell. “I was surprised to
only be down 4-2 after the singles.”

The Wildcats face UNC-G in a home match today and hope to avenge last year’s loss. They then travel to
Augusta next weekend to play in the Big South tournament.

Women's Track Shines at Duke Invitational
By Peter Hurtado

The women’s track and field team overcame wet and cool conditions this weekend at the Duke Invitational to bring home
another school record and several personal best performances. Kathy Beach led the way for the Lady Wildcats with an eye-opening
school record performance of 17:53.3 in the 5000m. Beach placed 6th overall in this high-powered meet, breaking her own record
set only weeks earlier. In the same race on Friday, she ran 19:33.9 for the 5000m to place 9th, besting
her personal best by almost a minute and a half and bringing her teammates to their feet.

On Saturday, freshman Karen Marshall ran a phenomenal time of 4:46.02 in the 1500m run. Marshall's outstanding time placed her
9th overall and is only seconds from the school record. In the 3000m run, Beach again led the way for
Davidson. Beach finished in 10:16, placing 5th and missing her own school record by a narrow margin.

Women's Tennis Heads For Big South Tournament
By Larry Dagenhart

With a 5-1 record in the conference, the Davidson women’s tennis team will go into next week’s Big South tournament
as the second seed. As of Friday, the Wildcats have won their last eight matches in a row, including recent
victories against Winthrop (9-0), Radford (6-3), UNC-Asheville (9-0), and a 7-2 decision over UNC-Greensboro.

In the Winthrop match, the key, according to coach Caroline Price, was “concentration and an ability to focus.” Freshmen Cyndi
Hess and Jennifer Beahm sparkled as usual. Hess was able to demolish her opponent, 6-2, 6-1, and Beahm sported a
nice comeback in the second set of her match. After falling behind 5-4, she was able to win 7-5 and
prevent a third set.

The Radford match was especially pleasing to Price. The Cats were able to sweep the singles from the defending Big
South champions in just 45 minutes. The only sour note was that Davidson lost all three doubles, leaving Price with
“mixed emotions.”

In the Big South Tournament field, most of Davidson’s players will be seeded at numbers one, two, or three in
singles and in doubles. “The momentum from our Spring Break play as well as our good record in the conference
has guaranteed this situation,” said Price. “We’ve had a very successful season and I think we’re well positioned for a
conference championship.”

One of the reasons for this favorable position going into the Big South tournament has been the outstanding play of
doubles team Mary Beth and Tasha Ruth. “They requested to play together and I thought it would be fun,” said
Price. “They’re very easy to coach because the chemistry is (already) there,” she said. Mary Beth and Tasha currently sport
a 15-4 doubles record and will have the number one seed at the Big South tournament.

“I love playing with my sister,” said Tasha. “We’ve grown up playing together and that’s why it’s worked so well.
Our games really complement each other,” she added. Mary Beth also had good things to say about their doubles-playing success.
“She [Tasha] has a very upbeat personality,” she said of her sister. “Her powerful and aggressive game has added many
new dimensions to my own game and has strengthened it considerably.”

Coach Price is excited aboutHer best Division I team ever and its position for the tournament. She said, “We’ll open
the can of balls, and when the smoke clears, we’ll look up at the scoreboard.” Several seconds. Marshall followed at
10:45. Sitek once again broke loose, running 11:02, her best by almost 20 seconds. Senior Laurie Reams also fought her
way to a personal best at 11:10.

See "Track" on Page 11

Men's Track Perseveres at Duke Invitational Meet
By Peter Hurtado

The men's track and field team arrived Friday at the Duke Invitational in search of several school records. Instead, the
Wildcats found miserably wet conditions at Wallace Wade Stadium and returned home with several gutsy and impressive efforts, but no
Davidson records.

The action began Friday evening with the 5000m run, where sophomore Ian Stewart worked hard for a phenomenal time of
15:27.4; Ian went out strong for the first 3000m and held on to become Davidson’s 4th best all-time in the
5000m. Junior Ted Richardson followed Stewart at 15:43.2. Later Friday evening, senior John Moss raced with a fast corps of
10,000m runners, running a 34:09.6 in the grueling 25-lap race. Moss is now 10th on the all-time Davidson list.

Saturday’s wet and cool weather made for horrid conditions for most field events and jumps. Rob King (38' 11 1/2")
and Rafael Candelario (35' 7 1/4") put forth strong efforts for the Wildcats in the shot put, while Steve Waters
hurled a wet discus 108'4". Paul Levengood handled the javelin well, throwing 145' 2". In the long and triple jumps,
the wet conditions hampered the normally outstanding performances of freshmen Will Presson and D.J. Ruggles. No official measurements were recorded.

David Kerns led the way for the Wildcats in the 3000m steeplechase, running a fine time of 9:42 to become
the 3rd best all-time for Davidson. Senior Moss followed at 10:11 and Richard Wharton ran a personal best 10:31 on
the wet track. Just following the steeplechase was the 1500. Peter Hurtado brought the sparse crowd to its feet as
he led the field by 100 meters after going through the half at 2:02. Hurtado (4:11) held on until just
before the finish where he fell and got up to finish alongside teammate Cam Dauler (4:12).

In the final event for the Wildcats, the dynamic duo of Duncan Spears (56.9) and David Stewart (58.1) blazed to
personal best times in the 400m hurdles. Spears' fine performance rates him as Davidson’s 4th fastest in the event, while
Stewart's is 9th all-time. Though records did not fall this weekend at Duke for the Wildcats, Coaches Andrew and Manson
had to be pleased with the determination and effort of their squad under the poor conditions.

Come out and cheer for the Wildcats this Saturday as they host the Southern Invitational against Big South teams in
their final competition this spring.

By Bruce Page

Davidson football is spending the spring preparing to match last year’s first-rate performance. Last fall the Wildcats went 6-3, recording
their first winning season in 11 years, and head coach Dave Fagg is optimistic about the team’s chances for another
successful season. NCAA rules do not allow Division III programs to hold official spring practice, but Davidson is working very
hard on what Fagg calls a “player development program.” Football players are encouraged to continue to develop themselves in the
off-season athletically and personally. Many players participate in a conditioning class to improve strength and skill, and all players are
active in a coach-mentor program designed to help players in academic, personal, and spiritual growth.

Davidson loses 11 seniors to graduation this spring, all of whom, according to Fagg, were valuable contributors in terms of
playing time and leadership. Fagg, in an interview with The Davidsonian, spoke highly of the seniors’ loyalty and unselfishness, and
confided that “they meant so much to me.” Perhaps Fagg’s greatest challenge lies in attempting to replace that dedicated group.
Last year’s recruiting efforts brought 35 players to training camp, 27 of whom remain on the squad. Although this year’s
recruiting season will not end until May 15, when prospective freshmen notify Davidson of their college plans, Fagg says it
looks as if the team will get 30-35 players from the class of 1995. Fagg hopes the incoming freshmen class
develops as rapidly as last year’s class did; certainly, they will be called on to contribute immediately, as a group
of just 10 seniors will lead next year’s Wildcats.

The divisional status of the program is still up in the air. Football is distinct from other sports at Davidson
in that it plays at the Division III level, independent of conference affiliation. With all of the changes presently occurring
in the NCAA, a variety of possibilities exists. A likely scenario is classification in the not yet established Division I-AAA,
signifying a Division I sports program with a Division III football team. Coach Fagg says his dream is that one
day when people think of Davidson they will think not only of a great college, but also of a

See "Football" on Page 11
