14 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

Photo by Lee Pennington
Professor Poland is the newest addition to the Religion department.

Poland First Woman In Religion Department
By Beth Mitchell

Not many people can claim to be the first... that is, the first woman in the religion department at Davidson.
Yet this semester, Lynn Poland claims that honor. Poland brings with her a keen interest in literature, religion, and gender
studies. Her educational merits include a B.A. from Bates College in philosophy and religion, an M.A. from the University of
Chicago in humanities, and a Ph.D. in religion and literature, also from the University of Chicago. She gained teaching experience
at both the University of Chicago and Bates.

When asked what attracted her to Davidson, Poland had high praise for Davidson, and especially for its religion department. She
is glad of the opportunity she has to teach subjects that interest her and bring her interests to Davidson, previously
lacking studies on gender in religion.

Poland has definite ideas about what education should be. She sees that today students everywhere are so focused on “making
the grade” for graduate school that they are not excited about just learning. She hopes to create some excitement amongst
her students by encouraging them to “actively pursue their studies;” education is about “questions, not answers.” As a professor, Poland
hopes to be accessible to students and demanding (“I have high standards!!”).

At the moment, Poland continues to do research for a book about biblical interpretation, particularly, on a literary approach to
the Bible. For a taste of what the book will be about, look into her class next semester on Biblical
interpretation. Poland’s interests outside the classroom include traveling, dancing, and fixing up old houses. Overall, her impressions of her first
few weeks at Davidson are very positive.

Have Fun Jumping Rope, Rollerblading
By Marlo Cobb

On the days when all “normal” forms of exercise seem boring, spend your Designated Exercise Time doing something different. Instead
of running, try jumping rope for 20 minutes. Professional football player Herschel Walker, tennis pros Jimmy Connors and Mary Beth
Ruth, and the U.S. Marine Corps all jump rope as part of their cross-training.

When you jump rope, you land on the balls of your feet, which allows the calf to absorb some of
the impact of your jump before it reaches the knees. Jumping rope, therefore, is easier on the knees than running.
Jumping rope also works the shoulders and forearms, and improves coordination. When jumping, use aerobic or cross-training shoes, and jump
on a flat surface. Avoid concrete, since this surface doesn’t “give.” Alternate jumping with non-jumping steps, to keep your heart
rate up.

Test the length of your rope. A too-short rope is impossible to jump through, while a rope that’s too long
forces you to rotate your shoulders instead of your wrists and forearms. To make sure your rope is okay, put
a foot in the center and pull up both ends. The handles should just reach under your arms. Realize that
jumping rope is classified as a skill, similar to tennis or skiing, so don’t give up if you feel uncoordinated
at first; you’ll get better with practice.

Skipping (in place of running) is a potential form of exercise that...

Marlo Cobb rollerblades by Cannon. The idea for Rollerblades began to develop around 1980 when “in-line skates,” skates with four
wheels in a line instead of the traditional two pairs of wheels, were used for skaters, hockey play-ers, and Nordic
skiers during their off-season training. In 1984, an entrepreneur by the name of Bob Naegele (who is now extremely wealthy,
no doubt), bought the rights to these skates, renamed the company "Rollerblades," and marketed them to the general population as
an alternative form of recreational exercise. It worked. Today, Rollerblades have become a fad item and an acceptable part of
a cross-training regimen for athletes other than skiers and skaters.

Balancing on Rollerblades builds strong back and stomach muscles, and skating is an excellent form of low-impact aerobic exercise. The
Powers That Be have tried to make a fad, but it hasn’t really worked (much like the return of bell-bottoms
in the fashion world). The reason why is probably because it looks even stranger than powerwalking. However, I’ll admit I
have tried it and it’s a lot harder than what you remember from kindergarten. Skipping for 20 minutes straight for
aerobic benefit is not the same as for two seconds of skipping to reach the swingset.

People often ask me about Rollerblades: Are they hard to skate on? Is it like skiing? Is it really good
exercise? If I were debating investing $250 in something, I would ask about it, too. Here is a little history,
some answers to those questions, and some reasons why I bought mine.

As far as maneuverability goes, in my opinion, this type of skate does a lot better than the traditional type.
It is a little harder to balance at first, but once you become used to the skates you feel like
you’ve got much more control than on traditional skates. Rollerblading is similar to ice skating, but ice skating is harder
because ice is such a slippery surface compared to concrete. Wet concrete, however, can get pretty slippery, so I wouldn’t
advise skating in the rain. Although hockey stops are out of the question on Rollerblades, you can still get the
feeling of skiing when you’re on an incline; you make turns the same way and work some of the same
muscles as when downhill skiing.

Balancing on Rollerblades builds strong back and stomach muscles, and skating is an excellent form of low-impact aerobic exercise, with
minimal stress on the knees and ankles compared to running. Like I said, these skates run upwards of $200. When
buying mine, I considered that I pay around $80 for running shoes every six months anyway. The boot of a
Rollerblade lasts forever; the inner lining is washable, and wheels are around $25 a set. I bought my skates in
June, and I haven’t needed to replace the wheels yet. If you are going to buy some type of in-line
skate, settle for nothing but the best. Trading in my "In-Line" brand skates for the "Rollerblades" brand was well worth
the higher cost; I can balance better now, since the wheels are sturdier and higher quality, and the boot is
much more supportive.

The owner of a New York skating-equipment store says, “In-line skating will be to the 90s what running was to
the 80s.” I don’t know about that. But they have been a lot of fun. (If anyone wants to give
them a try, I wear a 6 1/2.)

Weird Fact of the Week: The best vitamin C sources are not obvious. Raisins have 1.5 times more vitamin C
than oranges. Cauliflower has more vitamin C than oranges, too. One cup of cauliflower contains more than the U.S. RDA
daily requirement. (Sources: Health, Mademoiselle, The Houston Post.)

Read the Back Page Interview with Cleo Fields—Louisiana Senator at age 24.
