THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS | MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1991

Union Candidates Offer Perspective For 1991-92

Meg Barron '92
Kim Carton '92
Julie Dixon '92
Joy Hord '92
Jen McGrady '92
M. Sweeting '93

My name is Meg Barron, I am a junior, and I am running for Union President. My goal as president
would be to build more unity between members of Patterson Court and Independents. The Union is a place for all
members of campus, but its purpose is often misunderstood. I think the Union should be perceived as a fun, comfortable
place for conservatives as well as liberals, court members as well as independents, and people with dates as well as
people without dates. The Union offers so many opportunities for each type of student at Davidson, and I think students
should more often take advantage of the Union events which interest them.

Being a new member on the Board, I would add a new perspective and have new ideas about the Union’s
role on campus. I think that by being a new member, I could also help break down the image of
the Union as a place for only certain members of the student body. I would concentrate on its being a
place to bring all aspects of campus life together for all students. My inexperience with the Union Board would serve
as an advantage because I have always been in the same position as every other student in terms of my
perception of the Union. I know how “outsiders” react to Union events and I know what types of activities students
like.

Although I have never served on the Union Board, I have been involved with several Union activities. As a freshman,
I was on the Freshmen Advisory Council, or FCREW as it is called now. This position gave me experience working
with the Union and helping plan events designed especially for the freshmen. I also worked with the Union Board during
Orientation this Fall. Orientation is one major responsibility of the president, and I am familiar with that aspect of the
job. I already know several members of the staff at the Union and feel that I would work well with
them.

I have been in leadership positions as the Social Chairman of Rusk and as a Hall Counselor this year, and
I am used to large time commitments. If I were elected, I would be very dedicated and committed to my
role in the Union. I am very willing to devote my time to working for the student body through the
Union Board.

Continued on Page 8

Hello, my name is Kim Cartron, and I’m running for Union President. Since the days of organizing heated Red-Rover games
on the playground, I’ve wanted to create activities so that people could have fun. Other kids were asking for cool
Lego sets and dolls with diaper rash...not me! No, I wanted crayons and posters so that I could run for
playground chairman. Once at Davidson, the Union was a magnet for my energies. For three years I have loved learning
the intricacies of how the Union works. I can make any idea...no matter how crazy... into an event.

I have the most experience of any candidate running for Union President. I have served in every capacity that a
student can serve in the Union: Publicity Artist (chairperson appointed to Union Board as a freshman), desk worker and assistant
to Program Director (work/study), and Co-Curricular President (campus election). I won’t have to spend the first three months as president
figuring out what to do. I’m prepared to actualize my ideas immediately.

So, I’m ready to make things happen...but what? Imaginative social options like Saturday morning cartoons with free breakfast, U-stock (a
weekend camp-out, all-night concert-fest), jello wrestling at Spring Frolics, and a “dive-in” movie with a showing of Jaws by the
pool are all great ideas from past Union Boards that need to happen! Great combined efforts of Patterson Court and
the Union like Lunar Luau need to be bigger and more frequent. Co-curricular events need to involve students directly. An
issue week to raise political consciousness, more panel discussions, informal talks with professors after watching the news are programs that
would supplement overall education. I would initiate a better dialogue between the Union and BSC in hopes of reflecting different
cultural backgrounds through programming. I would hope to maintain the amazing involvement of International students and express my gratitude for
their continued commitment to the Union. The best way to publicize events would be a monthly calendar. I want to
give people the opportunity to make their ideas happen. I would provide leadership and be re-

Continued on Page 8

Vice - The Union has a unique energy on campus - the social opportunities of the Court tempered by an
intellectual atmosphere of Chambers, all wrapped up in programming available to the entire student body. For the past two years,
first as an information desk worker, then as a Union house manager and co-chairman of the Union Board Publicity Committee,
I, Julie Dixon, have been surrounded by that energy in both work-study and extra-curricular positions. A desk worker’s familiarity with
the Union, its staff and its programming is phenomenal. As an effective mediator between the Union and students, she is
aware of the daily rhythm of the building, of who can answer what questions, and of how to answer them
quickly. Three semesters as a desk worker have proven indispensable to my understanding of what the Union does for the
students. A house manager is involved in the care and upkeep of the Union: putting together the mechanics of each
event while keeping the building flowing smoothly. House managing has shown me how the Union does what it does. The
Union Board is the why. The Board is responsible for all the programming that goes on in the Union, and
the Co-Chair of the Publicity Committee must be efficient and organized in order to make the campus aware of the
Union’s energy. The UnionPresident is responsible for focusing the energy contained in these Continued on Page 8.

The Social Vice-President of the Union serves to coordinate many of the activities that the Union sponsors each semester. Especially
important to this position is the planning of the three "big weekends" as well as concerts, movies, FAC’s, and study
breaks. Of course, the Social V.P. could never pull off the events of the year without help. That is where
the rest of the Union Board members and the other students come in... they provide the ideas, the support, and
basically the brute force so that these events can happen.

I have been involved with the Union since my first week at Davidson when I was assigned the illustrious work/study
job of answering the phone at the Union information desk. Since then I have continued to work at the Union
in many different positions and have become involved with many of the committees that thrive within the Union. This past
year I have served as chairman of the video committee (a position on the Union Board) which is responsible for
DCTV study breaks, the video yearbook, and for the DCTV that can be seen in the union pit every other
week. In addition, the video committee is starting up a campus-wide t.v. station that will hopefully serve to inform the
campus about all the wonderful things going on in the Union and elsewhere on campus. (Please call me if you’re
interested in helping out with the station.) I’ve also worked with the artist series, publicity Continued on Page 8.

"Co-Curricular Vice-President" is a lengthy and fairly dull title. Don’t be misled, though, because this position involves planning and helping
with some of the most exciting and worthwhile events on this campus. Let me explain the duties of the Co-curricular
Vice-President and why I am a good candidate for this position.

The Co-Curricular Vice-President (CCVP) has a three-fold role. One is to interact well with the President and Social Vice-President. The
first responsibility these three officers have is selecting new Union Board members. Throughout the rest of the year, the three
officers must work closely together, setting the tone for the entire Board, working on events together and providing support and
encouragement to each other.

The second role of the CCVP is to oversee the Union committees that are considered Co-Curricular, such as Alumni Speakers
committee, Women’s Concerns, and the Forum Committee. The Vice-President helps committee chairmen when they need advice, resources or encouragement. In
addition, the CCVP plans big events that incorporate several co-curricular committees at one time.

The third role of the CCVP is to coordinate the Artists Series. This responsibility includes choosing performers, publicizing the events
and selling tickets, and helping with the actual performance to make sure everything and everyone is in place. This is
a large responsibility because of the many people that must be contacted and the many schedules that must be coordinated.

This multi-faceted position demands that candidates possess certain characteristics; I believe I have these qualities. To be a successful CCVP
one must be responsible and organized. These qualities are essential when planning and implementing events because when you make commitments
you must follow through. I am willing to put the time and energy into this position, helping Union Board members
accomplish their projects and assisting the other officers. Moreover, one must be enthusiastic about co-curricular events and the Union itself.
Because of my work on the Union Board since my freshman year I appreciate the Union and the Continued on
Page 8.

The other day, as I was putting up campaign posters across campus, a young man walked up to me and
asked if I were running for the position of Union Vice President Social. I told him yes, and continued to
tape the poster to the wall. Not more than a few minutes had passed, before the young man (pointing to
the poster I was putting up), looked at me and said, “According to that sign, I should vote for you.
However, it doesn’t tell me why. And besides, it will take more than just a fancy poster to convince me
to vote for you.” With squinted eyes, he then looked up at me and said, “Give me one good reason
why I should vote for you? What do you think you can offer me and other members of the college
community, that no one else can?”

With a gleam in my eye, I leaned toward the young man and whispered “I have C.R.A.C.K.”

“You have what?”, he asked. The young man was appalled. “What do you mean you have crack? Don’t you know
that you could go before the Honor Council for drug possession? You can even go to jail. Where were you,
when the man in the commercial scrambled an egg in a frying pan, and said, ‘This is your brain on
drugs’? What happened, didn’t you get the picture?”

As the young man began to back away from me, he took one final breath and said, “Sorry Babe, you
just lost my vote, because ‘Homey doesn’t do drugs’.”

To the young man who ran away so fast, that I was unable to catch his name, and to all
of you reading this article. Let me introduce myself. My name is Machelle Sweeting, and I am a sophomore running
for Union Vice-President Social. Unlike many of my peers, I am into C.R.A.C.K. If elected, my goal is to get
the whole campus into it. If I can’t get you into it, I will get your roommate, or someone else
on your hall. Soon, I will have distributed my C.R.A.C.K. to the entire campus. I know this will be a
new experience for many of you, but don’t be afraid, because the C.R.A.C.K. that I’m into is a little different.

My C.R.A.C.K. stands for the COURAGE to implement CHANGE. If elected Union Social Vice-President, I will do my best to
implement those activities that are of interest to the student body, even if this means doing Continued on Page 9.
