12

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

By Jennifer McGrady

Exciting things are going on at the Union these days. If you have noticed large ships floating through the building
and people dressed like Captain Stubing or Gopher, it’s not stress-induced hallucinations... it is sign-ups for Union Committees! There are
many fun and exciting ways to get involved with the Union in the year to come, and all are welcome,
regardless of previous experience. So don’t miss the Union Cruise because sign-ups (which are in the Union pit) end this
Friday, March 8.

Other exciting happenings at the Union for this week include the favorite Tuesday morning event, Coffeehouse, from 8:30 to 11
a.m. in the 900 Room. If you’ve never been, you’re missing a real treat: doughnuts, OJ, coffee, and tea, along
with socializing and fun that will start your day off much better than that soggy bowl of cereal. Tuesday, March
5, the fun continues in the 900 Room from 9 to 10 p.m. with a tropical adventure study break with
fun deck games such as cards and shuffleboard and cruise fare of fruits and icy drinks. From 10:30 to midnight,
21-year-old night in the 900 Room will finish up a terrific Tuesday.

Wednesday at 9:30 p.m., Pop Films is showing Flatliners in the 900 Room. Don’t forget to bring your ID for
the show. On Thursday, March 7, as part of Women’s Month, the Women’s Concerns committee is sponsoring a talk given
by the Davidson Nutritionist on “Women and Nutrition” from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room. This promises to
be a very informative and interesting event.

On Friday, finish up your week with an FAC on the Union Patio from 3 to 6 p.m. Flatliners is
showing again on Friday at 8 and 10 p.m. in the 900 Room. Plan ahead to attend another installment of
DCTV on Monday night, March 11, from 10 to 11 p.m. in the 900 Room. Who knows, you might be
in it!

Remember, sign-ups end this Friday for Union Committees, so don’t miss the boat! Join in!

Continued from Page 11

Are cultures and people not beautiful? Which culture is better? If I live in a “better” culture would my life
be more valid or justifiable than if I lived in a “worse” culture? Must I choose?! Celebrate! Dance! Sing! I
love them all!

They look at me now with wonder. I can see it in the awed frost of their eyes. They don’t
know what to expect from me. Something profound perhaps, have I to offer? I have traipsed across oceans and seas
and cities. What dark monsters have I slain during my year abroad?

Abroad. Alone. Culture shock. What does that mean, culture shock? It means that all of a sudden you find yourself
stripped of all you are -- all your definitions of yourself, all your ways of comprehending the world, all your
ways of doing things, all your moral systems. There you stand, naked in front of your own eyes, faced with
the tremendous task of establishing your own lifestyle by yourself.

Wow! How quickly you come to realize that most of what you believe about yourself and the cosmos and your
place in society is founded on the instruction of your culture. Thought they were inherent truths? -- wrong. From where,
then, do you find the answers to your questions?

From yourself! You are alone.

Alone with everybody. Transcendent of aloneness: Who’s to say that your answers are better than mine? Even God looks different
in Germany. When you are alone, your decisions are for yourself, not for your parents, not for your peers, and
not for your society; if, at least, you open your eyes. You find you. Who? You and you and you
and you! We all have one Truth.

Respect is essential and goes hand in hand with the disposal of ignorance. There is no place for individual pride.

Ethnocentricity is a blinder we wear to create the illusion that we are better, more valuable, more important, more just,
and more powerful than others. How liberating it is to throw off the blinders, to strip ourselves of illusion, to
realize that all roses are beautiful! Verily, the perfume made from the essence of roses is the sweetest smell there
is! The one who knows this is truly rich. He carries bouquets to dead soldiers.

Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, The Little Prince, trans. Katherine Woods (New York: Harcourt, 1943) 77-8.

If today is your birthday, no one cares at all. So there. — Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20): A car will
rear-end your car and col your face. Focus on s
