6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

Beyond Birkenstock: Another Offering of B.S. (Birk Sagacity, that is)

Hey, we’ve been up on Mt. Sinai getting column topics from God (Moses took the new picture) and guess what? (Rhetorical question; Do Not Answer) This was Numero Uno on the Really Top Ten Humor Columns for this millennium. (Hey, we thought it was dumb too, but like Jake and Elwood, “we’re on a mission from Gahhd.”)

In the tradition of great plagiarists such as Sen. Joe Biden, Vanilla Ice, and those shadowy figures the Honor Council is always shipping home, we bring you this column. Now this isn’t that petty stealing of words or bass lines; we are instead co-opting an idea (just like what we did with our Top Fifteen last year). The difference, of course, is honesty. We’re honestly going to “steal” a concept from a major publication without the expressed written consent of Major League Baseball. We never claimed to be original, but hey ... you already knew that.

Anyway, in case one or two of you Nintendo-Heads reads Newsweek, you should recognize this immediately. But rather than call it CW (Conventional Wisdom), we’ll alter it slightly to reflect how much we think of ourselves and call it BS (Birk Sagacity). And for the comedians among you, that last phrase is not an oxymoron. So, enjoy.

Khrushchev: Nick has taken a serious turn for the nether regions of BS. He sure does look silly for telling our grandparents that we’d grow up Commies. On second thought, some of you are ... he’s holding steady.

Lenin: You would think that Lenin’s BS rating would is looking old and tired. Perhaps some pastels would help his image, or maybe what he needs is a coup. You think? Fidel would plummet if he weren’t in Hell already.

Charlotte: The devastating effects of the coup having passed, for the most part, the Queen City can once again set its sights on becoming a major-league town. Keep at it Charlotte, you’re almost there! (Not.)

Davidson College: The little Black Boxes are cute but just a teeny bit fascist. You think? The College holds steady, however, for letting in some cute freshmen babes (womyn, gender-neutral “y”).

Terry Holland: Clinch Valley? ‘Nuff said. He plummets.

Atlanta: The Olympics and the Braves? A serious upswing from the days of Carter and Billy Beer.

Dean Terry: We can’t blame him for wanting to entertain all the new freshmen himself (and keep them away from the sinful upperclassmen). The only problem here is: he’s not that entertaining! Definite downswing.

Gorbachev: Bad suits. Bad friends. Bad BS rating. He sure is on a slight upswing mostly because it was announced that his old preserved corpse would be removed from Moscow. Moscow officials were quoted as saying “He just cast such a gloomy pall over everything. We’re re-doing the whole place in teal, just like the Hornets!” It turns out that all this time he just wanted to be buried next to his mother. Just another Mama’s boy gone bad.

Coup Plotters: Can you say firing squad? These guys dropped about six feet deep in BS.

Baltic States: Recognized by almost every country in the world except Cuba and the lost city of Atlantis, the Estonians, Lithuanians, and Latvians are on their way up. Maybe now they’ll get cable.

Fidel Castro: That wardrobe is looking old and tired. Perhaps some pastels would help his image, or maybe what he needs is a coup. You think? Fidel would plummet if he weren’t in Hell already.

Davidson: That gun turret on top of the town hall may help out in the event of an attack by our Native American friends, but it’s damn ugly. The town loses some charm and drops as far as BS is concerned.

BUY A LARGE, GET A MEDIUM
VALID UNTIL 9/30/91
VOTED "BEST OF LAKE NORMAN" - BY LAKE NORMAN MAGAZINE
(LARGE MUST HAVE THREE OR MORE TOPPINGS)
JUST ASK FOR "FREE PIZZA"COLLEGE SPECIAL CALL 892-9046

NEED A JOB?!
*FLEXIBLE HOURS
*FUN JOB
*FUN STAFF
OUR DRIVERS AVERAGE $7.30 per hour
CALL 892-9046 for details after 4:00pm

Raisa: Get well soon. Who else could live with the big lug. Good BS potential.

Boris Yeltsin: Good BS, but needs to contact Lasorda about that gut.

Crown Heights: Just not a good place to take the kids anymore. Try Kennebunkport. It’s got a lot of BS but it’s not Kosher.

Al Sharpton: Get a life and a haircut. Full of the other kind of BS, so there’s no room for ours.

Jeff Dahmer: We're giving him the cold shoulder this week. No rating.

Pee Wee: Give him a break. Some movies can be really boring. Medium BS.

Bush: Listen to him ramble sometimes; this guy went to Yale? The prepared speeches are fine (but they’re written by a Davidson grad). Bush should stick to ‘em. Otherwise, New World order going fine; good BS. Deficit, what deficit? We don’t need no stinkin’ deficit (if you’re going to borrow, at least be obvious).

Sununu: We hear there’s a good opening down at the unemployment line; check into it. Almost out of BS.

John Tower: God said he’s one hell of a party animal. Must have been a Pika. No BS, he’s dead!

God: Good.

Us: Always full of BS (that’s a good thing).

You: What doesn’t kill you makes you stronger. Remember that during your shortened exam period this year. Sorry, you’re always less sagacious than us, we’re the columnists.

Ch-Ch-Ch-Changes?!

Like a lot of people, I have a tendency to resist change. Since at least the third grade, I have worn the same sorts of clothes, have had the same basic haircut, and have listened to the same types of music. Now, I do not mean to suggest that I sit around all day in red corduroy overalls listening to old Captain & Tennille albums, I promise, but changing is not something I always do well. Always.

At Davidson, most of us resist change about as well as a group of 1400 octogenarians might. We don’t really like Patterson Court’s new look, because we all know it’s just gonna get messed up anyway. I’ve heard a lot of people say this week that the new rushing edict is for the birds, because, after all, the language is ambiguous, and “entertain” can mean so many, many things.

In a lot of ways, we are all resistant to change, even changes that, on the surface, seem inconsequential. One aspect of changing requires us to periodically give up certain things that we have grown accustomed to, either because those around us dictate such changes, or when changes are made for us, we know we must move on, only that’s not always such an easy thing to do, no matter how insignificant the changes may seem.

Giving up something that is valuable only because it seems like a constant in life is not a painless process. And, of course, when changes are made for us, well, the old way always seems better.

But all changes or be- cause, we, in our hearts, know that making a change is the right thing to do.

Further, when we make changes, Patterson Court looked ragged and misused, pre-rush had gotten way out of hand, and though I hate to admit it, if Johnston Gym were renovated to house the Union, its programs could be greatly expanded and involve more students.

So change is necessary. Having said all this, I fully intend to open myself up to all sorts of changes. Not! I’d rather drive to McDonald’s than walk from Chambers to Johnston Gym between classes. I mean the very idea!