20 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Brent Crawford, Spokesperson for the National Marrow Donor Program

By David Smyth

Brent Crawford spoke here last Thursday on behalf of the Project Life Committee, which is sponsoring a marrow testing drive on November 20. Davidson junior and transplant recipient David Lindsay helped with this interview and assumed a dual role of interviewer and interviewee, which is why his contributions are indicated by name.

Davidsonian: Could you describe exactly what leukemia is?

Crawford: Basically, it involves the white blood cells in the blood, and because there are too many white cells, which are the disease fighters, they end up becoming confused as far as what’s good and what’s bad. And they end up killing red cells, the good stuff, as well as the bad stuff.

Davidsonian: You explained in your speech that your immune system was too good. Was that really the problem in your case?

Crawford: Well, in a sense. I was in bad health, but that’s essentially what leukemia is. Because there are so many white cells and your marrow is so compacted with them, the disease-fighters, your immune system is basically too good because it’s not distinguishing between things that are good in your blood and things that are bad. So it’s killing good cells as well as bad.

Davidsonian: You said that you have been in remission for two years now. What does that mean?

Crawford: In leukemia, what ends up happening is the white cells reproduce themselves at such a rapid rate they’re out of control. Right now, my blood is stabilized as far as the right regiment of cells is being made.

Davidsonian: After the incident in 1987 where it became blatantly obvious that you had something worse than the flu, how did the doctors finally diagnose the leukemia? Did they draw marrow then?

Crawford: What I did is I went to my present doctor. He took a blood sample and they also took about 10 cc’s of marrow out of my hip for testing. From that, they analyzed it to see the cell count in that bone marrow. That was my first experience with that sort of procedure.

Davidsonian: Was it very painful then?

Crawford: Yeah, it was. I'll admit to you. The doctor said the whole reason my joints were hurting so bad was because there were so many white cells in there that they were pushing out on the bone, throbbing. It was like it didn’t want to let the needle out because there were so many cells crushing around it. It felt like gout, is what he said, because there were so many white cells in the blood it just dried up the lubrication in my joints. So it was basically bone rubbing against bone.

Davidsonian: Could you sketch out your own history with the disease starting in 1987?

Crawford: Well, four years ago I graduated from high school in ’87. That summer, about a week before I was to go to school, is when I first found out that I was sick. I went through chemotherapy for nine months until March of 1988. In March, I tapered off all my medicine and went back to school in the fall of ’88. That fall I was fine and I completed my whole freshman year. Then that summer I came home and in June, through a routine test, I found out it had come back. I started back on chemotherapy that June and went until January on treatment again. At that point, my doctor stopped me on the extensive chemotherapy, meaning that three days a week I would go in and be infused with treatment. Then he tapered down my medicine to where I am today. I take three pills every day of one medicine and one day a week I take eighteen of another type of medicine. I did that from January of ’89 till where I am now. I laid out of school the rest of that year; I didn’t even go back second semester; I just basically vegetated. I went back to school last year and completed that full year and then I’m here now.

Davidsonian: You’ve been in remission for over two years now, and all indications are that if you make it to three years you’re pretty much out of the woods. If you were offered a marrow transplant today or six months from now, would you accept one? Would it be a difficult decision to make?

Crawford: Yeah, it would because I’ve been in remission now for two years. Initially, they told me I wouldn’t be in remission as long as I was the first time. I’ve been in remission for double the length I was the last time. I ended up deciding for myself that I wasn’t going to worry about it. Whatever was going to happen was going to happen. The Lord was going to take care of it and I couldn’t do anything about it. But on a human level, yeah, it would be a hard decision. I’ve felt fine, but who knows what could happen.

Davidsonian: Is a transplant necessarily a tricky procedure for the recipient? Is it a risk if you decide to have one?

Crawford: Yeah, it’s involved as far as the risk factor or whatever for the recipient, but not for the donor. But it’s not...As involved as you think. All it is is they would infuse chemotherapy in heavy doses of radiation to totally knock out your body’s immune system. Then they infuse the marrow that they’ve harvested from a donor. The critical part of the whole thing is that for a hundred days after the operation, your body can either accept that marrow or reject it. If it rejects it, there’s really nothing they can do because they’ve killed your immune system. So I think a majority of the people that wind up having complications are not as a result of the chemotherapy or anything. They’re from the body rejecting the new marrow.

Lindsay: In your situation, if they came up with a match for you in the next six months, they could preserve your marrow if it was still in remission. The doctors could take your marrow and treat it while it’s outside your body with the chemotherapy and radiation. If for some reason your body rejected the new marrow, they could put yours back in, which they did for a kid in Charlotte. He’s had two attempts at transplants, neither of which worked. But they preserved his marrow both times, put it back in, and his body immediately accepted it and recharged itself. It seems to me that would be a good option for you because if it didn’t work, it’d be hell. I’m not trying to downplay that. But if you knew that you had a safety, you’d be better off.

Crawford: I had never thought of that.

Lindsay: That was something they did with me. When I went in, I was the first person to ever ask that in Minnesota. I said: “I’m in remission now. Can’t you save this?” I kept hearing all these stories about the marrow not taking. I said I didn’t want to just be hanging there without something to put back in. I’d rather have my remission marrow to put back. That was one of the roughest times, those first fourteen days. If my cells didn’t come back, that was it. On day thirteen they started appearing and it took, and it was fine. I really struggled with that.

Davidsonian: In your speech, you mentioned six people you had met going through the same thing you were. What happened to them?

Crawford: I started taking treatment here in Charlotte, just at a clinic. When I first got sick, I met six people within that year. A couple of them went into remission for not even a year and then fell out. Their bodies weren’t reacting the way they should to the chemotherapy. They became candidates for bone marrow transplants. The doctors could get them in remission and keep them there for three weeks before they’d fall out again. Those six people just needed transplants. Because you can only go so far on chemotherapy before you either go into remission or need a transplant. Those people, because they couldn’t get transplants, ended up dying. Nobody in their family matched and the registry couldn’t provide for them. When I started two years ago, there were only about 30,000 people on the registry here in the United States. The Charlotte Coliseum seats that many people. Now because of efforts like Davidson’s, those numbers are a little over 200,000. And that’s a great increase over the last two years, but they still need about a million people in the bank. That’s a lot, but compared to the nation’s population, it’s nothing.

Lindsay: Doesn’t it get you mad? I really see this laziness and apathy. I felt like, why couldn’t they just make it a part of getting your driver’s license? I mean, two tablespoons of blood. I get really fired up about it. It really is ridiculous because mathematically, if we could get a million or two million people, we could narrow the odds so much. I had a guy go to the clinic with me, a twelve-year-old kid named Jason. He needed a transplant. I wanted to drive people out there to get their blood tested. He kept waiting and waiting and he said: “You got a transplant. I know I’ll get one.” And he ended up dying. If I was looking for a transplant right now, I think I’d be standing up saying, “Dammit, get out there and get tested.” I know the money part of it can be a problem, but still.

Crawford: But through efforts like your drive in November, that gets taken care of, though. When you have things like this, it doesn’t make any excuse not to go out. But I can understand not knowing about the problem. Before I got sick, I never recalled hearing about a bone marrow drive in the paper or whatever. The only way I knew about it was through somebody a long time ago that had had one. Even from that, I heard how painful it was for him, the recipient. But it’s not that way for the donor. All it is is a bruise because they’re not cutting into you or anything.

Lindsay: It’s not like giving up a kidney.

Crawford: It’s the only transplant except for blood where you can save somebody’s life and not be dead to see the benefits.

Lindsay: In two days you rebuild your own marrow. It rejuvenates itself. You’re not giving anything up; all you do is gain.