NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

WIRE: Police Try To Link Gainesville Suspect To Louisiana Triple Murder

GAINESVILLE, Fla. (CPS) - The chief suspect in the killings of five students in Gainesville may face three murder charges
in his hometown in Louisiana, according to a police affidavit. The affidavit from Shreveport, La., police was filed in support
of a search warrant to obtain saliva, blood, and hair samples from Danny Harold Rolling, 37. Shreveport police say the
samples may link Rolling to the 1989 triple-murder of Julie Grissom, 24; her father Tom, 55; and her nephew Sean,
8. They believe Julie Grissom was the target, but her father and nephew also were stabbed to death when they
walked in on the killing.

The affidavit’s release came Aug. 26 as Rolling faced jury selection for his robbery trial in Tampa, where sheriff's deputies
said Rolling held up a grocery store then led them on a chase and subsequent shootout. On Aug. 29, a
jury convicted Rolling of robbery, attempted murder, and aggravated assault on police. The Tampa robbery charges came a few days
after police found the bodies in Gainesville in August 1990, but they are unrelated to the student murders. Still, investigators
say the Tampa conviction could help connect Rolling to the murders because the car used in the robbery was stolen
from near the University of Florida.

Although Rolling is suspected in the Shreveport and Gainesville killings, no charges have been filed against him in either case.

Finally...A Low-Fat Diet

SALT LAKE CITY (CPS) - Got a hot date that might end in a romantic interlude? If you’re a guy,
then you probably should avoid a hamburger, french fries, and a chocolate shake for dinner. A recent issue of Prevention
magazine reports that researchers at the University of Utah have discovered a connection between sex drive and fatty foods.

The House That Guns-N-Roses Built

AKRON, Ohio (CPS) - Aldan, a senior at the University of Akron, just wanted to meet the band. She didn’t
expect to walk away with the lead singer’s house, too. Aldan sent one postcard to an MTV contest that was
giving away Guns-N-Roses singer Axl Rose’s West Hollywood condo, estimated to be worth about $425,000. The odds of winning were
400,000-to-1. “They called me a few weeks ago and I wasn’t sure what to think,” said Aldan, a mass communications
major. “I was just amazed. The main reason I entered the contest was to meet the band.” That she will
do, sometime in September when Rose will hand over the condo’s keys. Aldan said she doesn’t know what she’s going
to do with her prize. “I just got the letter in the mail and that got me really excited. But,
right now my main concern is graduating.”

By Nicole Watson

Dr. Gregory Pence, a medical ethicist from the University of Alabama Medical School, spoke to Davidson Medical Humanities Students on
Thursday about the controversial 1975 Kenneth Edelin abortion case. Dr. Pence told students that he had originally avoided “situational ethics,”
preferring to study medical ethics from a philosophical standpoint. However, he said that he learned that he had to pay
more attention to individual cases.individual cases after spending time doing rounds in a hospital. Dr. Pence urged the Medical Humanities
students to ponder these cases at college while they have the luxury of time. In telling the story of Kenneth
Edelin, Dr. Pence said that he especially wanted to convey the burden of decision placed on young residents at large
hospitals. Dr. Pence related the case in which Kenneth Edelin, a young resident at Boston City Hospital, was brought before
a grand jury on manslaughter charges after performing an abortion on Alice Roe. Alice Roe (not her real name) went
to Boston City Hospital for an abortion when she was about 28 weeks pregnant, but because of the unusual position
of the fetus, a regular abortion would threaten the mother’s life and a hysterotomy was deemed necessary.

The controversy arose when Enrique Geminez, another resident at the hospital, reported that Edelin opened up the woman, saw the
live fetus, then stared at the clock for two minutes instead of trying to induce self-respiration. The ability to breathe
independently is used by the government to define life, so Geminez went to the District Attorney and had Edelin brought
up on a charge of murder. A grand jury convicted Kenneth Edelin of manslaughter in 1975, but he appealed the
decision and appeared before the Massachusetts Supreme Court two years later.

In the first trial, the judge told the jury that there were two pertinent laws to the case. Under Massachusetts
law, a fetus becomes a person only when it comes out of the womb, and since Alice Roe’s baby never
came out of the womb, it never qualified as a person. Since a manslaughter charge cannot be brought up when
a person is not involved, many people thought that the jury’s conviction was racist, since Kenneth Edelin was black. The
Kenneth Edelin case was a very highly charged case in 1977, not long after Roe v. Wade. Of the seven
judges serving on the Massachusetts Supreme Court bench, four asked to be removed from the case because the evidence was
so confusing and controversial. Even Enrique Geminez’s testimony was refuted in court by nurses who said that he had not
been standing near Edelin, but in fact was outside the door. Kenneth Edelin was acquitted in 1977 because of the
Supreme Court judges who asked to be removed from the case. He is now a practicing doctor in the Boston
area.

Dr. Pence is a 1970 graduate of the College of William and Mary. He received his Ph.D. from New York
University in 1974, after which he taught in the New York area before going to teach philosophy at the University
of Alabama.

---

Need A Good Haircut? Come See Sylvia Beach At Scissors Salon (Beside Carolina Cones)
* Customized Haircuts
* Permanent Waves
* Sun Glitz Highlights
* Free Consultations Available
CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT 892-7476

---

OO RESTAURANT & TAVERN
Wide Screen TV
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL: Hwy. 73 West Norman
Landin Space Available for Private Parties
To Go Orders Available
American Express, Mastercard, & Visa Accepted
99 Draft
Dozen Wings for $1.99
892-0618
All ABC Permits
Laser Karaoke Every Wednesday Night 8:30pm-12:30am
(Limited menu available 10:00pm-12:30am)
