10 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Charlotte Symphony Faces Troubling Contract Dealings
By Susan Sheffield

Over the past month, The Charlotte Observer has reported extensively on the difficulties that the Charlotte Symphony is having. Negotiations between management and musicians have ground to a halt: originally, the contract players wanted to negotiate a six percent raise. The board of directors suggested a thirty percent cut. “The orchestra’s demands are wishful thinking,” Leo Driehuys, Conductor and Music Director, said, “and what the management proposes is an insult to the music profession.”

Since the arrival of Driehuys in 1977, the symphony has built itself into an organization ranked sixth among the thirty-six regional orchestras in the country. “We were happy that they didn’t fall off the stage in 1976,” he said. Granted, it is not a major orchestra like the New York Philharmonic or the Chicago Symphony, but then Charlotte is not quite the cultural mecca that large cities are. It also cannot offer a comparable financial base. While the budget has expanded from $600,000 fourteen years ago to $3.4 million now, there is currently an $800,000 deficit. This is due partly to the 1987 European tour, which occurred just as its sponsor fell into bankruptcy. This was only $160,000 of unexpected expense, however, so the resulting discrepancy may be attributed to mismanagement.

Unfortunately, attempts to remedy this sort of situation are often counterproductive to musical quality. According to Driehuys, a symphony of this size should have about 77 permanent players, with extra musicians being hired for performances of works by Beethoven or Mahler, for example, which require a larger orchestra. One management proposal suggests a reduction of contract players with a concomitant increase in part-time players. That should attract the cream of the crop.

September's Gallery
By Will Montgomery

Before I went to the Gallery Crawl last Friday night I stuffed my face with spanikopita, bougatza, and retsina wine at the Charlotte Greek festival. Several of the Classics abroad seminar '90 members and my bloated self reminisced about the sights and tastes of that magical country. That’s why I missed half of this season’s first Crawl. Yet I don’t regret staying so long since I thought most of the stuff in Spirit’s Square was not worth seeing anyhow. Of the bad art at Spirit Square I found the overbearing “messages” being pounded into my visual field most annoying. I guess all art is inherently political and message-laden. But throughout the evening instead of being subtly aesthetically encountered, artists and their semantics were bleeding on me, hammering me on the forehead, tugging on my heartstrings, and just trying too hard.

I will give Threads, an exhibit by Ann Rowles, a break, a review even. To start with, I'll get the hammer in the forehead out of the way. Maybe viewing art with a concussion makes it look cooler and more startling. Threads was both cool and startling for that matter. Her Artistic Statement reads as follows:

My work deals with the female body. For personal and political reasons I am interested in the natural form of female bodies which is unfortunately considered flawed by standards of contemporary American culture. I am acutely aware of how deeply those standards are internalized by women in our society... Clothing forms are inherently figurative.

Fortunately, her art does not bog down in her persona or politics. Unlike the structure of this article, I read that statement only after attending each of her nine pieces, and although I smelled.... “The board of directors is trying to compromise, for financial reasons of course, but still say, look what kind of an orchestra we have. It is ludicrous to try to balance this budget in one year at the expense of the musicians,” Driehyus said. The conductor takes no part in the negotiations other than to wait and see if he can maintain the same consistent quality to which he is accustomed. As for Charlotte’s aspirations to become a great cosmopolitan center, he says: “If Charlotte is going to pretend to be a world-class city, they cannot have only basketball, football, and baseball. They need to offer ballet, opera, and the symphony as well. To try to do this without cultural events is too silly even to mention. Can you imagine New York without the Philharmonic or the Metropolitan Opera? Would they say, ‘We have the Empire State Building and the World Trade Center, they’re nice enough’? Maybe they can start a professional bowling team to add to the city’s prestige,” Driehyus said.

Crawl More of a Stumble

Traces of F-ism, E-ism, C-ism, and T-ism, like that skunk that hides under the Lingle art studio, those oh-so pretentious odors were alluring rather than offensive. Kaboom! Vest was a brown vest covered with plastic army men, with GI Joe toy rocket launchers for buttons and frilly, exploding red yarn at the neck and arms. This one worked if only for my sentimental attachment to a typical American male childhood of frying army men with Raid and a candle, blowing them up with M-80’s, shooting at my neighbor’s dog with my bb gun, etc. Armored Vest-Reversible was another vest. It was covered on the outside with what appeared to be tin can bottoms, like a tuna can, cut into triangles of about an inch wide and two inches long. On the inside, long plastic glow worms, the kind used for fishing, were sewn beneath a transparent silken fabric. It had an aggressive, very porcupine look and might perhaps still smell like tuna. I-40 Corridor was an ankle-length dress with a pointedly ecological message. The front was covered in a lush, deep green collage of fabric while around the side and down from the neck crept the invading splotches of black and grey. The piece captured a sense of slow paranoia and violation. I felt the strongest piece was another vest called Vapor Barriers Intact: It expressed a strong sense of claustrophobia with orange fiberglass insulation quilted in clear plastic. Long strands of electrical wire were splayed anxiously from the neck and arms. By exposing

See "Crawl" on page 12.

Primus: Sailing the Seas of Cheese

Beware, ye soulless wearers of white lacrosse T-shirts, the seas of cheese are not easily navigated. Primus’ creative and highly energized interaction with his crazed and innovative guitar work. Get your school year off to a great start with a visit to The Village Store. We carry calendars and planners, all kinds, from The Far Side to Monet's Masterworks. Poster Frame Kits to fix up your room. Mugs to help fuel you through those late nights. And be sure to check out Shoebox Greetings' new College Humor line of greeting cards. We also offer a wide variety of fabulous gifts for any occasion.

110 South Main Street, Davidson. Historical Village Store Gift Certificates — September 825 every other school month.