10 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

Marlo Cobb poses with some cereal. The Incredi Photo by Chris Lee

Which Cereals Are Best?
By Marlo Cobb

Whether it’s a habit of yours or not, breakfast is very important. Just one bagel will keep reading skills, memory, and concentration abilities up to par until your next meal. Everyone knows about the health risks associated with eggs and bacon. No cereal could be nutritionally quite as bad, but some cereals have lower fat and salt contents and higher fiber than others. Look for cereals with less than 100 mg sodium, less than 2g fat, and with at least 2 grams of fiber per serving. I don’t know how many brands of cereal exist out there; I only looked at 25. They were: 100% Bran, 100% Natural Cereal, Bran Chex, Bran Flakes, Cap’N Crunch, Cheerios, Corn Flakes (Kellogg’s), Frosted Flakes, Frosted Mini-Wheats, Fruit ‘N Fibre (Harvest Medley), Grape-Nuts, Honey Nut Cheerios, Life, Muesli (Raisin, Date & Almond), Puffed Rice, Puffed Wheat, Total, Raisin Bran (Post; better for you than Kellogg’s), Rice Chex, Rice Krispies, Special K, Spoon Size Shredded Wheat, Strawberry Fruit Wheats, Sun Country Granola, and Wheaties.

Here are some results, in terms of fiber, fat, and salt content:

Fiber losers: Cap’N Crunch, Corn Flakes and Puffed Wheat (1g), Frosted Flakes, Honey Nut Cheerios, Puffed Rice, Rice Chex, Rice Krispies, and Special K (<1g).

Fiber winners: 100% Bran (20g), Bran Chex, Bran Flakes, and Fruit N’ Fibre (9g), 100% Natural, Grape-Nuts, and Raisin Bran (8g).

High-fat losers: 100% Natural (39% calories from fat), Sun Country Granola (30%), 100% Bran (25%), Cheerios (20%), Muesli (16%).

Low-fat: Bran Flakes, Corn Flakes, Frosted Flakes, Grape-Nuts, Puffed Corn, Puffed Wheat, Raisin Bran, Rice Krispies, Shredded Wheat, Special K, and Strawberry Fruit Wheats (0%).

High-sodium losers: Grape-Nuts (680mg), Bran Chex (450mg), 100% Bran (380mg), Bran Flakes, Fruit N’ Fibre, and Raisin Bran (360mg).

Low-sodium: Frosted Mini-Wheats, Puffed Rice, Puffed Wheat, Shredded Wheat (0mg), Sun Country Granola (27mg), Strawberry Fruit Wheats (30mg), 100% Natural (56mg). Everything else was over 220 mg.

Spoon Size Shredded Wheat, Frosted Mini-Wheats, and Strawberry Fruit Wheats are the overall winners on my list of 25 (as far as fat, salt, and fiber content are concerned). Fortified cereals, like Total, basically come with a vitamin pill in each serving, which isn’t a bad “extra” if breakfast is the most complete meal you’ll be having all day.

Weird Facts for the Week:
On sugar: The commercials for “pure cane sugar” are right -- it’s healthier than any substitute. Sugar only has around 15 calories per teaspoon, and one side effect of sugar substitutes like Equal and Sweet’N Low is that they actually increase cravings for real sugar. Also, studies have shown that the saccharin and aspartame in these sugar substitutes may be cancer-causing.

On fiber: The vegetable with the highest fiber content is a baked potato with its skin. On a nutritive level, Granola bars are one of the biggest food hoaxes ever; a Snickers bar contains more fiber than a Nature Valley Granola bar.

Music Review
Deee-Lite Is Delightful
By Joe Binns

Deee-Lite
World Clique
Elektra

The big stink in pop for the last week or so has been Deee-Lite (or, as one of my more eloquent associates put it, “the French chic and the two freaks”). Anyway, as I was driving home from Empress I was thinking how much I would like to hear “Groove is in the Heart.” “Groove is in the heart-- ayayayay,” the voice of Lady Miss Kier hadn’t left my head for two days. She was making it hard to concentrate, study, drive. I couldn’t enjoy other music-- even old favorites. Indeed I had cut the venerable Howlin’ Wolf...off midway through “Louise” and flung him to the floor mat on the ride in. But my means were slender. The checkbook balance read $8.75 after the seven-dollar buffet bill, and I knew I wouldn’t be getting a work/study check this month because I quit work/study three years ago. I had twenty-two dollars stashed between epiphanies in Portrait of the Artist... and this, my spring-break fund which was to get me to Florida in March, was in jeopardy. 

“Impulse,” he replied, and I completely understood. We are not so different—you and I. When you hear the tune, you too will want to possess it. But don’t shell out fifteen for the disc. The tape—maybe. The single—definitely. There simply isn’t much more to Deee-Lite than “Groove is in the Heart.” They are a product of Sampladelic productions, slapped together to profit from the demand for psychedelic dance/club music, which is the big stink on the U.K. club scene these days. They’re doing well in the states though, too. Lady Miss Kier Kirby has a face pretty enough to sell the disc in an age when the video can be more important than the song. As long as MTV keeps showing her, people will keep buying her. Sampladelic has covered her and her friends, Super DJ Dmitry and Jungle DJ Towa Towa, in enough paisleys, love beads, and polyester to keep her from being associated with the bubble heads (i.e., Samantha Fox, Jasmine Guy, etc.) typically used to rob the audience that has kept Vanilla Ice at number one for weeks. They have also attempted to build a mythology/terminology around the trio. It is an idea that worked well for another trio, De La Soul, but Deee-Lite’s “World Clique,” dominated by “grooves,” only makes them look ridiculous. 

But I have to credit Lady Miss Kier for her erotic, big city, slightly European voice. She is fitted for a better role than the one she plays. The DJs are skilled as well. Both spin creative, melodic tracks which complement Miss Kier’s voice, and they are laid back enough about it to keep from being annoying. Some of their cutting reminds me of Big Audio Dynamite’s best album Megatop Phoenix. A good track besides “Groove” is “Who Was That,” featuring Bootsy from now-defunct Parliament (of Funk). It bites on Sly & The Family Stone with Mary Jane Girls-ish vocals but is P. Court Late Night material. The rest of the songs on World Clique are either fun-with-synthesizers tunes or weak rhymes atop the same New York beats.

“Yeah,” I said to myself in a voice I didn’t recognize, “spring break isn’t that fun anyway. I’ll just hang out here at ol’ D.C. and watch some cable. It might be installed by then.” The craters at the entrance to D. Grier Martin Court ushered me back into my wits. What had I been thinking? Sacrifice sand, sun, and projectile vomiting with good friends in the Keys for one stupid song! No sir! Though enraged at having nearly been manipulated out of lifetime memories by that facinorous siren Miss Kier, I tenderly picked Mr. Wolf up off the floor and re-inserted him into the Kenwood. 

But I was just as mad at myself. How could I have been so stupid, so taken in and discomposed by a song? “Groove is in the Heart” is a good track, but it’s not worth sacrificing spring break for. Buy the single, this Deee-liteweight.