THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991 13

Campus Living

The Fine Art Of Persuasion

Homecoming, I’m beginning to notice a slightly worried expression on the faces of many of my peers. With no date, and only five days to go, desperation is setting in. There exists, however, no real cause for such concern. You can still go to Homecoming with an “authentic” Davidson date. You simply require a little forward planning and shrewdness. Since Davidson has more males than females, many girls are without dates. Therefore, the only option left is "kind persuasion." Show him the error of his ways, and you can logically conclude that many guys will also still be single. Unfortunately, these single guys neglected to authentically ask you to Homecoming. 

Why The Handbook Holdup?

By May Martin

Students, administrators, and professors alike were left empty-handed this fall without the traditional Wildcat Handbook. The handbook is usually sent out to the parents of incoming freshmen by August and is waiting for freshmen on their arrival to Davidson. This year, however, the handbook has yet to appear. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, the book will finally be on campus on October 30. The handbook, which contains pictures of the freshman class and a listing of their hometowns, also includes pictures of hall counselors and information newcomers to Davidson find useful, from nearby restaurants and churches to what to expect from your roommate. Last year’s handbook, edited by Andrea Bond, refers to the book as a freshman’s “bible and most important reference tool for the first few weeks of school.” It is useful to freshmen as a way to get to know the names and faces of their classmates, and to the faculty as a way to get to know their students. Assistant Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano said that “everything that could have gone wrong with the publication of the handbook went wrong.” The bulk of the work must be done over the summer, which is inconvenient for students to do. Terry noted that the handbook ends up being more work than one would expect. Getting the pictures all together is a task, especially when many freshmen do not send their pictures in. After this year’s delayed and difficult publication, Terry says that next year’s handbook may be handled in a different way. One possibility is to contract with an outside publisher.

Archives: Marc Overcash

If You Happen To Be In Chambers Late At Night... A Ghost Story

In honor of Halloween, I searched the Archives for a Davidson ghost story, but no luck. The only mention I found of ghosts were the ghost lines of Old Chambers, a phenomenon that only happens in hot dry weather. Perhaps we are just lucky: no grisly murders, no mysterious disappearances, and only a few scary-looking faculty. Davidson just doesn’t have any skeletons in her closets. But, she did have some in her pillars. It was a dark and stormy night. The students from the North Carolina Medical Center, which was located in Davidson [now out of existence] and used the college’s facilities, needed cadavers. Hearing that a body had been recently buried, a group of students crept their way into a church cemetery. Finding the grave, the students’ shovels picked away at the dead body’s new home. Steel ripped into the ground again and again until they struck wood. They scattered the remaining dirt aside and lifted up the coffin. Like one anxious to open a birthday present but afraid that he might not get what he wants, the students hesitated at this threshold of death then tore open the coffin. There was the body. Aware of the practice of grave-theft, the deceased’s family dis-

By Sara Lee Little

Have you ever wondered what that shady smell might be that floats over Davidson College every night (excluding Saturday night) at 7:00 pm? Well, I have the answer. Last month I was confronted with a difficult project in Sociology. My colleague, Taylor Smith, applied for a job to assist a certain slop collector for Patterson Court. Since I was a freshman, I have always been fascinated by the man who drives that 1959 Ford truck with barrels in the back. My good friend and I entered a job search and...covered the body missing a day or two later. Since it contained the dissecting room, Old Chambers was the obvious place to start the search. Hearing that the law was searching for the body, the students had to act quickly. One of the more unusual architectural characteristics of Old Chambers was that all four pillars were hollow. In one of these hollow pillars, the students dumped the body, added some lime, and probably whistled past the policeman. The body, buried for the second time that day, was never found. Well, never is a long time. The rumor of this event haunted generations of Davidson students. Groups of students would often dare others to climb down the pillars to see the body, but those who braved the pillar-tombs would be smoke-bombed by their peers or not have enough light to penetrate the darkness. At last, two friends, W. Durmas and “Skinny” Campbell, decided to end this mystery. While the college was attending a football game, these two climbed to the top of Chambers. Like a ghoulish Santa Claus, Durmas shimmied down one of the pillars and unearthed a skull. Skinny climbed down another pillar and discovered the skeleton. Some say that the legend of the medical students was false; these bones were just put in by a fraternity. Others claim that the pillars were depositories for the Medical School. The trustees point out that when the pillars were torn down, no bones were found. While others whisper that if you’re in Chambers late at night and you hear an odd howling noise, it is the ghost of Archibald looking for his bones.

My Adventures With The Pigman

A friend, Fran Vaughn, informed me that this mysterious man was Henry, “The Pigman.” Actually, Henry is a pigman on the side. Most students affiliate him with the BP station on Main Street where Henry is an auto mechanic. I remember watching Henry make his rounds on Patterson Court. He would always hang out in our kitchen during house meetings. Every week I wondered what the man dressed in green was doing with the garbage cans. In house meetings we discovered that he collected “slop,” leftovers from the dinners at the eating houses and fraternities, and fed it to his pigs. However, there was one question nagging in my mind. Did this man really have pigs, or was it a complete scam? The Sociology project gave me an opportunity to investigate the pigman and his truck filled with slop. Taylor and I met Henry at 6:05 on a Tuesday night to begin our rounds. We dressed for the occasion.

See "Pigman" On Page 14

Sexuality & Health

Oma Blaise

Gyn. Exam - The regular gynecologic examination is an invaluable part of preventive health care for women. This annual visit to a gynecologist helps ensure early detection of life-threatening diseases, such as breast, ovarian, and cervical cancer, as well as STDs which may lead to these conditions. The routine exam also helps to determine what “normal” functioning of the body is for each individual so that abnormalities in this functioning can be more easily recognized.

The first gynecologic exam should take place at the age of eighteen or when a woman first becomes sexually active, whichever comes first. This first exam usually includes education about the body, discussion of specific concerns of the patient, and counseling regarding health risk factors and lifestyle habits, as well as the regular components of the actual examination.

The examination itself generally consists of the following things: a pelvic exam, a Pap smear, and a breast exam.