THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 1991

Boston Dean Resigns After Plagiarism Accusation

BOSTON (CPS) -- A Boston University dean submitted his resignation after he was accused of copying a film critic’s work
in a spring commencement speech. H. Joachim Maitre, dean of the school’s College of Communication, resigned in a letter to
president John Silber. In a July 12 letter, Maitre said he intended to credit the film critic in his commencement
speech, but simply forgot. The issue came to light after The Boston Globe printed excerpts of the speech. Silber said
he could not excuse the dean’s plagiarism, even if it was inadvertent.

Hazing Nets Fraternity Members Jail Time

AUSTIN (CPS) -- An initiation ritual has resulted in jail terms for three members of a University of Texas fraternity.
Matthew Dennis of Kingwood, Texas, Richard Asel of Plano, Texas, Todd Bowden of Dallas, and Christopher Temple of Houston, pled
guilty to misdemeanor charges of hazing. Dennis and Temple each were ordered July 9 to spend thirty days in jail,
and Asel 15 days. Bowden received a $300 fine and probation. The fraternity members were accused of beating Mark Sanders,
a pledge from Fort Worth, Texas, with a paddle so severely that Sanders’ lower spine was fractured. The Sigma Nu
chapter has been abolished from the campus. Meanwhile, an investigation by the county attorney’s office into hazing misconduct at the
Austin Campus has resulted in $120,000 fines being levied against chapters of Phi Gamma Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha, and Beta
Theta Pi.

Former Lacrosse Players Acquitted in Sexual Attack

NEW YORK (CPS) -- A jury has acquitted three former St. John’s University lacrosse players of all charges in an
alleged sexual attack on a young woman. The jury deliberated six days before returning the verdict July 23. Jurors later
told news organizations that there were too many inconsistencies in the case to render convictions on any of the charges,
which ranged from first-degree sodomy, sexual abuse, and sexual misconduct to unlawful imprisonment in connection with the March 1, 1990
incident at an off-campus house. Walter Gabrinowitz, 23, Andrew Draghi, 22, and Matthew Grandinetti, also 22, were cleared on all
counts. Two other men await trial on charges. The woman claimed that she was rendered unconscious by a drink of
vodka and orange juice. The defense claimed that the woman consented to what took place.

ROTC Selects New Cadet Officers

Courtesy of the ROTC office

The Army Reserve Officer Training Corps at Davidson College has announced the selection of the cadet chain of command for
the school year 1991-1992. Davidson senior John Howell has been named Cadet Battalion Commander. John will wear the rank of
Cadet Lieutenant Colonel and will command the "Carolina Foothills Battalion" which includes cadets from Davidson College, UNC-Charlotte, and eleven other
colleges in South-Central North Carolina. Lieutenant Colonel John Moncure, Professor of Military Studies, announced the new cadet officers on 18
August at a special meeting of the ROTC senior class. Cadet officers will lead the Corps of Cadets throughout the
year. Newly appointed Davidson College cadet officers are as follows: John Howell - Battalion Commander; Mark Swofford - Battalion Executive
Officer; William Flora - Battalion Command Sergeant Major; Sydney Smith - Battalion Adjutant; Kevin Griggs - Battalion Operations Officer; Grady
Sessoms - Battalion Training Officer; Warner Wells - Battalion Training Officer; Mac Grimes - Battalion Logistics Officer; Jim Leesch -
Battalion Supply Officer; Ted Richardson - Battalion Public Affairs Officer - Davidson; Amy Zielke - Battalion Public Affairs Officer -Off-Campus;
Gregory Wormouth - Commander, Headquarters Company; Chan Sheppard - Commander, Cadet Ranger Organization; Chris Henderson - Platoon Leader, 2nd Platoon;
Will Pender - 3rd Platoon Leader.

Homer Sutton Named Interim Dean of Admissions

By Tom Price

On July 22, Robert Gardner resigned as Dean of Admissions of Davidson College. Gardner will assume the duties of Vice-President
at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington. Dr. Homer B. Sutton, associate professor of French, was named as an interim
replacement for Gardner. Sutton’s term is for one year or until a replacement is found. The college is conducting a
nationwide search for a permanent replacement. In an effort to compile a complete list of all potential candidates, the college
has enlisted the help of an Atlanta consulting firm. After a complete list of possible replacements has been compiled, a
committee will be formed on campus to make the final selection.

When asked whether he will miss teaching, Sutton replied, “I am enjoying this experience, but I intend to return to
the classroom.” Sutton did not believe that the timing of the change in Deans would affect Davidson’s efforts to recruit
the most qualified students. He commends the “very professional staff” in the admissions office for helping him to “hit the
ground running.”

When asked about goals for the admissions office during his tenure, Sutton said that his main goal was to push
the number of applicants beyond this year’s record level of 2,350. Another goal will be to continue the effort to
diversify the student body by seeking out qualified international students and by geographically broadening the scope of Davidson’s recruiting.

Sutton is a 1971 graduate of Davidson. Following graduation, he studied at Indiana University, where he received his master’s degree
in French literature in 1975 and his Ph.D. in 1979. Sutton returned to Davidson in 1980 to teach and also
serve as the resident director of Davidson’s program in Montpellier. Since 1983, he has served as coordinator for Davidson’s office
of study abroad.

Sutton has served as chairman of the Council on Admissions and Financial Aid. He called this experience the “best preparation
possible” for his new post. Sutton has also served as the faculty representative to the Davidson trustee committee on admissions
and financial aid.

While announcing Sutton’s appointment, Davidson president John Kuykendall said, “Homer Sutton’s long familiarity with admissions at Davidson makes him a
natural choice. We are grateful to him for this most recent instance of his willingness to serve Davidson.” Due to
the enormity of his new position, Sutton will have to leave the classroom for the coming year.

NORMAN CROSSING

That means fresh and fabulous sandwiches and salads made right before your eyes, topped with free extras of your choice.

BUY ONE GET ONE FOR ONLY 99¢

Buy one get one free. With this coupon (one per person). Offer expires 8/30/91.

NORMAN CROSSING

EXIT 28 I-77 AND HWY 73

Need A Good Haircut?

Come See Sylvia Beach At Scissors Salon (Beside Carolina Cones)

* Customized Haircuts
* Permanent Waves
* Sun Glitz Highlights
* Free Consultations Available

CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT 892-7476

Shops on the Green: Exit 28, I-77 and HWY 73

10% Off Camping Equipment & Clothing with Davidson ID (Does not include sale merchandise).
