MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991 Sports 13

Shortstop Rick Bender Blasts the ball home
Photo By Lee Pennington

Baseball Splits Pair With Lafayette
By ALAN ROSSELOT and DAN COTTON

For the second Saturday in a row, Davidson’s baseball team played a high-scoring, exciting game at Wildcat Park. This time,
the Wildcats (8-12, 5-8 in the Big South) were victorious over Lafayette 10-9. In this game, the second of a
doubleheader, the Cats broke a three-game losing streak by scoring in every inning but the sixth. The game-winning run came
in the bottom of the seventh when Mike Liebdzinski singled home pinch-runner Paul Brannon with one out. Liebdzinski also was
the winning pitcher, pitching 1 and 1/3 scoreless innings to improve his record to 1-3.

For the game, the Cats picked up fourteen hits and committed one error, while Lafayette got eleven hits and committed
six errors. Hot hitters for Davidson included Joe Azzolino (3-5, 2 runs, 2 RBIs) and Dan Cotton (3-4, 2 runs,
1 double). In addition, Ralph Isernia scored three runs and Tim Kerns drove in two.

In the first game, the Wildcat bats were not quite as active. In rolling to a 10-0 victory, Lafayette pitchers
held the Cats to two hits; Leopard starter Bob Pogyer pitched five hitless innings. Wildcat center fielder Jazz Freitas finally
broke up the no-hit bid with a sixth-inning single off Lafayette reliever Scott Werkhoven. Davidson starter Brad Wanzenberg fell to
2-2 as he yielded thirteen hits and all ten runs.

The doubleheader split brought the Cats to 2-3 on the week. Previously, the Cats dropped two of three at Winthrop
in conference play. After winning the first game of the series 7-4, Davidson returned to Winthrop for a doubleheader the
following day. Winthrop swept the Cats, winning 7-3 and 5-4.

In the Davidson victory, the Cats scored four runs in the top of the ninth to overcome a 4-3 deficit.
Davidson hitters struck for seven singles in the inning, with Azzolino knocking in two runs. Azzolino also hit his third
homer of the year in the sixth inning. Wanzenberg pitched a solid game, going eight innings to pick up his
second win of the year. He allowed seven hits, but none after the fourth inning.

In the first game of the doubleheader, Dave Williams (3-1) took his first loss of the year. In the second
game, reliever Mike Liebdzinski took his third loss after replacing Jim Stanfill. Stanfill has no decisions in four starts. In
that second game, Winthrop scored a run in the bottom of the seventh to break a 4-4 tie. Rick Bender
had hit his fourth homer of the year with 2 outs in the seventh to even the game at four.

The Cats will look for warmer weather and better luck as they continue an eight-game homestand. This week, the Cats
face the Duke Blue Devils on Tuesday. Charleston Southern then rolls into town for a three-game conference series over the
weekend.

FILL THIS SPACE
WRITE FOR SPORTS
CALL BRUCE x6217 or ROBERT x6181

Men's Tennis Slaughters
by ROBERT GRUBB

The men’s tennis team gained their first victory of the spring season last Monday against Kenyon. The Wildcats started out
slowly, still reeling from opening the season with...Six straight losses, but soon regained their confidence, going on to win 9-0.
Kenyon was ranked among the top twenty Division III teams in the country. “We started out slowly for a couple
of reasons,” said Coach Jeff Frank. “The team had nearly a week off since our last match, and we haven’t
had a win all year, so I think we had a lack of confidence.” Albie Varoski, leading the team at
the number one singles slot, regained some of his confidence with his first victory of the season. At number two,
David Jespersen also came on very strong. Jespersen lost the first set in a tie-breaker, then fell behind in the
second set before rallying to gain a three-set victory. John Beyer also pulled out a three-set victory for the ‘Cats.
After losing the first set 7-5, Beyer took control and dominated the next two sets, winning them 6-0, 6-0. In
addition to improved singles play, the Wildcats brought out a new doubles lineup against Kenyon. Beyer and Kurtis Zabell remained
in the number one slot, and they won their match. Dale Voeks moved up from number three doubles to number
two with his new partner Russell Briggs. The pair won their match easily and were in control the whole way,
according to Frank. At third doubles, Frank paired his top two singles players, Varoski and Jespersen. Playing together for only
the third time, the two struggled but gained a straight-set victory. Frank is excited about the possibilities of this combination.
“They will be able to beat a lot of number three doubles teams just with the pace they put on
the ball,” said Frank. “Jespersen needs to improve his volleying and mid-court play to reach the next level of play
in singles, and playing doubles will help him get there.” The Wildcats return to action today with a match against
another nationally ranked Division III team when they take on Washington College. Washington’s lineup includes the top Division III singles
player in the country. The Wildcats will go up against Sewanee on Thursday. “Sewanee is a grudge match for us
because the last time we played, we lost all three doubles matches and lost the match 5-4 after leading 4-2,”
said Frank. The team opens its Big South season against Charleston Southern on Friday and goes up against Washington and
Lee on Sunday.

OVERHEARD
“We would be damned fools not to go back” - senior Thomas Grant, referring to Davidson’s possible return to the
Southern Conference.

“You have got the greatest fans. Look at them all with shakers and balloons all around standing and yelling for
their team.” - Coastal Carolina cheer sponsor Kim Grant, during Davidson’s semifinal loss to Coastal Carolina in the Big South
Tournament.

DAVIDSONIANS! 'Tis the season for SHORTS and KNIT TOPS, and all cotton khakis. Come see our great selections, by Woolrich,
Berle, Duckhead, and Tailors' Bench and present this Ad and receive our special introductory offer 25% OFF any single item
purchase (Offer Expires 3-30-91)

Our 79th Continuous Year
John Mack & Son
Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN
128 North Main St.
Downtown Mooresville
Phones 664-4711 or 663-3701
