THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Davidson Arts

Christa Faut Gallery Exhibiting "Outsider Artists”
By Stewart Lathan

This month, the Christa Faut gallery, located at 129 Main Street in Davidson, will be exhibiting a show highlighting four “outsider artists.” The exhibit, entitled “Survival, Evasion, and Escape,” is curated by Roger Manley, who graduated from Davidson in 1974. Manley, who came to Davidson from Nevada, became interested in outsider art “completely by accident.”

Manley recalls that on a break during his Freshman year, he hitchhiked to the Outer Banks. The man who picked him up in his truck suggested that he go meet his grandmother, at which time Manley first came into contact with outsider art. This man’s grandmother turned out to be Annie Hooper, who had created over 5000 Biblical sculptures. Manley began to take photographs of this woman’s awe-inspiring work. From there, people began to tell Manley of other people who were creating similar kinds of art. Manley, today, is considered North Carolina’s leading authority on the subject. He recently published a book entitled Signs and Wonders, which coincided with an exhibit in the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh.

The popularity of outsider art has grown quite rapidly in the past decade. Artists such as Rev. Howard Finster, Grandma Moses, and Linda Anderson have become familiar personalities throughout the country’s museums and galleries. Manley explains the premise behind these unique artists’ work: “Outsider art is done to satisfy no one but the individual. Most often they have no concept, initially at least, of themselves as artists or their work as art.” Instead, these folk artists feel some inner, naive compulsion to create these extraordinary images and sculptures. Typically, most of these artists are older, highly spiritual, completely untrained in the arts, and have experienced some life-altering, traumatic event. In this way, their art becomes a means of “survival, evasion, and escape.” It is Manley’s belief that these artists are not merely answering to a calling from God, or simply crazy, but rather they are attempting to work out the problems which society has provided for them.

The four artists which Manley has chosen to include in the show are Gary Gurganus, Sudie Johnson, Clyde Jones, and Georgia Blizzard. Both Gurganus and Johnson will be exhibiting for the first time. This show should prove to be a unique opportunity for students to experience some of the most important art of our time. The exhibit will open on Friday, September 13 and will run through October 12.

Cultural Investigation: Black Film Festival Comes to J.C. Smith
By Brenda Tapia

On Tuesday, September 10th, Johnson C. Smith University will begin its 1991-92 African/African American Film Series. The film series will present eight feature-length films and one short film during this academic year. It takes those films created by Africans as well as those films growing out of the diaspora of African peoples in the Americas. It includes feature-length works, documentaries, short films, and animation. It also seeks to showcase the works of independent and experimental filmmakers.

The films being shown are as follows:

September 10 -- Killer of Sheep (1977). Directed by Charles Burnett, recipient of a 1988 MacArthur Foundation Fellowship. Set in Los Angeles, “Killer of Sheep” is the story of Stan, a man working in a meat-packing plant and struggling to keep his sanity and self-respect. He barely earns enough to support the wife and children to whom he has become emotionally numb.

October 10 -- Quilombo (1984). Directed by Carlos Diegues, it tells the story of the “Quilombo dos Palmares” (The Black Nation of Palm Trees), who established an independent republic within Brazil that existed for nearly a century after the first American slave revolt in 1641. This was the first democratic society in the Western Hemisphere, and Diegues traces its development from African roots, customs, and rituals. Exciting Samba Score!

November 12 -- Ashes and Embers (1982). Directed by Haile...Gerima. It is the story of a Vietnam veteran who, almost a decade after the war, comes to terms with his role in the war and his role as a Black man in America.

December 10 -- Mapantsula (1988). Directed by Oliver Schmitz. Endorsed by the African National Congress and banned by South African authorities, "Mapantsula" tells the story of a street-wise hustler named Panic, who lives by stealing from anyone who looks like an easy target and by exploiting his girlfriend. He uses the apartheid system and its brutality as a means of survival until he is arrested during a demonstration.

January 14 -- Tilai (1990). Directed by Idrissu Quedraogo. The story of a man called Saga who returns home after two years to be told that his fiancée, Nogma, has been married off to his father. Secretly, he resumes his relationship with his new stepmother despite the fact that this incestuous liaison is punishable by death.

February 14 -- God's Stepchildren (1938). Directed by Oscar Micheaux. This film traces the melodramatic story of Naomi, a light-skinned mulatto who wants to be white from her schooldays, through her marriage, her attempt to pass for white, and finally her suicide. God's Stepchildren became a source of controversy in 1938 with its exploration of light-skinned and dark-skinned prejudice, a theme revisited by Spike Lee’s School Daze.

March 13 -- To Be Announced.

April 14 -- Ceddo (1977). Directed by Ousmane Sembene. This film explores colonialism, slavery, and domination as the common people are aroused to resistance when one of their numbers kidnaps the king’s daughter. Rivalries are sparked at the court among different, self-interested advisors to the king. On the fringes of this court struggle lurk a European slave trader and a Catholic missionary waiting to take advantage of the situation.

All films in the series will be shown twice: first, on the Johnson C. Smith campus at 3:00 p.m. and, second, the same evening at 7:00 p.m. at the Afro-American Cultural Center. The evening showing will be followed immediately by a discussion. This film series is designed to provide an opportunity for people in Charlotte and the surrounding areas to see, discuss, and gain an understanding of Black cinema and the cultures out of which it has grown. It is hoped that the series will educate participants about Black films and filmmaking in Africa and the Americas, and that it will also serve as a means to explore African, South American, Caribbean, and North American cultures via film.

Matt Bumstead: Whistlin' Dixie

Garth Brooks: Staying in High Places

It seems he can do no wrong. Every song he sings is a smash. One year ago, his album No Fences went platinum the day it was released, and it has been the number one country album in the U.S. for almost every week since that time. Last May, the eight-month-old album was, for a time, the top-selling album of any format in the nation, and it is now in the area of five times platinum (a mark unheard of in country music).

Brooks’ current wave of success, however, has everyone wondering, “How long can he last?” No male singer (again look at Randy Travis) can stay in the lead for very long, no matter how good his music; and it seems Brooks can only go down from here. With the release of his third album on Capitol Records, Garth Brooks will attempt a very difficult feat.

In the interest of trying to provide an exclusive album review (the album is not even released yet), I journeyed to Coyote Joe’s in Charlotte to attend the WTDR 96.9 event. Ritchie, their music director, was giving you the circumstances by which it comes to you.