14 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

Sports

Davidson Soccer Ready For Season Of High Expectations

By TOM PRICE

The excitement surrounding Davidson soccer has reached an all-time high. The success of last year’s squad has caused expectations to soar as the ‘Cats enter the 1991 season. Head coach Charlie Slagle is thrilled by the enthusiasm surrounding his program and believes that the high expectations are justified.

Last year’s team posted a 15-7-2 record while gaining wins over nationally ranked opponents such as Duke and the University of South Carolina. Slagle makes it clear that the team’s goal for 1991 is to earn a bid to play in the NCAA tournament. Last year’s team received careful consideration by the selection board but was not selected as one of the 28 teams for the tournament despite finishing the season ranked 21st in the nation.

The ‘Cats schedule is once again a rigorous one. They will play 6 teams who were invited to the NCAA tournament last year and every one of their opponents is a Division 1 school. Slagle prefers a difficult schedule for two reasons. First, he wants to provide the fans with the best soccer in the country. Second, the quality of the schedule matters a great deal to the NCAA selection committee. Although certain wins would obviously weigh more heavily than others, Slagle believes that if his team can win 14 games this year they should have an excellent shot at being invited.

The first five games will provide the ‘Cats a tough test. Junior stopper Matt Spear commented, “Without a doubt, we have one of the most challenging schedules in the nation, which our first five games clearly demonstrate.” On September 8 the team opens the season at the University of South Carolina. The Gamecocks are ranked #9 in the preseason national rankings. Coach Slagle expressed his hope that many Davidson students will make the trip to the Sunday afternoon game. The second game of the year will be in Chapel Hill where the ‘Cats will take on the 10th ranked Tar Heels. It doesn’t get much easier after these first two challenges. The next two games will be at a tournament in Richmond where Davidson will face 19th ranked Columbia and 17th ranked Richmond. On September 8, the Wildcats will finally return home to face the 11th ranked Duke Blue Devils. This game, along with 5 of the other 7 home games, will be played on the newly remodeled Richardson field. Over the past year, lights have been added and a segment of the track removed to prepare the football field for soccer action at night. At the Duke game, the athletic department is hoping to break the soccer attendance record of 1,357, which was set last year during Homecoming.

Conference play in the Big South will also be challenging. While Radford, Coastal Carolina, and Davidson appear to be the strongest teams, other schools such as Campbell, UNC-Asheville, and Winthrop also figure to be competitive. The Radford game should be particularly fun for the fans because it will feature two of the most prolific scorers in college soccer. Radford’s Dante Washington was the nation’s leading scorer last year, while Davidson’s Rob Ukrop placed third. Ukrop will once again lead the Wildcat attack. After his 22 goals and his recognition as a 2nd team All-American last season, coach Slagle realizes that Rob will draw a lot of attention from the opponent’s defense. Last year he had a team-high 12 assists, but Slagle is

Field Hockey Will Keep Crown

By CHRIS HOOD

In 1990, Davidson’s Field Hockey team enjoyed its most successful season ever by posting a 14-1-2 record and capturing the Deep South Tournament. Although the Wildcats could easily kick back their paws and enjoy the benefits of their outstanding 1990 campaign, this year’s squad instead faces what should be the toughest season in school history. Davidson’s 1991 schedule, which begins at home against the University of the South on September 8, includes powers such as James Madison, Virginia Commonwealth, Richmond, and Duke.

“You don’t get better unless you play better teams,” said head coach Betsy Pryor. “We’ve gone as far as we can in the Deep South; that’s the reason for our tougher schedule.” With only two players gone from last year’s squad, the 1991 edition of the ‘Cats will rely on experience and leadership from its members. “We have lots of experience on this team,” said Pryor. “The girls are very strong individuals and are a very close team.” Pryor also praised the freshmen, who are adapting quickly to the college game and will add a great deal ofdepth to the squad. The club’s aim is to earn a spot in the South Region rankings. But because the South is regarded as the most difficult region in the nation, cracking the top 6 will be quite a challenge. “We want to hang with the best teams to prove where our program has gone,” said junior sweeper Jennifer Roos, Davidson’s Most Valuable Player last season. “I think we have a great team,” said sophomore goalkeeper Emily Coleman, “but we will have to make a lot of adjustments.” For the ‘Cats, though, the most difficult adjustment may be an off-field situation. Coach Pryor has been forced to remain at home due to complications with pregnancy since the day before practice began. She will be unable to see the team in action for at least two months. “I hope to be back for the Deep South Tournament,” said Pryor. In the interim, assistant coach Betsy Brown has taken over the helm for Davidson. She runs practices and prepares the team on the field in between video sessions and discussions with Pryor. “I talk with Coach Pryor every day,” said Brown, who played for Pryor in high school. “I know her philosophy and style pretty much, but it’s good to have her as a safety net. I was pretty overwhelmed at first, but we pretty much have the situation well in hand.” Especially considering the challenging and difficult circumstances, Brown appears to be doing an outstanding job. “Coach Brown is doing a great job of keeping the team together,” said senior wing Mary Russ, who shares the duties of team captain with senior center Beth Pharr. On the field, the ‘Cats could have a balanced attack. Roos (9 goals) and junior inside forward Simone Plaisance (8 goals) will help to anchor the offense while See “Hockey” on page 15 confident that Rob can take advantage of the double and triple-teaming of the opposition and have even more assists this year. Despite his individual achievements, Ukrop remains focused on the team goals. He explained the keys to success this year, “We need to build on last season and maintain the team chemistry that allowed us to overcome teams that sometimes had more talent.” More specifically, Ukrop feels that Matt Spear’s leadership on defense and Lance Long’s ability to score goals on the offensive end will be key elements in the team’s success. Senior Co-Captain Lance Long will be making a switch from the “sweeper” spot to play in one of the offensive midfield positions. Long is a strong candidate for All-South honors this season. Robert Malinzak, David Neiland, Phelps Sprinkle, Preston Yarborough, Glenn Smith, Andy Haile, Mike Newton, and freshman Zack Eastman will also be significant offensive contributors. Junior Lance Kinerk also figures to make a large contribution if he can recover from mononucleosis. Senior Spider Wormuth and sophomore John Sampers will start in the midfield. Other midfield players will be Preston Yarborough, Ben Hayes, Mike Newton, Andy Schwab, and freshman Tommy Sutter. Slagle considers defense to be the team’s strength. The defense is indeed solid with All-South candidates Matt Spear, Craig Omli, and Cliff Castelloe returning. Sophomore Ed Denning will also play a significant role in Davidson’s defense. The goalkeeper spot is still “up for grabs,” but the ‘Cats are sure to remain strong in this position. Currently, Senior Doug Long and freshmen Alex Deegan and Neal Andrews are all playing well. Long has valuable college experience, but both Deegan and Andrews have excellent high school credentials. Coach Slagle admits that he has never been more excited about a team entering the season. He explained that last year’s success “kind of fell on us,” but this year the players are aware of what they can do. Their determination has been reflected in their off-season work. Slagle says the players returned in “the best shape I’ve ever seen.” This allowed the team to skip pre-season fitness tests. Slagle explains, “They weren’t necessary and all it would have done was take away a day of practice.” The ‘Cats seem focused and Slagle doesn’t hesitate to commend his players. “The intensity during practice has been superb,” he commented. Matt Spear summed up the team’s outlook on the ’91 season, “Last season’s success gained us credibility. I hope that success this season will solidify our position in the national limelight.” 

Sane Classic 4:00 pm U. Virginia Diadora 7 vs. Boston College 8 vs. Virginia or Radford 1:00 or 3:00 pm 10 @ Elon 4:00 pm 14 GUILFORD 4:00 pm 16 GARDNER-WEBB 21 @ James Madison 25 @ UNC-Greensboro