20

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Senator Cleo Fields Discusses Cajun Politics

By Jay J. Chaudhuri

In a high Jacksonesque style of delivery, the Honorable Cleo Fields of Louisiana urged black students to continue their education
and get involved in community service. “Knowledge is power,” said Fields. “The challenge today for the black person today is
to do your very best against the odds.” The Senator also advised Davidson students to become active in local politics.
“There is no reason that a student from Davidson cannot be mayor of this town.”

Fields, after completing law school, was elected to the State Senate at the age of 24. Today he devotes at
least one hour of his day to giving speeches around the community. Fields also ran for the U.S. Congress but
was defeated. The Senator was invited as a speaker for Black History Month. This text contains excerpts from questions asked
by the audience.

Middle East

Q. Your views on the Persian Gulf War?

A. I have a lot of constituents in the Middle East. Before we committed, I was part of the group
calling for economic sanctions to do everything not to have a war. Once the war began, I supported the soldiers.
It’s best not to be divisive. The troops need support from America.

David Duke

Q. Could you comment on the U.S. Senatorial election between Johnson and David Duke which gained so much national attention?

A. Senator Johnson is not the kind of candidate who could excite a lot of people. Mr. Duke had more
charisma. Duke will probably run for Governor and lose and run for the President of the United States and lose.
“DD,” as I call him, will not last long in Louisiana politics. DD is being dealt with. I’m like the
Patriot missile and Duke’s bill is like a Scud. He sends a bill in the House and the legislature sends
me to shoot it down. He’s able to produce nothing. We will see that the people of that district are
dealt with fairly.

Politics

Q. Why did you get involved in politics?

A. I wanted to do politics from an innovative perspective. I want to do something different. We need more young
folks.

Black Educational Institutions

Q. Do you feel education for a black student at a traditionally black institution is better?

A. I look at education as being color blind. I can appreciate predominantly black institutions not just for athletics but
academics. I have a problem with a “big dog” university that accepts a student with low ACT scores but can
put a little round ball in the hoop or throw a little ball. But if a student wants to be
a doctor with a slightly above average ACT score, they have to be welcomed by black institutions. Too many people
say bad things about black institutions. The problem is when black and white institutions meet and one figures out who
is better than the other. Legislation shouldn’t let one institution receive more money than another.

Minority Scholarships

Q. Your perspective on those who believe we should eliminate minority scholarships?

A. There is a need for minority scholarships. First of all, minority is a “code word.” They look at it
as Black but it’s not only Blacks, but Hispanics, Asian Americans, women. I think there’s a need for folks who
have been discriminated against but I say don’t depend on them. I hope I can wake up one morning and
not get up under the dark cloud of affirmative action.

Racism on Campus

Q. Could you comment on racism on college campuses?

A. I introduced a bill that made freshmen orientations at Louisiana colleges include something on race relations. For some students,
the first time they encounter students from other parts of the world are on college campuses. For instance, I remember
being at Southern and sitting next to a foreign student. I think it’s good that we have this kind of
legislation. We will have fewer problems socially. When “DD” was elected it swept across the state: blacks swearing at whites
and whites swearing at blacks. We had to go on campus and try to resolve things.

I went to civics class three weeks ago and the class thought America was the only country in the world.
There was something wrong with their teacher. This is why we need to foster social understanding.

Black Politics

Q. What is the future of black politics in this country?

A. More blacks are running for office and more blacks are winning. People need to realize that black people did
not come on a different boat. We’re all in the same boat and that boat is sinking and we’re all
drowning. If America is to survive, she needs to elect candidates who can create community, have the ability to serve
and understand the issues. She cannot elect candidates according to color.

Photos By Holt Hathaway
