Che Davidsonian
"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
VOLUME LXXXII MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991 NUMBER 13

Photo by Holt Hathaway
Union custodian Verdie Barringer smiles after placing in a national poetry contest. See her — and story on Page 10 in Campus Living.

Students Abroad Could Become Terrorist Targets
College Press Service

The biggest success in higher education this year - the boom in foreign study programs - may become its biggest nightmare. Some of the 60,000 - 70,000 Americans studying abroad this year could become targets of terrorists in a Persian Gulf war, or at least find it hard to get home because of the war.

With the onset of war, students and parents flooded campus study abroad offices with questions about their safety. The concerns, however, have not translated into trip cancellations, foreign study directors maintain.

“Obviously, we have had questions from parents and students,” said Gary Johnston, head of the study abroad program at the University of Arizona. “But as far as I know it hasn’t affected enrollment.”

“We are seeing a lot of concern on the part of students and parents,” admitted Jeff Bliss, spokesman for Pepperdine University in California. “But, we’re not seeing a drop in enrollment. In fact, all programs are filled to capacity.”

Pepperdine students and professors, along with those of six other U.S. universities with programs in Florence, Italy, recently received nearly identical letters threatening them with reprisal if the United States went to war with Iraq. Students and faculty from Georgetown, Syracuse, California State, Florida State, and the University of Michigan also received the threats.

Italian authorities investigating the group, which calls itself the “Secret Popular Revolutionary Movement,” advised the students to keep a low profile, even though they believe it was a hoax.

“At this point, they don’t know if it was serious or not,” said State Department spokeswoman Nyda Novodvorsky. “They’re inclined to think it’s a hoax. Of course, we haven’t invaded Iraq, either,” she noted four days before the United Nations deadline.

In April 1986, following the U.S. bombing of Libya, numerous colleges, including Stephens, St. John’s, Bates, Yale, and Union College, cancelled all or part of their summer abroad programs. Business and leisure travelers, if not students, sharply curtailed trips to the Middle East and Europe during the first two weeks of January. Many of those who did go switched from U.S. airlines, travel observers said.

Advanced bookings for European travel, for instance, have dropped 25 to 50 percent in recent weeks, reported Roger Ballou, of American Express’s Travel Related Services Group. Officials there cite security concerns as well as economic slowdown and higher costs.

Continued on Page 2

Religion Professor Says Muslim Concept Of Evil Supports Iraqi Rage
By Lisa Gerrard
Courtesy of College Relations

Saddam Hussein may fall to allied forces, but the bitter resentment many Iraqis feel against America may endure for generations to come - and with renewed religious fervor, says Bill Mahony, a Davidson College associate professor of religion.

Mahony believes that Americans must become more aware of the religious dimensions of this crisis in order to reduce the long-term number of casualties. Islamic faith views history as revealing an ongoing struggle between good and evil. Many Muslims in Iraq and neighboring regions have come to associate the United States with the evil forces, a fact that most Americans don’t understand.

“Viewing events from this deep-set vision of a dualistic world, the people of the region are not necessarily going to respond to American military actions by surrendering immediately,” he said at a recent campus gathering. “They are likely to straighten their backs even more and continue in their anger long past any political resolution.”

Mahony has published many articles on world religions and served as an editor of the “Encyclopedia of Religion.” He has studied and taught Islam, the faith of 95 percent of Iraqi people, for 18 years. He says the reasons behind the rage against the West in general and America in particular lie in the history and religious views of this land. From their forbears, Muslims inherited an essentially pessimistic worldview. “Babyloniansand Mesopotamians who live in the area that is now Iraq deeply felt a lack of control over their environment from the beginning,” Mahony said. “They saw the afterlife as being radically different from the present,” he said. “One of the ancient Mesopotamian prayers illustrates this view: ‘May tomorrow be better than today.’ 

“The present anger also emerges from the long history of the region since the Crusades. From the Islamic point of view, the West has frequently, and at times violently, told the Arab nations what to do,” Mahony said. “If you look at a map of the region you see all the boundaries are straight lines that were drawn by the British and the French. But for many centuries this Islamic-Arabic area was the most accomplished and civilized in the world, so they suffered a great feeling of indignation at being cut up by European colonial powers.

“Although I see important religious dimensions in this crisis,” Mahony said, “the problem is not primarily religious in nature, but political and economic.”

The most frequently mentioned cause for anti-American feeling is U.S. support for Israel, but Muslims also view the wealth, power, and success of the United States as deadly temptations from outside leading them away from God. For many, the balance of power as it now stands is truly evil and unacceptable, for it means the domination of nonbelievers over the faithful, resulting in the corruption of religion and morality in society. Iraqis may also support Hussein out of a long tradition of undying loyalty to their leader, or “shaykh.” Following the example of their Bedouin Arab forbears, the Iraqis look to their leader to ensure their survival before the world’s threats and dangers. As Muslims, the Iraqis may be more willing to fight against an

Continued on Page 2

Faculty Housing Project Threatens McConnell Pond
By Tom Koonce

While the Davidson-Cornelius area has experienced rapid growth over the past few years, there has been a steady drop in available housing in this part of Mecklenburg County. Because of families looking for housing away from Charlotte, new businesses, and projects such as River Run, the going market rate for land and houses in Davidson has skyrocketed. Now, as new Davidson faculty search for affordable houses, they are forced to look to places in Mooresville and other locations outside the town. For a college that prides itself in having most of its faculty and staff live nearby, this caused a problem that had to be addressed.

In response to this growing concern, the President appointed a Housing Task Force to find a solution to this Davidson housing crunch. The Task Force sent out questionnaires to the faculty and began considering alternatives and potential sites for new faculty housing. They looked at campus property behind Erwin Lodge on Grey Road and areas along Concord Road. The area behind Grey Road is already campus property. The committee decided not to commit this property to housing because of possible future campus expansion in this area.

The group concluded that property off of Concord Road was the best land for housing. They chose an area known as McConnell Pond. It begins just after the last house on the left as you leave town on Concord Road. The area was bought by the college back in the 1950s with the intent of using it for future faculty and staff housing. In fact, fifteen years ago, plans were drawn up to develop the land. On this 98 acres of what was once pasture land but now is overgrown, there is a small pond. This pond has been used quite frequently in study by the biology department. Some in the department are against this natural area being overrun by development.

According to Biology Professor David Grant, such a development, “Would be a beautiful place, but it (the pond) has something of everything biologically.” Dr. Grant has spoken out against the project, citing the needs of the Biology Department for such a field

Continued on Page 2

INSIDE

Sports
Two Athletes Of The Week. Page 15.

Opinions
Carlson On Gays, Page 7.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, N.C. 28036