THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1991

Letters (cont.)

Professor McCulloh Examines Academic Publication

To the Editor:

It is worth noting that the recent Davidsonian article “Publish or Perish? Faculty Says Teaching Comes First” includes the remark
that “[t]he generation that’s coming in” believes “scholarship is important.” This statement would seem to suggest the obverse is true
-- that most teachers at Davidson now, as well as the “old guard” that has retired, are not interested in
scholarship. “Scholarship” is often used nowadays as a code word for the publication of scholarly articles, not merely for the
act of studying and reflecting.

There are two reasons to be circumspect about certain notions about research that “linger” on campus. First, we should avoid
what some colleagues are calling “institutional amnesia.” For instance, if one examines Faculty Activity Reports from years back, one finds
a not unimpressive list of publications -- products of respectable scholarship -- on the part of the Davidson faculty. Faculty
members hired since the last change in administration are certainly not the only ones who have pursued scholarship while teaching
at Davidson. Professor William P. Cumming’s prolific and valuable writings come immediately to mind, although there are many, many others
who did and do fine scholarly work at Davidson, although not all had or have the professional ambition to produce
frequent publications.

Second, we should try to determine what the issues at stake behind the “publish or perish” controversy really are. Instead
of suggesting the new generation thinks scholarship important, we might best reformulate the statement: “Many of those younger teachers coming
to Davidson now have been trained in graduate schools where publication of scholarly articles and books is seen as academe’s
raison d'etre. They will pursue publication for that reason, as well as a) in order to strive for tenure at
Davidson, and b) to keep themselves ‘marketable’ should they be denied tenure at Davidson after the six-year probationary period. Publication,
i.e., publication with the ‘right’ publishers, equals professional success and the respect of colleagues.”

I do not wish to suggest by any means that genuine scholarly interests aren’t at work, or that publishing is
a kind of mercenary activity, but only to indicate the source of the pressure to publish. As long ago as
1972, Georg Mann pointed out the vastly expanding number of scientific publications (427,000 articles annually in the late fifties; 1,200,000
by 1960; 2 million by 1965) and noted, as others have before and since, the direct connection of these ballooning
publication numbers to increasingly legalistic tenure and promotion requirements in the academy. As he said, “the bulk of scientific publication
-- perhaps this should also include all scholarly publications, in the humanities and social sciences as well as the natural
sciences -- is consciously set in type knowing beforehand that it is of serious interest to nobody.” Of course, Georg
Mann was dealing in hyperbole. Some fields in fact command a much broader interest than he indicated, and it is
undeniable that all publications are of interest at least to their authors and those authors’ academic deans, if to nobody
else.

How did we get where we are now? Those, like historian Richard Hofstadter, who have studied the development of institutions
of higher education in this country point out that the present linkage between teaching and publishable research is rooted in
America’s imitation (beginning with the graduate school at Johns Hopkins University) of the German university of the 19th century. Graduate
(and to some extent undergraduate) education in this country has since before the turn of the century modeled itself increasingly
after the Central European example, which emphasizes specialized research in a seminar setting. Methodology was and is considered more important
than “Stoff” (facts, material) whereas in England, Holland and elsewhere, undergraduate study was directed at obtaining a command of the
traditions of a broad field of inquiry, with specialization beginning only at the level of advanced degrees.

In the German system, however, there is, to begin with, no real equivalent of the baccalaureate. At German universities in
the 19th century, students -- already highly educated in the classical languages, mathematics and science -- attended the lectures of
scholars and scientists who read from their own specialized research papers and notes. Students already had the academic preparation for
participating in the projects of the professors, and often the professors used the seminar papers of the students in publications
(traditionally without attribution). Germany produced renowned scholars and scientists we might today call “research entrepreneurs.” Their reputations in specialized fields
allowed them to move from university to university, settling down for a time wherever financial and research conditions were right
for them. Thus, this system stands in direct conflict to the Anglo-American tradition of institutional loyalty once associated with the
faculties of small colleges and private boarding schools. It is, however, a system that has long been filtering down and
affecting institutions beneath the graduate level. Indeed, graduate schools produce the teachers who come to a college like Davidson, and
it is only natural that their training, directed toward research and publication, should play an important part in their academic
careers. The point is that the German argument (there is no respectable teaching at the university level without ongoing original
research) should be seen in historical perspective.

An additional point should be made. Not all fields are...the same in relation to research and publication. Laboratory work and
classical philology, for instance, are two very different activities. Ironically, the humanistic disciplines, whose legitimacy was challenged by the “hard
sciences” in the course of the 19th century, have done much to make themselves seem more scientific. Aware that their
work was not as self-evidently valid to most people as, say, cancer research or technical experimentation, literature scholars and linguists
have strived to publish specialized articles written in specialized jargon much the way a chemist might publish the results of
a new experiment. Again, I am not dismissing the activity outright, only pointing out the source of publication pressure in
the humanities: the desire for professional legitimacy. In the end, the controversy is not really a dispute about the merits
of publishing, however, but an argument to what extent “scholarly productivity” can be used to make personnel decisions -- it’s
a dispute about how to decide who "perishes." At most institutions of higher education, young teachers have only six or
seven years to distinguish themselves with the publication of articles and reviews. Thus, the pace of their early scholarly work
is set by bureaucratic demands for accountability.

Sincerely,
MARK R. McCULLOH
Associate Professor of German

Be you sane or be you inane,
Have you a vacuum or a brain,
Write to Opinions
And send us your train
(of thought)

Rhyme scheme-oholics can jam it:
-Call Dave x6615

SUMMER Fees and Tuition per Session:
Undergraduate: $110 plus
Graduate: $110 plus

UNC-CH offers, during two 5-week sessions, one of the largest summer programs in the United States. Over 900 courses are
scheduled in 40 disciplines. A typical course load per session is 4-7 semester hours. For the first time, some evening
and night courses are offered. Spaces are also available in Summer School Study Abroad. Students from any college or university,
teachers, rising high school seniors, and others who are not enrolled at UNC-CH may apply as Visiting Summer Students.

CALENDAR
Session I: May 20-June 24
Session II: June 26-July 31

Fees per credit hour:
NC Resident: $30 per credit hour
Nonresident: $210 per credit hour

Graduate:
NC Resident: $40 per credit hour
Nonresident: $220 per credit hour

Please send me a catalog and application form:

Name
Street
City
State
Zip

Mail to: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Summer School, CB #3340, 200 Pettigrew Hall, Chapel Hill, NC
27599-3340. Phone: (919) 962-1009 (AA/EEO Institution)

The Good, The Bad and the Human
By Derrick Willard

Well, another week has flown by at good ol’ Davidson. The winter rains have continued to fall, the skunks have
continued to scurry - and stink, and my hall has received new shower curtains. So it goes, as they say.
For seniors, it is the paling of the age of “collegeness.” Freshmen and sophomores wander about quite oblivious, but juniors
are beginning to experience the turning of wheels that is occurring and has occurred in many seniors’ minds. Imbued with
the wisdom of four years of Davidson academia, many seniors have become introspective, retrospective, and some just spective. Others of
the class do not and may never really have a perspective.

I was struck by the introspective article by Trevor Wade in last week’s Davidsonian. I think it is a good
example of this soul-searching that many (upperclassmen especially, something to do with maturity) develop as a result of a liberal
arts education. Trevor is extolling the virtues of her educational experiences--she sees the benefit of open eyes and an open
mind. But I think she hints at a deeper issue in the beginning of her article, one she does not
fully address. I believe, too, in the value of self-examination and shedding ethnocentric ideas; I think it is an essential
part of human growth. But Trevor links the idea of ethnocentricity to good and evil. I think she is battling
with two distinct issues.

The first issue is ethnocentricity. Ethnocentricity can lead to assertions of superiority and misunderstanding--stubbornness that leads to conflict. Trevor begins
to tie the recent Gulf conflict to ethnocentricity. That’s a complicated argument which has been struggled with for months. I
personally do not think the war can be explained so easily. That certainly could be the subject of an entire
book.

The second issue, the deeper issue, is the nature of man. Is man good or evil by nature? If man
is good, why do men fight? Sometimes the answer may be ethnocentricity (the belief that one culture is superior to
others), but I think the Nazi regime presents a better example of this during World War II. If man is
evil, then yes Trevor, war is natural. This is a subject debated for centuries. And in the end, I think
the answer is man is both good and evil by nature. Have we not learned that rarely if ever is
one answer absolutely right? Consider this similar or a part of the “nature-nurture” debate. Is man shaped by his genetics
or his environment? Is it not obvious that he is shaped by both? Man certainly has the capability for good
and evil, and probably uses whichever best favors survival.

So in my opinion, man is good by nature but also bad. So too is Miller Lite less filling but
also tastes great. This is not admonishment, or a proclamation of truth, just another perspective. Hopefully readers with open eyes
and minds will find something they appreciate.

Derrick Willard is a senior biology major from Laurinburg, NC.
