MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991 Sports 15

By Bruce Balestier

A talented Appalachian State team came to Belk Arena last Tuesday with a win over a fine UNCC squad under
its belt, perhaps expecting a blowout of the type they delivered to the Wildcats a year ago. Up by just
a point at the half last year in Boone, the Mountaineers enacted a massive run that spurred them to an
88-59 win.

What a difference a year can make. In what was, without question, the finest performance by a Davidson team in
recent memory, the ‘Cats thoroughly dismantled the Mountaineers in a 72-60 victory that wasn’t even that close. Taking their initial
lead at the 13:40 mark of the first half on a driving hoop by Detlef Musch, the Wildcats never looked
back, sprinting to a 39-31 halftime edge.

Briefly challenged when ASU scored the first six points of the second half to close to 39-37, Davidson responded with
an 18-4 spurt to put the game out of reach. It was a brilliant effort on both ends of the
floor that gained the victory, by far the pinnacle of coach Bob McKillop’s tenure at Davidson.

Tireless defense forced the Mountaineers into low-percentage, contested perimeter shots, and held them to 47% shooting from the field. On
the offensive end, rapid ball movement produced easy shots, which the Wildcats buried at a 64% clip.

Jason Zimmerman paced the ‘Cats with 18 points, and Detlef Musch was a tower of power inside, making 6 of
his 7 shots for 12 points. It was obvious to anyone in attendance that this young Davidson team has turned
the corner.

Saturday evening’s meeting with defending conference champions Coastal Carolina, though it ended in a 55-48 defeat, was another positive performance
for the ‘Cats. The great news was that they held the potent Chanticleers, who had nearly upset N.C. State in
their previous outing, to just 36% field goal shooting.

Coach Bob McKillop was justifiably pleased with his team’s gutty effort. During the first half, the Wildcats gave Coastal a
clinic in controlling the tempo of the game. Using most of the shot clock on nearly every possession, the ‘Cats
dominated the visibly shaken Chants en route to a 26-21 halftime lead.

Coastal Carolina regained its confidence in the second half, and the shots simply would not fall for Davidson, but McKillop’s
charges never ceased scrapping. In McKillop’s words, “We grew up a lot tonight.” The ‘Cats received another fine performance from
Detlef Musch. Musch was a bona fide intimidator in the paint, scoring 10 points, gathering 8 caroms, and blocking 4
shots in thoroughly outplaying the Chants’ Dwayne Cheatam.

Freshman phenom Jason Zimmerman poured in 25 points to lead the Wildcats, who return to action Monday night at Campbell.
They return to Belk Arena to face Charleston Southern Thursday evening at 7:30 pm. The team’s record stands at 3-9,
1-4 in Big South play.

A recap of the team’s games since:

William and Mary at Davidson 11/27
Freshman James Marsh’s two free throws with :32 left gave the Wildcats a 58-57 lead, but the Tribe’s Thomas Roberts
drove the lane and scored with 19 seconds remaining to give his team a 59-58 victory. Davidson had threatened to
blow out William and Mary, taking a 20-10 lead with 9:59 left in the opening half. But the Tribe fought
back, closing to 28-27 at halftime, and the two teams exchanged narrow leads for the remainder of the contest. Marsh
put forth a yeoman-like effort, contributing 13 points and 9 rebounds, while playing 39 of the 40 minutes.

Erskine at Davidson
Unfortunately, Davidson shot an even less impressive 31% for the evening. Anemic shooting notwithstanding, the Wildcats fell short.

BASKETBALL
McKillop And His Boys Defeat Appalachian State, Fall To Others
Freshman Jason Zimmerman Shines

Photo by Ted Richardson
Left to Right: Scott Alford, Sterling Freeman, and Paul DrobnitchStare goo-goo eyed at headless and armless, yet awe-inspiring Turner Gilmore.
Hang on for an 86-82 triumph. Davidson assumed a commanding 62-50 cushion on a basket by Jason Zimmerman with 12:10
to go, but proceeded to succumb to the Erskine full-court pressure defense. The Wildcat lead was cut to 83-82 with
:40 left, but free throws by Jeff Chapin and Paul Denmond during the final 11 seconds secured the victory. Freshman
Jason Zimmerman emerged as the Cats' leader at the point guard position, scoring 24 points and doling out 5 assists
in a notable performance.

UNC Asheville at Davidson 12/5
Davidson made its Big South Conference debut a successful one, dominating the Bulldogs for 34 minutes and surviving a furious
late rally to escape with a 73-71 win. Pat Holloway’s three-pointer with 6:09 left gave the Wildcats a 61-45 lead,
their biggest of the night, before UNC-A applied full-court defensive pressure. The Bulldogs’ dogged defensive effort whittled the lead with
celerity, and they drew within 71-69 with :18 left. But Jeff Chapin’s two free throws four seconds later gave the
Wildcats the hard-fought victory and a short-lived hold on first place in the conference.

Jason Zimmerman and Pat Holloway carried the bulk of the load for the Cats, combining for 33 points. If the
Demon Deacons came to Belk Arena expecting an easy victory over the undermanned Wildcats, they were sorely surprised. A gutty
defensive effort by the Cats held Wake under 40% from the field and kept Davidson in the game until the
very end. Jason Zimmerman’s free throw cut the deficit to just eight points with 4:18 to play, but the Wildcats
could edge no closer. A host of Wake Forest free throws down the stretch accounted for the deceiving 72-56 final
score.

Radford at Davidson 12/10
Many coaches feel that the first five minutes of the second half are the most important of a basketball game.
It was easy to see why when the Highlanders of Radford extended a 39-32 halftime lead into a commanding 49-35
bulge with 15 minutes left and coasted to a 70-57 win over the lackluster Cats. Pat Holloway’s 21 points and
Jason Zimmerman’s 16 points were the only highlights for Davidson, which shot a blistering 31% from the floor for the
game.

Wofford at Davidson 12/19
The Wildcats celebrated the end of exams in unorthodox fashion with a depressing 74-63 loss to Division II Wofford. This
was a game devoid of bright spots.

Davidson at UNC Asheville 12/29
Our Wildcats stormed out of the gate in their second meeting with the Bulldogs, taking a 33-18 lead on sophomore
forward J.D. Heuer’s turnaround jumper with 2:24 left in the first stanza, and held a comfortable 35-25 advantage at the
break. The Cats held sizable leads throughout the second half, only to see their hard work negated when the Bulldogs
hit two three-pointers in the last :03 to send the game into overtime. The shocked Wildcats couldn’t get going in
the extra period, losing 89-86. This trying loss marked the return of former starter J.D. Heuer from bench oblivion; he
scored 10 points in just 18 minutes. Jason Zimmerman led the way with 17 points, while reserve Scott Alford contributed
13 points and 10 rebounds.

Davidson at Charleston Southern 1/5
A sluggish start hampered the Wildcats in this one, as the Bucs, previously known as Baptist, jumped out to a
12-2 lead in the opening minutes and a 42-35 cushion at the half. Nonetheless, the Cats found themselves in position
to win down the stretch. Paul Denmond’s two free throws drew Davidson within 72-71 with just over two minutes remaining,
and three charity tosses by Jason Zimmerman cut the lead to 76-74 at the :27 mark. But the Bucs made
their free throws in the waning seconds and emerged with an 80-74 win. Jason Zimmerman once again led the way
with a career-high 26 points.
