MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991

Sports

New Faces Abound in the Athletic Department

John Filar: Davidson announced in June the hiring of John Filar as head women’s basketball and assistant volleyball coach. Since 1988, Filar has been girls’ athletic director, head girls’ basketball coach, head volleyball coach, and head tennis coach at Charlotte Latin School. His basketball teams at Latin racked up a 67-19 mark, appeared in the state final four three years in a row, and won the 1991 state title. His overall record in 12 years as girls’ basketball coach at Latin and Kentucky Country Day School is 217-89. In six seasons coaching volleyball, Filar compiled a 114-44 record and led Latin to the 1989 state championship.

Tom Quinn: Quinn’s arrival at Davidson marks a reunion with his former coach Dave Fagg. Quinn was a three-year letterman at Arizona, where Fagg served as associate head coach before returning to Davidson. While at Arizona, Quinn played in the 1986 and 1990 Aloha Bowls and in the 1989 Copper Bowl. He graduated from Arizona in 1990 and this year received his master’s degree there. At Davidson, Quinn will coach the linebackers and will run the strength and size program.

Fall Sports Schedules

Men’s Soccer
Sept. 8 @ South Carolina
11 @ North Carolina
13 vs. Columbia
14 vs. Richmond or West Virginia
18 DUKE
21 RHODES
28 @ Emory and Henry
Oct. 2 @ Radford
5 @ Liberty
9 N.C. STATE
12 APPALACHIAN STATE
13 UNC-CHARLOTTE (Parents Weekend)
16 BRIDGEWATER
18 @ Pfeiffer
21 @ James Madison
25 @ High Point
28 LOUISVILLE
29 LONGWOOD
Nov. 1-3 Deep South Tournament @ Catawba

Field Hockey
Sept. 8 U. OF THE SOUTH
10 @ Duke
13 APPALACHIAN STATE
16 @ Campbell
19 UNC-ASHEVILLE
20 WINTHROP
23 @ Charleston Southern
26 COASTAL CAROLINA (Homecoming)
30 @ Furman
Nov. 3 WAKE FOREST (Parents Weekend)
5 First Round (@ higher seed)
8 Semifinals (@ Coastal Carolina)
9 Finals (@ Coastal Carolina)

Tim Landis: Landis, a 1986 graduate of Randolph-Macon College, comes to Davidson as defensive line coach and coordinator of the size, quickness, and agility program. He was an all-conference quarterback and an all-conference baseball pitcher during his athletic career as a Yellow Jacket. He has been athletic director, head football coach, and head baseball coach at Morrisville High School in Morrisville, Pa. since 1988.

Women’s Basketball to Return?

By Holt Hathaway

Davidson’s return to the Southern Conference may also mean the return of a women’s varsity basketball team. Several Davidson women have kept the sport alive here as a club team which played in a women’s league in Charlotte. This year will be a sort of trial season to determine if there is enough interest and support to bring the team back to varsity status.

One key element of a team is a coach. We now have that role filled by new head coach John Filar. Filar has twelve successful years of coaching women’s basketball on the high school level and seems well-prepared for and excited about coaching on the college level. Filar’s first nine years of coaching were spent at Kentucky Country Day School, and the past three years he coached at Charlotte Latin.

In his twelve seasons of coaching, Filar has come out with seven twenty-win seasons! At Latin, he took his team to the final four of state competition all three years. The first year they lost by one point. But last year he paid back that debt with a one-point victory to take the state finals! Also, last season, he achieved his 200th win!

The task at hand is a challenging one, but Filar is “super-excited” to have the opportunity to begin the program from the ground up.

For anyone interested in trying out for the team, an organizational meeting will be held on September 11, at Baker Underground.