OPINIONS

8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

Inside Art

A Meeting With Her

The sun shone in the arena that summer afternoon. Only a swallow of wine could cool off the throats of the audience in order to continue shouting: Ole!

Sweat and cigar smoke dominated the festive environment.

Everyone met in the Mausoleum of death and art to celebrate the City Patron’s Day.

People commended and applauded the bullfighter’s passes with the muleta.

Men and women admired the bullfighter’s courage in the most beautiful ballet of eroticism and death, that was performed in the ring of that happy town each afternoon during that week.

Celebration, wine, gladness, and art flooded everywhere, but suddenly, all noise stopped.

It was six o’clock in the afternoon. The ring’s clock stopped forever in that damned time, of that damned afternoon, of that damned year.

The bullfighter’s body was opened like a mature pomegranate blossom in summer, when a bull horn penetrated, like a lance in his body. The bull found in front of its head the bullfighter’s soft stomach, and it did what it had to. A gush of blood threw out the maestro among maestros’ body to blend two bloods, a man’s blood and a God’s blood. Both bloods linked, and She appeared.

She entered and left again with her horn disguise, when the warm body was on the floor. In the purple dyed yellow sand, She left her track.

The “matador’s” body was deprived of the treasure of living, when She departed from the glorious ring sailing in a river of holy blood leaving deserted of life the sand of the ring.

He died, She killed him, but IT WAS A PRETTY BULL.

--Jose Luis Crespo-Espert

Pixies
Continued from page 7

steady bass and David Lovering’s consistent drumming, there would be no intelligible expression on this album. These seemingly contrasting qualities make Trompe exciting and phenomenal.

With the exception of a cover of the Jesus And The Mary Chain’s “Head On” (which should have been a B-side), the album overflows with well-written music and witty lyrics. “Alec Eiffel” is a catchy tune which pays tribute to the engineering genius behind France’s well-known monument. “Planet Of Sound” describes one of Black Francis’ surrealistic journeys and characterizes the high energy level of the group. Finally, “Letter To Memphis” is so simplistically appealing that one can’t help but hum along.

So for those of you highly stressed out by your work, I strongly recommend Trompe Le Monde for its therapeutic value. Remember, however, to keep your academics in perspective after listening, for as Black Francis bluntly states, music is educational.

Robert DeNiro

Nick Nolte

Raul Julia

MOVIES AT THE LAKE

Name Our Mermaid Contest
Submit your choice for our Mermaid's Name on an official entry blank available at the Movies at the Lake, WFMX Radio, and Village Travel locations. If your suggestion is selected, you'll win a 4 Day Cruise for two to the Bahamas on Carnival Cruise Lines and $200.00 in cash! The winning name will be immortalized in neon below the mermaid featured on the front of the theatre.

Fantasy
Continued from page 7

way. Country music artists (who generally tour more than artists of any other format) live lives that never stop, that offer them little time for relaxation and enjoyment - especially out in the public. I guess I’m just saying that Garth Brooks and company, contrary to popular belief, do not live the easy life. It seems unfortunate to me, as it might to any of you who feel that burning love of performing, that these people, who give us so much, must pay such a price.

Balagan
Continued from page 7

While the group’s purpose is to be on the cutting edge, their performance is rooted in theatre’s past. The base structure of Lopez-Barrantes’ presentation is the cabaret, a less structured and climactic form of theatre popular until around the turn of the century. Balagan, a Russian form of this style, is “a very non-logical form of cabaret,” according to Lopez-Barrantes. “It is very vital, and it allows us to show the many different facets of these students.”

Lopez-Barrantes’s methods are drawn from his experience with the Roy Hart Theatre in France, a theatre dedicated to the principles of the quality and values of sound independent of dialogue. “At the Balagan” stresses emotion over pragmatism, the body and voice of the actor as sensual being over calculated and recorded roles.

Class member David Tweedie said, “Balagan opened up the idea of theatre as a life process for me. It changed my whole outlook on theater.”

Tate
Continued from page 7

published.

The movie tends to fluctuate from clever visual gag, to cheesy “quality time” between loving mom and sensitive son. Individual sequences stand up well on their own but don’t fit together as a coherent film. The scene in which a carload of kids going to “Odyssey of the Mind”, a sort of Disneyworld for smart children, was potentially clever. When they stop to visit the director’s country estate in Connecticut, however, one of Tate’s bright friends, “The Mathmagician” bonks his head on a tree limb in the classic horse gallop gag. The whole act seems unnecessary and downright stupid.

Basically, Foster’s debut deserves a thumbs-down for its over-sentimentality and stereotypical relationships. In some scenes, though, she does show promise with subtle comic instinct and an eye for

Anjelica Huston

Steven Spielberg

An American Tail: FIEVEL GOES WEST
Rated G
3:15 -- 5:15 -- 7:15 -- 9:15