THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 1991

Davidson Arts

The Editorial Board of The Davidsonian is pleased to introduce our new section: Davidson Arts. This portion of the newspaper
will be devoted to arts issues which have an effect on the Davidson community. We will include film reviews, musical
reviews, dramatic criticism, and the occasional essay regarding the arts at Davidson College. In the tradition of Inside Art, we
will also publish student and faculty submissions of poetry, photography, and short stories. If you are interested in writing for
Davidson Arts, please attend the organizational meeting on Wednesday, August 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the
College Union.

Shades of Two Worlds: Allman Brothers Light
By Jim Carswell

Back in their heyday in the late 60s and early 70s, the Allman Brothers produced what many would call some
of the best beer-drinking music around with albums like Eat A Peach and Live at Fillmore East. Since then, whether
outside listening to “Blue Sky” on a sunny springtime afternoon or dancing at a crowded party to “One Way Out,”
a lot of people have enjoyed the Allmans with a cold Miller or Bud. This summer the band promised a
return to its greatness with the release of a new album called Shades Of Two Worlds. To make it, Gregg
Allman and Dicky Betts got together with a couple of the other original members and a new, Duane-influenced slide guitarist
named Warren Haynes. All the talent promises a triumphant return, but don’t rush out for a six-pack yet. The slick
production and uninteresting lyrics on some of the songs really limit the album. And the shortcomings are apparent on the
very first song, “End of the Line.” While the rhythm section and the guitarists create an interesting and enjoyable song,
the lyrics lack wit and imagination. A song that reviews the career of one of the more colorful figures in
popular music would be worthy of better lines than, “When I think about the old days / It sends chills
up and down.

Oh, Those Lazy, Hazy, Crazy Days of Summer
By Joe Maris, Davidsonian film critic

Sadly enough, the formula used for this summer’s lineup matches almost perfectly with previous formulas from previous summers. Therefore, before
I present my opinions concerning this summer’s movies, I would like to uncustomarily project what I'm sure we'll all adore
from the Summer of 1992: Perhaps another Kevin Costner movie: Costner plays God in I, God. And, if we're really
lucky, a movie about a man awaking from a mental disease and rediscovering the world: Harrison Ford plays the debilitated
Jesse Helms in Regarding Jesse, a heartwarming tale about a politician who wakes up 65 years after a brain disorder
reduces his intelligence to that of wet rock. See if I’m not right.

And now, a brief review of this summer’s movies:

Naked Gun 2.5: The Smell of Fear. The important thing to remember when discussing this movie is not to make
apples out of oranges. This second installment of the "Police Squad” extravaganzas promises nothing more than age-old slapstick and offhand
jokes and it delivers nothing more than age-old slapstick and offhand jokes. Naked Gun 2.5 is funny. The jokes are
no different than any other comedy’s jokes, but the beauty of Naked Gun 2.5 lies in its courage to simply
be funny and nothing else. Too many comedy movies try to mix things like people getting run over by trucks
in a funny way with things like people touching each other as spiritual brothers in a universe governed by love.
Few find the effective mix. Naked Gun 2.5, therefore, gets a bucket of stars for not trying.

Robin Hood: This movie has several flaws that most other reviewers have pointed out. One, Kevin Costner was terrible as
Robin Hood. His acting was like the sudden aching of a hypochondriac when the hypochondriac realizes that he is not
showing enough signs of pain to draw sympathy from his peers. Lay as much blame on the script as on
Costner, but it seemed as if Costner was always suddenly remembering that Robin Hood is supposed to be witty and
care-free and not at all like the American soldier Saviour-Hero twit from Dances with Wolves. Two, the ending was terrible.
It is obvious that Kevin Reynolds, the “director,” was a chemistry major in school. Three, the villain was hilarious, thereby
creating a problem. One simply cannot have a decent story about good and evil when the hero is as exciting
as a bag of salt and the evil-doer captures the heart of the audience. When the sheriff does evil things,
they aren’t so bad simply because he is so funny. Sadly, one can’t really side with the bad guys because
they beat up children. The end result is that the audience is left without a clear side to root for.my
spine / Oh, life ain’t what it seems / On the boulevard of broken dreams.” Gregg Allman hasn’t lived that
terse and tired a life, has he? And it only gets worse when he follows these lines with clichés like
“kill or be killed” and “king of the hill.” The song does have some appeal, though, and most people will
find themselves tapping a foot or even grooving a bit if they ignore the words. Actually, the whole album is
musically entertaining, if not as raucous as their older material. “Bad Rain,” “Nobody Knows,” and the instrumental “Kind of Bird”
recall some of the band’s best music, though these songs are just a bit too well produced. Whether due to
technical limitations or professional sloppiness, older Allmans music was mixed so that each instrument came on strong. Jaimoe’s drums or
Gregg’s keyboards even seem to be performing within each song on their own little stages, competing for the listener’s ear.
But on Shades all the sounds the band produces seem perfectly integrated. It sounds professional, but the Allmans are supposed
to be a little more raw. The album's two strongest songs are “Desert Blues” and “Get On With Your Life.”
“Blues” rocks, so that the rather silly (though not cliché) words don’t seem that important. Just listen to and enjoy
this one instead of paying attention to it. Do pay attention to the other one, though. It’s just the type
of blues the Allman Brothers do best, from the crying guitar to the lazy keyboards to Gregg's yearning voice. Truly,
this song would have gone very well on Brothers and Sisters. It’s too bad they couldn’t make the entire album
like these two songs. But it’s 1991, not 1971, though, and these guys haven’t produced very much good music, together
or individually, in a long time. If you like your collections complete, go out and buy Shades Of Two Worlds
to get their best effort in a while. But don’t get Miller or Bud to drink with it. The album's
unimaginative lyrics combined with the sugar-coating of overproduction suggest that Coors Light or even a Corona with lime would better
complement this album.

Crazy, Shameless Films

The audience has no one to pull for unless they are sympathetic to nauseating dialogue or are sympathetic to child
molesters. Robin Hood fails miserably. The director took a weak script and tried to cover its weakness by using exciting
camera angles, symbolic old blind men, and a plethora of heartwarming lines stolen from other movies.

Bill and Ted’s Bogus Journey: People are sure to see this second installment of Bill-and-Tedness no matter what any movie
reviewer says, particularly if they have seen the first one over 600 times. In some respects, the second Bill-and-Ted movie
is better and in other ways it is worse. On the better side, the scriptwriters delicately prove that at least
someone in Hollywood does not consider Dead Poets’ Society the best movie of all time. Bill and Ted’s confrontation with
Death, particularly in the Parker Brothers arena of sport, is a clever parody of Ingmar Bergman’s The Seventh Seal in
which the protagonist plays a prolonged game of chess with the Grim Reaper. I was most righteously impressed with this
rather bitchin’ allusion. On the worse side, however, it is painfully obvious that the second Bill-and-Ted adventure had a large
budget. Otherwise, I can hardly justify the use of Muppet-like creature effects with which Bill and Ted expose their playdough
sculpted insides. Put the better and worse together, however, and better comes out on top. If the first one was
entertaining, the second one persuadingly follows suit. It certainly could have been worse.

Terminator II: Quite simply, this movie is great. It is true that Terminator II is an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie and
that it is filled to the hilt with witty, foreign language one-liners and exploding semi-trucks. This movie’s strength, however (and
it has an encouraging amount), comes from two particular areas. First, of course, are the special effects. They are simply
incredible. Second, the story is solid and actually manages to confront the nuclear issue with a side-glance rather than with
direct The Day After depiction. The film’s great irony lies in the use of the best special effects to date
to confront the problems of a technological age.

The College Union presents a new service available to students, faculty, and staff. Movie rental is made out of the
Union Gameroom during normal gameroom hours (every day 3-6 pm, 7-11 pm).

MOVIE RENTAL (over 60 great titles available) AND MORE ARE ON THE WAY! Each video is $1.00 per night, $2.00
late fee. There is also a $1.00 fee for movies returned without rewinding.

QUESTIONS OR SUGGESTIONS? -2651
