THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

Davidson Arts
Jackson & Warren Exhibit In Charlotte Gallery Crawl
By David Smyth

The Davidson College Art Department had a banner day last Friday night as two of its professors, Herb Jackson and Russ Warren, exhibited their paintings in the Gallery Crawl in downtown Charlotte. Showing their works in the Jerald Melberg and Hodges Taylor galleries respectively, Jackson and Warren represented Davidson with two artists for the first time in Crawl history.

Jackson works entirely with acrylics on canvas and creates textural abstract pieces with the help of mixed-in pumice stone dust and mica crystals. He has the dust, an industrial abrasive, sent in from Boston in five hundred-pound shipments to use with the acrylic paint. The mica is mined in Burnsville, North Carolina. Both the dust and the mica help to create a more three-dimensional veneer and allow Jackson to scrape away paint to reveal layers that have been previously added. At the same time, the surface does not become overly brittle because the mixture is still mostly acrylic paint. Each of Jackson's paintings has between fifty and one hundred layers. He typically works with three to four paintings at once which are begun and finished at about the same time. In the process of completing a series, one will usually assert itself and cry for work before the others. Eventually, all of the paintings will come to finishing points and a new group is begun.

When asked if he would likely sell any of his works on Friday night, Jackson replied: “Gallery crawls aren’t really about selling, they’re about celebrating. But who knows? Somebody might walk in and decide they have to have one.” Included among the paintings that someone might have to have were Sisyphus and Gathering, which had already been shown in New York and Moscow respectively. The rest were being presented to the public for the first time.

Warren reveals a Hispanic and Latin American influence in his paintings which are acrylics done on canvas and paper. He hails originally from Houston, Texas and also raises Pasofino horses whose whole training method is Spanish and Latin American. Latin American folk art, he says, has also helped direct the general tone of his work. His acrylics on paper closely resemble watercolors, and they nearly approximate that medium in consistency. Fluid acrylics mixed with water, though, give him a richness that he cannot always find in watercolors and is more durable.

Female horses dominate Warren’s paintings, as in Fino, Fino, Por Favor and Bellaza Hoy Dea, Fino Manana. These works on canvas present Pasofino silhouettes as centerpieces in front of oddly intriguing backgrounds. Warren noted that he also works on several paintings at a time, usually three to five begun on the same day and finished on the same day. “It would be crazy to work on one painting at a time,” he said. “You need time to incubate ideas in your mind before going back to work on one painting.” It generally takes six to eight weeks of constant work to finish a series of five.

Steamrollin’ With Art Professor Andy Owens
By Will Montgomery and Jim Carswell

On Saturday, October 19 a crowd of students, faculty, and curious bystanders turned out to watch Owens create prints in his unique manner. Sitting high in the saddle of a huge yellow DYNAPAC steamroller, Owens drove the machine over various items from the Davidson dump to make large prints. He placed thin round engine parts, plastic objects, and finally a discarded screen door on top of a large piece of plywood. After pouring paint and water over the pile, he covered it all with paper and a blanket. Then it was onto the steamroller to flatten it. Reactions were mixed (“what is he doing?” to “that print really came out good!”), but the whole crowd did seem to enjoy witnessing the making of art. Owens’ method is notThe feat of sudden inspiration, but the result of years of artistic endeavor. He began working with lithography and etching at an early age, learning much about printing from a neighbor. After undergraduate work at the University of Florida, he was asked to be a resident printmaker in Wolfsburg, Germany, where he lived in a castle. During graduate work at the University of Arizona, he traveled to Mexico to study murals and large drawings. He credits a near-death experience in a disgusting Mexican hospital as impetus for his affinity for the steamroller printing process. 

Victim of a bacillism from infected shellfish, Owens recalls inserting his own IV and humbly pondering the Mexican slogan “mi vida no vale nada.” This frightful experience impressed Owens with a sense of absurdity and meaninglessness in life. This feeling and a background in printing and lithography attracted him to art that seeks to uncover order amid chaos. Owens describes his process with a saying of Picasso who explained that he “doesn’t try to copy nature, but tries to work.” Owens doesn’t know of anyone in the world, except for David Letterman, who runs things over with a steamroller for the aesthetic experience. Letterman absurdly squashes watermelons for a gag, but Owens’ steamrolling is a rich process, both technically and theoretically. 

The steamroller serves as a large and mobile printing press. The images form as crushed objects with distinctive patterns or textures manipulate paint. Amid the apparent chaos and destruction of these objects, the record left in paint offers a glimpse into the underlying form and order. Owens says that by printing in this manner he adds new dimensions.

See “Steamroller” on page 8

Actor Brad Griffin On The Kiss Me, Kate Experience

Being an actor at Davidson is much like being a football player or a member of the Honor Council at Davidson: it takes time -- large amounts of time -- which is why so many would-be actors refuse even to audition for a Davidson production. During rehearsals for Kiss Me Kate, someone asked me, “Are you getting credit for this?” The look of astonishment on their faces when I told them that self-satisfaction was my only credit made me feel questionable for having taken on such an arduous task. 

At times during rehearsal, I, too, doubted my sanity. We practiced eighteen hours a week for seven weeks and then moved up to twenty-five hours during the two weeks before the show. And yet, I would not have changed the system. The members of the cast formed a truly tight-knit group (as the high number of cast/crew romances which arose during production will attest!), a group that made three-hour rehearsals enjoyable. 

The road to the finished product, however, was difficult at times. If I were to estimate the number of times Timisha Barnes slapped me during the rehearsal of the fight scene between Kate and Petruchio, my guess would number in excess of one hundred. Time after time we worked on the slap until she finally hit me so hard that I fell to the ground with a bloody lip. Hey -- no pain, no gain! Right? By the time opening night rolled around, we had worked through the slap so that we could concentrate on creating the level of anger needed for the scene. We would then laugh off the stage and congratulate each other on being so angry. Acting... go figure.

As the opening night approached, tension and excitement crept into the rehearsals. The first dress rehearsal in our costumes threatened to dip into the ridiculous as we saw each other in those ever-so-sexy tights for the first time. The task at hand resurfaced, though, and we all buckled down to some serious “acting.” At this point, no amount of words and explanation could adequately express the satisfaction derived from working on a show like this one. From the standpoint of vanity, it is exciting to take that bow during the curtain call as your hard work is rewarded. From a more modest view, the...