4 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991

JAY CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK PUCKETT, Executive Editor
JOE MARIS, Associate Editor
WALTER PRICE, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

The Davidsonian

DAVID THOMPSON, News Editor
BAILEY FOSTER, Associate News Editor
SEAN LIND, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
LEIGH MCEEVER, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Associate Campus Living Editor
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
BRIAN JENNINGS, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

From The First

At an enthusiastic meeting on Wednesday night, March 18, the Davidson College Student Body voted for the establishment of a
weekly newspaper. Later, an editor and business manager were elected and a staff appointed. The present issue is the first
fruits of this action. “The Davidsonian” makes its initial bow.

In the inauguration of such a newspaper, many questions no doubt arise. “Why a college weekly? Does it have a
real value? What will it stand for?” The newspaper is largely what its name implies, composed of news. It should
be in close touch with every phase of College life and the life of the community about it. Even in
a small college, life becomes more and more complex, and as the students are broken up into an increasing number
of groups, there is a tendency not to look beyond the questions and matters in which one man is directly
interested. The college newspaper should give live information about every group and department of college activity, keep them acquainted with
each other, and thus promote a feeling of mutual interest and encouragement. In addition, there are the things which vitally
concern every student, and yet which are not well known or misunderstood.

But the boundaries of a college are not the limits of its campus. In close contact with it every day
is a community which is certain to influence and be influenced by the student. The town column should make every
man feel that he has friends in the town, and their interest in the college should be increased by the
weekly items and topics about it. The old Davidson spirit which has held sway at Davidson in tradition and fact
for years upon years goes with the graduate that leaves here. ... The newspaper ... can increase the spirit in
athletic, literary, social, and religious life here; it can be a link between college and community, alumni and alma mater.
The Davidsonian asks for your earnest cooperation.

This editorial appeared in full in the first issue of The Davidsonian--April 1, 1914.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the school year by the students of Davidson College. You may address
fan mail and correspondences to: "The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036 — Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are
located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries
do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or the newspaper. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees.

Letters

Queen's Alum Scolds Newspaper

Dear Sir:

As an alumna of Queens College in the Charlotte community, I was shocked and saddened by the article by Sara
Carlson entitled, “Davidson and Queens Women Need to Cut Out the Middle Men” (January 21, 1991). The statement quoting Davidson
men’s opinion of Queens women, “Queenies come to Davidson to get laid,” was both degrading and demoralizing. As a former
Alumni Board President and Registrar of the college, I have worked for years with Queens students and have met none
who would fit that gross generalization. I am disappointed that the editorial staff of your student newspaper would print this
negative propaganda which could only broaden the gap between the students of the two colleges. Queens and Davidson have a
rich heritage of both social and intellectual cooperation, and I only hope that the students and administration will work to
strengthen this relationship.

Sincerely,
Elise McClung Barksdale, Queens ‘68
January 25, 1991

Yarbrough Expresses Certain Qualms

Dear Mr. Savona,

On the whole, I think it is unnecessary to use our campus newspaper as a medium for bickering between ourselves.
However, as you directed your letter of the January 28th issue of the Davidsonian specifically at Miss Carlson, I will
do the same, and direct my letter at you. I like to give most people the benefit of the doubt,
Mr. Savona, and I certainly hope that your intentions were wholly good, but I have someQualms with your letter, which
I will relate. Whether or not you intended to, in your very first paragraph you diminish the issue of rape
to a staggering extent. In fact, you are absolutely patronizing! You seem to think that rape is not a problem
or issue that involves you, that it is not your duty to try to solve it. Mr. Savona, if indeed
you are concerned, you simply cannot expect to sit back and let the problem solve itself. Or are you waiting
for someone else to do it for you?

As well, I would be interested to know just what your definition of “non-violent sexual crimes” is. Any rape is
a violent crime, be it physically or emotionally. Furthermore, you have grossly misinterpreted Miss Carlson’s meaning behind her statement concerning
“an Honor Council trial for sexual harassment.” I seriously doubt that Miss Carlson considered her statement a personal weapon. It
is your own paranoia that makes it so. Nor does either of us consider all the men of Davidson “evil,”
to quote yourself.

As well, it is clear that you have little understanding of crimes of a sexual nature. Of course, women are
capable of committing sexual harassment. It just doesn’t happen very often because women are too frequently on the receiving end.
Among the vast majority, I doubt if the thought ever occurs, and this is due to the continual victimization of
women and the glorification of men. The fact remains that there was no meaning behind Miss Carlson’s statement. It should
be taken as read: that no one wants to end up in an Honor Council trial for sexual harassment or
rape (paraphrase). The emotional trauma for all persons involved would be too much to bear.

Perhaps Miss Carlson’s argument was not quite accurate, and you have every right to defend yourself, but I am offended
by the use of your letter to destroy the importance of obliterating the crime of rape from our society. I
may have a case of raging feminism, but you have something worse. I call it feminist phobia. We are not
all out to get you. Mr. Savona, the reason many women are so heated and angry about rape is because
even today, the heinous crime remains almost impossible to convict. None of us wants to go through the emotional trauma
of not only a rape, but of that of a trial, after which we might see our attacker released --
set free to continue to assault women. No attack is ever deserved. The victim is never to blame. Please remember
this, and don’t cheapen the issue with your petty statements. We all know what a “terrible crime” rape is. And
if you are so concerned, why don’t you do something about it?

Sincerely,
Molly Yarbrough, ‘92
January 28, 1991

Davidson Defends Male Sex

To Feminists of this Campus:

Savona’s letter was long overdue. He’s right. There is no need for a conflict between two groups of women to
be blamed on men. I am tired of the rampant feminism on this campus, and particularly in this paper. Not
every single conflict or problem in this world can be blamed on men oppressing women. This is ridiculous. But more
than anything, it’s unjustified and unfair. It’s a waste of the paper it’s printed on. What would happen if some
guy who decided to make it his campaign to hate women started writing the paper? The women of this campus
would be outraged. No one would stand for such “male chauvinism.” There is a paradox here.

Sara would like you to believe that we are strong, capable individuals equal in intelligence and ability to our male
counterparts. Fine, I agree. But she feels the need to blame a conflict between two groups of women on men.
If we are so intelligent and capable wouldn’t we A) be able to rise above fighting over the men who
she claims “compare” us and B) be smart enough to realize that the men are deceiving both sides without her
having to point it out to us? If this were true and Davidson men were running around creating conflict between
the Queenies and Davidson women, wouldn’t we have caught on by now? I would certainly hope that we are not
so stupid and impressionable.

I see a lot of problems in this growing trend of women blaming men. I wish we could save a
few trees and cut out such unfair and unnecessary articles in the paper. I also wish women would stop crying
“sex discrimination” when they don’t achieve what they want to achieve. This is equally as wrong as it is for
a man to truly discriminate. Men do not deserve to be blamed for all women’s...

Continued On Page 9
