THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

Campus Living

Are We Saving The Rainforest?
By Julia Mallory

Over the past several years, the American public has been bombarded by the environmental slogan “Save The Rainforest.” This catch-all
phrase appears on bumper stickers, t-shirts depicting white men holding chainsaws, and World Wildlife Fund ads which remind us about
the rate at which this precious resource is being eliminated. Unfortunately, this slogan is somewhat misguided and there are many
misconceptions about the causes of deforestation and what can be done to prevent it.

Those concerned with this environmental cause tend to overlook the most important factor surrounding deforestation—the millions of people who inhabit
the vanishing forests. While spending five months with these people in the Brazilian Amazon, I was able to gain a
new perspective on the issue. Most of the causes of deforestation in the Amazon (where the rainforest is known as
the varzea) are not due to World Bank funded programs or by American export of beef. The forest is being
depleted by the small-scale farmers, ranchers, and loggers who rely on the land to support their families and who are
too busy focusing on survival to concern themselves with international environmental issues.

In order to clear the land for farming, these people burn small plots (they do not have access to bulldozers
or chainsaws). The Brazilian government has fed the problem by building roads through tracts of the forest which are not
suitable for agriculture. The government has colonized these areas by offering financial incentives to those who clear their land for
pasture. U.S. environmental groups stress the need to put an end to the “raging Amazon fires.” They often raise money
to buy plots of forest. Neither of these options is...

See "Rainforest" on Page 10

Does Davidson Clean Up?
By Frances Morton

For those of you who may not have already done your laundry this year (hopefully a rare few!), you may
have yet to notice that the Davidson laundry service was one of the many lucky recipients on the campus of
a little facelift this summer. Not only did the laundry receive new steam pipes, washers, and dryers; the laundry staff
hopes that a more efficient setup will urge more students to take advantage of this service.

But despite these new improvements, many students continue to wonder whether the 400 dollar yearly laundry fee is worth it.
You’ve heard the usual complaints—clothes that come back shrunken, stained, or not at all! Yet, there are just as many
students on campus that are thrilled to have such a service available, no matter what the price. Bryson Moore, class
of ’93, reports that she has “never had any problems with the laundry service.” Laundry fans tend to agree with
Frances Beaver, head of the laundry: “Students at Davidson need to spend their time studying, not washing clothes.”

The other day when I was visiting the laundry, I asked why the service could not be made optional. After
all, I know of several colleges which give their students the choice of whether to pay for a laundry service
or not. And for many students at Davidson, two hundred dollars each semester could go a long way towards filling
those eternally empty wallets. When one considers that the average student does his or her laundry once a week, even
the largest of loads could not possibly use up 200 dollars worth of quarters in a mere four months. Yet,
according to laundry staff members, the service has to know before the beginning of the year how much money it
will bring in so that it can cover its costs. Optional service just wouldn’t be feasible.

For those of you out there who haven’t used the laundry in the past, though, take heart.These days, the laundry
washes all girls’ clothing in cold water and dries them on the delicate cycle; boys’ knit shirts get the same
careful treatment. Several students have been pleased to report that staff members have taken the time to stamp laundry numbers
in unmarked clothing, return ID cards left in shorts pockets, and even help desperate customers who need clean clothes FAST!
Almost all the students I spoke with had very positive things to say about the laundry, but most also thought
that $400/yr was too much to pay. Still, there is always room for improvement. Several students have expressed concern that
finished laundry can easily be stolen. As with self-scheduled exams, however, the burden is on the students to remain honorable
and take only their laundry. In fact, there are more instances of stolen laundry reported from Watts and Akers do-it-your-own-way
laundries than from the college service. Whatever your position on the subject, Davidson can pride itself on a unique and
ever-improving laundry service.

Are You A Playwright? Do You Want To Be? Call Chris At -X6136

By Joe Burrows

Along with the compulsory meetings of orientation that freshmen are subjected to, Davidson College also traditionally involves her new recruits
in the unique experience of hall “mixers.” And unique is one thing they most definitely are. The days of the
cattle-market scenario, where the male farmers speculated over the quality of the produce offered, whilst the female cattle instinctively herded
towards the Diet Coke at the other end, seem to have drawn to a close. Hall counselors have surpassed themselves
in creating imaginative ways to actually get their protégés to talk to one another, a task not quite as easy
as it sounds.

One would imagine there would be no problem in persuading a group of forty students to mix, just provide a
bottle of coke and let them get on with it, right? Wrong. Instead, the hall counselors have resorted to making
everyone appear as ridiculous as possible in order that people should start talking, a tactic which is seeming to prove
successful. Two weeks ago, a Tuesday night saw a group of boys reading bedtime stories to girls. The “tuck-in” mixer,
which also involved chocolate-chip cookies and milk before lights out, was actually a great success. Perhaps the only unforeseen problem
was being introduced the next day as “the girl who read me ‘Winnie the Pooh’,” along with the afterthought, “I’m
sorry, I’ve forgotten your name.”

Other halls have had similar experiences. High on the popularity ratings with this year’s counselors has been the “tacky” mixer,
with the girls of both First, Second, and Third Rich all making themselves look as nasty as possible before going
out to meet the guys. One can only ponder the future of these mixers; surely it won’t be too long
before the girls catch on that this is generally not such a good idea. The “Physical Graffiti” party between Third
East and Third Cannon was much more of a success. Maybe I shouldn’t even begin to wonder why.

Of course, there has been the inevitable failure. Will they ever realize that “My Tie” mixers, or for that matter,
my shoe, hat, and even my playing card, just don’t and won’t work? The fact that a somewhat bewildered Freshman
is wandering around the hall with my most embarrassing shoe, hat, or tie in hand makes me want to run,
rather than retrieve the offending object. But, maybe I’m just anti-social.

Archives: Marc Overcash

Time Has Freed

Radios and victrolas in the dormitories are triple hitting.
