8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

Beyond Birkenstock: Feeling Frustrated? Join The Birkers.

Having sat through a fair amount of the confirmation proceedings of Justice Thomas, we, the Birks, can say without a doubt that the fiendish beast of cynicism (not to mention cliché) has once again reared its unsightly head; its application has clearly been universal and quite deserved. Was there, or was there not, a pubic hair on that Coke? And if there was, how did it get there? It occurs to us that masturbation with a Coke can could be quite painful for either sex (now, of course, a bottle is a different story). And, just how massive is His Honor’s penis anyway? Who, pray, is Long Dong Silver?

These titillating questions merely serve as the scarlet letter that brands this process for what it is: a giant show trial more suited for Wapner than the U.S. Congress (it's no wonder Dustin Hoffman always needed to watch The People’s Court in Rainman). Unfortunately, nothing that we could possibly think to say about Thomas’ hearings could be any more pertinent than what has already been said ad infinitum by any number of Senators, Congresswomen (kind of looked like they were auditioning for The Right Stuff with that group procession, didn’t it?), and professional pundits who rose to disavow any personal culpability, all the while pointing that ever-accusing, crooked, hypocritical finger of BLAME.

“Something must be done!” they have told us! The battle cry is plain, if its motives are not. The undercurrent that motivated every attack made by Anita Hill’s supporters and every denial made by Thomas’ legions was, and continues to be, a vast and all-encompassing frustration that everyone feels but precious few articulate. Don’t say you haven’t felt it. Haven’t you ever wondered why lawmakers who make a hundred thousand plus dollars a year seem to have plenty of time to bounce a few checks and stiff the dining room for the lunch tab but, nevertheless, don’t seem to have the time or expertise to, say... figure out a way to effectively spend the 1.3 trillion dollars a year in taxes they take from us?

Certainly, Justice Thomas must have felt it; his nomination process couldn’t have been more ridiculous if it were conducted on the island of Lilliput. Perhaps you think a hundred thousand dollars a year is a reasonable salary for the legislators of the only superpower extant on this planet, and maybe it is. After all, how much more could they make if they had to go out and apply for a job? Were we the boss of a Fortune 500 corporation (which we one day might be), we would think twice about hiring someone who can’t balance a budget and won’t pick up the tab for a burger once in a while.

Actually, there are compelling reasons why budgets don’t get balanced. Ask your Political Science professors. Really, ask them. The answer you'll probably get is something along the lines of... it's too complex a question to reduce to populist slogans and easy recrimination. The diffused power in Congress, played against a minority party in the White House, coupled with constituent demands and, of course, the omnipresent need to raise money for reelection renders these men (and a few women) of an otherwise intellectual nature completely incapable of making the money going out equal the money coming in. Really, valid reasons. Much too complex for the public attention span; too involved for a disinterested and disenfranchised voting population to thoughtfully address. Leave it to the experts, really. Unfortunately, nothing ever actually gets accomplished. And, believe it or not, ours is one of the most technically proficient, analytically subtle, and intellectually staffed governments in the world. The people (more Populism) have left it up to the "experts" and everything works fine, doesn’t it? Our evident sarcasm reflects frustration pure and simple.

Perhaps you feel it and perhaps you don’t. Let’s try another scenario. There’s a certain feeling that goes along with being told that you aren’t able to understand a particular perspective because you aren’t ethnically or racially linked to whatever value system the speaker might hold. Again and again, black leaders from within and without the Thomas political maelstrom have accused the fourteen white senators of being "insensitive" to the reality of being "African-American" in our present culture. Women’s groups, almost with one protesting voice, have charged the Judiciary committee with sexism. If only there had been more female Senators (feminine-Americans) on the panel, surely no such allegation as Anita Hill’s would have been allowed to lie dormant for so long. Can you imagine? It took both a leak (apparently a felony) and a media scandal (not yet a felony, unfortunately) to force these fourteen men (Masculine Americans, read spitefully please) to address the charges of the noble Anita Hill.

Now reverse the argument and withdraw the rather delicately concealed partisan bias. Instead of mocking the manner of racially espousing views regressive in the extreme and dangerous to terribly fought for and closely held civil liberties must be wrenching. Recall that blacks/African-Americans consider themselves to have been hyphenated with, and defined by, their race for generations. For a man or woman who marched with King to watch as the second black ever accorded a seat on the Supreme Court sails through confirmation by bigotry and malice. By changing the semantics of self-knowledge, they begin to control self-determination, a freedom long held in our country but seldom protected equally or distributed evenly.Strict constructionism, long the Conservative battle cry, would probably ratify Dred Scott. History doesn’t seem as pleasant to those trampled by it. Race is one of the most frustrating of all the means we humans have developed to differentiate one another because it is, at once, completely unreasonable and, seemingly, desperately entrenched. We have finally been able to leave it behind legally, only to find it still there waiting, hidden and malignant, within us all. Consider then what it must be like to have a prominent member of the black community rise and publicly accuse you of racism, a charge that could destroy your career and which you feel in your heart to be untrue; frustration. Or, consider what it must be like to feel, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that the Senate Judiciary Committee of the United States of America (The Proverbial Melting Pot) not only does not represent you in any meaningful sense, but also harbors certain members whom you are sure maintain secretly hostile feelings to any concept of political or racial equality that they might hold with you. You have no real avenue for redress. The political institutions to which you are guaranteed access are not responsive. It is the tyranny our founders feared but, nonetheless, ratified. How could we have come to this? Again, frustration. These are merely examples. There are other pressing concerns for which people eagerly destroy political civility: is abortion the ability to legally kill your child or the guaranteed Constitutional right to privacy? Justice Thomas refused to answer either way. With a wink to conservatives, who should probably have known better, Thomas blithely admitted that he had no opinion. He resolved himself to avoid taking stands on judicial issues at a young age lest he taint his precious judgmental ability for that time of his life when he would join the High Court and be asked to objectively rule. Was Thomas following Lincoln’s hallowed advice to keep his own counsel, or merely following the considerably more shrewd advice of paid counsel, some guy named Duberstein? Was the very pressing and real question of sexual harassment adequately dealt with or conveniently marginalized by "sensational" and "unbelievable" testimony? Was Clarence Thomas’ character at stake from the fourth grade onward, or was he even liable to answer charges on which the statute of limitations in any jurisdiction in the country had expired nearly nine years ago? What does it matter, you might ask, it’s only politics. Unfortunately, it’s not just politics, it’s the law and the future as well. Will we, and can we, allow ourselves to stay frustrated... to continue to accuse but never to accept blame... to speak but never to listen? Or, will we ever shut up, listen to each other, form a consensus, attempt a solution and, for God’s sake... give each other the benefit of the doubt?

J&A Continued from page 6

My uncle Hildebrand worked hard at Davidson before he left in 1962, but he found it too constricting. He went to Samoa and never came back. I wrote a song about it, wanna hear it, here it goes, “had an uncle, went to Samoa, never came back... Ayyyyyyy.”

J: I can see how the narrow curriculum made your uncle claustrophobic and drove him to a life of leisure in the balmy South Seas. But not only do we need to broaden the curriculum, we also need to revise the way in which we study western culture itself. For instance, the contributions of Africans to the beginnings of the highly-touted civilization of the Greeks are totally ignored by our professors. And, by the way, your uncle Hildebrand didn’t even go here ‘cause they wouldn’t allow black students within twenty miles of this campus in 1962.

A: Excuse me, I meant 1952; 1962 was a bad year. Anyway, I think I’ll call my uncle. He doesn’t have a telephone, so I'll have to yell loudly. What are you going to do?

J: I’m going to look your uncle up in the old Quips and Cranks ‘cause I still say he didn’t go here. Get with you in a couple of weeks.

A: Peace.

Stuck Continued from page 6

Object, an event -- oh day and night when all-convulsed celestial throes birthed forth a form, The Form, The Form of the Bizarre -- The Braves won the pennant! The Braves won the pennant! Who screwed up? But then I realized, humbly, that this event transcended the confines of the column as a literary form. We need an Epic. Call Homer. Give him an “A” cap, turn it backwards, and watch the heads of Pirates and Twins go flying from their shoulders. I guess I’m just not qualified to treat the only worthy subject of the week. So I’m afraid, fawning public, that Depth! Relevance! must take this week, with apologies, regrets and consolation for your literary loss, off.

Rude Notes Continued from page 6

Their bodies, it descended tremblingly from their temples and ribs. The young men float on their backs, their white bellies bulge to the sun, they do not ask who seizes fast to them, they do not know who puffs and declines with pendant and bending arch, they do not think whom they souse with spray. That would make anyone and everyone read The Davidsonian. My point is that sex pervades society. Certainly, I trivialize Professor Hill’s accusations, but let me suggest that there is no way in which sexual harassment is itself funny. Not even one. Our goal should be to recognize where sex is funny, where it is lust, where it is love, and where it is wrong. (Now you can go read Depth! Relevance! for some genderless, good, clean fun Jesse would approve of.)