THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING - MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

15

‘91-92 Directory:

By Meredith Boone

With the recent publication of the Davidson Directory, students were both overjoyed and befuddled. Everyone, especially the Union desk workers,
was glad to finally have the directories on hand.

However, many students expressed confusion at the directory’s cover design which depicts an old-fashioned telephone with the mysterious words “Twin
Oaks 2-2000” stretched above it.

Among students, theories as to the significance of the design varied. Many wondered if the cover was meant to parody
“Twin Peaks,” David Lynch’s recently cancelled television creation. Others assumed that the “Twin Oaks” referred to the plethora of oak
trees on Davidson campus.

Mike Van Hecke, Director of Publications and designer of the directory cover, cleared up the confusion. Twin Oaks was the
Davidson/Cornelius phone exchange during the 1930s and ‘40s. Since the "TW" of Twin corresponds to the 8 and 9 of
what we now call a phone prefix, the number on the directory cover is actually the old number for the
Davidson switchboard.

Welcome But Confusing

Explaining the design for the directory, Van Hecke explained that the “Minneapolis look,” design evoking the post-World War II era,
was the “new big trend in advertising, possibly in reaction to the Middle East Conflict.”

In spite of the bewildering nature of this year’s directory cover, student response has been generally positive. One student called
the cover “Really cool. Much more sophisticated than last year’s.”

In contrast, editorials lambasted last year’s directory cover, which depicted a red “Catatonic 90” phone with eyes, arms, and a
mouth, playing novelty answering machine messages. Much of the protest stemmed from student belief that the directory was unrepresentative of
the Davidson student body.

Van Hecke felt that a “simpler” design was called for, after the reaction to the “Answering Machine cover.” His main
goal is to create a directory which “stands out on a desk. The Answering Machine cover blended in too well.
This year’s design jumps out at you.”

D. C. UNION HOMECOMING EVENTS
FRIDAY NIGHT 10/25
Free Double Feature 9pm-11am

Home Alone & Terminator II
*VCR GIVEAWAY*

SATURDAY NIGHT 10/26
THURN & TAXIS (Free)
900 Room, 10pm-???

Date

Continued From Page 13

IT'S TIME If you unfortunately choose someone who refuses to succumb to either his wallet or his stomach, you have
one last tactic. Tell the entire campus exactly what he said that night when he drank so much that he
still can’t remember what he said. Steal his baby photograph and tell him you’ll post it all across campus. This
tactic never fails.

There you have your date. And although persuasion may seem manipulative at first, just remember - all’s fair in love
and war, and anyway, I've heard that Homecoming is one of the best weekends of the year.

FREE Short Hair Cuts For the First 3 Females to Call

704-786-5559

We'll custom build you a genuine New York style pizza slice by slice. Once you try us you'll never settle
for ordinary pizza again!

FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND EXCELLENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE!! Openings available for individuals or student organizations to promote the country's most successful
SPRING BREAK tours. Call Inter-Campus Programs 1-800-327-6013

@ pizza
@ subs
@ salads
@ beer
@ free delivery ($6.00 min. order)
COMPARE OUR PRICES
Our tray equals two large plus one small pizza

DUCK HEAD KHAKI PANTS

Berle Pants
Sero Shirts
Rugby Knits
and all that's good for campus!

GOOD LUCK WILDCATS!
Have a Great Homecoming

Exit 28 Cornelius I-77

Magnolia Plaza

1 mile west on 73 from Exit 28

8301 Magnolia Dr.

892-6678

Introducing Two New Sandwiches! The Meatball Royal & Italian Sausage.

HOMECOMING SPECIAL

12-CUT LARGE CHEESE & PEPPERONI PIZZA $8.55 (Tax included)
