THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS © MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

1991 Student Government Elections: Questions & Answers

Davidsonian: Where do you see those barriers, and what can you do to break them down?

Gilmer: It’s a defensive mechanism for the SGA. It takes a lot of energy. I mean you have to fight. You have to fight the faculty, the trustees, sometimes fellow students. In order to protect yourself and your close-knit group, you’re forced to create these walls, and that’s something I want to stop.

Davidsonian: I find it very fascinating that someone might go into the SGA with a sledgehammer and see how much they can change. Can we be sure you’ll keep swinging?

Gilmer: I don’t claim to be Joan of Arc, but I recently ran for YSSC president and was defeated by Kathy Beach. She called me after the election, and she invited me to work with her on a campus-wide committee. If we can create different executive committees, we can redirect energies to the rest of the campus.

Davidsonian: You don’t want it to be so closed?

Gilmer: Right.

Davidsonian: Other than the fact that you will be new to the SGA, what sets you apart from the other candidates?

Gilmer: I don’t think you have to be a born politician to be in the SGA. I think I could add a lot of energy to the SGA. I’d like to go back to basics. I’d like to reunite and redirect campus energy, and break these communication barriers which continue to be heightened.

Davidsonian: Could you delineate your position about security, minority concerns, alcohol, athletics, or any specific issue?

Gilmer: I was gone last semester, and I really don’t know about what’s been going on with the new security man. Addressing the minorities, this is a definite problem. I think they have created their own little microcosm within Davidson. I think we really need to interact with them. I don’t think they feel a strong pull in Davidson. I’d like to invite them to be a part of SGA, and to all our functions.

Davidsonian: What can you do to increase the impact of the SGA?

Gilmer: I think the SGA needs to be a little more closely involved with The Davidsonian, so that they can reach out and touch the students a little more intimately.

Britain, being the most vocal among them, supports a cautious, step-by-step approach. One of the primary reasons for Britain dragging its feet is its close friendship with the U.S. It is quite likely that any sort of political union with the rest of Europe would be mutually exclusive with the close, healthy relationship with the U.S. that the two countries enjoy today.

Finally, Mr. Holmes talked about the future of Britain after the resignation of Margaret Thatcher. He believes John Major will be a Prime Minister who continues Thatcher’s conservative legacy quite closely, but will rule in a less dogmatic or controversial fashion than did the former Prime Minister. He described Major as a man who “discusses, negotiates, and reasons” with his ministers. Thatcher was not one to listen to others once she made up her mind. Also, Thatcher would often get into loud, one could say uncivilized, arguments with labor party members. However, after Major’s first address to Parliament, members of the labor party, at a loss of anything else to say, screamed “Boring! Boring!”

Major left school at sixteen to care for his family and found a job in construction. One story claims that he applied for a job as a bus conductor—the man who collects fares—but failed the test because his math wasn’t good enough. A few years later he went into banking, then was elected to the House of Commons, and finally, ironically enough, he was appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer—the economic advisor to the Prime Minister. He was serving...as Chancellor when he was elected Prime Minister. Major has already had his hands full with the crisis in the Gulf, but he has managed to maintain support even from the Labor Party on some issues. His first major decision—to commit troops to the Gulf—was supported in Parliament by a margin of ten to one. According to public opinion polls, he is presently the most popular Prime Minister since Winston Churchill. Only time will tell how Thatcherite will

Students Attend NOW's Young Feminist Conference in Ohio
By Sara Sadowski

On Feb. 1-3, Sandra Smith (senior, chairperson of the Women’s Concerns Committee) and I attended the first National Organization for Women’s (N.O.W.) Young Feminist Conference in Akron, Ohio. Approximately 800 women and men attended, ranging in age from Jr. High-schoolers to retired persons, with the majority being from colleges and universities. The conference was held to inspire feminists, especially young feminists, to continue to learn about and to take action in the women’s movement. The group was energetic, enthusiastic, motivated, and concerned. The range of opinions concerning the women’s movement was great, and a wealth of experiences and information was shared. This was truly a weekend of consciousness-raising.

The conference included a series of speakers, from Molly Yard (President of NOW) to Hon. Patsy Mink (Member of Congress, D-Hawaii), speaking on such issues as women’s history, politics, the Gulf War and peace efforts, lesbians’ and gay men’s rights, abortion, and consolidation of all efforts for equality. There were various workshops offered on topics such as ecofeminism, the ERA, feminist spirituality, the feminization of poverty, women’s empowerment, women in the military, assertiveness, women in advertisement, and rape. The leaders of the conference activities included students from U. California-Davis, Yale U., U. of Minnesota, and various high schools, as well as lawyers, politicians, and many coordinators of NOW local chapters throughout the nation. Diversity was the theme of the conference, as seen in the different informational workshops, and the variety of women and men who attended.

One of the highlights of the conference was a talk given by Bill Bell, Jr., a junior at Notre Dame, whose sister, Becky, died in 1988 at the age of 17 from complications due to an illegal, or back-alley, abortion. Bill and his parents are on a nationwide crusade, working against state laws requiring parental notification and/or consent for minors to have a legal abortion. In the Bells’ eyes, these laws restrict and even prevent many young, pregnant teenage women from getting a safe, legal abortion; thus these women turn to the unsterile and dangerous methods of back-alley, or self-induced, abortions. The Bells’ message is this: it’s better not to know your daughter/sister had an abortion than to have her die of an illegal one. Bill’s message struck deep in most of the audience, and encouraged many of his listeners to prioritize this issue in their own agenda for action.

The conference was a wonderful experience. For the first time, both Sandra and I were the minorities, because we are white, heterosexual, middle-class women. The majority of the conference’s women and men cut across many lines, including lines of color, sexual preference, and income levels. The energy, devotion, and dedication of the women and men to efforts for women’s equality and all that is a part of this equality, was tremendous. It was refreshing to see a room full of college students and others attentive to and active in the social concerns and movements of our times. Davidson students need an affiliation with these types of conferences and organizations in order to get involved in movements which concern us. If you have any questions about the conference, feel free to call either myself or Sandra. We want to be a part of Davidson’s consciousness-raising, changing world. Call x2148.

March A: Editor-in-chief with Executive Editor position available.