2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS - MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

Rapes Plague Several Campuses

(CPS) - Rapes and rape investigations galvanized students at Cornell University in New York, the University of Colorado at Boulder,
and the University of Wisconsin at Madison the third week in March. On March 22, meanwhile, a U.S. Senate report
claimed more women were raped around the U.S. in 1990 than ever before, exceeding 100,000 victims for the first time.

“American women are in greater peril now from attack than they have ever been in the history of our nation,”
Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., said in releasing the report.

Cornell public safety officers were investigating the reported gang rape of a student on March 13, and Boulder police were
probing if an inebriated, partially unclothed woman student who was hit by a car after running from a fraternity party
had been sexually assaulted. In Madison, Chi Phi fraternity President Ben Schomburg said house residents watched as a couple had
sex on the chapter’s lawn on March 21, believing the sex was consensual. However, the woman later told the police
that she had been raped.

It’s Official: Enrollment Nationwide is Highest Ever

WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS) - Summarizing months of unofficial reports, the U.S. Dept. of Education’s official headcount of American students found
that a record 13.9 million students enrolled for college classes for the fall 1990 term. The number represents a college
population increase of 3.4 percent over the fall 1989 census. In a written release, department officials attributed the rise to
increases in the numbers of 40-24 year-old students.

Government Targets Five More Schools

The Government Accounting Office said it would look into billing practices at Harvard University School of Medicine, the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, and at the universities of California-Berkeley, Pennsylvania, and Southern California. Schools are allowed to bill the government for
certain “overhead” costs of fulfilling federal research contracts, but Stanford was found to have included items like football tickets, a
yacht, and some private parties among its overhead expenses.

Middlebury Bans Frat For Failing To Go Coed

MIDDLEBURY, Vt. (CPS) - The Middlebury College Community Council, made up of students, faculty members, and administrators, voted to withdraw
recognition of the campus Delta Kappa Epsilon chapter, which refused to comply with a school demand that all fraternities start
admitting women by the end of 1990.

“DKE terminated itself,” a Middlebury spokesperson said. Five of Middlebury’s six fraternities complied with the rule, though three of them
had to sever their ties to their national organizations in order to do so.

Eureka College Students Vote To Keep Their Red Devil

EUREKA, Il. (CPS) - Students at Eureka College, a Disciples of Christ-owned school that is Ronald Reagan’s alma mater, voted
overwhelmingly in February to keep the Red Devil as their mascot, despite college President George Hearne’s misgivings.

“There are still some concerns,” Hearne told the Pegasus, Eureka’s campus paper, about “the apparent paradox of a church-related school
having a devil as its mascot.”

Holocaust Survivor Speaks About Experiences

By Russ Tisinger

On Thursday, April 4 in the Morrison Room, Irving Mond, a survivor of the Holocaust, spoke to Davidson students about
his experiences during World War II. Mond miraculously avoided the Germans for the duration of the war. During these years
he moved with his family around Belgium and France, never staying too long in one place. After the war, Mond
moved to the United States and now lives in Charlotte.

In 1940 Mond was 16 and lived with his father, mother, and two younger sisters. When the Germans basically arrived
at their doorstep in May, the family tried to flee to France, but by that time they couldn’t get past
the border at Calais as they planned because the Germans had already captured the town. They then looked for a
ship to take them to England from the coast of Belgium, but had no luck. At that point, they returned
to Antwerp which was under military occupation. They were lucky.

Rice Outlaws Teacher-Student Dating

HOUSTON, Tex. (CPS) - Rice University has adopted guidelines to effectively prohibit teachers from dating students. The guidelines ask students
to file sexual harassment complaints formally, and warn professors that dating students can get them in trouble “even when both
parties appear to have consented.” On Nov. 5, President George Rupp “severely reprimanded” a professor for “mistreating” a female graduate
student, although Rice has refused to divulge any details of the incident.

Michigan Moves to Stop Student Press Censorship

LANSING, Mich. (CPS) - Administrators would be barred from censoring student journalists at public campuses and schools in Michigan if
aBill introduced in the state legislature March 13 is approved. — The bill, introduced by Rep. Lynn Jondahl, would still
allow administrators to censor “obscene, defamatory” or “disruptive” speech in student newspapers, bulletin boards, magazines, petitions, theatrical performances, buttons, and
badges, but would forbid them from preventing the publication of all other kinds of speech. The measure would exempt the
Supreme Court’s 1988 decision allowing administrators to censor anything against school policy.

Students Hold “Eat-In” To Protest Flags

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (CPS) - About 70 Harvard University students held an “eat-in” at a dorm to protest two students’ display
of Confederate flags.

Civilian rule, under which Holland was held right next door, meant the presence of the Gestapo and the SS. The
next May, the Germans instituted a curfew for Jews, fined them 2 million dollars, commenced burning all the temples, and
set to work destroying stores owned by Jews. The family fled Chalois to stay temporarily with a relative. There, Mond
obtained fake papers in order to conceal his identity.

See "Holocaust" on Page 4

Ruth Pittard basks in the glow of her award
Photo by Chris Lee

Pittard Wins Rotary Scholarship
By Tom Koonce

Ruth Pittard, program advisor at the Davidson College Union, has won a Rotary Scholarship for study at the University of
Canterbury in Christchurch, New Zealand. Pittard will study for a master’s degree in English. She will leave Davidson for a
year beginning in January 1992. The Rotary Scholarship covers all of her expenses during the year.

Pittard grew up in Conover, North Carolina. She received a degree in English teaching from ECU. Pittard began work at
Davidson in 1975 in the audiovisual center and language lab. She started her current job with the Union in 1984.
She decided to apply to the University of Canterbury because it offered the combination of a master’s program and a
good college union. While at the university, Pittard will study how New Zealanders relate their theories of education to extracurricular
activities.

A chance to further her education motivated Pittard to apply for the scholarship. She has always wanted to go beyond
undergraduate work but got caught up in educating her children instead. Pittard said, “Now I'll have a chance to get
back to the life of a student.”

Pittard received the scholarship from Rotary’s District 767. That district covers the Charlotte/Mecklenburg area. The scholarship requires that Pittard speak
to Rotary clubs in New Zealand during her scholarship year, and to Rotary clubs in this area upon her return.

Kruze Hopeful of Arab-Israeli Solution
By Jay Chaudhuri

The United States needs to recognize the rights of the Palestinians, according to Donald Kruze, a current official with the
State Department, who spoke to a Carolina Inn audience last Wednesday night. “The United States continues to be out of
line with world opinion concerning the Palestinian situation.”

Kruze’s lecture “Palestine Predicament, Israeli Dilemma” suggested a menu of U.S. actions that included giving Israel the willingness to compromise;
gaining the confidence of Palestinians and supporting their right to self-determination; gaining peace with Jordan for a joint peace proposal;
dealing with the question of Jerusalem and ensuring time for transition when the changes occur.

“The U.S. also needs to state its willingness to participate in the United Nations,” said Kruze. “The West had a
large hand in creating Israel and we should not abandon our duty for reconciliation.”

Part of the dilemma in the Middle East region is due to the process of decolonization that hastily resulted in
Israel and twenty other Arab nations after World War II, said Kruze. “The anomaly of the Middle East is that
it consists of an old society in a new nation-state.” New rulers in the Middle East have not brought psychological
satisfaction to their people, according to Kruze, because the region is torn between the Western way of life and Arab
culture. Moreover, noted Kruze, no Arab king is accountable to his people.

Yet the U.S. is also at fault with the recent Gulf crisis because Americans are ignorant of Middle Eastern society,
said Kruze. “Reading the Arab mind is not an American skill,” he said. Nonetheless, Kruze felt that the U.S. can
play an important role in resolving the current Arab-Israeli conflict. “Perhaps it is a dream,” said Kruze, “but it is
a good dream.”

Kruze is a retired Foreign Service officer, having served as a political military specialist in Naples and London. He has
also served as consul from 1976-80 in Jerusalem and also worked as deputy director in the Sinai mission from 1980-81.
He received his bachelor’s degree from Wheaton College and master’s degree in international affairs from the University of Pennsylvania. Kruze
is a native of Philadelphia. The ideas expressed by Kruze were solely personal and did not reflect the viewpoint of
the State Department.
