THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991 5

SHOUT OUTS & Sell Outs
By Jay Ferguson

O.K., here’s the column for this week, and I am sorry to inform you that there will be no random
and unrestricted dialogue between our two anonymous students, since one of them, the one known to our readers (all four
of them if you include our two anonymous students and their mothers) simply as “A:”, is being held hostage by
a roving band of rabid professors armed with 8-10 page paper assignments. Negotiations are underway with this irrational terrorist group
to arrange his release, so wish him luck and godspeed.

Well, since the column is all mine this week, we’re going to do the things that I like to do
and talk about the things that I want to talk about. Therefore, before I begin, let it be said that
the things that appear in this column this week do not necessarily reflect any of the views of “A:”, outside
of the fact that he took that picture with me on the tracks, thinks exactly the same way that I
do, and without exception agrees with me concerning every single aspect of God’s infinite universe.

If you haven't already passed out, turned to the Campus Living section or thrown down your Davidsonian in utter boredom
and disgust, I am about to move into the meat and potatoes of this column. I’ve had a lot on
my mind this week, and so I am going to just ramble through my thoughts and opinions, putting them in
the form of shout-outs. For those who don’t know the time, a shout-out is a greeting, friendly message, or word
of support from anyone or anything to any other one or thing. So here are my shout-outs:

A shout-out goes to the Alpha Phi Alpha interest group. I won't be here to see the fruits of your
labors, but I’m proud of you all for finally bringing some real diversity to the Davidson fraternity system. Brothers gonna
work it out...

I'd like to send a shout-out to FLAG (I would hope by now that most everyone is aware of what
that acronym stands for). Don’t be discouraged by the hostility that you will inevitably face in your efforts. You have
at least one supporter, and I am speaking of myself. When the charter comes through, I am not ashamed to
say that I will be a charter member, because I have a lot to learn, and I know it...

This shout-out goes to SERCH. I know a lot of you don’t really know what SERCH is, and may even
feel that it is elitist. Rest assured that it is not. Its members represent a wide cross-section of the campus,
and its goal is to have an extremely big impact by starting small. SERCH is on a mission, and it
won’t be long before the whole campus is involved...

Finally, a strong shout-out to all the women and men who are involved in varsity athletics. I recognize that you
all are making huge sacrifices in order to represent the best that Davidson has to offer, and I admire you
greatly. Hang in there, there really are students that support you.

Before I get too long-winded, too sentimental, or both, I suppose that I'd better wrap up these shout-outs. But before
I conclude the column, and while I’m on the general subject of “outs”, I feel compelled to include a little
section sending some perhaps not-so-friendly messages to those that I feel are sell-outs. I think that the term sell-out is
self-explanatory (if there are any questions, however, see me after class).

To the sell-outs who take it upon themselves to write columns when they know not that of which they speak,
take the time to ask questions and attend forums, speeches, and meetings so that you can learn about your topic
first-hand. You can only know the time if you take the time...

To the spineless lily-livered sell-outs who make flyers to hang up around the campus proclaiming anything that the producers of
the flyers are afraid to sign their names to, realize that the true advocates of free and responsible speech claim
their statements, taking full responsibility for those statements and taking the heat for those statements too, if necessary...

This goes out to the dangerous, hostile, narrow-minded, juvenile sell-outs who would attack someone different from you by throwing Commons
food or using any other weapon (yes, Commons food is a weapon that I would like to see banned, although
the NRA claims that all citizens have a constitutional right to carry it). What I’m saying is, if you throw
food at someone in the Commons simply because of the fact that they are black, or white, or homosexual, or
any other ridiculous reason, watch your back because one day you're gonna get yours...

Finally, this last one goes out to all the sell-out students, faculty, or even college editors who might try to
hinder the efforts of those who are trying to establish FLAG, or to stand in the way of its creation.
Step aside, because we need heightened awareness on this campus to achieve heightened harmony, and besides, you cannot stop the
bumrush. If you are not part of the solution, you were the problem...

Well, I'm sure that I'll catch enough flack for the things I’ve said so I'll quit before I get further
behind. To “A:”, please hurry home, we miss you. To the rest of you... Peace.

DavidScott: Depth! Relevance! All Hallowed Stories

Two Sundays ago the Depth/Relevance crew linked elbows ‘round the boob tube, lit small white candles with paper wax catchers
(which, our arms being committed, we held in our mouths), and harmonized the soothing lyrics of Kum-ba-ya (which, our mouths
being committed, we sang with our...) Well, we seem to be running short of organs, but it was touching. We
communed with the flickering images before us, our team, our Braves, and wished them thanks for the joy they had
brought us, and wished, to be more specific, that the losers had won. Then the home teammates might have merited
a full column. They don’t. The Braves have been officially dumped as a topic for 1991.

Fortunately, however, Halloween has not. Weird, bizarre, unseemly things frequented this past All Hallows Eve, and Depth/Relevance has the dirt
on the most intensely horrifying (i.e., coolest) episodes. Call this week’s feature “Suburban Legends Volume One.”

#1, Close Shave: On the night of Thursday, October 31, 1991, the lovely, innocent, pristine, crater-dimpled, moon-eyed, permed (body wave)
and Nike-shod angel, Suzy Softgum, age nine, bit half-heartedly into the enormous apple that old Mrs. Buzzkil always dumped on
hopeful children every Halloween, and which Suzy’s mother was now making her eat. Suddenly, Suzy’s youthful molars barreled into something
brittle that crunched. “Mommy,” she reported, “Something hard is in my apple,” whereupon, in a fit of panic, Mrs. Softgum,
recalling all the DFOs (dastardly foreign objects) rumored to be embedded in the Halloween candy of her youth, rushed the
apple along with Suzy’s entire bag of loot to the hospital for X-rays. The candy passed, but, buried within the
apple, doctors discovered, after careful dissection, an entire Bic razor with a hollow, tooth-gouged handle. Disposable. Fortunately, however, the blade
was missing.

#2, That's Plenty: October 31, 1991, Evening -- Little Otis, age three, loved candy, dirt, and his big brother Mike
(age six). Mike, however, could not stand Otis. “He’s always getting me in trouble or hanging around,” Mike allegedly stated,
“And everybody tries to give him whatever he wants.” Significantly, in terms of cute, Otis ate Mike’s lunch. “Mikey,” insisted
the mother of Otis and Mike at approximately 5:30, All Hallows Eve, “I want you to trick-or-treat with little Otis
tonight. It’s his first time, and he needs his big brother to help him out.” Little Otis beamed as his
mother drew him to her bosom, and Mike felt like kicking the urchin in the teeth.

At approximately 8:30 PM Mike rang the doorbell at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Buzzkil, a friendly and robust
couple whose fading sense of sound had not quenched their zest for life. Mrs. Buzzkil thought that little Otis dropping
his little plastic treat-pumpkin when she let fall the crimson orb was fundamentally cute while Mike about puked. “You know,”
bellowed Mr. Buzzkil, possessor of an insatiable sweet tooth for Greek pastries which he loved to share with friends, “I
got a warm batch of baklava just out of the oven and, well, (heh, heh don’t tell the missus) I
bet you kids have had about enough apples.” He winked at the missus. Little Otis caught a yummy whiff of
sweetness as the flaky cubes, carefully wrapped in napkins, were placed into his pumpkin. “I can’t wait to eat up
my baklava!” he declared.

Now little Otis always spoke as if a napkin had been shoved into his mouth. This fact, in combination with
the low battery in Mr. Buzzkil’s hearing-aid, generated the following impulse which lodged itself intractably within Mr. Buzzkil’s brain: “Could
you please heat up my big brother!” Mr. Buzzkil, a man nothing if not eager to please -- with his
conviction further reinforced by the actuality that it was, in fact, a cold night -- declared in his endearing bellow,
“Well, now that’s mighty thoughtful of you, little Otis. I think we can take care of your old bro’.” Whereupon
Mr. Buzzkil snatched Mike up in his jovial, bear-like manner and popped him in the microwave. “M’son just sent me
this. Says it’s the biggest they got so the Missus can cook just about anything in no time flat. Works
great on frozen hamburger, too. Let’s see now, guess we'll set’er on LOW.”

“Muuummphtt, Humpht, Ummpttermum,” complained Mike, his scarf unfortunately knotted around his tonsils. “Now, son, you just tell me ‘When’ after
you get good and warm, now,” and Mr. Buzzkil hit START. Shortly thereafter “Mikey Reploded!” as little Otis exclaimed to
his bustling mother later that evening. (An anonymous housewife (who shall remain nameless) tipped off D/R to this tragic event.
She was not surprised at the actions of Mr. Buzzkil, whom, she claimed, “Tried to choke my daughter with a
DFO.” She further claimed that, as block parent, she knew Mike to be somewhat of a cad and asserted that
“the beast got what he deserved.”)

#3, Very Funny: A member of the Society left the Depth/Relevance mobile parked on Main Street across from the computer
center Thursday night. The very difficult to deface auto received direct hits from several eggs, the yolks of which now
form a surprisingly thick gel on the back windshield and driver's side door, and one chicken (maybe we found feathers)
-- the eggs, no doubt, coming first (or maybe we’re just factually disencumbered). The thoughtless member was rehabilitated through systematic
flagellation. He’s fine.
