THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991 17 Sports Bruce Balestier: ON THE SPORTS FRONT

With some eagerness and somewhat more apprehension, the rejuvenated Davidson women’s basketball team made the trip to Belmont Abbey Tuesday
night for the program’s first competition in five years. Coach John Filar and his team arrived quite early for the
game and were forced to wait in the lobby outside the gym, anticipating the end of Belmont Abbey men’s practice,
for more than an hour before they could even hit the floor.

It seems a safe bet that Filar had never entered a game less prepared than he entered this one. His
duties as assistant volleyball coach had ended just three days earlier, with the team’s loss in the Big South Tournament
that Saturday. For the members of the team who had played field hockey and soccer during the fall, it was
much the same story. Their seasons had ended only one week before. The team’s entire preparation for the game consisted
of a few hectic practices in the preceding days.

For good reason, then, Filar didn’t approach the game all that seriously. He knew, of course, that it would be
a good indicator of the team’s effort and enthusiasm, but could expect little else after less than a week of
practice. The scrimmage unfolded just as it should have. Belmont Abbey (24th-ranked in NAIA) was a superior team, and they
showed it. They whipped the ball around the perimeter for open jumpers and pounded the ball inside to their burly
big people, often scoring very easily. Davidson turned the ball over frequently early in the scrimmage and often looked confused
on offense.

Still, while the raspy-voiced Belmont Abbey coach paced the sideline looking stern and serious, Filar watched with amusement. He recognized
the three officials as high school junior varsity referees, but kept his sense of humor, even when they hurried through
several five-second counts against the ‘Cats. “When they’re counting by twos it’s tough,” he complained dryly at one point.

Davidson didn’t play well, and they had no right to, but it wasn’t all disappointment. The ‘Cats took the lead
and came close to winning in each of the two ten-minute quarters at the end of the scrimmage, led by
a combined 20 points and 16 rebounds from seniors Faison Nuckolls and Skye MacLeod. And the team’s effort, the only
thing they could keep constant, was evident from start to finish.

To be sure, this season will be a learning experience, as the groundwork is laid for what

See "Sports Front" on page 19

Football Pounds Bridgewater in Season Finale, Wildcats Finish With 4-5 Record For 1991

By Chris Hood

Davidson broke open a scoreless game with 21 second-quarter points, and cruised to a 30-7 victory over visiting Bridgewater in
their final game of the season Saturday afternoon at Richardson Field.

“This was very possibly our best all-around effort of the season,” said an understandably pleased Head Coach Dave Fagg.

Quarterback Richard Howell began the second quarter barrage with a three-yard keeper on fourth down. On the ensuing possession, Eric
Moledor picked off a Chris Williams pass at the Bridgewater 30. Three plays later, Howell scored again, this time on
a 12-yard scamper. Drew Fassett’s extra point gave the ‘Cats a 14-0 cushion. Kevin Holzworth replaced Howell on the next
Davidson drive and led the ‘Cats toTheir third straight touchdown. After he lofted a 33-yard pass to John Bodkin in
the endzone, the ‘Cats had a commanding 21-0 bulge. Another Davidson interception, this one by Alden Smith, set up Davidson’s
final touchdown of the contest. Howell engineered an impressive 12-play, 85-yard drive, which concluded when Billy Gabriel took a pitch
from inside the one-yard line and pushed through the Eagle defense for the ‘Cats fourth tally. Bodkin was the target
of three key receptions, and Shane Mills and Frank Watson did much of the damage on the ground. A Fassett
punt inside the one-yard line led to the ‘Cats last score of the contest. John Dalton stuffed Jayson Markulin behind
the line for a safety to put Davidson up 30-0. Ronnie Howard galloped for a 67-yard touchdown run three minutes
later for the Eagles’ lone score, but the game’s outcome had already been decided. Fagg pointed to the ‘Cats option
game as the prime reason for the fine offensive showing. “They took away our fullback, so we rolled the quarterbacks
outside and made more pitches,” he commented. Howell completed eight of 13 passes for 85 yards, and Holzworth connected on
four of eight for 62 yards and a touchdown. Bodkin was the primary receiver, grabbing seven balls for 93 yards
and the score. On the ground, Mills carried 11 times for 65 yards, Watson picked up 46 yards on six
attempts, and Howell rushed nine times for 33 yards and two touchdowns. Defensively, Moledor led the ‘Cats with 12 tackles.
Moledor, Smith, Leonel Benoist, and Jason Hagan all had interceptions; Benoist, Bill Evans, Mark Hemby, and Tony Perez each sacked
Eagle quarterbacks. Although Davidson’s 4-5 finish did not meet preseason expectations, Fagg expressed only optimism. “We have really turned this
thing around,” he boasted. “In 1988-1989, we were 2-18; in 1990-1991, we were 10-8. I call that the ‘Great Turnaround.’”

Wrestling Begins Season, Photo By Aimee Norman

Jimmy Stewart Takes Second At VMI Tourney
By William Collins

Davidson opened its 1991-92 wrestling season last weekend with a trip to the VMI Invitational in Lexington, Va. The Wildcats
faced a number of scholarship programs, among them Virginia and James Madison, at the VMI meet. In an effort to
acclimatize his younger wrestlers to collegiate competition, Davidson coach Tom Oddo brought only his freshmen and sophomores to participate. The
highlight of the meet for Davidson was sophomore Jimmy Stewart’s second-place finish in the Heavyweight division. Stewart recorded a first-period
pin of Washington and Lee’s John Konklin, and pinned Chad Knowles of Longwood in the second period. In other action,
sophomore Robbie Fierro, wrestling at 126 pounds, captured an 18-8 decision over Scott Southall of VMI, and freshman Giorgio Hiatt
(142 lbs.) won 5-4 over Noah Tempkin of William and Mary. Freshman heavyweight Braulio Lopez did not win a match,
but recorded points for, as one observer put it, “nearly killing somebody.” In evaluating his team’s first competition, Oddo was
cautiously optimistic. “We had some guys wrestle really well and some who showed rustiness,” he said. “We’ve got some work
to do on conditioning and a few wrestlers need some work on their technique, but being the first match of
the season I saw some pretty good things. There is still room for improvement, but we look pretty good so
far.” The Wildcats return to the mat this weekend at the James Madison Tournament.
