2 THE DAVIDPHONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1991

Can’t Decide Whether to Work for Your Own or Your Wife's Father Once You Graduate? We Know How You Feel!
Come Be a Part of Our Support Group. We're SAE.

Davidson Unveils New Environmental Stance
By Irwin Lipschitz

Doing his part to celebrate Earth Day, Bob Collins, Physical Plant Director, decided to instate Davidson’s new environmental policy. The
first step in a three-point plan was to cut down the 5,000-year-old holly bushes in front of Belk dorm. Next,
Collins plans to remove all the trees on campus. They will be replaced by elegant marble pedestals with brass plaques
in remembrance of the trees. “It’ll be great,” said Collins. “We can keep the arboretum without actually having to take
care of the trees.”

The third step in the new environmental policy will be to pave the entire campus. The concrete, of course, will
be painted green to preserve the look and feel of nature. The policy is one in a series of new
cost-cutting measures the College plans to pursue in order to bring the students the most for their education dollar. When
asked if cutting down trees wasn’t a rather ironic and cynical way to celebrate Earth Day, a senior administrator stated,
“Earth Day, Schmerth Day. We have to look out for number one, and Davidson is definitely number one.”

An anonymous tip suggested that President Bush plans to make Davidson the environmental college. Having dead space in the layout
after an article has been finished really sucks, doesn't it?

Best Convocation Speaker Ever!
By Yako Isidorovich Perelman

In a display of devotion heretofore unseen at Davidson Convocation, several hundred seniors bypassed a weekend at the beach so
that they might listen to Presbyterian guru, Gwendolyn Price II, Moderator, General Assembly Presbyterian Church U.S.A. In an emotional appeal
to the class of 1991, Price urged Davidsonians to be unceasing in their use of “the mother tongue” (or “the
motherf------ tongue” he thoughtfully suggested for Davidson’s black students and alumni). “What is the mother tongue,” you ask? As Price
explained it, the “mother tongue” is simply the pure Protestant Presbyterian lexicon native to the majority of traditional Davidson students.
One student commented, “As one who appreciates a good down-home racist and sexist joke,

Martin To Be Davidson President
By James Brown and Ollie North

The Davidsonian has learned that should Jim Holderman be unable to fulfill his duties as President of Davidson College, North
Carolina Governor Jim Martin, a Davidson alum, would become the acting President. Contacted at his spring home in Haiti, Gov.
Martin said, “I hope I can come to Davidson and harness the dangerous liberal movement that is beginning to surface
on campus.” The Governor also revealed that his first act as President would be to “fire that damn cynical Davidsonian
editor and clear the paper of those peace-loving flower children. After all, everyone knows the current Davidsonian misrepresents Davidson.”

Also on Martin’s agenda, “I plan on turning Baker Sports Complex into a profit machine. Currently, students get to use
the facility for nothing more than tuition. I’m going to turn that baby into a Holiday Spa and get Sheena
Easton down here to oversee the operation.” The Governor also plans to raise tuition to cover the costs of “It’s
a really big step for the SGA,” said former SGA President Doug Jobe. “God knows thing would actually hap-: a
direct result of SGA ha saiheaidedutiatthinfsesuid: de do, the governing body of the students was definite in their resolve ing,
“we cameHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

‘Mighty close to getting something done. = having an impact around here. Nothing like this ever happened while I was
president,” he said. Debate raged at the meeting over the resolution proposing that — “see the proposal as something new
when they stalled the minus grades issue. Now there was a close call. It doesn’t count though, because they only
stalled the implementation of minus grades. I’m lucky to be graduating with a clean record.” Other senators, however, don’t agree
at all. One junior senator proposed expanding Covington Golf Course to eighteen holes in the hopes of luring the PGA
Tour. Finally, the Governor announced his intentions of turning the annual room lottery into an actual lottery. The student parking
spaces and class assignments would also be decided by a lottery. Tickets for each event would cost one dollar. As
for the Governor's academic policy, “I could care less if the kids learn anything or even if they graduate. The
important thing is that we keep the kids and their money coming to Davidson. Maybe then we will get some
respect. Maybe then Foot Locker will stock Davidson shirts! I can only hope I live to see the day.”

“I feel like Mr. Price really spoke to me.” “It kicked the crap out of D.G. Martin’s ‘bleeding-heart’ convocation speech
of last fall,” said another. Some of Davidson's whitest white boys "get down" after Gwendolyn Price's enlightened and enlightening lecture
at convocation. Other students were more reserved in their responses. “I feel proud to be a Davidson student in the
tradition of such white men as Gwendolyn Price. In the midst of cries for greater diversity both in student body
and curriculum, Price’s courage in standing up for the status quo struck me as exceptional. He’s a real hero, you
know, like Ollie North.” After priming his audience with a few harmless racist and sexist comments, Price turned to a
more serious subject and admonished the Class of 1991 for their support of the Davidson Love of Learning program. A
program he said, “which is sapping the very lifeblood of this institution. At first, I thought the culprit was fluoridation
or some other communist conspiracy. But now I realize that Lefty Dreisell has been behind Davidson’s downfall since his departure.”
Needless to say, Davidson’s students, faculty, and staff were shocked by the news. Price is currently on a lecturing tour.
He will next speak at Oral Roberts University and conclude at a David Duke fundraiser in Baton Rouge. Authorities are
still baffled as to the identity of the artists who recently spray-painted the KA House.

News Brief: Don’t Mince Words! By Muck C. Raker

Ms. Ima G. Frog was found battered and bleeding late Tuesday, shoved up under one of the big round bushes
outside Chambers. Ms. Frog, hailing from the Union Devoted To Changing Everything based in New York, led the march entitled
“Take the ‘HIS’ Out of ‘THIS’” which paraded down Concord earlier that afternoon. “Male dominance must be trampled,” she sputtered
when scraped off to the Mecklenburg emergency room. The primary suspect in the beating is Mr. Gill Holland, professor in
the Davidson English department, who was discovered with blood and lumpy stuff splashed all over his sport coat and crumpled
top hat. When asked to explain himself, Holland intoned, head down, ashamed but reconciled to his fate, “I mean... it’s
the English Language, man... THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.”

Hey Freshmen! Want to experience new things? Dying to be a rebel? Looking for a one-way ticket into the drug
culture? JOIN KAPPA SIGMA Where the bad boys go.

---
