THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1991

Campus Living
Jo Burrows

Ten Really Useful Ways Davidson Spends Your Tuition

I am genuinely distressed when I hear people complain about the tuition costs at Davidson; it appalls me that students
can ignore all the positive changes that the administration makes on campus. Every day I am made aware of another
new benefit that students can enjoy. Therefore, in order that we should not fail to appreciate these changes, I have
comprised a list of ten Really Useful Things that 1991 tuition fees have provided.

1) The most obvious benefit has been the printing of 500 very trendy and easy-to-wear CHAL T-shirts. Not only does
Davidson educate her students, she also provides them with clothing. These machine-washable T-shirts were made available to all students and
have proved to be the fashion item for 1991.

2) To accompany these T-shirts, Davidson also provided students with a color-coordinating bandana, courtesy of the school laundry service. These
cheerful accessories have brightened the wardrobe of every student and have become a fundamental part of the Davidson student uniform.

3) It is so reassuring to realize the extent that the administration cares for the students. The provision of brand-new
toilet roll dispensers in the dorms proves this fact. The “Generation 2 Twin” dispensers ensure that no unfortunate student can
ever be left stranded again because the toilet paper ran out. I am glad that the administration finally realized how
serious the problem with the old dispensers really was.

4) The addition of Kellogg's cereal dispensers in Vail Commons has also made life easier for students. We no longer
have to worry about having to find the cereal we want amid the confusion of different boxes. Nor do we
worry about...

See "Burrows" on page 10

Over The Years...
Norton Watches Davidson Change
By Catherine Mullins

On Main Street stands a small barber shop that has been in business for 81 years. The owner, Kenneth Norton,
known popularly as “Norton,” has become a legend in the Davidson community and a part of Davidson’s history.

Norton’s foster father, D.G. Hood Norton, opened the shop in 1910 with his brother, Rutledge Norton. The shop, then called
the Norton Brothers, charged 15 cents for a haircut. In the mid-1950s, the name changed to Norton & Son. Kenneth
Norton took over the business in 1969 when his father passed away and re-named the shop Norton’s Barber Shop, as
it remains today. Since that time, Norton has maintained a steady business in the Davidson community. Today a haircut runs
anywhere from $5.50 to $10.

Norton lives with his wife Bettye in the country, 20 miles from Davidson near Landers. They have two children and
six grandchildren, all of whom live close by. His fondest memories, says Norton, are of growing up in Davidson with
the festivities of Homecoming weekends, studying music in the old Shearer’s Hall (now Cunningham Fine Arts Building), and watching the
marching pep band parade down Main Street before football games.

Norton has witnessed significant changes in the College over the years, the most obvious being racial and sexual integration. Additionally,
when he was growing up, Main Street had more shops on it, including six or seven mom-and-pop grocery stores, a
meat market, a theatre, and the Barber Shop.

At the time of this interview, Mr. Ralph Glenn, class of ‘28, was in the shop for a haircut. He
helped span three generations of families who have been customers at Norton’s. Grier Martin, a member of the Davidson class
of ‘32 and President of the College from 1958-68, went to Norton’s, as did his son D.G., class of ‘62,
and his grandson Grier III, class of ‘91. Similarly, Sandy Carnegie, Executive Director of the Wildcat Club and member of
the class of ‘50, goes to Norton’s, as do his son Sandy Jr., class of ‘73, and his grandson Prosser.

Norton plans to retire in 19 months. He says he will stay busy at home working on his hobbies, which
include ceramics, painting, stained-glass windows, and gardening. He plans to work part-time at a plant farm and possibly sell his
artwork. While he does not know exactly what will become of the Barber Shop, he hopes to sell it to
one of the six barbers in Davidson to carry on the business.

To Transfer or Not To Transfer? A Freshwoman Ponders The Question
By Anna Watkins

Lately, it has come to my attention that many students have been considering transferring to another school. A large majority
of these possible transferees are freshmen. To what extent and how serious these contemplations are, I’m not sure, but the
fantasy of student life at another school is calming and comforting to some students, especially to the freshpeople.

I, myself, have had this school-switching itch. On a short-term basis, going to an easier, less-pressuring school...seems like a dream,
the perfect life, especially after talking to my friends at Emory in Atlanta, UGA, and Duke. I just love hearing
them say how they are going out every night, hardly ever have homework (one hour per day being an imposition),
and are almost making straight A’s. No, I don’t want to compare GPA’s, and I must be the only one
of my friends who parties almost less at college than I did at home. The parties and social life are
cool here, but it would be very difficult to party a lot with no worries. What happened to the Animal
House type of college life? At this point, that self-disciplined, you-know-better-than-that side of me, the side that probably got me
here in the first place, speaks up and reminds me to think of life after college. What does the ‘afterlife’
hold for me? Do I really need to go to parties? (Do I need to get a life?!?) Does it
really matter if my friends never know how hard I work? This question brings us to another rather egotistical worry—How
well-known is Davidson? I probably wouldn’t have known about Davidson if my grandfather had not attended school here. My friends’
schools are well-known academically or at least socially. Now don’t get me wrong; Davidson is excellent and surpasses most schools,
but I can’t ignore the fact that I am bothered when someone presumes that Davidson is a two-year junior college
in the north Georgia mountains. (Those people are ignorant, right?) My irritation is soothed, though, when people who know Davidson
are (naturally) impressed with my Davidson determination. Another not-so-academic aspect of the stress factor here is the size of the
student body. This again is more of a ‘freshman thing,’ for we freshmen are just now realizing that almost everyone
looks familiar, and there is not really anyone who we haven’t met, heard about, or seen yet. This fact can
be irritating socially and romantically. If one has a good(?) weekend that consisted of a few late-night or drunken follies,
almost the entire campus will know some version of one’s weekend frolic. This game of gossip can be embarrassing to
many. The small size here also leads to the high percentage of students who retain their HTH’s, hometown honeys. (I'll
write about the HTH factor another time.) Davidson’s size does have good attributes, though. The small class size is a
given plus in the academic area. In addition, socially, groups cannot afford to be exclu—

See "Transfer?" on page 10

Marc Overcash: ARCHIVES

Illicit Body Movement at Night

Things like this happened at Davidson. Even though the charter did not prohibit such actions, the Presbyterian Church did and
so frowned the Trustees. Yet, frowns and sins hindered the students little. Perhaps it happened something like this: One person
had the idea, and needing the expertise of others, slipped the idea to another and to another until word had
crept to all of the reliable people. The Commencement Hall in Old Chambers would fit everyone. Yes, that would do.
But we will need wax for the floors. Yes, and light as well. It is agreed then? Nightfall. And then
they would split to their respective charges. Some for wax and some for certain instruments headed for their rooms. A
group of students waited patiently until the horizon veiled the sun, then headed outside. There, one found the policeman and
engaged him in conversation. The others went down Main Street, “borrowed” the six tops of the oil street lamps, gave
a loud whistle to the diverter, and slinked back to Chambers. No wax? Well, cornmeal. That will do, I presume.
And while two students acting as natural as snow in summer watched for faculty, the sin began. Ladies were ushered
in, the oil lamps were lit, the floor was cornmealed, the instruments tuned, and the Underground dancing began.

In June of 1931, the Trustees of Davidson College respectfully denied the request to abolish its ban on dancing. They
stated that “The General Assembly which is the highest court of the Presbyterian Church, has from time to time made
deliverances calling upon its members to refrain from dancing. A number of controlling Presbyteries have expressed themselves as emphatically opposed
to having dances at the College.” So, in 1938 the Faculty posed the question, “What really is dancing?” They decided
that dancing was Round Dancing while Square Dancing, though “dancing” was in the name, really was a folk art. So,
when one “square dances,” one does not dance, but rather engages in art. The first blow was struck. On December
24, 1943, the first legal dance was held in Davidson Town. The Victorettes, a club for ladies, sponsored the dance
in the High School Gym for the Air Cadets. April of 1944 was the first Davidson College sponsored dance in
the same High School Gym. On February 9, 1945, the Alumni Gymnasium, now the College Union, marked the spot where
the students of Davidson College took those first legal dance steps together. And what the College has joined together, let
no one make asunder.
