THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992 15

Men's Tennis Thrashes ECU, Falls to Wake Forest and Virginia
By Robert Grubb

The men’s tennis team opened up the toughest weekend of its season Friday afternoon with a 5-1 win over East
Carolina. The Wildcats clinched the victory by winning five of the six singles matches. Coach Jeff Frank was especially pleased
with the team’s performance because the team has not had an opportunity to play a lot of singles. “With the
doubles tournament last weekend we haven’t played a lot of singles,” said Frank. “I was really surprised that we played
as well as we did.”

The team started the doubles matches and won all three of the first sets, but the match was called because
of darkness. Frank also wanted to rest the team for Saturday’s matches against Wake Forest and Virginia.

Davidson played Wake Forest on Saturday morning, and the ‘Cats continued their strong singles play. “I was really pleased with
the effort of the team and the way they fought back,” said Frank. Albie Varoski came back from down 5-0
in the second to win and force a third set, holding two match points in the process. Daniel Grinnan also
held on to win despite losing four straight games at one point in the second set. David Jespersen rebounded from
a loss on Friday to beat a strong Wake opponent. The strongest performance of the match may have been turned
in by Holt Vaughan. After losing the

Holland Addresses State of the Athletic Department
By Bruce Balestier

In a recent discussion which touched on a number of different issues, Davidson athletic director Terry Holland voiced his opinion
on his broadcasting work, occurrences at the recent NCAA Convention and Davidson’s imminent return to the Southern Conference.

Holland was adamant about clearing up the controversy over his television work for ESPN and Jefferson-Pilot Sports. He continues to
broadcast Western Athletic Conference games for ESPN, and recently has begun to work ACC broadcasts for JP Sports, including the
February 8 Wake Forest-North Carolina game. Since Holland is usually referred to as “former Virginia coach and now the athletic
director at Davidson” at least once a game, the college certainly gains exposure from Holland’s TV work. Said Holland, “I
look at that as a chance to promote Davidson.” In addition, it seems likely that Holland’s growing stature in the
broadcasting world will help Davidson, directly and indirectly. Already, Holland has been named to the NCAA's Men’s Basketball Tournament Committee,
a prestigious position which will allow him to help with the selection of the 64-team field and the administration of
the NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament.

Holland admits that the time he spends away from Davidson broadcasting could create a conflict of interest. “Certainly, there is
the possibility of a conflict of interest,” he said, “but I hope to try to avoid that as much as
possible through giving back money to the Wildcat Club.” To that end, Holland will give all of the money he
earns through broadcasting this year to the Wildcat Club.

Holland also addressed some of the issues decided at the recent NCAA Convention, including the veto of the proposed I-AAA
football division for schools which play Division III football and Division I in all other sports. He stated that Davidson
will declare itself a Division II football program for next year (as it would have done anyway). The following year,
ironically, the program will be reclassified as I-AA, but will continue toplay a Division III schedule. By failing to meet
I-AA scheduling requirements, the football program will be put on restricted status but will continue to play a Division III
schedule. “Really our status will not have changed,” Holland said. With regard to the more stringent academic reforms passed at
the convention, Holland said that they will “hurt [Davidson] slightly to begin with.” Since higher-profile schools will be forced to
recruit better students, Davidson coaches will encounter more competition for the athletes they have traditionally recruited. Eventually, though, Holland feels
that the reforms will help Davidson by producing a more level playing field.

According to Holland, Davidson’s transition to the Southern Conference continues to proceed smoothly. The wrestling team is competing in the
Southern this season, and most other teams will follow suit next year. In addition, the conference has adopted Holland’s suggestion
that most men’s basketball games be played on Saturday and Sunday afternoons. Next year Davidson will have only two conference
road games during the week, cutting missed class time considerably. All in all, Holland said, “Everything has worked as well
as we could possibly have hoped for.”

The schedule comprised of Division I opponents. The following year, Davidson will begin Southern Conference play in women’s basketball. But
Filar has five recruits lined up already, and insists that he’s more excited than apprehensive. He sees this year’s team
as a foundation. “They stayed focused on what we really wanted to accomplish. They set the tone for the future
of the program.”

Call Bruce and Write For The South’s Foremost Sports Section

Vaughan rallied to force a third set. He also fell behind in the third, but came back to win 6-4.
Vaughan’s win insured a 3-3 singles split. “Being tied with a team like this is where we want to be
going into the doubles,” said Frank. “This is a measure of our strength and depth.” All three Davidson doubles teams
took their matches to three sets, but fell just short. The final doubles match was called after Wake captured the
first two, and the Demon Deacons took a 5-3 win. The men’s and women’s teams will both host Kenyon on
Tuesday.

DAVIDSONIAN FEVER CATCH IT

WHY GO OUT FOR PIZZA: JUST WHEN “HOOPS” HENDERSON THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO GO OUT FOR PIZZA.

“Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. ©1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

How You Like Pizza At Home. 4pm - 12am Mon - Thurs. 11am - 1am Fri - Sat. 12pm -
12am Sun. 896-8007 Shops on the Green

DINNER FOR FOUR

MARCH MADNESS MONDAY MADNESS

Order your favorite March late-night special $9.99: One large pizza with one topping $5.99 plus tax... 10pm til close daily

Order a 16" two-topping pizza and four 12-oz. cans of Coca-Cola classic for only $9.99 plus tax. Offer expires March
4, 1992. Valid at participating locations only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Our drivers are not
penalized for late deliveries.
