THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

Kenya Continued from page 4

destroy every other species in the park and, in the end, themselves. Problems such as this are facing many African
nations and are what we were trying to solve through our discussions and research (needless to say, these problems cannot
be solved in a semester, but the first step is to increase awareness, which is what the program aims to
do).

The district of Meru was the first target of our last safari. This safari was tagged as the “cultural” safari.
We visited schools, markets, and farms in and around the town of Igogi, and some students spent the night in
people’s homes. I came down with a “tummy ache” and was unable to participate in the home-stay. Though I did
not think so at the time, I was actually the lucky one, for everyone that stayed out returned to our
camp sicker than I.

The second half of the safari was to Mount Kenya, Africa’s second-highest mountain. Though the mountain lies on the equator,
it receives a steady rainfall which allows for the growth of beautiful alpine forests. We set our camp at about
12,000 feet in the alpine tundra region where, during the day, the sun is blistering hot, but, at night, our
water bottles froze.

We took one other trip during the semester, this time, without teachers. Yes, Spring Break even comes in Africa. Four
other students and I traveled by overnight train from Nairobi to Mombasa, on the coast of Kenya. From there we
caught a matatu (a taxi of sorts) to Diani Beach, where white sand and palm trees line the clear waters
of the Indian Ocean. We rented a house with electricity, flushing toilets, a bathtub, real beds, and a cook for
a whopping $8 a night. We thought we were in heaven. We spent our days swimming, snorkeling, and making friends
with the many souvenir salesmen that wandered the beach. We returned to the ranch with sunburned bodies and rested minds,
eager to continue our study of African wildlife.

I feel like I have only scratched the surface of my activities and adventures as a student in Kenya. I
have so many more stories to tell (and I will next week as I recount my experiences as an intern
last summer). By immersing myself in a totally new area and culture, I learned more than I ever could have
imagined, yet I still have so much to see. The land, due to biannual rainy seasons, is ever-changing and the
diversity of animals is astounding. I have only just begun to understand the cultures of the Kenyan people. Though they
are very poor by our standards, they are proud and content. I hope that anyone interested in going to East
Africa, as a student or a tourist, would not hesitate to call me. Until next week... Kwaheri!

Outpost Continued from page 1

that he has asked the Union to keep track of the number of people served between 11 pm-1 am at
the Cafe during the nights when it is open.Pritchard said, “My own feeling is, once the kids know it’s there
it will be more popular.” The number of students who have visited the Outpost has stayed relatively the same over
the past few weeks. The Outpost has served an average of around 112 people a night since it opened on
September 9th. On September 16th, 107 people were served at the Outpost and 98 people were served on Thursday, September
17th. This past Wednesday, September 23, 116 people were served and on this past Thursday, 106 people were served. Last
weekend, 125 people were fed on Friday night and 122 on Saturday night.

Pritchard said that he will continue to operate the Union Cafe and the Outpost as they are now, having only
one facility open at a time, at least through this weekend. He said if changes were to be made they
would “probably [occur] around fall break.” Pritchard said of the Outpost: “We think it’s a great idea, and it’s coming
together very nicely.”

Students who have suggestions as to when the Outpost should be open and what should be served there should contact
Pritchard at x2610. Pritchard said that he has asked the Student Government Association to do a general study of the
whole operation to decide how well it is working and how well it is providing for students’ needs.

Recycle this here

Javisonian of Charlotte

GAY AND LESBIAN SWITCHBOARD
Information, Referral and Peer Crisis Counseling
6:30 - 10:30 PM Nightly
(704) 535-6277
A Service of Metrolina Community Service Project
P.O. Box 11144, Charlotte, NC 28220

Apple Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40
For further information visit
Contact Susie Abernethy at x2432

Apple Macintosh Classic II
Get over $400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our
best prices ever. And if you are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for details about the Apple
Computer Loan. But hurry, because student aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and only at
your authorized Apple campus reseller.

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is
a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. PowerBook is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia
is a trademark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic Thesaurus, and CorrecText® developed by Houghton Mifflin Company,
publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by Language Systems, Inc.
Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. Resumé Writer is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc.
All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 configuration only.
All qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instructions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in
this offer.
