THE DAVIDSONIAN

Frank Looks To Win Big South Conference Title

By Robert Grubb

Men’s tennis coach Jeff Frank will lead the most talented team he has had in recent years into its second and final Big South campaign this spring. The Wildcats, who finished second to Campbell in last year’s tournament, are one of several teams who expect to compete for the conference crown. In addition to Campbell, Winthrop and Radford have made additions which improve already strong squads.

Davidson returns nine starters from last year’s squad. Frank graduated only one senior, number three player Kurtis Zabell, last year. The loss did not seem to be felt as the Wildcats tore through their opponents in an incredible fall season. The Wildcats posted a perfect 4-0 record in dual matches and an equally impressive 5-1 record in tournament play.

The high points of the fall season were a Parent’s Weekend defeat of cross-county rival UNCC and a near sweep of the Washington and Lee Tournament. Davidson also defeated Liberty 9-0 in its only Big South Conference match.

Davidson’s strength is its depth. The Wildcats are as solid from top to bottom as they have ever been. Joey Manibo, a defending Big South Champion, currently is seeded seventh because the depth of the team is so great. “There are three guys who are ready to step into the starting six any time,” said Frank. “The guys are really going to have to be on their toes and play hard every time they step on the court or someone is going to grab their place.”

The starting lineup is led by junior Albie Varoski at number one. Varoski is not a dominant force at number one, but he posted an impressive 10-3 record in the fall. Frank said that Varoski has gained the confidence to play at number one. “Albie doesn’t have a huge serve and volley game,” said Frank. “He can play smart and beat his opponents by moving them around.”

Senior David Jespersen, who missed most of the fall season with a sprained ankle, regains his spot at number two singles. Sophomore Russell Briggs is the third seed, followed by freshman Holt Vaughan. Another freshman, Daniel Grinnan, holds down the fifth slot. Dave Tonidandel, who went undefeated in the fall season, posting a 12-0 record, rounds out the top six.

Senior John Beyer once again leads the Wildcats at number one doubles. Beyer is paired with Vaughan. Beyer lends the combination considerable experience, having teamed up with Kurtis Zabell last year to form one of the strongest doubles teams in recent Wildcat history. Briggs teams up at number two doubles with senior Dale Voeks, another one of the team’s strongest doubles players.

The number three seed in doubles is Varoski and sophomore Chris Parker. Sophomore Ryan Harper will likely pair with fellow sophomore Eythan Sontag to round out the Davidson lineup.

Frank is particularly pleased with the quality of the doubles combinations. The Wildcats have struggled with doubles during the past three years, losing several matches in the doubles portion of the competition. The team has responded to Frank’s increased emphasis on doubles and has improved its doubles play in each of the past two years.

Davidson opened its spring season on Feb. 11 in an away match against South Carolina. The Gamecocks are young, but several nationally-ranked juniors should make an immediate contribution to the team. The South Carolina match follows in a long Davidson tradition of opening the season with tough matches. South Carolina, ranked number one in the Southeast and in the top 15 nationally, could be the Wildcats’ toughest opponent of the year.

Davidson lost 9-0, but played very well according to Frank. Nearly all the matches were close but the Wildcats were unable to gain a victory. “They just played the big points better than we did,” said Frank.

David Jespersen played well in his first match back in action. Dave Tonidandel also played well at number five, winning Davidson’s only singles set. “Dave gave his opponent fits,” said Frank. “He never gets out of a match because he has such a positive attitude.”

The high point of the match was Davidson’s doubles play. The numbers one and two doubles teams both took their matches to three sets. Even though neither team was able to gain a win, the results were impressive because both of the South Carolina teams are ranked in the top 25 nationally. “I have to be happy because we played with the toughest team on our schedule,” said Frank.

Frank hopes the Wildcats will be able to continue their fine doubles play into this weekend’s Davidson Doubles Invitational. UNCC, UNCG and Big South rival Winthrop will all compete. Davidson will play at the Knobloch Tennis Center on Friday at 4 and 6 o’clock and again on Saturday, with matches in both the morning and afternoon.

Davidson’s home court advantage will also be improved this season by the new seating being put in at the Covington Tennis Courts. Combined with moveable bleachers, the new permanent seating will provide seating for nearly 1,000 spectators on all 10 courts. The new seating is being put in for the Big South Tournament, which will be held at Davidson Mar. 16-18. The school also plans to bid for the Southern Conference Tournament in 1993, when Davidson will return to Southern Conference competition.

SENIORS:

The Class of 1992's Gift is the Student Emergency Loan Fund in memory of John O. Reynolds, III.

If you are interested in working on the class gift, contact: Meg Barron (-6812), Carolyn Sherrill (-6647), or Robert Rostan (-6623)