THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992 15

Schwab, 9:16 before halftime. immediate letdown. Furman’s Soccer With 37:52 left in the game, Kyle Vosen scored with 35:29 to
Volley Andy Haile scored on a rebound of play in the half when sloppy clearing by Davidson let a ball
loose Continued from page 16 a shot by Hayes to make it 3-0. ing by Davidson let a ball loose
Continued from page 16 Ukrop got his second of the game with Deegan out of the goal. Three and the
hitting of Katherine Anderson were bright spots for the Wildcats. tically efficient offense to upset with 4:16 to go when
he shook off and a half minutes later, a break This past weekend, the team traveled to Furman and Western
the Bruins in Los Angeles. The a double-team to the left of the box down the left side of the
field pro- Carolina for Southern Conference matches. After winning the first game team had just nine shots, but con- 20
yards out, broke to the middle duced a goal by the Paladins’ Jay decisively against Furman, the Wildcats lost the
momentum and the next verted on three of them. UCLA took a 1-0 lead about ten minutes into the game
when Eddie Lewis scored, but might have let down after that. In the 13th minute, on a play that may
have been offsides, Davidson scored the equalizer. Rob Ukrop lofted a pass to Ben Hayes, who scored from point-blank range
at the right side of the goal. With 16:37 left in the half, Ukrop put the Wildcats ahead 2-1 with
a shot from 10 yards out. John Sampers took a ball through the middle and scored to seal the victory
in the 69th minute. UCLA had allowed only two goals in its first 11 games, but encountered a Davidson team
playing its best soccer of the season. “The guys are just playing real well right now,” coach Charlie Slagle said.
“Everybody knows where to be.” The convincing win was, of course, the most important in the history of the program,
said Slagle, “I think we’ve finally reached that new level.” Davidson 4 Cal State-Fullerton 0 One of the after-effects of
the UCLA win was a sluggish and scoreless first half against Fullerton. “I was worried we might come out flat
after the great game Friday and I was right,” Slagle said. In the second half the ‘Cats, as Slagle put
it, “started playing” and put their game a little bit more. Ukrop, on his way to tournament offensive MVP honors,
scored twice; Mike Newton and Andy Schwab also scored. Davidson 3 UNC-Greensboro 0 After a scoreless first half in which
Davidson pressured the Spartan goal frequently but could not find the net, the ‘Cats broke through in the second half.
Phelps “Samurai” Sprinkle scored at 56:10 after a Sampers deflection for a 1-0 lead. Less than four minutes later, Craig
Omli’s long header from 30 yards out found Hayes, who headed it in for the goal. Sampers volleyed in a
long cross from Lance Kinerk for the final goal with 2:10 left. Davidson 5 Georgia Southern 0 The Wildcats remained
unbeaten (4-0) in the Southern Conference with the win; they played a man up for the final 55 minutes after
the Eagles’ Brian Buback was issued a red card. Sampers scored on a goal-front scrum five minutes in for Davidson’s
first goal, and Ukrop made it 2-0 with a spinning shot to the lower right and put a hard, right-footed
shot past the keeper. John Hudson scored the last goal at 88:20 after Ryan Northington’s curling shot hit the right
post. Coastal Davidson 0 Slagle had said before the game that the Chanticleers might be the best team on Davidson’s
schedule, and after the game said that they hadn’t proved him wrong. Coastal moved to 13-1 with the win, but
was forced to forfeit eight of those wins two days later when the NCAA ruled that some of the team’s
12 foreign players had played professionally before coming to America. The win over Davidson was legitimate because the players in
question were held out of the game. Arguably, the key to the game was Coastal’s physical style of play. The
Chants committed 24 fouls to Davidson’s 11, and the frequent stoppages in play precluded any real continuity in the Wildcats’
offensive attack. But defensive miscues sealed Davidson’s fate. Fifteen minutes into the game, Davidson keeper Alex Deegan rushed out of
the goal to try to collect a long Coastal pass, but could only deflect it, and the Chanticleers’ Rob Williams
volleyed the ball into the open net from 25 yards out for a 1-0 lead. Eighteen minutes into the second
half, Davor Seric gave Coastal a 2-0 lead by beating Deegan with a superb individual play. When Davidson’s transition from
offense to defense was slow, Williams scored his second of the game with 10:46 to play. Slagle said after the
game that he wouldn’t call the game a dirty one, but asserted that Coastal’s physical style disconcerted his team. “We
have trouble against teams that play that physical,” he said. Furman 3 Davidson 2 Slagle called Wednesday’s Davidson-Furman matchup “as
important a game as Davidson has ever played.” The two teams entered the game tied for the Southern Conference lead
at 4-0, and the winner would earn the conference title and a first-round bye in the conference tournament. In addition,
a Davidson win would go a long way toward earning them an NCAA bid. Despite all that was at stake,
though, Slagle felt that hedidn’t get his team’s best effort. Ukrop put the ‘Cats on the board first with a
left-footed rebound of a shot by Hayes five minutes into the game. His goal was followed by a Carolina 3
Weyer and a 2-1 lead. The Paladins took a 3-1 advantage on Vosen’s penalty kick in the 41st minute. Ukrop
seemed to give Davidson the momentum when he scored on an indirect kick with :06 left in the half. The
ball was batted to the left to Ukrop, who bent the ball around the wall and into the lower right
corner. Naturally, in the second half, Furman played a more defensive game in protecting its lead. Davidson pounded the ball
at the Furman goal for much of the 45 minutes (including a flurry of shots in the final minutes), but
could not score. Perhaps the best chance came with 21:30 left, when Ukrop was fouled just outside the box and
immediately sent the free kick to Sampers, alone on the right side of the goal. Sampers’ shot floated high and
caromed off the top of the crossbar. After the game, Slagle was angry at the effort of some of his
players. “We’ve got a couple of guys,” he said, “that don’t want it, who are very talented.” He felt that,
though not automatic, “[an NCAA] bid would have been easily in our hands had we won.”

Davidson 2 Winthrop 1 OT

With some difficulty, the ‘Cats (12-4-3) concluded an undefeated (6-0-1) home season with an overtime win Friday night. The Eagles
had allowed an average of just one goal per game entering the match, and their preoccupation with defense keeps every
game close. A Sampers header redirected a pass by Omli into the goal for a 1-0 lead 4:28 before halftime,
but, though they bombarded the Winthrop keeper with shots, the Wildcats could not score again in regulation. When the Davidson
defense evaporated in expectation of an offsides call, Scott Rawlins sent the game into overtime with a goal at 85:15.
Davidson held a 27-6 advantage in shots after regulation time. Ukrop got the game-winner with 5:44 left in the first
overtime when he volleyed in a corner kick. The goal was Ukrop’s 24th of the year and gave him the
national lead in scoring with 55 points. The game was the regular-season home swan song for the nine-man senior class
that Slagle, in a post-game ceremony, called “the greatest class we’ve ever had.” The Wildcats concluded their regular season Sunday
afternoon at Marshall. They begin play in the Southern Conference Tournament Friday at Bryan Park in Greensboro.

corner, assisted by Sampers and

Friday, November 6:
Volleyball vs. Tennessee-Chattanooga, 7:00 p.m.

Saturday, November 7:
Swimming & Diving vs. Howard, 2:00 p.m.

The Wildcats lost the match in three games, losing 15-9, 10-15, 9-15, 3-15. The Wildcats’ middle attack continued to improve,
as Lorie Logan and Anderson successfully connected to produce kills off of quick sets in the middle. Howard also notched
four service aces and 14 digs in the Furman match. On Saturday, the Wildcats played an extremely strong match in
a loss to Western Carolina, 11-15, 9-15, 10-15. The offense was well-distributed, with 14 kills from Delery, 12 from Augustin,
and another strong performance from Anderson. The WCU match culminated an especially strong week for Anderson, who hit for a
.345 average during the week’s three matches. Logan tallied an impressive 113 assists during the week. The Wildcats’ record stands
at 11-17 overall and 2-4 in the Southern Conference. Despite the losses, the Wildcats are encouraged by the tenacious defense
and improved offense displayed in this past week’s matches. Coach Carolyn Blake was also encouraged by the team’s play. “Even
though we have lost a couple of conference matches, we have played each team competitively. We have figured out how
each team plays, so we will be ready for them at the conference tournament,” she said. The team continues its
Southern Conference schedule Friday night at home against the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.

DIRECTIONS TO CONFERENCE SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIPS AT BRYAN PARK, GREENSBORO

Take I-85 to 29 North. Go 5-6 miles on 29, get off at Bryan Park exit. Bear left. Go to
the first road past Bryan Park entrance. Make a right and then another immediate right. Games will be at the
Soccer Complex. No charge for admission.

NOV-DEC. LATE NITE SPECIAL
Large Cheese Pizza plus Two 12 oz. cans of Coca-Cola classic® or diet Coke® $5.99 plus tax
Add'l. Toppings Only $1.00
Hours: 10 p.m.-Close
Offer Good Thru End of Exams
Call Us! 896-8007
Shops On The Green
Hours: 4:00 pm - 12 Midnight Sunday-Thursday
4:00 pm - 1:00 am Friday-Saturday

CLIP AND SAVE THESE VALUABLE COUPONS

DINNER FOR 2 OR 4!
Buy a Large 2-Topping Pizza at regular price and get an order of Domino's Twisty Bread FREE!
Twisty Sauce available for only 49¢. Second pizza $6.00.
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary.

Medium 2-Topping Pizza PLUS TWO 12 oz. cans of Coca-Cola® classic or diet Coke® $10.00
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary.
