THE DAVIDSONIAN

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
KEVIN MILLER - News Editor
SUSAN SHEFFIELD - Associate News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
JIM TAYBERRY - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

Let's Get To Work

This week, Dean Terry presented the Patterson Court Council and the Council for Campus and Religious Life a proposal for
a new campus-wide alcohol policy. The proposal calls for radical changes in the alcohol policy that would greatly affect the
social life at Davidson. But before the student body decides that revolution is in order, The Davidsonian encourages you to
take a closer look at the policy.

The eight objectives outlined in the policy are appropriate and fair. We must acknowledge that there is a problem with
alcohol abuse on this campus and the objectives set forth by Dean Terry seek to cure these abuses. Many of
the campus tensions focused on in recent weeks have been directly or indirectly affected by the use of alcohol. The
establishment of policies that protect members of the Davidson community from the abuses of alcohol and create a more healthy
social environment are long overdue on this campus.

Although The Davidsonian agrees with the needs and objectives for change, we oppose many of the specific regulations suggested in
this new policy. Dean Terry has stressed that this policy is not in its final form and that he wants
student input on the final proposal to be made to the Board of Trustees at the end of April. In
a sense, Dean Terry has given us, the student body, a mandate to address the alcohol abuse and social stagnancy
on this campus ourselves. It is in our hands. We can protest and complain all we want about any changes
to the system or we can work with the Dean of Students office and come up with a viable alternative.
The objectives are fair, but we must devise a system that meets both the needs of the students and the
community simultaneously.

Support Russian Aid

The story in this week’s issue concerning the aid program that a Russian exchange student has created couldn’t have been
more timely. This remarkable example of human goodwill and concern for others comes right on the heels of a blatant
example of American insensitivity and narrow-mindedness. Last week the editorial board of The Davidsonian chose to print a “Quote of
the Week” which was meant only to be funny, but was in fact, hurtful. Although we are sure that the
person who made the comment was speaking purely in jest, we regret our decision to include it in last week’s
issue.

In writing this week’s article on Oleg Ordinartsev’s efforts to coordinate aid for the Russian people, we are aware that
the “Quote of the Week” appeared as a thoughtless, selfish, and arrogant response to real human need. As the Cold
War ends and the Russians struggle to move away from the bounds of socialism, it is clear that the Russian
people need our aid, not our ridicule. The “Quote of the Week” was improper because it ridiculed the diligent efforts
of Oleg Ordinartsev and thumbed its nose at the suffering of the Russian people. With the decline of the Cold
War, our nation has an extraordinary opportunity to help the Russians in their transition from Communism and to further improve
relations with them. We should embrace the efforts of our government to provide humanitarian aid and collectively leap at the
opportunity to provide aid through the leadership of Oleg Ordinartsev, Rosemary Raynal, and the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

This local project represents a historic effort. To the best of our knowledge, never before has one small American church
provided direct aid for another small Russian church. The need is real and Ordinartsev’s hard work has honored the community
of Davidson, his hometown of Pyatigorsk, and Davidson College.

While we recognize that the typical Davidson student is hard-pressed for time to dabble in introspection, we urge students to
spend some time evaluating their own personal biases and feelings. It is only through taking the time to think through
the plight of others that we avoid the insensitive remark we mentioned here. Lastly, The Davidsonian urges readers to learn
about this aid program and to become personally involved in its success. The students, faculty, staff, alumni, and friends of
Davidson College would be remiss in not strongly supporting this selfless example of global friendship.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North
Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of
the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held
by the Trustees of Davidson.College. — MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992

Letters

SAE Making Good On Promises

To the Davidson College Community,

Probably no group at Davidson has thought about, talked about, and has more concern about the current situation on campus
than the brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. As a house, we are extremely sorry that our campus is being factionalized
the way it seems to be now. Regardless of whether or not we are guilty of the allegations made toward
us, the fact remains that many people in the Davidson Community are wondering about SAE right now.

On February 11, a four-person delegation from SAE went to Rusk House to speak and address concerns that the women
might have. The meeting was a resounding success. Both houses were candid with each other. During the meeting, we stressed
the point that we were going to address the concerns of the women and act on those concerns.

The college has taken an active role as well and has established a committee to investigate all of Patterson Court,
including the SAE house. Several brothers of SAE have volunteered to speak with the committee. Each person who knows anything
about or who was involved in any way with the students from Wake Forest has made a statement to the
campus police and also has tried to talk with the committee. (Some brothers actually were turned down by the committee
because it felt enough people had given their testimonies.)

However, it is our feeling that the best way to make a change in an organization is to have it
come from within. Therefore, as a house, we unanimously have adopted a five-point plan which we hope will serve to
make the SAE house a safer and more enjoyable place to socialize. They are as follows:

See "Lilly" on page 9

Kimmel Lauds Campus Production

To the Editor,

I was sorry not to see a review of the Theater Department’s fine production of Antigone in your latest issue.
Although this letter will be too late, I would have encouraged everyone to see Professor Alex Pinkston’s adaptation of Sophocles’
tragedy, and the wonderful performances by the two dozen students who present it.

Antigone is the story of a sister who buries her brother in defiance of a royal decree. It is a
classic Greek tale of family, fate, curses, revenge, power, feminism (yes!), and love. This production is highly stylized and theatrical,
building on the classical, mythical quality of Sophocles’ play. There’s no room for error in such a choice. It requires
careful concentration and control from the actors, and they are up to it. Unwaveringly strong, they use movement, dance, and
music to tell the story in haunting fashion. It was just great.

As a theater lover, a lover of classics, an alumna, and a member of the college staff, I was proud
of the Theater Department and of all those who participated. Thanks to them for an excellent show, one I hope
many others in our community were able to enjoy as well.

Meg Kimmel
Class of ‘77

Foxx and Smith Urge Student Action

Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

To the Davidson College Community,

Okay, it’s hit the fan. If we as a student body are not motivated to make some changes now, then
we ought to reevaluate why we even have organizations like the SGA and the PCC. Most students know by now
that Dean Terry’s proposal for the new Alcohol Policy is complete. He will present it to the trustees on April
25. Between now and then (i.e., NOW), several different organizations including the SGA and PCC will offer recommendations and revisions
for the proposed policy. Surprise! You have the opportunity to voice your concerns before a final policy is passed.

So what is the SGA doing to ensure that student ideas are presented effectively? The SGA has an Ad-hoc committee
working with the proposal. The Co-chairs of this committee are Prem Manjooran and Chris Edmonston. Give them your ideas. If
you are certain that the SGA is composed of the most incompetent individuals on campus, talk to anyone on the
PCC. David Wright is Chairperson and the presidents of each house serve on the council. Either way, talk about it.
Find out what’s really happening. If we have an alcohol policy forum (probably the week after Spring Break), be there.

It is important to understand that the alcohol policy will change no matter what the students do. We cannot just
sit back and call Dean Terry’s proposal ludicrous. Parts of it may very well be ludicrous, but saying so over
and over again will not change the proposal. After studying the proposed policy, we feel that it will be very
difficult for any student to challenge the integrity of its stated objectives. Ideally, we must come up with specific ideas
and solutions that will address the problem of alcohol abuse on this campus while not ruining our social life. It
would be great if we could just complain about

See "Alcohol" on page 8
