Che Davidsonian
“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

Two Students Robbed at Gunpoint in Charlotte
Gunman Kills S.C. Sheriff's Deputy
By Tom Koonce

Friday, September 25 at 8:20 pm two Davidson students were robbed at gunpoint at the Bellissimo Ristorante, formerly Hemingway's, on
Monroe Road in Charlotte. The students were confronted by two males as they left their car to enter the restaurant.
The two men took their wallets and the car.

The two Charlotte suspects, Dwayne Eric Forney and Mareece Aldean Hughes, were later pulled over on Dave Lyle Boulevard near
I-77 in Rock Hill, SC at around 10:40 pm during a routine traffic stop. One of the men is believed
to have shot deputy James Brent McCants three times - in the head, back, and side. McCants, a 23-year-old York
County sheriff’s deputy, was taken to Piedmont Medical Center at 11 pm and pronounced dead before midnight.

The car was recovered in front of a Holiday Inn at 10:50 pm and Forney, armed with the handgun, was
apprehended at 11:47 pm. The other suspect, Hughes, was found at 2 am Saturday in a wooded area behind the
Holiday Inn.

The two Davidson students, who wish to remain anonymous, talked to the Davidsonian about this incident. They said that they
had traveled into Charlotte to eat dinner on Friday evening. After leaving the Cajun Queen where the wait was too
long, they picked the Bellissimo Ristorante. They pulled into the parking lot on the side of the restaurant which was
angled so the parking places could be seen easily from Monroe Road. The front parking space was open, so they
pulled into what they described as a very well-lit parking lot and a space which seemed to be relatively safe.
They stated that they were actually very close to the front door of the restaurant.

The two students said that they stopped the car and then stayed in the automobile, gathering their things together before
leaving to enter the restaurant. The male student, who was driving a gray four-door Buick Century, got out first. As
the female student was getting out...

See "Gunmen" on page 3

"Bonus Bucks" Faces Criticism
Pritchard Defends New Meal Plan System
By Tom Koonce

The Dining Service has implemented a new system of purchasing meals for this year which involves ‘bonus’ money added to
a student’s declining balance, while also taking away the ability for students to deduct meals on their meal plan for
lunch or dinner. The program, entitled “Bonus Bucks,” has received some criticism from students who feel that this new program
has created rather than solved problems.

Carleton Pritchard, Director of Auxiliary Services, said that he started Bonus Bucks to give students an opportunity to eat at
any time at either the Commons, the Union, the Outpost, or Baker Underground, on their meal plan. He said, “Our
major idea in developing Bonus Bucks was to allow students greater flexibility.”

According to Pritchard, Davidson College has been on a three-meal plan system since 1987-1988. After the third plan was introduced,
ten meals a week as well as the 19 and 14 meal plans, the following year students were allowed to
eat breakfast and lunch in the Union Cafe to allow for greater flexibility. Pritchard said that when the grocery opened
in the Cafe, it had a direct impact on how the meal plan system operated. Last year students were allowed
to spend up to $3.60 on lunch...and breakfast in the Cafe, regardless of whether the money was spent on groceries
or actual meals. After last year, Pritchard said that a new program was needed because students were spending more money
on groceries in the Union than they were spending on actual meals. When asked how he determined the difference in
money spent on groceries and money spent, see "Bucks" on page 2.

Union Outpost Vs. Cafe: College Examines Student Dining Options
By Tom Koonce

The new eating alternative on Patterson Court, the Union Outpost, has now been open for two and a half weeks.
The grill in the Outpost is run by Auxiliary Services and activities and meetings in the building are scheduled and
run by the Union. The Outpost grill is open from 11pm-3am on Wednesdays and Thursdays and from 8pm-3am on Fridays
and Saturdays. According to Director of Auxiliary Services Carleton Pritchard, the reasons for these hours are that the Dean of
Students felt like these were the hours most in demand by the students for such a facility. When the Outpost
grill is open, the Union Cafe is closed. Therefore, the Cafe closes at 11pm on Wednesdays and Thursdays and the
grill there closes one hour before this time. Pritchard said that he has “personally not heard any complaints” about the
restricted hours in the Cafe and the hours in the new Outpost. Pritchard said that he thought over a lot
of alternatives about how to run the Union Outpost. He admitted that there will probably be changes, “Anything is possible,
we need to give it two or three weeks to see how it works out.” He said, see "Outpost" on
page 5.

Photo by Lovelist

Reynolds Price Speaks at Fall Convocation
By Tom Koonce

This past Saturday, novelist and Duke University English professor Reynolds Price delivered the 1992 Fall Convocation address. After the conclusion
of his speech, awards were handed out for various student prizes and the Thomas Jefferson Award was given to a
member of the faculty. Brenda Tapia began the ceremony with the invocation and was followed by a welcoming speech by
Student Government Association President Anthony Foxx. Senior class President Laura Cunningham and Thomas Hooper, co-chairman of the Parents Council, followed
with welcomes for each of their respective groups. President Kuykendall introduced Price, citing the novelist’s numerous achievements over his three
decades of writing. Price is a native of North Carolina and a former Rhodes Scholar. He has taught English and
writing at Duke since 1958 where he is the James B. Duke professor of English. Price’s first novel, A Long
and Happy Life, was published in 1962. This book received the William Faulkner Award for a notable first novel and
has never been out of print. Price has since published seven novels including The Tongues of Angels, Good Hearts, and
his latest, Blue Calhoun. Price has also written several volumes of short stories, poetry, essays, plays, television dramas, translations from
the Bible, and a memoir entitled Clear Pictures: First Loves, First Guides. Price’s first volume of poetry, Vital Provisions, was
published in, see "Price" on page 2.

INSIDE
NEWS: Whitehead Recounts Kenyan Experiences. See page 4.
OPINIONS: The Humor of Tony Tunasit. See page 9.
SPORTS: Soccer Falls to UNCC. See page 16.
On the Sports Front. See page 11.
Spainhour & the Post Office. See page 8.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 - Davidson, NC 28036
