THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

But on the eve of politics, I have to throw in my two cents. And I surveyed myself, I figured,
what the hell, everybody else’s doing it. Political peer pressure. Sadly, I couldn’t get any of the “heavies” like CNN
or The New York Times to co-sponsor my little survey. (Keep those cracks about the size of my poll to
yourself.)

The study was conducted using scientific methods, and the results are completely objective. 71% of me thinks Clinton is the
best of the lot. Sure, there is character, but be honest. If given half the chance, you would have dodged
the draft and hooked up with Jennifer Flowers, too. I like Clinton because he’s positive. He may not be able
to wave a magic wand and make all of America’s problems go away, but he does project an inspiring image
that makes others want to make a new start. And that’s the most important part. The president can’t...

Please See "Lind” on page 9

The Humor: Tony Tunasit Without a Course

They say that PSYCHOLOGICAL INTERNATIONAL GEOMETRICAL EURASIAN COMPOSITION BIOCHEMICAL INDEPENDENT STUDY IN BUG COLLECTING 402 is pretty cool. But the
Seniors always seem to have first dibs on that class so I'll probably have to settle on 135 CALCULUS II:
MULTIVARIABLE CONFUSION.

Course selection time is upon us again. Immediately I think back to late August, standing in numeric order waiting to
enter the esoteric world of Drop/Add. When I finally got in there I remember overhearing a group of frenzied freshmen
who were all trying to get a biology class. They were having the following conversation:

FROSH 1: (screaming across the room) Does anybody have a Bio 111?!!
FROSH 2: I have a Bio 111.
FROSH 1: You do? Well, I'll trade you a Chemistry 115 for it!
FROSH 3: Wait! I'll give you a Chemistry 115 and Anthropology 101 for it!
FROSH 4: Hold on! I’ll give you a Physics 135, Spanish 201, Mickey Mantle, Reggie Jackson, Idaho, Calculus 135, all
the money in my pocket and my Cracker Jack secret decoder ring!
FROSH 2: A secret decoder ring? O.K.!

Actually, Drop/Add is the easy part. The most difficult thing about course selection is actually choosing the course because we
all know that the courses we take in the second semester of our Freshman years will determine the outcome of
our entire life. This is a proven fact. A recent Gallup poll (12,434 people surveyed, 12,420 wrong numbers) printed in
the bottom left-hand corner of the USA Today stated that the number one reason (42%) Fortune 500 companies did...

Please see "Humor" on page 9

Frampton Rules: On Zits and the Presidency

What is the deal? I thought that once I got to college I was supposed to grow up. I thought
I wasn’t supposed to get zits anymore. I was wrong, dead wrong. (Oooohh.)

Case in point: In high school, I had a nightly tradition of popping zits before I went to bed and
wiping the pus on my mirror. I was always worried that if I let a zit grow overnight it would
turn into a gigantic, white, light bulb on my face that said, “Run away, run away.” Each and every night
I went through this ritual telling myself with an almost fatalistic sigh that this would all stop once I went
to college. Well, as I already said, I was wrong, dead wrong (oooohh) and my roommate really hates looking at
the mirror.

Now, I want to pause here for a second and explain something to those clear complexion little bastions of worm
pus who never get zits. It is normal to pop the darn things. If we didn’t you’d have to look
at them.Round and wart-like, sticking out of our necks and faces. So before you start getting all grossed out, just
remember this: Our oily faces won’t be so stretched out and wrinkly when we’re fifty. While your chin is flapping
back and forth in the wind, ours will be looking quite fine, thank you. Anyway, I’ve been thinking of who
to vote for and whether or not I should make that decision any of your business. I spent many hours
trying to determine whether I should share my incredible insight into who would be best suited to run the country.
But, to be honest, I don’t think that’s fair. Besides, whoever I told you to vote for would probably win
and then the losing candidates would blame the media for influencing the public. (That last sentence was not an indication
of whom I am voting for.) It just doesn’t matter who I am going to vote for. It is your
own decision. I voted for myself. Now this isn’t exactly an intelligent choice, Chris Frampton, but no matter how you
look at it, no candidate has exactly what I am looking for in just such a person. The way I
see it, I have a view on every issue in the campaign. Hell, as far as I’m concerned, I have
the right view on everything they bring up. So why shouldn’t I vote for myself?

I just thought of something. I don’t want to interrupt the rhythm of this Wordsworth-like prose, but I think something
needs clearing up. We're not talking about the race for the Penthouse Pet of the Year here, we’re talking about
the campaign for president. Just in Black and White: Spike and Some Other Stuff ~ We’re ecstatic. You know why?
Someone (actually multiple someones) challenged certain aspects of our last column, which dealt with the beauty of African-American women. We
like when this happens—it shows us someone is alive out there, and it makes us think. Some people thought we
were shallow in our treatment of women because the only good thing we said about African-American women is that they
can be beautiful. We didn’t say anything about personality. We didn’t mean to portray women in a negative light. We
were just dealing with one aspect of unconscious prejudice. In fact, most people have no objections to conceiving of African-American
women with terrific personalities.

Anyway, we’re not here to debate endlessly about beauty, but about Spike Lee. So what about Spike Lee? We were
disturbed by some of the reactions to his visit. Before he came to speak here, some people thought that he
was a racist. These people did one of two things: some went to hear him; some stayed home. To those
who went, good for you. Even if your suspicions were confirmed, you had some good food for thought. To those
of you who kept your minds sealed shut and refused to go, pat yourself on the back for not supporting
a racist, and turn the ol’ key that locks up your little brain.

Please see "B&W" on page 9.
