16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

BASKETBALL SEASON UPDATE
By Bruce Balestier

Davidson 137 Warren Wilson 51

Davidson’s matchup on December 9 with NAIA Warren Wilson figured to be a blowout. But when the Owls suited up just six players, none of them taller than 6’2", it set the stage for a rout of gigantic proportions. In a game in which it was impossible not to run up the score, the Wildcats shattered school records for points, winning margin, points in a half (72), field goals (61), assists (39), and steals (18), and took a 137-51 victory.

The ‘Cats got easy shots throughout, especially in the paint, where Detlef Musch and 6’8" freshman George Spain simply could not be stopped. Musch scored a game-high 18 points in just 14 minutes of play, while Spain scored 17 and collected 10 rebounds. His performance earned him selection as the Big South Rookie of the Week. All 12 Davidson players who dressed for the game played at least 12 minutes, and the ‘Cats put six men in double figures. Freshman walk-on Linton Elliott came on to score eight points (4-6 FG) in his 12 minutes of action. The Wildcats shot 63% from the field and held the Owls to 25% shooting.

South Carolina 84 Davidson 56

With a solid effort against a top-20 Alabama team under their belt and three weeks of intense practice to prepare them, the Wildcats seemed ready to give South Carolina a fight when they met on December 30 in Columbia. But it didn’t turn out that way. The Gamecocks took a 37-21 halftime lead, put the game away with a 15-0 spurt in the second half, and enjoyed themselves in an 84-56 win.

Surely Davidson suffered from the 21-day layoff from competition which preceded the game, but that didn’t explain everything. The intensity which had been a constant in practice was conspicuously absent against the Gamecocks, and the ‘Cats played scared. Detlef Musch, who time and again gained excellent position on Gamecock post drone Jeff Roulston, launched a series of tentative shots and finished 6-18 from the floor. Pat Holloway and Frank Harris, sharing the point guard duties, shot a combined 5-24 from the field, and Holloway committed eight turnovers. For the game, Davidson shot 29.6%.

Sophomore forward Janko Narat wondered why the intensity wasn’t there. “They weren’t as good as we expected,” he said. “But we backed down anyway. I don’t know why. They beat us in the execution of all the little things.”

The South Carolina lead was just 11 points, 32-21, after Narat drove to the basket and scored with 51 seconds left in the half, and it looked as though Davidson might stay within striking distance at the half. But Gamecock guard JoJo English drilled a deep three-pointer with 14 seconds left for a 35-21 lead, and Barry Manning stole the Davidson inbounds pass and laid it in for a 37-21 advantage at the break.

In the second half, Musch’s seven-foot hook shot with 8:43 to play moved the Wildcats to within 58-45 before South Carolina put the game away. In 4:01 of elapsed time, the Gamecocks put together a 15-0 streak that made it 73-45. The lead grew as big as 31 points before the final buzzer. Narat led Davidson with 17 points.

N.C. State 83 Davidson 63

The N.C. State team which Davidson faced at Reynolds Coliseum in Raleigh on January 4 did not much resemble Wolfpack teams of the recent past. This team had already lost to Princeton and Iona, and, with the exception of sure NBA pick Tom Gugliotta, was filled with question marks. The struggling Pack had lost four of its last six games, including a loss to Western Kentucky in the championship game of the Chaminade Aloha Basketball Invitational in Hawaii five days earlier. If ever an ACC team was ripe for an upset, this was the team.

But State used an about-face change on defense to turn back the ‘Cats, dropping the passive, ineffectual 2-3 zone they had played all season in favor of aggressive man-to-man. The unexpected change held Davidson to 40.9% shooting, and was the difference in the Wolfpack’s 83-63 victory. Said Davidson coach Bob McKillop, “Defensively, they just took us out of anything we tried to do.”

In characteristic fashion, Gugliotta shouldered the majority of the scoring load for State. He poured in 25 points (16 in the first half), including a brilliant 5-6 performance from beyond the three-point arc. Gugliotta began the game with consecutive threes for a 6-0 N.C. State lead, and his fourth three-pointer of the half, at the 8:55 mark, gave the Wolfpack a 26-12 lead. State coasted to a 41-25 cushion at halftime. Migjen Bakalli started the second half with a three-pointer to push the lead to 19 points, and the Wildcats could come no closer than 17 points the rest of the way.

One bright spot for Davidson was the second-half shooting of sophomore guard Jason Zimmerman. Zimmerman recovered from a 1-6 effort in the opening half to hit on 6 of 9 in the second, and led the team with 17 points. Detlef Musch was effective on offense, scoring 12 points on 5-9 shooting, but was manhandled on the other end by State center Kevin Thompson (16 points).

Coastal Carolina 79 Davidson 62

In the Wildcats’ Big South opener on January 8 in Myrtle Beach, S.C., Coastal Carolina opened the game with a 24-3 spurt, and though Davidson twice in the second half fought back to within five points, the handicap proved too great to overcome. The Chanticleers staved off a pair of Davidson surges and coasted to a 79-62 win.

The first 17 minutes of the game were spectacularly easy for Coastal. Juco transfer Marty Whitfield came off screens to hit open jumpers and forward Eric Grissett scored with equal ease from the paint and the perimeter (both finished with 20 points). The Chants extended their 24-3 lead into a 35-15 edge with 2:52 left in the half. But the ‘Cats gave themselves a chance and gathered some momentum by scoring the final seven points of the half, the last five by Frank Harris. They capitalized on that momentum at the outset of the second half, launching a 12-4 run to pull within 39-34. Jason Zimmerman scored six points during the spurt. Coastal countered with a 10-2 run of their own thatgave them a 49-36 lead with 12:31 to play. Benefitting from a technical foul on Coastal coach Russ Bergman, the Wildcats fought back again. Ron Horton’s pair of free throws with 5:06 left drew Davidson within 57-52 before the wheels fell off. An alley-oop and a Whitfield three-pointer produced a ten-point Coastal lead (62-52), and the Chanticleers spent the final four minutes of the game making foul shots. Harris scored 22 to lead the Wildcats. Janko Narat added 14.

64-59 Charleston Southern Davidson

No doubt desiring a change after his team’s disastrous start in Myrtle Beach, Davidson coach Bob McKillop went with a new starting five against Charleston Southern in Charleston on January 11. The shifted lineup produced some improved play, but the Wildcats didn’t execute well enough offensively down the stretch in a 64-59 defeat. Center Detlef Musch and small forward Janko Narat remained in the lineup, but Frank Harris (replacing the departed Pat Holloway at point guard), Sterling Freeman (off-guard), and Ron Horton (big forward) were new additions. Horton’s offensive capabilities take some of the defensive pressure off of Musch. The personnel changes generated a solid half of basketball in the first half, as Davidson took a 30-28 halftime lead when Harris found Musch for a layup as time expired. Musch scored 10 points in the first half and finished with 19, scoring with ease over Charleston Southern’s much smaller front line. But the Bucs tied the game on the first possession of the second half and tried to break the game open with a run midway through the period. Six points in succession gave Charleston Southern a 55-48 lead with 9:06 left. Davidson fought back, though, and when Musch spun baseline, dunked, was fouled, and finished the three-point play, the game was tied at 55 with 6:43 to go. From there, it was a matter of execution. Though Davidson gained the lead briefly at 57-56 on Sterling Freeman’s baseline jumper, the ‘Cats could not convert enough on the offensive end. The Bucs made enough free throws down the stretch to earn a 64-59 win.

47 Davidson Campbell

As Davidson returned home to meet Campbell last Monday, their first game since December 9, they were a team in a fragile state of mind. Four consecutive losses on the road had dropped their record to 3-6, and the team continued to adjust to life without point guard Pat Holloway and forward Scott Alford (both of whom left for personal reasons) and senior guard Paul Denmond (lost to a knee injury). A loss to Campbell could have had a devastating effect. Naturally, the game went down to the wire. Down 47-46 with 16 seconds left, freshman guard Frank Harris (the starter since Holloway’s departure) dribbled up the floor with the intention of finding Jason Zimmerman for an open jump shot. When that didn’t materialize, Harris took matters into his own hands, penetrating into the lane and drawing a foul with :07 to play. Harris carried to the line the memory of a similar situation at William and Mary, in which he missed the front end of a one-and-one late in a one-point overtime loss. But it didn’t show. This time Harris made both shots, and when Campbell’s Scott Neely hit the side of the backboard with a desperation attempt, the ‘Cats had escaped with their first conference win. The pressure-filled finish concluded an otherwise ugly game. Campbell shot just 34% for the game, and Davidson was little better at 40%. Jason Zimmerman had 13 points and Detlef Musch 11 for the Wildcats. Davidson took a 24-17 halftime lead thanks mainly to defense. Musch rejected three Campbell shots and the ‘Cats held the Camels to 28% first-half shooting. But the Camels used a quick spurt to open the second half to tie the game at 26, and neither team gained more than a three-point lead thereafter.

Davidson 64 UNC-Asheville 45

In what was their best performance in many weeks, the Wildcats captured their first road win and evened their Big South record at 2-2 with a 64-45 win at UNC-Asheville. Davidson outscored the Bulldogs 25-6 over the last 10:56 of the game to take the win. Janko Narat broke the ‘Cats loose from a 39-39 deadlock by scoring eight points in just over four minutes to give Davidson a 49-43 lead. From there, the Wildcats won the game at the free throw line. Detlef Musch made four of four at the stripe to give the ‘Cats a 53-43 advantage, and the game was effectively over. Davidson shot 65% in the second half and held UNCA to 30.8% in the half. Narat paced the team with 18 points (6-9 FG) and Jason Zimmerman added 15 and a team-high seven rebounds.

Liberty Davidson 86-68

It is a truth universally acknowledged that a team which shoots 65% from the field in a basketball game cannot possibly lose. The Liberty Flames reaffirmed that maxim Saturday night in Lynchburg, Va., shooting 65.2% in an 86-68 win over Davidson. It was that hot shooting that propelled the Flames on a 27-2 run that put the game away in the second half. Davidson, trailing 8-0 in the early going, came back to take a 38-35 lead at halftime by scoring the final four points of the half. Janko Narat hit two free throws with :16 left and then, as the Flames held the ball for the last shot of the half, knocked the ball away from Liberty’s Mike Coleman. Jason Zimmerman picked up the ball, dribbled to the left side, and hit a 15-foot jumper as the buzzer sounded, giving Davidson considerable momentum to start the second half. The ‘Cats appeared to be holding their own when Narat got behind the Liberty press and hit a layup for a 45-41 Davidson lead with 17:00 to play. But the Liberty run came suddenly. The Flames scored the next 22 points of the game (as Davidson went scoreless for 8:34), took a 63-45 lead, and the game was over. Liberty shot 77% from the floor in the second half. Jason Zimmerman scored 19 points and Janko Narat had 18 points and 9 rebounds for the ‘Cats, who fell to 5-7. Center Detlef Musch, beset by foul trouble throughout, played only 17 minutes and scored just six points. The Wildcats next play Tuesday night at 7:35 p.m. against 18th-ranked UNCC at Charlotte Coliseum.