THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

Inside Art “Ideas” By B.J. Rudell

On my numerous visits to foreign lands, I’ve believed there is an endless universe, and the ignorance of those I’ve
seen has come, you’ll see, to be their curse (in this vast and endless universe). By confronting someone with knowledge
on what my concept is all about, he does not lash out, thrash out, because in the concept he is
already immersed. But when I give an opinion on a matter to which someone is unfamiliar, that someone becomes threatened,
and (it’s soon evident) a misunderstanding lurks.

I met a buffalo, 4000 B.C., and I said in a voice well-rehearsed: “You are not dominant on this land,
for there is Man elsewhere on earth.” The unlearned beast, it became threatened and started to snarl at me: “You
fib, you lie, you feed me untruths...” but I assured it once more of its worth. And off I went
through the endless universe...

I met a Roman, 100 B.C., and asked if he knew about Man; “Why yes,” he explained, “I know of
them all: those who are pale and those who are tan.” And he smiled. I warned him there is no
reason for happiness, and that he shouldn’t feel so clever: “Your country shouldn’t feel so clever: empires do not last
forever.” The uneducated tyrant, he filled with spite, and started to glare at me: “You fleer, you jeer, you scoff,
you mock...” but I told him to insult me never. And off I went through the endless universe...

I met an historian, 1992 A.D., and asked if he knew about empires that fall; “Why yes,” he answered, “I
know of them all, like the Romans, the Greeks, and insects that crawl.” And he smiled. I warned him that
he shouldn’t be smug, for he is far from being all-knowing: “People get stupid as they get older; your brain
activity is slowing.” The uninformed snob, his face had turned red, and he gave me a shot in the...jaw: “You
dolt, you dunce, you insult my presence...” but I told him I better be going. And off I went through
the endless universe...

When I got home from all these journeys, my day’s activities were ended, and I learned that a new idea
can be dangerous when it is told to someone for whom it is intended. But suddenly my thoughts were halted,
and a strange apparition appeared!

“You witless, mindless moron,” I cried; “how can you say such a thing?”

“Ahh,” it said calmly, “you are a fool: The rule of ideas for you, too, is intended.” And off it
went through the endless universe.

But... then it happened.

The Emperor’s ToughSkins
By Bob Dixon, '91

When I was eleven I went steady with my next door neighbor, Wendy Overduyn, who happened to be ten at
the time. We would spend our summer days together; me working hard in my Father’s garden, she standing by my
side singing the songs from Grease. We went on in perfect harmony until one day, as I was shucking peas,
she stopped right in the middle of “Beauty School Drop-Out,” turned to me with a coyly ambiguous smile, and challenged,
“Are you a boy?”

“Yes.”

“Then prove it.”

Puzzled as to how I was to do this, I sought in her eyes some unspoken solution. “Thump, thump, Gumpa
jumpa, THUMP THUMP,” went my heart as I saw her eyes trickle down my brown and orange t-shirt and settle
upon my red and blue ToughSkins. I hadn’t even held her hand yet.

“What... what do you mean,” I stammered, feigning ignorance.

She just kept looking at my ToughSkins and didn’t say anything. My mind racing, I wondered what my best friend,
a fully bearded fourteen-year-old named Iron John-Boy, would do. He would probably tell Wendy that he was a boy because
he was stronger than her and boys are stronger than girls. Good idea, Iron John-Boy! That’s what I’ll do.

With a quick silent-movie gesture, I knelt down and shucked my own shell, giving sunlight to the young peas of
my own private pod. In an almost unconscious paralysis, I stood boldly as if someone had just slapped my rear.
Her mouth opened slightly and she lifted her eyes back to mine.

“Wow,” she said.

“Yeah, pretty neat, huh?” and I thought about some tricks I could show her, when suddenly the sliding door shot
open and Dad came out onto the deck. With one big heave, I lunged for the coverage of a nearby
tomato plant. My eyes wide with terror, and Wendy laughing all the while, I pulled my pants up so hard
that I have never been able to get them down since.

I should have done what my prematurely mature friend would have done. Things would have been so much easier, and
if you’re reading this, I just want to say that you knew best, and goodnight, Iron John-Boy.
