‘THE DAVIDSONIAN ELECTION '92 MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992 5 ELECTION COVERAGE

Students, faculty, and staff are also very important to me. That’s throughout the administration, including the trustees. I feel like
there are a lot of misconceptions about what the students believe is going on around school. In other words, my
view of what Dean Terry says, or Dean Williams says might not be what the students think, and I want
to clear up some of that. I hope to provide more opportunities for communications by asking people like Dean Williams
to express himself in the paper. I think the paper is a great vehicle and that it needs to be
used more frequently. When difficult issues confuse the campus, I think writings from administrators can help clear things up. I’d
also like to see administrators come to some SGA meetings.

Davidsonian: We asked the last candidate about the race-relations problems on campus this year. What do you think of this
issue?

Cunningham: I think that there is definitely a problem. This year, many black freshmen have left or are leaving, and
I am not happy about that. As far as the SGA is concerned, through the Solidarity Committee, and through the
Council on Minority Affairs, we hope to plan some events and work with the President’s Council on Minorities to bring
minority faculty to Davidson and to bring more minority students. That’s hard when racism is a problem all over the
nation, and I think Davidson is feeling the repercussions of the national problem.

Anthony Foxx

I feel that I must be candid as I bring forth my reasons for running and aspirations for the coming
year. I rather risk losing your vote now than losing your support later. With respect to our place in the
history of this institution, my philosophy is simple: we must take care to plan for the future. Most of the
high priority student issues have festered for years and are only now being addressed. For example, tolerance has become a
buzzword this year, but, in my experience, intolerance has been an issue every year. We have to look beyond tolerance
to understanding.

My vision and hope in these times is that the student body push Davidson to greatness and progress, from the
bottom up. The distinguishing element of Davidson student government politics is its grassroots nature. This, too, distinguishes the campus as
a whole. We must emphasize and over-emphasize this as we govern ourselves, and the Student Government Association President for today
must have the courage and persistence to facilitate the sound resolution of pressing issues.

The alcohol quagmire is a case in point. I think that the Dean of Students’ office, the Faculty, and the
Board of Trustees are right: something must be done. I do not think that it is a popular view among
students, but the truth is that something will be done. The question, then, is simple -- will we impose stiffer
limits on ourselves, or will we wait for restrictions to be handed to us? If we take sincere action to
resolve the problem, I believe that I can convince the Board, the Faculty, and the Administration that it will be
better than heavy-handed restrictions from the powers that be.

Indeed, the entire history of the institution is approaching a turning point in these regards as well as others. What
role will students play? What will the Davidson experience mean for succeeding generations of students? What will it mean as
we carry our degrees into the hustle and bustle of the real world? We share a common stake in Davidson.
A common thread binds us to one another as individuals, as students, as members of this campus community, and as
departments of the College. The SGA President is weak without student approval and active support, and these are the qualities
I want us to nurture in the coming year. If we want Davidson to continue its mission and become a
greater place, we must. Thus, it is not simply your vote I seek to win on Tuesday; I want to
win you over.

Davidsonian: If you advocated the restriction of alcohol on campus, do you think that such action would drive students to
drink elsewhere, and lead to a greater number of alcohol-related accidents? If so, what would you do about it then?

Foxx: That’s very hypothetical. What I would like to do is to sit down with the entire Patterson Court Council
to discuss what we could do realistically to remove some of the college’s liability, and to curb the problem of
students arriving to class hungover. To answer your question, though, if that were to happen, I would have to foster
that role of a campus or society of judges. One in which people are responsible for one another. I don’t
think it’ll come to that, but if it did, we’d all have to be a bit more responsible for each
other.

Davidsonian: Could you explain to us why you left the Honor Council? You were elected your freshman year to serve
throughout your time at Davidson, but last year you left the Council to join the SGA. Why exactly did you
make this move?

Foxx: My reasoning was very simple, really. I wanted to become more involved in student life. I felt that the
Honor Council was more of a functional role, but, as a member of the SGA, I could move into a
more proactive role.

Davidsonian: Can the school be sure that your commitment to the SGA is solid? Having watched you before leave an
office once you saw that it was not proactive, can we be sure that you’ll give a year’s worth of
commitment?

Foxx: The obvious answer to that question is yes.

Davidsonian: What do you see as the causes of racial tension at Davidson, and what can the SGA do to
ease these constraints?

Foxx:Again, I’d like to point to my rather ambiguous speech. While it doesn’t hit on any one thing in particular,
it does mention some very broad-ranging ideas. One of those is that we have to take more individual responsibility. I
have witnessed a great deal of racial tension and conflict during my years at Davidson, and I think that in
the roles I’ve taken as a Freshman Senator, an Honor Council member, and as Junior Class President, I’ve looked to
a very broad-based constituency: one of white people and black people. Being black myself on a predominantly white campus is
a very complex role to play, but it’s one in which I have been able to reconcile those problems, and
I believe that the Davidson student body is intelligent enough to work the problems out.

SGA Vice-Presidential Candidates
Alden Smith

Election time again. It seems like we can’t go anywhere without being attacked by cheesy flyers. I hope we don’t
get so caught up in who has the cutest campaign slogans that we fail to become informed. Getting things done
on this campus doesn’t have to do with being cutesy. Your one vote for Vice-President of the SGA really is
important. So why vote for Alden Smith? Admittedly, there are three exceptional candidates for the position. All three of us
have occupied positions of leadership on this campus and we are all hard workers. My past experience on the SGA
is what I believe sets me apart from the other two candidates for Vice-President. In my two years as a
senator for the SGA, I have developed a good working relationship with the senate as a whole. I know exactly
what the commitment of being Vice-President involves. Even more importantly, I have worked with both Laura and Anthony on the
SGA and the Council on Minority Affairs. You can’t go wrong with any of the three candidates for President, and
I would work well with each of them.

1992-’93 promises many challenging issues. First, minus grades. You are going to hear a lot about this issue during the
next year. At least if I’m elected you are. My feeling is that minus grades need to go. I agree
that we need to assess both the positive and negative aspects of having minus grades, but still -- minus grades
need to go. I believe that there is enough concern among students to make a change. We just need the
right kind of leadership to organize our frustrations and push proposals on the administration. Be in Chambers Gallery on Wednesday
at 8:30 PM.

It is just as horrendous a crime to take away exam periods. Reducing the amount of exam periods threatens our
unique system of self-scheduled exams. A threat to self-scheduled exams is a threat to the effectiveness of our Honor Code.
Oh, and yes -- the Honor Council. I agree that the campus needs to be more aware of what’s going
on behind closed doors, but I don’t believe that a jury system is the answer. Some students are concerned that
they have no voice in who is going to be Chairperson of the Honor Council. I’m one of them. BUT,
to avoid a mere popularity contest, I believe that the members of the Honor Council should nominate several students among
them to be later voted upon by the student body.

The most threatening problem, it seems to me, is the easiest to take care of. In a word -- ignorance.
As a student body, we don’t know enough about the workings of the council. A mock trial at Freshman orientation
would be a good first step toward education.

We are about to hear a lot of talk about the alcohol policy. Believe it or not, some influential members
of our college community would like to see a dry campus. This scares me. Do I think there is a
problem with irresponsible drinking at Davidson? Yes. Do I think an alcohol-free campus is the answer? No. Unfortunately, many Davidson
students are going to drink excessively no matter what the alcohol policy says. I would much rather have my friends
stumbling back to their dorms than driving back drunk from Charlotte. I believe that keeping the current alcohol policy is
the safest choice, and the administration will not compromise our safety without a fight from the SGA.

Racial tension. It exists. We absolutely cannot tolerate some of the instances of these past few months. I am committed
to the task of changing some of the unfeeling and apathetic attitudes of many students toward minorities. As the only
member of the Council on Minority Affairs who is not a minority, I have learned that the problem rests with
those of us in the majority. We are simply not reaching out enough to those different from us. That some
students believe that F.L.A.G. should not receive money from the Activities Tax Fee embarrasses me. F.L.A.G. has just as much
right to receive money as any other SGA chartered organization. If you disagree, you can obtain a refund of the
percentage of your tuition going toward F.L.A.G. (about 2 to 4 dollars).

That’s about all out of me for right now. Please understand that you are making a difference if you vote
on Tuesday. Also be aware that you are making a difference if you don’t vote. If you are unfortunate enough
not to know one of the three candidates for Vice-President, I urge you again to vote for experience. I would
appreciate your vote on Tuesday.

Davidsonian: The Vice-President’s job description has that person operating independently from the President in a number of ways, committee oversight
being chief among them. But, if elected, you are still the VP and not the President. Should a conflict arise
between you and the President, will you defer to him or her or will you try to assert your own
position?

See "Smith" next page
