THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992 11

Men's Tennis Loses Three Straight.

By Brannon Buck

After seven straight wins, the Davidson men’s tennis season took a turn for the worse this past week. The team
lost all three matches and is now trying to get back on track.

Things were still very upbeat after last Saturday. Coach Frank took his team to Charleston Southern and came away with
his seventh victory in a row. The ‘Cats dominated at every position and eventually won the match 9-0. Charleston Southern,
with inferior talent, simply never had a chance.

Three days later the team encountered much stronger competition in a home match against Winthrop. Perhaps overconfident from their previous
wins, Davidson proceeded to lose 5-4 in an uninspired effort. Russell Briggs, Daniel Grinnan, and Dave Tonidandel kept the match
even after singles with three good wins, but Davidson could only manage a victory at number three doubles.

Briggs and Dale Voeks had a chance to pull out the victory at number two doubles, but lost 7-5, 7-6.
Coach Frank was not pleased with his team’s performance. “This is a match we should have won. We came out
a little flat, and they fought harder than us.”

Things did not improve the following day when Davidson met Furman. The bad weather which forced the match inside was
reflective of the outcome for the ‘Cats. Davidson lost 8-1, but there were several close matches.

Tonidandel played excellent in his 6-3, 6-3 victory at number six. But by far the most exciting match of the
day came at number two singles. David Jesperson played some of his very best tennis in a tough loss to
Ashley Gaines. Jesperson went up 5-2 in the third set, but Gaines was able to fight back to win 7-6,
4-6, 7-5.

Davidson struggled again on Saturday against a very talented Campbell team. The fall of communism has not been felt on
this team; all six players being from either Hungary or Czechoslovakia. The ‘Cats went up against players whose names included:
Lazzlo, Zoltan, Levante, Igor, and Dragan. Holt Vaughn played great and provided Davidson’s only victory of the day winning 7-5,
6-2. But the 8-1 loss was not totally disappointing for Davidson. The team played well, and there were several close
matches which the players feel they can improve on at the Big South tournament.

The team travels to UNCC on Thursday, and then returns home next Sunday in a match against Western Carolina. Frank
hopes that his team, with a 12-6 record, will rebound from these losses and make a strong showing before the
conference tournament in three weeks.

@

Lacrosse
Continued from page 12

Tucker and Treloar Tredennick make up the starting midfield. Liz Schaper, Allison Adams and Ashley Patterson anchor the defense, with
Mount starting in goal. Brown feels that an upcoming game with Guilford, a varsity Division III team, “will help us
tell where we’re going to go.” Seven games remain on the schedule, including home games with Wake Forest and UNCG
on April 11th and 12th.

Tennis
Continued from page 12

Davidson upped its conference record to 2-1 with an easy 8-1 victory. Ruth came back from the dead to win
at number four; down 5-2 in the third set, she swept the final five games to win 7-5.

In Greenville this weekend, the ‘Cats suffered a 9-0 loss to a talented Furman, but rebounded with a 6-3 win
over UNCC. Hess, Ruth and Wilcox were straight-set winners in singles. Barbara Grooms, at number six, stormed from behind to
take a 4-6, 6-2, 6-0 win. The doubles teams of Grooms/Ruth and Wilcox/Beahm earned victories to cement the win.

In preparation for the conference tournament, to be held April 16-19 at Davidson, Price’s emphasis in practice is on aggressiveness,
especially what she calls “return attack.” In her mind, the tournament title will likely be decided by bounces that could
benefit either side. “We feel like if our game keeps maturing, those bounces will go our way,” she says.

Recycle this —
