Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992 - Davidson

Arts By Max Hyde - According to the Charlotte Observer’s Dean Smith, “The Friends of the Arts at Davidson College
on Friday gave their friends in the area the season’s best recital. Again.” Smith refers to the masterful artistry of
internationally renowned pianist Stephen Prutsman, a 30-year-old who roused a large crowd in Love Auditorium on March 20. Prutsman, a
rising star on the concert circuit, packed his program with an impressive repertoire spanning from Bach to Schoenberg - three
hundred years of music history. Claudio Spies, Composer and Professor of Music at Princeton University, lectured on the Schoenberg dance
suite prior to its performance. Prutsman closed the first half of the concert with a brilliant personal arrangement of a
Wagner/Liszt selection. The second half of the concert featured his masterful artistry.

Oscar Picks: By Scott McLean Yes, folks, it’s that time of year again when Hollywood’s best and brightest gather for
the presentation of the annual Academy Awards. This year is historic because it is a year of many “firsts”: the
first Best Picture nomination for an animated film (“Beauty and the Beast”), the first time a mother and daughter have
been nominated in the same year (Diane Ladd and Laura Dern, both for “Rambling Rose”), and John Singleton (“Boyz N
the Hood”) is the youngest director ever to receive a Best Director nomination. However, despite all these “firsts”, I am
looking forward to the Barbara Walters special that precedes the show more than to the actual ceremony itself.

The Academy, unfortunately, has a history of giving awards to the most politically correct films of the year instead of
to those films which are truly deserving. I am still getting over the 1986 shutout of “The Color Purple,” my
favorite film of all time. I’m sorry, but no one can tell me that “Out of Africa” was a better
picture. And can anyone deny that Glenn Close should have walked away with a statuette for her role in “Dangerous
Liaisons” (another one of my favorites)? In any case, I’m going to run down my picks for this year’s awards.

By Tom Price This past Friday the Discovery Place in Charlotte began showing “Rolling Stones At The Max,” an 89-minute
concert video of the Rolling Stones’ “Steel Wheels” Tour. The film is the first concert movie to be shot in
OMNIMAX, a large film medium which projects an image five stories tall and wraps 180 degrees around the viewer. Andre
Picard, one of the film’s editors, was on hand in Charlotte at the sneak preview to answer questions and explain
the film’s development. Picard said the band was looking to do something different and then became intent on producing an
OMNIMAX after viewing a film done in this format. Picard called the film the “coming together of two worlds -
rock and roll and cinema.” The movie has been a critical and popular hit in the 19 giant-screen OMNIMAX theaters
which now offer the film. Charlotte is the most recent city to feature the film.The list of nominees in the
four big categories and offer my picks of the best performances from among this year’s contenders.

Best Actor: Warren Beatty, "Bugsy"; Robert De Niro, "Cape Fear"; Anthony Hopkins, "The Silence of the Lambs"; Nick Nolte, "The
Prince of Tides"; and Robin Williams, "The Fisher King." The two heavy favorites in this category are Hopkins and Nolte.
Each one has an equal chance of winning, but the Oscar should go to Anthony Hopkins. There are many actors
who could have equaled Nolte’s performance in "Tides," but Hopkins will forever own his role of Dr. Hannibal Lecter. When
you make a character your own as Hopkins did, that is the sign of a good actor, and only an
actor of Hopkins’ caliber could carry off such a performance.

Look For "Silence of the Lambs" to Sweep the Oscars.

To date, the picture has earned over $5,400,000 in box office receipts worldwide. As the show begins (actually the movie
is a compilation of three shows performed in London, Turin, and Berlin), the viewer is somewhat awestruck by the sheer
size of the screen. Although some in the audience complained of dizziness, most adjust to the nearly three-dimensional image quickly.
OMNIMAX actually makes you feel that you are at the show, and it is difficult to restrain yourself from joining
the crowd at Wembley Stadium in cheering after every song. The music itself doesn’t disappoint. Basically, the songs played amount
to a greatest hits collection plus “Sad, Sad, Sad” and “Rock and a Hard Place” from their latest "Steel Wheels"
album. From the opening “Start Me Up” to the finale of “Satisfaction,” the Stones show that they have yet to
lose their classic sound even as they play into their fifties. The OMNIMAX format allows the viewer to see every
expression on the band members’ faces, and it was clear that they still enjoyed their work. One highlight was the
huge inflatable dolls that the band used as props. Viewers are treated to a close-up of Mick Jagger’s flirtations with
his oversized, helium-holding “Honky Tonk Women.” Forty-four speakers, situated in all corners of Discovery Place’s planetarium/theater, blast out 16,000 watts
of power. The OMNIMAX format is an expensive and time-consuming way to make a movie. In order to produce the
large and clear images, the film is shot at a rapid pace of 300 feet per minute. Since the OMNIMAX
cameras eat up film at a great clip, they can only hold enough blank tape for seven minutes. In the
process of shooting the concert movie, the filmmakers shot over 100,000 feet of film.

Stones in OMNIMAX at Discovery Place Is Worth The $13 Ticket.

Prustman Enlightens Davidson With "Season's Best Recital"

Interpretation of Schumann’s Phantasie, Op. 17. Babs McKelway, the Executive Director of the Friends of the Arts, described Prutsman’s final
piece as being “marvelously romantic” and “very demanding.” Prutsman has the distinction of winning medals at both the 1990 Tchaikovsky
International Piano and Queen Elisabeth International competitions.
