NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Song Earns Secret Service Scrutiny

MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. (CPS) - A parody rap song titled “How I Killed George Bush” is on the charts with a bullet as far as the Secret Service is concerned. A local record store clerk told the Minnesota Daily that a Secret Service agent came into the store and asked him questions about the song, which is also the title of F-Kripz’s debut album. The Secret Service declined to comment. On Feb. 11, the newspaper quoted a University of Minnesota student who co-founded the rap group as saying the song was not meant to be a political statement. “We were trying to play off the themes in rap music,” Andrew Knighton said. “It’s sort of a mockery of the ambiguity and rhetoric that shrouds rap music. It was like a parody.” The lyrics include the lines, “To be all I can be/I’ll kill the p-r-e-z,/ cause the Sedition Act/ don’t mean a thing to me.” The album’s promotional fliers show the President’s picture underneath the words “President Bush Slain.”

68 Students Arrested in Fee Fight

BERKELEY, Calif. (CPS) - A day-long rally protesting a proposed 22 percent fee hike culminated in a student occupation of the University of California at Berkeley library. Police arrested 68 students on trespassing charges. Campus police in riot gear initially blocked students from entering the Moffitt Library, but shortly before 10 p.m. closing Jan. 31, 200 students were allowed to enter the building while 300 others remained outside in support, the University of California at Davis newspaper reported. “We're optimistic that if we can get all the campuses to take action and get the students mobilized, we stand a real good chance of getting some change,” Tim Yeung, a student senator at Berkeley, told the newspaper. “That’s our main goal right now.” Five students from the Berkeley campus held a five-day hunger strike to protest the fee increase, the newspaper reported.

Minnesota Student Faces Charges

MINNEAPOLIS (CPS) - Police say a University of Minnesota student who is facing robbery and burglary charges from an October crime may also be involved in a residential robbery that netted more than $1.2 million in jewelry and cash. Arthur Wendall Ness, a 24-year-old sociology student, was arrested Jan. 21 for his alleged involvement in an attempted robbery of an Edina, Minn., home on Oct. 30. The county prosecutor charged Ness with attempted aggravated robbery, burglary, and aggravated assault for allegedly threatening and struggling with a woman who lived in the home.

By Tamara-Kay Tibby

This week the Senate approved the Minus Grades Ad-Hoc Committee’s resolution that proposes a revised grade point scale. This GPA scale, authored by Senator B.J. Rudell, '95, would return a portion of the GPA points lost when the original system changed. The resolution calls for further study of the issue of minus grades, and it encourages faculty to adjust grading scales so that minus grades will not devalue work. It also requests that the administration adjust requirements for honor societies, study abroad programs, and scholarships because of a possible fall in GPAs.

The Senate also approved the Quiet Hours Report that was submitted last week. As a result of this report, the Residence Life Office will distribute a survey which will ask students if they want quiet dorms. Students are encouraged to complete these surveys, in that, because of faculty intervention in this issue, many senators are concerned that student opinions will not be expressed. To ensure that students' voices are heard, the SGA is encouraging people to contact their house or class senator or any member of the Faculty Executive (Student Government) News Committee (names are available in the President’s office).

The Athletic Council discussed future changes that involve lowering the P.E. requirement for Varsity athletes and anonymously surveying underclassmen athletes to evaluate the various athletic programs on campus. The Senate also discussed ways to promote understanding of differences. The F.L.A.G. forum on February 19 was commended as well as the efforts of The Harmony Committee, a faculty group that addresses campus tension. The Harmony Committee is considering requiring all entering freshmen to read "Waiting for the Barbarians," a book about the importance of respect for all people. This book would then be discussed by freshmen at orientation.

Finally, the Senate created an Ad-Hoc Committee to review the proposed alcohol policy with specific attention to student opinion, enforceability, and specific improvements. The committee will be co-chaired by Prem Manjooran, '92, and Chris Edmonston, '94. Twenty-three senators (including all of the house senators) volunteered to work on the committee.

Professor Speaks on Animal Rights

By Cindy Ebbs

Dr. Lou Pojman, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Mississippi, discussed the “Moral Status of Animals” last Wednesday in the Big Screen Room at the Union. Pojman based his discussion on seven theories of the moral status of animals. To begin, he posed the following question: “If it is self-evident that humans have worth, and there is no demarcation between humans and animals, what does that say about humans?” The first theories he discussed were the “No Status View,” based on Descartes' view that animals have no moral rights or moral status because they have no souls, and the “Minimal Status Theory,” based on the ideas of the 19th-century British philosopher William Whewell that we, as humans, have no obligation to enhance their pleasure. Pojman went on to discuss the “Indirect Obligation Theory,” the dominant theory in Western Philosophy, which states that while animals have no rights, we should treat them well because they are the property of others who do have moral rights.rights. The Book of Genesis and the theories of Immanuel Kant, he said, also support this claim. The fourth theory Pojman discussed was the “Modern Egalitarianism: The Equal Consideration Theory.” Jeremy Bentham, the “father of classical Utilitarianism,” first introduced the theory, and Peter Singer developed it further in his book, Animal Liberation. The question in this theory is not “can entities reason, as Kant suggests, but can they suffer,” he said. According to Pojman, “sentience (the idea that our current treatment of animals is an act of prejudice) becomes the hallmark of equality.”

“Weak Anthropocentrism: The Split Level Theory” distinguishes between trivial needs and important needs in that it says that humans are of more inherent worth than animals. Pojman explained that “an important human need can trump an important need of an animal, but a trivial human need cannot override a trivial animal need.” Radical Egalitarianism puts animals and humans at equal worth, he said. Supporters of this theory are philosopher Tom Regan and the animal rights group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). The last theory Pojman discussed was the Super-Egalitarianism Theory which holds that “all life is sacred.” He said that this theory “lends nicely to an environmental ethic.”

Pojman himself is a vegetarian because he would like to reduce the amount of unnecessary suffering which the animals go through in animal factories, for health reasons, and to prevent the loss of energy value in the food chain. He believes that it is our “general duty to not cause unnecessary harm” to animals.

SGA Phonathon Raises $168,000 For Davidson Annual Fund
By Tom Koonce

For the past two weeks over 500 Davidson students participated in the 1992 SGA Phonathon. Several members of each house, as well as many freshmen and independents, called alumni and students’ parents in an effort to raise money for the Davidson Annual Fund. The total number of pledges received was 1,850. These included people who said they would give but did not state a specific amount. The total amount of money raised was around $168,000. Rusk, Fiji, and Spencer called the first night of the Phonathon and solicited the most amount of money for any night at $32,755. SAE’s total of 367 pledges was the highest pledge total for the two weeks.

Although this year’s Phonathon did not generate as much money as in years past, it was more effective in reaching people who might not have given in a while to pledge money to Davidson. All of the best alumni prospects had already given in the fall in other fundraising efforts, so this year’s SGA Phonathon was more analogous to a clean-up campaign. Several local ‘celebrities’ (various faculty and administrators such as Dr. Kuykendall) helped each night to create excitement and enthusiasm among the students by handing out balloons and prizes. Eileen Keeley and Robbie Howell worked each night of the Phonathon for the Alumni House and the Annual Fund. The student co-chairs of the SGA Phonathon Committee, Bailey Foster, Eric Rosenbach, Steve Lilly, and Tom Koonce, also worked and helped to train callers each night of the Phonathon.

Alcohol Continued from page 1

penalties for those who violate this policy; and
8. To establish a “rush” program which will change the expectations of the freshman class about the appropriate ways to socialize at Davidson.

The report lists new regulations for the general college, residence halls, and Patterson Court. The changes for Patterson Court are the most stringent, but Dean Terry said they are necessary because of the current North Carolina law on alcohol consumption. He said, “The law is the fundamental problem. If we didn’t have the law we would not have the problem we have now and if we did have the problem we could solve it without having to take these kinds of measures.”

The proposed policy states that persons of legal drinking age may bring only one container of alcohol from the service area. It also recommends that the number of kegs be limited at parties and the alcohol service stop at 11:30 pm on weekdays and 1:30 am on weekends. The alcohol policy also contains an appendix concerning rush which lists regulations on when freshmen can go to court parties and the length of time that rushing will take place. In this proposed policy, freshmen may not attend ‘wet’ parties on the court during the first semester.

Dean Terry said that he believes students can come up with good ideas and suggestions to meet the objectives of the alcohol policy. He said, “Students can creatively come up with a sound policy if they are willing to spend the brain power to do it. That’s what I want them to do, but if they can’t do that then we’ll have to move in other directions.”

For more information on this proposed alcohol policy and additional comments from Dean Terry please turn to the Back Page Interview.

Cable-Wells Continued from page 1

development center, founded the Global Studies Center, taught history, and served as an associate dean of students. She has also worked in different capacities at both the University of Virginia and Rockford College.

Cable-Wells graduated with honors from Marietta College in Ohio. She also holds a master’s degree from the University of Vermont and a Ph.D. from the University of Virginia. A wife and mother, she has received numerous leadership and scholastic awards, and is a member of several community and professional organizations.

The new dean officially begins work on July 6, replacing Gromer Sutton, interim dean of admissions, who will return to teaching French. “There are very few people who get to teach those who they select,” he said. “I feel very lucky.” Until then, Cable-Wells will remain in Greensboro, visiting the campus occasionally.