THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992 : 9

Deep Thoughts...

Open Letter to the President-Elect

Editor's Note: The following is a copy of a letter Mr. Shealy mailed to the president.

Dear President-Elect Clinton,

I am a senior history major at Davidson College. It has been my pleasure watching your campaign progress to its
triumphant end. I supported you through the bad times when most everyone counted you out and took great pleasure in
casting my vote for you last Tuesday, knowing that you would most likely win. Now I await your inauguration with
nervous anticipation.

Regardless of whether my peers and I voted for you, we have no choice but to rally around you now
and lend our support to your administration. I hope you realize the gravity of your responsibility. In you we have
placed our trust and our hopes for the future. As it stands now, many of us do not foresee the
kind of prosperity that our parents have enjoyed. Our friends who have graduated before us report great difficulty in finding
jobs. This tiny community of ours has increasingly become the victim of violent crime. We are confused by the larger
world that is shifting so swiftly from the stability of the Cold War. In short, we view the future with
much trepidation.

Remember, as you begin your term, that a large portion of my generation is not in the streets doing drugs
and dodging bullets. We are just as concerned about finding a niche in this world, one in which we can
have some positive effect, as you were at our age. But we need your help. Your pre-election rhetoric tells me
that you do not share your predecessor’s feeling that stewardship can suffice in domestic matters. In the next four years,
however, you must not surrender to the frustration caused by a system that works against you.

From your campaign’s inception, I have admired how much emphasis you place on education. Despite differences in political affiliation, we
at Davidson all share this concern. Seeing how far your own education has taken you inspires those of us who
will soon face a shrinking job market. The American public, however, views education as a right without any attached responsibility
to strive for excellence. This kind of thinking pervades our beliefs about all aspects of our life as citizens of
this country. We see our government, our economy, and our security as rights for which others are to blame when
problems occur. Your task, then, is to remind us of our responsibilities and of the sacrifices we all must make
if our problems are to be solved.

Four years is an incredibly short period even to begin rectifying the ills that plague this country. Many of our
troubles have taken a decade of ill-wrought policy to become so severe. Others have resulted from forty-five years of staring
down the former Soviet Union. Consequently, you do not have a moment to lose.

Sincerely,
Kirby D. Shealy III

Clinton Victory Result of Anti-Bush Votes

Nest Continued from page 8

...same thing would’ve happened (except the Cold War would have continued). Well, now we do...

On the other hand, the conservative movement is alive and well. We are now rid of the George Bush wing
of the party. Although Bush is lost, the conservatives did fairly well. 60% of the voters did not vote for
Clinton, the Republican Party gained 9 seats in the U.S. House, and the party also gained control of the state
legislative chambers in Arizona, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Montana, Nevada, and Vermont. These facts point to an anti-Bush vote,
not a rejection of traditional Republican principles.

All of this is in the past, though. We must now pull together as a nation. In politics, all of
the candidates are theoretically after the same thing: the betterment of America. Now we must step aside and give the
Democrats a shot. As difficult as it is for me to swallow, the Republican Party will have very little to
say in the next four years. We must hope that things go well, but if they do not, we must
be ready to take on the problems that challenge us, because the country will be calling...

When the people of Iraq dance in the streets because of an American election result, something is wrong. My advice
to Governor Clinton is to ask for a meeting with Saddam Hussein, and when they get together, shoot him. See
if they dance in the streets after that one! Actually, they probably would, because Saddam would have to stop using
chemical weapons on them.

In all seriousness, the world is still dangerous, the issues are still important, and the passions continue to run high.
Don’t be surprised to see me yelling at someone in the hallway, because I’m a foot-stompin’ kind of guy when
it comes to politics. But let us all remember that we still are the greatest country the world has ever
seen, and we have a sense of humor. We are bold, brash, brave, and beautiful. We believe in excellence, and
having a damn good time. And why shouldn’t we? After all, we are Americans.

Our Heritage Should Be a Source of Pride

B&W Continued from page 8

German culture; I have a sense of “that’s where I’m from”.

Deidra: How do you act, according to your cultural pride?Scott: The way I act, like you said, depends on the
group I’m in. If it’s a group of people I know well, white or black, no problem. I can “be
myself” and feel proud about my heritage, while at the same time respecting the heritage of others. However, if I’m
in a group of mostly black people that I don’t know, sometimes I’m on my guard. At times like these,
I don’t think of my cultural heritage, but rather of my “white identity.” It’s an identity I don’t necessarily accept,
but one that is inevitable. Rather than feel pride, sometimes I don’t know how to act.

Deidra: The important thing about hanging with people who you don’t normally hang with is to be yourself and let
the chips fall where they may. We think it’s interesting that we both spoke of (racial or cultural) pride. As
Spike Lee said, pro-black does not equal anti-white; we’d like to add that pride in your white heritage does not
amount to anti-black feelings. Try to accept people for what and who they are. Multiculturalism could be one of our
biggest assets if we would celebrate it instead of ignoring it.

Honor Continued from page 7

truth. It is not a set of standards for “campus use only.” Disband the Honor Code. It may become an
image of Honor, not real Honor. Let Honor remain an absolute standard, not a relative truth. Davidson may be worse
with the change. However, Honor will not be weakened, molested, and left behind at the altar of graduation as if
it had been a one-night stand in the student’s life with no lasting relationship. Honor’s integrity would remain. If you
keep your Honor, let it be your way of life. Give it full access to your lives. Disband the System
for the sake of Honor.

Sincerely,
Alva W. Whitehead, M.D.
Chairman, Honor Court, 1966-1967

Koonce Continued from page 8

choose Faircloth, since the senator is 75 and had heart surgery only weeks before the election. A decision based on
this fact makes relatively no sense. Why take a chance on a candidate who might not even know how he
feels about specific issues until Jesse and his club tell him what position to take? Sanford might be old, but
his lifelong experience as a public servant should more than offset any negatives about his age. Sanford might very well
have retired before the end of six more years as a senator, but that would have given the state a
chance to put a much more credible candidate in office than Faircloth. By voting for the club’s candidate, we’re stuck
with this unknown until 1998.

The Congressional Club propped Faircloth up by running a campaign that concentrated solely on distorting Sanford’s record through negative ads,
such as one commercial that took one of the senator’s statements totally out of context. The club basically told North
Carolinians why not to vote for Sanford instead of telling them why to vote for Faircloth. The majority of North
Carolinians fell for this kind of negative backwards campaigning two years ago, and they fell victim to the club and
its fear tactics once again. North Carolina has unfortunately been an example to the rest of the country that this
kind of campaign is effective. A vote for Faircloth signified an endorsement for this kind of activity to continue.

An argument presented by Governor Jim Martin last week as to why Faircloth should be our senator was that by
electing Faircloth, North Carolina’s two senators wouldn’t cancel each other out with their votes, as happened when both Sanford and
Helms were in office together. This statement reiterates the idea that Faircloth won’t think on his own, but will be
completely controlled by Helms and his conservative PAC. North Carolinians did elect the right person to be governor, but they
failed to elect the best senatorial candidate and supported, albeit barely, the President in his unsuccessful reelection bid. Negative politics
work here, and the people of this state have to show candidates and their campaigns otherwise before we can return
to positive hopeful races. Unfortunately, we won’t have another chance to reject such negative campaigns until 1996. Hopefully by then
we will have learned our lesson.

Pithy Continued from page 8

Of course, sunrises are beautiful. (I’ve seen them on TV). But that extra five or six hours of sleep are
even better. Besides, the sun does a repeat performance every evening. To my mind, sunrises and sunsets are equally aesthetically
pleasing. The sun’s not going to refuse to rise just because I’m not there to witness its glory. And if
it does, the gig’s pretty much up, isn’t it?

Unfortunately, people with jobs have come up with this 9-to-5 scam. And look at ‘em. They’re either grouchy zombies or
wired up on their eighth cup of coffee. It’s a conspiracy. Those same guys who tried to trick us with
the stopped clocks are also in charge of this “fall back” scam. (By the way, have you noticed? They removed
the clock around the corner from Dean Terry’s. Another Davidson tradition down the toilet.) The powers-that-be figure, if it’s dark,
we’ll have to work. Joke’s on them. If it’s dark, we’ll drink. Rebel with me! Fall forward! And while we’re
at it, let’s sleep till noon.

Yearbook pictures will be taken again on Dec. 1 & 2 from 8 until 5 in the Union.
