THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

15

Men's Lacrosse Pounds ASU, Edges UNC-Greensboro

By Phil Degnan

On February 29, the Davidson Men’s Lacrosse Team opened its ambitious ten-game season with an 8-0 win over Appalachian State. The Wildcats’ aggressive defense created numerous unsettled situations that the offense was able to capitalize on. Fierce hits and stick checks kept the Mountaineer offense off-balance for the majority of the game, but the few times they were able to beat the defense of Tom Hunter, Jim Livingston, Jay Spiegel, Braulio Lopez, and Eric Rosenbach and get a shot on goal, first-year goalie Cordell Jones could not be beaten.

The midfield, along with contributing to the tenacious defense, sparked the offense with goals by co-captain “Mean” Dean Vanderwarker, Wells Campbell, and Stephen Bell. The remainder of the Wildcats’ goals were scored by the attack. Freshman standouts Smith Maddrey and Todd Cabell had one and two goals, respectively, while senior co-captain Phil Degnan rounded out the total with two goals.

The second game of the weekend proved to be a tougher contest. UNC-Greensboro matched the ‘Cats’ tough defense, but could not stop freshman Todd Cabell, who paced Davidson with three goals. Cabell’s offensive power and some tough saves by Cordell Jones kept the Wildcats even with Greensboro through regulation, which ended in a 3-3 tie.

Davidson came out for the five-minute sudden-death overtime period confident that the defense would continue their excellent play. True to form, the defense picked apart Greensboro’s first offensive threat and sent the ball downfield to the offense. Wells Campbell carried the ball over midfield and threaded a perfect pass between two defenders to Vanderwarker in front of the goal. “The New Canaan Flash” then fired a shot, estimated at 110 mph, to the bottom right-hand corner of the goal to give the ‘Cats a 4-3 win.

The men’s lacrosse team would like to thank all of our fans who came to see Sunday’s game and to remind everyone that there will be more home games throughout the spring.

Men's Tennis Goes Unbeaten During Spring Break

By Brannon Buck

Davidson men’s tennis team increased its record to 10-3 by defeating The University of the South, Radford, Coastal Carolina, and Washington and Lee during their annual spring break matches. In the four straight victories, singles play remained stellar while the doubles improved tremendously.

In the first match of the break, Davidson defeated The University of the South 9-0 by dominating play throughout the line-up. The next day however, Coach Frank and his team faced much tougher competition in Big South Conference foe Radford. The match was tied after singles play with victories for Davidson by David Jesperson, Daniel Grinnan, and Dave Tonidandel. The ‘Cats sealed the victory 6-3 by winning all three doubles matches in impressive fashion.

The team faced even tougher competition on Saturday, but came away with another conference win over Coastal Carolina. Just as the day before, the singles ended in a 3-3 tie after Russell Briggs, Grinnan, and Tonidandel won tight matches. Davidson’s doubles teams continued their improved play and squeaked out a 5-4 decision. John Beyer and Holt Vaughan won at the number one position, while Chris Parker and Albie Varoski were victorious at number three doubles. The last match of the break ended in an 8-1 victory over Washington and Lee where the ‘Cats dominated everywhere but at number one singles.

The ‘Cats played Appalachian State last Friday. At the number one position, Varoski faced his first American opponent since the fall season and quickly dispatched him, 6-4, 6-3. The rest of the team won as well and sealed the victory after singles. With the outcome already decided, Frank started three new doubles teams which won all their matches.

The men’s team now seems poised for another strong showing at the Big South Conference Tournament to be held at Davidson April 16-18. The ‘Cats stand at 3-0 in the conference, having already faced some of its stronger teams, but Coach Frank warns that Campbell will probably be the toughest test for his players. Frank expresses great optimism about his team’s 10-3 record, with losses coming only at the hands of South Carolina, Wake Forest, and Virginia. “I have been very pleased with the team’s performance up to this point. I think that the hours of weight lifting and running have paid off.” Frank also likes the improvement he sees in the doubles play. “We really worked hard on the doubles this spring, and now I’m seeing positive results. The singles play has remained strong, but the doubles really pulled us through this last week. All three teams are beginning to tap into their potential.”

The team’s singles play should not be overlooked. All the players have strong records, but the depth of the team is its real strength. Grinnan, at number five, and Tonidandel, at number six, both have 18-3 records.

The team has two home matches next week against Winthrop on Tuesday and Campbell on Saturday. The players will have to provide more solid play to beat these conference opponents.

Photo by Casey Rogers:

Senior Jay Jesperson gets ready to ace his East Carolina opponent in a match at Davidson over Spring Break.

Recycle this Davidsonian

LOCATED

896-7756

LAKE NORMAN

18600 Statesville Road, Cornelius, NC

Foreign & Domestic Repairs & Painting

"THE BEST”

If you are looking for outstanding quality and service, the next time you need repairs, ask for LAKE NORMAN PAINT & BODY

DAN TRITT OWNER