THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

SAE Continued from page 1

Lilly stated that the police are investigating this incident and particular members of his house have all made statements as to what they saw that night. The individual who caused the damage to this WFU student’s eye is not known. Lilly said it is “impossible for us to say or actually determine who hit him.”

Dean Terry believes that somebody is being incomplete in their statements. Terry said, “Somebody knows something that they’re not saying.” He added that he hopes the individuals responsible will eventually decide that it is in their best interest to come forward and admit their guilt.

Another incident brought up in Miller’s letter involves an individual making harassing phone calls to a black student on campus. This person turned himself in to Dean Terry and this phone call harassment is being handled as a violation of the Code of Responsibility. Lilly refused to comment on this incident on the grounds that it would make his comments a house issue while the action taken was by an individual.

The group of students who organized the Commons demonstration decided to do so after a meeting of the EU Society last Wednesday night. Leigh McKeever said, “One of the reasons we did this was for safety, every student should be informed.” The group put up flyers around campus that stated: “There are problems of violence and harassment on (the) Davidson campus!... Concerned? Then talk to the Trustees today 12 noon in front of the Commons.” The flyer also listed four incidents of such violence.

McKeever said, “It’s a pattern, not to attack SAE, there’s a problem with fraternities in general. They aren’t self-selective, they’re dangerous because they breed an atmosphere conducive to violence and harassment.” McKeever went on to acknowledge that the problems were not just at Davidson but were nationwide. She said the group was “trying to enlighten the Trustees to the realities of Davidson.” She emphasized again that the flyer and demonstration were “never meant to be an attack on SAE.”

The Patterson Court Council is also investigating SAE and allegations that the fraternity started their pledge activities a week too early. The PCC asked to be arbiter of all of the issues dealing with pledging. David Wright, chairman of the PCC, said that this and the other issues involving SAE were discussed last Thursday at a PCC meeting and will be discussed at future meetings. Last Thursday they talked about the other houses’ viewpoints of the allegations. The PCC took no formal action or made any recommendations based on the letter from A.T. Miller. Wright also said that, aside from Rusk, no other Patterson Court houses have taken action on this matter. Wright said, “The other houses want to sit back and see which allegations are true and false.”

The committee organized to handle all of these allegations will examine all of Patterson Court and not just SAE. Lilly said, “Our house is looking forward to working with this committee. We feel we will be exonerated on many of the allegations made toward us.” Lilly also said that he had spoken to Dean Terry and the Trustees expressing his approval of the establishment of this committee.

Terry said, “One of the advantages is that the committee will be as unbiased as possible so that all parties will be satisfied with their objectivity and conclusions.” When asked if his house might take any action against Miller because of the inaccuracies of the letter, Lilly...said, “In an effort to deal with all explanations we are exploring all possible options.” On Friday, Miller sent out a second letter to the same people who received his first statements. In this second letter, Miller admits that many of the allegations were inaccurate, but he also states that “These incidents remain serious and disturbing, as well as violent and dangerous.” The letter is not an apology but is an effort to clear up some of the inaccuracies. Miller also said in this letter, “I feel that continued statements on these issues on my part is pointless... Such incidents are not limited to particular individuals, houses, groups, or campuses; but the effort for change and resolution relies on the efforts within each individual, house, group, and campus.” He added, “I assume we all hope that the pattern, the procedures, the confidence, and the community can all be improved.”

When asked if he had considered that sanctions might be taken against him by the administration because of inaccuracies in the first letter, Miller said that he had no idea what such sanctions might be and nobody had mentioned anything to him about anything of this nature. He also said that he believed there were two different codes of ethics, one for faculty and one for students.

SAE has suspended their pledge activities for the present. They were also asked by Terry not to have parties this past weekend. Terry said, “We’re going to move on these issues with dispatch, with fairness and out of this can come a very positive rededication of the campus to live in a civil community that is both inclusive and sympathetic to feelings of other people.”

Two Davidson Professors Receive Grants
By Christopher Edwards

Two Davidson professors, Alfred Mele and Ronald Brisbois, have received grants to do in-depth work in their respective fields. Mele, a professor of philosophy who is planning to spend next year on sabbatical, received a National Endowment for the Humanities grant to write a book, tentatively entitled Autonomous Agents: From Self-Control to Autonomy. According to Mele, the book will deal with “autonomous persons (who) chart their own course (and) don’t just accept the values of others, but... shape, criticize and define the values in their lives.” Mele wants “to analyze what these people are like and where they derive their drive and ability.” In the book, he will argue that “autonomy lies at the heart of our self-conception,” thus giving the book a “humanistic significance.”

Ronald Brisbois has received an $18,000 grant from the American Chemical Society/Petroleum Research Fund for a two-year study focusing on orthoparacyclophane molecules. A new state-of-the-art aromatic annulation method will allow Dr. Brisbois to synthesize the relatively unknown molecules for study. Two Davidson chemistry majors will assist Brisbois with the project. Most of their work will be done this summer, and the three will travel to an American Chemical Society national meeting.

OUTDOORS EXC
adie Lal

Camping Equipment & Clothing
10% Off with Davidson ID through Feb.*
MERRELL and TEVA now in stock
Don't Forget Limited Stock in Fall / Winter Closeout!
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.
*Does Not Include Sale Merchandise

Tom Price assisted with the research of this article.

Write For News. Contact Kevin Miller -6372

ELECTION SIGN-UPS will be held for Reach Out President, Reach Out Vice President, Honor Council, Student Conduct Council, CCRL, Review Board
Monday, February 10 - Thursday, February 13 at 5:00 pm in the Dean of Students Office.