THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

Students Protest ROTC Policy

WASHINGTON (CPS) - The United States Student Association delivered to President Bush’s campaign headquarters ballots from college students in 48
states protesting the ROTC’s ban on gay and lesbian cadets. Mock ballots were distributed to more than 100 campuses nationwide,
and students were asked to return them to the USSA office. Glenn Magpantay, co-chairman of USSA’s Lesbian-Gay-Bisexual Student Caucus, said
several boxes full of protest ballots were delivered March 9 to Bush’s campaign office. The exact count was uncertain, but
Magpantay said there were thousands of ballots. “Today the President will hear from the nation’s students,” Magpantay said. “The ball
is in his court. He can change the policy or face the wrath of students.”

The Department of Defense bars lesbians, gays, and bisexuals from military service, and the campuses must abide by that policy.
Yet, many universities have policies forbidding discrimination on the basis of race, gender, ethnic background, or sexual orientation. The conflicting
principles have prompted some universities to kick ROTC programs off campus. Many colleges have urged the Department of Defense to
change the policy.

Drinking Bout Hospitalizes Pledge

Bloomington, Ind. (CPS) - Indiana University and the national chapter of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity are investigating an alleged hazing
incident that left a pledge hospitalized with a .40 blood alcohol content. As a result of the Jan. 28 drinking
binge, the fraternity and 26 members have been charged with hazing, endangering the life of a student, giving false information
to university officials.

Congressman Rose Honored By Davidson For Lifetime Achievements

By Tom Koonce

In a time when the House of Representatives is experiencing almost daily negative press and increased public criticism for problems
such as the recent controversy involving its bank and post office, Congressman Charles G. Rose, a 1961 Davidson College graduate,
will be honored by his alma mater for his exemplary accomplishments in the twenty years he has served as a
member of Congress. Rose’s numerous achievements as a congressman set a fine example of the appropriate way for an elected
official to administer his duties while in office.

Rose has served as the Representative from North Carolina’s Seventh District since 1972. He will return to Davidson on Monday
to receive the Dean Rusk Program Award for Citizen Service. This presentation ceremony and a speech by Rose entitled “The
Role of NATO in the New World Order” will be held at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Upon graduation from Davidson, Rose attended law school at UNC-Chapel Hill and then entered into practice in Raleigh with Senator
Terry Sanford. He also served as chief district court prosecutor for the 12th judicial district in his hometown of Fayetteville,
NC.

The award that Rose will receive on Monday recognizes outstanding accomplishment in the international area. Rose was recently elected to
the position of president of the North Atlantic Assembly, a parliamentary group of legislators from NATO countries. According to Rose,
recently “the North Atlantic Assembly has turned its efforts toward helping the new parliaments in eastern and central European countries.
We’ve made the parliamentarians from these countries associate members of the North Atlantic Assembly to try and help them learn
how to set up their parliaments and especially how to deal with the military establishment from a civilian point of
view.”

According to the Charlotte Observer, Rose “carries more clout than any other N.C. lawmaker.” Rose serves as chairman of the
House Administration Committee, a position he described as “the city-manager’s office of Congress.” This committee manages the inner functions of
the House, dealing with such things as campaign finance reform. As a result of holding this post, he will also
head up a task force to investigate problems with the House post office.

Rose is also chairman of the agriculture committee’s subcommittee on tobacco and peanuts and serves on the subcommittee on cotton,
rice and sugar and the subcommittee on livestock, dairy and poultry. He was also the primary person involved in getting
the House of Representatives computerized and was founder of the policy group on information and computers of the committee on
House administration.

For more information on Congressman Rose please turn to the Back Page Interview.

Medical Humanities Speaker, Sweetser, Discusses Religion, Medicine in Pakistan

By Jeff Oller

On Tuesday, March 18, Dr. Anne Sweetser spoke about healing power in Pakistan in the continuing medical humanities series. Sweetser
is a professor at Connecticut College and a Harvard scholar of anthropology and Middle Eastern studies who has lived among
the Islamic in the mountainous region of northern Pakistan. She introduced the concept of a plural medical system. The idea
that people have three main methods of how to treat illnesses, diseases, and injuries. The first and earliest method is
healing by magic. The second is religious healing. This is the basic healing method in the holistic Pakistani Islamic culture.
Pakistanis believe in religious healing, religious health, and the idea that healing power is a moral and religious force. The
third method involves the usage of scientific medicine. Western medicine, as it is called, is held as highly suspect and
is used in conjunction with religious healing in a plural medical system. Western medicine is often misunderstood and underestimated as
strong herbs. Sweetser defined and expressed interest in the necessity of explanatory models; models that explain the mind. For the
Islamic inThis instance, the primary explanatory model revolved around religion. Sweetser stated, “Religion helps them make choices concerning other medicine.”
Sweetser extended her lecture to the importance of health and cleanliness in Islamic society. In Islamic society, purity is seen
as half of the faith. According to Sweetser, “All knowledge that is worthwhile to the follower of Islam is believed
to come from Allah.” Health is seen as the most precious of treasures given by Allah. Illness is said to
be sent by Allah to purify. Anyone that has suffered has justified his entrance into paradise. Nursing the sick is
seen as a religious duty. A nurse’s responsibility in an Islamic society involves praying for the afflicted as well as
feeding and caring for the afflicted. A nurse in Islamic society is seen as blessed.

Initially, Pakistanis practiced prophetic medicine. No excess of any pleasures, watch diet, take honey every once in a while to
purify the body, and bloodletting were standard allowed rules. Branding and cauterization were two methods disallowed. Women are viewed as
unclean in Islamic society. The touch of a woman, her menstrual fluid, and the urine of a baby girl require
immediate ablutions, while the urine of a baby boy, for instance, requires only a sprinkling of holy water. Sweetser maintained
that she herself was viewed with suspicion by the society that she chose to live with. In fact, women were
initially afraid to speak to her until allowed by their husbands. She was seen as a symbol of the Western
culture that the Islamic view as indecent. She had to prove herself moral and was actually seen, after a time,
with a certain amount of religious status. Sweetser concluded her speech by asserting her continuing interest in the graduation of
Islamic religious healing to modern scientific methods.

Dollar Gift From Maddrey Family
By Chris Wells

E. Erwin Maddrey II, a current member of the college’s Board of Trustees, and his wife, Nancy, pledged 1 million
dollars to fund a named professorship at Davidson. In response to the gift, Davidson President John Kuykendall said, “The entire
Davidson family appreciates the Maddreys' strong commitment of time and resources to Davidson. The college prides itself on its outstanding
faculty, and the Maddreys' gift will enable us to continue our tradition of excellence in teaching.” With Maddrey’s commitment, Davidson
has reached the 92 million dollar mark in its five-year, 150 million dollar National Campaign for Davidson. The campaign is
an attempt to increase endowment for faculty positions, student scholarships, academic resources, capital improvements, and annual operating expenses.

As a 1963 graduate of Davidson, Maddrey said, “Our gift represents our commitment to Davidson and our belief that it
is the responsibility of all alumni to support their alma mater to the best of their ability during the National
Campaign.” Robert Williams, Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty, added, “We are absolutely delighted with the gift
because endowed faculty positions are at the heart of the plan for Davidson.” Maddrey, who earned an MBA from UNC-Chapel
Hill, co-founded Delta Woodside Industries Inc. in 1983. Delta Woodside manufactures and sells textile fabrics and apparel along with distributing
office supplies and equipment. Maddrey also serves as a trustee of the South Carolina Foundation of Independent Colleges, as a
director of United Carolina Bank of South Carolina, and as a director of Blue Cross/Blue Shield.

Lake Campus Receives Improvements
By Jeff George

While students and teachers are hard at work in the classrooms, the people who maintain the lake campus have been
working to make it a more attractive place for students and faculty alike. “Basically, we just wanted to make the
place more aesthetically pleasing, better to look at when you come down to the lake,” said Lee Jones, one of
the caretakers. “You'd really have to come out and see it to appreciate everything we’ve done.” The changes include cleaning
of the barbecue grills and removal of rocks from the beach, repairing or replacing of signs, moving canoes and boats
to a more accessible location, and adding a series of nature and walking trails around the campus. Other projects, which
will extend into the summer, will add sand volleyball courts and a complete frisbee-golf course to the list of renovations.

Jones attributes this surge of restoration in part to an increase in the enrollment in water-sport classes offered by the
school. Also, many people in the Davidson community feel that the lake campus should be enjoyed by more, especially members
of the faculty and staff. Jones views the campus as “a release, a place where you can go to study,
or just sit back and unwind.” In addition to the offerings for the College, there will be a series of
2-week summer camps at the lake this year for rising 5th through 9th grade students. For $65 per week, children
can come and learn various water sports hands-on. The camps will be supervised by a 14-person staff that will be
open to Davidson students as well as other summer help. Applications can be obtained from Ron Morrow in the Aquatics
Department or Lee Jones at the lake campus.

Above all, the lake campus is a place where all members of the Davidson community can go to have fun.
Likewise, the effort to upgrade the lake campus’ facilities has been a community-wide one, with members of the Athletic Department
and the grounds-keeping staff helping out. According to Jones, the best thing about the new changes is that “this is
like the Davidson Family pitching together to make the ‘other side’ of the campus look better.”

Recycle This Issue
