6 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

Community Mourns Loss

Last Tuesday, the Davidson College community lost an important member with the passing of Mary Beaty. Beaty, who Dr. Leland
Park described as “part of the very fabric of this college and this town,” served the community not only as
the assistant director of the library, but also as the chronicler of Davidson College and town history. At her retirement
last May, Park, the Library Director, honored Beaty with a faculty resolution, part of which is reprinted below. This community
will greatly miss the work and caring nature of Dr. Beaty.

“Because you have followed Seneca’s bidding that ‘I am glad to learn in order that I may teach,’ and
Because you have so expertly taught us in the library classroom as well as in the scheduled classroom, and
Because you have lovingly chronicled our corporate lives in the town and gown, inspiring both our appreciation for things past
and our resolve for things to come, and
Because you have shown kindness and patience as well as instruction to the seeker, become an example to others who
have burdens to carry, and given exquisite meaning to the term ‘A Daughter of Davidson,’ we, the Faculty of Davidson
College, do now proclaim in your own native tongue, ‘Ave Maria,’ Hail Mary!”

Fan Behavior Was Embarrassing

Last Saturday the Davidson soccer team visited Wake Forest to play the sixth-ranked Demon Deacons. Even though our Wildcats fell
short of upsetting Wake, Davidson was represented well by the team’s hustle and skill. Unfortunately, certain Davidson soccer fans did
a much poorer job of representing our school.

As members of any athletic team will attest, fan support can provide a huge boost. And while it was wonderful
to hear more cheers for Davidson than for the home team, a distinction needs to be made concerning appropriate fan
behavior. It is sad that certain Davidson students would have to be told how to cheer, but their behavior on
Saturday was, as George Bush would say, “beyond the pale.” The language and the terms used aren’t necessarily appropriate anywhere,
but to use them publicly in the presence of parents and other supporters was nothing short of vulgar. At a
time when fans should have been proud to be a Davidson student, many people were spending their time trying to
apologize for their classmates’ behavior. These fans did a disservice to anyone who is connected with the Davidson College community.
Unfortunately, many people now have an image of Davidson which is tarnished by the unsportsmanlike abuses hurled by a handful
of inebriated underclassmen.

Support for soccer and other Davidson athletics is laudable, but in our rush to support our classmates, let’s not forget
that our actions, just like the athletes’, represent the school. The kind of cheering heard on Saturday doesn’t want to
be heard by anyone, most of all the athletes. Our teams give us a lot to be proud of and
we ought to support them in a positive manner.

Letters

Liberal Bias Strikes Again

To the Editor,

Over and above my incredulity at the lack of equal time for political discussion in the opinions section of The
Davidsonian issue number 1, I am aghast at the ignorant and sensationalist garbage put forth by Mr. Kirtley as “REASON.”

#10) The President of The United States holds NO power to overturn Supreme Court decisions. Besides, if only “20 [to]
35 percent of Americans (misogynistic fundamentalists) believe” that overturning Roe v. Wade “is a good thing,” pro-abortionists will have no
trouble passing their legislation in the Congress if “Roe” is nullified.

#9) Webster’s New Collegiate Dictionary defines Fascism as: “a political philosophy, movement or regime... that exalts nation and race above
the individual and thatStands for a centralized autocratic government headed by a dictatorial leader, severe economic and social regimentation, and
forcible suppression of opposition.” Dan Quayle. A dictator? Centralized government? (Clinton and health care), economic and social regimentation? (Democrats and
taxes, welfare). Sounds more like the Democrats to me. If it wasn’t for Quayle on the Senate Defense Committee we
wouldn’t have the “badly bungled NASA experiment” Patriot Missile, which saved many Israeli, Saudi, French, British, Egyptian, and American lives,
including newspaper reporters!

#8) Let me tell you about unfair. Ten years after nothing, Anita Hill is supported by Democrats to lie in
front of a Senate Judiciary Committee for political purposes. Now she is making $10,000 a pop on the lecture circuit.
Remember what happened to Supreme Court nominee Ginsburg? Where’s the magnifying glass on Al Gore’s marijuana history; I won’t hold
my breath. Willie Horton was a convicted felon who, while on furlough personally signed for by Gov. Dukakis, committed rape,
robbery, assault with a deadly weapon, and murder; and that’s leaving out the graphic details of torture and witnesses.

#7) The nuclear threat is over? Consider a scenario put forth by syndicated columnist Lars-Erik Nelson (Washington bureau chief of
the New York Daily News), in which he traces the sale of leftover nuclear warheads to dictators such as Saddam
Hussein from “newly independent Soviet Central Asian republic(s)” struggling to survive. U.S. history proves the folly of hasty post-war cutbacks
in defense.

#5) Dan Rather is a crybaby who once refused to report the news because a football game preempted eight minutes
of his broadcast.

#4) How can any president be held responsible for mind reading a maniac who doesn’t know the difference between a
region of Kuwait and the entire country.

#2) The President of the United States has no power to levy taxes or borrow monies on behalf of the
federal government; it is purely a legislative duty. You are wrong in saying that the President is a hypocrite. Fact:
over 50 percent of the federal budget is spoken for in the form of entitlements and mandatory spending before the
budget proposal process even begins. How do you suggest a president balance the budget when he can trim less than
half of it? With these constraints, the President’s current budget proposal is still 40 to 50 billion dollars less than
Congress’s. Furthermore, Bush’s balanced budget amendment also calls for spending caps and bureaucratic reduction. Tell me why, in a recession
in which some employees have willingly taken pay cuts to keep their jobs, Congress has voted itself pay raises? And
tell me why tax cuts will inflate the deficit. The capital gains tax cut is a

* See "Liberal" on page 7

McMillen Looks For Awareness in Davidsonian

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editor:

The Davidsonian’s first editorial saddened me. With our facing numerous crises—starvation and death in Somalia, civil war in Yugoslavia, devastation
from Hurricane Andrew, an important Presidential race this November, and myriad others—you focused on the problems of the college’s new
alcohol policy. Many Davidson students exhibit deep concern about the larger world beyond this institution. I would hope that in
future issues you will address subjects that indicate that we, as well-educated individuals, are sensitive to more critical problems than
those that affect Patterson Court.

Sincerely,
Sally McMillen
Associate Professor of History

Roberts Questions Kirtley

To the Editor,

Julian Kirtley’s “Top Ten Reasons Not to Vote for Bush” was thought-provoking. After reading it I couldn’t decide which was
more of a cliché—the argument or the “Lettermanesque” form he put them in.

Sincerely,
Harrison Roberts
