20 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW
With General G. G. Govan, Former Military Attache to Moscow
By John Patton & David Smyth

General Govan, '64, former military attache to Moscow, visited Davidson last semester and John Patton caught up with him long
enough for the following interview.

Davidsonian: Could you give us a brief synopsis of your career for those who might not know your background?

Govan: I graduated in '64 and went directly into the Army and served an initial tour with the Corps of
Engineers as a combat arms detailer. Then I got into military intelligence and from that into the Soviet foreign area
officer program. The Army has a program allowing specialization in various geographic areas, one of which is the Soviet Union/East
Europe. I started that training in 1970 with language training and received a graduate degree in what is in essence
Soviet studies from the University of Virginia. And then I spent two years at the Army Russian Institute in Germany
which at that time was a substitute for in-country residence either as a traveler or a student. Since completing the
program I've spent all of my time associated with Soviet things in one form or another. I've had two tours
with the U.S. military liaison mission in Potsdam and two tours in Moscow with the Defense attache office. So I
guess those are the most important highlights.

Davidsonian: I understand now from what John Howell has told me that you're going to be working for the CIA.

Govan: I'm working in the CIA building but not with the CIA. The director of the Central Intelligence Agency has
two hats. In one he is director of the CIA but he also has a higher hat. He is the
President's intelligence officer and as such he has responsibility for coordination of the intelligence efforts of all agencies, the CIA
plus those of the Department of Defense and other governmental agencies. And I am one of several military officers under
the director in his DCI, Director of Central Intelligence, hat and will be working in an organization called the National
Intelligence Council which is concerned with the intel output side of the DCI's coordination effort. There is also a thing
called the intelligence community staff which is concerned with the intel input side, the budget, manpower and other resources that
go into the collection of intelligence. My concern in working for Mr. Gates will be in his hat as DCI
on the output side, the intelligence product or the estimate.

Davidsonian: That leads into my next question about intelligence and its future. What are our threats and what do they
hold for the future of the intelligence community - including the CIA, the DIA and all the others?

Govan: With the Soviet threat gone the question becomes, "What do you do now?" Now that we've won what do
we demobilize? That was the answer in the past always. Once you were through with a conflict that you had
built up for then you demobilize after that conflict. The Cold War over the last forty some-odd years was in
many ways an intelligence struggle. One of the main components of this war that thankfully never actually came to the
deployment of armaments was that it was fought by a lot of people like me who gained some sort of
counters in this strange looking glass war by knowing something about the other side that the other side didn't want
known. And that became one of the mechanisms for keeping score in this war. Do we want to demobilize now
that the "enemy" is gone? One of the things that the Soviet Union as a threat did was it gave
logic and consistency and structure to what we in this country did. All other problems were in many ways subsumed
by the Soviet problem. So if we were confronted with a civil war in country X we almost inevitably saw
it in terms of an East/West struggle for power in X rather than on the merits of the case. It
wasn't completely fatuous that we came up with this East/West struggle over X but certainly we tended to see everything
in terms of the great rivalry. Containment is over; we have to look beyond that. The military now is reducing.
We engineered a proposal for a cut in the military to what is called a base force largely as a
result of what took place in Eastern Europe in 1989. Fundamental changes in the threat of war in central Europe
and the likelihood of war involving central strategic nuclear systems between the Soviet Union and the U.S. As a result
of those fundamental changes the Defense Department engineered a proposed base force that was a significant reduction of over twenty-five
percent to current forces. Now with further changes in the Soviet Union there will be further reductions, maybe. The Secretary
of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs have articulated a national military strategy consonant with the President's goals
and this is the minimum number of forces necessary to implement that strategy. We've got to have a certain capability
to do certain things, and mostly this is to be prepared to intervene in things like Iraq or Panama if
the need should arise to protect U.S. interests and citizens abroad. Now, the need for good intelligence is not going
to go down; it's going to change. Before, the Soviet threat structured intelligence as much as it structured anything else
and so it told us what kind of information we had to collect and what sort of intelligence we had
to produce from that information and typically it was very fine-grained analysis that would allow us in a very short
period of time to go to war with this adversary. We clearly don't need that anymore, but there are other
pressing needs that under the pressure of the Cold War we ignored or gave lower priority to. Among them are
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, narcotics, and even information about causes of instability. A lot of our intel
system was structured to collect information on the Soviets that would be useful to war-fighters. That kind of information is
less applicable to the problems we now have. A satellite taking pictures of tanks in a motor park is still
useful for monitoring compliance with international treaties. It is less useful for predicting what country X is going to do
about country Y's border problem or the nature of ethnic unrest in Z or the flow of narcotics from South
America to Europe to the United States. So intel will continue to have a role to play. Like everyone else
it will do so in an era of decreasing resources and unfortunately in an era of decreasing interest. A lot
of people in this country--not just cynical politicians who want a peace dividend in their district--are going to want to
see a result of the war being over.Analogy I would draw would be the pressure that existed in the late
fall and early winter of 1945 to bring the boys home. They want to bring the boys home.

Davidsonian: You’ve been in the Soviet Union; you lived there for a long period of time and were there right
before the August coup and I wonder if you could give us an idea of that situation from your own
point of view. Who are we dealing with and what do you see that situation evolving into?

Govan: The question of with whom we’re dealing is a basic one. For convenience, and a variety of other reasons,
we would like to continue dealing with a unitary Soviet state. If I have one office that is responsible for
questions relating to this land mass, it’s easier to go to him and get a single answer than to go
to fifteen or sixteen different people and get that many different answers. If there is a unified office in control,
maybe they are also able to impose some kind of unity and decrease the amount of instability and, from our
point of view, unpredictability.

Last night I noted that Soviet studies in former times were a little bit like glaciology. It moved rather slowly,
there was no question that it was big and if you got in front of it, it could crush you.
But it was something that you could walk away from, have a cup of coffee, take a year off and
write a book, and come back, check in with a couple of newspapers and you were able to maintain an
academically credible currency. That isn’t true anymore; it hasn’t been true for a number of years under the revolution that
Gorbachev loosed.

The big problem then for us looking at the Soviet Union and U.S. decision-makers is that we are in an
era of great uncertainty. Linear projections made sense all through the seventies. You knew what the Soviet Union had done.
There was almost historic inevitability. There was certainly an accepted corpus of information from which you could derive intentions and
you were able to get the two basic components of the intel question: capability, what he could do, and intention,
what he was likely to do given that. Now, both of those are in doubt. We know, to a much
greater degree, the capability. So we know the toys he has and what he can do with them. In some
cases, you can do more with a given capability than the capability would imply. I’ve heard people say that the
Gulf War could have been fought to the same conclusion if we had swapped equipment sets. That our people were
so incredibly well-trained and so well-motivated and had put their guide on the moral high ground that we would have
still beaten them. That’s an extreme statement. Unquestionably, technological superiority and the proper use of that technology played a key
role. But it underscores a valid point, that how fast a tank can move and how far it can shoot
with what accuracy and what proof it is against the other guy’s anti-tank weapons isn’t the end of the story.
In some ways, you can perform better than you would expect from the equipment you have. The Israelis defeating the
Arabs in ’73 with World War II Shermans is one example.

The Soviet Union continues to maintain a capability to destroy America as a society, the only people that can hope
to do that in a short period of time. But is that a capability that is likely to be used?
Though the nuclear inventory hasn’t changed very much, at no time has there been less likelihood that we’re going to
go to war with the Soviets over any credible political objective. The future, though, is very uncertain, always is. Yogi
Berra said, “The future ain’t what it used to be.” That’s clearly true today. You can come up with a
number of guesses as to what’s going to happen, not too many of which are going to have an influence
on American existence or policy or interests directly. We don’t know who the actors of the future are going to
be. If everything goes well, it’s a race between historical determinism that says that Russia will slip back, as it
always did after a period of revolutionary fervor, into a kind of autocratic stupor. It’s a race between that and
the hope that out of a truly revolutionary situation you can have real change. Not that man is savable but
that he can make progress.

Davidsonian: Did you see any indications that this might be different? That they might avoid this historical stupor that you
spoke of?

Govan: Yes. The most dramatic was right after I left and that was the events on the 20th of August
when the people rallied to Yeltsin’s cause. When the coup was announced it was like getting hit in the head
with a hammer. It was an absolute shock, watching on CNN as all the world does at an air base
in Germany where we were on leave, having just left the Soviet Union. I turned the TV on that morning
and there was the announcement that hardliners had deposed Mikhail Gorbachev and I thought, “Oh, no.” I thought that what’s
going to happen is that these old men are going to get up there and try to turn the clock
back and they’re going to read a proclamation and the Russians are going to bow their heads and punch their
shoulders and shuffle off to go stand in the food lines. And that’s going to be it. I didn’t have
sufficient faith in the people that I’d studied all this time because historically that’s what should have happened. And it
didn’t. Because of the truly incredible personal and political bravery of a few people, the Yeltsins and Sobchaks and Popovs
of the world, and then the real heroism of a lot of crazy people that stood up in the best
tradition of the students in Les Miserables. Why is it that the revolutionaries always have better songs than the government?
Well, the Russian people had the better song and rose to a level of responsibility that I don’t think most
people would have credited them with. That was reason for hope. People began to lose the fear of speaking out
and began to realize that the truth could actually be told. That’s a long way around of saying that some
leaders emerged out of an historically conditioned past where they might not have. In a number of different ways, I
was inclined to see an independence of thought and the raw ability to grow that I wouldn’t have expected and
had no reason to expect. I’m not defending being wrong about my estimate of the possibility but you weren’t inclined
to credit them with the possibility of being successful. In that regard, it was a great revolution. That doesn’t mean
that two weeks or ten years from now they can’t lose it all and somebody will make the fatal bargain
and say, “I’m tired of eating freedom. I want bread.”
