12 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINION

Mandingo...Travis Hinson & Rafael Candelario

BSC is Open to Anyone

T-Yo Rafrod, I’m getting the hell out of here! I just can’t take this school anymore!

R-Come on Rock! It can’t be that bad, can it? I mean we’ve been here 3 years.

T-Exactly! 3 long years and it’s been the same crap every year. The semester starts off good and you think
that things have become better for black students here until mid-semester hits, and you find that it’s the same isolated
campus. Not to mention there are already two other black students leaving next semester!

R-Damn! I guess you are right. Since we’ve been here the number of black students has decreased in every freshman
class. I remember that there used to be eighty black students, now there are only sixty! What’s up?

T-I'll tell you what’s up! It’s a conspiracy!! MR. CHARLIE is trying to keep us (black folks) down!!! (MR. CHARLIE:
the white establishment that has continuously held black folks down in America. Candelario and Hinson Black Slang Dictionary co. 1992.)

R-Yo, calm down Rock! We have to start thinking positive. Yes, the attrition rate for black students is horrible. Yes,
the number of black freshman entering in every class is decreasing, but we all have to do something about it.

T-You’re right. I guess I had better get off my black ass and do something about it. The only way
that the number of black students will increase at Davidson College is if the black students themselves get involved with
the process. No one else can do it.

R-Maybe, I think white students can get involved too. Right now I think black students here get a bad rap.
A lot of white students are scared to even look at us or even come down to our house. Did
the freshman halls even get to look at the BSC house during house presentations? If the majority of them remain
scared of us, it will be obvious to black perspectives and they won’t come. It has to be a dual
process: student involvement in recruiting, and the reeducation of white students concerning African-American culture.

T-As President of the Black Student Coalition, all that I can say is that our doors are open to anyone.
But at the same time, I’m not going to beg anyone, black or white, to become involved with the BSC.
And please, don’t come feeling guilty!

R-Word! Let’s go see Malcolm X, like the rest of the Davidson population is going to do, right? Yo Rock!...
that was awesome!

T-Awesome?...Oh, it's a Zulu Thang man! ("Zulu Thang": see Candelario and Hinson Black Slang Dictionary)

Grandpa's Story about the Lions Ever

Continued from page 11

the mashed potatoes with Giblet gravy, and the Stove Top Stuffing; men have been sitting around perfecting their ability to
belch America the Beautiful in C minor and rhythmically coordinate delightful armpit noises. Somewhere in the Women’s movement, the women
realized how unfair this situation was, stood up and demanded: “We also want something we can watch that allows us
to sit around perfecting our ability to belch America the Beautiful in C minor and rhythmically coordinate armpit noises!” Thus
they got another Thanksgiving television tradition: The Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade.

The Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade allows viewers all over America to watch the people of New York stare at the
underside of big polyethylene helium-inflated cartoon characters. Many New York parents drag their kids out of bed and line them
up in the streets of New York so their kids can understand and enjoy parade tradition, meet friendly New Yorkers
and be the talk of kindergarten the following week when they boast to the other unlucky five-year-olds: “Mommy told me
that the big yellow blob I saw through the fat man’s bald spot was really Big Bird’s thumb!”

On Thursday, many of us will be going home to celebrate the traditional Thanksgiving with family and friends. We’re probably
going to watch a little football with the family or at least listen to Aunt Fran’s trip to Bermuda during
commercials. We're going to enjoy sitting down at the table and finishing off the many foods that the relatives brought
too much of. And we're going to enjoy it. Happy Thanksgiving! And remember, if Mom should ask you how the
turkey was, just tell her like it is: “WHAT?!! NO PASS INTERFERENCE?!! He was all over the guy!”

Karl Malone Was Way Off Base

Continued from page 6

read that Magic Johnson has retired for the second time. He didn’t retire because he couldn’t compete anymore or because
he sustained a career-ending injury; he retired because of ignorant people. A good example of one of these people is
Karl Malone. Karl Malone plays for the Utah Jazz, and was a teammate of Magic’s on the Dream Team in
Barcelona. In The New York Times he said: “Look at the cuts and scratches I get now. All of a
sudden, the last second of the game, and here comes Magic to the basket. It’s the same as, what if
I had the virus as a player and what if a Buck Williams or a Charles Barkley comes in? It
is a physical game and you get kicked and scratched. I do haveconcerns, just like anybody would have. It’s not
a thing of kicking a man when he’s down.” Malone seems to think he is still in the third grade.
It sounds like he thinks AIDS is like the cooties; if you are touched by someone with AIDS, then you
get it too. The odds of catching the AIDS virus during a basketball game are about equal to the odds
of falling off a twenty-story building and living. Well, I’ve rambled on long enough. Bye.

Volunteerism Shouldn't Be Law

Nest Continued from page 6

that Germany would benefit if everyone let the government and the law take care of all problems. Look what happened.
Thankfully, we’re not at that point in America, but remember that twenty years ago buckling up was only a good
idea. Now it’s in the books. Today, giving blood is a good idea. Will they make us do it in
twenty years? Today, carpooling is a good idea. Get ready for the fifty-mile-a-day limit. (Especially if Gore is still around.)
Aerobics are good for your health. Get ready for Jane Fonda’s government-mandated workout! If you don’t do it, they’re coming
to get you. Folks, resist people making you do something because they think it’s good for you; do it because
you think it’s good for you. I don’t know about you guys but I’ve had just about enough of people
telling me I’m apathetic. I’m not. I love football, I wait eagerly for

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

Frampton Rules: We're Not Apathetic, We're Not Interested

think this campus is apathetic. That’s true, to an extent. What we are is apathetic towards the things the people
who accuse are interested in. I simply don’t care because that is something I am interested in. She spoke directly
to one of my interests. I also watched the Denver Broncos game last Sunday night because I like doing that.
There are few things that make me happier than a John Elway-driven, last-minute offensive blitz. Is that so wrong? For
some reason, people at Davidson talk about some soccer and basketball games. I’d rather watch a documentary on a baby
elephant named Edgar than listen to someone ramble on about the state legislature candidates from this region. I mean, I
can’t vote for them anyway, and neither can sixty percent of the rest of the campus. Most students do some
type of thing that helps others, be it writing in the newspaper, building houses for Habitat, or helping arrange speakers.
However, they have no right to accuse other people of being apathetic when they are simply not interested in what
the accusers are doing. So please, next time you want to call someone a bad name, think about whether you
would go to the lecture they arranged to be given by Ravi Shankar, famous sitar player. Doubt it.

Gays Deserve More...

Hood Continued from page 6

Davidson. It is an extremely rare individual among us who has not come into contact with gays throughout the courses
of our daily lives. You most likely do not even know that some of these people are gay; in fact,
you probably assume they are straight and never consider otherwise. The point is that sexual orientation should not be the
basis for legislation. Sexual conduct should be. Those who infringe on others’ rights, be they homosexual or heterosexual, should certainly
be disciplined. Punishing someone solely on the basis of his or her sexual orientation appears to be the result of
ignorance and fear. Lifting the military ban on gays is just one small part of a far greater issue. Government
cannot change people’s attitudes, but it is not entirely powerless in eradicating injustices. President-elect Clinton’s proposal is an example of
such legislation.

We Need More Models

Deep Continued from page 11

turbing pattern is slight compared to the Baby Boom’s failure to give its children boundless horizons. Far too many of
our generation’s fold grow up feeling stuck—constricted by societal forces that they cannot control. The situation is worst in our
inner cities where children see gang membership as their only form of identity and drug dealing as the only means
of escaping poverty. The extent of this feeling does not stop in the streets, however. Here at Davidson, for instance,
one finds a surprising degree of concern and even pessimism about our prospects for finding a place in the world
after graduation. People our age all over America, in fact, through a combination of having their heroes demythicized and their
visions of the future undercut by the present reality, have lost much of their youthful enthusiasm. They wonder, frankly, if
the American dream still exists. So how are we to react to all of this? Are we to blame our
parents for starting our generation off on the wrong foot? I think not. The most effective way we can respond
to the Baby Boom’s weaknesses is to be aware of the mistakes so that we do not make them ourselves.
If we realize our moral obligations to our children now, we will, unlike our parents, be able to say in
25 years that we have succeeded.
