Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992 NUMBER 20

Select Committee on Intolerance Releases Report
By Tom Koonce

After three weeks of conducting interviews and investigating indications of intolerance and impropriety on the Davidson campus, the Select Committee
on Alleged Intolerance released a report on March 12 summarizing its findings. The committee was appointed by President John Kuykendall
on February 11 and consisted of Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, Chaplain Charles Hasty, Associate Psychology Professor Cole Barton, Associate
English Professor Gail Gibson, and students John Patton '92 and Machelle Sweeting '93. Dean Williams was elected as chair of
this committee. He was out of town this past week and unavailable for comment on the committee's report.

The group met twice a day from February 11 through February 28 and interviewed 29 students, 5 faculty members, and
11 staff members. Hasty said, “I feel like it was an adequate amount of time” to conduct this investigation. He
said, “The charge wasn’t to do a total and extensive investigation, we had a more narrow view of what this
was about. If the committee had spent a lot longer, the issues would have died down. The situation mandated swift
action on the part of our committee.” Hasty said, “With limited time and limited scope of the report, we did
a pretty thorough job.”

Kuykendall said of this committee, “They have obviously done us all a service by being a willing ear.” He said,
“They had the latitude to make recommendations. The assumption was to give us some ideas.” He added that these recommendations
were not binding on people in responsibility.

The committee’s report, entitled “Rebuilding Community,” states in the introduction that the document does not attempt to review the “positive
activities and contributions which could be ascribed to individuals and groups discussed” in the report. It states that the document
instead “focuses on...perceptions and problems” and its purpose is to “call for action on issues which are a cause for
common concern.” John Patton said that after hearing from various students, faculty, and staff it was hard to be positive
and that the committee ended up with a "real negative" view.

See "Committee" on page 5

North Carolina Congressman Charles Rose, a 1961 Davidson graduate, speaks Monday, March 23 in the 900 Room on "The Role
of NATO in the New World Order". See story on page 2 and the Back Page Interview.

Campus Survey Reveals Little Student Desire for Quiet Dorms
By Phelps Sprinkle

Recently there have been concerns among the student body concerning the issue of quiet dorms. In light of these concerns,
four students (Joseph Cook, Blair Harkness, Rebecca Hunter, and Anne Wampler) joined together to find out the students’ perspective on
this issue. On February 25, Cook and Harkness distributed an Excess Noise Survey to hall counselors and resident advisors “stemming
from concern on behalf of some faculty members about noise levels adversely affecting classroom performance.” The questions on the survey
were: (1) Do you know the current policy?

See "Quiet" on page 4

Bumstead, Milligan Elected To Honor Council Chair, Secretary
By Tom Price

This past Tuesday night Matt Bumstead was elected chairman of the Davidson College Honor Council. Bumstead, a junior religion major
from Nashville, Tennessee, assumes the post immediately and will serve through next Spring. Bumstead, who served last year as the
Council’s secretary, was first elected to the Honor Council in the Spring of his freshman year and has sat on
a total of seven trials. As Chairman, Bumstead will sit on all trials, ensuring a trial’s proper and orderly progression.
The chairman ensures that the Council’s questioning is relevant and fair.

Catherine Milligan, a junior from Rome, Georgia, was elected as the new secretary of the Honor Council.to the President. The
Committee reported on campus attitudes toward the fraternity, listed allegations against the fraternity, and then later in the report, recommended
sanctions against the house. The portion of the section written about SAE begins, “Most cases of harassment on the campus
which were reported to us led back to the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house.” The committee said that many perceive the
house to be “a fraternity of wealth, influence, and untouchability.” Also, they said, “The ‘brotherhood’ appears to espouse a code
of silence which places loyalty to the fraternity above the rules of Davidson College.”

The committee listed 12 allegations against SAE and said that “in no case has any individual accepted full responsibility for
any of these actions.” They went on to say, “This committee concludes that their abuses differ significantly from those of
other groups on campus.”

In the recommendation section of the report, the committee said, “The President should direct the Dean of Students to suspend
the fraternity from all Patterson Court activities, including rushing, initiation of the Class of 1995 and pledging of the Class
of 1996, and parties (social probation), until July 1, 1994.” Other recommendations included the appointment of three SAE alumni “to
monitor the activities of the fraternity during the suspension period and subsequently” and a public apology from the fraternity “for
its behavior this year.”

Steven Lilly, the President of SAE, believes that the committee’s report “deals unfairly with [SAE].”

See "SAE" on page 4

Patterson Court Presidents Comment On Report's Findings
By Cindy Ebbs

On March 11, 1992, a Report to the President of Davidson College by the Select Committee on Alleged Intolerance entitled
“Rebuilding Community” was published and released to the Davidson Community. The presidents of each house on Patterson Court were contacted
and asked to express their views and perceptions on the Report in general, the Report regarding Patterson Court, and the
specific allegations and recommendations regarding the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity described in the Report. Those who responded are David Wright
of Phi Delta Theta, Sarah Way of Connor House, Travis Hinson of the Black Student Coalition, Zama Neff of Spencer
House, Stuart Hardy of Pi Kappa Alpha, Mandy Aycock of Warner Hall, Chris Malanuk of The Kappa Alpha Order, Susan
Wallace of Rusk House, and Steven Lilly of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

David Wright, on behalf of Phi Delta Theta, “applauds President Kuykendall’s effort to understand Patterson Court.” However, he does not
see the recommended reforms of the self-selection process as “appropriate,” nor does he “see the need for them.” He feels
that if this proposed process were instituted, national fraternities on campus would be facing a “slow death.” Wright also stated
that the recommendation to suspend SAE for two years, prohibiting the initiation of pledge classes, also “is a prescription for
a slow death for the SAE Fraternity.” Wright believes that “some [of SAE’s] actions do warrant punishment,” but the recommendations
given by the committee are “extremely harsh.” Wright also stated that it would be more productive to have SAE as
“a working member of the community.” Wright stated that the Report is “shocking and extremely foreign to all of the
members of Phi Delta Theta.” He believes that “in-

See "Presidents" on page 3

INSIDE:
selected to serve as the Council’s secretary. The secretary sits on all trials and is responsible for producing the digest.
The digest is the official record of a trial and is used by the review board in the case of
an appeal. During hearings of the Review Board, the

See "Bumstead" on Page 4

NEWS: College Receives Million Dollar Gift. See page 2.
U.S. Poet Laureate to Visit Campus. See page 4.

OPINIONS: Shealy Sees the Good in Fraternities. See page 10.

SPORTS: Baseball Rolls to 15-6 Record. See page 13.
Men's Tennis Undefeated Over Break. See page 15.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
