2

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

Spike Lee Promotes

New Film on Campus
Bomb Threat Forces Event to be Moved to
Johnston Gym Minutes Prior to Speech

By Tom Koonce

On Wednesday, October 21, filmmaker Spike Lee spoke to a large Davidson audience and fielded questions from the crowd during
a “Rap Session” held in Johnston Gym. The program was moved to Johnston after a fictitious bomb threat was called
in two minutes before the talk was to begin in Love Auditorium.

Lee has directed six films in the past seven years, including Do the Right Thing and Jungle Fever. He is
a graduate of Morehouse College in Atlanta and NYU Film School. He was brought to Davidson in order to help
solve underlying problems of racial intolerance on campus. Several different college groups, including the Union and the Dean of Students
Office, sponsored Lee’s talk.

Lee spoke from the middle of the gym to a crowd which filled one side of the building’s bleachers. He
wore a black “X” hat as he walked around the temporary “stage.” Speaking casually to the audience, Lee began the
program by talking for ten to fifteen minutes about his new movie, Malcolm X. He spoke about the length of
the movie (over three hours), Denzel Washington’s “amazing” performance as Malcolm X, the film’s budget, and why he wanted to
direct this production. Lee said that Malcolm X is “the best thing I’ve done so far.”

After finishing this promotion of the movie, Lee told why he decided to accept the invitation to speak at Davidson.
He said, “One of the reasons why I speak at colleges and universities is because I realize you make up
a large part of the audience who sees my films and to combat the negative press I get.”

Lee later cited how the media took a comment of his telling people to skip work and class to go
see Malcolm X on its opening day, out of context. “That statement got blown out of proportion. I still don’t
think that’s a radical statement. I don’t think learning and education have to take place within four walls,” said Lee.

The questions lobbed at Lee by the audience covered a wide spectrum of issues, but the majority centered on the
speaker’s films and the various components that went into making these movies. Only one question dealt with a topic specific
to this campus.

Lee was asked whether or not he thought black fraternities and establishments contributed to a separatist movement. The student questioner
mentioned that Davidson was just granted a chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha. Lee said, “By granting a charter of A
Phi A, that is not separatism as well as establishing a Black Cultural Center at UNC (is not). Pro-black does
not equal anti-white. They are entirely two different things.”

When asked how he feels racial tensions will be in this country ten years from now, Lee said, “I’m a
filmmaker. I pose the questions to get people thinking. I don’t have any answers.”

Lee also answered questions about his opinions on the presidential race (“I think Bush is gone”), the Anita Hill allegations
against Clarence Thomas, Malcolm X articles as fashion symbols (“I acknowledge that they might not know who he is..., but
it’s alright if it’s a beginning”), his opinions of the Muslim religion, etc.

Lee also spoke some on racism after he was asked about his past comments on that subject. He said, “I
find it very hard for black people to be racists. To me racism is an institution. You have to have
power to enforce rules. Everybody can be prejudiced. To me racism is a lot bigger danger than prejudice.” Lee also
said that he thinks every African-American has felt racism in this country.

Davidson was the first stop for Lee on a fall campus tour. His new movie is scheduled to open on
November 20, but that date is subject to change.

You don’t have to be a great waiter to participate in Davidson Hot Meals. Every other week, students provide various
types of entertainment while others sit and visit with the seniors who come to the Ada Jenkins Center for a
hot lunch. All that is required of volunteers is one and a half hours, on Wednesday from 11:00 a.m. to
12:30 p.m., and a smiling face. Hope to see you there! Ada Jenkins Community Center, next Wednesday at 11:00 a.m.
If you have any questions, please call either Patrick White (-6106) or Alice Chakmakian (-6623).

Homelessness
Reach Out’s Homelessness Committee has been volunteering at the Uptown Men’s Shelter this semester, mainly on a random schedule. Besides
working with the meal service, volunteers have worked in the clothing closet, providing help with the shelter’s maintenance, and sorting
donations.

The committee will also soon begin volunteering at the Salvation Army's Women’s Shelter. The late start is due to a
complete overhaul of the shelter’s volunteer program, but we hope the response will be great. Volunteers will be taking care
of the children at the shelter in the evenings, once a week. If you have any questions or would like
to volunteer, please call John Franklin (-6245).

Recycle this Davidsonian please!

Who will teach for America?

TEACH FOR AMERICA makes it possible to teach in an urban or rural public school without being an education major!

Teach For America is a national teacher corps of talented, dedicated individuals from all academic majors and ethnic backgrounds who
commit two years to teach in under-resourced urban and rural public schools. Salaries range from $15,000 - $27,000 and partial
cancellation (Perkins/NDSL) or deferment (Stafford/GSL) loans is possible.

TEACH FOR AMERICA

Information Session
Davidson College
November 3, 1992
at 7:00 pm
Morrison Room
Grey College Union

For more information contact your career center or call 1-800-832-1230
