10 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

Beyond Birkenstock

Hey, They're Finally Pretty Funny--Only Kidding Birk Kids

You ever wonder how some people ever got in here anyway? Take for instance, us. Now, in our case, your surprise is probably directed more at the fact that Harvard or Stanford wasn’t our first choice. You’re no doubt posing this perplexing question in dorms and faculty lounges across campus: “Why would two phenomenally intelligent young minds (as the Birks obviously are) decide to pursue their budding academic careers in such an intellectual backwater as Davidson College?”

In reply, both to you our reader, and to our biographers reading this column years . . . nay, centuries later, “Because we’re modest.” That’s right, plain and simple humility. Just the same self-effacing manner that our forebears, the reigning European monarchy, once possessed. No, no... there is not the need to bow and curtsy (for you girls, this has become a lost art that will stand you in good stead later in life) whenever you see us. Although it is a custom to greet visiting heads of state (and various tin-pot dictators) with a curt bend at the knees, along the Japanese model, it really isn’t necessary. We're Americans, dammit--we fought a war so that the American peasant class (a.k.a. the “middle class”) wouldn’t have to bow and scrape every time one of their social, intellectual, or materially wealthy betters came along. You may greet us as Equals, displaying of course the proper deference accorded figures of our stature. Do not attempt to hug us, it is inappropriate. Speak when spoken to, and NO TOUCHING!

Back to the subject at hand, however. What about all these people wandering around here who just don’t belong. As far as we can tell, these folks cross every ethnic and gender boundary. Every region of our great country has contributed at least one slacker (although Georgia seems to have enough to spare). Perhaps you too are a member of the leisure set. Curious? Take our ten-question test which follows. Those of you who score five and up are definitely SLACK.

J. Kyle Kinner & Seth J. McLaughlin

1) Do you find your hands twitching mysteriously in class, until you realize that they’re still playing that troublesome third quarter at Buffalo on SEGA® Football?
2) Do you wait with barely controlled anticipation for the weekend when you can “finally get some rest” even though you did no work, nor attended a class during the previous week?
3) Are you intimately acquainted with “Mom” and “Dad”--not your biological parents, but the cook and waitress at Bacon & Egg?
4) Do you assume that “Chal” is some nerd, since you’ve always heard him mentioned as being “in the library?”
5) Do you belong to a fraternity? A woman’s eating house?
6) Do you feel relief that they’d still give you a diploma, “even with a 2.0?”
7) Are your paper topics in history derived from until you realize that they’re still playing that troublesome third quarter at Buffalo on SEGA® Football?

"There Are More Than Two Views to Everything"

By Rami El Amine

I got pissed off the other day when B turned to me and said, “Only someone as PC as you would say that,” in response to something I had said which had nothing to do with what is normally associated with this idiotic PC debate. Looking back now I’m glad it happened because it pissed me off enough to write this article which I have been thinking about since the so-called “tensions” broke out on campus. It was yet another example of how most of you, despite the fact that you attend what is supposedly one of the top liberal arts colleges in the nation, have no mind of your own. That’s why everything becomes a fad around here, no one takes the time to question our culture and society. This lack of a critical mind has, in my opinion, not only contributed to the recent problems but prevented us from dealing with them in an appropriate manner.

Despite the fact that you had time to observe and criticize the PC controversy’s detrimental effect on campuses throughout the country over the past year or so, you still managed to get caught up in its superficiality. Without pausing a moment to analyze the situation in a rational manner, people jumped into their assigned roles (liberal or conservative) and played them out exactly as planned using the same arguments and counterarguments as those utilized by students on other campuses.

However, my problem is more with the liberals than with the reactionaries since at least the former are trying to move forward and address social problems. The problem with liberalism, on the other hand, is that it lacks the critical analysis mentioned earlier and instead runs on emotion and sensationalism. Why do I say this? First of all, if you who took the liberal position were truly fed up with a status quo which forces us to conform to societal norms based on racism, sexism, and other power relations, the recent problems could have been avoided. Most of you don’t care about how these problems manifest themselves in the larger society or in the world, they’re only a problem when they’re so close to home. This clearly supports my assertion that liberalism is not a genuine movement for social change. Anyway, how could it be when the majority of its adherents (mostly middle class and mostly wealthy) are as much a part of the mainstream as the conservatives. Multiculturalism will help clarify this point because it is an ideal middle-class “fad.” It gives people the impression that they are achieving something socially significant whenThey call homosexuals gay or lesbian, or blacks, African Americans, or females, women. It’s not that these are irrelevant, but they don’t call for true social action. What ends up happening, and has happened, is that real problems lose meaning and begin to be brushed aside as trivialities. You have people like B. telling me I’m being PC for something that had nothing to do with true social problems. And even if I had been talking about a societal problem, it would have lost all meaning when someone dismisses it as something I picked up in the PC game, instead of explaining why he/she does not feel that it is a problem. My biggest problem with multiculturalism, however, is that its liberal adherents have resorted to the same intolerance which we have fought against for so long. Those committed to challenging the system of power should know better than to call for restricting anyone’s freedom of speech.

End Continued from page 9

Even more girls will attend Davidson than guys mean that this is your last hurrah. So go out there and get some. --Finally, why doesn’t the Union Cafe carry medium-sized 2% milk? I mean the half-pints are cool, look at Laura Ingalls’ name on “Little House on the Prairie.” However, the whole situation reminds me of buying a carrot. You can’t buy just one, you have to buy like ten. I guess the reverse happens here. If I want to drink a pint of 2% milk I have to buy two of the little squirts while the unhealthy Vitamin D drinkers get a deal on the milk. I think there is a little bit of a prejudice showing through here. Oh, well. Have a nice summer in your boring little jobs and remember I’ll be living with what amounts to 12 Tri-Delts at Chapel Hill this summer. (Now you know why I want out of this place.)

Themes that were suggested to you by Bill & Ted?
8) Are your parents footing the bill for you to spend a year “finding yourself” after college?
9) If you live down the hill, do you routinely drive to class? If up the hill, do you routinely drive to the post office?
10) Are you a member of the class of 1992?

If you answered yes to five or more questions, regardless of your GPA, then you are lazy. It’s a harsh word, we know, but the world is even harsher. For those of you who “do the best work between 2:00 and 6:00 AM,” try that schedule out on your future employer. And unless your new boss is a pot grower himself (and how many of us aspire to work for the drug culture), that’s another habit you’re probably going to have to give up. Old South? Try taking the kids for a weekend of that kind of debauchery and see what social services says. No, a family wants to go to Disney World. And we’re all going to have kids, aren’t we (some of us probably already do)? The world of responsibility begins, for some of you, the second Kuykendall or Williams (or whoever) hands you that diploma. Not to throw a bucket of cold water on your happy day, but unless you have the rare, parental golden parachute, you’re going to find that the outside is a little bit more demanding than even the vaunted “Davidson Workload.” Yes, you’re probably more mature than you were four years ago, but you’re also four years older. Time waits for no one; NOW GET TO WORK!!!

Figlio Continued from page 7

Suggested that as many as one in ten Americans is gay or lesbian. At Davidson, that would mean well over a hundred, two or three per hall. They’re probably everywhere! Scary, isn’t it? It’s a good thing we’ve been able to suppress them. And you know what the scariest thing is about them? They’re so much like us that we can’t tell who’s gay and who’s straight. They like those study breaks in the Union just like we do. They like to pickle themselves on the Court, just like us. They even like those late nights with ESPN that bring us all so much closer together. They could be our roommates or those cool guys and girls we met at Freshmen Orientation way back when. How could we handle knowing that they weren’t exactly like us? I wonder why they haven’t come forward. Didn’t they like those good “fag and lesbo” jokes? It’s gotten so bad around the country that just about every other nationally recognized college and university has accepted and actively supported institutions for gays and lesbians on campus. That could never happen here. We couldn’t stray far from the principles and nineteenth-century moralism that this school was founded on. Think of the implications. It would mean accepting some things that we could never deal with: premarital sex, dancing, the equality of women, oh, and, God forbid, ending slavery. Oh yea, we already lost that last one in a war a few years back, so I guess blacks shouldn’t want anything else, either. This school started out a small, regional backwater, and that’s how we want it to stay, right? Once again, I want to thank those thoughtful Davidson students who took it upon themselves to remove my flyers. I realize now that they shouldn’t have gone up in the first place. I don’t know what I was thinking. I just didn’t inhale that straight, white aroma deeply enough.

Rick Figlio
Class of ‘94

Lane Continued from page 7

Issue and that. In the meantime, kick off your shoes and see how long you can stare at your tootsies without cracking a smile. ;-)

F. AIT LANE, JR