THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992

Who Is Lauch Faircloth & Who Paid for His Victory?
By Tom Koonce

North Carolinians failed once again. When given the chance to re-elect a respected and honored senator, the citizens of this
state chose an organization and its puppet candidate. Lauch Faircloth was a Democrat until last year, but when he and
the National Congressional Club (a Raleigh political action committee) realized that Senator Terry Sanford was one of the more vulnerable
senators on Capitol Hill, Faircloth switched his party allegiance to the Republican camp and eventually became controlled by the ultra-conservative,
Jesse Helms-led, Congressional Club. The club completely managed all aspects of Faircloth’s successful campaign and took that right-wing crusade to
lower levels than they had for Helms in 1984 or 1990.

The majority of North Carolina Republicans didn’t even rally around Faircloth. In Raleigh, the GOP held their election night party
across town from where Faircloth and the club were celebrating. This showed that even Republicans in North Carolina weren’t proud
to call Faircloth one of their own.

Senator Terry Sanford, a former governor of this state and Duke University president, exemplifies everything that is just and pure
in the Senate. Despite his defeat, Sanford’s record of public service should make the people of this state proud. In
his years as a senator, Sanford performed well for North Carolina and the country. He chaired the Senate Ethics Committee
and served on the Foreign Relations Committee. In his campaign this year, Sanford stressed his support for improved health care,
tax breaks for investments that create jobs, and fully funding childhood programs such as Head Start.

But the majority of the people in this state chose to ignore Sanford’s fine history and agenda and elected a
man who has no real credentials for the job. Faircloth rarely spoke for himself in his campaign; instead, he relied
on the Congressional Club to run the race for him. The club, an appropriate name for a conservative organization where
upper-class senior white males work to preserve their rights at the expense of limiting the rights of minorities, bombarded North
Carolina with negative ads which distorted Sanford’s record as a senator. Sanford’s campaign seemed caught off guard by this kind
of dirty campaign and did not effectively respond to the club’s false charges until it was too late. Sanford himself
did not seem motivated enough to organize and lead the kind of campaign that was needed to shoot down the
accusations made against him by the club. Maybe it was Sanford’s health that persuaded many voters to see "Koonce" on
page 9.

In Black and White... Fill in the Blanks About our Past

Play the following game with us. We’ll give you a sentence with a word or phrase missing, and you fill
in the blanks. (We stole this from the last SERCH meeting; thanks to Anthony Foxx.)

1. My name is (blank). Did you get it? Good! We’re so happy. Now try this one:
2. When I think of my racial identity, I think of (blank), that makes me feel (blank), and I act
(blank).

Harder, isn’t it? We think so too. It’s not a bad exercise, though, particularly for those of us who rarely
have to think about racial identity. Reading our answers may give you some insights into what it’s like to be
a minority, or what it’s like to be white faced with racism towards blacks. Here’s what we answered.

Deidra: When I think of my racial identity, I think of being black; that makes me feel proud, and I
act accordingly. I always feel a sense of pride about my heritage, but it depends on the group I’m with
whether I am my complete self or if I’m a little cautious. If I’m with my friends, a mixture of
black and white, I am more relaxed. But if I’m with a group of all white people, I am more
cautious because I don’t know how they will react to me.

Scott: When I think of my racial identity, I think of being white; that makes me feel privileged, and I
act responsibly. I am aware of the things that Western Europeans have done in the past, notably the oppression of
other peoples across the globe, but I don’t necessarily think I’m a part of that.

Deidra: I don’t want you to think you are responsible for the actions of your ancestors, but I do think
that pride in our racial identities includes not forgetting the past, in hopes that it positively shapes the future. I
know I will never forget the events of the past, but it is extremely important that you do the same.

Scott: I don’t think I can forget. When I know that some members of my grandparents’ generation have memories of
the remnants of slavery, when I hear that many white people support Neanderthals like David Duke, when I hear people
our age using racist terms, it becomes impossible to forget.white people but mostly black, I act my usual self. However,
if I’m with people I don’t feel comfortable around, I won’t let loose.

Scott: Do you have to be mostly with black people to “be yourself”?

Scott: Where does this sense of pride come from, and why is it important?

Deidra: My parents have always tried to instill a sense of self-confidence and strength within me, and racial pride is
a big aspect of that. If you’re a minority, and you’re not proud of your culture and heritage, how do
you expect to survive in majority-ruled society?

Scott: When I think of my racial identity, I think of my European heritage, that makes me feel proud. I’m
not proud of some of the things my ancestors did, but it’s impossible for me to forget. The past shapes
our national memory. I do think, however, that we should look beyond it. I condemn what my European ancestors have
done, but that doesn’t preclude being proud of my cultural heritage. Their mindset is not a part of me; I
don’t identify with it. My pride is more of a cultural pride than a racial one: it’s hard to define
“the white race”. I feel pride in current English and European achievements.

See "B&W" on page 9

Pithy Irreverence... Let There Be Light

The other evening as I was straining to see my dinner, I came to a conclusion: It’s getting dark way
too early. Great. Now I knew what they did with the hour. I was relieved. Then I was pissed. What
the hell good does an extra hour do if it begins at 6 o’clock in the morning? Who’s up to
enjoy daylight that early? The only people I know who could enjoy that hour are over-virile old men who, by
5:00 a.m., have had a delicious bowl of oat bran and cleaned everything in sight (and, if it’s the weekend,
caught a whole boat-full of award-winning bass) and are waiting impatiently for their hot-off-the-presses newspaper to be delivered by “that
slack paper boy.” That’s not natural.

I’m not a big morning person. Perhaps you’ve noticed if you’ve seen me in the morning. Say, 9:00 a.m. risk
a kick in the shin. Yes, I am slack. I usually roll out of bed around 11:00, if I can
get away with it. It’s lovely. I feel rested and, unless I’ve done a lot of partying the night before,
I won’t need a nap.

See "Pithy" on page 9

Gull's Nest... Bill Gullan

Hail the Conservatives

As the noted musician Lou Reed once wrote, “This is no time for celebration. This is not time for political
speech. This is a time for action, because the future’s within reach.” For those of you who supported Clinton, Kennedy
in the background, and speaking of “a new Democratic party.” This strategy clearly succeeded as 58% of those polled (according
to an ABC exit poll) want lower taxes and fewer government services, yet only 36% are in favor of more
government. Even with these statistics, Clinton still managed to pull it out. This is because the Bush campaign was abysmal,
and his domestic policy was (despite his rhetoric) more government. He increased not only taxes, but regulations on business, and
government spending, as well. The previous sentence is a liberal’s fantasy. If we’d had a liberal in the White House,
the country would be in a different state.

For those of us who will make up the loyal opposition for the next four years, let us also start
working, keep the faith, and plant the seeds for the exciting rejuvenation of our movement. Speaking of movements, liberalism is
dead. Maybe being a Democrat is back in style, but being a liberal is not. Clinton and Gore won by
masquerading as moderates, hiding prominent liberals like Jesse Jackson and Ted Kennedy in the background, and speaking of “a new
Democratic party.” This strategy clearly succeeded as 58% of those polled (according to an ABC exit poll) want lower taxes
and fewer government services, yet only 36% are in favor of more government. Even with these statistics, Clinton still managed
to pull it out. This is because the Bush campaign was abysmal, and his domestic policy was (despite his rhetoric)
more government. He increased not only taxes, but regulations on business, and government spending, as well. The previous sentence is
a liberal’s fantasy. If we’d had a liberal in the White House, the country would be in a different state.

See "Nest" on page 9
