THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

Ukrop Leads Davidson to Season Beyond Dreams

By Bruce Balestier

“Coming out of high school,” says Davidson senior striker Rob Ukrop, “I just wanted to play Division I soccer and
play against good programs.” Hard as it is to believe now, there were those who said he didn’t have the
talent to do it. But Davidson coach Charlie Slagle was not one of them. Seventy-six goals and 184 points later,
Ukrop is the leading scorer in the nation, a likely first-team All-American, and a candidate for the Hermann Award (college
soccer’s Heisman Trophy). He is also largely responsible for Davidson’s move into the nation’s soccer elite.

After scoring 14 goals during his sophomore season in 1989, Ukrop came into his own in 1990. He scored 22
goals and had 56 points to finish third in the country in scoring, and was named second-team All-American. And not
surprisingly, Ukrop’s coming-of-age coincided with that of his team. On the strength of wins over Duke and South Carolina, the
1990 Wildcats finished 15-7-2 and just missed out on an NCAA Tournament bid. Naturally, then, expectations were high for the
1991 team. But after Ukrop was lost for the season with a broken leg in just the second game of
the year, his value to the team was demonstrated irrefutably. Without Ukrop, that team had everything it needed except a
reliable finisher; Davidson played competitive games with every team on its schedule, but scored just 20 goals in 20 games
and finished 8-10-2.

Senior defender Craig Omli says that the day he found out that Ukrop was going to redshirt and return this
fall for his senior season stands out in his mind. “When I found out that he was going to be
a part of my senior season, I knew it was going to be a special one,” Omli said.

And it has been special. Ukrop frequently has been marked by two or more defenders this year — senior midfielder
Matt Spear said, “I don’t think there’s any defender in college soccer that can shut him down one on one”
— but still has scored 31 goals and had 72 points. Double and triple-teamed by N.C. State defenders throughout Sunday’s
tournament quarterfinal game, Ukrop still managed to score the winning goal in sudden-death overtime.

The team, with its big gun back, has scored 88 goals in 26 games. “I feel like, if anything, that’s
what I’ve been able to deliver to this team, is that mentality that we are a goal-scoring team,” Ukrop said.

Spear says that Ukrop is a “man among boys,” and it’s really true. He likes to post up in the
middle of the field about 20 yards out and receive the ball with his back to the goal. He uses
his strong lower body to shield the ball from defenders, and turns the ball with remarkable speed; once he gets
loose, he has a cannon shot with either foot. In addition, his skills at redirecting the ball are superior.

More than anything, though, Ukrop has a well-developed imagination for scoring. Says Slagle, “He never stops amazing me. Like his
bicycle kick in the UNCC game [in the first round of the NCAA Tournament]. He doesn’t do those in practice.
I see him in the summer with camps and he doesn’t do those or doesn’t like to do those. That’s
what we needed in that game, and he comes through with a bicycle to score a goal.”

But there’s even more to Ukrop the player than that. “I feel like, as a player, I play hard,” Ukrop
said, “and that’s what separates me from a lot of players — that I have that intensity and that desire
to win and I try to make things happen.”

Spear tells the story of how he learned of that intensity firsthand. “One time in practice,” he says, “I set
out to stop him, and he knocked me off the ball so hard I separated my shoulder and was out
for a month.”

For Ukrop, the soccer field is a place of transformation. A self-described “shy person” off the field, he is flamboyant
on it. A typical Ukrop game involves a pratfall or two, some playful banter with opponents and referees, and numerous
attempts to incite the crowd to riot. Omli says that Ukrop annoys him by always running away from his teammates
and toward the crowd after scoring a goal; “the soccer field is definitely his element,” he says.

That being the case, it’s only natural that Ukrop’s career continue a while longer, and his options are fairly open.
A newly-developed professional league in the Southeast has shown a lot of interest, but Slagle has helped to line up
some tryouts with professional teams in Germany, and the pair will head there in January. “I’d like to give it
a try,” Ukrop says, “because it’s not something that everybody gets the opportunity to do. Who knows what the cards
hold for my future?”

History

Continued from page 6

certainly come a long and admirable way. Sources used to compile this crash course include Mary Beaty’s A History of
Davidson College, C.R. Shaw’s Davidson College, the College Archives, and Dr. C.G. Davidson.

10th year anniversary of women in the Southern Conference

Introducing

Louise Young Ausman

The Garden

Drawing For Nerf Soccer Balls Saturday Afternoon!

Antiques

Art And Ornamental Accessories For Your Garden And Garden Room

* Decorative Antiques & Accessories
* Persian Rugs
* Specialty Dolls
