10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

Golf Team Concludes Fall Slate, Awaits Return of Coble, Raber
By Chris Mann

The Davidson golf team recently completed its fall season, and although the scores weren’t always pretty, Coach Gordon Mietz maintains
a positive outlook for the extremely young ‘Cats.

The first tournament of the season took place in picturesque Maggie Valley, North Carolina, and the scores suggested that a
solid season would follow. Junior Will McDaniel, last year’s MVP and the obvious leader of the senior-less ‘Cats this season,
led the team with strong rounds of 76 and 75 respectively. Sophomore Hal Fogelman contributed a 77 and an 80.
McDaniel’s rounds were good enough to place him seventh in the individual competition, while the Wildcats’ overall score placed them
ninth in a field of 12 teams. Although Mietz wasn’t enthralled by his team’s performance, the first tournament proved that
the ‘Cats had untapped potential.

In early October, the team participated in Carson-Newman’s Persimmon Hill Invitational in Saluda, South Carolina. McDaniel again led the way,
shooting 78s for both rounds of the tourney. Davidson finished 11th among 14 teams, and didn’t show as much improvement
as Coach Mietz had hoped.

The third tournament of the fall season was the 13th Annual Hargrove B. Davis Memorial in Buies Creek, N.C., which
pitted the Davidson golfers against rough competition from the likes of Duke, N.C. State, and Virginia Tech. McDaniel shot an
outstanding 74 in the first round, and although he faltered a bit with a second-round 86, his scores still topped
the Davidson club.

McDaniel was unable to compete in Davidson’s last tournament, the Gardner-Webb Fall Invitational, because he had already missed too much
class due to the busy fall schedule. McDaniel’s absence paved the way for freshman Slade Worley to emerge as a
top golfer. Worley shot 79 and 80 for the two days, and although he played in only two tournaments during
the season, he broke the 80 barrier twice. Mietz says that Worley “has the potential to play in the low
to mid 70s on a consistent basis with the help of more tournament experience.”

The team will undergo a major facelift before the upcoming spring season, and there’s some reason for excitement. Junior co-captains
Will Coble, the team MVP as a freshman, and Mark Raber will return for the second semester after studying abroad
in Europe. Mietz thinks these two ought to be a big help, provided their skills haven’t suffered too much from
the time off. McDaniel, however, plans on studying marine biology overseas this spring, and his talent and experience will be
sorely missed.

The spring offers up five tournaments for Davidson, and the fact that two of them occur during Spring Break ensures
that the golfers won’t be forced to miss too much class. Mietz believes that “there are three or four other
freshmen who can help the team and who look good in practice, but the real test will be seeing how
they can do in real tourneys.”

Women’s Tennis Finishes Fall Season at Brown Invitational
By Matt Pitzer

The idea of getting up at 5:30 in the morning and playing tennis all day until as late as 10
p.m. probably would not appeal to many people, but it is exactly what women’s tennis coach Caroline Price wanted for
her team during its fall season. That is what she got at the Brown University Invitational, the toughest of four
tournaments Davidson entered this fall. Facing teams such asNational power University of Washington, the team finished an unofficial fifth. Official
team finishes are not kept because of NCAA rules concerning the number of matches a team can play.

“We had unbelievable opportunities to play,” Price said. “That’s what the fall season is really about. It is accelerated learning,
that’s what I call it. It is a zillion tennis balls a weekend.”

Davidson finished the fall season by winning its own invitational against East Tennessee State University and UNC-Greensboro the weekend of
October 30. The Wildcats’ first tourney of the season was at ETSU against weaker Division I and lower teams. Davidson
players wound up facing each other in the finals. The other meet was at James Madison University against several Division
I schools.

Now in its third scholarship season, the women’s team hopes to use its successful fall season as a springboard for
success when the traditional season begins in February and to improve on last year’s 13th place finish in the Southeast
region. “We competed against some stronger teams,” Price said, “and that we did land some wins, that’s a good signal
for us. We hope to break into the top 10.”

See "Tennis" on page 11

---

Soccer Continued from page 1

“It was nerve-wracking,” he said, “When it hit the post I just prayed it was going to go in.” The
Davidson players piled on top of Sampers after the kick, and were followed by a large group of Davidson fans
who had vaulted a fence to reach the field. When the celebration moved to the sideline, the crowd put Deegan
on its shoulders, and serenaded him with a chant of “Dee-gan, Dee-gan.”

The Wildcats’ victory was retribution for a 4-3 regular-season loss to the 49ers, in which starters Preston Yarborough, Phelps Sprinkle,
and Ben Hayes did not play. In that game, UNCC used its speed on the wings to fashion a two-goal
lead, and withstood a late Davidson charge. Davidson defenders were noticeably more successful in containing those wings, especially freshman Mac
Cozier, on Sunday.

Davidson took the lead first 13:25 into the game on an aggressive play by senior midfielder Andy Schwab, who, according
to coach Charlie Slagle, played “the best game of his career.” Schwab intercepted a pass in the midfield and dribbled
down the right side before crossing the ball to the far post for Hayes, who finished it off. Both Ukrop
and Schwab had near-misses hit the post in the second half, but the score remained 1-0 until the 49ers struck
at 75:53. Craig Appleby took a pass from Shawn Kowalewski on the right side, settled it, and beat Deegan.

See "Soccer" on page 11

---

Columbia Sportswear Company

Buy one, get two free. Buy a system. The Columbia Interchange System, to be exact. Take the Bugaboo, for example.
The Bergundtal Cloth outershell is great for spring showers and the Alpen Fleece liner takes the chill out of fall.
Combine the two and you're set for all that winter throws at you. Three jackets, one price. $119 at OUTDOOR:
Exton

---

Saturday, November 21. 8am-5pm at LAKE LUBE 19000 Statesville Road/Hwy. 21 Cornelius, N.C. 28031 (704) 892-9834 Mon.-Fri. 8am-6pm; Sat. 8am-3pm

SERVING ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE AND MARINE LUBRICATION NEEDS.

Statesville Rd /Hwy. 21 77 3/4 mile Cornelius
