THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS, MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

JYAer Recounts Year in Pyatigorsk, Russia
By Ashley Cockrill
September 17, 1992

Well, here I am back at Davidson, and it almost feels like I never left (with the exception of the
fact that I don't recognize half of the people). I spent my junior year abroad in Pyatigorsk, Russia, and in
December 1991, I wanted to write a short summary of what was going on in the area of Russia where
I was and send it to the Davidsonian. Since our infamous former editor of the newspaper expressed an interest in
receiving articles from students other than “overrun touristy Europe” (or something like that), and since the events of the former
Soviet Union seemed interesting to the rest of the world at the time, I decided to write about my frustration
with the situation there. However, due to circumstances beyond my control, my article was not submitted until now, the fall
of my senior year.

December 14, 1991

I’m now on my way to Moscow—a 29-hour train ride from Pyatigorsk. Since the Aeroflot in our region doesn’t allow
us to fly unless we pay in dollars (foreigners must be registered to live here in the U.S.S.R. for more
than a year in order to fly for rubles), we’ve become accustomed to long train rides. It doesn’t really matter,
though, because there’s no gas for planes right now anyway.

Two other American girls and I have been studying here in Pyatigorsk, Russia, for a little over three months now.
I celebrated my twentieth birthday two days ago, and when one of the girls asked me if I felt any
older, I replied, “I feel like this semester has put about ten years on my life.”

Pyatigorsk is located between the Black and Caspian Seas, 1000 miles almost directly south of Moscow. (This is the third
year in a row that Davidson has had a student from Pyatigorsk). We’re in the northern Caucasus Mountains, probably the
most dangerous area of the “Soviet Union” right now. The Chechen autonomous republic’s capital, Grozny, is five hours southwest, and
the republic of Georgia is directly below us (where there is currently unrest in the capital of Tbilisi and also
in western Georgia). Armenia and Azerbaijan, southeast and southwest respectively, are not on friendly terms. Basically, all these areas are
“anti-Russian” because they all want their independence from the “Soviet Union” and they feel that Russia is going to try
and take them over when a new Union is created.

It is impossible to live here without constantly having politics as the main topic of conversation. I’ve met people (Russians)
who say they couldn’t care less about politics—all they want is to live better. Politics is everything here. The reason
there isn’t food here—politics. The reason there’s no gas for planes—politics. The reason things are so backwards here in general—politics.
It’s mind-boggling what a naive American I’ve been. Some of the stories I’ve heard are just incredible—about how the system
here has caused people such suffering. Why just the other day, my Russian professor for grammar told me that in
Moscow, meat trucks were being stopped so that the meat could be taken out, have gasoline poured on it and
have it destroyed. This seemed highly unlikely to me, but then, this same professor told me that, with his own
eyes, he saw a man on a tractor go over his crop of potatoes, intentionally. The conclusion he came to
is that the government is purposely stopping the transportation and production of food to the people to keep them from
thinking about the political situation here. If the government supplies the people with just enough food to get by, then
they are constantly concerned with this and not always with what’s taking place in the Kremlin. I was just flabbergasted
after hearing this, but I’ve come to the conclusion that here the potential of corruption is beyond anything I ever
conceived of earlier.

Most of the people I’ve met here are supportive of Boris Yeltsin. Of course, he seems like the most likely
candidate for helping this country and its people out of the biggest rut they’ve ever been in. But the thing
is, he’s about the only person available to have faith in (Gorbachev’s not even considered anymore), and what these people
need more than anything right now is someone to have faith in. Of course, there also exist people who think
things will only get worse with Yeltsin—like my history professor here (who, I’m convinced, is still a die-hard Communist). He
might be right about Yeltsin not being the man to fix these problems, but after he told us several times
in class what strong, smart, humanitarian men Lenin and Stalin were, I think he’s the naive one. There’s no going
back to Communism now, not after all that’s happened here.

I just finished reading some articles my mother sent me about the fear of great hunger here this winter. Of
course, I look at it differently after hearing stories like the one I told earlier. But the concrete truth is
that there is nothing in the stores. I think it’s much worse in Moscow and Leningrad right now than in
southern Russia. We still have fruits at the markets because they are grown nearby. But in the stores, honestly speaking,
there is only bread, and not even that the whole day. The one constant thing since we’ve been here has
been big jugs of apple juice. Two weeks ago we were told that there soon wouldn’t even be that, and
right now, there is none. Nobody knows why. Nobody knows anything. Or maybe someone knows, and he/she is just lying.
On those special days when butter, eggs and milk are brought in, there are always lines. There is no cheese
nor sugar at all. Most everything has to be bought with ration cards (which haven’t been used since war-times), except
at the market, and everything thereis really expensive for people here (with the exception of those who have American dollars
or Deutsche Marks). When we arrived here in September, the exchange rate at the bank was 32 rubles to the
dollar. Right now, it is 90, and in about another week it will be even higher. (When I left in
July '92 the rate was 130 at the bank and around 150 on the street.) The inflation rate is unbelievable.
Unfortunately, people’s salaries aren’t going up with the inflation rate, so the ruble is worth less and less every day,
and it’s making it harder and harder for people to get by. It’s going to be hard to go back
to America and realize that things are expensive. Right now, we Americans here are living on Monopoly money. We’re going
to Moscow to see if we can get tickets to Germany to spend Christmas there. It’s especially hard to travel
out of the country right now. The people at the ticket windows will probably tell us there aren’t any tickets,
and then we’ll have to bribe someone. Nothing really gets done around here unless there is a bribe involved. I
know this happens in the United States, too, but it still completely surprises me that this is reality here. My
mother asked how I would describe the Russian character. Immediately, I thought of scenes in the post office and other
government offices—rude, snippy women who jump down your throat if you simply ask them a question, or worse yet, ask
them to repeat what they said. But goodness, who could blame them? They’ve got terrible jobs with low pay, and
after a hard day, they have to shop for food (and everyone can imagine what all that entails), deal with
the husband and the children, cook and clean up, and start all over again the next day. Sometimes, the complete
opposite happens—we’ll be on the street, someone will ask us something, realize we’re foreigners, and immediately invite us over for
dinner. When in someone’s home the hospitality overflows. Once you get to know people, they will bend over backwards to
help you. It’s interesting how it’s a complete paradox. I think the most depressing thing that’s happened to me since
I’ve been here was just the other night. My Russian roommate and I were in our dorm room watching the
news. We’d just learned that Yeltsin had made plans to set up a new Union with Ukraine, Belorussia, and possibly
Armenia, and that by not conferring with Gorbachev, still the acting president of the U.S.S.R., he acted “unconstitutionally.” As if
anything here is done by the law! Anyway, it was especially frustrating to my roommate because here we were, two
girls about the same age, sitting on the same bed, who are from different countries and live such different lives.
She had a hard time believing that there even exists a country where the political situation is stable and people
are not constantly worrying about whether or not there will be food in the stores the next day. What also
amazed her is the amount of freedom we as Americans possess. It’s really unbelievable the amount of bureaucratic garbage they
must go through in order to travel abroad. I, for one, can’t imagine being denied the right to travel the
world if I had the chance to, i.e., enough money to do so. It may sound like I’m not happy
here—that’s not true. I’ve made a lot of close Russian friends already, and I’m already planning on returning to beautiful
Pyatigorsk in the future. I know I’ve chosen the most interesting time by far to be here. This place is
a real mess right now—a big frustrating mess—for everyone here. I know America has its problems, but it hasn’t taken
me long to understand how much we really take for granted in our daily lives there. I’ve already had some
unforgettable experiences here—think of the stories I’ll be able to tell my children!

Soccer Continued from page 12

we got ahead.” The win raised the Wildcats’ record to 5-2-2, 2-0 in Southern Conference play. They fell completely out
of both national polls after losing to UNCC last week, but could jump right back in with a win Tuesday
in Raleigh against #10 N.C. State. UNCC, with the win over Davidson and a tie with then-#5 South Carolina, entered
the Soccer America poll at #15.
