THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

More Jugglers in Class of ’96
Courtesy College Relations

The second annual Davidson College freshman juggling survey revealed that a slightly higher percentage of the class of 1996 can
juggle than last year’s entering freshmen. As part of freshmen check-in at the College Union, 333 freshmen were questioned on
whether or not they could juggle. Those who replied positively were asked to prove it with three bean bags.

32% of the 169 male freshmen polled juggled (54 total) and 9% of the 164 women (15 total), for an
overall total of 21% of the Class of 1996. Last year’s totals were 27% for men, 9% for women, and
18% overall. The poll was conducted by Bill Giduz, Davidson’s director of news and photography, who is also editor of
Juggler’s World magazine and instructor of the Davidson phys ed course in juggling.

Presbyterian Missionary to Speak on Central America

On Thursday, September 10th, Derek Coursen will visit the campus to speak on Central America. Coursen is currently a missionary
for the Presbyterian Church (USA) and is returning from a year in El Salvador where his work included investigation for
a human rights organization and work with the Lutheran Church. For the last five years, he has lived and worked
in Nicaragua and El Salvador. He will return in October to Guatemala City. His experiences in Central America have included
writing for a magazine in Nicaragua, leading and translating for American delegations, living with a group of El Salvadoran refugees
in Honduras, and accompanying them as they crossed the border to El Salvador. Coursen will speak and answer questions at
7:00 pm in the 900 Room on September 10th.

Noted Author Robert Coles to Speak

Dr. Robert Coles, a widely published social scientist and Harvard psychiatrist, will speak in Love Auditorium on Thursday, September 10th
at 4:00 pm as the Joseph Henry and John MacDonald Lecturer. The lecture is entitled “The Spiritual Life of Children”
and admission is free. Coles' work has led him to march with civil rights activists, live with migrant workers, and
interview children about God. He teaches courses at Harvard medical, business, and law schools and also instructs courses at its
institute of government while still finding time to teach Harvard’s most popular undergraduate course “Literature of Social Reflection.”

Coles was an undergraduate at Harvard and earned a medical degree from Columbia University and is trained in child psychiatry
and pediatrics. He has written over 50 books and 1,100 articles, reviews, and essays in various newspapers, magazines, and journals.
The Spiritual Life of Children was first published in 1990 and is the latest in a series of books begun
in the early 1960s. This and the others are all narratives, placing interviews with children in the context of the
subject at hand. In writing this book, Coles interviewed over 500 Jewish, Islamic, Christian, Native American, and agnostic children between
8-12 years old worldwide. Coles described this book as the culmination of over 30 years of psychological and psychiatric speculation
about how children view and understand the world.

Big Sister / Little Sister

For those interested in having a little sister in the Davidson community, there is an informational meeting on Tuesday, September
8th at 7 pm in the Morrison Room of the College Union. This year there will be many events and
activities sponsored by the Big Sister/Little Sister program such as sleep-overs, Halloween and Christmas parties, and cultural and educational programs.
There is no greater...Joy or feeling of accomplishment than shaping a young girl’s life by being her role model, friend,
and confidant. If you cannot attend Tuesday’s meeting, please call Jenny Hauser (-6309), Jenn Palazzolo (-6309), Kelly Murray (-6058), or
T.K. Tibby (-6011).

Cable Wells Begins Tenure as Admissions Dean
By Meg Davis

Nancy Cable Wells, the new Dean of Admission and Financial Aid, brings to Davidson extensive experience in several aspects of
campus life and administration. Davidson will also gain national attention through her work on the Washington D.C.-based Council for the
Advancement and Support of Education.

Cable Wells began her tenure at Davidson on July 6 in the recently renovated Grey House. In addition to her
work as Dean of Admission, Cable Wells will be representing the nine-state District III on a CASE advisory commission on
student recruitment and retention. She will be required to meet with the seven other national CASE representatives twice this year
to assist in developing workbooks and resource books for admissions professionals. Topics for the commission will be financial aid and
the discrepancies between available funds and increasing requests for financial aid. Effective and ineffective methods of student recruitment and enrollment
management will also be considered by the commission.

She also taught three sessions on student recruitment and enrollment management this past summer at a CASE conference held at
American University. Two of her sessions, on recruiting minority students and the effective usage of volunteers, have particular pertinence for
Davidson, according to Cable Wells.

Coming to Davidson from her position as Guilford College’s dean of students and vice president for student development and enrollment
management, Cable Wells had tremendous success with minority recruitment on a five-year plan. “We met or exceeded our goals for
African-American recruitment during that time, ending up with 10 percent representation in our freshman class,” she said.

In terms of Davidson’s recruitment of African-American students, Cable Wells feels it must be a clear effort on the part
of the entire Davidson community. She is also asking for her staff to be vigilant at renewing African-American recruitment in
the Charlotte area and at increasing the number of prospects, the names coming to Davidson through the college board. A
publication on the African-American experience at Davidson and an increase in financial aid opportunities are her other ideas for attracting
African-American students. Based on demographics, Cable Wells thinks a three-year recruitment plan would be more appropriate for Davidson since they
are currently recruiting the class of 1997. A three-year plan would take Davidson through the year.

See "Wells" on page 4

ROBERT COLES
Harvard University
"The Spiritual and Moral Life of Children"
Thursday, September 10th, 10 P.M.

MAMMA MIA
Pizzeria & Ristorante Italian
Buffet Luncheon Buffet $3.75 per person
All NEW Dinner Buffets
Serving Beer & Wine

PIZZA SPECIAL
$3.00 Off Any Large Pizza
$2.00 Off Any Medium Pizza
2418 S. Broad St. Mooresville 663-1191
DINE IN-TAKE OUT-DELIVERY

"Who and What is Robert Coles? Humanist, political activist, psychiatrist, minstrel, wandering storyteller, mystic, wise man, poet, dissenter, and yes,
I'll use the word, secular saint."
-Andrew Greeley, Chicago Tribune

1992-1993 Joseph Henry and John Macdonald Wearn Lecture Series

$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM
MOVIES AT THE LAKE
892-3841

SINGLE WHITE FEMALE 3:25, 7:05, 9:25
HONEY, I BLEW UP THE KID 3:05, 5:05, 7:05, 9:05
DEATH BECOMES HER 3:30, 7:00, 9:30
A LEAGUE OF THEIR OWN 3:10, 5:10, 7:30, 9:30
THE DISCOVERY 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25

Sponsored by Committee of Public Lectures
