4 THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor

The Davidsonian

SEAN LIND - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CHRIS HOOD - Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
LAURA DENNIS - Ass't Production Manager

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
BILL BRYAN - Ass't Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

A Dream Realized

From the Davidson Soccer Media Guide, September, 1992:
“On May 8, when it was announced that Davidson College would be hosting the 1992 NCAA Division I Men’s Soccer Championships, the athletic department started buzzing with one particular question: With the most experienced soccer team in Davidson history taking the field this fall, what are the chances of the Wildcats playing in soccer’s “Final Four” on their home turf? Well, since the ‘Cats have never made the 28-team tournament field and have never finished higher than 21st in the national polls, a spot among this season’s top four would be stretching it.”

From the Charlotte Observer, November 30, 1992:
“It was a day in which teamwork counted more than talent, and doing things the hard way paid off more handsomely than being the hometown favorite.”
“Davidson’s soccer team marched onto N.C. State’s Method Road soccer field Sunday afternoon and emerged, more than two hours and two overtimes later, the improbable 1-0 victor, bound for the NCAA soccer championship final four.”

You gotta believe.

Letters

Bennett Questions Athletic Department's Basketball Emphasis

To the Editor,

Recently Terry Holland wrote a letter to the Davidson alumni concerning the basketball team. He reported that in order to keep the basketball program at the division one level at least 2000 season tickets must be sold. So far fans have only purchased 200 or so tickets this year. He wanted to know what would make the purchase of season tickets attractive to alumni.

The first thing troubling me about this article were the words “athletics at Davidson” and “basketball team” being used synonymously. There are twenty intercollegiate teams at Davidson, eleven men’s and ten women’s, basketball being only one of them.

Secondly, any alumni knows that with the construction of Belk Arena that there is no such thing as a sold-out basketball game. Back in the days of Johnston Gym a seat was hard to come by and therefore a season ticket was valuable. Although our facility is state of the art for play, the huge space takes away from the old spirit found in the wood walls of Johnston Gym.

The third trouble spot was the statement that perhaps Davidson should move to division three competition in light of the amount of money needed to fund such a program. This could be terribly unfair to the teams already having proven their ability to compete at the division one level. And, if it costs so much to run a division one basketball team, maybe the players could live without the plethora of paraphernalia they acquire every season.

Minutes after reading the letter, I trampled two identical basketball guides (one for me and one for my roommate since I never see her I guess) at my door and found an ad in the Charlotte Observer for season tickets to Davidson Basketball. More wasted money as far as I can see. Any student knows that our school colors are red and black and approximately what the enrollment is without attending an athletic event. The ad in the Observer reminded me of astory I heard about a season ticket selling campaign where not one season ticket was sold. What was Terry Holland brought here to do, promote basketball or direct athletics? The suggestion that I make to him and his staff is to promote the successful athletic teams and carry that spirit into Belk Arena instead of forcing the basketball program down our throats.

Sincerely,
Jill Bennett '94

Bickers Unhappy With Coverage

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year.

Advertising

To the Editor,

As co-captain of the varsity diving team, I was distressed by the lack of coverage of our first meet versus Virginia Tech in October. Since then, The Davidsonian covered that meet and the Howard meet in the space of a few obviously pathetic paragraphs. This is the second year of our varsity status, and with all of the recent hype about Davidson sports, particularly soccer, one would think that all sports would be considered valued enough to print in the college newspaper. The Davidsonian editors feel, however, that the varsity swimming and diving teams are not. So far this year, the varsity swimming and diving teams have had four meets, and only two have been poorly covered.

As a senior, an athlete, and a hard-working Davidson student, I share with my teammates in feeling betrayed and belittled by the lack of respect we have been given by the paper. If no reporter can cover the meets, please tell me and I will make sure an article is written. I believe it is not my job to hound The Davidsonian. This is what it has come to, though. The sports editor has a job to do. I believe under his title, he is obliged to cover all sports. It has angered me, my coaches, and all of my teammates. We practice five days a week, represent Davidson in sporting events, and then go unnoticed by the college voice, The Davidsonian. I hope my letter will not go unnoticed as well.

Curtis Bickers '93

Pithy Irreverence... Can't You See I'm Studying?

This article is a waste of time. I'm in the library, not doing my work. Instead, I'm thinking of the top ten favorite pastimes of students in the library (besides studying, of course). Here goes:

1. There's nail biting/finger picking. Often accompanied by its friend, finger watching. It's a sad state of affairs when your fingernails are more interesting than the book you're reading.
2. Sleeping. There's a plethora of styles and techniques. There's sitting in the carrel, head on hand, trying-to-look-like-I'm-studying nap; the balcony, feet propped on footrest, crick-in-neck special; the hunched over forward, head in book drooling; and the boldest: sprawled out between the rows, crashed, making carpet patterns on your cheek.
3. Staring out the window. Which usually leads to the above. Either that, or you realize how sad it is you're trapped in the library on a nice day and go outside and play in the leaves.
4. Laps. Go to the bathroom; get a drink. Swing by the newspapers, past the Rhodes Scholars, take a right at the draconian...