THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992 — 5

Premedical Society Speaker Calls For Changes In Today's Medical Schools

Continued from page 4

By Jeff Oller

On Wednesday, April 15, the Davidson Premedical Society hosted Dr. Robert Sabalis, Dean of Admissions at the University of South
Carolina at Columbia. Sabalis spoke about “changes in the medical education of premedical students and the evaluation of students.”

Sabalis started by making clear the fact that today’s premedical students are guinea pigs to be used in the changing
educational practices in medical schools until the medical schools settle upon a standard method and ideology of teaching. Sabalis spoke
at length about the Flexner Report and its relevance to contemporary medicine. The Flexner Report was written and published by
Abraham Flexner, a medical scientist, in 1910 in an evaluation of the medical schools of that period. Much of what
was said in this report is, indeed, contemporary, he said. For instance, one-third of all medical schools were and are
inadequate, he said. Sabalis asked the question, “can the Flexnerian model work today?” He pointed out that the advent of
computers and the sheer amount of fact involved in medicine precludes effective fact teaching. Sabalis said that every doctor in
America will have a computer in their office. As a response, several medical schools are taking steps to train students
in the use of computers as they apply to medicine.

Sabalis then spoke about the innovation of teaching clinical problem-solving skills in small group settings because medicine, itself, is the
practice of clinical problem-solving. He pointed out that the advances of medicine have led to a shift to an emphasis
in outpatient care. Advances in medicine have led to a general decrease in the time a patient needs to recover.
He spoke of the Association of American Medical Colleges, and its 1980’s report on 21st-century physicians. One of the points
in the report, he said, is that “medical education ought to be general education.” The report identified three reasons to
support this idea. First, students need to be educated to understand patients as people. The second was the fact that
60% of all patients walk in the door with some sort of psychological problem like nervousness, depression, anxiety, or fear.
The third reason was the fact that today’s doctors are deficient in responding to the needs of the continuity of
care (the idea that care stops after the patient is no longer in the hospital).

Sabalis said that medical students need to be broad-based. “Present Ph.D.s are specialists in one field,” he said. For example,
he said, a podiatrist knows nothing about back ailments and vice-versa. He then introduced the idea of a vertical curriculum.
“A vertical curriculum is one in which the students take some of the same kind of courses year after year.
For instance, medical ethics, substance abuse, nutrition, and clinical correlations are all examples of a vertical curriculum course-load.” He said,
“medical students have been allowed to become too passive,” in that medical schools have slipped into a mode of mass
learning taught by established professionals which, subsequently, inhibits any advancement in thinking and reasoning skills.

Teachers, he said, should challenge students to answer questions that require thought and reasoning as they nurture life-long learning skills.
Sabalis spoke about the concept of using standardized (pseudo) patients to train students. For example, an actor will fake an
ailment and evaluate the student as the student conducts the examination. This allows the standardized patient to comment upon the
student’s attitude and consideration towards the patient. A method of testing he talked about was the Objective Structured Clinical Evaluation.
This involved fifteen-minute stops at each of several stations to test the student’s ability to be quick, responsive, and correct.
To conclude, Sabalis said, “the Flexnerian report no longer holds,” in that medical education and technology, with the advent of
computers, have changed too much to support such a dated examination.

Presidential Candidate To Discuss Strategy At Davidson

By Kevin Miller

On Sunday, May 3, Davidson’s Hodson Hall will hold one of eight American Public Radio “Presidential Choices” programs produced by
Minnesota Public Radio. The event will present Charles Ogletree, a Harvard University Law School professor, as a “hypothetical” midwestern Democratic
candidate who will ask real-life political advisors how he, as a candidate, should deal with welfare reform. The strategy session
will be completely ad lib, and will attempt to mirror the political scene as of two days before the North
Carolina primary.

The 90-minute show will start at 1 p.m. in Hodson Hall, and, after an hour of planning between Ogletree and
his “henchmen,” audience members and callers from around the country can ask their own questions of the candidate and his
committee. Tickets are being sold at the Davidson College Visitors Center at (704) 892-2447, and the program will air live
on Charlotte’s WFAE radio, 90.7 FM, as well as on 135 APR affiliates.

From the Archives: Towner Blackstock

Self-Selection, 1970: Never Again

My father and his brother-in-law were both members of Beta Theta Pi fraternity back in the sixties when they were
students here. As a child, I remember seeing the fraternity magazines in the mail, and the plaques on the wall,
but I never heard much about it. My mother, long active in her sorority as a national officer, constantly spoke
about Phi Mu, but Dad remained strangely, and sadly, silent. And although I grew to know the story, I never
really felt the pain my father and uncle felt until Dad’s twenty-fifth college reunion. In his face, I saw, as
he stood in my fraternity house with my brothers, a sadness for something he could never...“I am very bitter,” he
said, “that I don’t have a house to come back to.” You see, a notion called ‘self-selection’ served to close
Beta Theta Pi at Davidson, the organization they loved so dearly and where their fondest college memories lay. After seeing
the sadness and even resentment that remains even twenty years later for them, I am pained to hear renewed calls
for the reinstitution of that well-meaning but outdated and ill-conceived system. Although self-selection may have fit the immediate needs and
desires of the turbulent year 1970, it proved to be a detriment to the college in that original form over
time, and certainly does not meet the needs of the Davidson of today.

Davidson President Sam Spencer in 1970 made a speech to the student body outlining the state of the college, and
in particular the social structure of the then all-male institution. He described the division that had developed on the campus:
“at meal times and in the evenings, the fraternity heads north from the residence halls to Fraternity Court; the independent
minority heads south to the Union (where the cafeteria was located before Vail Commons).” At a university with a large
independent group and viable social alternatives, Dr. Spencer pointed out, that would be of little consequence, but at Davidson the
small size and all-male structure left the few non-fraternity men with no social life. Furthermore, he contended, “the impact which
rejection has on an individual who fails to get a bid... can be massive.” And so Spencer suggested a new
social structure, organized “as to minimize the chances of rejection.”

Tarazona said, “The Shining Path, often torturing their victims to death, represents the most brutal, bloody and cruel of all
the world’s terrorist organizations,” she maintains. The Shining Path is comparable to Cambodia’s Khmer Rouge in that the Khmer worked
towards a total remake of Cambodia’s society through the most violent of means. Indeed, Tarazona believes that The Shining Path
has gained control of nearly a third of Peru. The Shining Path, she reports, is not contained to Peru. There
has been recent evidence of activity in Argentina and off-shoots in Bolivia, where its coca community is particularly vulnerable to
the message of the terrorist group. Tarazona proposes a broad-based strategy to be implemented by the Peruvian government with the
cooperation of other nations. The Peruvian government, she believes, must address the issues at hand rather than simply try to
stomp the insurgency out with brute force. “Peru is locked in a death struggle between democracy and a brutal totalitarian
system. The outcome of this struggle will affect the political stability, the development and the popular welfare not just of
Peru, but of a great part of South America. I have grave doubts that Peru can win the struggle by
itself,” she said. Although she made it clear that she was honored to be considered an expert in her field
and to be invited to speak before the House, she was nervous over her open condemnation of The Shining Path
because of its deeply vindictive nature and the subsequent threat to her life.

Hasty Continued from page 2

Madison Presbyterian Church in Madison, Georgia, located about an hour east of Atlanta. He described the 200-member church, founded in
1821, as having “a rich history. I’m looking forward to ministering to and being involved in the lives of people
of all ages,” he said. During the interview, Hasty received a call from his wife, Sarah Thomas, a member of
the class of ’90, and when he sat down again, he smiled and added, “I’m not leaving Davidson empty-handed, you
know. I’m taking a graduate with me!”

Alcohol Continued from page 1

Dean Will Terry said, “It is essential to implement and fund the things called for in the introduction if the
alcohol policy is to be successful and the social climate is to be improved.” The Trustees agreed with this idea
and gave the administration the authorization it needs to pursue these actions. Terry also said that it will take the
efforts of all segments of the Davidson community to change the patterns of alcohol consumption on the Davidson campus. He
said, “This cannot be a one-office effort.”

Recognizing the benefits of my father’s fraternity (close friendship, leadership and social opportunities, intramural activities, and service functions), he proposed
a reworking of the fraternity structure where students could be assigned either by random lottery or by their individual choice
to an eating house. Fraternities and their bidding system would become a thing of the past. Some students supported this
plan, which carried overtones of the social equality movements of the sixties, and the trustees voted to adopt it. The
fraternities, riddled with divisions of opinion and financial debt, took the options they could. Two folded, two moved off campus,
four fraternities remained, and four lost their charters and became eating houses devoid of fraternity affiliation. One cannot say that
this plan had little student support, because the freedom of the early seventies almost demanded an open system like this
one. Yet many alumni, the majority of whom were fraternity men and the major contributors to the college, wrote angry
letters and refused to give any more to the college, some even writing the college out of their wills. Regardless,
one must admit that alumni may not have the insight of what is best for the campus. They did, perhaps,
have more foresight than the progressive Dr. Spencer did. Over the course of the decade and into the '80s, self-selection
changed. Fraternities would simply discourage...

See "Selection" on page 6
