THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

D. A. Thompson: Modest Stillness and Humility

"And Would It Have Been Worth it, After All?"

If ever I am to be remembered after I graduate from Davidson, I sincerely hope that those who knew me will think of me as a gifted romantic. Sadly, however, I am all too aware that such recollections will never be shared amongst my friends: when it comes to matters of the heart, I am, you see, the ultimate and reigning boob. I confess here that I am a high-ranking officer in the Dork Corps: always with a crush, often with the nerve, but never with the grace required. How often have I wished that I could manage my amorous affairs with the coolness of a big screen legend while I stammered out an invitation to dinner with the pointed articulation of a cartoon geek? If I were shy, I could pine away silently and long for my love, and no one would know the difference. Unfortunately, my penchant for extroversion makes such discretion impossible and I always manage to blow it.

Cursed in this manner, Davidson is no place for me. The number one rule of love here is much like that in poker: never show your hand. No matter how you may feel about a certain individual, a cool head and stony heart must be kept about at all times. I’m not berating the unwritten system, but I admit that I can never quite conform to it. So often have I sniffed potential romance and promptly routed it like quail into the path of a cocked and ready 12 gauge. Once, having managed to keep my cool on several dates with someone about whom I was absolutely mad, I made the mistake of saying what a pleasant time I had had the past few times we went out. The young lady then looked at me as if I had stalked her in a shopping mall and said curtly, “David, you’re really too gratuitous with your affections.” By the time my breath returned, her door was locked and I was self-conscious enough to feel the hair growing on my legs. Never before had a simple compliment been so perfectly demeaned. In a sentence, I went from her date to a gaudy and crass new man guilty of trying to impress through lavish overtipping. With one well-turned phrase, this previously delightful young woman had sent me away like undercooked fish. It wasn’t the first time that I had been awarded the top prize in college football, but it was without a doubt the most memorable.

Worse, though, are those episodes reeking of what could have been. Only once have I been so pathetically enamored that I could not muster the nerve to do anything about it. In high school, I was afflicted with a crush that would make even the most seasoned doter blush. My beloved was the center of my every thought. Inside I knew

Depth! Relevance! It's Never Really Dark These Days

I was out last night when the clock struck twelve. It wasn’t somber. Nothing brooded. The pasteurized moon was only a little on the down side of full, and nothing chilled my spine. I looked into the library from far away, and its windows glowed like a gigantic nightlight. I kept walking. “Hello,” I said to someone with books. “Hello,” I said to someone with beer. Collegiate experience unfolded around me unchanged. There is no witching hour anymore. Pumpkins don’t turn into coaches; coffin lids don’t creak. I passed the steeple clock and thought, “Five minutes after twelve. Good. The night is young.” And then missed the magic.

I missed huddling in my bed at night with the curtains vacuum-sealed against moonlight--sheets pulled up tighter than a hug beneath my chin and sometimes wrapped under and around me, too, in case floor monsters came up through the bed. Nights were ravenous. The buttons on my doorknobs would be pushed. Both of them. Even the one connected to my parents' room in case they were eaten first. I’d go to bed too late sometimes--too close to twelve--and lie there wrapped and waiting for the two long pointy fangs dangling above my pillow to plunge into my neck. Throat skin tingled. “He’s picking his spot,” I thought, “I just can never move.” In time I would wake up and in the light unlock my doors. Now I never lock them. I sleep a lot when the sun is up and have typed and typed beneath a full moon in the middle of the night and never looked behind me. That old fear was fun.

My friend Stewart down the street liked it so much that he decided his basement was haunted so he could be terrified even in the daytime. Soon my basement also became haunted. We used to meet sometimes outside and compare notes on the ghostly visions we had seen dancing on the doors of the downstairs guestroom, or in the utility room, or, most horribly, up, around, and sometimes right out through the opening leading to the crawl space underneath the house. That space was scary--a slice of dirty, bug-ridden night carved out beneath the noonday sun. And we sought it out. Once Stewart did the unthinkable. He crawled right through the hole and underneath it all, and I couldn’t even shake I was so scared. He never said a word, ever. I waited it must have been five epochal minutes before I broke loose and screamed and ran upstairs and frantically barked to my mother that Stewart had been eaten by the house.Mother was not so moved as I about the possibility of being digested; and she was on the phone. I ran outside and back inside and down and up the stairs and finally grabbed a whiffle bat and hesitantly commenced to rescue Stewart. The hole was so black. The underside of the house gurgled behind it like an expectant gullet. The bat went first. Then my head—and it was grabbed. Stewart laughed very hard about all the things I did in my pants. I died for a second there, or at least experienced all the terror requisite in the face of passing on. Stewart was older than me. And apparently, he had decided a little while back that basements weren’t really haunted; and even if they were, the risk involved would be well worth the pleasure gained from scaring me nigh to death. He had his fun, but the lasting thing was that since then basements, and all places at night or anytime, haven’t moved me like they once did. I guess it’s a good thing. Getting from the library to my room at night would be complicated by believing that I would be eaten along the way. But sometimes nights feel bland and I wish a vampire and a team of goblins might chase me—light out after me down Brady’s Alley and past the post office, across the tracks and ten years or so back down a road. For some little kid somewhere it’s still the hour of doom—MIDNIGHT—time to start studying.

That only if I had the opportunity to talk to her, she could see that I was her perfect match. The undeniable truth of our cosmically determined pairing would be evident after just a few words. She would be mine and I hers and all would end in a showering of radiance and bliss. A few months ago, I ran into this same young lady for the first time in years at a party. When I saw her, I regressed immediately back to 17 and my braces reappeared upon my teeth. After a moment and another drink, my composure returned and I decided that now I had no choice. I would approach her. No adolescent protestations of love, mind you, but simple chit-chat would flow forth from my lips. I had resolve and I had purpose. Command was mine. As I crossed the crowded room she saw me, and, I couldn’t believe it myself, she smiled. Oh joy! That welcoming, inviting, encouraging grin was all I had wanted for years. This face which had been a staple of my dream diet, which I had for so long adored, which I used to look for in crowds, which I still have not gone a day without picturing since I first laid eyes on it, was smiling, at ME! After all this time, she was smiling at me. She remembered me. She did so fondly. She was coming to speak to me! This moment, this particular moment, was the single greatest instant of my existence. After a life spent training for the sight, I was ready, my nerve steeled, my opening sentence ready, every fiber of my being perfectly honed for this one chance. I came closer, as did she. Perfectly sure that nothing could go wrong, I opened my mouth to speak when I heard her say with spirit in her voice, “How are you, John?”

Random Scribblings

Virgin Island Fantasies

Rut: 1. a fixed, routine procedure or course of action, thought, etc. 2. the periodic sexual excitement, or heat, of certain mammals.

I dream of falling into a different sort of rut. I want my routine to include pina coladas and sand, not Chambers and the Union. Of course, it is much more likely that I will spend the entire week in a drunken stupor, destroying everything in the American Inn and devouring Taco Bell. (Yes, seniors, I know you will all be living out my fantasy somewhere in the South of France, but we yearlings still have to squeeze through an entire week of self-sufficiency.)

“But how long ago we fell in is open to discussion. Basically, I want to talk about the promised land, Spring Break. I fall asleep nights with pleasant dreams of soft waves settling on the beach outside of my million-dollar-a-week hotel. I see myself resting beside some pool, a beautiful woman massaging my shoulders while men dressed in tuxedos bring me perspiring bottles of beer. The sun bounces off the water bringing its nourishing ultraviolet rays. Who cares what you plan on doing on March 6? The important thing is to keep the break in mind. You will be taking many midterms over the next two long weeks, but if you just fantasize about some Caribbean paradise you can probably fake your way down this well-trodden path. (Edgar A. Poe said that in order for a work of fiction to be good it must be possible to read it in one sitting. I think we are approaching greatness now.)

Do you have an opinion? If so, express it to Chris Frampton, editor of the South's Foremost College Opinions Section.