THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

Jungle Continued from page 10

own bed and his own color. Back to Harlem. Gator isn’t just asking for money anymore. Now he’s asking for
the color TV, so he can “watch the Mets game.” Yeah, right. But sweet mom gives it to him anyway.
So he comes back again. This time he gets violent, throwing things and screaming, “give me money!” Reverend (dad) comes
home, hears Gator, and in one of the most powerful scenes in the movie, shoots Gator in the abdomen, places
the pistol on an open bible, and sits down in his easy chair. Harsh.

Gator is dead, Angela is back in Bensonhurst, and Flipper is back with his wife. It appears as though the
rest of the company gets sent to the cleaners while Flipper comes out smelling like a rose. Not so. Projecting
to the future, we see Flipper walking out of his apartment. He is accosted by a prostitute. At first taken
aback, Flipper then grasps the girl’s head to his chest in a fatherly embrace and screams “No!” as he realizes
that he is holding his daughter. That’s how it ends. It’s hard to say what Spike Lee is trying to
tell us here. Paulie is starting where Flipper left off. Gator is dead, and Flipper’s daughter is following in his
footsteps. What does it all mean? Mary and I have come to the conclusion that we’re really not sure. We
can’t say that this film is against mixed relationships, because we never found out how Paulie ended up. It’s not
a film against Italians or Blacks, because both were portrayed in positive and negative lights. Maybe Lee is telling us
that life really is just an inescapable circle of suffering. Actually, Mary and I did come to one conclusion: Dan
Quayle would probably not like Jungle Fever. C-Ya.

Mo' Continued from page 10

harm is done. Bleek is not the only ostentatiously selfish character, however. “Giant,” played by Spike Lee, is Bleek’s manager,
and a poor one at that. Unfortunately, he is a worse gambler than a manager. In a scene in which
three gambling-ring thugs decide to pay for Giant’s debts in flesh, there is a moment in which they question how
exactly they will do this since Giant is a “brother.” One thug answers, “Break him like he’s an Afro-American,” and
they thereby break all his fingers. Spike Lee, as writer and director, demonstrates the impossibility of race consciousness to take
precedent over self-interest. In a violent and moving scene, Spike Lee reaffirms the value of friendship and loyalty. Giant has
his face beaten in by two thugs again for not paying up on his gambling debts. It seems as if
Bleek knows this is coming, but since he was consumed in an absolutely smoking solo, he doesn’t react in time
to save his friend. After the tune ends he runs out of the jazz bar, and there sees his friend
badly hurt. He tells the thugs he had the money for them, but they say it’s too late. Bleek makes
a courageous stand, but they were too much for him. His career is ended in that devastating moment.

Mo’ Better Blues is essentially an Afro-American film, and outside of the theme mentioned above, which is universal in nature,
elements cannot be separated from this culture. There are many references to the Harlem Renaissance of the 20’s and 30’s,
and Lee may actually be calling for this kind of response from Black America. Time and again we see posters,
albums, music of the late great John Coltrane, one of the greatest saxophonists of all time, and a prophet of
jazz. Lee uses a quote of Coltrane’s to end the movie which refers to music as the Love Supreme. We
hear the music of Miles Davis, and Bleek even names his son “Miles.” All these elements reinforce the great heritage
of Afro-American history in the world of jazz music. Lee criticizes his own culture for its lack of support in
these endeavors. Bleek, in a drunken argument with his saxophone player friend Shadow, complains that you never see any Blacks
in the audience, any of their own people, always people of other races. Shadow argues that you must create a
music which has an appeal to the Black audience. Lee makes an attempt to show that the ever-present dialectic between
the audience and the performer has a resolve: jazz music, a great contribution of Afro-American culture, not only asserts the
legitimacy and power of that culture, but has a universal appeal as well. Good music, as this is, goes beyond
the self-aggrandizement of the player. On first listening to jazz, there is little question as to its cultural source, but
its intellectual aspects and the beauty of its unique sound take a step beyond the issue of race. These qualities
are what make the music The Love Supreme.

Gotta Continued from page 10

activity. The men don’t understand her avaricious sexual appetite, and console themselves in Freudian interpretations and sex addiction prognoses of
Nora. Nora self-consciously takes these cues to heart and trots to the local sex therapist, who assures Nora of the
normalcy of her sexual desires and needs. After a Thanksgiving dinner, a burning Malleus-like nightmare, and a rape scene (because
Nora doesn’t want to have love made to her; she wants “to be fucked” (Jamie Overstreet)), Nora confronts the possibility
of losing the man she truly loves (ironically Jamie), and decides to do the monogamy thing once and for all.
She vows celibacy for at least a while, which elicits Jamie’s observation of the archetypical problem of female sexuality: Nora
goes from one extreme to another - there’s no (sexual) in-between! The slut-saint dualistic nature of female sexuality proves itself
to be true once again. But Noradoesn’t care; ultimately, she leaves Jamie because he wanted a wife and she wanted
control. Besides, she’s just not a one-man woman.

Daze Continued from page 10

laundry. T-I think the message Spike Lee was trying to send is that people need to “wake up” and take
a look around. Aside from racism, there are a great deal of intraracial problems that need to be taken care
of. R-Word, we as a people need to “wake up” and deal with the problems concerning ourselves. Right now we
are walking in a daze. I don’t just mean African-Americans, but all Americans, especially RIGHT HERE, RIGHT NOW! T-And for
all you ratings buffs, I give this movie four stars. Did you actually think I would dis Spike? (Dis =
the dismissal or disrespect of another human being. Candelario and Hinson: Black Lang Dictionary, 1992) R-No, I didn’t, because I
gave it four stars also. Yo Rock, now what were you saying about the SEX, Lee’s entry for the Encyclopedia
of Male Understanding of Female Sexuality can be looked at as comparatively sexually liberating. Nora guiltlessly likes and participates in
sexual activity and has mastered self-satisfaction. The film interestingly tropes various works of theater and literature, strikes the viewer with
clever caricatures and photo-montage interludes, and ignites arousal of all sorts through the interaction of its African-American-only players. But the
frosting-sweet taste of the film’s entertainment value pulls out a moment too soon to cover the rancid aftertaste of its
biting inner layers.

Check out this great ARTS section!!! Get involved call Chris at -6617

Whistlin' Dixie
Matt Bumstead

On September 15, a great chase began in country music; almost instantaneously, another great chase came to an abrupt halt.
Confused? Let me put it this way, Garth Brooks’ fifth album on Liberty Records, entitled The Chase, has just hit
stores. Billy Ray’s campaign for the spot at the top of country just got snuffed.

Today’s country music empire could be nicknamed “the house that Garth built.” And, sadly for the man who has made
our ears Achy and Breaky - Billy Ray Cyrus, for those of you who have been comatose - he has
come to put his house in order. Sorry, Billy Ray, there’s only room for one at his boots. Garth Brooks
has stayed so firmly at the top of country music that he has been put in a class by himself,
and he is now considering doing something that would only be a fitting end to his meteoric career. Retire? Are
you kidding? With over twenty million copies of his first three albums sold, the number one selling recording artist of
any format in 1991 is thinking of hanging it up? Well, he’s got enough dough to last a while; and
he’s got Taylor Mayne Pearl Brooks, his infant daughter who has stolen his heart, and maybe his passion. Besides, he
could be the first artist (maybe ever) to retire when he or she is at the top - before that
inevitable downhill slide begins to take over his career. All this aside, I’ll believe it when I see it. He
has now been the top country act for two solid years (and the top overall for one). Everyone is still
wondering, “When will he be overtaken?” Alan couldn’t do it, and neither could Clint. Billy Ray? Sorry, but there’s just
not enough there. The Chase can be Garth Brooks’ project. He knows it will have to end, but he also
knows he is still the biggest entertainer in all of music. And, whereas he is considering retiring, he’s gotta know
that he can do whatever he wants with this one. It can be his victory lap after a world record,
the top; and you were stepping on.

Garth Brooks Ends The Chase for #1

unthinkable race. Garth Brooks - The Chase Liberty Records

When I heard the first single off this album, “We Shall Be Free” (which is co-written, along with four other
songs on this release, by Brooks), I knew that the course of The Chase would carry Brooks, and consequently, country
music, through uncharted territory. The song is backed by a gospel choir and a steady gospelesque arrangement, complete with pounding
piano and a beat that makes your hands clap themselves. The song is not country - but Garth finds a
way, through his country vocals and a few twangy guitars, to make it country. What it is - and it
is not alone on this album - is Brooks’ effort at social commentary. “When the last thing we notice is
the color of skin/When the first thing we look for is the beauty within... then we shall be free.” Another
social message comes in “Face to Face”, the middle verse of which is about date rape - “And with a
finger you can put his fists away/when you’re face to face.” The song is written by the same man who
wrote Brooks’ first megahit “The Dance” (sort of a change of pace). It works well, but don’t be misled by
the billing by USA Today as “this album’s ‘The Thunder Rolls’”. My only complaint (and in a week or so,
I’ll no longer notice it) is that the instrumentation on this song, for which drive and force are as essential
to the effect as they were in “The Thunder Rolls”, is a little too quiet to knock the listener over
the way it could and should. Play this one on surround or ambience and you can take care of it.

Brooks chooses to perform three previously recorded tunes - the soft and warm “Night Rider’s Lament”, the jazzed-up, grinding version
of Patsy Cline’s “Walkin’ After Midnight”, and a swaggering, loose-belted rendition of Little Feat’s “Dixie Chicken”. All three are strong,
but “Walkin’” is the weakest, and perhaps should have been substituted for a fresh.

See "Brooks" on page 12
