THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS ~ MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

Working Group Continued from page 16

The number of scholarships in the budget will remain at that level, and Wildcat Club funds will be used to finance any further scholarships. The Working Group’s recommendation gives the Athletic Director the responsibility to distribute both men’s and women’s scholarships (previously, the athletic director was responsible for only women’s scholarships). Recommendation five stipulates that Davidson must not field uncompetitive teams “simply to meet eligibility standards for conference or divisional affiliation.” The corollary to that recommendation is that Davidson should not simply meet the minimum standards for Division I affiliation (seven men’s and seven women’s sports). Indeed, all parties seem to agree that Davidson’s athletic program, at whatever divisional level, ought to have an emphasis on participation. Said Holland, “We are not interested in supporting a minimum Division I program which would take opportunities away from students.”

Recommendation seven gives authority over the athletic program to the College President, in accordance with the suggestion of the Working Group. The goal of reducing the net cost of athletics to the college to the Division III level, a savings of $500,000 to $750,000, while maintaining a Division I program, is a long-term objective. The real question, then, is whether athletic department revenue (from, for example, basketball ticket sales) and outside contributions can make up the difference between a Division III budget and Division I financial necessities so that Davidson teams can continue to be competitive. “If we can’t do that,” Holland said, “we need to admit it.”

At present, the College budget funds 24 athletic scholarships, fifteen for men’s basketball and nine for women’s sports (the scholarships are administered on a proportional basis, and there are more male athletes than female). That number will move to 23 in 1992-93 and 22 in 1993-94 as men’s basketball scholarships are lowered to 14 and then 13 according to NCAA legislation. The allocation of scholarships in the budget will remain at that level, and Wildcat Club funds will be used to finance any further scholarships.

Tennis Continued from page 16

Milorieva in No. 4 singles. Nance strengthened throughout the match and used the home crowd’s enthusiasm and support to stop the top seed and win her flight. Nicole Wilcox defeated Radford’s Elsie Dondero 6-4, 6-0 to earn top honors in No. 5 singles, and Barbara Grooms knocked off Radford’s Julie Campbell 6-2, 6-2 in No. 6 singles. The team of Jennifer Beahm and Wilcox captured the No. 3 doubles title with a 6-3, 4-6, 6-1 victory over the Tupi Donna Hanlon and Anne Paterno.

Unfortunately for the ‘Cats, Campbell won six of its matches on Saturday and lost only three points to its leading challenger. Though Winthrop stopped the Camels at No. 5 singles and No. 1 doubles, Campbell reigned in the first three singles positions and the first two doubles brackets to assure themselves of the Big South title. Davidson was unable to top the regular-season conference champions, but the ‘Cats collective effort throughout the tournament was consistently strong. With their flight victories, Nance, Wilcox, Grooms, and the Beahm-Wilcox combination all earned spots on the All-Conference team; Price was named Coach of the Year. Last season, when they won the conference tourney, the ‘Cats placed only singles champion Leslie Goff and doubles champions Mary Beth Ruth and Natasha Ruth on the All-Conference squad.

“This was a tremendous year for us,” Price concluded. “We knew the challenges would be bigger this year, and we gave the best we could give. Memories from this tournament will warm many a winter day. I would definitely give our team an ‘A’ for its effort.”

Golf Continued from page 14The District II Tournament was held April 17-19 at River Run and The Peninsula, and was co-hosted by Davidson and UNCC. The tournament attracted some of the better teams in the South, among them East Carolina, East Tennessee State, Old Dominion, and Duke, and Mietz admitted before it started that his team’s chances of success were slim. “Our outlook for a high finish is not good,” he said, “but we'll go out and have some fun anyway.” It turned out Mietz was right. Davidson’s total of 323-317-329=969 placed them last among the 23 teams. McDaniel finished with a 76-80-81=237 total to lead the team. Craig Leonard shot 83-77-83=243. Nearly everyone on the team returns for next year, so Mietz has reason to expect improvement next season. But he is also apprehensive about returning to the Southern Conference; scholarships are a definite factor in the Southern, and Davidson simply cannot compete with the best teams in the conference. Mietz says that Davidson can compete with VMI, Western Carolina, and Appalachian State. “If we play well,” he says, “we can be in the middle of the pack in the Southern Conference.”

Knight Foundation Commission: “{t}rustees should explicitly endorse and reaffirm presidential authority in all matters of athletic governance.” The acceptance by the Trustees of the Working Group’s report signifies an important compromise between those who favor Division I affiliation for Davidson and those who support Division III affiliation. The Working Group’s student survey revealed that 87% of athletes and 66% of non-athletes oppose moving all sports to the Division III level. And Holland reports that the performance of Davidson student-athletes is on a par with those at Washington and Lee, a highly-regarded Division III school, suggesting that Division I athletics does not necessarily compromise academic integrity. But the question of finances simply cannot be ignored. The Board of Trustees’ acceptance of the Working Group’s recommendations sets out a path for the future. Davidson will likely only stay at the Division I level if its teams can continue to be competitive with a Division III budget.

Track Continued from page 15

Thurs- an championships was good enough for eighth overall. In the 800m, Mike “Herr” Grant (2:00.1) and Joe “Herr” Beach (2:01.9) knocked on the two-minute door, saving personal bests for the conference meet. Freshman Lee “Crack” Sutton placed eighth at Marshall with a shot put of 44' 2". His strong performances this spring show promise for the coming years. Rob “Mr. Complain” King also showed promise in the hammer throw with a distance of 119' 3". Rob “Crash” Clemens gave an outstanding effort in the pole vault, and Will “Cheese” Lazenby finished up with a discus throw of 118'. In relays, the squad of Spears, Hurtado, McMichael, and Grant teamed up for outstanding times in the 4x400m (3:28, sixth at the conference meet) and the distance medley relay (10:30.5, third fastest ever at Davidson). Coaches Gary “G-factor” Andrew and Beth “Bam-Bam” Manson were very pleased with the efforts of the season. There is great cause for optimism with the strong corps of underclassmen.

Baseball Continued from page 16

25-21. Their conference mark is complete at 10-6, and they will finish either second or third and host a first-round playoff series. Rick Bender is hitting .391 with 12 homers, and could reach the Davidson single-season record of 15 home runs.

PH.D. M.D. J.D. IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.

CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.

LSAT * GMAT * GRE * MCAT