Deep Thoughts: Many of you have probably seen the attractive young woman on the poster with the ominous headline, “KIDNAPPED.” Indeed, Dail Dinwiddie has become quite famous since she disappeared after the U2 concert in Columbia, SC, in late September. Her attractive visage now graces telephone poles and window panes all over the Southeast. U2 has even begun broadcasting her image on their widescreen television system at their concerts. I personally wish Dail’s image weren’t so well-known. I grew up about two blocks from Dail Dinwiddie and rode the bus to school with her until I was in the seventh grade. I would not consider her one of my closest friends, but I liked her and always thought she was genuine and kind-hearted. She was a tiny person, one quite vulnerable to the crime of which she has most assuredly been the victim. The night on which she was abducted, she was in a part of Columbia frequented by young people. Friends count on seeing one another there when they come home from school. My mother lives about five blocks away. What scares me most about Dail Dinwiddie’s abduction is that it was accompanied by the frightening incident in Charlotte in which two of Davidson’s own narrowly escaped harm at the hands of two armed youths. My family tells me that young women currently attending my high school were recently followed from volleyball practice and had to call the police. Stories like these can send one headlong into hysteria if not taken in the right perspective. We are so fortunate to live in this quaint village we call home for four years. It is so comforting to think that there is still a place in the world where just about everyone knows each other’s names and the dogs can sleep in the road at night. Recent events, however, serve as a shocking reminder that the larger world is a harsh place, one in which the naive get hoodwinked and the majority of folks live all too cautiously, allowing fear to control their behavior. I must remind myself when I wander down our quiet avenues that an alarm system allows my mother to sleep at night and many of the women I know have invested in cellular telephones purely for security reasons. These realizations are so shocking, I suppose, because they bring us to terms with the fragility of our own existence. We are all beginning to exit that portion of our lives in which we have felt blissfully immortal—able to escape harm despite the lengths of our recklessness. Events like those we have seen lately drive many behind defensive barriers from the mean and cruel world. The carelessness of their youth becomes an artifact of the past. Hence, the challenge that tragedies like Dail Dinwiddie’s kidnapping make for all of us is to maintain a balance between living in terror and shrugging off dangers overzealously. Remember that we are on this Earth for far too short a time to lock up the front door and booby trap the yard. Just be selective about who you let in the house. And pray for Dail if you get a chance.

The Family Leave Bill, an issue in the 1992 election, I would like to offer the Davidson elector—George Bush is a war hero, a valiant fighter pilot. Bill Clinton is a yellow-bellied draft dodger. Bush’s greatest achievement is ending the Cold War. Bill Clinton’s is Jennifer Flowers. On international experience, George Bush’s accomplishments are too numerous to mention. With no one else aiming to create a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear and concise comparison of the two main candidates, Bush’s greatest achievement is military leadership. Bush is the Commander-in-Chief. Clinton was once captain of a paintball team. Clinton’s closest brush with death occurred when Hillary came home early. Bush was shot down over the Pacific. “Just say no” is Bush’s anti-drug policy. “Just don’t use” is Clinton’s. Bush has a “Thousand points of light” policy, while Clinton has his “Thousand pints of rum” strategy. Finally, in comparing Bill Clinton and George Bush, Bush prefers Gore. George Bush frequently consults with Billy Graham, his favorite evangelist. Clinton prays with Jimmy Swaggart. On baseball, Bush roots for the Braves, and Clinton supports the Dodgers. Where Bush has a clear andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

thinks Perot is a very successful salesman who has been able to focus the election on economic issues and might be uniquely qualified to lead the country out of the economic crisis. 76% is afraid that, if he is elected, the phrase “Good morning” will be replaced by “Heil Perot.” 45% of me likes Perot’s witty, home-spun sound bites. 55% doesn’t understand what he’s talking about. Many women are running, and apparently leading, in the elections. 10% of me knows Congress is going to be a very tense place 3 or 4 days every month. 28% of me thinks the party mascots are good traditional symbols of our two oldest and largest political parties. 72% of me thinks the mascots are inane. One’s a stinky, fat flatfoot and the other’s, well, an ass. So poll yourself. See what you think. And remember, nothing is ever clear-cut. Get out there and vote. Your opinions do count.

Humor Continued from page 8

not hire a potential executive was that they took CUISINART 231 in the second semester of their freshman year. However, had they taken CUISINART 231 with HIBATCHI TRAINING, 95% of the Fortune 500 companies would have hired them. Course selection is everything. If someone were to come up to me and ask “Tony, how do I choose the right course for me?” Immediately I would direct him to the Davidson Perspective where he could peruse at his leisure through 89 pages of courses after courses after courses. A bit later he’d return and happily announce that he’s going to select the same courses he took last semester; then he’d sucker punch me. Finding the right course takes diligence, ingenuity, open communication with professors, an understanding of what goals you have in life, a pair of dice, a dart board, and an ouija thingy. All of these things can be found at your local, friendly, neighborhood Senior person. You see, they’ve been through all of this before. Let’s say you’re concerned about finding a math class. Ask Mr. Senior.

CONFUSED FRESHMAN: Mr. Senior sir, what math class should I take?

MR. SENIOR: I'd take Abstract Algebra 355 that will reduce your mind to a senseless pulp of grey matter in your freshman year.

CONFUSED FRESHMAN: Is it anything like the Quantum Mechanics 460 that I’d probably develop a gastrointestinal ulcer from in my freshman year that you suggested I take last semester?

MR. SENIOR: No, this class is much easier.

CONFIDENT FRESHMAN: Thanks Mr. Senior person.

Well, I’m sure that we’ve all had long, tough weekends choosing our courses for next semester. I guess now we can relax, sit back and wait for our turn in the Drop/Add line. This time I’m not falling for any secret decoder ring bit.

B&W Continued from page 8

Wake up! What’s the good of not going? You can’t learn anything if you don’t try. If he had appeared to be a racist, then you would have had a basis for your judgement. If he hadn’t, you would have had an opportunity to re-think your own ideas. We’re not trying to chastise. We just want you to keep an open mind. Some people were disappointed in Spike’s presentation, because they expected him to be more inflammatory. Perhaps people expected him to try to provoke us, but we think he did well to keep the tone of the discussion calm. Much more is accomplished through understanding and reason than through anger. Perhaps people expected him, because of his media image, to come to Davidson and say “I hate white people” so they could talk about “the nerve of that bigot to come to our school and say those things to us after we paid so much.” Realize, however, that the media hypes everyone and twists people’s words to get a rise out of the public. We didn’t think his comments were racist. On the contrary, Spike challenged media charges that he is a racist, and his replies to questions seemed to call for awareness and acceptance rather than separation. It’s also important to remember that Spike Lee is a filmmaker. He may be concerned about the future of race relations in America, but his first priority is how he can make his audience think about the issues he chooses to discuss in his films. He doesn’t necessarily provide solutions to the issues, but rather presents a current, realistic situation and challenges the viewer to provide a solution. We can’t look to him or his films for the answers, though there are often strong currents of racial harmony (yes there are, look closely). If we want to find the solution to racism, we have to start with the way we lead our lives and how we can better interact with the people around us.