— THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992

More Letters

Honor Chairman Warns of Food Foraging

To Members of the College Community,

A disturbing trend has spread throughout Patterson Court in recent weeks, escalating with alarming rapidity. It has become all too common for students to drift into houses of which they are not members and take food from that house’s facilities. The food at each Patterson Court house is paid for by the members of that house and is therefore their property. Students do not simply have the right to take food from another Patterson Court house simply because it is not under lock and key, and attitudes reflecting such beliefs are a far cry from being in the spirit of the Honor Code. With these ideas in mind, I wish to alert you to some specifications stemming from the Honor Code that are effective immediately:

- Taking food from the kitchen or from a refrigerator outside the kitchen of a Patterson Court house of which one is not a member without permission from a member of that house is stealing and will therefore be considered a violation of the Honor Code. Use your common sense. If it isn’t yours, don’t take it. If you don’t think it was made accessible for you, find something else to eat. Food on Patterson Court that you did not pay for is still food that you did not pay for and that does not belong to you. Students who take food from the kitchen of their own house against the rules of that house will be dealt with by the executives of the house; such actions will not be considered Honor Code violations.

It seems that perhaps some students have adopted the attitude that stealing is acceptable as long as it is not covered under the stipulations of the Honor Code. Such attitudes reduce the Honor Code to little more than a set of rules; simply going through the motions of what the Code specifies, not taking to heart its ideals and principles, completely subverts its undercurrent of acceptable behavior.

See "Bumstead” on page 9

Insensitivity, Harassment and Assault

To the Editor:

After reading the Davidsonian’s coverage of the Select Committee’s Report on Alleged Intolerance as well as the report itself, I am deeply disappointed in the reactions of many of my fellow students. While the complaints regarding SAE-bashing are in some cases justified, the attitudes expressed by many students indicate that too many people are missing the big picture and focusing instead on less significant details.

The big picture is this: Insensitivity, harassment, and outright assault exist and must be stopped. Men and women, whites and minorities do not understand each other as well as we could, and this misunderstanding lies at the root of many of our problems on campus. Some men believe that when a woman says “NO!” she really means, “Not yet.” Some women naively think that we can say “NO!” just once, and the message will reach the man with whom she is involved at the moment. Some whites feel they can call someone a “nigger” without intending to demean that person’s race. Some blacks interpret racist actions of a few whites as representative of all light-skinned Americans. We don’t understand each other’s feelings and perceptions, and we don’t respect what we don’t understand. Respect is the key to treating people like Human Beings.

Unfortunately, people not only have these perceptions in their heads, but we also act on them without thinking about the consequences. We are most likely to act without thinking when we have been drinking heavily. The social abuse of alcohol is clearly supported at Davidson. Of course, most people don’t say, “Hey dude, it’s really uncool if you don’t get drunk.”

See "Lindsey" on page 9

Louria Sees Good in Fraternities

To the editor,

I have just recently had an opportunity to read the report by the Select Committee on Alleged Intolerance, and it is quite disturbing. I am astounded that a committee that is in no way representative of the feelings of the majority of the student body can blithely go around pointing fingers and condemning the fraternity system in general and the Dean of Students Office in specific as the root of all evil on the Davidson Campus. This committee would have you believe that the fire which will destroy the Davidson community is being actively disseminated from the fraternities, and the Dean of Students office is passively observing while Davidson burns. Both these perceptions are erroneous.

Admittedly, the fraternity system at Davidson is not perfect, and it does have some problems that need to be addressed, but as a member of a fraternity, it is disheartening and frustrating to be subjected to harassment (and I choose this word deliberately) from certain individuals in this community who have not attempted to understand exactly what Patterson Court and the fraternity system is all about. Instead, these individuals would rather go on rumor and hearsay. This is what forms the content of their “knowledge” about fraternities. Last year, two professors came down to a party to experience the court for themselves. No doubt they had heard the rumors about what went on down at the court, but they decided to do their own research. The fact that they had a good time (which they did!) is not the point. The point is the professors were willing to experience the court for themselves, and then and only then did they feel qualified to pass judgment.

See "Louria” page 9

McCulloh Corrects Error

To the editors:

Please allowHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

I need to correct an inaccuracy in last week’s article “Davidson to Welcome German Professor” (The Davidsonian, March 23, 1992). The reference in the article to the end of departmental “homogeneity” is the result of a misunderstanding. Reporter Will Boye and I spoke very briefly last week, and I obviously failed to stress certain distinctions. Women have in the past taught (and one currently teaches) German at Davidson; the regular, full-time appointments traditionally have been held by men. Dr. Elizabeth Waghall, who will join the faculty in the fall, will be the first woman to occupy a full-time, tenure-track position as a teacher of German. However, it should be pointed out that a woman already holds a full-time position in our Department, though she is not a teacher of German. Professor Bonnie Marshall joined the Department in 1987 as a teacher of Russian, at which time the moniker “German Department” for “Department of German” became obsolete, replaced by “Department of German and Russian”.

Mark R. McCulloh
Chairman, Department of German and Russian

---

C. Shaw Smith: A Magician in More Ways Than One
By Thomas Helland

C. Shaw Smith was a very special person. He extended himself to others when they were down and needed a shoulder to lean on. His door was always open, and when you entered, you immediately felt a good feeling in your heart about this man. He was a very warm, sharing man who extended himself towards you in all circumstances. Even if it was just a brief visit in the post office (where I frequently encountered him), he made you feel good about yourself and others, and that made him feel good.

My senior year in high school I signed a letter of intent to play basketball at Davidson. A mutual friend of ours called to congratulate me, and she told me that her graduation present to me was Shaw Smith. I did not know what treasure this present would turn out to be. The day I flew up for freshman orientation, Shaw greeted me at the airport as if he had known me for years. He took me to lunch, helped me move into my room, and helped me establish a bank account. At Thanksgiving, he invited my mother and me to his home to share Thanksgiving dinner with his wife Nancy and the rest of his family. Our relationship took off from there. I ventured over to their house every now and then to talk with him. Every visit was a special visit; I always left there feeling good about everything. My last visit with Shaw was the day before he passed away, and the conversation went like all the other ones did—relaxing, fun, resourceful, intuitive, and inquisitive. When I went over there, he would always ask me how my parents were doing, how my sister was, did she have a job yet, did I have a job yet. He was very interested in my pursuit of graduate school, and he wanted to be informed whenever I heard the results.

Shaw didn’t need to pull a dove out of a hat to put a smile on a person’s face. He was indeed a magician in more ways than one. He could manage a smile out of a child or an adult with the same ease. Shaw’s passing is not the hard part. The hard part will be adjusting to life without such a wonderful man. My hat is off to you, Shaw.

Thomas Helland ‘91

---

Allison Continued from page 7

I decided to take an extreme risk—I decided to spy in on a house meeting. All of my darkest fears were realized. Pledges were being forced to place a pint of their blood in front of an altar that had the word “Beezelbub” engraved below it. Pigs’ heads were on sticks throughout the house. Male chauvinist chants rang throughout their den. Babies were being sacrificed. All of this I observed in just minutes—for I feared being discovered by a group of such “Sick boys.” My evidence is overwhelming. SAE is Satan Incarnate. The solution is obvious. SAE should be forever banished from our beloved campus. I strongly feel that this would solve all of the problems that have infested Davidson all year. Racial tension would become a thing of the past. Homophobia would likewise be lifted. There would no longer be hunger in the world. Natural disasters would cease to occur. All damage to the ozone layer would be nullified. Most importantly, world peace would finally be realized.

But I suggest we do not stop here. SAE is the most heinous of a hellish group. The fraternity system must be replaced. In its place, I support the simply brilliant plan to randomly assign students to eating houses. This would weed out the students who wanted to lead a normal life and would place a firmer emphasis on academics and social ineptness. There is a disturbing undercurrent of frivolity rippling through the Davidson community. These undesirable trends will soon explode if the SAEs, and all supporters of the dastardly fraternity system, are not stopped immediately. Once this is achieved, I firmly believe that Davidson College will become the monastic haven that all true Davidsonians hope and pray it can be.

Scapegoat found,
Bryan Allison ‘95

---

Turner Continued from page 7

Case and point, women have wanted and needed a new eating house for several years, and this year they organized it and showed everyone their desire for it and Connor House is a reality. Let’s stop being seemed.

Catherine Turner
Class of ‘93