10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

Davidson Arts

Widespread Panic Will Strike Davidson

The Concert Committee presents Widespread Panic on Wednesday, November 4 at 9 PM in Johnston Gym. Admission is free for students, faculty, and staff with ID, and is $7 for the public. Call the ticket office between 2 and 5 PM weekdays at 892-2135.

Production of Rashomon Entertains Full House

By Chris Hoveland

The Theatre Department presented five shows of Rashomon over the past two weekends. The players in last Thursday night’s performance demonstrated talent and vitality to a responsive full house in Hodson Hall. Dr. Joseph Gardner designed and directed the play, with technical direction and lighting by Ronnie Higdon. Freshman Karl Ruch composed and performed the music (on electronic drums), and Katie Schlee designed the costumes.

Rashomon, written by Fay and Michael Kanin, takes place in the Orient before the Rashomon Gate, where three characters, a priest (Scott Lenhart), woodcutter (Jonathan Brooks), and wigmaker (Bobby Ramsay) question the truth behind the testimonies of several characters’ involvement in a treacherous incident. The facts of the case remain open-ended, but in essence, an infamous bandit (Ed Cunningham) attacks and binds up a Samurai warrior (David Tweedie), thereby forcing him to witness subsequent sexual involvement between the bandit and the warrior’s wife (Amanda Davis). The warrior is killed. Thereafter, the question of whose honor is lost to whom is answered through self-interest-tainted responses of the involved characters. As we shall see, each character’s assessment is hardly worthy of its claim to truth.

The bandit presented his side of the story first. Cunningham was the perfect man for the role, capturing all the mannerisms and antics involved in portraying the bandit’s violent yet comic disposition. The bandit, quite proud of his image as looter and sexual conquistador, presents his view of the incident as one of bravery (in an exciting and well-performed sword fight with the warrior), and violently aggressive promiscuity. He concludes his presentation of the “facts” with an indifferent retort to the raped (but she enjoyed it) wife: “In your whole life, it may be the only thing you remember.”

The wife then tells her story as she had presented it before court. Davis had a difficult role which required that she play the love-toy, the assertive but self-pitying female, or the unfaithful wife (depending on who was telling the story). With each story, it is hard to believe she is the same wife — she does a fine job of presenting her overly manipulated and emotionally diverse character. Her mother,

See "Rashomon" on page 12

MOVIE REVIEW: Celluloid Hero: Four Thumbs Up

By Will Lazenby and Mary McCrory

The job of movie reviewer is not an easy one, but we somehow managed to sweat through another week. This week’s pick: Hero starring Dustin Hoffman, Geena Davis, Chevy Chase, Andy Garcia, and Joan Cusack.

Mary: So, Will, dazzle me. What did you think?

Will: Well, other than the unrealistic plane crash scene, I thought it was pretty good.

Mary: Yes, actually, I was not expecting to enjoy it, but I did. To me, the best thing about this movie was the way it really challenges how you look at truth and the way the media can pervert it. Geena Davis has a particularly good scene where she examines her role as a journalist as she accepts a major award. In her acceptance speech, she comes to the conclusion that her job is just one endless dig for a bigger and better story, without any regard for the feelings of others.

Will: Ironically, her best story is right under her nose. Bernie LaPlant, a cynical con-artist, rescues her and 53 others from a burning plane. This from a guy who tells his son that life is layer upon layer of bull, and whose motto is to “look out for number one.”

Mary: I like Bernie LaPlant the character, but I was not as impressed with Dustin Hoffman as Bernie LaPlant. It seemed like sometimes he lapsed back into “Rainman” mode, with his constant mutterings to himself. It’s hard to know if that was Dustin Hoffman’s fault, or the fault of the script.

Will: Geena, on the other...hand, See "Hero" on page 12

MOVIE REVIEW: Consenting Adults-- Should Get A Clue
By Scott McLean

Well, just as I was beginning to think I'd finally seen the end of the “Basic Instinct” wanna-be flicks, another one has managed to rear its ugly little head in theaters around the country. Slickly promoted as the next big picture to feature a barrage of psychological mind games (it even uses the “Basic Instinct” theme music in its advertisements), Consenting Adults fails to stimulate anything but your gag mechanism. With a storyline that caves in on itself and no outstanding performances by any of the cast members to save it, this one is bound to be short-lived at the box office for sure.

The initial premise presented to us is not bad at all: an upscale Atlanta couple (Kevin Kline and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) are lured into a nightmare by their seemingly perfect new neighbors. However, bad acting and a script that delves into absurdity doom this pic. Eddie and Kay Otis are the neighbors, a living-on-the-edge couple whose vitality rubs off on Kline and Mastrantonio’s characters, putting some “oomph” back into their stale marriage. I don’t know who the hell plays the parts of Eddie and Kay, but I suspect that the guy was probably a stormtrooper in the Star Wars trilogy and the girl did a stint in an episode of Moonlighting.

In any case, as the bond between these two couples grows, Eddie suggests to Kline’s character that perhaps they should engage in a little wife-swapping activity. Kline, who you could tell wanted to borrow a little more than just a cup of sugar from his neighbor, “consents” after some arm twisting. Unfortunately, that was Kline’s second mistake - his first being the fact that he agreed to do this movie. I spent much of the movie wondering why Kline and Mastrantonio would stoop so low as to be in a movie like this one - actually, I can believe Kline would be in it, but it just goes to show you what lengths folks will go to during...

See "Adults" on page 12

ALBUM REVIEW: Harvest Moon: Neil Young's Long-Awaited Sequel to Harvest
By Rachel Newcomb

“Old Man, take a look at my life/24 and there’s so much more,” Neil Young sings on his 1972 classic album Harvest. Now, at age 46, Young has released Harvest Moon, an album which echoes the themes and musical motifs of Harvest. In the past twenty years, Young has been a prolific artist, producing albums whose styles range from country-folk to rock. During the 1980s, Young released several experimental albums that failed both commercially and critically, but his highly acclaimed 1990 and ’91 albums Ragged Glory and Freedom proved that Young had not lost his edge. His most recent release, Harvest Moon, shows Neil Young in top form, still skillful at writing and arranging music.

Harvest Moon is a break from the clamorous live intensity of last fall’s Weld, and is full of acoustic folk-rock with emotional, expressive lyrics. Neil Young has recruited the same musicians who appeared on Harvest, including his band “Stray Gators” and such musical luminaries as James Taylor. Musically, Harvest Moon is strikingly similar to '72’s Harvest, yet Young has changed since then and his growth as a person and as a songwriter is reflected in his songs.

The album opens with “Unknown Legend,” a folk-country ballad which commends the anonymous struggle of a working-class waitress. “From Hank to Hendrix,” the next track, pays homage to the history of rock and the connection Young feels with his own music. The album is not without its political moments. Gone are the angry tirades against racism such as Harvest’s “Alabama” or “Southern Man.” Instead, Young’s political convictions reflect the current era. Neil takes a quiet yet firm stance against the spoiling of nature in “War of Man” and in the impressive live cut “Natural Beauty.”

Harvest Moon is a fitting title for this album. The songs are much more mature than those on Harvest, and reveal a Neil Young who has experienced a great deal of life. “I never tried to burn any bridges/ Though I know I let some good...

See "Harvest" on page 12