4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992

On Thursday, November 12, the Dean of Students Office and the College Union present Schyleen Qualls’ "The Last Word!"—a positive and delightful one-woman show at 7:30 in the 900 Room. A native of Denver, Colorado, Schyleen Qualls has been highly acclaimed on campuses across the country for helping broaden cultural perspectives of students, faculty, and administrators of diverse backgrounds. Qualls has established herself as an accomplished actress with an impressive list of credits in the arts. She is the co-founder of the Cleo Parker Robinson Dance Ensemble.

Classifieds

PERFECTION-CONNECTION OFFICE SERVICES
We Type Resumes, Theses & Term Papers.

Spring Break '93
Panama City Beach, Florida
Sales Representative Needed to Work with the #1 Spring Break Team.
TRAVEL ASSOCIATES AND TOUR EXCEL
Sell the BEST Properties on the Beach:
SUMMIT CONDOMINIUMS
MIRACLE BEACH RESORT
HOLIDAY INN, PIER 99
30 Years Combined Experience.
Call Judy & Ruth Wilson
664-9346

Earn Top Commission and Free Trips
For Information Call Julie:
1-800-558-3002
$$$$, FREE TRAVEL AND RESUME EXPERIENCE!!
Individuals and Student Organizations wanted to promote SPRING BREAK, call the nation's leader.

-HORSES BOARDED-
Excellent facilities near lake campus. Full stall care. $190 per month.
892-0247

Inter-Campus Programs
1-800-327-6013.

Place an Ad in The Davidsonian Classifieds

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT
Serving the best in traditional Southern Foods
Tues.-Fri. Lunch: 11-2; Dinner: 5-9
Saturday Dinner: 5-9
Wednesday-College Night
Special on Selected Appetizers (1/2-Price)
Discount on Beer
Occasional ENTERTAINMENT
Weekend Specials include grilled swordfish and broiled salmon
Entrees include fresh vegetables
To Go Orders — Daily Lunch Specials
761 N. Main St. Mooresville, NC
904/663-7322

Morehouse Continued from page 1

American student, faculty, and staff population.
2. An opportunity to reside in Atlanta, a prominent urban center for African-American intellectual, social, and cultural history.
3. An opportunity to explore curricular options in the social sciences and humanities that are not readily available at Davidson.
4. An occasion to live and study in an environment where African-Americans are in key civic and academic leadership positions.

Conversely, the program will also “create an opportunity for Morehouse College to provide some of its students with access to diverse cultural and ethnic views.” Eaves believes that students from both schools will find the program to be greatly beneficial, as well as challenging, as being in such a new environment “will probably be very overwhelming at first.”

Although the effort to establish this exchange program began before the rise in racial tensions surfaced at Davidson last year, Eaves says that the presence of those problems helped motivate him and his team. They saw the exchange program as “providing Davidson students with an environment where they can be sensitized to some of the racial issues that exist today,” hopefully alleviating misunderstandings and conflicts that often arise in racial disputes.

To Eaves, one of the crucial aspects of creating this kind of learning environment was ensuring that the visiting students from each school would be guaranteed on-campus housing. Eaves felt that this was very important in giving Davidson students “the full experience of living at Morehouse.”

Because Morehouse is an all-male school, only male Davidson students will be eligible for the program. However, Eaves’ next goal is to establish a similar exchange program with Spelman College, Morehouse’s sister school, also located in Atlanta. Applicants for the Morehouse exchange program must have a minimum GPA of 2.0, as well as a desire “to"represent Davidson well." Students will be eligible to participate in the program during the second semester of their sophomore year, as well as in their junior year, and may choose to attend Morehouse either for a semester or for a full year. The application process for the program will begin in the spring of this year, with the first student exchange taking place next fall. The cost of the program for Davidson students will equal that of attending Davidson, and the students will receive course credits equal to those that they would receive from Davidson. Eaves hopes to start the program with the exchange of one or two students from each school, possibly later increasing this number. Students interested in any information about the program should contact John Eaves in the Dean of Students Office.

An Evening of 20th Century Vocal Music and Poetry — Hear the Works of Stasack, Holland, Abbott, and Winkler
By Chris Hoveland

Have you done anything creative lately? Written any poetry? Written any music? A few of our professors have. This Friday, November 13, at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall, the Davidson community will have the opportunity to attend “An Evening of Twentieth Century Vocal Music and Poetry,” a program coordinated by Visiting Professor and Composer in Residence Jennifer Stasack. The agenda for the night includes performances of her music, as well as recitations of the poetry of Gill Holland, Tony Abbott, and the late Julius Winkler. The performance promises to be an inspiring exposition of the artistic talent of several of Davidson’s own.

The program will be organized around four themes in one uninterrupted presentation: a tribute to various twentieth-century poets, poetry concerning farewell/loss/parting, existential struggle, and man’s relationship with nature. Holland will recite several poems (his own and a couple of his translations from Chinese poetry), while guest readers will present the works of Abbott and Winkler.

Quality & Fashion Apparel for Men and Women at Affordable Prices with You in Mind
Our 80th Year
128 N. Main St.
Downtown Mooresville
Hours: Mon-Fri 9am-6pm; Sat 9am-5pm
Jenn Nock & Son
664-4711

* Admissions Continued from page 1

particular attention to the rigor of the high school curriculums, the achievement of the students in the courses of study, the quality of essays on the applications, the quality of the students’ character portrayed through personal and academic references, and the standardized test scores. The admissions officers are actively seeking minority students as well as international applicants. However, Wells said that most importantly, “We will accept the strongest academically and personally to Davidson.” Douthit said that they are looking for “those students who can benefit from the type of education at Davidson.”

Several new Merit scholarships, like the Cornwell Writing Scholarship, will be available for this upcoming class of ‘97. According to Wells, the counselors in Admissions are “really excited” about the new opportunities for prospective students and think that they “will really help admissions a lot.” With a goal of 410 to 420 freshmen in the class of ‘97, Wells said, “The admission picture looks quite strong.”

Write for News... Call Sean at -6641

Stasack will also perform two works which have been written during her residency at Davidson. Her husband, poet Tom Saya, wrote the texts for these two compositions. The Concert Choir will perform one piece. The program is dedicated to the memory of Winkler.