THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992

LaFeber Continued from page 1

"in a way that challenges the U.S. [and] challenges many other major powers,” said LaFeber. Gorbachev admitted, asserted LaFeber, that
the Soviet Union fell behind the other major world powers technologically and militarily, thus leading to corruption in their system.
LaFeber believes the years from 1945 to 1990 were actually an “aberration of history” because technology was contained within the
political outlines of the two-camp world. Therefore, the Cold War era was more predictable and secure. Since the end of
the Cold War, technology began to diffuse among nations and we are “back to the historical world of the late
nineteenth, early twentieth century,” said LaFeber.

LaFeber discussed a theory created by Margaret Thatcher as a possible explanation for this new balance of power in a
world he sees as very similar to the year 1914, a “much less predictable and much more dangerous world.” LaFeber
described Thatcher’s theory as a “three block world” centered around the German Deutschmark, the United States’ dollar, and the Japanese
yen. These blocks of economic power would be a challenge to Clinton because foreign diplomacy would be entirely different from
anything ever experienced by the post-World War II generation.

In terms of German economic power, LaFeber said that three or four years ago nobody could have imagined the progress
of today’s unified Germany, especially the Deutschbank, which handles twenty to twenty-two percent of German trade. Western Europe is becoming
the world’s strongest economy and LaFeber says if this economic block “comes to fruition [it] would be the largest block
in the world.” LaFeber said the United States is very closely tied with Germany and that credit for the success
of German reunification should be given to Bush. The French and the British appealed to the Soviet Union to prevent
the German reunification, yet Bush took charge and persuaded Mikhail Gorbachev to slowly remove Soviet troops from East Germany, explained
LaFeber.

Despite these close ties to the United States, LaFeber cited the Germans' recent deals with Japanese firms as an attempt
by the European Community and Japanese technology and capital to “target the United States as an economic competitor,” especially the
aircraft industry. Therefore, despite these ties between the United States and Germany, Clinton will be presented with challenges to American
industries from Europe and Asia as he tries to solidify economic agreements in his own hemisphere.

The United States’ economic block centers around the North American Free Trade Agreement, according to LaFeber. This agreement worked so
well between the United States and Canada that the removal of tariffs originally slated for 1999 has been accelerated to
1994-1995. Yet, even more important, says LaFeber, is the historic decision made by the president of Mexico in 1989 and
1990 to sign a free trade agreement with the United States. According to LaFeber, the Mexicans have been suspicious of
U.S. capital ever since the loss of the Texas territory. LaFeber also believes Clinton will be tougher on the Mexicans
before he signs the agreement into law. Reservations first raised by Senator Lloyd Bentsen about Mexico have been adopted by
the Clinton camp, says LaFeber. These reservations include Mexico’s inadequate protection of the environment and the insufficient amount of money
allotted for the retraining of U.S. workers who will be put out of work by the agreement. LaFeber believes Clinton
will probably make adjustments to the treaty, yet the new president will be open to ratifying this kind of agreement.
Although this block is “not quite there yet,” LaFeber believes it will be established by 1995-1996.

The Japanese block is based on bilateral agreements with several Asian countries in which American capital still plays a large
role. Unlike the U.S. and Germany, it is “not a political, multilateral treaty framework in which the Japanese are moving,”
says LaFeber. The Japaneseare quietly setting up an export market while most of the attention is directed at the European
Community and the United States. According to LaFeber, the Japanese have been successful in exploiting markets in Thailand and Malaysia
and they are prepared to move into Vietnam when its markets open. What LaFeber finds extremely interesting is the possibility
of an economic relationship between the Japanese and the Chinese. LaFeber says despite the Japanese dependence on the U.S., these
relations with China would be too important to the Japanese to allow U.S. involvement. The U.S. currently has more investment
in China than the Japanese and, LaFeber said, “the U.S. historically has cared a great deal about China... There’s now
going to be a race for the Chinese market.”

Clinton could affect this race for the Chinese market by removing their “most favored nation” status as a warning that
he will not tolerate the Chinese abuses of human rights. LaFeber says Clinton’s policy toward China will be “well worth
watching because it will be an indicator about where he is headed in foreign policy.” LaFeber admitted that there are
problems with this concept of a “three block world” since it excludes some of the most volatile nations from these
“stable block” regions and there are very strong nationalisms within some of these blocks. The volatile regions include Africa, the
Middle East, Latin America, and parts of South Asia, not to mention the Soviet Union.

There is a remaining Japanese dependence on American military presence in Asia since they are afraid of the nuclear situation
in the fragmented Soviet Union and are willing to pay an inordinate amount of money for U.S. military troops to
remain there, said LaFeber. The problem of nationalism is also evident within the Asian block as other Asian countries continue
to desire American military presence since they have not entirely forgotten what the Japanese did to them in the 1930s
and 1940s, said LaFeber. Despite these fears, the United States has already pulled forces out of the Philippines and is
slowly reducing the number of troops in Guam.

As LaFeber demonstrated with his comparisons to the year 1914, Clinton’s United States will be very different from the America
of his lifetime in terms of foreign relations. The Cold War is over and there is no longer a great
ideal to pursue since “liberal capitalism and liberal democracy have won,” yet LaFeber wonders what the next generation will do
without the predictability of the Cold War. Interestingly, LaFeber’s final statement about the current world situation was a quote from
a Russian journalist who said, “People cannot jump out of their skins and nations can’t jump out of their history.”

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS
ARMY ROTC
“MY DEGREE GOT ME THE INTERVIEW. ROTC GOT ME THE JOB.”
Sure, my degree got me in the running. But in the end, it was the experience I got in management
through Army ROTC that won them over. You can begin to develop impressive leadership skills with an Army ROTC elective.
MIL 101 "The U.S. Army Today"
Spring Semester Schedule
Thursday 1:00 - 1:50

PIE IN THE SKY PIZZA
HAND ROLLED AND TOSSED NEW YORK STYLE PIZZA
WE SERVE A MEDIUM-THICK CRUST OR EXTRA-THICK CRUST, LET US KNOW WHEN YOU ORDER. WE'LL BE GLAD TO ACCOMMODATE YOU.
Hours: Sandwiches, Beer & More!
TUES, THURS - FREE DELIVERY
FRI. AND SAT. (orders of four or more pizzas, only)
125-2 N. Main St., Mooresville
5PM - 10PM
663-7189
IF YOU PREFER A THIN CRUST

UNION OUTPOST
WING WEDNESDAY
WING DINNER $1.49
BAG O' WINGS $5.99
BUCKET O' WINGS $9.99
served with celery sticks and ranch dressing

TACO THURSDAY
A DUO OF TACOS $1.99
Wednesday & Thursday 11 P.M. - 3 A.M.
PIZZA $2.99 & $4.99
Friday & Saturday 8 P.M. - 3 A.M.
PIZZA FIXINS 25¢ & $1
