14 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

Spring December

December first is a spring day
the birds who remained cry spring songs
and the trees sweat in anticipation
but the gentleman playing can only pay in snow.
though his face is warm in the breeze
he can only speak and pay in the snow bees
today who work soon see their honey frozen in wax.
he concentrates on the music
quite wasted in the garden
old man winter in the salon
plays before the window.
out comes cold Chopin

By Gil Holland

First Grade

my boy said SH is a sound a ship makes
and CH a train moving
he was learning sounds and letters
on this gusty autumn day
of leaves and rushing trees

By Gil Holland

A Boy Remembers Toscanini’s Last Visit to Richmond

After Respighi the encores, and the last:
Dixie in the Mosque!
Oh, we cheered that encore,
when a god stooped to enter our house door
and eat at our table.
My father said he rolled down the Appian Way that night
through all the fountains right into wet Richmond.
The papers reported he stepped down soon after
wandering from the score.
But when he threw that baton and shouted an oath
it sailed like a seabird all the way to Rome.
He could see all the way like sunup
Over ruins to march Caesar’s legion once again.
Then Dixie in the Mosque! to the limousine
He used a little table salt and we fell like rabbits in a box.
At the backstage exit light we waited to cheer more.
A top hat and a white face if you stood on your tiptoes,
our tired Maestro headed moving as though he were on wheels
over the heads of the dark crowd.

By Gil Holland

Madonna

Continued from page 13

and if I am wrong, then I am going to take a camera to a Patterson Court Party, take naked
pictures, and publish them under the guise of art. Probably, before I know it, I will be getting a lot
of free press, and millions of dollars. I know two ways to get rich very quickly. Make a movie that
is more sexually explicit and violent than Basic Instinct, and you will be a rich man or woman, or, you
could write a book more deranged and violent than Bret Easton Ellis’s American Psycho. Has anyone noticed the steady decline
of creativity towards more shocking and controversial things in our society? With the decline in standards of art, there is
the inversely correlational rise of obscenity in many forms, and this effect does not solely exist with photography. Another issue
is the degradation of women. Some women may think that Madonna is expressing her true self and has made the
feminist choice to expose herself and her fantasies. I think that the book hinders the movement for women’s rights more
than helps it, however. The reason for this is that men, in general, are not thinking about how Madonna is
a marketing genius when they read/gawk at this book. Men see this book as being stereotypical, and see Madonna as
purely a sex toy. More women should be upset with this type of stereotypical behavior, because it is not helping
them out at all. This book is indicative of the decline of standards in our society, and I believe that
the trend will continue. Watch over the next year, and see if things continue on a downward slope. Madonna sure
made out well (no pun intended) after Sex’s publication, and I cannot argue with her brilliant marketing techniques. After looking
at the book, however, I cannot help but feel like a sucker. A Davidson Student giving in to mediocrity. Social
messages are important, and people should watch for the underlying themes, because these messages are the ones that affect the
views of individuals more than the grandiose exterior glitter of trash.

Zimmerman

Continued from page 13

Blood on the Tracks (which is a really excellent disc and you should buy it; It has great lyrics and
chicks dig it in a romantic and in a ‘hey, this guy’s deep’ sort of way). Anyway, this is how
I feel about Dylan; his music moves me. When I’m down I can listen to his music andFeel good. When
I’m up, it keeps me that way. It is not as true as much for this album as for some
others, but he expresses emotions that we all share. Hey, this is a good album, and I encourage you to
listen to it. I do not know of any other way to express it other than sitting you down and
playing it for you so you can judge it for yourself. I had to listen to it a few times
to really get a feel for it, but after I spun it a few times, it grew on me. Give
it a chance.

Dracula Continued from page 13

Lucy. Gary Oldman, Dracula, did a good job in his role, though he tended to be melodramatic and at times
was laughable. Oldman is the vampire for the 90s, but Bela Lugosi’s face will probably forever be associated with the
name Dracula. The standout was Anthony Hopkins and his portrayal of Dr. Van Helsing, the eccentric doctor/vampire hunter who is
called in to help. Aside from the special effects and the cinematography, he was the one spark that kept me
from falling asleep in my seat (well, that and the halitosis of the guy sitting next to me). This one
reminded me a lot of “Batman Returns” in that there was a lot of hype surrounding it, it was visually
stunning, and it had at least one knockout performance (there, Michelle Pfeiffer), but overall it was just a big letdown.
This might end up being one of those movies that you feel that you have to see “‘cause everybody’s doing
it,” but if you decide to go, go to the matinee. I’d hate to feel like I was responsible for
letting this lifeless flick suck away an extra two dollars as well as wasting your time to boot.

Achy Continued from page 13

The attention avalanches, and soon you have a big star on your hands. Politics, baby, politics. Well, the system today
is reformed somewhat. As I said, the album charts are much more realistic in their appraisal of the weekly sales
situation; sales are now all that matter. The singles charts, too, are more in line, tabulated by the number of
times daily they are played on radio stations. Radio programmers who like a song and think their listeners will want
to hear it will “add” it to their playlists. From there it goes into a “rotation” - light, medium, heavy,
or hot - depending on how many times a day they want to play it (from one to five or
six). A song moves up in the charts when stations increase the number of times a day they play the
song. That’s about as simple as I can make it. But it’s still out there. We may never know it
or hear about it, but it’s there. I told you last year that even the awards shows are sometimes under
suspicion, for several labels are thought to engage in vote trading (you vote our way in this category, we’ll vote
yours in another one). In today’s high-pressure world of entertainment, it seems you’ve gotta do anything it takes to sell
your product. If that means cheating another artist out of his or her due while trying to sell your artist’s
records by convincing the public (who are obviously seen as animals not much more sentient than cattle) that “everyone else
likes this song, so you should, too”... well, business is business. It’s pretty sad. All we want is to hear
music. All the artists want is to make music. The trade ought to be a simple one. Still, don’t be
disheartened. This doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t pay attention to the chart numbers; heaven knows I do. But you should
take everything - awards and number ones alike - with a grain of salt. Chances are the numbers are genuine.
But whether someone’s song or album is number one doesn’t really amount to much more than neat trivia when you
come right down to it. It’s all in what the music does for you. So give Billy Ray Cyrus forty
number ones, for all I care. It won’t improve his voice one lick. I just wish the chart-awed media and
the radio programmers would figure that out, too.

Write for ARTS call Chris -6017
