MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

The task of Honor Council members during the trial process is to ensure fairness. The Secretary informs everyone of the
meeting place and time; no Council member but the Secretary knows who the defendant is upon his or her arrival.
When the defendant appears, a Council member may feel that a tie to the defendant or the situation should disqualify
him/her from serving. That member informs the Chair and Secretary, signs the confidentiality statement that all involved sign (in a
closed hearing), and leaves. The Secretary then finds a suitable replacement from the same class as the member who has
left, and the procedure carries on.

Throughout a hearing, there is great emphasis on the idea that, although the proceedings are formal, everyone should be clear-headed
and comfortable at all times. Therefore, if anyone feels that a break is necessary at any time - to think,
get a drink, etc. - the Chair will call for a short recess. Although the numerous short recesses draw out
an already long process, it is important that those involved not be distracted at any time.

Once everyone has signed the statement of confidentiality, the hearing may begin. After the statement of charge is read aloud
by the Solicitors, it is asked whether the evidence presented is clear and convincing. A panel member voting guilty not
only believes that there was a violation, but he or she - given the facts - also knows it. There
must be a two-thirds vote (4 of 6) to find the accused guilty; the Secretary contributes heavily to the discussion
as a free-thinking devil’s advocate but does not vote.

The next installment will continue discussing the hearing process.

November Date Set for Third Annual Bone Marrow Registry
By John Ramey

On November 18, the Project Life Committee will hold the third annual Bone Marrow Drive. It will be from 9
a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Morrison Room. The Red Cross will be typing students, faculty, and members of the
college community by drawing two tablespoons of blood from each volunteer.

Bone marrow transplants offer a potential cure for leukemia, Aplastic Anemia, and other blood diseases. Patients who cannot find a
bone marrow match among family members must search the National Bone Marrow Registry. The chances of finding a match through
the Registry is 1 in 20,000. As the number of volunteers increases, however, the odds of finding a match also
increase. A bone marrow transplant saved my life, and I hope you will consider helping other patients like me.

On June 29, 1990, I was diagnosed with Aplastic Anemia. At the time, I knew nothing about this disease, blood
counts, or bone marrow transplantation. I had always been healthy, but something like Aplastic Anemia or cancer just creeps up
on some people.

Aplastic Anemia is not a cancerous or contagious disease. It is simply the dying of bone marrow, the fluid organ
that produces red and white blood cells and platelets. Without your bone marrow, you will die either by excessive bleeding
or from infections. The bleeding is from a lack of platelets, which clot cuts on your skin as well as
any minor internal bleeding. The infections become hazardous because without white blood cells, you have no immune system; then even
common colds can be dangerous.

The accepted cure for Aplastic Anemia is a bone marrow transplant. This is where genetically matched bone marrow from a
donor is introduced into the patient. Finding a genetic match is the first serious obstacle. Siblings and relatives are the
most likely candidates. I fortunately received mine from my father, so I did not have to search the National Registry.

Before I could receive the new bone marrow, my dying marrow, as well as the remains of my immune system,
had to be destroyed by intensive chemotherapy. This was done so that when the new marrow was introduced into my
body, my old immune system could not attack it. On October 29, after five days of chemo, I was given
my father’s marrow. In order to avoid infection, I was in the same room in the hospital for 42 days,
and I had to live close by the hospital for several months.

Baker Continued from page 1

Bob Price, assistant athletic director in charge of business, echoed the comments of Millen and Beyer. He said, “We don’t
see the need being expressed” and that extending the hours would constitute an “absolute financial problem.” Price, however, expressed a
willingness to try the extended hours on a trial basis. Records of student usage at these late hours indicate a
lack of need, but Price said that if students actually want to use the facility on Friday and Saturday nights
then he will make an effort to accommodate their wishes. Price emphasized that the administration needs student input and is
interested in what they have to say.students have to say, because he said, “they're the ones paying the bills.” A
few months afterward, the crucial time period after receiving a transplant is 100 days. If you can last this long
without your body rejecting the marrow and the marrow not rejecting your body, your chances improve dramatically. I survived the
first 100 days with only a handful of frightening experiences. However, after the crucial time period, when I was home
once again, my bone marrow began to attack tissues in my body. This is called graft-versus-host disease and is dangerous
to transplantees. I was given medications which I have had to take until two months ago. The ill side effects
of these drugs are still being dealt with, but for the most part, my only struggle now is to get
back into shape. This is a very abbreviated version of my story, but because I had a match, I am
alive to tell about it. Many of the people I knew in the hospital could not find matches among their
relatives or on the registry and are not alive today to tell others about their struggles. But, if enough people
give two tablespoons of blood and get their names on the National Bone Marrow Registry, those waiting will be given
a chance.

Fulton Continued from page 2

To counter these ever-worsening problems, Fulton advocated the privatization of prisons and specialization of prison and parole projects aimed at
decreasing the number of repeat convictions. Such problems are especially important to address because the average age of criminals is
steadily decreasing, and therefore many more lives are being wasted without hope of redemption. Privatization, she argues, would bring in
the necessary capital to build much-needed new facilities and remove the cost of such projects from the taxpayers. Fulton concluded
her speech by highlighting the urgency of the changes she expounded by eloquently stating, “Criminal and justice are becoming mutually
exclusive. That is not the purpose of the system. Unless drastic changes are made, the criminal will perpetuate but justice
will die.” Judge Fulton’s speech was co-sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program and the Black Student Coalition.

Lavrov Continued from page 1

Lavrov emphasized the importance of friendly, bilateral relations with each neighbor of the Commonwealth of Independent States. A tight historical
interdependence exists but, more significantly, he says a human interdependence remains. Although he joked that the name “commonwealth” is a
misnomer because currently they are neither a common group, nor are they wealthy, Lavrov remains optimistic about the ability of
each nation within the Confederation to make real strides under Russian leadership. Lavrov also addressed the current state of the
Russian military. He said that the end of the Cold War has brought inevitable change to military policy across the
globe and that Russia is rewriting their military doctrine along the same lines as the United States. Although Lavrov said
that arms sales are “an important element of foreign policy for many countries,” Russia is in favor of tightening international
cooperation on sales.

NCSL Prepares for October Council
By T.K. Tibby

Only a summer has passed since Anni Kirkland was first highlighted in the Davidsonian. Then, she was just a freshperson
who had “rattled the North Carolina Student Legislature (NCSL) with her eloquence, confidence, and intelligence.” Kirkland’s achievements, which include being
3-0 with her written and sponsored legislation in NCSL, earned her the nickname of “Sparky” by past Delegation Chairperson Warren
Cooksey because he said that “in NCSL there is always that new individual who has a genuine enthusiasm and magnetism
that attracts and infects others with a love of legislation. This individual is a spark of hope for the organization.”
At last year’s Annual Legislative Session, she was voted by her colleagues as the Best New Delegate. This was both
an honor and an indication of her future because this award was also given to last year’s Speaker of the
House and the newly-elected governor.

Kirkland’s spark has not died. Now the Chairperson of Davidson’s Delegation to NCSL, she has outlined several goals for this
year to increase membership, recruit more schools and minority students to NCSL, and to host an Interim-Council [a monthly meeting
of the NCSL where legislation is debated]. Kirkland has achieved two of her goals thus far. Her delegation membership has
quadrupled and she was successful in her bid for the October Interim-Council, which will be held at Davidson October 23,
24, and 25. Kirkland believes that “the Interim-Council will provide an opportunity for Davidson to improve its reputation in NCSL
and also it will allow interested Davidson students the opportunity to see first-hand what NCSL is all about.” Over fifteen
different colleges will come to Davidson to debate bills and resolutions, and also to elect the Speaker of the House,
which Kirkland plans to run for. Kirkland and her delegation are extending an invitation to all interested students and faculty
to attend the sessions of the Interim-Council which will be held in Perkins Auditorium on October 24 from 11:00 a.m.
to 6:00 p.m. and on October 25 from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information contact Anni Kirkland -6303
or T.K. Tibby -6011.
