THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

Injuries Weaken J.V. Soccer Team
By David Dwyer

“From the first day we saw the freshmen,” Davidson junior varsity soccer coach Peter Cobb says, “we realized that they had a great deal of talent. We expected a lot from the start, and the team began the season playing up to our expectations. Unfortunately, we suddenly were hit by a rash of injuries.”

By the first of October, Cobb found himself coaching only ten of the twenty players originally listed on his roster, having lost the other ten to temporary injuries. A plague of injuries can severely damage a team’s hopes for a successful year, particularly when two-thirds of the team has never played on the college level before. The healthy players, however, have taken it upon themselves to step up when their teammates cannot perform.

Among the team’s strengths are its strong work ethic and the impressive play of freshman goalkeeper Howdie Coonley. Cobb and assistant coach Matt Cox are trying to institute a game plan that emphasizes short touches on the ball and aggressive tackling. As the season has progressed, the coaches have seen a noticeable change in these two aspects of the team’s play, but continue to look for further improvement.

Davidson began the season with a 3-1 victory over Brevard and a 1-1 tie with the club team from UNC-Chapel Hill, but things began to go downhill from there. Davidson lost its next three games, to Spartanburg Methodist, Catawba, and UNC-Charlotte, making their current record 1-3-1. Played in a downpour, the victory over Brevard demonstrated that determination and hard work often prevail over skill alone.

A year ago, the J.V. team finished the season at 8-2, but Cobb was quick to point out that that team faced a considerably easier schedule and stayed relatively free of injuries. Despite the plague of injuries afflicting the 1992 squad, Cobb still expects good things from his group. As the season progresses, players will continue to recover and, hopefully, will return to their optimal playing level. Though struggling at this point, Davidson’s J.V. soccer team should revert to its winning ways and prove to be extremely competitive throughout the remainder of the season.

Rugby Stomps Western Carolina
By Dack Stackhouse

On September 26, the Davidson Rugby Club played one of its best games in recent history: Taking on Western Carolina University in front of a large home crowd, the Wildcats showed enormous potential and began a streak towards a possible Division I state championship. Davidson played hard as a team and won the game 34-17.

The scoring began early in the first half when Scotch Turner took a penalty run into the try zone. However, WCU wasted no time in scoring a try of their own to tie the game at seven apiece. Davidson had trouble getting into the try zone for a while, but Tim Dancy, who did not miss a kick all day, kept the team going with two penalty kicks for three points each. With the Wildcats leading 13-7, WCU came back with another try to go ahead 14-13. This proved to be the only time the Wildcats would slip behind.

As Scotch Turner said, “We opened a can of serious whoop-@#% on these guys.” Davidson never looked back, as Chris Reinking powered his way to a try from five meters out. Shortly thereafter, Edwin Thomas broke away on the outside for a thirty-meter run to the try zone. Dancy finished off the day’s scoring with a try of his own, making the game against WCU probably the best that he has ever played.

In a sport where team effort makes the difference, it is difficult to point out individuals who stand out. However, Dancy’s kicking must be mentioned because he did not miss all day, despite some sharp-angled conversions. Other standouts on the day were Bob Yarbrough, Matt Dormer, and Tag Kleiner, who ran and tackled as hard as anyone. Other hard hitters included David Rozelle and Rafael Candelario, two of the most vicious players in the state. Of course, congratulations are due to all who scored a try, but behind each of those tries was a large amount of support from other players. The players in the scrum (a thankless and unnoticed place to...play) walked all over WCU’s scrum, one time pushing them about thirty meters down the field. The scrum players also did a fantastic job of supporting the backs. The backs all played an amazing game as well. They ran set plays and supported each other in a way they have never done before. The game on Saturday showed that the Wildcats are re-emerging as the rugby powerhouse that they used to be.

Men's Tennis Impressive in Fall Season Opener
By Brannon Buck

The Davidson men’s tennis team opened its fall season during Parent’s Weekend with a blowout win against UNC-Charlotte. Albie Varoski led the team at the number one position, winning his match 6-1, 6-2 in impressive fashion. The rest of the top six, Russell Briggs, Holt Vaughan, Dan Grinnan, Dave Tonidandel, and Syan Harper, followed suit to sweep the singles matches. Davidson also dominated the doubles action. Briggs and Harper won at the number one spot, 6-4, 7-5, and the other Davidson teams were victorious as well. In addition to the normal six and three match format for singles and doubles, Davidson coach Jeff Frank arranged to play extra matches against UNC-Charlotte. These matches also went well for the home team, and the final match score ended 16-2 in favor of Davidson.

This past Saturday, the team captured twin 9-0 wins over Queens and Belmont Abbey. Dave Kim stood out in singles against Belmont Abbey; he lost only one point in taking a 6-0, 6-0 victory.

WANTED
Writers needed for all sections of the Davidsonian. Please contact Walter Price in the Davidsonian office at -2148 if interested.

ISAA Top 25 (9/29)
1. Virginia
2. UCLA
3. Duke
4. St. Louis
5. Clemson
6. Washington
7. Bowling Green
8. James Madison
9. South Carolina
10. St. John’s
11. Penn State
12. Boston U.
13. Creighton
14. Southern Methodist
15. Indiana
16. San Diego
17. Adelphi
18. UNC-Charlotte
19. Dartmouth
20. George Mason
21. Stanford
22. SIU-Edwardsville
23. William and Mary
24. Rutgers
25. Santa Clara

Top 20 (9/29)
1. Virginia
2. UCLA
3. Duke
4. South Carolina
5. Clemson
6. St. Louis
7. James Madison
8. Southern Methodist
9. Indiana
10. N.C. State
11. Penn State
12. Wake Forest
13. George Mason
14. San Francisco
15. UNC-Charlotte
16. Portland
17. Washington
18. Fresno State
19. Stanford
20. Boston U.

Be a sport and write for Bruce

OCTOBER LATE NITE SPECIAL
Large Cheese Pizza $4.99 plus tax
Add'l. Toppings Only $1.00
Hours: 10 p.m.-Close
Call Us! 896-8007
Shops On The Green
Hours: 4:00 pm - 12 Midnight Sunday-Thursday
4:00 pm - 1:00 am Friday-Saturday

CLIP AND SAVE THESE VALUABLE COUPONS

2+2+2 $7.49!
Medium 2-Topping Pizza
PLUS TWO 12 oz. cans of Coca-Cola® classic or diet Coke®

$12.99 plus tax
2 Large 2-Topping Pizzas with 2 Liter Coke/Diet Coke
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
©1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Cash Value 1/20¢
(Expires Oct. 19, 1992)

Buy Any Large Pizza For The Price Of A Small...
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
©1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Cash Value 1/20¢
(Expires Oct. 19, 1992)

Buy Two Medium Pizzas For The Price Of A Large...
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
©1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Cash Value 1/20¢
(Expires Oct. 19, 1992)