THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

Bob Sutton, Vice-President for Business and Finance, was a recipient of the proposal, and for a number of reasons, dislikes the idea. Mr. Sutton said in the September 8 issue, “I don’t like the idea. I think [the post office] is an important link between the students and the town.” I couldn’t agree any more. One of Davidson’s greatest strengths is the warm relationship between the College and the town. Davidson students are quasi-residents of the town. We support restaurants and businesses, provide jobs and services, and attend church and other community events. We live here. I am certain that we are occasionally a bother and a burden, but the town must see with our tuition dollars to consider the possibility of placing a subsidized postal facility on campus, thereby removing the students from the Post Office on Main Street.

Any marketing analyst would agree that the Post Office is Main Street’s primary draw. The Post Office is at the heart of the town in many ways. It is, more than anything else, a tangible connection between the students and the community. I am certain that the volume of college-related mail is tremendous, but it seems that hiring more postal workers, perhaps even enlarging the building, would adequately ease the burden. Such a course of action may even undercut the expense of creating and subsidizing an on-campus facility. But irrespective of cost, the price of removing students from the center of town would be greatest in terms of what such a move would do to community relations and the patronage of Main Street businesses. Let the Postmaster, Elaine Conner, know how you feel.

Beyond Birkenstock: J. Kyle Kinner & Seth J. McLaughlin

Bill Clinton and his Propaganda

Whoo... we’re back in the saddle again. Week after week we pull the ‘ole horse out of the barn, dust her off, and ride her down to the ‘ole Davidsonian office to round us up another column. It ain’t easy bein’ the only cowpokes on the range whose outlook on life is somewhere to the right of Bill Clinton’s. In fact, the townsfolk get downright ornery when we point out what they’re steppin’ in when they amble through the half-truths and outright lies that “Slick Willie” leaves in his wake. Makes us feel like we’ve been rode hard and put up wet.

Did ya’ll know (enough of this affected “Western” motif) that Bill Clinton, in the course of his infamous “gubernatorial years,” had the gall, the audacity, yea... the hubris to personally raise the taxes of the good people of Arkansas ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY SEVEN TIMES! No, we kid you not. But before you Democrats get your teamsters in an uproar (quick, what do you call a teamster in a suit? Answer: the defendant), we should tell you that this bit of trivia came straight from Little Rock. Now, George Stephanopoulos (Clinton’s chief propagandist) did pause for a moment from scaring the old people about Bush’s unwholesome intentions toward their S. S. checks to reply to this apparent scandal. “What the Republicans did is jerry-rig... a bunch of phony tax increases.” Not so, Mr. Dukakanopoulus. In fact, the Republican party was merely fulfilling its civic responsibility to bring to the fore any facts pertinent to the selection of a Presidential candidate.

Don’t Tread On Me: Tom Nema

Bring Back My Chicken Filets & Burritos.

Dr. Sutton, let me praise you for your research. Those facts and figures were mighty impressive, but I’m afraid you missed my point. Let me quote the article to try to explain my point, “By the definition above, tokenism is practiced at Davidson College. The College appears to be answering the problems of African-American students, when in all actuality they are not.” My point was to draw attention to what I perceive as a poor job of dealing with minority affairs by Davidson College. The problems that I talked about were the low number of African-American students, lack of appealing social activities, and the small number of African-American related courses and professors.

The only mention of the Admissions Department came at the end when I suggested that Davidson re-evaluate its admission standards. My class’ SAT average was about 1220, which is pretty high. I understand that colleges such as Oberlin, Amherst, and Swarthmore all compete with Davidson for the African-American students who meet these high standards. So, I was extremely disturbed by your unprofessional comments such as, “[T]o suggest that we keep out black applicants who should be admitted so that we may practice tokenism is ludicrous.” I will not even stoop to this level because I never made such a claim. Dr. Sutton, I suggest you re-read my article so that you can understand my point.To respond, understand what I really said. I’m sorry, let me move on to this week's topic. This week, I want to talk about the Union Outpost. Whose idea was this anyway? The Union Outpost sucks. Take a look at the menu and see the plethora of items. This list was compiled by Republicans, probably as a cynical means of drumming up votes. It's much more than that now. It's THE TRUTH... something of which Democrats are especially wary. According to the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration (a state agency under Clinton’s direction), 34 tax increases and 93 user fee increases were recorded during Clinton’s tenure. Of course, we should remind you that Bush accused Clinton of raising taxes 128 times. So, the Clinton list has one less revenue increase than the Bush list. The last one will probably be enacted the day after Clinton takes office. This one’s a biggie. According to White House sources, it could total ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY BILLION DOLLARS!!! No surprise then, that Bill Clinton allegedly declared “we [must]... raise and spend.” (OK, it's slightly out of context). According to Washington Post columnists Dan Balz and Ruth Marcus, in the course of a one-hour session, “Clinton pledged to spend more money on: education, job training, housing, transportation, elderly Americans, commercial research and development, college aid, Head Start, AIDS research and education, women’s health problems, and community policing.” Promises you know what’s really on his mind. Say hello to tax and spend, ladies and gentlemen, and it’s coming to a suburb near you. He’s already raised taxes 127 times back in Podunk, USA. Do you think Clinton would balk at gouging the middle class as a means of delivering the impossibly expensive promises all Democrats intone on the road to the White House? Each and every item on Slick Willie’s wish list is noble, good, and true. But the last time we checked, the debt was pushing four trillion and the prospects of even making a dent in the 300-400 billion ‘93-’94 deficit are pretty slim indeed. Assuming Clinton eliminates the ENTIRE defense appropriation (and he probably will), that’s still only 200 billion to play around with. So, we’re still in the hole and the Canadians could invade us. Who needs that? It is as evident to us as it should be to you that the numbers don’t add up. Someone who has repeatedly raised taxes in his own state (one wonders if the Arkansans can still buy food since Clinton raised the sales tax) cannot be allowed to hedge on this critical issue. Before you hold Bush’s broken campaign pledge over his head like some sword of Damocles, consider who’s more likely to stick it to you. In addition, he promised the American Legion “virtually everything they cared about, from hospital beds to protection of the flag.” No wonder Tsongas called him Pander Bear. At least Fritz Mondale had the courage to tell us he’d raise taxes. Sure, Clinton said he’d only raise taxes on the wealthiest two percent of the population, but with all these food choices: an omelette, a pizza, two kinds of sandwiches, a bagel, yogurt, OJ, milk, V-8, coffee, tea, and a 2 oz. bag (actually 1 oz.) of potato chips. The Outpost doesn’t have any of the popular Cafe items such as: grilled cheese sandwiches, chicken filets, mac & cheese, burritos, chips & salsa, candy, and many others. As if that weren’t bad enough, you can only buy a soft drink out of a machine. You can’t buy Gatorade or the many fruit drinks that are offered by the Cafe. But the menu is not the only reason the Union Outpost is a terrible idea. When the Outpost is open, the Union Cafe closes. That means that the Cafe closes at 11 P.M. on Wednesday, Thursday and at 8 P.M. on Friday, Saturday. Picture this. You are in the library studying on Wednesday, and you suddenly get a craving for your favorite flavor of Ben & Jerry's ice cream. In the good old days, you could run to the Union, eat your ice cream, and be back in the library in fifteen minutes. Unfortunately, those days are gone. Your only option is to go to the Outpost and eat something you probably don’t want like a $5.00 pizza. This fiasco should take you between 30-45 minutes. I think I speak for the majority of the students when I say the Union Outpost is a flop. I know that the idea looked really good on the drawing board, but as my RA put it, “[Y]ou’re screwed if you are in the library.” William Brown, I’m begging you, give us back our chicken filets and burritos.

GREEKS & CLUBS
PLUS $1000 FOR THE MEMBER WHO CALLS!
No obligation. No cost. You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling ~ 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65