Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992 NUMBER 1

Davidson professor Hansford Epes with Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek during Epes' appearance on the show's Senior Tournament.

Epes Jams on Television's Jeopardy!
By Sean Lind

During the first two weeks of July, Hansford Epes, Davidson professor of German and Humanities, appeared as a contestant on NBC’s Jeopardy! game show. Epes won his first tournament game decisively, $16,000 to $0 and the second narrowly, $23,001 to $23,000 (both in points, or “funny” money) to move into the semifinals. There he also fared well, bringing home $11,100 in winnings as well as some nice parting gifts.

To be on the show, Epes answered a Jeopardy! ad in the Observer and became one of twenty-three people selected during the Charlotte tryouts in late December of last year. Epes was then invited to appear as one of 15 contestants in a special “Seniors Tournament.” The Tournament, for contestants over fifty years of age, was taped in Hollywood February 24-25. Unlike normal Jeopardy! contestants, who must pay for their trip to Hollywood as well as room and board, Tournament contestants were flown by Jeopardy! to California and given lodging at the Beverly Hills Hilton.

Epes was “reasonably pleased” with his Jeopardy! appearance. The best part of the experience, explained Epes, was getting to meet and talk with other contestants - “a diverse and interesting group of folks from all over the country.” What was it like to be on America’s #2 rated game show? Although he was not worried before the show, Epes admitted “the nerves really hit when I heard the announcer say, ‘now entering our studios are...’”

In answer to the question on everyone’s mind - what is Alex Trebek really like? - Epes answered: “He’s a very calm, pleasant man; very professional. He knows his stuff.” And the lesson to be learned from all of this? In the words of Epes, “Humes pays off.”

New Court Alcohol Policy Takes Effect
By Kevin Miller

This year marks a new era for Davidson’s Patterson Court with the implementation of the new Alcohol Policy. Amid last year’s controversial report on “Rebuilding Community” the Board of Trustees approved this new policy in an effort to “uphold the laws of North Carolina in regard to the consumption of alcohol, namely that only those twenty-one years of age and older may consume alcohol on the Davidson campus.”

SGA President Anthony Foxx said, “I supported the policy because I felt that students had ample influence in its design.” He went on to say that the college had to create a new policy because under the old policy it was extremely vulnerable to liability for any unfortunate situations that could arise at functions in which alcohol is served. He also said that it was tough for him to support such an unpopular policy, but that in the short and long term the change was for the best. “It was inevitable that the college would pass a policy that the students wouldn’t like,” he said. Foxx also predicts that there are further adjustments to be made in the new policy so as to accommodate students' needs, but that only time will tell what and when these accommodations will come about. Below are some highlights of the new policy:

See "Alcohol" on page 5

Administration Suspends Fraternity For '92-'93 School Year
By Tom Koonce & Tom Price

At the end of the 1992 Spring semester, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity was suspended from participation on Patterson Court by President John Kuykendall and Dean Will Terry. This suspension began on August 1 and will last for the entire 1992-93 school year. The earliest date that SAE can petition for reinstatement on Patterson Court is the fall of 1993.

SAE received their suspension after holding a pledge activity on April 25 specifically forbidden by the Dean of Students. Dean Terry explicitly told former SAE president Steve Lilly that if such activities were held he would have no choice but to suspend SAE from the Davidson campus. In a letter to the parents of SAE brothers sent out June 23, Dean Terry stated, “...the event occurred on April 25 without the knowledge or agreement of many members of the fraternity, including the current [new] president and vice president.” Terry also said, “The irony in all of this is that many of the people who were responsible will not bear the burden for the defiant act of April 25. I am sorry, truly sorry, about that but given the current...Climate on campus, a climate which SAE helped very much to create throughout the year, there is no choice.” Despite SAE’s removal from Patterson Court, the fraternity intends to maintain a unified presence on campus. SAE president David Lindsay said, “The attitude of the house has been overwhelmingly positive and unified towards making our ‘year abroad’ a success.” In addition to weekly meetings held in Eumenean Hall, David Lindsay said that the fraternity will embark on two new major service projects: cooperating with See "SAE" on page 4.

Class of 1996 at Orientation
By Sally Stone

Freshmen Orientation for the class of 1996 began on Thursday, August 22 as nervous first-year students lined up by 8:30 am for the early-morning registration. From Union Board members to Dean Terry, Davidson College was ready to greet the newest members of its community. Many Orientation traditions continued this year and were combined with new ideas to help the freshmen make an easy transition into the Davidson lifestyle. Director of Residence Life Richard Terry believed that logistically, this year’s Orientation ran exceptionally well. The Chapel committee’s move-in services received unanimous praise from Dean Will Terry, Richard Terry, freshmen, and their parents. A new addition to the schedule was a small group discussion of the novel "Waiting for the Barbarians," sent to every freshman this summer. Richard Terry explained that the intention of having freshmen read this book was that it provided a way to make a statement to incoming students about Davidson College as a community. While individual opinions varied among the various groups, Terry summarized the effort as wholly successful.

One of the problems cited with orientation was the distribution of schedules followed by a drop/add period all in the same afternoon. Hallmates Ben Schleafer and Will Robinson expressed concern and surprise at not receiving their expected classes. Schleafer felt “no fair warning” was given that schedules would probably have to be adjusted, especially so quickly after See "1996" on page 5.

Union Outpost to Open September 9
By May Martin

The house at Number Three Patterson Court, known to some as old Warner Hall or Old Connor House, has a new identity—the Union Outpost. The Dean of Students Office, the Union, and Auxiliary Services are working together to create this experimental facility, which will hold a grand opening ceremony on Wednesday, September 9. The idea for the vacant house originated last year as the need for more varied social options emerged. “The Patterson Court scene doesn’t seem to suit the needs of most students,” Dean of Students Will Terry said, “The Outpost will allow the Union and other groups to program in a location that is geographically in the center of social life.” The house will provide food service Wednesdays and Thursdays from 11 pm to 3 am, and Fridays and Saturdays from 8 pm to 3 am. Terry hopes students who have been drinking and are looking for a late-night meal will opt for the Outpost instead of driving to Cornelius for late-night snacks. The Union sees the house as an extension of the Grey Union building. In addition to providing a hangout for all students, the house will be used for concerts, meetings, and other events. A Union employee will staff the Outpost, which will house vending machines, a jukebox, a ping pong table, video games, other games like chess or Trivial Pursuit to check out, and a TV. In addition to the cafe hours, the house will be open for informal student recreation Monday through Saturday from 9 to 11 pm. Groups may schedule meetings at the Outpost Monday through Thursday from 7 to 9 pm through Lynda Daniels (-2174). Director of Auxiliary Services Carleton Pritchard plans on opening the cafe 50 days this semester. “I am enthusiastic about this project. The cafe is in a good location for students in the senior apartments, down the hill, or even the dorms up the hill.” Pizza, sandwiches, eggs to order, and other snacks will be offered in a mostly self-serve atmosphere. The cafe will accept Catcards as soon as the system is installed. The cafe will be run by See "Union" on page 5.

INSIDE
NEWS: Habitat for Humanity Opens Thrift Store on Main Street. See Page 2.
DIRECTORY: 1992-1993 Student Directory. See Pages 7-10.
OPINIONS: Hey, Spain's Back. See Page 11. Kirtley Offers Insight On Presidential Election. See Page 11.
SPORTS: Fall Sports Previews. See Pages 13-15.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036