THE DAVIDSONIAN. ADVERTISEMENT WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

A Response to the Select Committee

The Select Committee’s report, which appeared on March 13, 1992, contains distortions which should be known to the Davidson College
community. The committee was chaired by Robert Williams, Dean of the Davidson College Faculty.

The committee reports that it spoke with 29 students, 5 faculty, and 11 staff members. Those numbers amount to 1.9%
of the student body, 4% of the faculty, and 2% of the Davidson College Staff. Of the 29 students, 9
were SAEs. (5 other SAEs were turned away by the committee.)

The inaccuracies in the report are as follows:

1. Page 4, first paragraph, “The recent boycotting of SAE by Warner Hall and Rusk House suggest that women may
now be taking a stronger stand.”

FACT: Rusk House, on February 4, 1992, voted to withdraw from all parties with the SAE house for the rest
of this academic year. On February 11, a four-person delegation from SAE met with all of the members of Rusk
House. The SAEs went to hear the concerns of the women and then acted upon those concerns. The following night,
February 12, the women of Rusk House voted to modify their withdrawal until Spring Break (this break began on March
6 and ended on March 16). On March 17, Rusk House held a final vote to determine whether or not
it would have parties with SAE for the rest of this academic year. The motion to reinstate social functions with
SAE was passed by a majority of the women of Rusk. The committee is right in saying this shows that
women are taking a stand on the Davidson Campus. It also shows, however, how two groups can work together effectively
to resolve a potentially hostile situation in a logical, straightforward manner. The women of Warner Hall never boycotted SAE. They
did express concerns about the behavior of some SAEs, but they continued to cooperate with the fraternity.

2. Page 5, seventh paragraph, “The only case of a recorded harassment call is that made on November 23, 1991,
by a white male SAE to a Puerto Rican student. The background to the call involved a fight at the
SAE house where there had been excessive consumption of alcohol and where the Puerto Rican student had struck the caller’s
roommate in the face.”

FACT: The event taking place at the SAE house was a date function that was for the brothers of SAE
and invited guests only. Such events are commonplace at Davidson. The Puerto Rican student was not on the guest list.
He arrived with several other students (who also were not invited to the party), proceeded to enter the SAE house,
go behind the bar, and search for alcohol. The student was intoxicated when he entered the SAE house. None of
this information was included in the report. Furthermore, the committee’s report says on this same page (5, third paragraph) that
only two cases of harassment have been reported to the Dean of Students office this year. At the top of
page 6, the report says that this incident is an “archetypal case in that it involved harassment of a minority
student...and the SAE fraternity.” If one were to read solely by the numbers, then a member of SAE would be
responsible for 50% of the reported harassment cases on campus this year. What the committee fails to acknowledge is that
the 50% is really 1 out of 2 cases, which means that someone else, who is not a member of
the SAE fraternity, is responsible for 50% of the reported harassment cases on Davidson’s campus as well.

3. Page 6, first full paragraph, “Another case of alleged harassment was the bombarding of minority students by water balloons
and eggs by SAE members and prospective members.”at an outdoor party in early September.” FACT - The group of SAEs
present at this event, which took place on Richardson Field, shot a very small number of (under 10) water balloons
towards the basketball court which was located on the other side of the football stadium. There were KAs on the
court and it was considered to be a prank towards them as both houses share in a friendly rivalry. One
of the balloons landed short of its intended mark and hit the ground near minority students. There were at least
two minority students present with the SAEs while this was going on. While it certainly was not a smart decision
to shoot water balloons at any other students, it is in no way conceivable or plausible that there was a
“bombarding of minority students,” which leads one to believe that the entire incident was a pre-conceived, racially motivated act of
violence. Indeed, as this explanation points out, nothing could be further from the truth. The president of SAE was asked
about this incident when he spoke with the committee and he told them exactly what happened. The committee failed to
acknowledge that he had spoken about this and his views did not appear in the report.

4 - Page 7, sixth paragraph, “The ‘brotherhood’ [within SAE] appears to espouse a code of silence which places loyalty
to the fraternity above the rules of Davidson College.” FACT - Just as they were Davidson students before they were
members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, so too is it true that SAE brothers are bound to their school first and
their fraternity second. Therefore, this is not a fact and should be stricken from the report because it leads people
to think negatively towards SAE, something an unbiased committee would not want to promote.

5 - Page 7, later in the sixth paragraph, “Some SAEs are the sons of Davidson alumni and trustees and
were admitted as legacies.” FACT - This statement implies that SAEs are the only students at Davidson College who are
legacies. This is not true. The school’s admission policy does favor alumni children, but no student is admitted to Davidson
College unless he or she has proven that he or she can do the work and compete at this level.
If the committee wishes to investigate why certain students are on this campus, we suggest it go to the admissions
office and not to the SAE house.

6 - Page 7, seventh paragraph, “Both students and faculty believe that the SAEs have been virtually untouchable in matters
of reprehensible behavior. They have called them ‘arrogant,’ ‘slick,’ ‘sexist,’ ‘violent,’ ‘isolated,’ ‘self-centered,’ ‘influential,’ and ‘intimidating.’” FACT - This statement
implies that all students and all faculty view the SAEs as being this way. In a report that cites less
than 2% of the student body and in no way included interviewing, as groups, campus leaders such as SGA members,
past and present Hall Counselors, Union Board members, CCRL members, Patterson Court Presidents, and others, it is not accurate or
just to conclude and make such a sweeping statement. Again, this statement only focuses on negatives, omitting any positive statements
about SAE and the things its members have done to better the college community.

7 - Page 8, paragraph one, “The current SAEs view themselves as ‘the tightest group on campus’ quite separate from
the college community.” FACT - Current, as well as past, SAEs always have prided themselves on their closeness. The ideal
and love of friendship should not be misconstrued and twisted into something negative. Furthermore, if the SAEs really viewed themselves
as “quite separate from the College community” then why would they do the service projects that they do annually? Why
would they annually raise and give substantially more money to Davidson College than any other student group on campus (over
$300,000 in the last four years alone)? Why would
