THE DAVIDSONIAN - NEWS _ MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992 ~ 5

Jewish Author, Filmmaker Speaks at Davidson
By Kyle Kinner

On October 5th, Davidson College hosted the distinguished Jewish author and filmmaker, Jerome Badanes. Following the public screening of Badanes’ documentary “Image Before My Eyes,” the author addressed aspects of the film’s subject, Pre-WWII Polish-Jewish culture, and read from his recently published novel, The Final Opus of Leon Solomon (Simon and Schuster, 1990). Badanes participated in Karl Plank’s senior religion seminar, Holocaust and the Construction of Memory earlier that day. The following represents a portion of Mr. Badanes’ responses to questions raised about his life and work.

“...anyway, YIVO [an institute constituted for the study of Jewish culture, YIVO was the primary sponsor of Badanes’ efforts] was making a film. That’s where I came in. They asked a number of people to work on the film and I was one of these people. My interest in the film was sort of complicated; a number of reasons, one of which [was that] I needed the money.

“I had come from an emigrant household. I was born right before the war and I was raised in a Yiddish-speaking [environment], Yiddish was my first language. I was a homebound kid because I was underweight, I was colic, so I stayed in the house a lot with my mother and my mother was also a Yiddish folk-singer. But when I became big enough to play in the streets I discovered that Yiddish was not helping me, that I needed English; and I spoke English with a very thick... accent, and therefore I was given a hard time by the kids, not just gentile kids, but Jewish kids as well.

“My neighborhood was in Brooklyn, New York. The neighborhood is called Bensonhurst, which has recently become infamous because [of] a terrible racial incident there. There were only Jews and Italians living in Bensonhurst when I was growing up, in fact I thought that the world consisted of Jews and Italians. The only two political parties that I was familiar with when I was growing up, the two major political parties, were the Democrats and the Communists. There were no Republicans; I was spared growing up with Republicans... and I thank God for that.

“So, I grew up in that kind of atmosphere, and I wanted to be a regular kid on the streets and play softball and basketball. Well, they didn’t play basketball in Yiddish in Brooklyn and I had to learn English. And it was hard. My grandmother would walk me to school and I would hate when she spoke Yiddish to me. I really wanted to unlearn Yiddish. But what I didn’t unlearn were...

GREEKS & CLUBS
PLUS $1000 FOR THE MEMBER WHO CALLS!
No obligation. No cost. You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65

LAKE NORMAN’S PREMIERE OPTICAL BOUTIQUE
Fountain Plaza Hwy. 73 West
AFFILIATED WITH LAKE NORMAN EYE CLINIC:
STEVEN FRIEDMAN, O.D.
EDWARD R. STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O.
Licensed Optician
Davidson, NC 28036
704/892-9117

"Come Check Out The New Fall Merchandise"
10% off with Davidson ID through Fall Break
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.the cultural lessons and the cultural values of my parents. They were not Communists but they weren’t anti-Communists, and in the fifties this country was consumed by anti-Communism. “Social justice was very important, so for example, it seemed for me a part of being Jewish, when I got a little older, to be a part of the civil rights movement. And then later, to become part of the movement to end the war in Vietnam. That seemed to me to be part of being Jewish, part of what my parents taught me. And that I kept intact; but the Yiddish part was pushed away.

“The film was an opportunity for me to reach back into that world I came from. So for me, it was a great three years of rediscovering who I was. It was very exciting. I found actually, I was embarrassed to speak Yiddish with my colleagues at the YIVO institute because I spoke it so brokenly. But I found that I could really communicate with some of these [surviving Jews] when I started interviewing them [for the documentary]. So the reason I chose to work on the film was an attempt to reclaim that part of my background.

“I was also brought up in an atmosphere of the Holocaust... most of the members of my mother’s family and my father’s family were in Poland and they were murdered. During the war, I remember, every night my father listening to the radio, and what he was listening for was news about Jews. If you look, if you do research back in that period, you might see little articles about genocide on page 18 of the New York Times. Little, tiny articles; it wasn’t big news... the big news was the war and the battles that were raging. It was these experiences that I carried with me as I grew up and became a writer, and became active in the civil rights movement and the anti-war movement. But I missed the taste of Yiddish, and this film was an opportunity to reclaim that for myself.

“When you make a film... first I interviewed on tape, and then I transcribed all the tapes myself because I wanted to have them inside me. I lived with them for a number of years. When you make a film, you make choices. You don’t use everything you get; in fact, you film at a ten to one ratio and you film ten hours to make a one-hour film. And so I was haunted by the films we didn’t make, and all those other stories. But since the film was not about the Holocaust, but about the culture that was destroyed, we de-emphasized, in making the film, everyone’s Holocaust [memories]...

“Almost all the people I interviewed were survivors and most of them could not speak about the lives that they lived before without first talking about the Holocaust. I had story after story about the Holocaust. You never know what you can use.”

---

RAFTERS

Serving the best in traditional Southern Foods

Tues.-Fri. Lunch: 11-2; Dinner: 5-9
Saturday Dinner: 5-9
Wednesday-College Night
Special on Selected Appetizers (1/2-Price)
Discount on Beer
Occasional ENTERTAINMENT
Weekend Specials include grilled swordfish and broiled salmon
Entrees include fresh vegetables
To Go Orders — Daily Lunch Specials
761 N. Main St. Mooresville, NC
904/663-7322