THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 5

Post Office

Continued from page 1

was a little put out that “the post office thinks we’re such a bother,” and said it wasn’t reasonable to assume that vandalism was necessarily student-caused.

Elaine Conner, Davidson’s Postmaster, said that was not the case. “We love the Davidson College students. That’s not the problem. What we want to do is provide an on-campus postal service for their convenience.”

But Bob Sutton, Vice-President for Business and Finance for Davidson, feels the proposal as it now stands does not come anywhere near meeting the college’s needs. First, where would the new facility be located? Second, how would cost be divided between the College and the Post Office for its construction?

Sutton said “I don’t like the idea. I think [the post office] is an important link between the students and the town.” The post office facilitates a support relationship between town and college, and the new proposal would seem to further isolate the students and the college from the surrounding community.

Since January, the College has been more involved in the postal process, and already provides some on-campus postal services. Central Services sells stamps, handles incoming and outgoing UPS, Federal Express, Certified Mail, Express Mail, Next-Day and Overnight for faculty, staff, and students.

Spencer

Continued from page 1

that...[Spencer] has ended. Nevertheless, the women of Spencer House meet this transition looking forward to continued and expanded participation in the life of Davidson College.” Dean Terry felt the closing to be unfortunate but believed it to be a commentary on the fluid nature and “capricious existence” on Patterson Court.

Patterson Court President David Wright said that the closing of Spencer leaves a void and that the eating house’s role on the Court will be missed. Fortunately, the three remaining eating houses are “flexible enough” and “healthy enough” to fill the void left by Spencer’s termination.

The Spencer House building now sits empty. According to Dean Terry, in the future it might be used as a coed eating house. It also might possibly even function as the future SAE house if the fraternity is readmitted to Patterson Court.

Want to Sell Something?

Use the Davidsonian Classifieds to Advertise (As long as it’s legal) Coming Soon. Contact Harrison at 6200 or 2148 for more info.

Make Leslie Happy and Recycle this

PAY FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL.

Today’s Air Force offers a scholarship program that can help pay the cost of medical school. If selected, you can continue your present studies — and stop worrying about how to pay for them. Participation is based on competitive selection. For information with no obligation, talk to an Air Force representative. Call USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS COLLECT 919-850-9673

Apple Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40

Get over $400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever.

And if you are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and only at your authorized Apple campus reseller.

For further information visit Computer Services Center Contact Susie Abernethy at x2432

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. PowerBook is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a trademark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic Thesaurus, and CorrecText® developed by Houghton Mifflin Company; publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by Language Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResuméWriter is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 configuration only. All qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instructions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer.

Apple Macintosh Classic II

Apple Macintosh LC II

The Macintosh. Student Aid Package.

Apple Macintosh IIsi