THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

SAE Continued from page 1

While there was some dissension in the house to the action, Wallace said, “Nobody has completely stated that Rusk needs to back down and change its mind.” She also said that the motion was voted on that night because, “more time would have put us at a great risk and made us more vulnerable.” She said, “The motion was passed because of an attitude, fears, and feelings over time... not just specifically because of the five incidents mentioned in the letter.”

When asked why she has not let others outside of Rusk read this letter, Wallace said, “The individual things aren’t the most important, it's a feeling that people have.” She also stated that if the real problem is to be addressed, it must go deeper than just analyzing a few specific incidents.

SAE President Steve Lilly is confident that relations between his house and Rusk will get better. A delegation from SAE will speak at Rusk’s next house meeting, and each house’s faculty adviser will be present. Lilly said, “We’re all obviously looking forward to the discussion between our two houses this Tuesday.”

According to A.T. Miller, the letter that he printed up last Thursday was intended only for a select few members of the faculty and staff. Miller “felt a sense of urgency” and drafted the letter after hearing these allegations only the night before. He did not plan on this letter to be distributed across campus and also stated that it “wasn’t written for the Trustees.” The letter does explicitly call on the Trustees to “take steps to halt these violent and illegal activities at Davidson.” Miller said that this letter was meant to be a prelude to presenting these concerns to a faculty committee but admitted that its distribution was not controlled well.

The letter begins: “There is a violent and dangerous group of students within the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity who have been threatening the lives and safety of other students on campus and destroying the reputation of their own organization.” It goes on to describe various incidents that display such alleged actions of harassment and violence.

The controversy over this letter involves its many inaccuracies and statements based only on rumor. Miller said, “I obviously didn’t find out the truth about the actions.” He also said, “The research was inadequate, the point was, is the system working?” He stated that he spoke with Dean Terry about the allegations but he failed to mention to Dean Terry his intentions to write the letter. He believed that in his conversation with Dean Terry he had confirmed some of the incidents mentioned in the letter. Miller said, “I was tired of hearing lots of talk about these rumors.” Miller also said that he had talked to several members of SAE last semester about the direction of the house.

Miller acknowledged that he had not talked to any members of SAE in the weeks prior to composing or distributing the letter.

---

A Challenge to Serve: Ministry in the Inner City
Second Annual Symposium on Christian Ethics
Saturday, February 15, 10:00-2:00
Davidson College Presbyterian Church
Keynote Speaker: Rev. Mark Lomax
Keynote AddressPanelist Discussions and Lunch, ($3.00) Sponsored by the Campus Ministry Committee, DCPC, and the Chaplain's Committee, Davidson College. ALL MEMBERS OF THE COLLEGE COMMUNITY ARE INVITED.

110 S. Main St. Heart's Desire... Remember your Valentines with cards, stuffed toys, frames, and novelties from The Village Store. We have a large selection of heart-felt gifts and will be happy to wrap your purchases for free and provide shipping service. Valentine's Day is Friday, February 14.

Davidson College Pond has been #1 with us for 25 years! Davidson Historical Site said, “No, I didn’t talk to them about the incidents mentioned, that was a mistake.” Lilly said that in a house meeting last Thursday night he invited anybody to talk with him one-on-one about problems they might have and he would not disclose their name to anyone else. Many of the alleged incidents involve individuals and when asked why it appeared in the letter that SAE was being attacked as a group, Miller said there is a “fuzzy line between what is done as an individual and what is done as a group.” He said that the SAE’s he knows are “fine individuals, but my concern is what happens in the group, what is the dynamic down there.” He believes that the letter has had mixed results. Miller said it is positive that all this talk and complaints have finally come out and that it's important for students to know that there were some on the faculty who supported the call for action to be taken against this alleged violence and harassment. “I don’t think these are problems that should be solved only by Rusk.” He also added that the negative aspects of the letter are that “members of SAE have felt persecuted and stigmatized.” He also regretted the phrasing of the letter and apologized again for his poor handling of its distribution.

The letter mentions an incident involving two women who were verbally abused and ended up soaking wet on the floor at SAE on self-selection night. Lilly said, “I don’t know all the details of that evening, only the two women involved know that.” This incident remains unclear but Miller states in his second letter that the women “provided a written statement and wish to remain anonymous.” Another incident involving SAE also remains unclear. A few weeks ago several visiting students from Wake Forest were involved in fights with members of SAE. A WFU student suffered serious damage to his eye and still has occasional blurry vision in that eye. Dean Terry has had communication with the student and his father and said that it will be two to three weeks before they know if there is permanent damage to the eye.

See "SAE" on page 6

Call STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES SPRING BREAK '92 Jamaica & Cancun, fr. $409 Panama City Beach, fr. $119

Earn Cash & Free Travel By Becoming a Campus Representative.

FOOD MART
- Low Priced Groceries
- Great Selection Of Fresh Produce
- Special Cuts of Meats
- In-House Restaurant
- Deli-Bakery
Milwaukee's Best Kegs $49

QUIK STOPS
- Discount Gas
- Discount
- 3 Locations to Serve You
Bud Suitcases $12.69
Miller Lite or Coors Light $11.79
*Lowest Price in N. Mecklenburg