THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
KEVIN MILLER - News Editor
SUSAN SHEFFIELD - Associate News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

JIM TAYLOR - Production Manager
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

Letters

The Winter Blahs

“Gloom, despair and agony on me; deep down depression...” The semesters that never end have struck again at Davidson as
students fight through ten more days of classes before a well-deserved spring break. In these past several weeks Davidson has,
on several weekends, turned into a suitcase school as students attempt to get away from the constant pressure for just
a small length of time. This is not to say that everyone just picks up and leaves on the weekends,
but these long stress-filled winter weeks have made this an increasingly viable option.

Campus tension has been stressed and beaten into the ground and many have adopted this pessimistic attitude because they feel
like it is the prevalent Zeitgeist at the college and one to which they should pay attention. Davidson has some
of the longest semesters in the country as illustrated by the long length of time between Christmas and spring break.
The next two weeks will highlight this fact as students prepare for hell weeks of papers, tests, and midterms crammed
in before the break. It seems as if many students are run-down and in a rut just trying to reach
the sixth day of March. Is this any way for Davidson students to live through a winter which has been
rainy and dismal enough on its own?

The Davidsonian believes that the administration needs to take a look at this problem a lot more seriously than they
have in the past. The solution is obviously not to cut down on exam periods at the end of the
semester, but maybe to cut out one or two class days during the semester. Despite the fact that we are
a private school, maybe a one-day holiday on Martin Luther King Day or President’s Day would provide the needed lift
and give people a long weekend to get away from the stress and pressure of Davidson. It would also give
students something to look forward to during the winter doldrums. Instead, Davidson students trudge off to class on these national
holidays while not being able to go to the Post Office or the bank because they are closed, like normal
institutions, for these national celebrations that we basically choose to ignore.

To combat despair and depression, the administration must do something to make the time between January 8 and March 6
a little bit easier to handle for the students. The college administration can help out the students and faculty by
adopting just one of these holidays for the Davidson community. While this probably will never happen, or at the least
won’t happen for several more years because of the typical unnecessary politics involved, the administration must realize that this stressful
depression is not a one-year phenomenon, but something that will occur each winter until some action is taken to make
the ‘winter bitch’ more tolerable. Maybe if this is finally resolved we can then turn our attention to the problem
of why this Presbyterian institution allows absolutely no time off for Easter.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Plank Discusses Honor System

To the editors:

I was privileged to view the Honor Council in its conducting of the open trial on February 14. The public
setting, justly rare, provides in its occasion an opportunity not only to see but, in a sense, participate more immediately
in the Honor process and to feel a common responsibility for it. There are no mere spectators in events such
as these. Throughout a long night, the Honor Council worked admirably to ensure fairness, discernment, and sensitivity. I can only
be impressed with the care and respect that characterized its actions. Seeing the Honor Coun-Here is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

cil at work helped counter two perceptions that I struggle with in the grind of the day to day: first,
the seeming reluctance of students to become seriously engaged in matters beyond the momentary; and second, the college’s habitual lean
toward paternalism. Clearly, the Honor Council shows that students can, at least in this context, recognize when serious matters are
at stake and act with exemplary judiciousness and mature perspective. The leadership of the Council in setting this tone—that something
is at stake in the ins and outs of our daily life and work—is a need that cannot be overemphasized.
That “something at stake” is the underlying conviction of an honor system, but also the basic dynamic of liberal learning.
It is of fundamental importance to the community and its sense of vocation. If singularly dramatized in a trial, it
yet remains a conviction that should claim us in the breadth and detail of our common life, from the classroom
to the dorm room. Moreover, that the Council does its job well reminds the institution that student responsibility is not
something to be co-opted, but respected and summoned. If the institution veers towards paternalism, the very existence of the Council
resists its incursion and may help us avoid the peril of too great a “rage of order.” As was so
evident at the trial, it is the exercise (and not simply the presumption) of student responsibility that makes paternalism untenable
and unnecessary. We should be grateful to this Honor Council and its leadership under the direction of John Howell. When
they act as they did in this instance, they remind each of us that something is at stake, in our
words and deeds, always.

Karl Plank
Associate Professor of Religion

Lake Responds From France

To the editor,

Reading the Davidsonian while here in France is an interesting experience. Knowing these headline events are past history for you
over there in North Carolina puts me in an uncomfortable time warp. For example, the student government elections have already
taken place and I am just now reading the campaign speeches, developing interest about current issues, and deciding to which
candidates I would cast my vote. Not having a say in these matters stretches my distance even further.

For a few minutes I am back on campus surrounded by familiar faces and conversation abound. I can imagine myself
taking that much traversed pathway between the library and my room down the hill, contemplating the day’s events, perhaps hammering
a calculus formula into my head and wondering whether I should go dance off some steam at KA, stop by
Rusk to check the leftovers, or drop by a friend’s room to have a late night chat. Then quickly I
am brought back to my other world here across the Atlantic, sitting on my bed in my little apartment, reading
the Davidsonian, reflecting upon what I have seen and learned during a day in France. I wonder what you are
doing now on this same big ball that is spinning in the sky. The ticking of the clock in E.H.
Little Library, the blaring of Lynyrd Skynyrd, and the soothing night breezes at Davidson seem oh so very far away.

Although I have sidetracked to some sentimental thoughts, the spark for my writing of this article was one of anger—or
more so, frustration. Its source was this comment in the Davidsonian: “The Davidsonian has asked several students who spent last
semester somewhere more interesting than overrun and tourist-riddled Europe to share their experiences with you, our beloved readers.” Sure, I
admit that “studying abroad in France” sounds a little more flowery and pampered than “studying wildlife game management in Kenya,”
and that Paris has a few too many tourists from time to time (that is because it is a city
with endless opportunities for enriching and expanding one’s cultured knowledge). However, a comment like the one made by the editor
deserves reprimand because it exhibits an absence of knowledge and an unappreciation for all the many diversities and fascinations this
world has to offer, no matter where you may be. Corresponding with both friends who wrote articles about their time
spent in Africa and India was very valuable to me during the first semester. This is because we communicated a
true interest in each other’s experiences and an appreciation for all that we were seeing and learning in our new
worlds. Through these letters our “separateness” was turned into “togetherness.” Receiving letters from friends at Davidson also shortened distances. Whether
it be a safari scene, a paradise of Indian flowers, or the autumn colors of a

See "Lake" on page 6
