THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992 15

Men's Basketball Loses Four Players, Paul Denmond's Career Ended by Knee Injury
By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson basketball team’s roster was depleted severely over the holidays when it lost four players for a variety of reasons. Franco Ferroni’s brief stay at Davidson ended in December when the NCAA ruled him ineligible because of his previous play for a club team in his native Italy. Ferroni took a full load of classes at Davidson during the fall semester but was not allowed to practice with the team. He returned to Italy after the NCAA handed down its decision.

A knee injury suffered in practice shortly before Christmas ended senior guard Paul Denmond’s career. Denmond had played in five games this season, averaging 4.6 points, before the injury. He ends his career with 845 points. Denmond’s best season came during his sophomore campaign, when he averaged 13.4 points per game. His 101 career three-pointers rank him second on Davidson’s all-time list.

Sophomore forward Scott Alford left the team over Christmas and returned to his Jacksonville, Fl. home. He had played in three games for the ‘Cats, averaging 12 minutes of playing time and 4.7 points per game. Alford’s freshman season was cut short by a dislocated kneecap after just nine games. He scored 22 points in his first collegiate game, against Central Connecticut, and averaged 6 points per game before the injury.

Sophomore Pat Holloway, the incumbent starter at point guard, left the team after the loss at Coastal Carolina. He had averaged 8.4 points and 3.3 assists per game before his departure. During his freshman season, Holloway scored 9.0 points a game, including a career-high 21 against Radford.

Senior guard Matt Matheny and freshman forward Tim Caldwell joined the team in January to provide added depth. Caldwell played at Monroe High School in Monroe, N.C., while Matheny played at North Iredell High School in Statesville, N.C. Matheny also played four seasons of football at Davidson as a quarterback and wide-out.

Wildcat Wrestlers Continue to Improve
By Robert Grubb

The wrestling team grabbed its first victory of the season with a 29-18 victory in a dual match on January 11 against Washington and Lee. Unfortunately, the Wildcats also suffered a 39-11 loss to Anderson College in the same match. Despite the team’s 1-3 record, Coach Tom Oddo is pleased with the performance of the team thus far.

“Over 80 percent of our wrestlers are freshmen and sophomores which means that we are looking to the future,” said Oddo. “There are no standouts on this team,” said Oddo. “Most of the guys are wrestling around .500, but they are learning by experience.”

Injuries have plagued the Wildcats this season. The team has suffered two broken noses, a shoulder injury, and a sprained ankle. These injuries have kept Davidson from wrestling with its strongest lineup.

Injuries have not stopped senior Craig Wall. Wall continues to wrestle well, despite a serious lower back problem which makes it painful for him to wrestle. While there is no star, sophomore Sam Knowles managed to capture last week’s Athlete of the Week honors with two victories in matches against Washington and Lee and Anderson. Knowles, wrestling in the 158 lb. class, defeated his W and L opponent 10-1.and scored an 8-4 victory over what Oddo called a strong Anderson wrestler. At the 126 lb. class, sophomore Robbie Fierro also wrestled to a 2-2 tie in his match against Anderson. “Robbie wrestled well against a really tough kid from Anderson,” said Oddo. Another sophomore, heavyweight Jimmy Stewart, is also enjoying a successful year after moving up from the 190 lb. class to the Heavyweight Class. “The move to heavyweight means that Jimmy doesn’t have to drop 20 or 30 pounds to wrestle,” said Oddo. “The move up has really helped him.”

Davidson’s scheduled match against Pensacola on Saturday was cancelled by Pensacola but it may be rescheduled, according to Oddo. The Wildcats return to action on Jan. 24 at the Washington and Lee Tournament. Davidson finished second in last year’s tournament and is considered one of the favorites this year, along with Longwood and Gardner-Webb. Oddo is hoping that the W and L Tournament and five consecutive weekends on the road will prepare the team for the Southern Conference Tournament at the end of the season.

The Davidsonian would like to apologize to Coach Oddo and the wrestling team for a mistake in an article in the Dec. 9 issue. What was reported as a staph infection among members of the team was rather a communicable skin infection.

Spear Sets 500m Record as Men's Track Opens Indoor Season
By Peter Hurtado

The men’s track and field team opened its 1992 indoor season in fine fashion, recording a new school record and several other strong performances this past weekend at the Santee-Marriott Invitational at Virginia Tech. Sophomore co-captain Duncan Spears continued his mastery of the 500 meter race, sprinting to a 68.5 and breaking his own school-record performance of 69.3 set in his first race as a freshman. Spears will continue to chase records indoors and outdoors in the 400m and 400m hurdles.

Ted Richardson and Chris Otrok began their senior campaigns with strong performances in the distance events. Otrok became one of Davidson’s best 5000m athletes ever with a time of 16:18, while co-captain Richardson flew his way to a 9:12 in the 3000m. Both men hope to challenge records in the 3000m and 5000m this season, and seem poised to do so.

In a promising first-ever indoor race, freshman standout Erik McMichael ran a fine mile of 4:40.2. McMichael looks to continue his success this season in the 800m and 1500m. Lee Sutton, another outstanding freshman athlete, put the shot 43' 9 3/4" to become Davidson’s best ever in that event. Surely Sutton will challenge records in both the shot and discus this spring.

In other performances, Senior John Alsobrook (2:10) and freshman Joe Beach (2:11) ran well in the 800m, while junior Pete Hurtado (4:50) followed McMichael in the mile. Spears (24.2) and sophomore DJ Ruggles (26.2) sprinted their way to fast 200m times. The team was pleased with their first performances of the year. There will be marked improvement, especially in the shot put and discus events with the arrival of Sutton and the return of several veterans. Coaches Gary Andrew and Beth Manson have set high goals for this year's squad. The men will send athletes to the US Air Invitational and to the Lynchburg Invitational next weekend.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Prepare Your Meager Selves! Cometh Sometime this spring.