THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992

———CAMPUS BRIEFS———

Courtesy of College Relations
Typed in by the News Staff

Two Million-Dollar Gifts Establish Scholarships and a Professorship

Two Davidson alumni have recently given the college separate million-dollar gifts—one for a scholarship program and one for a professorship.

Talented Davidson students from middle-income families will benefit from the million-dollar scholarship endowment being created by an anonymous alumnus and
his wife. The scholarships will attract promising science and mathematics students from middle-income families in North Carolina and the Appalachian
region of the South. Mathematics and science are special interests of the donors, who were motivated to arrange the gift
by their long-time interest in young people and their strong ties to the college through three generations of their family
attending Davidson.

The other million-dollar gift came from Joseph R. Morton ’20 of Greensboro. Morton’s gift will establish the Joseph R. Morton
Professorship in chemistry, physics, or mathematics. These are areas which he enjoyed most at Davidson and which provided skills instrumental
to his success in the chemical industry. The professorship represents the major philanthropic gift of Morton’s lifetime. Working with estate
planning advisors and members of the college’s planned giving staff, the donors all made use of property held for many
years. Julius Melton, who directs Davidson’s planned giving program, explained, “Through these types of arrangements the donors were able to
augment their incomes substantially while also arranging significant endowments for a professorship and a scholarship.”

President John Kuykendall said, “We are tremendously grateful for these exciting commitments. This new scholarship will address the needs of
a group that is often squeezed out of other scholarship programs. It will have a strong impact on keeping Davidson
affordable for every qualified student. With the Morton Professorship, our efforts to ensure quality teaching are dramatically strengthened. The hallmark
of Davidson remains that unique relationship between the faculty and our students.”

The new scholarships will carry a stipend of $5,000 above demonstrated financial need. A committee, including two alumni who are
scientists, will assist the admission committee with its final selection of recipients. The million-dollar scholarship and professorship gifts lift the
total commitments received during The Campaign for Davidson to $106 million.

New NEH Grant for Humanities Program Carries a Challenge

A $275,000 grant Davidson recently received from the National Endowment for the Humanities Challenge Grant Program will reward Davidson’s excellent
teachers as well as improve its Humanities Program. The purpose of the grant is “to promote and reward excellence in
teaching the Humanities to undergraduate students, and to identify outstanding teachers so that they may be models and mentors to
others.”

Davidson must match the amount of the grant 3-to-1 by raising $825,000 in new, non-federal contributions to the school by
July 31, 1996. The money will establish an endowment for distinguished teaching professorships based solely on classroom teaching excellence.

Peter Krentz, chair of Davidson’s Humanities Program, wrote the main proposal for the grant. He said that an “internal, rotating
chair” will be established, awarded to a different Davidson professor every two years. This professor will devote a majority of
his or her time to Davidson’s Humanities Program for a two-year span, and will receive a salary supplement to equal
the salaries of other endowed chairs at Davidson. The endowment will also enable the professor’s department to hire a two-year
replacement for the position lost to the Humanities.

In the first year in the endowed chair, honorees will team-teach all four courses in the two-year Humanities sequence to
get a feel for what the program encompasses. In the second year, honorees will choose a theme to develop and
present to Humanities students in a series of lectures, and to present to peers in a workshop the following summer.
The professor will also teach two Humanities courses. Finally, in the year following their distinguished professorship, honorees will teach a
seminar about their theme in the Humanities program for junior and senior students.

Nominations for endowed professorships will be initiated from students, faculty, and alumni. The Dean of the Faculty and the chair
of the humanities program will select Distinguished Teaching Professors, based in part on discussions of the themes the candidates propose
for development. Krentz believes that in addition to rewarding outstanding classroom teachers, the grant will improve Davidson’s Humanities Program. He
said that having a professor working with the Humanities Program for two years, observing classes and developing themes, will make
the entire program morecoherent and will re-invigorate the regular Humanities staff. Davidson’s Humanities Program has been a cornerstone of its
liberal arts education since 1962, and currently involves 20 professors from 10 different departments. Competition among schools to receive this
N.E.H. grant was lively. Davidson’s $275,000 grant came in light of a maximum award of $300,000. According to Nancy Maydole,
director of grants and contracts, most other winning schools got grants in the $150,000 dollar range. Davidson professors assisting Krentz
in writing the proposal were Trent Foley, Libby Mills, Brian Shaw, Vivien Dietz, and Mary Thornberry, as well as staff
member Maydole. Steve Whisnant, director of major gifts, and Kevin McCarthy, director of corporate and foundation relations, developed the fundraising
plan for the proposal.

DCPC Spruces Up with Interior Makeover

Three months of work have given Davidson College Presbyterian Church a fresh new look to begin its life as a
self-sustaining entity. The church signed a 25-year lease with the college in July under which the church is responsible for
building maintenance and improvements. The lease included a provision that the college cover expenses to bring the building “up to
speed,” which includes most of the current painting and floor finishing work.

Rev. Charlie Raynal, DCPC’s pastor, said the new three-tone color scheme in Lingle Chapel and the main sanctuary accentuated the
intricate millwork in those spaces. The pews were removed so the parquet floors in both sanctuaries could be refinished, and
the pews in Lingle Chapel are being reinstalled farther apart, with several pews moving upstairs to the balcony. The dossal
cloth against the south wall of the main sanctuary has been replaced, and the cross that stood on the wall
in front of it is being moved to Lingle Chapel. A new, larger cross that has been donated by a
member of the congregation will be placed in the main sanctuary. A lot of elbow grease from members of the
congregation has brought out the shine in the building’s brass work. The organ was tuned and repaired, and the sound
system was redone so that Raynal will now communicate with his congregations via a wireless microphone.

Raynal said it has been a challenge to continue worship services during the work. DCPC’s congregation sat in pews on
one side of the sanctuary while those on the other side were removed, and Catholics coming to their weekly worship
service in Lingle Chapel have been sitting in folding chairs on the bare floor there. The recent work has been
restricted to the two sanctuaries. The administrative and classroom areas of the building will be refurbished in connection with the
church’s expansion, which is scheduled to begin early next year. Raynal said the congregation now hopes not only to enlarge
the basement-level fellowship hall but to extend the south side of the building by 20 feet or so on all
three floors, adding an additional 4,000 square feet to the building. “I hope we can afford to do it,” he
said. “That would allow us to accommodate a growing congregation for another generation.”

NOTICE: The Town of Davidson has requested that all joggers use alternate routes during the construction period and to wear
reflective gear at all times to avoid accidents.
