Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

Bring On Coastal ‘Cats Top UNCC on Penalty Kicks

By Bruce Balestier

When Davidson (#15 Soccer America, #19 ISAA) and UNCC (#13, #7) struggled to a 2-2 tie after 150 minutes of
soccer Sunday afternoon in Charlotte, their first-round NCAA Tournament game came to an incongruously arbitrary end; a set of five
penalty kicks decided which team would advance. Davidson (17-5-3) took a 3-2 win and earned a shot at Coastal Carolina
in the second round next weekend, when John Sampers’ deciding shot to the lower left corner hit the inside of
the post and caromed into the net.

Davidson goalkeeper Alex Deegan outshined all others during the game and made his two most noticeable saves on UNCC’s first
two penalty kicks. He guessed correctly to deny shots by Dan Westwater and Chan Roush, and the ‘Cats’ Craig Omli
and Ben Hayes converted from the dot to give Davidson the two-shot cushion. 49er goalie Kevin Shockley saved Rob Ukrop’s
shot before Matt Spear and Sampers found the net to bring the ‘Cats victory.

Sampers admitted that the final kick brought with it much more pressure than he had ever before.

See "Soccer" on page 11

Dean Terry to Ring in 1993 with the President-elect

Annual "Renaissance Weekend" Held in South Carolina

By Alice Felmlee

Just as he has for the past eight years, Bill Clinton, accompanied by wife Hillary and daughter Chelsea, will spend
the New Year’s holiday on Hilton Head Island participating in Renaissance Weekend—along with Davidson’s own Dean of Students, Will Terry.

Described as an “intellectual feast,” Renaissance Weekend brings together personalities from throughout the Carolinas and across the nation in an
attempt to stimulate debate “on any kind of topic you can imagine.” Panel discussions running from eight in the morning
until nearly midnight focus on everything from economics to children, and carry such flashy titles as “Hot Buttons — What
Makes You Tick?” and “Sailing into Uncharted Waters."

Terry, a three-year participant in the program, fondly remembers a session entitled “My Most-Embarrassing Moment.” “Bill talked candidly of his
greatest embarrassment: his speech at the 1988 Democratic National Convention.” Yes, even President-elects are people too.

Knowing Clinton on a one-to-one level rather than solely through the eye of a television camera gave Terry insights throughout
the election year. “Many claim he was a packaged candidate but I’ve heard many of his same speeches at Renaissance
Weekend.” Indeed, the ideas and feelings instilled in Clinton during his childhood struggles have stayed with him from Arkansas, through
the New Hampshire primary, and into the White House. His concern for minorities and the poor are “genuine” according to
Terry.

The media has painted Hillary Clinton as a goal-oriented and domineering spouse. Terry knows her differently. “She is a very
personable individual—always positive but not shrill; always forceful but not pushy.” Jokingly mentioning her good sense of humor, Terry commented,
“neither Bill nor his wife take themselves too seri-

See "Terry" on page 4

Qualls Espouses Understanding

Performer Embraces Davidson with "The Last Word"

By Katrice Shuler

Schyleen Qualls embraced Davidson College much as she does all cultures. On Thursday evening, November 12, Qualls read poetry of
African-Americans including her own in the 900 Room. The Union and Dean of Students office sponsored her performance, “The Last
Word.”

As an actress, co-founder of the Cleo Parker Robinson Dance Ensemble, and U.S. delegate for international understanding, Qualls expressed the
need to accept and treasure our own culture and then to learn about and embrace other heritages. Such an ideology
explains the fact that her “world citizenship,” more thanany other aspect of her personality, defines her. Qualls read uplifting poems
by Nikki Giovanni, Maya Angelou, June Jordan, Langston Hughes, and Julia Fields. She engaged the audience with Jackie Early’s call
and response poem “When You’re Walking.” Her readings also included an African-American folk tale and her own poetry and thoughts.
Throughout the performance, Qualls commented on her own experiences and advocated understanding of all ethnicities. Especially moving was her poem
“So Here We Are” based on her experience in Nigeria, the largest reunion of African people. Instead of cheering the
American delegation during the festival’s

See "Qualls" on page 4

Project Life Holds Annual Drive
Group Seeks Community Members for National Registry
By David Lindsay

This Wednesday, from 9:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m., you will be given the unique opportunity to help save a life.
Just think about it... Between your English composition class and grabbing a grilled cheese and chips at the Union, you
could hang a sharp right into the Morrison Room and emerge having registered yourself as a hero. What in the
heck am I talking about? I’m referring to Davidson’s third annual Project Life Bone Marrow Drive. Don’t let the name
fool or frighten you. This drive does not involve the draining of bones or the removal of any vital organs,
it is only the sampling of two tablespoons of blood. The highly exact testing of this sample can potentially link
you with a sick individual who needs a bone marrow transplant simply to survive.

See "Life" on page 4

NUMBER 10

Photo by Casey Rogers
Graham Allison, the Douglas Dillon Professor of Government and SDI Director, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, addresses
America's Place in the New International Order Tuesday evening.

See articles on page 6

Allison Warns of Soviet Threat
Speech Closes Post-Cold War World Conference
By Meg Davis

Graham Allison, a Charlotte native, concluded the series, “A Conference on the Post-Cold War World,” with his talk entitled, “Russia
and the Soviet Union.” Allison echoed the uncertainty that pervaded the conference about the emerging shifts in power as the
Soviet Union is no longer a major world power. While it may no longer be an enemy of Cold War
caliber, Graham feels the Soviet Union is “the single largest source of threats to the vital interests of the United
States.” Allison attended Davidson for two years before finishing his studies at Harvard University where he is currently the Douglas
Dillon Professor of History and SDI Director in the John F. Kennedy School of Government. Among his many government positions
as an expert on the former Soviet Union, is his service as Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense. Allison
is currently working on a project which monitors the ongoing Russian Revolution and he travels to the former Soviet Union
once a month. Allison addressed the very timely questions: What will a new presidential administration inherit in problems and challenges
and what should now be done to protect the vital interests of the United States while maintaining world peace? The
idea of a new world order where the United States prevails is not new, according to Allison who quoted a
statement by then-President Richard Nixon who displayed the same kind of optimism as President Bush. Allison is more inclined to
believe “history is much more likely to be

See "Allison" on page 5

INSIDE
NEWS: Davidson Receives National Accreditation. See page 3.
OPINIONS: Davidson Student Corresponds from Belfast. See page 9. Frampton's Scary Stories. See page 8.
SPORTS: Football Closes Season with Victory! See page 16. Field Hockey Wins Deep South Title. See page 16.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
