THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

Spike Continued from page 1

Director Norman Jewison’s hands with the claim that a white man cannot direct a movie about an African-American. Lee had
to contend with Warner Brothers about the budget (which went $5 million over), the hiring of minorities, and the use
of members of the Nation of Islam for security and in-between shots. The United Front to Preserve the Legacy of
Malcolm X, headed by poet Amir Baraka (also known as LeRoi Jones), opposed Lee’s efforts to bring the leader’s life
to the screen. Baraka stated that Lee would make Malcolm X a cartoon hero. Lee, of course, would disagree with
the critics on his three-hour and thirty-minute masterpiece. Lee felt so strongly about exposing his representation of Malcolm X’s life
to the public because he believes Malcolm X’s maxim: “By any means necessary.”

Davidson College itself seems to be following that maxim in its approach to combat the racial tension that erupted last
spring on campus. Stacy Smith, Program Advisor of the Union, says that “a fire has been sparked on this campus,
and it is of the utmost importance to allow it to breathe rather than smother it.” In light of the
racial tensions, she and the Public Lectures Committee wanted to focus not only on knowledgeable speakers but also on big
names that would draw the crowds that need to hear a message of minority strength. Joan Miller, Assistant Director of
Love of Learning, states that Spike Lee “can open the eyes of some individuals. He will at least get some
people to think about the issues we’re facing here on the campus.” Brenda Tapia, Director of Love of Learning, comments
on Lee’s arrival in a similar vein: “Spike Lee will assist in the effort to recruit and retain African-American students,
faculty, and staff by increasing campus awareness of Black history and culture.”

Tickets to attend "A Rap Session with Spike Lee" will go on sale for Davidson students, faculty, and staff on
Wednesday, October 7 at 2:00 for $3.00 each with a limit of one ticket per ID. The ticket office will
be open from 2:00 to 6:00 from Wednesday to Friday. The general public can purchase tickets from Monday, October 12
to Friday, October 16 from 2:00 to 5:00 for $8.00 a ticket. Cash, checks, Mastercard, or Visa are acceptable.

Campus Briefs

On October 21, the Davidson College Police Department will hold a closed bid bicycle sale. The bicycles will be displayed
and available for bid in the hallway of the campus police department in Johnston Gym between the hours of 9:00
- 11:30 a.m. and 12:30 - 4:00 p.m.

If you left a bicycle on campus over the summer and cannot find it, it may be at the campus
police department. There were eleven bicycles picked up by the physical plant in order to repair and paint all bicycle
racks on campus. If you think you may own one of these bicycles, you may come by the campus police
department Monday - Friday between 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. and pick up your bicycle.

Phelps Continued from page 1

for Phelps’ visit. On Wednesday, the day before his official speaking engagement, Phelps spoke to Benedict’s non-fiction writing class about
being a journalist. He told the class, “We neverthought it [the Hill/Thomas story] would get as far as it did.”
He acknowledged that he was “willing to go to jail” to protect his sources.

Meeks Continued from page 1

and genuine humor and heart make her a favorite to many at Davidson College. The magnetism of her resourcefulness and
compassion created her following of students, professors, and others. She still receives phone calls from former JYAers (who address her
as “Momma Meeks”), former work-study students, and numerous community members. As one student puts it, “I just love to sit
and talk with her. I’ll come by the library specifically to see her.”

Dedicated to her work and to those for whom she worked, Miz Meeks contributed many things to Davidson. Known for
her culinary skills, amazing acceptance of difference and individuality, benign sarcasm, and “My life is in TURMOIL” posters, Miz Meeks
leaves her official post at Davidson College; and she will be greatly missed by all. Asked what she plans to
pursue next, Miz Meeks exclaimed, “Selling pies on the side of the road!” Perhaps there’s not much credence in her
statement, but one thing is certain: Miz Meeks continues to play an important role in the life of this community.
According to one student, “I’m going to call or visit her every week if I have to - I don’t
want to suffer too much from ‘Miz Meeks withdrawal’!”

Tuition Continued from page 1

The allotment jumped 17% from the 1991-92 apportionment, the single largest increase this year. Tuition increases average 10% for the
past four years. The administration tries to make even increases rather than erratic jumps between years. In years past, the
tuition increases would vary between zero and 17%. The purpose behind attaining an average, Sutton explains, is to prevent surprise
changes; people can plan for a predicted increase. This does not mean tuition will inexplicably rise each year. Like budgetary
considerations, the college closely compares its tuition with other superior institutions and does not deem revenue as a reason for
increasing it.

Sutton credits Davidson’s tradition of “squeezing every nickel” for avoiding substantial budget cuts. The school efficiently manages its costs and
refuses to allow a deficit. Tradition and location assist in the school’s ability to successfully run, he maintains. Summarizing Davidson’s
budgetary theory, Sutton comments, “We want to be a bargain, but don’t want to be a steal.”

Guatemalan Belts: $5.00
Guatemalan Handbags & Accessories
T-Shirts & More
STUDENT Extra 20% off with this Ad and 2 Student I.D.s thru October 17.

Pizza Engineers 3892-9046
Two 12" Pizzas $8.99
Lakeshore MarketPlace (next to The Irish Cue)
Highway 73, Cornelius / 892-3990 / M-SAT 10-6
w/ 3 Toppings
Two 16" Pizzas w/ 3 Toppings $12.99
Two 18" Pizzas w/ 3 Toppings $15.99
HOMECOMING DEAL!!!

HELP WANTED
Reliable Person to look after infant at Lake Norman home. Part-time, flexible position. Experience & Transportation Required. Call Liz or
Adam. 892-7743

FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM
MOVIES AT THE LAKE
ALL STEREO SOUND
MR. SATURDAY NIGHT 3:05, 5:05, 7:10, 9:30
Singles 3:10, 5:10, 7:10, 9:10 (PG-13)
EMILIO ESTEVEZ THE MIGHTY DUCKS 3:25, 5:25, 7:25, 9:25
Hero 3:25, 7:05, 9:25
HUSBANDS AND WIVES 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25
CAPTAIN RON 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25
Mr. Baseball (PG-13) 3:25, 7:05, 9:25

Free Delivery
