THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

English Dept. Proposes Changes
By Mandy Curtis

Changes in the English Department have recently been proposed. A request for new English major requirements was approved by the
Educational Policy Committee on November 16. The revisions will be required for English majors in the class of '96.

Randy Nelson, Acting Chair for the English Department, described the proposal as a "conclusion to a year-long self-study." Recommended by
Dean Robert Williams, the English Department took on the task a year ago in reviewing the English curriculum with a
specific concentration on the major requirements. According to Nelson, faculty members and outside evaluators from other colleges did a "complete
and thorough audit."

The English Department requested two new courses: English 220 and English 345. If approved, English 220, "The Study of Literature,"
will be a course designed to develop literary skills of interpretation and research, emphasizing close reading and written analysis of
poetry, fiction, and drama. This will be a requirement for English majors in this year's freshman class. English 345, "Studies
in Medieval Literature," will be another offering specializing in literature such as Medieval Drama, Arthurian Literature, or Medieval Women Mystics.
This course will be an elective within the major.

Currently, the English major is broken down into three plans of concentration. Students have to make a choice between British
and American Literature, the Self-Designed Major, or the Writing Emphasis. Within each of the areas, majors are to take the
given requirements of the specific concentration.

The biggest change in the English major will be the elimination of these three areas. Revised, it will be "a
fundamentally self-designed program of study," explained Nelson. Students will be able to have their concentration in literature or in writing
within the self-designed major. Requirements, if approved, will consist of English 220, 240, 260, and 280, preferably completed by the
end of junior year, and one 300-level course in modern literature from courses 372-394. Senior Colloquium, English 495, and a
seminar numbered English 400-494 will be required. Three electives, two at the 300-level or higher and one at the 200-level
or higher, will also be part of the major.

The revised major will "increase flexibility for the students, more than anything else," stated Nelson. He continued to explain that
it will make the "bookkeeping a lot cleaner... We're very excited about it."

Union
Continued from page 1

felt that at that time, and still feels, that Johnston would be a "close to ideal location" for the Union.
"With the right kind of dreaming and money Johnston could become an exciting place," Brown says.

Plans were furthered in 1988, when students, faculty, and staff wrote a 135-page book giving a very thorough description of
what would be needed and wanted in a new Union. Although the book was written with the knowledge that Johnston
would be an available site for the Union, Brown says that the ideas contained in the book could be used
in any location of a new Union.

Since this detailed plan was written four years ago, events have been out of Brown's control. He has been waiting
for word from Davidson's Facilities Planning Committee about whether or not a new Union will take top priority on their
list of major projects. Whenever that happens, Brown and others will eagerly get to work re-evaluating the 1988 plan, and
"will invite everybody to participate" in developing concrete plans for a new Union.

But while Brown must wait, students are pressing the issue, hoping to generate some results. Anthony Foxx, student body president,
feels very strongly about the need for a new Union. He said that this year's new alcohol policy shows the
college's need for more diverse social options, which can be better facilitated in a new Union. He also thinks that
Davidson's isolated location gives the school an increased responsibility to provide more social options for its students.

Foxx said there is "a general dissatisfaction with the current Union facilities" from students, as well as others. At last
week's SGA meeting, a letter was drafted that will be sent to Brown, as well as to President Kuykendall, Dean
Terry, and Dr. John Kelton, the Chair of the Facilities Planning Committee. It states, "the reality is that the present
Union facility is inadequate for the further steps of providing enticing options beyond Patterson Court and reaching the level of
inclusiveness that Davidson College badly needs. In response, we, the student senators, respectfully request that a new college union be
the next capital project."

Kelton, whose Facilities Planning Committee is responsible for determining the school's building priorities, says that "the Union is a top
priority" for the committee, and that "Johnston Gym is one of several sites being considered" for the Union. He said
that...

ATTENTION: Those individuals interested in Editorial Board positions on the 1993 Davidsonian Staff should contact Walieg Price at -2148 or
-6642 as soon as possible! Positions available include: editor-in-chief, associate editors, section editors, and others.It is still not clear whether
the plans for a new Union will involve renovating an existing structure or the construction of an entirely new one
somewhere else on campus, and that he could not name where that location would be. Neither could Kelton say whether
a new Union was his committee’s top priority, but he did say that would be decided “in the next month
or two.” His committee will be meeting with an outside consultant who has been hired to evaluate a master plan
for the campus in early December. After the December meeting, Kelton said, a decision will be made “about timing and
setting” for a new Union.

Foxx, Brown, and many others feel that now is the time for a new Union to be built, and that
no excuses should be made for putting it off any longer. However, they, along with everyone else, must sit back
and wait to see whether or not the Union has top priority for the members of the Facilities Planning Committee.

Come see our selections in all-cotton Rugbys, turtlenecks, sportshirts by Cross Creek, London Fog. Also, quality & fashion apparel for
men & women.

Media effort not to give Americans a fully accurate representation of events and trends, individual reporters are often guilty. For
example, an important journalist named Bill Bradley was influenced by President Kennedy to suppress or edit stories in Newsweek during
the early 1960s. Another journalist whom Burnham mentioned helped shape one Justice Department opinion and then wrote about the ruling
without informing his readers that he had played a major role in the outcome of the event.

Burnham believes that the news media as a whole is conservative and not aggressive enough. It thus concentrates on stories
which recount daily events (such as hurricanes and fires) and ones which report the views and sayings of important leaders
in society. While the media went through two periods of inquisitiveness and skepticism in the 1900s and early 1910s as
well as the Sixties, the media has often been passive. Since the election of Ronald Reagan in 1980, according to
Burnham, the media has become neutral and passive. Burnham believes that the media needs to do more investigative reporting, such
as covering national trends and other long-term stories. According to Burnham, one way of doing so could be to examine
the idea that the I.R.S. is mismanaged: it tends to treat taxpayers in some areas of the country more harshly
than in others, even though the I.R.S. operates by uniform laws and should train its employees to treat all Americans
with the same degree of gentleness or harshness. Burnham has also found that New York City judges work less on
Mondays and Fridays than during the middle of the week, while prisoners are kept waiting. Environmental enforcement also differs from
region to region of the country, Burnham has found.

During the question and answer session following the 54-minute speech, some audience members expressed pessimism about the abilities of the
media to publish question-raising investigative stories in the future, in the face of declining news staff sizes and pressures to
not publish controversial stories which might tar advertisers’ reputations. Burnham, however, remains optimistic. He believes that the public needs and
wants to know what is really going on in America; if the public is kept in the dark, American democracy
may be threatened.

Honor Continued from page 2

Sanction is Suspension; in which case the vote must be unanimous. When a decision has been reached, the Chairman and
Secretary go to the defendant to inform him or her of the decision. A common point of concern involves the
role of precedent. A small amount of precedent is used only in that it is a part of experience, guiding
thought processes, and honing decision-making skills. Experience is a valuable tool for a panel member. Yet a panel is composed
of members with differing amounts of experience, so it is not imperative that a member be experienced for a given
trial (for there will be some experienced members there). As to the question of precedent, it can be said that
every case is very different. There should be some standards (how harsh is too harsh, how much evidence against a
defendant is too much, etc.) for making decisions on guilt or on sanction; but each case is weighed individually, not
as it relates to others. No two Council members will draw upon the same personal resources for precedent. It is
for all these reasons that precedent exists as only an insignificant personal guideline for the Council member making a decision.
Drawing the line between how much precedent is too much is not an easy task, but a Council member in
executive session takes the task very seriously and always gives the defendant the benefit of the doubt. I know that
many of you have questions; and I hope that you will not hesitate to ask them of a Council member,
Solicitor, or Defense Adviser.

Turtlenecks, sweaters, and knit woolrich, and cotton Duckhead khakis. John Mack & Son 128 North Main St. 9 AM till
6 PM Mon - Downtown Mooresville Fri; till 5 PM Sat. Ph. 664-4711
