4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

Rusk

Continued from page 1

Secretary of Defense. Allison will deliver the closing address on Tuesday, November 10.

Other speakers include Anne Krueger - Duke University Arts and Sciences Professor of Economics; Leon Bendesky - Executive Director of the Center for Economic Studies at the Universidad de las Americas in Mexico City; Loch Johnson - Regents Professor of Political Science at the University of Georgia; Jerel Rosati - Associate Professor in the Department of Government and International Studies and Graduate Director of International Studies at the University of South Carolina; and Ole Holsti - George V. Allen Professor of Political Science at Duke University.

Mark Sandy, a 1987 Davidson graduate who has just completed a year as a Luce Scholar in Tokyo analyzing U.S.-Japanese trade conflicts and studying plans for the creation of a Multilateral Trade Organization, will also speak during the conference.

Former U.S. Ambassador and Director of the Dean Rusk Program, Jack Perry, said of this conference, “It’s sort of the flagship of the Dean Rusk Program, the way we attract attention in Charlotte and nationally.”

Perry said, “The subject is picked by the students and the faculty.” A student advisory committee of the Dean Rusk Program discusses ideas and then comes up with a recommendation. A faculty advisory committee also solicits ideas from the entire faculty and comes up with their own ideas for the conference’s subject.

This faculty advisory committee then looks over the suggestions from the faculty and students and comes up with the specific subject for the conference. Perry said, “We try to pick a subject that a lot of students are interested in.”

The conference is open to the public and all sessions are separate. All events, except for Campbell’s sermon, will be held in the Chambers Gallery.

For reasons of health, the participation of former Secretary of State and 1931 Davidson graduate Dean Rusk is uncertain. If Rusk is able to attend, he will take part in the Monday, November 9 program.

Alpha

NEWS
Honor Code Notice

Here are two points of importance of which students should be aware:
1) Upon review by the Student Conduct Council, it is no longer a violation of the Honor Code to use a fake Davidson College I.D. off-campus. Any on-campus use of such an I.D., tampering with a Davidson College I.D., or the on-campus use of any fake I.D. is a violation of the Honor Code.

2) It should be pointed out to members of the Freshman class that, when a teacher states that you may not discuss a review or assignment, you may say nothing about it. This fact rules out responses such as, “I can’t talk about it, but it was fine,” or any statement or gesture that indicates your feelings about your performance on the test. Do not in any way hint at the difficulty level of the test, whether you studied enough, etc. Simply say, “I can’t talk about it.”

Continued from page 1

GAY AND LESBIAN SWITCHBOARD of Charlotte

Information, Referral and Peer Crisis Counseling
6:30 - 10:30 PM Nightly

(704) 535-6277

A Service of Metrolina Community Service Project
P.O. Box 11144, Charlotte, NC 28220

make a verbal presentation, which had to be approved by the Committee on Campus and Religious Life. Then they had to receive approval from the president of the college.

The fact that there are no Alpha Phi Alpha brothers on campus, nor alumni nor faculty who are members of the fraternity complicates matters a bit.

Rafael Candelario, ‘93, who has served as coordinator on campus, described how the Davidson chapter will begin.

At least seven students who meet the academic requirements of the fraternity must express interest and intent to become brothers. Although Alpha Phi Alpha is a traditionally Afro-American fraternity, it is by no means limited to any specific race.

National A Phi A members Smith Turner from UNCC, Bill Means from the Charlotte graduate chapter, and Thomas Turner from Johnson C. Smith will assist the Davidson chapter with its first pledging, or “in-take” activities.

According to assistant dean of students John Eaves, who will serve as interim advisor to A Phi A, the in-take process should take three days and consist of informational “crash course” sessions and activities to promote bonding and brotherhood.

After in-take, the new brothers will elect officers and establish a framework for the day-to-day functioning of the fraternity.

Alpha Phi Alpha will be headquartered in the current BSC house, where it will share the facility with the Black Student Coalition.

Candelario stated that A Phi A has the complete support of the administration and faculty. “They’re behind us 100%,” he said. Candelario feels that the only opposition could come from students.

How will A Phi A benefit the Davidson community?

According to Candelario, “even though the BSC has a certain positive function, Alpha Phi Alpha will help that much more to make the campus aware of African-American culture. It will also be a good connection with the black communities in Charlotte and across the tracks.”

Interim advisor Eaves said that Alpha Phi Alpha will help bring diversity to Davidson social life. There will also be a support network formed with other A Phi A chapters in the area and across the country. The fraternity will bring “an added dimension to the court” which will help “open the campus to people outside the community,” said Eaves.

David Wright, president of the Patterson Court Council, said, “Having a new source for social integration here on campus is a very positive thing.” As with anything new, there will be some rough spots at the beginning, believes Wright, but the overall effect will be positive.

Most importantly, Candelario said, “Davidson black male students have always been negatively looked upon by the black community at large. Alpha Phi Alpha will help change that.”

Pizza Engineers

3892-9046

Two 12" Pizzas w/ 3 Toppings

$8.99

Two 16" Pizzas w/ 3 Toppings

$12.99

Two 18" Pizzas w/ 3 Toppings

$15.99

THE DADDY DEAL!