THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINION
SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

Frampton Rules; The J.Crew Lifestyle, Or Not

Yellow leaves crush underneath my brown Nubuck Wing Tips. The wind blows, cool and crisp, through my short, sandy blonde
hair. My ribbed cotton v-neck keeps the cold out, while my ivory chinos blow lightly in the wind. In the
distance, my girlfriend, her long light brown hair hanging over her shoulders, smiles teasingly as she waits for me. My
life is comfortable. This is the J.Crew lifestyle, otherwise known as every college student’s dream.

My life revolves around my wardrobe, and why not? I never work, I’m obviously wealthy, young and affluent if you
prefer. Some of my friends have started to have children, but not me. Essentially my life consists of lazy fall
days walking the streets of Boston or lounging around my summer home along the New England coast. I may travel
to the mountains of Vermont during the winter months, but even then I wear my trusty J.Crew t-shirt and roll
neck sweater underneath my hunter orange four-in-one jacket. I may dabble in politics, but only over a light lunch, after
all, every one of my friends is voting for Clinton; I’ll do the same. Being a moderate means never losing
control. I may have smoked a little weed, but the really crazy moments for me involve wearing a pair of
gas station print broadcloth boxers around the summer home and cuddling with my girlfriend. Usually, a cup of hot chocolate
rounds the situation off perfectly. I just enjoy those peaceful times.

My girlfriend will sometimes get a little bit more out of control. She likes to throw on a homespun sweater
and pick apples out of the tree in the backyard, and just pile them into a large wooden basket. If
she happens to get into the city, the coffee shops had best beware. She’ll throw on a pair of Oatmeal
Heather leggings, a cotton mini-skirt, and a french cuff shirt, tied in a knot above her waist, and go shopping.
If a guy is lucky, she’ll flash him one of those let’s play smiles and then turn away quickly and
teasingly. She may even run away, giggling out loud, and bonding with the other women on the street who admire
her free spirit. It’s really quite a life. Won’t you join us? Our lifestyle catalogue comes out every week, and
the start-up fee is just enough to cover a couple pairs of chinos, a roll neck sweater, and a short,
natural haircut.

The purpose of this long-winded introduction is to make a point. By directly marketing college-age students, J.Crew makes what the
trustees and whoever else subscribes to their newfound moralism would call an outrageous assumption. They actually assume we can choose
our own lifestyle.

At some point in the last few years, I became an adult. I can’t remember exactly when it was. Some
point before freshman year I became responsible for my actions. I could no longer simply pass the blame on to
my parents or expect them to keep me out of trouble. In return, I was now able to do whatever
the hell I wanted. Of course, if I messed up, I paid the price. Now someone has decided that I
hadn’t become an adult, that I am not responsible enough to make my own decisions. Unfortunately, it wasn’t the administration.
(I know they’re really fun to rag on, but it just isn’t their fault.) Yes, their recent changes of the
alcohol policy did bring the subject to light, but they must obey the law. (Although, I don’t remember anyone deputizing
the whole lot of them.)

North Carolina law states that people under the age of twenty-one cannot drink. Why? Beats me. Only about half of
the high school graduates in the United States go on to college. Those who do not continue their formal education
do not have the luxury of avoiding the real world. They must pay taxes, make a living, and, in many
cases, support full families. Yet, they can’t drink alcohol?

So what can be done about it? Nothing, but I am bitching anyway. It is truly strange that a person
who is expected to behave like an adult is treated like a child. I guess I’ll have to keep my
personal decisions in the arena of clothing. (P.S.I know that this argument sounds like a cliché, and it probably is,
but there is some sense in it. Oh, by the way, did you know that the teachers used to come
down to the court to hang out with the students? Given that may have been about five years ago, but
that sounds really neat. Can that begin to happen again? It seems to me the students and teachers could only
get closer if they were allowed to socialize with each other. Bye.

Krenzer

Continued from page 7

So to imply that I have personally devised a devious ploy to extract monies from Davidson College students for my
personal benefit is certainly ludicrous. Most colleges or universities (Duke, UNC, State) charge a nominal team entry fee. The logic
behind Davidson’s team entry fee is twofold:
1. It helps offset the overall cost of the intramural program (i.e. equipment, official T-shirts).
2. It was thought it would deter forfeits.

It may also surprise Mr. Frampton that students participate in the intramural program for the sheer pleasure and competition that
the program provides. As a matter of fact, nearly one-half of this year’s fall participants are upperclassmen who have already
met their physical education team credit.

No doubt about it, Davidson is a very expensive school to attend. And students do have a legitimate right to
question how their money is being spent. What I do question is the right of students to take cheap shots
and call it journalism. If a faculty, staff member, or student has a question or concern about Davidson College’s intramural
program, either Carla Davis, this year’s intramural president, or I are available to answer them. All you need to do
is call or come by.

Sincerely,
Judy Krenzer

Norwood

Continued from page 8

Blacks remained for the most part uneducated and with few rights. On the surface, minority affairs seem to be handled
well at Davidson. Brenda Tapia has done a wonderful job with the Love of Learning program during the summer, but
if you talk with African-American students, an overwhelming majority will tell you that they are not happy at Davidson. That’s
where Malcolm X comes in. By the definition above, tokenism is practiced at Davidson College. The College appears to be
answering the problems of African-Americans when in all actuality they are not.

First, Davidson has less than 100 African-Americans out of approximately 1600. That means that African-American students make up about 6%
of the student body. Social life for these students is limited because, for the most part, Patterson Court doesn’t appeal
to them. Second, the College has a small number of African-American professors, and an even smaller number of African-American related
courses. For a school that claims to be striving for cultural diversity, this is ridiculous.

The answer I usually receive to these complaints is that most African-American students and professors do not meet Davidson standards.
Well, I think it is about time we re-evaluate Davidson standards. The admissions office always seems to find a way
to admit legacies and children of major contributors who do not meet these standards, so I’m sure the College can
find a way to admit more African-Americans. Davidson, open your eyes and see the problems around campus. Before I go,
let me leave with one thought. In fifteen years, whites in America will be the minority. Do you think the
new majority will forget all the times we didn’t listen?

Levering

Continued from page 8

Given the fact that Davidson’s student body has nearly doubled since the 1950s, I believe that the college should commit
itself publicly never to exceed 1600 students. To continue Davidson’s traditions, we must contain these and other threats, including intolerance
in all its forms. More positively, we must maintain a living memory of the dedicated teachers and administrators—and of the
inquiring students—who have gone before us, and take pride in following in their footsteps. Above all, we must remember that
every student who comes here has the potential to become a fully developed person who can make a significant contribution
to human betterment. Davidson has long experience in helping students to move forward along this path.

Dr. Ralph Levering is an Associate Professor of History at Davidson

Tarver

Continued from page 7

Reasonable priority over events occurring outside the school but do not directly affect the majority of the people on campus.

Sincerely,
Russ Tarver ‘96
