THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992 11

By Albie Varoski

“Columbia, do you know where the f**k you are?” shrieked the rather eloquent Axl Rose, before Guns N’ Roses hammered into their opening song, “Welcome to the Jungle,” at Williams-Brice Stadium in Columbia, South Carolina. I certainly knew where John Beyer and I were—Section 12, Row 29, Seats 10 and 11, surrounded by nearly 50,000 whacked-out screaming fans who looked like the cast from The Road Warrior.

After the energy-packed, raw version of “Jungle,” Guns went into another favorite off their first incredible album, Appetite for Destruction. It was “Mr. Brownstone,” which is a little ditty about the band’s use of heroin. They then played a familiar Paul McCartney tune—”Live and Let Die.” The Gunners continued a good mix of new and old material stemming from all four of their albums: Appetite for Destruction (perhaps containing some of the greatest pieces of musical prose ever written), GN’R Lies, and the Use Your Illusion I and II releases. Even a punk cover song by The Misfits was sung by bassist Duff McKagan. It was simply titled, “Attitude.”

Other classic songs performed that euphoric night were the obvious hits: “Sweet Child O’ Mine,” “Patience,” “Civil War,” and “You Could Be Mine.” Also included were the not-so-obvious hits: “Nightrain,” “Move to the City,” “Bad Obsession,” and “Double Talkin’ Jive.” A name-that-tune rendition of “It’s So Easy” was even played exceedingly well by the Gunners. Another entertaining segment of the GN’R spectacular was a bone-jarring drum solo by Matt Sorum, as well as Slash’s version of The Godfather theme, a.k.a. “Godslobber.” Classic rockers will be happy to know that GN’R even played “Wild Horses” by The Rolling Stones, and songs by The Beatles and Pink Floyd. The original Bob Dylan classic, “Knockin’ on Heaven’s Door,” was done to reggae perfection, which prompted Axl to say that playing reggae got him in the mood to toke it up. He went on to state that in order “to be politically correct, (he) would smoke it, but not inhale.”

Perhaps the highlight of the concert was the performance of “November Rain,” which is undeniably the best piece of music ever written dating back to the days of Gregorian Chant. It is, as Axl says, a song about “unrequited love.” This particular rendition included a catchy prelude by Axl, and Slash even played his guitar solo while standing on Axl’s piano. “November Rain” definitely brought the house down. It was truly awesome! (Then again, what by GN’R isn’t awesome?)

To end the evening (or morning), Guns finished with an unforgettable version of “Paradise City,” complete with fireworks. It was an upbeat and exciting conclusion to the show. Also, the fact that this was the first major rock concert to come to Williams-Brice Stadium spurred the surprisingly articulate Slash to pay GN’R fans the greatest of compliments by saying that we “kicked ass.” The concert was amazingly unbelievable. However, being a true “Gunshead,” it did have its (limited) imperfections. Namely, I was disappointed that several things were left out. First, “Don’t Cry.” They played this ballad when I saw them on New Year’s Eve in Miami. I wanted to see it again, Axl.

By Will Lazenby

The Gun in Betty Lou's Handbag is a sure-fire hit. Penelope Ann Miller stars as Betty Lou Perkins. Eric Thal co-stars as Officer Alex Perkins, Betty Lou’s husband. Our story takes place in the rural town of Tetley, Massachusetts. Betty Lou is the local librarian. Alex plays an over-ambitious cop looking to prove himself. He gets his chance when a mafia member hiding out in Tetley is murdered. Despite his diligent investigation, (so diligent he skipped his own anniversary dinner), Alex gets nowhere with the case. It turns out that Betty Lou finds the only shred of evidence when she discovers the murder weapon on her walk through the park. Plucking the pistol from the water, she hustles to the nearest phone to call Alex. But Alex, sure that nothing his librarian wife found could be important, brushes her off. Distraught, Betty Lou tries to find refuge even among the racks of dresses at the local store. There she is accosted by her entourage of chattering friends who won't stop firing questions at her. “Betty Lou, what are you gonna buy?” “What kind of food should we get for the library open-house?” “Does this color match my eyes?”

Eyes welling with tears, Betty Lou bolts to the ladies' room. Staring with blurred eyes at her reflection, petite Betty Lou grabs for the pistol, points it with trembling hands, and lets loose a round into the mirror. The mirror shatters, Betty Lou screams, and some old lady in a stall bursts out of the restroom with her bloomer underwear still around her ankles. Officer Alex arrives on the scene, and Betty Lou is taken downtown. There’s one problem. Since none has been found yet, Betty Lou is technically the only suspect in the mafia murder. By now our librarian is really steaming. She’s mad at Alex. She’s mad at her friends. She feels so repressed and ignored that when they shoot the big question, “Betty Lou, did you do it?” she answers: “Yes, I killed him,” and the whole town turns upside down. Betty Lou goes to jail. And she likes it. There she befriends a prostitute. She hires a fresh-out-of-law-school lawyer to defend her.: much of this world is pissing him off. And finally, snippy dancing on stage. We heard stories about topless girls roaming the stage during a few Guns’ songs at recent concerts. There were none to be found in Columbia. Well, what it boils down to is this: Was the Guns N’ Roses show worth thirty dollars? Honestly, I would have paid thirty dollars just to see “November Rain.” (This is an extremely scary thought.) Seriously; not being biased, I have to personally say that this Guns show was the best concert ever on the North American continent by any band. It also reaffirmed the notion that Guns N’ Roses is the number one rock band in the world. It is simply a given. I’ve got two words for you: Guns N’ Roses. (Contributions to this article were made by John “The Headbanger” Beyer.)

night-school lawyer to defend her on the grounds of self-defense. She gets new clothes, new hair, and a new image. Drab Tetley is brewing with excitement, even managing to attract out-of-town reporters to cover the story. The little librarian that everyone ignored finally gets what she’s always wanted: attention. Meanwhile, while Betty Lou basks in the limelight, trouble is brewing in Louisiana. A Cajun mafia boss known only as Billy (William Forsythe) is coming to Tetley. The man killed there had a tape of Billy that could put the Cajun boss behind bars, and Billy is going after the murderess to get it. He comes into town, kidnaps Betty Lou’s lawyer, and demands the tape. Alex, (who has in the meantime acted crazy enough to get thrown off the force), and Betty Lou join forces as equals to foil Billy, save the lawyer, and get back together. I’m not going to tell you how the couple beat the mafia boss, nor am I going to say how Betty Lou and Alex reconcile their differences. Though a little unrealistic, it’s still worth the four bucks you spend on a ticket at the Union. I give it a B+.

Secondly, excluded from the F show was an Axl harangue on how my friends and I were disappointed that we did not get to enjoy topless and uncensored...

Continued on page 10

Zappa appeals to the intelligentsia with his thorough awareness of current events around the world and his deep interest and involvement in the political arena of the United States. First, Zappa has created some jammin’ music through his musical genius (we mean that, really) and his infinite wisdom and foresight which has launched some prominent and spectacular musical careers. Early in his own history, when he played with the Mothers, he chose to include in his band Lowell George and some other guy who later went on to form Little Feat. This means all Little Feat albums made prior to George’s death are tainted indirectly by Zappa and the knowledge he imparted to George and the gang. Genesis fans beware. Chester Thompson, that amazing drummer who does what Phil Collins refuses to do anymore, was introduced to fame through the Mothers. For all you hair farmin’ corporate rockers, Steve Vai, of David Lee Roth and Whitesnake fame (what is a Whitesnake, anyway?), began his amazing journey due to the grace of FZ. And for you “art rock” fans (indeed, a respectable genre of music), Adrian Belew who has played with David Bowie and King Crimson, began his zany career with Mr. Zappa by singing such classics as “City Of Tiny Lights” and “Broken Hearts Are For A—holes” (those dashes are so we can cover our collective ass).

Speaking of funny classics, Frank has a great sense of humor. His book, The Real Frank Zappa Book, contains myriad hilarious stories. Since you have not read it, you should; however, you are on your own to find it because the library does not have it. (How it never made the Best Seller list, we will never know.) As soon as we receive our first check from this column’s syndication, we will donate a copy to the library. The Yams From Outer Space, a popular Davidson attraction, cover some of FZ’s more humorous tunes such as the aforementioned “Broken Hearts...,” and “Don’t Eat The Yellow Snow” (Hey, Frank’s wise, too). Frank is constantly on the lookout for amusing news. However, Zappa can be quite serious. He is very politically aware and active. Before being diagnosed as having prostate cancer, he had seriously looked into running for President of the United States. He has a deep respect for the Constitution and wants to see the American government run efficiently and properly. He also played a large part in the Senate hearings regarding the PMRC’s attempt to censor musicians’ freedom. Clinton supporters, think about that when you get carded to buy an album which has a “swear word” on it. Does Tipper honestly believe that music has the equally evil, mind-bending, soul-scorching, hell-sending effects of alcohol?

That is enough about Frank Zappa. The purpose of this article, indeed this column, is to open your eyes to the wealth of enjoyable music which exists behind the flashy displays in the front of the record stores. There is more to life than the Grateful Dead and the Allman Brothers (not that they are bad, but they are not the final authority on music). You came to Davidson to open your mind to a liberal education, so be more receptive to the new, the unknown, and the unusual. You might even have a good time or learn something.