| THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

From the Archives: Towner Blackstock

Of Suitcases and Alcohol

If one is to believe all the mad rout about the new alcohol policy, the long-stationary students of Davidson now pack their bags and head to “greener” pastures each and every weekend. Many indignant editorialists denounced the feared development of the “suitcase syndrome” here; however, in their exuberance they seem to have missed the fact that, for decades, Davidsonians have been prone to leave on the weekends, and that no alcohol policy has kept them from having a good time.

The re-establishment of the rail line through Davidson in 1871 gave students the first real opportunity to leave the locality easily, although they still had to gain permission from a professor to leave town (at least, until 1916). Nonetheless, a student editorialist gushed over being “no longer shut out from the rest of creation.” Entertainment and, for the adventurous, alcohol, could be found in Charlotte and other nearby towns. Dismissal from the College awaited any student caught having touched the stuff, though!

Automobiles brought great changes to Davidson beginning in the early twenties. Robert Stowe '24 had one of the first cars on campus in 1922, and had quite a time carousing about with his Bachelor Club (later Phi Gamma Delta) friends. Actions of this sort, however, soon caught the disapproval of the conservative (meaning no dancing) trustees. They wrote in 1924 “that the students of the College are travelling far and wide over the country in automobiles and otherwise, and thus bringing criticism upon themselves and the College. The Board desires to call to the attention of the Faculty this growing evil...” Davidson President W.J. Martin simply saw it as “a passing phase of the automobile problem.”

By the late twenties, with cars making entertainment like Charlotte dance clubs and women more available, the strict Presbyterian supporters of Davidson complained of declining moral values. Back then, they believed dancing promoted promiscuity and impropriety. While the College did not allow dancing in Davidson, students freely held dances in Charlotte, where they also found easy access to alcohol. Yet the administration, powerless to stop off-campus dances, could not easily restrict drinking off-campus either. Students long knew, and College Officials admitted by 1939, that dances were a fact of life and that to control drinking they had to permit and chaperone dance functions.

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM
MOVIES at THE LAKE
ALL STEREO SOUND
"UNFORGIVEN" 3:25, 7:05, 9:25
Raise some hell. 3:10, 5:15
"PET SEMATARY TWO" 7:20, 9:25
SINGLE WHITE FEMALE 3:05, 5:10, 7:15, 9:20

During the fifties and sixties, big dances were held four or five times a year with Inter-Fraternity Council sponsored bands like The Lettermen playing. Belk dorm residents completely vacated the building, leaving it available for all of their dates to stay the weekend. Of course, the college chaperoned the female visitors, even though the fraternity parties held in rented off-campus cabins ran after the official dances from 12 to 4 in the morning. The fraternities never partied in their on-campus houses, since after 1954 any student in possession or having consumed alcohol on campus or at official events would be dismissed. Before then, any student caught drinking anywhere would automatically be dismissed.

For the remainder of the year, however, the road trip dominated. Boys will go where the girls are, and they weren’t at Davidson. Students memorized the mileage to women’s colleges like Randolph Macon (205), Sweetbriar (210), Converse (90), Salem (70), W.C. (100), and others. Entire fraternity chapters would pile into their cars and descend upon a ladies’ campus, present themselves, and invite those willing to join them for a date (remember, in 1962, 85% of Davidson was Greek). The women, just as lonely and bored on their own campus, lined right up. Upperclassmen arranged their schedules so that they could make weekday trips to closer campuses like Winthrop.(about an hour), or even to Randolph Macon, since the girls there didn’t have any Wednesday classes and could stay out ‘til midnight on Tuesdays. At least once a quarter, the wilder men would attempt longer trips to destinations like Washington D.C. While this might seem tame today, remember that I-77 didn’t exist until around 1972; and even until the late sixties I-85 to Atlanta wasn’t complete. Every spring they traveled to the Virginia International Raceway, and after graduation entire fraternities spent a week at the beach. How did they find the time? “Davidson was hard back then,” comments Jerry Blackstock '66; “but you could manipulate it around. The guys who played football avoided the hard stuff... we bulled our way through ethics and philo courses.”

Davidson had attractions of its own. Up Main Street past the Anchor Grill you’d find Hattie’s Truck Stop, a great one-room beer and burger place. Students would go for food and Pabst Blue Ribbon, the popular beer since ‘lite’ beer didn’t exist and it was a nickel cheaper than Budweiser. When the freight train came by about midnight, they would sit on the hoods of their cars out in the parking lot, throwing their used cans at the rail cars. Unfortunately, Hattie’s burned down some time ago.

Of course, no one can forget Queen’s College, long a Davidson mainstay. Queens had its own dance weekends and parties just like Davidson and other women’s schools, and it was only twenty miles away. Sooner or later, every Davidson man dated at Queens, and more than a few found wives there too. However, it never replaced the venturesome allure of the road trip, since one could date at Queens anytime.

By 1970-71 thirty women attended Davidson under an exchange program with women’s colleges, and in 1974 women attended as full students. At the same time, radical changes in administration and student ideas resulted in the 1968 Code of Responsibility, with self-scheduled exams (1970-71) and other unheard-of freedoms. Alcohol was permitted in private homes, the fraternity court houses, and dorms, radically changing the social structure of Davidson. Fraternities left Patterson Court with the imposition of ‘self-selection’ and the freedoms of the late sixties hit Davidson in full by 1972.

Even with all of the changes, though, Davidson men still dated elsewhere, and fraternities still held mixers with Queens women. Slowly, as the excesses of the seventies became the excesses of the eighties, Davidson students wrapped themselves ever more in their academics and their own social scene, still laden with alcohol but slowly ridding itself of the heavy drug problems inherent since the early seventies. For many years students roamed the county, state, and region looking for fun either banned or otherwise not available at Davidson. With the high people of today’s student, we can hardly say Davidson students do not get out, although the social opportunities on campus today outweigh anything offered twenty or even ten years ago, providing more incentive to stay here for the weekend.

However, still reeling from the shock therapy made necessary by liability and risk management, Patterson Court can’t immediately offer the diverse social climate found on more acclimated campuses. Instead of rambling uselessly over the new policy, perhaps those dissatisfied with Davidson might wish to take up the road-trip tradition, if only to find that many other campuses are stricter than ours. As President Walter Lingle wrote in 1931 amidst the inane debate over dancing, “I wish that we could drop some of these extraneous discussions and get down to the real work of the College.”

This article was compiled using "Archives" on page 6.