THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992 11

From the Left: Sara Carlson

1992: The Year Of The Woman

National media proclaimed 1992 “The Year of the Woman.” Eight months into it, American women and men cannot ignore the
immense power women, specifically political commentators, political candidates, and political wives wield in the races for Congress and the presidency.
From Hillary Clinton to Marilyn Quayle, from Barbara Boxer to Carol Moseley Braun, political women readily capture headlines and imaginations.

But why this year? Why this election? What do the women of 1992 have that previous generations have only dreamed
of?

We’ve got numbers. More women than ever before are running for office. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, California Democrats leading
their races for Senate, have the opportunity to carry California out of its cultural and economic crisis and into glory
as the only state in history to elect two women to serve in Washington’s prestigious “Boy’s Club.” Their election would
literally double the number of female faces in that traditional institution. Illinois Democrat Carol Moseley Braun runs a good chance
of being the first woman of color to enter the Senate, offering a personal and political perspective never before seen
on Capitol Hill.

We’ve got attention. Even President Bush, unable to criticize Democrat Bill Clinton, allows his aides and speechwriters to dig into
Clinton’s wife. Pat Buchanan’s ridiculously conservative address to the Republican convention was loaded with anti-feminist and (many would agree) anti-woman
rhetoric. Not that women are cowed by these feeble blasts. Barbara Bush, rather than appeasing the fundamentalist camp, publicly disagreed
with Buchanan’s policies, and by default, the policies of Dan Quayle. Hillary Clinton, hardly a wallflower, responds with humor and
biting wit to each attack by those more comfortable with women locked into kitchens and nurseries than clocked into work.

We’ve got empathy. Mary Fisher’s heart-wrenching plea for AIDS education and research funding at the GOP national convention was based
on her experience as a wife, mother, and long-time Republican. Anybody alive last fall remembers the face of Anita Hill,
harassed, ignored, and ridiculed by the all-male panel of moral judges, too concerned with appearing racially open to remember feeling
honestly human. The words of these women have touched the hearts of all who heard them and inspired many to
take action against gross unfairness.

We’ve got cynicism. Americans want change in government, and women in office may be change enough for many to regain
confidence in institutions riddled with scandal and petty politics. Men and women alike want America out of debt, out of
international disgrace, and into secure standing as a great nation. For two hundred years we’ve given men a chance to
form the politics of the nation; now it is the turn of women. Seventy years after a successful fight for
the vote, women are fighting for heretofore unfathomable opportunity in government.

Most importantly, we’ve got enthusiasm. As the number of women in local and state politics increases, the number of political
role models for young women increases. While some people may think women are crazy to choose to enter the vicious
and sometimes deadly arena of male politics, others realize that new perspectives and new voices are needed to keep politics
vital. The trick of 1992 will be to maintain momentum. We must stretch “The Year of the Woman” into “The
Decade of the Woman” into “The Century of the Woman” until being a woman...

Top 10 Reasons To Vote Against President Bush

By Julian Kirtley

#10) He will overturn Roe v. Wade. O.K., weakest argument first. This isn’t a weak argument because there is a
chance that Bush won’t overturn Roe v. Wade; he most definitely will. This is a weak argument because between 20
and 35 percent of Americans, (depending on who conducts the poll), believe that this is a good thing. True, most
of these people are misogynistic fundamentalists, but unfortunately, they do vote. If you are a member of this highly vocal
minority you might as well quit reading now. None of my other arguments are going to make much sense to
you either, as they hinge on the philosophy that individual freedom is actually a good thing, and besides, I’m going
to use a few big words.

#9) Dan Quayle. Why beat this dead horse? I'll tell you why. The problem with Dan Quayle is that he
makes so many bone-headed mistakes that people accurately, that he is controlled by dangerously right-wing elements within our government. Quayle’s
main governmental function, aside from presiding over a few badly bungled NASA experiments, has been his leadership of America’s so-called
“Council on Competitiveness.” The sole function of this organization is to lobby against environmental protection. I know, it’s hard to
believe, but check it out for yourself. Bush, like everyone else, knows that Quayle is a bozo, but he believes
that dumping him from the ticket now would just be admitting that the first presidential decision he made, the choice
of a running mate, was one of the worst decisions ever made by a U.S. president, so Quayle stays on.
Quayle jokes aside, if Bush is re-elected, Quayle will be one irregular heartbeat away from the power to destroy the
world. Scary monsters, boys and girls.

#8) Bush is a Political Sleaze-Ball. This man, who in...in government is no more surprising and noteworthy than being a
woman at home, a woman in the boardroom, a woman in the fields, or a woman anywhere. Accuse Clinton of
running an unfair campaign, rode into office on the coattails of Willie Horton. He has his Lee Atwater or Mary
Matalin use vicious racist or sexist attacks on his opposition, then personally disavows the attacks and makes them say “sorry.”
The next day, another such attack comes forth, and the cycle starts over again. George Bush has vowed he will
say or do anything to get re-elected. Does that mean he will probably lie about taxes again? You betcha. Bomb
Iraq again? You betcha. Ask for a campaign contribution from personal friend Deng Xiao-P’ing? Oops, I’m getting ahead of myself.

#7) Bush is a Cold Warrior. O.K., maybe Bush’s policies had something to do with the collapse of European communism
and maybe they didn’t. The fact of the matter is that the end of the Cold War caught Bush totally
off guard. After the failed coup in the Soviet...

See "No Bush” on page 12

This time last year, I wrote my first column for the Davidsonian that is prevalent on all college campuses these
days. Having witnessed the great flux of the last year or so, I’ve come to expect a change in everything,
but when I looked at the schedule for Orientation this year, I saw more or less the same things I
experienced as a freshman and witnessed as a hall counselor, and it was reassuring.

Most returning students can attest to the fact that Davidson is changing at such an amazing speed that it’s difficult
for some of us to see the Davidson of two or three years ago as the Davidson of today. The
1991-92 school year challenged each of us, I think, because for many of us, change is not something we particularly
welcome, and yet each of us was subject to the effects and aftereffects of a tremendous dynamism, an “effort to
create and foster a freshman experience that is uncommonly special and occasionally strange.” A year later and with another year
of living on a freshman hall under my belt, I still agree, and I find myself strangely thankful for the
enduring attitude of the College regarding the freshman experience.

The overall tone of that first article made plain my belief that, yes, Davidson really is different, that the so-called
freshman experience is unique for making freshmen feel special and occasionally strange. Hall counselors haven’t been replaced with armed monitors
and advisors still have their freshmen to dinner. The Cake Race is still run and the winners are still rewarded
with cholesterol. The Regatta is still won by the most sketchy and rule-bending hall, and yes, there’s still a Court
to look forward to, though it is different. Flickerball games, hall mixers, and Court tours loom large. While there have,
of course, been a few changes in the ways of the freshman, I am grateful that the Freshman Experience has
survived. I think we should do all we can to offer this year’s freshman class some of the same experiences
we enjoyed. I’m sure they’ll rise to the occasion on the fifth of September, their first day on the Court.

Deep Thoughts...
By Kirby Shealy

In light of last year’s uproarious episodes of righteous indignation from week to week in this, the South’s foremost college
weekly, I have decided to write a column which refuses to get caught up in the surging emotions of this
campus. We Davidsonians are a most opinionated lot and we tend to get right upset when one of our fold
turns his or her attacks toward some idea or cause that we hold close to our hearts. By the third
or fourth week of school, Davidson will become “The World” to all of us (perhaps because we don’t read the
paper or watch the news nearly enough). Little things that merely inconvenience us now—the new alcohol policy, not having a
shuttle service to and from the apartments every fifteen minutes, etc.—will, in a matter of weeks, swell into the most
traumatic and heinous crimes against humanity in the history of the planet.

Very few of us really know what living in the real world is like. Unless you have spent some time
abroad or you have lived on your own during the summer, you haven’t quite tasted true independence. What I mean
to say is that you haven’t truly been tested as a human being unless you have to find your way
from the subway station to your hotel in a country where the people don’t speak your language and everyone around
you looks like they’d kill you as soon...

See "Kirby" on page 12

ATTENTION SENIORS...
Caps and Gowns will be distributed on September 1st and 2nd in Chambers Gallery from 9-12 PM (These will be
the same caps and gowns you will use in May). Convocation will be on Saturday, September 26th.
