THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

Campus Newspaper Publishes Rape Victim's Name
By John Williams

(CPS) A newspaper’s decision to report the name and address of a rape victim has created a stormy controversy at
Marshall University in Huntington, WV, and the paper’s editor said he will not back down from printing names in the
future.

The story, which included the woman’s address and details of the attack, was published in September. Several campus groups condemned
the newspaper for violating the woman’s right to privacy. It is not illegal in West Virginia to publish a rape
victim’s name, but several officials questioned the ethics and reasons for publishing the woman’s name. She does not attend Marshall
University and the alleged attack occurred off campus.

The dilemma is multi-faceted, but boils down to a question of rights—those of the newspaper vs. those of the victim.
While many involved in such cases present the issue in either-or terms, there are many levels of debate, journalists and
communications faculty say.

Kevin Melrose, editor of The Parthenon, said the seven-member student editorial board voted 4-3 to publish the rape victim’s name.
The board consists of six men and one woman; the woman voted to publish the name, he said. The article
appeared in the Sept. 22 edition.

The reasons for publishing the name were two-fold, Melrose said. He said that the newspaper had a “journalistic dedication to
fairness” to present facts and “do what is fair and just.” Additionally, he said, by printing the woman’s name, he
hoped to change the social stigma attached to rape.

“We felt that in part we are a vehicle for social change and that one of our responsibilities was to
move forward to stop treating victims of sexual assault (so) that they should be ashamed,” he said. “They have nothing
to be ashamed of. They are victims of a violent attack and we wanted to treat them like other cases
of violent attack.”

That line of reasoning, however, fell short for some people on campus, including Dee Cockrille, who is director of the
school’s women’s center. Cockrille worked with the woman after the alleged attack, and again after her name and address appeared
in the paper.

“My response is that we’re not talking facts, we’re talking about people’s lives. When a person decides to tell, that
should be his or her choice,” Cockrille said.

Assistant journalism professor Debra Belluomini, the paper’s adviser, said she was against disclosing the woman’s name, but there was nothing
she could do to stop it from being printed.

“From my own experience, I thought it wasn’t the best thing to do,” she said. “I expected some reaction, but
not the amount that came about.”

However, some journalism faculty members from across the nation are hesitant to draw such conclusions. Most favor discretion in such
cases. Ralph Izard, director of the journalism department at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio, said sometimes a victim’s name should
be used, as in a case where there is a serial rapist.

“It must be absolutely bona fide that you are warning the community, and can make a case that is valuable
in a public sense to identify the people and provide the information to potential victims,” he said.

He said that by having a “hard-core” decision to publish all rape victim names, newspapers are practicing lazy journalism. The
decision has already been made in terms of policy, so there is no newsroom debate.

“My general predisposition is to say no, I would not identify a rape victim,” he said. “There are many reasons
that it can compound the trauma, and I buy it. Nothing is absolute in journalism.”

Pints o' Plenty
Drive Exceeds Collection Goal
By Sally Stone

On Monday, October 26, Davidson’s ROTC sponsored its annual Red Cross blood drive. It was held in Chambers Gallery from
11:30 until past five o’clock. Richard Rivera, ROTC cadet in charge of organizing the drive, said he was “very pleased”
with Davidson’s participation. The Red Cross had set the day’s goal at the collection of 100 units of blood which
was surpassed for a total of 128 units.

The ROTC would like to extend their thanks to all students, faculty, and staff who patiently endured the wait and
generously donated.

Florence Crittenton Services
By Rachel Hornor

In the late 1800s, a young unmarried woman became pregnant. She could not bear to face her family and the
society that would condemn her, so she...| crushed and swallowed a glass bottle. This tragic story sparked in one self-made
businessman the desire to aid desperate young women in similar situations. He established a residence home and named it after
his daughter, Florence Crittenton. Crittenton’s project was an amazing success and has grown immensely in the subsequent years. Today, there
are over fifty homes in the United States under the Florence Crittenton services. They offer help to women in a
variety of ways. There are residence homes for unwed pregnant women fully equipped with schools, social services, career counseling, and
medical facilities. There are also daycares and transitional houses providing postnatal services. Every Thursday night, five to ten Davidson volunteers
meet with women residing in the Florence Crittenton home in Charlotte to tutor, mentor, giggle, and gab. These students provide
services to the residents that the Florence Crittenton Organization (non-profit) cannot buy, while helping traumatized women regain self-respect through academic
success, personal encouragement, and special activities. Anyone interested should call Rachel (-6285) or Liz (-6306).

Ellis Continued from page 4

Ellis explained that the best way to begin to understand the Native American is to “go into your own tradition,
whether Chinese, Dutch, etc., and learn about your own culture and its wealth.” He encouraged the audience to “spend time
with your elders,” and to “support freedom in all colors.” Ellis then commented, “You know, none of us are free
until all of us are free.”

Kimbrough Continued from page 1

...lot of blood.” By that time, there were people outside who had heard the accident, and one man drove Kimbrough
to the hospital where she had surgery late that night. The bullet shattered Kimbrough’s jaw and knocked out several of
her teeth on the right side of her mouth. According to the oral surgeon, Kimbrough’s teeth saved her life. Had
the bullet not initially struck her teeth, it would have hit the spinal cord or the carotid artery which would
have caused paralysis or death. Because the bullet in the back right side of Kimbrough’s neck is not lodged in
a harmful area, it was not taken out in surgery. It was explained to Kimbrough that it would be more
harmful to “go fishing” for the bullet. It is not likely to dislodge itself, and Kimbrough said that she cannot
tell it is there. According to Kimbrough, the man did not have to shoot. “He wasn’t interested in the car.
He was obviously interested in cash... I feel pretty sure it was drug-related.” Two weeks after the incident, the Beaufort
police arrested the two men who attacked Kimbrough and Hillman. One is 18 and the other 20, and both have
police records of drug possession. The two men confessed to the charges. Because Beaufort is a haven for tourism, the
entire town was horrified that this accident happened to one of their guests. According to Kimbrough, they made it their
priority to make sure she had what she needed and was well taken care of. After spending a week in
the hospital in Beaufort, Kimbrough returned home to Davidson. Kimbrough described the accident as a “bizarre incident.” She said, “I
was in the wrong place at the wrong time. This is always something that happens to other people... We should
always be careful.” According to Kimbrough, she was in a safe, well-lit place. People were around, and it was not
late at night. “It was just like it happened in front of the Soda Shop on Main Street.” With the
help of the splint mending her jaw, the cards, flowers, and support from family, friends, students, and faculty members, Kimbrough
is “feeling stronger every day and is doing really well.” “I have found out that I am tougher than I
thought,” she stated; “It makes you rearrange your priorities when you come that close to losing your life... I’ve come
to appreciate things that I didn’t before.” Kimbrough and Hillman will be returning to Beaufort on Monday, November 2 to
help the police with their case against the two men.

GRAND OPENING KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD

TEPPAN-YAKI Shrimp, Chicken & Steak $13.95

Hours Wet Bar & Sushi Bar-Dinner Lunch 11:30 am - 2 pm (No lunch on Saturday) Dinner Sun. - Thur.
5 - 10 pm Fri - Sat 5 - 11 pm I-77 Exit 28 Next to Movies at the Lake
20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr. Cornelius, NC 704-896-7778 Highway 73
