THE DAVIDSONIAN ELECTION '92 MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

In order to provide our readers with the information required to make a wise choice in Tuesday's elections, the editorial
board of the Davidsonian held a special forum Thursday night at which the candidates for the SGA presidency, the SGA
vice-presidency, and the Union presidency delivered speeches and answered questions from the board. We have printed the transcript from that
forum on the following pages, and we urge you to read the candidates’ statements carefully before you vote Tuesday. All
photos for this section were taken by Mary McNeill.

SGA Presidential Candidates

Dave Tonidandel

Hi, I’m Dave Tonidandel and I’m running for SGA president. Most of you don’t know me as a politician, because
I’m not one. However, many of you do know me as a student who is willing and able to take
a strong stance representing the interests of the Davidson student body. In this regard, I view my lack of SGA
experience as a positive rather than a negative attribute. Not only will I be a much-needed blood transfusion into the
barely beating heart of the SGA, but I have also not been an accomplice to the heinous crimes of unrepresentative
voting and inefficacy.

This school desperately needs someone to represent student interests. The president of the SGA ought to act as a conduit
between the students, the SGA, and the administration; not merely between an overly concessionary SGA and its overseeing masters, the
Board of Trustees and the faculty. Before I tell you why I am the best candidate for the SGA presidency,
let me ask you one question: “What has the SGA done for you?” Think about whether the SGA has represented
your best interests or if it has simply become a self-contained, self-serving, self-congratulatory unit more interested in appeasing the interests
of an overbearing administration, Board of Trustees, and faculty.

Here are a few examples of failures by the SGA to accurately represent the interests of Davidson students:

Minus Grades. It is extremely apparent that the minus grade system is unpopular with a large percentage of Davidson students.
Yet minus grades whizzed through the SGA, highlighting the fact that the SGA’s dealings with minus grades were largely ineffective
and misrepresentative of student interests.

Shortened Exam Periods. In shortening, by one day, the number of days for students to schedule their final exams, the
SGA has deprived students of a desperately needed day of study. Most students felt that they needed this extra day
and by shortening the exam period the SGA has again misrepresented the Davidson student body.

No Lofts in Belk. By not allowing loft building in Belk dormitory, the SGA has taken yet another freedom from
the Davidson student without any communication with the student body.

Unrepresentative Voting. Due to a severe lack of communication between the SGA and the student body, there have been several
issues passed nearly unanimously by the SGA when in fact large percentages of students fundamentally disagree with SGA action. The
schism between student government and student body will have dire consequences if the current pattern of misrepresentation is allowed to
continue.

Davidson College is at a turning point. With important issues like F.L.A.G. and the alcohol policy, the student body cannot
afford to be misrepresented or misinformed. The students of Davidson deserve accurate representation and I believe that I can provide
the leadership which the students of Davidson College deserve.

Davidsonian: David, in the past we have had a number of problems with kiosks for flyers to be posted around
campus. These problems have been logistical or otherwise, but the end result is that we still do not have them
and it is ridiculous. I am not so concerned with the kiosks themselves but rather with other issues in the
same vein like institutionalization of recycling on campus. How would you as President go about doing these things more efficiently?

Tonidandel: I agree with what you’re looking at. What you’re looking at is a deterioration of leadership throughout the school.
The student body is apathetic as far as dealing with the SGA. The SGA has been unable to communicate effectively
with them. What is needed is a strong leader for the SGA to communicate with the students, not just the
trustees and the faculty but with the actual student body and I think if that’s done, then we’re going to
get these things done.

Davidsonian: But communication’s not going to get things done quite so quickly if it’s something logistic and requires a bunch
of grunt work and phone calls. Is that the kind of leadership you’re talking about?

Tonidandel: That’s leadership and that’s communication.

Davidsonian: You mentioned both minus grades and shortened exam periods and right now those are things that the SGA is
working on as far as trying to reverse the current policies. They weren’t things that were passed by the SGA
but were passed by the faculty. What do you think you could do differently because I know the SGA has
two committees working on that right now?

Tonidandel: The problem there again is ineffective communication. The SGA did not communicate effectively with the faculty in saying that
the Davidson student body vehemently opposes these plans that you want to implement. By not saying that to the committees
they allowed the committees to bowl over the SGA and just pass these.

Davidsonian: What other leadership roles have you taken around the College community that might have prepared you to be the
SGA President?

Tonidandel: I helped found SHOC, the Student Health Options and Concerns committee.and I’m currently treasurer of that organization. I’ve been
a leader in Phi Delta Theta: I was secretary last year, pledge master the year before, and I was elected
vice-president this year. I’ve also been a varsity athlete, and as you all know, you have to be strong of
character, and a leader to be on a team.

Davidsonian: There’s been a great deal of talk about racial tension on campus this year. Do you see problems in
race relations, and how do you foresee the SGA dealing with them under your administration?

Tonidandel: I think the student body needs an outlet for communicating their desires to the faculty and the administration. I
think that there is definitely a problem and it’s going to have to be solved by the students, because that’s
who it involves most. I don’t think the administration’s coming in and saying “we need this committee, we need this
much funding, and we need a quota of this much ‘whatever’” will solve the problem. It’s really up to the
students. I totally support the idea of a black fraternity coming to campus. Even in competition over silly fraternity things,
like egg-fights, etc., I think that would enhance race relations just because more people would be involved.

Laura Cunningham: Have you ever thought about what makes the SGA different from any other group on campus? It is
the only place where students from many diverse groups are guaranteed a seat at the table where campus problems are
tackled and solved. Representatives from all over campus work together trying to make a difference. I want to be president
of this organization because I value that aspect. I have the necessary vision, experience, commitment, and discipline to fulfill my
responsibilities. I have been involved in SGA and other areas of campus long enough to have a realistic picture of
the college. Although I love Davidson, I know it is not perfect. I have dreams for this school, not as
a problem-free college, but as a place where the student body can work to make Davidson the place it should
be. The present intolerance on campus doesn’t have to remain. We the students need to fight it ourselves, whether through
the Council on Minority Affairs, Solidarity Committee, or Davidsonian editorials. We cannot deny the role of alcohol in student life,
but we the students, not the administration, in order to form a more perfect college, must work through present means
such as the Council on Campus and Religious Life and Patterson Court Council to make the necessary changes. We must
reverse the deterioration of relationships among students, faculty, and staff that result in problems concerning academic issues and perceptions of
each other. Over the past three years, I have already been working to change much of what is undesirable about
the Davidson experience. As SGA President, I will lead the students in solving problems and communicating with the faculty, administration,
and trustees. My background in working constructively with others and my experiences as Vice-President have both guided me in my
decision to run for this office. After three years on SGA, I have participated in many of the areas already
mentioned. Working with bylaws and budgets, sitting on committees and councils, and just talking with people in all areas of
campus has prepared me to work for us. If we think Davidson should be better, it can be. Last week,
Rev. Bernice King told us that when students stand, a nation stands. If we can influence a nation so much,
imagine what we can do here. She also reminded us of our interrelatedness. When one person suffers, all suffer, a
concept especially true in our small community. If we ignore problems on this campus, we are the victims. As President
of the SGA, I will work to keep communication open, educating students, and voicing their concerns. Only then can we
work together to make this school the place it should be.

Davidsonian: The SGA hasn’t been particularly visible around campus this year. How do you plan to change that? Essentially I’m
asking you how your leadership will differ from that of the current president?

Cunningham: Maybe because of our president this year, one major focus of the SGA has been on relations with the
trustees, and that’s not a very visible aspect of student government. I think there are a lot of funnels which
could be used more often, such as DCTV. I tried to have a video made of all the SGA committee
chairs, but that didn’t go through the video department. Another vehicle that could be used is the Davidsonian. Whoever does
win the election, I would urge them to write something in the Davidsonian about what’s going on in the SGA.
Rather than just give a synopsis of the meetings, to tackle a specific issue and say “this is what the
SGA is doing.” I feel like a lot of what the SGA has been working on is still to come
as far as the committees are concerned. We’re still going to have a careers symposium; we're still going to have
a leadership training event; and those are two things which will be very visible on campus. The minus grades forum
is also coming up, and I hope that is something that will make the SGA more visible. In other words,
a lot of what the SGA has been working on is still to come.

Davidsonian: What, specifically, are the projects on which you have been working this year, and what do you want to
focus on in the future?

Cunningham: Right now, I’m sitting on the Council for Minority Affairs, and under Prem, that’s been going really well. I
hope to continue some of the work that he’s started. Relationships between
