THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992

Snow Continued from page 1

"Survival depends on how you can work the media.” With this, he talked about the very real disconnection from society
that politics involves. Concern for upcoming primaries and the economic situation pretty much blocks everything else out, he said. His
third tip involved the fact that, “sound bites make the news, not history.” A sound bite is a concluding, definitive
statement that concludes an argument. The famous phrase, “read my lips, no new taxes,” was a sound bite. Unfortunately, people
read the sound bite without understanding the argument. Snow said that, consequently, sound bites can kill you if they don’t
work out. “You have to make an argument in a speech, and you have to be intelligent in your usage
of clear, concise language,” Snow said.

Snow then turned to addressing the problems of our nation. He believes that with the Cold War over and the
old ties with our neighbors being severed by their increasing independence, we are in a bit of a period of
fumbling along. He pointed out that, “The lack of an idea matters as much as the presence of an idea.”
He also emphasized his belief in the importance of trivia because trivia is fun and trivial ideas matter.

He concluded his speech by addressing three key issues that he is very concerned with. His first concern revolved around
the racial relations of Americans, and that serious changes need to evolve. Snow asserted that David Duke and Al Sharpton
are two villains of society that hurt the possibility of change. Secondly, he said that social projects and institutions in
our country have experienced difficulty and have degenerated to a point of “forced progress.” Snow said it is time for
those responsible to, “just tell the truth for once.” He cited the problem with the inadequacy of our nation’s public
schools and the problem with our social security programs as examples. Snow said that our nation’s “moral compass has gone
off-center.” People are more concerned with how they will look than with what is going on, he said.

Lastly, Snow said that tolerance is a serious problem in our society. He said, “Political correctness is... a stale form
of etiquette.” In his question/answer session, Snow remarked that the President is a complicated man, willing to make compromises for
small gains toward long-term goals instead of remaining steadfast.

Snow also outlined the process by which the State of the Union Address and other of the President’s speeches were
written. This year, the address revolved around the economic package President Bush is proposing, and it was worked on by
a committee piecemeal with comments from the President, his advisors, and his friends. For any of the President’s speeches, the
process begins with a review of Bush’s complete schedule of speaking engagements, and with the assignment of particular speeches to
various Project Officers. The officer(s) then research and write up a preliminary speech that goes through the President and any
other necessary commentators. A revised copy is worked out and speech cards are prepared for Bush. He pointed out that
speechwriters usually have a feel for what will resonate, and they will sometimes insist that certain points of a speech
remain intact no matter what.

Snow then spoke about Pat Buchanan. “Pat Buchanan,” he remarked, “is a novelty right now - a political pet rock.”
Snow believes that Buchanan should drop out of the race after Super Tuesday.February 19 - 7:00 a.m. Thursday, February 20
- At midnight of Feb. 19, a student placed an envelope under the door of another student’s dorm room in
Cannon Dorm. Between the above times, that envelope, which contained prizes from the Student Health Options Committee, was removed from
the inside of the dorm room. The envelope contained 10 - $1 gift certificates from Carolina Cones, 2 - $25
gift certificates from The Backstreet Cafe, and 2 -

9:45 p.m. Wednesday, February 19 - 5:00 p.m. Thursday, February 20. Between the above times, some person(s) entered the unlocked
Kappa Sigma fraternity house and removed a “Busch” light fixture from its hook above the pool table. The fixture is
valued at $175.

9:00 p.m. Friday, February 21 - 1:00 p.m. Saturday, February 22. Between the above times, some person broke off the
wing of a bird hood ornament on a student’s car parked at the Smith House. The damage is estimated at
$30.

9:30 a.m. Friday, February 21 - 9:00 a.m. Monday, February 24. Between the above times, some person carried/rode away a
student’s bike from the bike rack on the south side of Chambers Building. The bike, which was left unsecured, is
valued at $400.

Make it on time. Check us out!: Student-Run AA and Adult Children of Alcoholics Meeting Every Wednesday at 8:00 Second
Floor Davidson College Presbyterian Church. These meetings are confidential meetings for anyone who has been, or is being, affected by
alcoholism, addictive behavior, or who has been a member of a dysfunctional family (one that has suffered a divorce or
any other kind of disruption). If any of this applies to you, or even if you are just wondering whether
or not you should go, you could probably use the meeting. You are not alone. Please think about it. You
make no commitment by attending and you can leave at any time. Come and learn. You won't regret it. Don't
hesitate to come late if you can't make it on time. All are welcome!

At the latest. Otherwise, he said, the press will “gut him” over problems in the past. If Buchanan persists, he
said, the Bush administration will seek to portray him as “the biggest right-wing fanatic since Hitler.” He talked favorably about
Dan Quayle, saying he is a smart, tough, and ambitious man that simply has trouble in front of the camera.
He reported that both Quayle and Bush receive coaching in speaking postures. Snow spoke about the campaign, and what we,
as viewers, can expect. He expressed concern over the fact that politicians tend to talk down to blacks because there
are so many problems in lower-income black communities. He maintained that not only were the “Willie Horton” commercials of ’88
not a racial ploy, but that they were also not even a tactic used by President Bush’s campaign staff. An
independent group, without the approval of the President, forwarded those ads. Snow does not anticipate a “Willie Horton” this year,
and he objects to this kind of mud-slinging “lowest common denominator” politics. “Any Presidential election is as much a referendum
on character as it is on issues,” he said.

Snow concluded by giving some important tips on being a journalist. He advised those who want to be journalists not
to major in journalism, but instead to major in philosophy, psychology, political science, or anything else that gets you to
think a lot (Snow was a philosophy major). “Ideas matter, and what you study at Davidson matters,” he said.
