The Davisphonian

VOLUME LXXXIII FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1992 NUMBER 90210

Honor Council Boots Harassing Punk; Feeling of Community Wholly Restored!

By H. J. Heinz

The Davidson Honor Council met last Thursday evening in Phi Hall to hear a case involving a Code of Responsibility
violation. Joe Schmozowsky, the defendant, was charged with a violation of the newly and quickly installed Section IV of the
Code of Responsibility. Specifically, he was accused of threatening and/or insulting another student in the hallways of the Chambers Building.

The trial began at 6:00 p.m. and lasted until 2:30 a.m. on Friday morning. Schmozowsky was represented by John Holmes
and Jim Beam. He was prosecuted by John Patton and Mimi Plauché. The Court consisted of the same people as
the last seven cases and was steered by John Howell, chairman. Matt Bumstead, the secretary, worked the tape recorder.

When asked how he pleaded to the charge, the defendant responded, “Guilty, I guess.”

The first witness the defense called to the stand was Bharat Krishnamurthy. Bharat testified that during the day of April
4 at approximately 11:10 a.m., Schmozowsky was walking down the stairs in the Union side of Chambers. Bharat was immediately
behind Schmozowsky. There was, according to Bharat, an obstruction of some sort on the stairs in front of Schmozowsky, and
Joe responded to this obstruction by complaining to the person responsible for the obstruction and walking around the obstruction/person.

The next witness the defense called was Edwin Edwards, a “close friend” of the defendant. Edwards testified that Joe was
a “gentle, sensitive guy, always very friendly, and held the deepest understanding for persons different than himself” (Schmozowsky). The defense
then rested.

After a fifteen-minute collusion, the Honor Council reconvened. The prosecution opened their case against the defendant by reading the statement
for which Schmozowsky is accused of making. “Move it, lard ass,” he allegedly said to A. Hugh Jass in the
halls of Chambers on April 14, at approximately 11:10 a.m.

Honey, Break out the Tear Gas!

With an air of lethargy only Davidson could elicit, a few whiny hippies and some skirt stand around with signs.
Backdraft it ain't.

Doobage at Davidson? Not a Problem--Mon!

By Bud Tokeaton

It was a sunny and happy Saturday at the Baccalaureate service when President John Kuykendall reflected upon the year with
a smile. “How do you describe a change in consciousness?” he asked. Then, closing the good book, Kuykendall looked past
the rows of black robes out at the parents and guests who were straining to hear, for they were high
as bats. “But creativity has increased too, and even better, violence has decreased. That’s right, date rape, senseless vandalism, brawls
over spilt beers have decreased,” he roared at this crowd."Their ears and 'Suck on this fatty,' said the Dean. '...
almost sweating on extinct!'

Davidson to Update CHAL System: The Damn Thing 'll Be Able to Talk!
By Freelove Upthumpa

Leland Park, director of the E.H. Little Library at Davidson College, unveiled the prototype for a new computer system which
will update the Computerized Help At Little (CHAL) system currently in place. The improved computers will each include a voice
synthesizer, and the entire system will be known as the CHAL 9000. The idea stems from the film “2001: A
Space Odyssey,” which depicts a spaceship equipped with a HAL 9000 talking computer system. In the film, the HAL 9000
is an extremely advanced machine which, at times, seems quite human. The new CHAL 9000 is part of Davidson’s continuing
salute to Professor Emeritus and College Archivist Chalmers Davidson, who, according to college officials, also seems quite human.

The new computers are designed to proffer a bit of Professor Davidson’s personality. At Wednesday’s demonstration, when Park inquired after
books about Gender Studies, the computer muttered angrily and then listed works by Phyllis Schlafly and Robert Bly. When asked
for titles referring to the antebellum South, the computer graciously offered to note the books’ location in the library, briefly
reviewed the content of each, and even threw in a few friendly anecdotes about “them good old days.” The demonstration
had to be ended after a student asked the CHAL 9000 for books about the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. The
crowd stood aghast as the computer...

And he said, “You know, the first time many people get stoned they think nothing’s happened—I guess they expect that
the walls should turn purple. As for me, I saw newly, yet saw nothing new. I was aware of what
was always there, but had been held from my awareness: the subtle echoes of the room’s acoustics, the quick confusion
of thoughts and feelings flashing through my mind. Laughter welled within me. And I became aware of my awareness! I
see these days."

“Man,” the President continued, “I don’t think any of us ever could have guessed that legalizing... They may say this
campus is a bit dumber, more dumb, whatever, but it’s a hell of a lot smarter too. You parents out
there should be proud. Proud of supporting your children during such a time of change! Proud of your seniors, because
if it wasn’t for this class and their countless smoke-ins while the trustees met, none of this could have been
possible. We have set a kind precedent for other colleges to follow!”

The president then acknowledged that the administration is still concerned with the possibility of the abuse of one drug being
replaced by the abuse of another. See "Stone Me!" on page 4.

NEWS:
Davidson police called in to handle Los Angeles riots: See page 5.
Gill Holland replaced by Amiri Baraka. See page 29.
What About Bob? See the Back End Interview, page 6.

DAVIDSON ARTS:
Percy splits the Dew! See page 6.
Bumrush goes hard core! See page 6.

SPORTS:
Baseball team indicted on game-fixing charges. See a good lawyer."
