Che Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIV TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

New Alcohol Policy Causes Confusion on Court

By Tom Koonce and Sean Lind

“Nobody ever thought this was going to be easy,” said Dean Will Terry in response to the problems caused by the new alcohol policy in just its first few weeks of implementation. During the first full weekend on Patterson Court, twenty-six students received alcohol violations. The widely-held belief that 150 people had been given citations was simply an exaggerated rumor. Only sixteen of the students who received citations will appear before the Alcohol Enforcement Committee (AEC) for disciplinary action.

As with any new system, there has been some confusion. Dean Terry said, “We are trying to heed the editorial of The Davidsonian and are trying to get the kinks out as quickly as we can.” Rick Moore, Assistant Director of Public Safety, admitted the implementation of the policy has been difficult and at times confusing. A problem last weekend was that many police officers were enforcing some of the rules of the old alcohol policy, such as not allowing public consumption of alcohol outside of the court houses.

Originally, it was thought that the “court” meant only the fraternity houses and porches. Now, however, the definition has been expanded to include the houses, sidewalks, and the entire lawn of Patterson Court. In addition to alcohol monitors and campus police, the college has hired thirty part-time officers from the Davidson, Huntersville, and Cornelius Police Departments to help enforce the new policy. These officers will be responsible for checking IDs and writing up violations.

The police officers at the parties work for the Residence Life Office. Although they might be officers from various communities around Davidson, they will issue Davidson citations that the AEC will handle. The policeman will only issue a state citation if students become abusive or uncooperative. There has also been some confusion as to whether or not freshmen can attend ‘wet’ parties between September 5th and October.

See "Confusion" on page 4

College Considers On-Campus Postal Facility

By Sean Lind

A proposal has been submitted by the Davidson Post Office to the Davidson College Office of Business and Finance for the creation of a new on-campus “contract post office.” The plan’s objectives are as follows:

“To provide on-campus delivery and retail services. To accommodate future growth in present facility. To provide earlier, more efficient post office box delivery. To provide earlier, more efficient rural delivery. To provide faster, more efficient window services. To generate additional revenue.”

According to the proposal, the new facility’s advantages will be manifold. First, the College will be subsidized by the Post Office to operate the on-campus site. The College will own the boxes and will be able to correspond with students without charge. Local advertising rates and rates for merchants’ correspondence will be determined by the college and local merchants. All services offered at the town post office will also be available at the proposed college facility.

The rumor on campus has been that the students were going to be “kicked out” of the town post office. Student vandalism and littering were believed to be the reasons for the post office’s move. Dean of Students Will Terry

See "Post Office" on page 5

Menkhaus Aids the United Nations in Efforts to Resolve Somali Conflict

By Walter Price

Ken Menkhaus, assistant professor of political science at Davidson, was invited by representatives of the Somali government to travel to Sweden August 21-23 to aid in attempts to bring an end to the conflict that presently ravages the East African country of Somalia. Menkhaus was one of a group ofHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Experts asked by Ambassador Mohamed Sahnoun, special representative of the Secretary General of Somalia, to attend the United Nations conference to discuss the Somali crisis. The group met in order to discuss the problems facing the country and develop a plan of action for the U.N. According to Menkhaus, the situation is one of “complete anarchy” since the January 1991 fall of the Somali government. As a result of the government instability, the conditions were “ripe” for a famine that Menkhaus described as “worse than that in Ethiopia in 1985.” “The U.N. has never been faced with a situation like this one in Somalia. It is fundamentally different. The U.N. is premised on the assumption that there is a government to deal with, but this isn’t the case in Somalia. Generally, the U.N.’s role is to ensure and respect the sovereignty of a nation while lending aid, but this isn’t the scenario,” Menkhaus said.

See "Somalia" on page 4

Spencer House Reluctantly Closes Doors
By Christopher Edwards

Many members of the Davidson community were surprised by the recent decision to close Spencer House at the beginning of this semester. Its closing leaves Warner Hall, Rusk, and Connor as the three remaining women’s eating houses on Patterson Court. Spencer was founded seven years ago as the third women’s eating house on Patterson Court. Successful for many years, Dean Will Terry said the house’s closing “had been coming on for [the past] year.” The opening of Connor House and the high number of Spencer members on JYA for the 1992-93 school year resulted in low membership levels and resulting financial difficulties for the eating house. Davidson College administrators actually began discussing the house’s problems last fall. In a letter published in the August 31 Davidsonian, former Spencer House President Zama Neff stated that the women of Spencer were “saddened to realize” the situation.

See "Spencer" on page 5

NUMBER 2

Participants in Davidson's Big Sister/Little Sister Program enjoy an afternoon outing. The group is having an organizational meeting Tuesday, September 8 in the Morrison Room at 7 PM.

Mary Beaty, Retired Davidson Librarian, Dies
By Tom Koonce

Mary Davis Beaty, retired reference coordinator and assistant director of the Davidson College library, died Tuesday, September 1, following a long illness with cancer. Beaty served in her position at the library for 19 years before retiring at the end of the 1991-92 school year. She also was the chronicler of Davidson college and town history for over 20 years. Beaty was an invaluable resource at the E.H. Little Library as she was known for her caring attitude and patience with students. In a resolution passed by the faculty upon Beaty’s retirement in May, Library Director Leland Park said, “Perhaps no one short of the person who gathered the first group of books to form a library at Davidson in 1837 has known the library collection as thoroughly as does she.” Beaty always gave her full and undivided attention to every student who needed assistance with research and even those who just needed help getting acquainted with the library. Born in nearby Mooresville on June 21, 1935, she was the daughter of the late Professor E.A. Beaty and Margaret Clark Beaty. Her father was a 1920 Davidson graduate and taught Latin and Greek at the college. Beaty attended Agnes Scott.

See "Beaty" on page 3

INSIDE
NEWS: New Dean of Admissions Brings Applicable Experiences to Davidson. See page 2.
Clinton Campaigns in Piedmont. See page 3.

OPINIONS: Deep Thoughts By Kirby. See page 7.
Platform Views on Abortion. See page 7.

SPORTS: A Guide To Rugby. See page 12

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

---