8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992

Modest Stillness and Humility

Good, Clean, Mindless Fun

While the less adventurous of Davidson’s student body quietly consumed their evening meal last Thursday, a proud, distinct, and, well,
quite stupid few took to arms in order to contest supremacy on Patterson Court. In the midst of the frenzied
proceedings stood one particularly obnoxious youth. He was clad, de rigueur, in a T-shirt and jeans, as he yelled many
and varied insults at what seemed the very top of his lungs. Backed by his pledge-pinned cadre, the offending upperclassman
had few if any reservations about loudly reminding his opponents of their marked inadequacies. When he eventually turned up enmeshed
in a gaggle of fist-swinging goats, many were seen hanging low their swaying heads and commenting to each other about
those three sisters who will let no fool escape.

I’m still not sure what came over me before I got my ass kicked, but damn if it wasn’t a
rush. I do so hate to admit it, but I absolutely love those asinine egg fights. How they spruce up
a spring afternoon. The challenge usually begins with a direct charge from one or the other of the two rival
fraternities on the court. Not much planning or strategy here, just an all-out show of testosterone and stupidity. Within seconds,
both houses are massed on the opposite banks of the Patterson Court valley, hurling whatever comes to hand at the
opposing throng. “Careful you don’t miss now,” I yell, “you won’t get another shot until July of ‘94!” Eggs zing
and I wince... “When’s the next party?” as yolk splatters on my chest. (Although good for absolutely nothing else, the
select committee’s unsolicited and unfounded “recommendations” make great taunting tools.)

Ah, the thrill of battle. My judgment having taken a holiday for the remainder of the afternoon, I decided to
chase a friend of mine back towards his own house after he had authoritatively tagged me with some would-be poultry.
About two-thirds of the way up the hill, a certain little voice sprang up: “Hey there big fellah, don’t ya
think this here’s just a wee bit foolish?” As I agreed and prepared to turn away, face hit ground, and
all became a blur. Always preferring the fantasy world in which I reside to reality, I arose from the fray
with my arms held high, as if I were the victor outright. “Hod-killer, slayer of goats am I” did I
chant, until several of my own fraternity brothers told me to kindly consider shutting the hell up.

No! I am not a Phi Delt, nor was meant to be; Am an attendant mouth, one that will do
To annoy a goat, piss off a hod or two.

The best part of the fight, though, doesn’t come until everyone has run out of things to throw. That’s when
we all stand on our respective hills and call each other the p-word for forty-five minutes. College! I would suspect
that at just about this point in the article, Bobby C. Williams and the select committee crew are thinking to
themselves, “A-ha! Case in point! Finally, an actual incident to which we can refer in our next report!” It seems
kinda vicious on the surface, now don’t it? However much I hate to ruin your favorite pastime of only taking
one side of the story, I feel compelled to let you know what happens after these grocery wars: nothing. You
see, even though the houses on the court get a bit wild every once in a while, none of us
take it too seriously. In fact, less than an hour after Thursday’s skirmish, I was laughing about the event with

Lindsey Continued from page 8

enness remains strong. Too many people act as if fun and alcohol are inherently connected. Having a blast without getting
rocked is indeed possible; we all know this intellectually, but do not always act on it. A dry campus is
not the answer, for nothing could contribute more to the appeal of the forbidden fruit and to the desire to
drink off campus, thus risking our lives and those of others on the streets. We simply must learn to control
our use of alcohol; its abuse contributes to thoughtless words and horrifying actions. Members of the administration and faculty have
expressed concerns similar to those I have listed, and consequently some students think the administration wants to force puritanical morality
onto students. I do not believe this is a correct interpretation of the administration’s aims. The trustees and employees of
Davidson want what is best for the students, yet their ideas of what will benefit us may differ from our
own conceptions of what is best for the student body. We must demonstrate that we are adult enough to make
responsible decisions and act accordingly, as a community, stop pointing fingers and being defensive, and address the main issue; insensitivity,
harassment, and assault have no place at Davidson College.

Julianna Lindsey Class of '92

Adams Continued from page 7

based on hearsay, and some of their recommendations might not reflect the wishes of most Davidson students, but by simply
attacking the Select Committee we neglect to emphasize the importance of learning from this turbulent time and forgiving one another.
Only when all is revealed and forgiven can we truly call ourselves a compassionate community.

Sam Adams Class of ‘93the very same goat who had tackled me into the mud. At Warner Hall that night,
even the most intense warriors of the day were having a great time with their afternoon enemies. A good time
was had by all; oh, the clock is a tickin’.

Louria Continued, from page 8

judgement. I am not saying that everyone who finds fault with the fraternity system should come down to a party,
but it is their responsibility to possess an informed opinion before they condemn the fraternity system. This understanding can be
achieved through participation in court activities, attending a meal at one of the houses, or simply entering into a dialogue
with the members of a house. Regardless of the means, it is clear more interaction needs to take place between
faculty and Patterson Court in order to promote a lucid, accurate understanding of Davidson’s social environment.

Sincerely,
Myles Louria
Class of '94

to write a new poem. The rhyme and meter would be thrown all out of whack and no self-respecting seventeenth-century
nymph would buy that for a second. “Elizabeth’s Going A-Maying?” Perish the thought.) Let us examine some particular tacks Mr.
Herrick takes in convincing Corinna to throw fate to the wind and really go a-maying. He begins with outright commands:
“Get up! get up for shame! the blooming morn / Upon her wings presents the god unshorn.” [Note to female
readers: would you appreciate or tolerate this kind of authoritarian you’re-my-babe crap as an opening line? If so, get thee
to the Davidsonian editorial offices as SOON as possible.] Bumstead Continued from page 8

David D. Smyth: Artifice in Wooing: Herrick Plays Hard

Editor’s note: This piece was largely composed on December 10, 1991. The calendar-wise among you will note that this was
one short day before the mighty scheduled examination for English 495. What was our hero thinking while the mother of
all undergraduate literature exams lurked around the corner? Was he thinking? Well, probably not, but please humor our boy and
continue reading.

He goes on to say, “Wash, dress, be brief in praying: / Few beads are best when once we go
a-Maying.” What do you suppose Herrick has in mind here? Sex, methinks. Will Corinna be strong and remember her Southern
Baptist upbringing? Can she possibly resist the poetic charms of Suave Bob? Oh, dear reader, do not abandon us now.
Continue, I prithee. “There’s not a budding boy or girl this day / But is got up to bring in
May; /...Many a green-gown has been given, / Many a kiss, both odd and even.” How fare our two heroes?
Bob is presenting his case pretty well, and the title seems to indicate where the whole scenario might end up.
Corinna’s probably going to get that green gown pretty soon, but from nothing so benign as a rugby game or
some such sporting mirth. Score one for the Bobster, frat boy!

“To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time” takes another approach and lets Herrick urge a wholesale abandonment of all
sexual mores. This scheme might similarly assume that if a high-powered rifle cannot bag the prey, then a shotgun would
suit much better.

Poets and others throughout history and prehistory have pursued women incessantly by as many different means as possible. The English
Romantic poet Robert Herrick tried poetry with mixed success. Some women were positively snowed by his urgent implorations; others saw
right through the sordid game. Bob used the carpe diem theme with “Corinna’s Going A-Maying” in 1648, a particularly daring
effort since the focus was necessarily on one fair maiden, Corinna. (No, these poems are not one-size-fits-all, dear readers. It
would not be as simple as changing Corinna’s name to target another object of his fancy. If an Elizabeth happened
by he would simply have to write a new poem. The rhyme and meter would be thrown all out of
whack and no self-respecting seventeenth-century nymph would buy that for a second. “Elizabeth’s Going A-Maying?” Perish the thought.) Let us
examine some particular tacks Mr. Herrick takes in convincing Corinna to throw fate to the wind and really go a-maying.
He begins with outright commands: “Get up! get up for shame! the blooming morn / Upon her wings presents the
god unshorn.” [Note to female readers: would you appreciate or tolerate this kind of authoritarian you’re-my-babe crap as an opening
line? If so, get thee to the Davidsonian editorial offices as SOON as possible.] Bumstead Continued from page 8

Herrick opens appropriately with a blast: “Gather ye rosebuds while ye may, / Old time is still a-flying; / And
this same flower that smiles today, / Tomorrow will be dying.” Ah-hah! Make her feel like she’s missing something that
she won’t long enjoy because of her withering physical female frame. A sensitive poet, at last! This is hardly PC
but Bob likely had little use for such trivialities in his writing and wooing prime. The modern reader has to
admire old Bob for his unabashed honesty if nothing else. It’s spring; he’s horny and out to deflower and makes
no bones about it. Some of us should do so well. Fire your charms where you may, Bob. 344 years
later we swoon still.

purpose on this campus. Honor knows no limits; it has no boundaries. I regret that my first correspondence to you
as Chairman has to be one of this nature. I know that we are all dealing with difficult times on
this campus. More than ever before, we must look to our duties to this community and join together to strengthen
any frayed ties that exist. I am proud to be a member of this student body as we work to
rebuild the community, stronger than it has ever been. I thank you for your cooperation, and I will stay in
touch with you in a concentrated effort to keep you increasingly involved in the Honor System.

Matt Bumstead
Honor Council Chairman, 1992-93
