10

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

Soccer

Continued from page 12

shot that was saved by the UNCC keeper. And that’s how it went. The ‘Cats applied pressure literally until the final buzzer, but could not score. Davidson outshot UNCC 17-9.

Starters Ben Hayes, Preston Yarborough, and Phelps Sprinkle all missed the game, and Slagle allowed that the team, though deep, was hurt by their absence. “Losing three at the same position was tough,” he said. Slagle was pleased with his team’s second-half fervor, but felt that coming back from a pair of two-goal deficits was a lot to ask. “We kept coming back, and I thought that the kids kept battling, kept working. But it’s tough to come back from two goals,” he said.

The loss to UNCC gave Friday’s game at Appalachian State a must-win quality. Two seasons ago, the Wildcats earned their first national ranking with a win over Duke, but lost consecutively to Appalachian State and UNCC, and the national polls never forgave them. Games at App State are made more difficult by the severely crowned artificial turf surface that is the Mountaineers’ home field. In part because of the surface, Davidson had considerable trouble controlling the ball throughout the field, but a late goal by Zack Eastman allowed the team to escape with a 3-2 win.

The Mountaineers were the aggressors throughout a first half that ended in a 1-1 tie. Davidson scored first 15 minutes before halftime. The ball was sent into the middle of the field 18 yards out on a free kick, and Ed Denning controlled it and nudged it to his left. John Sampers took the ball off one bounce and placed it in the bottom right corner with a left-footed shot. ASU tied the game with 6:50 to go on a header off a corner kick.

The Wildcats took the offensive to open the second half, and quickly cashed in a goal to culminate several minutes of sustained pressure. Hayes beat his man on the right side, dribbled the ball up the end line, and crossed to Castelloe, who headed the ball in for a 2-1 lead.

App State tied the game with the kind of quick counterattack that UNCC used so well. With less than 30 minutes to play, a long ball was sent to an offside Mountaineer forward about 25 yards out. When the linesman missed the call, the Davidson defense was out of position. Deegan came out to smother the angle, but the ASU player chipped the ball neatly over his head and into the goal.

At 86:15, the ‘Cats got the game-winner. Ukrop began the play, as he so often does, by trapping a pass with his chest with his back to the goal. Working about 25 yards out, he volleyed the ball over his head to the right of the goal. Eastman ran down the wing to claim it about 10 yards out, and blasted a right-footed shot past the keeper. The Mountaineers had a pair of very good scoring chances before time expired, but couldn’t convert them.

Slagle recognized that the artificial surface intensified App State’s advantage in speed. “It’s very tough to practice for astroturf. It’s a big home-field advantage,” he said. “I think we always feel lucky to get out of Appalachian with a win.” Defender Matt Spear agreed that the turf changed the nature of the match. “It just made the game ugly,” he said. “But we’ll take an ugly win.”

The team has more than a week off before meeting the Citadel at home next Saturday (2:00 p.m.).

Cross-Country

Continued from page 12

place finish out of thirty starting teams. Senior Ian Stewart continued his excellent season, running 11th in a time of 27:56. Behind him was training partner David Kerns, finishing a respectable 25th with a time of 28:23. But the best race of all was between junior Richard Wharton and sophomore Erik McMichael. The two jockeyed for positions all along the course, pushing each other and passing other runners until the very end, when McMichael found an extra gear and finished third on the team, with Wharton right behind him. Fifth on the team was Pete Hurtado, who ended the race with a still-respectable time of 29:46.

Both runners and coaches hope that they can take the overwhelming momentum from the Hunter College meet into the second half of the season, which begins October 17th at Duke.

Women's Soccer

Continued from page 12

outside the 18-yard box.

Davidson coach Kevin Hundley, reflecting on the week of games, felt that his team is right where it ought to be with a 5-2 record. “After these past three games, we finally played today on a level which stretched the potential of our opponents and it paid off,” he remarked. “I feel bad to kick Erskine when they’re having a rough season, but there was not a single goal today that we did not earn or a moment in which we did not play hard.”

The rest of the teams on the Wildcats’ schedule are Division I schools. The team meets Radford and High Point on the road this week, then returns home Sunday to take on Mercer.

MONDAY-SATURDAY

NAIL BOUTIQUE

New Set of Nails $35.00 (with Student ID.)

ONE DOOR DOWN FROM THE SODA SHOP

106 S. Main Street Davidson, NC 28036

892-7030

Sculptured Nails, Overlays, French Nail Tips, Manicures, Pedicures