THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

By Tony Tuntasit

I was standing in a bookstore in Thailand, perusing through a magazine trying to look “cool,” when I was stunned
by a very attractive female who was also perusing through a magazine trying her best to look “cool,” as well.
She was so “cool” that I relieved myself of all inhibitions and attempted to whisk her off her feet with
a spontaneous, insightful, and really “cool” ... pick-up line.

For a little background, my experience with “pick-up lines” has never been quite, well, successful. I have never been able
to execute “pick-up lines” with a straight face. For example, the Ricardo Montalban/James Bond type suaveness that you’re supposed to
have when you say “Baby, your ...” shall I say, “cool business” usually becomes some Gilligan-like saying, such as, “Baby,
do you know that sugar is the main export of Western Tanzania?”

So I approached her with charm, class, and a pocket full of (Kryptonite) Fruity Mint Certs and tried to think
of anything to say. Enlightened by a novel, ingenious, and solitary “pick-up line,” I approached her and was supposed to
say: “Oh, I see you’re reading (name of magazine)” or something equally captivating. However, something was lost in the translation
and in the course of my picking up, I said (in Thai, of course), “Oh, I see you read.”

After seconds of intense silence, I suddenly realized my apocalyptic error. Instead of the “cool” pick-up line I was supposed
to deliver, I made a pseudo-social commentary on literacy. Thus, I strolled, meandered, OK, I flat out ran to the
comforts of my friends who seemed to consider the event quite funny, hilarious, and worthy of hourly recollection.

Pick-up lines at Davidson seem to be more creative, mind you. When bored, I suggest trying the following lines to
introduce yourself to the diversity here at Davidson, the Princeton of the South.

1. Hi, where are you from? (Very simple, concise but boring.) Try this, instead.
2. Hey, those 12-pound books you’re carrying for Humes really build BIG biceps.
3. Can I treat you to dinner at the Student Union? I have 100 bonus bucks on my CAT card.
4. Is that what your S.A.T. score was? I nearly doubled it!
5. You know the wrinkles under your eyes from the six hours of Philosophy reading really give you that Marlon
Brando look!

If all else fails, try this:
6. Hi! I’m cool, I drink beer.

A major cause for celebration among Davidson Freshmen is remembering somebody’s name. Usually, there is a round of high fives,
cheers, and butt slapping when a name correctly leaves the realm of the collective subconscious, follows some neural synapse, and
is uttered out of the oral cavity. (The oral cavity is your mouth, for all you non-Davidsonites reading this.)

Names and faces are hurled at you at astonishing rates. There are names you try to avoid, faces that leave
residual images on your corneas, and people who you'd give anything to remember. However, I leave you with a final
thought... The name game can really backfire if not handled with care. I recall the following instance which really did
happen at the Union Store.

Him: Hey! You’re from Zionsville, Indiana, right?
Her: Yeah!
Him: You’ve got the 8:30 Calculus Class with Smith, the 12:30 Advanced Polyscience Lab, and Anthropology 188, right?
Her: Yeah!
Him: It’s Natasha, right?
Her: It’s Joan!

Honestly, good luck.

Left Continued from page 9

SMUD is also investing in new technologies to create a diverse power base. While renewable power has its disadvantages for
landlocked, river-free, windless, constantly dark parts of the country, the rest of the nation can enjoy considerable gains without a
loss in our standard of living. By reducing our reliance on foreign oil and uranium deposits, we’ll actually become stronger
and more independent of the whims of the international marketplace. We won’t have to drill in the Alaskan National Wildlife
Refuge, either. Sorry, George.

Sources: U.S. News and World Report 9/1/92; New York Times 9/11/92

Contact Frampton About Your Opinions -6200

Deep Thoughts: Kirby Shealy

Coles' Lecture Brings Memories

Dr. Robert Coles’s lecture last Thursday evening reminded me of a lesson taught to me by my high school Chemistry
teacher. Francis Broadway was this man’s name, and he had a unique approach to his discipline. For example, in addition
to the usual lab work and problem-solving common to most secondary school Chemistry curricula, Broadway, who happened to be a
behemoth of a person, assigned us to write a short story. The only stipulation he attached to this most unusual
Chemistry exercise was that the short story had to use the Law of the Conservation of Energy as its theme.

As if creative writing weren’t odd enough for a science class, Broadway, who had become the object of much ridicule
by this point in the year, next told us to draw a picture that we thought represented the poem “Jabberwocky”
by Lewis Carroll. You can imagine our response. By the end of the term, my entire class thought Francis Broadway
could have done us all a favor by retiring and spending the rest of his life counting the raisins in
his fruit salad at one of those “special” hospitals. Now I regard him as one of the finest teachers I
ever had.

Broadway’s lesson was simple: don’t take any of this Chemistry stuff at face value—someone might come along one day and
figure out that our whole way of looking at the science is wrong. This idea is not so far-fetched. Consider
the fact that you have never really seen an atom (unless they’re doing things in Dana I don’t know about).
Have you ever held a polypeptide in your hand and perused its intricate surface with your naked eyes? We really
don’t know what they look like—we’ve just come up with an entire modeling system to explain why they behave the
way they do. So far, this system...has been able to explain the way we perceive atoms and molecules to behave.
But you never know what we might discover tomorrow... Broadway’s lesson applies equally well to all of academia. I think
he would agree with me that we should take all of the facts we are learning here with a measure
of skepticism, for who knows how next week’s revelation may change our entire perspective on history, art, philosophy, or science.
Thus, as Dr. Coles implied Thursday, it is not what we know or even how much we know that is
ultimately important. The really valuable thing that this school would like to teach us (and that we should earnestly attempt
to learn) is the ability to think and to make the kind of moral decisions that make us good people
and the world we affect better for our having been a part of it.

College Scapegoated Fraternity
By Bryan Allison

Under the cloak of darkness (better known as summer vacation), the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity was dealt a crushing blow—a
year-long suspension from Patterson Court. Now while I am not personally an SAE, I do consider myself to be friends
with some of them. That is the purpose for my commentary. I feel the punishment instigated was too harsh. What
really irks me is the fact that the school waited until after we were gone to announce the suspension. In
my mind’s eye, I picture a sort of demented scene from The Wizard of Oz during that June trustees’ meeting.
I can see certain deans who wrote certain biased slander last year dancing around singing, “Ding dong the hods are
dead! The wicked hods are dead!”

Now why do I feel the punishment was too harsh? First, they had already received their punishment by Dean Terry,
who at the time said that the suggested two-year sabbatical certain parties proposed would slowly kill the fraternity. And a
one-year suspension doesn’t have a similar effect? The reason for the added punishment was disclosed as a pledge activity in
late April. I assume this “pledge activity” is the traditional Milk of Minerva trial that all SAEs everywhere experience. Was
this truly the “final straw” that necessitated this more extreme punishment? I may be naive, but I lived on a
hall with six SAE pledges last year, and I do not recall hearing about this event in late April nor
do I remember anything out of the norm. True it happened, but obviously it was quite discreet. Just how hard
were they looking? It seems to me that unless I was completely out of it, the school had to be
looking pretty darn hard for them to discover this event. Seems kinda like a personal vendetta, doesn’t it?

In a letter to the editor I wrote last year, I implied that the school was blaming the majority of
its problems on the SAEs as made evident by the Select Committee’s Report on Campus Intolerance. It might as well
have been titled Davidson Good; SAE Bad. I propose that some of these gentlemen take a road trip to any
one of many campuses in the area. I suggest they take a look at the fraternities there and the pledging
activities that go on there. I myself grew up in Texas amidst the pledge horror stories that seemed to go
on every year at the University of Texas—from guys getting branded to guys getting locked in car trunks filled with
beer or hard liquor and not allowed to get out until they had finished. There seemed to be at least
one or two pledge-related deaths every year. My parents were not too excited at first about me joining a fraternity
until I was able to dispel the myth that fraternities were nothing but a bunch of beer-guzzling, skirt-chasing neanderthals.

The “unrest” that the SAEs are guilty of here pales in comparison to what I have heard about from my
friends from high school. Let me qualify this statement. I am not justifying some of the events that happened here
last year. Nor am I saying that Davidson is anything like a State U. I do think we are different
here in a lot of ways from the typical college—we should strive onward in pursuing what sets us apart. My
point is that a lot of people on this campus need to lighten up. Anal retentiveness is at an all-time
high right now. The handling of this problem is a microcosm for what is currently wrong with Davidson.

After watching that humorous anti-SAE “demonstration” that transpired in front of the Commons last year, my roommate and I joked
that we should get U2 to come play a benefit concert. I mean, they played benefits...

See "SAE" on page 9

SuperFramp
Continued from page 9

The girl sees “the cheese” coming, but like Indians running bulls off a cliff (what?), the pursuer backs her into
a corner, and wets his finger. He then rubs that wet finger along the arm of the poor victim. Then
the line, “Let’s get you out of those wet clothes.”

The third type of guy, and really the scariest is “the buttslapper.” Every guy knows this one, though, only a
few girls know him. (He last hooked up.) Of course, he plays some manly sport like football or rugby or
table tennis. He also listens to country music, thinks you really spell fantastik like that, and loves hunting. Given, he
hangs out at the Pub, shoots pool and absolutely loves Budweiser. In fact, his entire life is one giant Bud
commercial. He wears a BUD hat, has BUD posters with sexy women on his wall, and memorized the entire BUD
can. (Why the hell is BUD in capitals? Because this article is sinking into the fourth pit of hell.) Oh,
and he’s called “the buttslapper” because he loves to land a good square pat on every male bum he passes,
which means he probably hasn’t gotten any play because he hasn’t come out of the closet.

Alright, last guy, and then you can get off the toilet. Basically, it’s the rest of us boring schmucks who
don’t have any personality at all. So there! See ya.
