THE DAVIDSONIAN ELECTION ‘92 MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

Smith Continued from page 5

Smith: First of all, I don’t feel I’d have a problem with any of the three candidates running. I know all of them very well and I’ve worked extensively with two of them. I think that there’s a delicate balance and the Vice-President needs to support the President but also really needs to challenge the President in a lot of ways. I think the Vice-President ought to do that on a confidential basis with the President and then they should get together, exchange views and then put them together in the Senate meeting.

Davidsonian: The new black fraternity on campus is all but a reality. How do you think we should treat the BSC? Is it in danger of having its power or influence diminished?

Smith: Let me correct your question first. It’s not a “black” fraternity; it’s a historically black fraternity. I think that it’s a very positive step for Davidson. I don’t think that the BSC’s power will be diminished at all. I think the African-American students here need an alternative to the social life. There are a lot of frustrated African-Americans here. That was one important topic brought up at the racial tensions forum set up by Linsey Mills in the fall.

Davidsonian: What sort of concrete plans or ideas do you have for easing these racial tensions?

Smith: One is more work with freshman orientation. The present system of dealing with racial and ethnic differences is insufficient. One thing that CoMA is doing this week is we were going around talking to every freshman hall about racial tension. It’s going to be an open discussion group. That sort of thing, education, is really the answer. One of the real problems is that a lot of people don’t believe that racial tension exists on this campus. Our goal is to educate the college more about that.

Andrew Spainhour

My name is Andrew Spainhour, and I’m running for SGA Vice-President. Over the past few years, I’ve done a number of things at Davidson that in one way or another reflect my personality - I’ve served on a number of committees, written for this newspaper as well as previously having served on its editorial board, been a member of CCRL, and worked as a hall counselor. During my time here, I’ve followed the workings of the SGA with great interest, and each year, I’ve considered running. Last year, I chose, after much deliberation, to concentrate on being a good hall counselor. Now, I feel it is my time to make a bid for SGA.

The office of the Vice-President interests me the most, in that I feel that its responsibilities fit well with my talents and abilities. I consider myself to be approachable, responsible, and a good judge of character, traits which are crucial to the effective execution of this job, in which some 15 committees and committee chairs fall under the auspices of the Vice-Presidency. Additionally, I feel that I would, and could be an extremely valuable resource for the SGA President, as well as the entire Senate at large. I freely recognize that having never served on the Senate may be seen by some to be a difficulty. I disagree. I know well the workings of Davidson and my time on CCRL has taught me a great deal about student government and leadership. Perhaps most importantly, I want to do this job because I feel that SGA has the potential for achieving greatness in the coming year, and I'd like to be a part of it. There’s a lot to be done, and I feel that I have the vision, the willingness, the seriousness, and the sense of humor to help Davidson achieve its greatest potential.

Davidsonian: Earlier in the year, there was a great deal of discussion about the effectiveness of the Honor Council and its status on campus. Some see the fact that the Council functions both as judge and jury as detrimental. How do you respond?

Spainhour: It's a concern on the part of everyone. It may be perceived to be an elitist organization, and I am glad that the SGA has studied this. I fear that we may not have heard a great enough voice from the SGA, and it was perhaps passed on a little too quickly to the Student Conduct Council. I think there still needs to be some study, and I hope that the debate will continue.

Davidsonian: What exactly are the areas where the SGA has the most potential for growth and benefit?

Spainhour: I think that the SGA is a great voice to address the problems that we’ve had on this campus. All you have to do is pick up a newspaper, and you see that there is an amount of intolerance which is unacceptable. I think that the SGA can address this more than it has, and I find that to be the area of greatest potential, in that we make Davidson a less harsh and more tolerant place to be.

Davidsonian: Where have you really led the way around this school?

Spainhour: As a member of the CCRL and a Hall Counselor, I along with a few other students decided that something was happening within the Freshman class that was not acceptable. People were not being able to meet other freshmen, as they felt too greatly the pressures of rush. It was a concern of mine and it was a concern of these other Hall Counselors, and we led the way in changing the policy. We were the ones to tell Dean Terry that something had to be done. While I’m not sure that the exactly correct measures were taken, I along with a few others led the way in trying to make the life of Freshmen less stressful. In writing for the newspaper, I’ve tried to express a point of view and share it with others, and I’ve tried to lead that way.

Steven Summers

During my time as a student at Davidson College, I have been very active in the Student Government Association. My concentration in the SGA has been in student committees and councils set up for students to help in all areas of campus life. These committees and councils, with the help of students and faculty, allow the SGA to make firm recommendations to the Trustees. Because these committees have been hard-working and thorough, the Trustees have taken the recommendations very seriously. During the past three years, I have been a member of the Security and Public Safety Committee, theCampus Services Committee, and I am presently the Chairman of the Auxiliary Services Council. As Chairman of the Auxiliary Services Council, I have learned how financial decisions have been made by the Director of Auxiliary Services. By serving on these committees, I have learned what specific improvements are needed, and I have had the opportunity to make recommendations to the SGA. I have decided to run for SGA Vice-President because this position will enable me to further organize and improve the committees and councils which the SGA sponsors. I understand the purpose as well as the importance and significance of each of these committees. Also, I feel that I have the experience and background to organize and administrate these committees in a very successful manner. As Vice-President, I would also concentrate on working with the President of the SGA, students, faculty, administrators, and the Trustees. Because of my close relationship with these important groups, I feel that I will be able to make important changes to benefit our community.

Some issues which currently are very important include the Minus Grading System, Admissions, Security and Public Safety, Athletics, the Honor Council, and the Alcohol Policy. Although my opinion on the new minus grading system may be very similar to most people’s, I have a unique interest in pursuing the effects of the new system. I understand the complaints people remarked about the minus grading system, and their concerns are certainly valid. However, I do not think that we should throw the new grading system in the trash just yet. Of course, many students believe that the new system has hurt their GPA. While this may be true for some students, other students commented that the minus system was beneficial because it allowed them to get a B- rather than a C+. Under the new system, some professors have had greater flexibility in assessing a student’s performance. While I would take into consideration individual opinions, I feel that it is important to reexamine the grading system, and determine whether it creates advantages or disadvantages for students. I believe that the new system deserves a very serious review, and possibly some changes for improvement.

While the Admissions Office has made great improvements in the past several years, I feel that Davidson should enroll more International and African-American students. These students do not only provide a greater diversity of minds at Davidson, but they also contribute to the social diversity that is essential to Davidson’s success. I know that a greater effort to bring minority students to Davidson would enable our school to continue to enrich the learning environment which is so valued in our small college community.

Security and Public Safety is a growing part of our everyday life. Davidson has just recently confronted these concerns, and has made some improvements. The installation of the new call-boxes, the student escorts, and the employment of more Police Officers has improved security. I feel that the campus needs better lighting and the students need better protection. Because the crime rate has soared in Northern Mecklenburg County, Davidson needs to ensure that the students and the college community are as safe as possible. Ray Thrower, the Chief of Public Safety, and his staff have made great improvements over the past several years, and I would certainly support his ideas in order to make our community a safer place.

Although I am not a varsity athlete at Davidson, I feel that it is very important to address certain athletic issues. I support Terry Holland’s effort to place Davidson athletics in a position that benefits the College most. He needs student support as well as support from the faculty. Certainly, student-athletes provide a link between the high academic and athletic communities at Davidson. If strong support is given to the Athletic Program, and given especially to the student-athletes, I think Davidson will become a stronger institution.

One issue that the Honor Council has been asked to consider is a “jury-trial” format. While it is not certain that the Honor Council’s policy will change, I think it is important for Freshman Orientation to include a “Mock Trial.” I believe that the “mock trial” will help the Freshmen understand what the Honor Council does, and how important the process and policies are to Davidson.

There will always be drinking at every college and university regardless of its size or reputation as an academic institution. Although the Trustees and administration have proposed drastic changes in the Alcohol Policy, I do not think that the solution is to make Davidson a dry campus. A dry campus would bring about more drinking and driving accidents, and may even promote more irresponsible behavior. I feel that a compromise must be made between the students and the Trustees that will allow for the students to handle themselves responsibly, as well as avoiding alcohol infractions. It is so very important that this compromise be made, especially because it will ensure the safety of the students, as well as protect the Trustees and administration of Davidson College.

There is a tremendous opportunity for Davidson College to make some very important decisions in the next year. I feel that if I am elected as the SGA Vice-President, I will be of vital importance to the successful implementation of those decisions. I believe I am uniquely qualified to pursue the needs and concerns of the student body while maintaining a working, open relationship with the SGA President, SGA Senators, students, and the administration. Finally, I acknowledge that Davidson has provided opportunities for me that would have never been available at a larger school, and I believe that as the next SGA Vice-President, I would offer my experience, organization, and ideas to the Student Body.

Davidsonian: What other roles have you played on campus that might prepare you for the job of SGA Vice-President?

Summers: I'm the catering manager at the Commons, and that allows me to organize all of the functions there. I don’t really characterize that as an SGA trait, but I do in that it forces me to organize myself, and to be able to select good people for the jobs. I’m also the president of the choir, and I’m the head Resident Advisor. That job has allowed me to show a lot of leadership and let me interact with all types of students on campus, black, white, international, whatever.

See "Summers", next page