‘NEWS THE DAVIDSONIAN — MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

A student’s head and took the right set of keys from his pocket. The incident was reported to the Charlotte Police as it happened in a relatively low crime rate area of Charlotte.

Continued from page 1

As the students got out of the car, two males approached them from behind the building. The students said that the two men split up and went to either side of the car where they were standing. One student said, “You get that sinking feeling fast that something’s not right.” The female closed the door and said that the man who confronted her grabbed her arm and repeated over and over for her not to look at him. She said that he did not grab her roughly, but just held her by the arm. The other man confronted the male student and pulled a 9mm handgun on him. The man told the male student to get down on the ground face down. He then pinned the student down on his face, holding the gun at the back of his head. The suspect then proceeded to take the student’s wallet, watch, and one set of car keys.

The other man took the female student to the front of the car where she could see her friend pinned to the ground. One man handed her the car keys and told her to open the door to the car. The male student actually had two sets of car keys and the ones that she was using were the wrong ones. She told the man that they were the wrong keys. The other suspect still had the gun at the male who told her once again to open the door. Obviously nervous, she fumbled around and tried the wrong key saying to herself out loud, “This is the wrong key.” The unarmed man told her to take her time as she tried to open the door. She finally unlocked the door and the armed suspect got in the car on the driver’s side. He then asked her if she had any money and she told him no. Her wallet was sticking out from underneath her jacket, which she was holding, and the armed man grabbed it from her. He looked through the wallet and then threw it in the car. The other man then went around the back of the car and his armed partner let him in on the passenger side. The male student was still on the ground and the armed man told him, “Don’t move or I will kill you.” The men put the car in reverse and as they were backing out the armed man yelled to the male student, “Don’t move or I’ll kill your whore.”

After the men had left the area, the two students ran into the restaurant and called the police. They said that within a few minutes the police arrived and a little while later ten police cars also arrived to search for the stolen car. The students made statements to the police in the restaurant and received a ride back to the Davidson campus. The area where the two students were robbed was a well-lit parking lot beside the restaurant and within good view of Monroe Road and the restaurant. They said that as the incident occurred, unluckily, nobody left the restaurant and no cars drove down the road. The robbery occurred at 8:20 pm in the evening in this open lighted parking lot.

After the students returned to Davidson they were awakened in their rooms around...2:00 am Saturday morning by the Davidson police. The Davidson police told each of them that the stolen car had been involved in a homicide. They were driven to Charlotte by a Davidson College police officer and then the Charlotte police took them to Rock Hill, SC. They re-told their story to the Rock Hill police who related to the students that they had two suspects in custody. The two students identified both men in a photo line-up and gave statements once again. They were then taken back to Davidson and did not arrive back on campus until 5:30 am. The female student's wallet was later found on a Charlotte street. The two suspects were charged with the Rock Hill shooting. According to The Charlotte Observer, state prosecutors have already said that they plan to seek the death penalty for them. The Davidson students are expected to testify at the trial.

The class of 1994’s new members are Suneya Gupta, Andrew John Haile, William Loomis Pomeroy, Karen Ann Marshall, and Alden Hitchcock Smith. Ben Klein presented the Thomas Jefferson Award to a faculty member who by personal influence, teaching, writing, and scholarship promotes the high ideals of Jefferson and who has given generously and well beyond the call of duty. This award is established by the Robert Earl McConnell Foundation. Lunsford Richardson King was the recipient of the Thomas Jefferson Award this year.

Fall Discover Davidson To Be Held Sunday, October 4

Given the success of the spring “Discover Davidson!” program, the Office of Admissions has planned a fall event designed to encourage the most talented prospects to consider applying to Davidson College. All high school seniors from across the country who have expressed an interest in Davidson will be invited to this fall visitation program. Discover Davidson will take place on Sunday, October 4, from 1:00 pm to 7:00 pm. The day’s events include: a welcome from Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable Wells, campus tours, an academic fair, a student life panel, a financial planning session, dinner, and a dessert social for the entire college community. The Office of Admissions needs everyone’s involvement to help reveal the unique characteristics of Davidson College. Carla Davis will lead the student effort to make this day a success. If you have suggestions or would like to help with this program, please contact Carla Davis at -6644 or Admission Counselor Lisa.

Help Davidson out in your own special way, Environmental Action wants a logo for a shirt, That can be worn every day. Submit to us your grandiose green work of art, And then we'll be able to start- The Davidson Going Green Campaign! Contact Marc La France or Leslie Goff and further details we can explain!! -6194 or 892-9043

IDENTIFY YOURSELF

Davidson Screen Printers specializes in imprinted T-shirts, sweatshirts, and other sportswear for fraternities, sororities, dorms, clubs, sports teams, and other Davidson organizations. Let us help you create a garment that will express your group's unique qualities and characteristics.

Davidson Screen Printers
428 South Main Street
P.O. Box 126
Davidson, N.C. 28036
Tel. (704) 892-5973
Christine & Ken Hageman