THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

SGA Continued from page 1

sary link between freedom and education, and the importance of maintaining such a bond for the social environment of a college campus. With this established, Williams progressed into the role of the Select Committee and the process undergone by which it came to its conclusions. According to Williams, the Committee’s job was simply to assess the level of intolerance at Davidson and to make suggestions. “We were not a judicial body,” he said. “Considerable and specific evidence was avoided to protect the privacy of individuals.” Furthermore, he continued, the Committee was unanimous in its conclusions, and its recommendations were reviewed by legal counsel to the College. Overall, Williams said, the College was found to be “a fundamentally tolerant community, with a few individuals who have acted in an uncivil manner.” The core of the problems on campus, according to Williams, stem from a conflict between the first and fourteenth amendments - the right to free speech and the right to education, respectively. “Students have the right to free speech, but not to a point where they infringe upon other students’ rights to education,” he said. “We must learn to balance the right to free speech with the right to association.” However, in a setting such as Davidson’s, Williams noted, the right to education must be considered first and foremost.

Next to speak was John Patton, a senior who served as a member of the Select Committee, addressing the issue of “how to rebuild community.” According to Patton, the mission of the Committee was to determine which aspects of the community did not fit within the established definition of Davidson as a Christian foundation based upon “equality, human dignity, caring, and human compassion.” Given this “love thy neighbor” theme, Patton said, it becomes apparent that no individual is beyond guilt. “It is not just a select group that needs to hear this report,” he said, “it’s everyone.” An example of the broad extent of campus intolerance that Patton mentioned was his discovery that, until last year, the bathrooms in the college laundry had remained racially segregated. Continuing, Patton called for a more active role on the part of individuals within the community and a renewed sense of individual responsibility for all. Given this, he concluded, “the college will not only rebuild itself, but reach a new level of quality for everyone.”

To address the issue of social life and the alcohol policy, Dean of

Speaker Addresses ‘Homosexuality and the Christian Faith’

By Danny Newman

On Tuesday night, April 21, the Davidson College Chapel Committee sponsored a presentation given by Dr. John Carey entitled “Homosexuality and the Christian Faith.” Carey is not only the chairman of the religion department at Agnes Scott, but he also chaired the Presbyterian Committee on Sexuality, which studied the issue of homosexuality and its relationship to the church. Carey began by asking a basic question, “Why do Christians take interest in the subject of homosexuality?” Carey noted that most Christians believe that the Bible condemns the practice of homosexuality because it is against God’s plan for humanity. Historically, Christians have waged a “moral crusade” against gay and lesbian persons. However, the recent acceptance of homosexuals into mainstream society has caused a great deal of trouble for the church. In response to this, many churches have allowed homosexuals to gain membership into their congregations, yet relatively few churches have granted homosexuals the right to become ordained ministers, he said. After four years of studying homosexuality, Carey’s committee recommended that the Presbyterian Church should allow homosexuals to become ordained.

Carey then turned to the surprising aspects of homosexuality that he learned about during the study. Chief among these were the misperceptions that the heterosexual community had about the homosexual community. He mentioned that the heterosexual community perpetuates myths and stereotypes about homosexuals. Much of the gay and lesbian community is perceived to be composed of “transsexuals, cross-dressers, transvestites, and drag queens,” he said; however, this is just not true. Most homosexuals live normal lives. Carey remarked that most heterosexuals do not understand the pain and suffering that most homosexuals go through in dealing with their sexuality. Unfortunately, he said, the homophobic and patriarchal society that we live in does not make these problems any easier to solve.

Finally, Carey discussed ways in which the Christian community can help overcome the problems that homosexuals face. First, he said, we should “resolve to be part of the answer instead of part of the problem.” Second, he said, we should ask all churches to be inclusive communities; and third, he said, we should become better informed about homosexuals.

Students

Will Terry was next given the stage. Terry began by emphasizing that “one cannot separate social life and academic life,” stressing the direct relationship that affects one when the other deteriorates. Terry continued, giving a brief history of the alcohol policy at Davidson, in which he noted the increasing amount of alcohol abuse that began in 1986 with the establishment of a fixed policy by both the State and the College. This “abuse,” defined as, “behavior that threatens the welfare of othersThrough physical violence or verbal violence,” shows no signs of immediate abatement, according to Terry. Correspondingly, the main reason for a new alcohol policy, Terry said, is that students are incapable of self-discipline. “It appears that students are not really able to police themselves where alcohol is concerned,” he stated. Second, he continued, is the fact that, with repeated incidents of abuse, “the college and independent organizations are more liable now than they ever have been.” The third reason, Terry said, is the breaking of State laws, an issue which has become a growing concern among the Trustees. It is this flagrant ignorance of the State’s alcohol policy, Terry said, that cannot be allowed to continue.

Terry went on to outline the three cornerstones of the policy, which are the one-cup rule, the monitoring system, and the continuing presence of the Alcohol Enforcement Committee, which will oversee the installation of the new policy and handle all infractions next year. “This policy may drive students off campus, and that will be regrettable,” Terry said. “But I do not think we can allow the demoralization and devastation of the community with the continuing abuse of alcohol.” This “demoralization,” Terry went on, stems in large part from the centralization of Patterson Court in Davidson’s social life. Terry concluded by urging students not to be “petulant,” but to take a positive attitude towards the new alcohol policy and towards the community at large.

The last speaker of the evening was David Wright, Chairman of the Patterson Court Council, who addressed the role of the Council in the deliberations that preceded the new alcohol policy. According to Wright, the Council worked closely with several administrative organs on campus, providing a list of recommendations and amendments - the majority of which are included in the new policy. The changes in the alcohol policy, Wright said, despite the concern among students, will allow for an expansion of social life and a well-rounded campus environment. Wright stipulated, however, that students must first abandon the “passive, apathetic, unassuming roles that they have traditionally held” and adopt an “active stance” in invigorating the campus with new life.

In closing the forum, Anthony Foxx, SGA President, took an opportunity to give a response to the concerns that have been voiced by the student body and to outline the goals that must be pursued in order to achieve a greater level of overall community at Davidson. According to Foxx, the campus must deal directly with the problems that confront the community rather than criticize the legislation issued by the administration. “We must come to grips,” he said, “with what made it necessary for Davidson to propose a new alcohol policy, and what made it necessary for the Select Committee to issue its report.” In approaching these problems, Foxx proposed several goals: increased social inclusiveness and interaction, a positive attitude towards the new alcohol policy, a more improved, interdependent community - encouraged by a system that will reward Patterson Court houses for their efforts to increase campus unity, and a program that will foster a greater sense of community in the arriving freshmen of years to come. “We have to come next fall with a brand new attitude about Davidson,” he said, summing up the message of the forum. “Let’s make next year a year of community.”

Davidson Celebrates Earth Week
By Christopher Edwards

Davidson’s Campus Forum Committee, chaired by Beth Willard, led Davidson in celebrating Earth Week from April 12-19. Earth Week festivities consisted of a study break on April 13 and the presentation of an environmentally-oriented display in the Union Pit. The study break consisted of a screening of the Dr. Seuss film The Lorax plus free Ben and Jerry’s ice cream to all those who brought their own bowl. More than 100 people turned out for the study.

The Union Pit display consisted of a large “Earth Week” banner and posters promoting environmental awareness and action. The posters highlighted environmental facts, and it suggested ways in which Davidson students could help. To save water, for example, don’t take long showers or leave water running while shaving and brushing your teeth. To reduce greenhouse gases, carpool more, bicycle or walk more and travel by train instead of flying or driving. To reduce landfill waste (and consequently, your taxes, which pay for landfills), use recycling bins located in many dorms and in the Union.

The Campus Forum Committee sponsors many other diverse and interesting events throughout the school year. To join up, call Beth Willard at 896-0668.

Beware, The Davidphonian Cometh

College We specialize in producing resumes for graduating college students. Our writer has a degree in English and 14 years of experience. All resumes kept on disks that can be updated by phone at minimal cost. ACCESS RESUME SERVICE 228 E. Kingston Ave., Suite F Charlotte, N.C. 28203 376-0926

RESUMES That Get Results

Student Special: Resume written, edited, and printed. Includes 50 copies in choice of colored paper and matching envelopes. $39.00

Highest quality and variety of typesetting. We know how to enhance the resumes of those who have college degrees but may or may not have extensive experience. Your resume could be the key to your future.