6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

The purpose of this week's article is to congratulate the prominent members of the Davidson College community who have done a wonderful job of creating a positive environment in which we, as students, can grow. An environment completely devoid of tension and full of harmony and an almost euphoric state.

The administration, led by several prominent members, has done a wonderful job of creating a positive environment in which we, as students, can grow. An environment completely devoid of tension and full of harmony and an almost euphoric state.

Everyone can find free punch and Oreo cookies at the Bee whenever they are in need of a quick pick-me-up during a hard Saturday night of studying. My only question is why wasn’t this policy dreamed up earlier. Another of the wonderful effects of this committee is the skyrocketing increase in positive student-teacher social relations.

Chris Frampton - Just last night, I was enjoying a cool, frosty, non-adult beverage and discussing Nietzsche with one of the department heads. I never knew that such discussions could give one such a natural buzz. Not only is the delight of spending time with someone so brilliant they can teach at the nation’s eighteenth-ranked liberal arts college frightening in its quality to astound, but Nietzsche can really get down verbally.

As I hope you have learned, this college is now a wonderful place to attend school. No longer can you hear upperclassmen saying they would transfer if they were freshmen. No longer do students spend study time drinking dangerous alcoholic beverages. No longer do tensions exist between any part of the campus. Who can we thank for this? The people in charge.

Don't Tread On Me: I Hate the Cowboys

About this time you are probably drinking a few beers and getting ready for Monday Night Football. This week the Philadelphia Eagles (3-0) and the Dallas Cowboys (3-0) square off to determine which team will remain undefeated.

When I was a little boy growing up in Greenville, Mississippi, I loved the Dallas Cowboys. This was in the late seventies when the Cowboys vs. Steelers rivalry was in its heyday. I thought the Steelers stood for everything that was bad in the world, and the Cowboys stood for everything that was good. In the front yard, I would pretend that I was a player for the Cowboys. When I played quarterback, I was Roger Staubach. When I ran the ball, I was Tony Dorsett or Robert Newhouse. When the oak tree broke up one of my opponent’s passes, I would say, “Ed ‘Too Tall’ Jones with the deflection.” I loved the Cowboys, and I even cried when they lost to the Steelers in 1978.

So why, you might ask, do I now hate the Dallas Cowboys? I hate the Cowboys because of what Jerry Jones, the current owner of the team, did to Tom Landry. In the March 6, 1989 issue of Sports Illustrated, William Johnson wrote, “The great stone face flinched and the flinty blue eyes went glassy when Tom Landry heard the verdict: He had been summarily removed as coach of the Dallas Cowboys, after 29 years. There was no appeal, no recourse, no room for negotiation. Landry, 64, gazed in shock at the two men who had brought him the terrible news. He said in disbelief, ‘You’ve taken my team away from me.’”

See "Norwood" on Page 7

Beyond Birks: A Friendly Word For the Owl

Welcome one and all to another wonderful column. Would you believe, as we begin this journalistic tour de force, we have absolutely no idea what we’ll ultimately end up saying? Maybe you, the humble reader, would think that each week’s topic is carefully crafted after much debate and editing. And, of course, you'd be right. This week, however, we’ve decided to show y’all how we can form a column out of nothing (or noth-).

An example of exactly the kind of impartial information source that we strive to be (and so should you); he’s a fair-minded, level-headed journalist who’ll give you those additional facts about any given story critical to objective decision-making. For instance, we’ve heard FL’s (faux-liberals) intoning portentously about George Bush and that damned spotted owl. Now, it might put in an honest day’s work for...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

An honest day’s pay (obviously, he’s not a politician). Just like every other creature in Mutual of Omaha’s Wild Kingdom, owlie preys on the weak. Survival of the fittest, baby. And while the Spotted Owl can crunch the bones of any 1-4 pound animal in the forest, it’s relatively puny when compared to the hearty lumberjack. Further, the hearty lumberjack’s children get mighty hungry in the course of a day. So here we are, beginning the second paragraph and we haven’t even remotely relevant to discuss... much less anything worth printing (yeah, we know; when was the last time you saw something worth printing in the Davidsonian?).

J. Kyle Kinner & Seth J. McLaughlin

Now, the hearty lumberjack can either feed his (or her) children with the fruits of honest labor, cutting down trees and replanting saplings, or he (or she) can feed them roasted owl. Both from an environmental and sociological perspective, it’s better for the hearty lumberjack to cut and replace trees than it is for him (or her) to harvest Spotted Owls. Before we get started, how about a quick joke... How do you know when Bill Clinton’s lying? Answer: His lips are moving. Ha, ha, ha... eh, none of your “read my lips,” crap either. As if you never changed your minds? As if you whining faux-liberals had minds to change (Aha! An Idea Commeth.) You are not, and let us repeat it, NOT allowed to think of yourselves as sensitive and caring liberals if you drive around with a “Live Simply That Others May Simply Live,” bumper sticker plastered on the back bumper of your BMW. You may not give conservatives ad hominem lectures on the evils of acid rain if you don’t know what the hell you’re talking about. Rush Limbaugh is a good Pithy Irreverence: interest all you budding eco-terrorists out there to find out a little more about this allegedly harmless bird of prey. In reality, the Spotted Owl of Death is the single greatest argument for increased logging in the now-protected forests of the Pacific Northwest. How do you think the little carnivore gets its meals? No! Not a handout from Big Brother in Washington! The Spotted Owl is a Republican. He goes out and earns his keep by eating smaller animals and spitting their bones and fur back up in little golf ball-sized pellets. If his butt were big enough, he could slap on a sticker reading “I break for small rodents!”

As you can see, Spotted One

Highschool Bound

I'm sitting at the Pub, looking down into my beer, wondering why anyone would give this stuff a blue ribbon, when the thought occurs to me: my life has become very high school. The pimple fairy has come to visit again, which is really annoying. I’m too old to be oxycuting anything. And what I hate worse are those dry-out-your-face pads. Fresh tingle, my ass. Even though I’m 21, people have started telling me when and where I’m allowed to drink. Which, considering the stuff I’m quaffing right now, and the headache I’ll have tomorrow, is probably not that bad an idea. But still, it’s the principle (or should I say principal?) of the thing. Do I get detention if caught outside a designated drinking area with a cold one? (I'll leave that alone now. Seems everyone has given that horse a good whack already.)

I’m having crushes again. (I debated putting this one in here. Either: a.) it will effectively remove me from the dating market, or: b.) everyone will think it’s honest and cute and I’ll become a commodity. I’ll take my chances.) Kinder than nature herself by replacing the owl’s habitat with new growth forest. The prey gets no second chances. In addition, the baby owls will have the added amusement of greater sunlight in the mornings (and afternoons) with all that old growth, canopy forest removed. While it may seem predacious to cut down 500-year-old trees, it’s clearly what nature intended. Sorry folks, but plants and animals can’t cut it in head-to-head competition with humans (except for the possible exception of the lowly cockroach). “Oh, yeah... life goes on. Long after the thrill of livin’ is gone.” By the way, we did think of somethin’ to write about. Aren’t you glad?

Cliques are as strong as ever, except this time they’re national and have Greek names (or campus-wide and rich guy’s names). I’ve got a big red bike. After class the other day, I called up a friend and asked, “want to ride bikes?” I don’t think I’ve said that since 8th grade. Those damned standardized tests are back for an encore. I thought the SAT was it. I distinctly remember someone promising me that. But, no. Now there are more, and they’re doozies. MCATs, LSATS. No “winging it” on those babies. And all of this highschoolishness wouldn’t be so bad, except that I’m about done with college. I have just as little of an idea now of what to do with myself as I did in 12th grade, except now it’s crunch time. The horror is that I could be

See "Lind" on page 7