THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992 - 13

Financial Aid Offers Scholarship Search Program
By Sean Lind

The Financial Aid Office now offers a scholarship search program. The new “Student Aid Research Through Technology,” or START program,
is designed to simplify the difficult, often frustrating hunt for financial aid. The database, which is updated every three months,
contains information on over 300,000 scholarships. Students use the program by filling out a standardized form. The form requests personal
information, GPA, race, handicaps, career objectives, etc. This “personal profile” is then used to pair students with prospective scholarships.

Once the possible scholarship opportunities are found, START will provide students with addresses where they can write for scholarship applications.
START will also specify any special requirements that these scholarships might have. Most students qualify for at least five or
six scholarships. Students may use the program free of charge. Comparable mail-order programs can cost between $45 and $90. The
program will be made available not only to current students but to prospectives as well.

Gordon Peck, Dean of Financial Aid, said the new program is not a replacement for current financial aid services. Rather,
START will “supplement what we’re giving [students] at Davidson or help those who aren’t eligible for financial aid here.”

Students Participate in Mexican Study Abroad Program
By Carey Stewart and Robert Lloyd-Still

Over the summer, Dr. Hernandez and nineteen Davidson students journeyed to Guadalajara, Mexico to study, travel, speak Spanish, and soak
up the culture of our neighboring country. Since most of us were not quite fluent in Spanish, we were a
little nervous about living in a city of five million people where people very seldom speak English. After a few
days, that nervousness disappeared as each of us moved in with our new families. Of course, our Spanish improved dramatically
the more we interacted with people and settled into everyday life in Mexico.

Although it took a while to figure out the public transportation system, it was worth it. Guadalajara’s excellent bus system
goes almost anywhere in the city for about fifteen cents (500 pesos). Other popular forms of transportation include mopeds, taxis,
and VW Beetles.

All class instruction was in Spanish. While Dr. Hernandez taught intensive Spanish, other instructors lectured on the politics, economics, arts,
and the history of Mexico. Class lectures were followed up by afternoon excursions to art museums, local markets, or towering
cathedrals.

Fortunately, we had several opportunities to examine the nocturnal activities around Guadalajara. The bar scene consisted mainly of multi-leveled “discotecs”
where the bouncers hand-picked the most attractive people out of the huge crowds to be allowed in. We were luckily
allowed in also.

The streets were filled with vendors selling incredibly good food. We were forewarned not to eat it, but for some
of us, the aroma was just too tempting. Those who gave in were greeted with an extended visit from the
infamous Montezuma and his dreaded revenge.

Most of the people in Guadalajara were very friendly to us and usually very curious. Many people liked to talk
about politics, the free trade agreement, and Ross Perot, while others wanted to argue about basketball. One night, some high
school students spotted several of us and challenged us to a game of basketball against their high school. We passively
accepted and soon found ourselves in a game with referees, cheerleaders, and lots of enthusiastic fans. Since most of us
that played that day are ex-church leaguers, our performance was painfully average. We lost by twenty and the crowd seemed
let down, as though they had been expecting the Dream Team. No one bothered challenging us again.

Most of our weekends were spent in other parts of Mexico. We visited the shores of the picturesque Lake Chapala,
which is naturally contained by the eminent mountains that seem to rise straight out of the water. We also spent
a few days at the Pacific coast on the beaches of Melaque and Manzanilla, which was nice. We traveled extensively
through the state of Michoacan to towns such as Guanajuato, Morelia, and Taxco. The last week of the program was
spent in Mexico City, the biggest city in the world. Although the city has become legendary for its pollution, it
was not noticeably different from any other big city. The subway system was clean and went everywhere. We spent all
of our time traveling around the city, but it would take months to see it all.

The Davidson in Mexico experience was excellent in all aspects. It provided a well-balanced mix of education and travel, while
at the same time allowing plenty of time for “everyday” experiences. The bottom line is that we all learned a
lot and had a good time while doing so. Those who have an interest in going to Mexico next summer
should drop by the Spanish Department for information. It will be time well spent.

Big Brother/Little Brother

The Big Brother/Little Brother service program has been growing strong since it was started four years ago. This program’s main
goal is to build friendships with and create role models for kids in the community. In doing so, the self-satisfaction
gained by the big brother is surpassed only by the happiness of the kids. Individual relationships, group activities such as
a trip to a Hornets game are planned. Any interest or questions, call Bubba Eubanks (892-4705), Brooks Melton (892-4705), Arthur
Gaston (-6040), or Ramsay Camp (-6508).

Reach Out at Davidson

Carolinas Medical Center — Children

What do bedtime stories, a jungle, and Davidson students have in common? They are all related to a new Reach
Out program at the Carolinas Medical Center. Armed with books, crafts, paints, and toys, volunteer students will travel to the
medical center.Three times a week with the hopes of bringing smiles to the faces of sick children. Although this pediatric
floor does not look like a hospital — it has been recently remodeled to carry a bright jungle theme throughout
— it is “home” to many a sick child whose illness may range from tonsillitis to cancer. With nearly 200
volunteers already signed up, the program is successfully underway; however, more volunteers are always welcome! The hospital needs us as
much as we need them! Making children happy and learning about two or three of its dis: week in. the
Paawidsantin, a Alcohol Enforcement Committee Decides By Sarah Gayle The Alcohol Enforcement Committee met on Wednesday, September 16, 1992, for
the first time. The purpose of the meeting and of the meetings to come is to 1) make some perfunctory
guidelines to lead decisions in the future and 2) to deal with the alcohol violations already given out. The Committee
is composed of five members: an administrator (the Dean of Students or his designate) who should ordinarily serve as chair,
a faculty member from a pool of five faculty appointed by the President, and three students from a pool of
eighteen students appointed by the PCC (12) and SGA (6 unaffiliated members) (Article VII (A) of the Alcohol Policy). At
this time, the most complete list of members of the pool of faculty and students is as follows: Faculty: Peter
Ahrensdorf, Alex Pinkston, Pamela Hay, and Wanda Webb PCC appointed students: Greg Padreick, Dave Tonnidandel, Peter Fischer, Sarah Gayle, Sarah
Patterson SGA appointed students: John Ogle, Josh Neubauer, Greg Fisher, Meredith Hammonds, Jennifer Williams, and Ben Wiley. Wednesday, 25 individual
violations (NOT 150!) were sanctioned. (This is the total number of violations since the start of this school year.) The
majority of these consisted of students under the age of 21 possessing an alcoholic beverage. Based on the North Carolina
State Law, the Committee decided that the first of this type of uncomplicated violation would result in a $25 fine.
The second possession violation results in a minimum fine of $50. For the third similar violation, a student will receive
a larger fine, assessment of necessity of counseling, and possibly community service. Above are the sanctions for simply possessing alcohol
when under 21. These sanctions will be reviewed for any cases that are more complex, i.e., those involving intoxication, destruction
of property, etc. The fines collected from the students or houses who violated the policy will be put into the
“account” from which monitors and policemen are paid. At the meeting on Wednesday, five houses also received sanctions because of
three events. The committee attempted to base the sanctions for these houses on similar cases that were dealt with in
previous years. The most common house sanctions include but are not limited to warnings, fines, and social probation. The AEC
meetings will be every Wednesday with rotating committee members. Students who have received a violation will get a letter informing
them of the location and time of the meeting. He or she is reminded of the violation and told he/she
may come to the meeting to “defend” him/herself. The AEC would most like to curb the abuse of alcohol by
students at Davidson. Many of the guidelines of the new Alcohol Policy are based on North Carolina state laws. If
you do not know the regulations of the new policy, the AEC recommends you pick a copy of it up
at the Dean of Students’ Office because IGNORANCE IS NOT AN EXCUSE! Monthly reports of the committee’s decisions/actions will be
printed in The Davidsonian. By Matt Bumstead As I begin to discuss the system, I want to lead off with
some general points to remember: If you suspect a violation or think you have seen one, what should you do?
First, go to the person whose actions are in question and talk to him. If, having spoken with him, you
still believe a violation has been committed, ask him to turn himself in to the Dean’s office; if he refuses,
you must take the next step. DO NOT talk to a friend first and do not turn the case in
to a member of the Council. You should approach either the Dean of Students office or the Student Solicitors (Deidra
Montague and Tom Price). If you tell a member of the Council information about a possible case, that Council member
is disqualified as a potential panel member for that case. Remember that all trials are open to the public until
declared closed by the defendant. In closing a trial, the defendant ensures that all those involved in a closed trial.
Please don’t think that a Council member who says, “I can’t talk about it” is trying to hold something over
you or to be superior. She is doing just what you do when you say you cannot talk about a
test or a self-scheduled exam (and your parents get angry); breaking the agreement of confidentiality is a violation of the
Honor Code! She can’t discuss it for the defendant’s sake and for her own. So, how does all this work?
Dean Terry will examine the case and present it to the Stude’ See "Honor"
