THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

Soccer

Continued from page 10

the upper left corner with a perfectly struck shot. Six minutes later, Ukrop shocked the crowd by proving himself mortal; after being taken down in the box, he missed the penalty kick high and to the right. As you knew he would, though, Ukrop redeemed himself in the first overtime period. At 100:45, a throw-in bounced to him dead center in the box about 10 yards out. He threw himself into the air and initiated a bicycle kick that hit a very surprised Shockley in the hands and continued into the goal.

“The ball was just there and I guess I caught him off-guard,” Ukrop said. “It’s one of those goals you dream about as a kid. I’d never taken one in a game. I don’t even try them in [teaching at Davidson’s summer] camp because I always hurt myself doing them.”

The goal, Ukrop’s 30th of the season and 75th of his career, gave the ‘Cats a 2-1 lead that stood up until the final two minutes of overtime. At 118:21, a loose ball made it through the Davidson defense to the right post, where Cozier poked it in. Two 15-minute periods of sudden-death overtime followed before penalty kicks, periods marked by the exceptional goalkeeping of Deegan, including a diving save just 10 seconds before full time.

Slagle was impressed with the competitiveness and quality of the play in the game. “It was very exciting,” he said. “I think the victors in this game are the soccer fans of Mecklenburg County.” Many of those fans packed an expanded 49er Field for the game; announced attendance was 3,500, many of whom stood for the entire game, and at least 500 more watched the game from an adjacent hillside.

The consensus of opinion is that those same fans should be able to congregate at Richardson Field next weekend for the Davidson-Coastal Carolina second round game. In the first three rounds of the tournament, teams bid to host games based on their ability to attract and accommodate fans (and bring in money for the NCAA). Davidson’s bid is clearly superior to the Chants’, so logic suggests that the game will be played at Davidson. The decision was announced today.

Coastal was invited to the tournament amid some controversy; an NCAA investigation into the program is not yet complete. The Big South Conference forced Coastal to forfeit some of its wins because it found that some of the players on its roster had played as professionals before coming to the school. The Chanticleers, without the players in question, earned a decisive 3-0 win over the Wildcats in Conway, S.C. on October 24.

Write for Sports!! Call Bruce!

Hockey

Continued from page 12

as a team.” Davidson wrapped up one of the most successful field hockey seasons in the school’s history with a record of 15-2-1. The ‘Cats earned 13 shutout victories, largely due to junior goalkeeper Emily Coleman. She allowed only six goals all season and earned memorable shutout victories against Richmond, Virginia Commonwealth, and James Madison, all of which were ranked in the national top 20 at some point during the fall. She is ranked number nine in the nation in save percentage.

Davidson’s leading scorers were Dockter and Potts, with six goals apiece; Hardesty and Kledis each scored five goals. Twelve different players scored during the season. Ukrop led the team in assists with five.

“I can’t name one outstanding individual because I would have to name the whole team,” Pryor said. “Every player has contributed in so many different ways so many different times that having another team just like this one will not be easy to duplicate. There was a sense of unity which began with the senior class when they were freshmen and it has carried over the past four years. I am very proud of what we have accomplished. I want to continue this type of play and unity for years to come.”

Men's X-C

Continued from page 12

as the squad ran its best races in the final two championship meets. Senior Peter Hurtado saved his best race of his career for last, running a strong time of 34:14 (163rd). Hurtado hopes to translate this into quick timeson the track this spring. Junior Richard Wharton, in perhaps his best race as a Wildcat, ran with Hurtado for most of the way to finish at 34:29 (172nd). Sophomore Erik McMichael was close behind at a personal-best time of 34:50 (186th). The season can only be termed a success, as both coach and runners had fun and drew the most from their abilities. The squad’s top five harriers saved clutch career-best performances for the final two championship meets. Coach Andrew will be without three of his top five runners next fall, but hopes for the continued development of sophomores McMichael, Jimmy Moss, and Joe Beach, and freshman John Bottomy.

Volleyball
Continued from page 12

the lineup for the Wildcats. After a weekend road trip to Marshall University and East Tennessee State University, the Wildcats return home Tuesday night for their final home match of the season against rival UNCC. The team hopes to use the remaining three regular-season matches to gain momentum as they head into the Southern Conference Tournament November 20-22 at Furman.

Tennis
Continued from page 10

region] and challenge for [the Southern] Conference championship.” Leading that challenge will be Kimberly Nance, who was Davidson’s lone representative at the 64-player Rolex Southeastern Championship last weekend at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. She is currently ranked in the top 30 in the country. Joining her will be Jennifer Beahm and Nicole Wilcox, who also play doubles together. Beahm had a very strong performance at the ETSU match. “All the players improved,” Price said, “but the [fall] season went beyond expectations because of those three players. There have been some outstanding signals. They knocked off some good teams.”

Harriers
Continued from page 12

best races for the final two championship meets. DeMoss, a junior captain, ran one of her strongest races ever, a 20:47 (228th). DeMoss hopes to lead the Wildcats to even better things next fall. Sophomore Laura Jordan (20:52, 231st) and junior Lisa Sitek (21:07, 240th) both ran fine races for Davidson. Sitek will be missed by the track squad when she goes abroad this spring. Alicia Dandar wound up the scoring for Davidson with a solid time of 22:34 to place 274th. Coach Beth Manson was very pleased with the team’s effort this season. Manson looks forward to the development of her young team and hopes to challenge the best of the Southern Conference. The return of all eight women, including those above and Carolyn Meadows, Phuong Nguyen, and Marie Grisez, should translate into strong squads for several years to come.

Dave Mader's Model Racer
215 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina 28115
(704) 663-1068

Model Car Racing Returns to Mooresville
The Fastest Fun You Can Have Downtown

Store Hours
Mon.-Fri. - 12:00 pm - 11:00 pm
Sat. - 11:00 am - 11:00 pm
Sun. - 1:00 pm - 11:00 pm

RACING CLASSES ARE FORMING SOON

VISTA Volunteers share the vision of a better tomorrow by making a contribution in the community today. Brighter futures take shape when VISTA Volunteers mobilize and develop community resources to address the many faces of poverty. After your college career is completed, VISTA offers you the opportunity to put your education to work in realistic settings. VISTA Volunteers learn life skills — skills only a year of unique VISTA experience can provide.

VISTA Volunteers are assigned to project sponsors which may be private or public non-profit organizations. Volunteer activities may include, but are not limited to, organizing food distribution efforts, creating networks to support literacy projects, or designing programs to combat substance abuse. In addition to acquiring valuable and rewarding experience, VISTA Volunteers may receive deferment or partial cancellation of certain student loans. VISTA Volunteers receive a living allowance based on the economic level of the communities they serve.

As you look toward graduation, consider becoming a VISTA Volunteer. VISTA offers you the opportunity to shape a community and share a vision of a better tomorrow. To find out more, talk with VISTA representative David Sackin at the Metrolina Career Consortium, November 16th and 17th at the Hilton at University Place, Charlotte, between 8:30 am - 4 pm. Or, call 1-800-424-8867 (TDD 1-202-606-5256).