8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992

D. A. Thompson: Modest Stillness and Humility

Davidson College: Woodberry Forest's Graduate Division?

Apologies abound to those from the north who may not be familiar with the institution mentioned in the headline. I
could have just as easily chosen Phillips-Exeter, Andover, Nobles, or Milton Academy, as I’m not going to poke fun at
the candy-ass prep schools of this Grand Old South; but at those members of our own community who would run
this college like one. (Although it might be fun to discuss these bastions of the banal where boys are shuffled
off to become men by snapping towels at younger butts after Dad’s ditched the marriage for a leggy stewardess and
Mom’s taken up with a bottle of Dewar’s and that dark young genius behind the latest exhibition at the Community
Arts Center.)

Anyway, there is in our midst a not-so-merry band of pranksters who think they have the authority to hand down
mandates regarding specific aspects of student life. For those of you who don’t know already, the faculty recently passed a
resolution which would fiddle around with the daily schedule a bit. None of the class time changes are particularly important,
but dangling like chum at the end of this petty fiat is a statement defining certain “quiet hours” within the
dormitories. The faculty passing edicts about quiet hours, you ask? Where, you might be wondering, would they get the authority
to do such a thing? That’s the funny part, they just up and took it.

I love the story behind this one: a few faculty members, Heil, Barber, et al., told the Educational Policy Committee
that several students (what a wonderfully weak and noncommittal phrase, “several students”) were unable to complete their assignments on time
because their halls were just too darn noisy to get any work done. Ha! Where the hell were these guys
when I was a freshman? Trying to muscle in on someone else’s administrative turf, perhaps, but I wish I’d known
about their gullibility back then. I’m getting all weepy as I imagine the never-found amusement of snowing these guys with
tales of late papers and dates with Jackie O. “Actually sir, the lovely first lady was particularly depressed about her
former brother-in-law’s penchant for drowning his dates, and kept sucking back Schlitz until dawn,” I’d say. They might even buy
Genny Flowers’ story.

Somehow these folks managed to peddle this nonsense to the whole faculty who, after much debate, mounted their trusty steed,
patted Sancho on the head, and charged full tilt at that cacophonous windmill. Actually, the Quixotic metaphor won’t quite do
it: Donny Q was just deluded, and while those who voted for the quiet hours proposition have certainly demonstrated that
they shouldn’t handle sharp things or drive, to tell the Director of Residence Life that he’s not doing his job
properly is flatly insulting.

We already have a system for keeping the peace in the dorms which works just fine. Davidson prides itself on
maintaining a communal atmosphere. When it comes to dorm life, that means the students living on each hall decide for
themselves which hours of the evening will be regarded as quiet. When there is too much noise, a student is
free to ask the offending parties to please put a sock in it. Most problems are cleared up just like
that. If the rambunctious transgressors of the quiet hours pact continue in their too auditory revels, the R.A. steps in.
On the rare occasion that the R.A.’s request goes unheeded, the problem is turned over to the Residence Life Office.

The system is simple, unfettered by too many written rules, and effective. Most importantly, it is managed impressively by Richard
Terry. Even though Belk still smells funny, dorm life is for the most part peaceful and conducive to study.

Beyond Birkenstock: "It's a Surreal Thanksgiving, Charlie Brown"

Hey, guess what! What? Hey, it’s Valentine’s weekend, and we’re too busy to actually write a brand new column to
capture this week’s cultural zeitgeist. Fortunately, we have a RESERVE. This literary gem was written to commemorate the upcoming Thanksgiving,
now long past. Thanks to our now dearly departed copy editor, you were UNFAIRLY DENIED THE OPPORTUNITY TO SEE IT.
Now, thanks to our new, benevolent editor, this IMPORTANT WORK is available for your consumption. Be assured, however, that next
week we will be back to reveal conclusive evidence that GOVERNOR BILL CLINTON has a small wissenschaft. You’ll want to
stay tuned.

By the way, in an effort to make Thanksgiving more inclusive, we’ve given it kind of a Jewish slant. C-ya.

The Birks

Shalom Thanksgiving, Birkbabies! It’s that time again... yes, the point in the linear space/time continuum (for, as you recall, father
Einstein precludes non-linear space/time) when reds are tree and we slit our creative veins open for your holiday entertainment. Some
other words we might use: fecund, trite, or any of the 200,000 or so words in the American language (we
don’t speak no Anglish, round these parts, partner) that have absolutely nothing to do with whatever thought we might have
been about to convey, which by the way, we have unfortunately forgotten, as this sentence stretches interminably onward. What was
it, again Jean-Jacque? (we’re channeling with Rousseau this week--an enlightened kind of guy) When the butterball moon reaches its cranberry
perihelion... knives will glint, birds will run, Tums dissolve in a sea of acrimony... Red Rum, Red Rum... whoa, maybe
the spirits are a little restless this evening... you would be too if you had to spend eternity watching Highway
to Heaven reruns with Michael Landon... ahh, I detect a little Joyce in all of us... no, you politi-Here is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

cal correcties, not Joyce Carol Oats... James Joyce, the Homer of Ulysses, a latter-day L. Ron Hubbard... ahhhhhhh... its stream
of conscious. No it’s not, it’s just Seth & Kyle’s Shalom Thanksgiving Surrrrreeal Holiday Special. Expect no Peanuts (sometimes you
feel like a nut, but mostly you just feel J. Kyle Kinner & Seth J. McLaughlin his manliness?). And whoever
heard of tipping a waiter for bad service because “you don’t know, his dad might have died today.” Yeah, your
neurosurgeon might have just found out she was creamed in the stock market, but she better get your top screwed
on right before she even thinks about getting that 15%, ‘cause THAT’S HER JOB. Like their whole damn world is
unbelievably humorless and you’re surprised Charlie Brown never took up illicit drinking. The poor guy’s only, what... six, and he
already needs a membership in HairClub for Men. Family Circus is funnier. And who wants authority figures saying stuff like,
“whah whah whah whah, whaaah” (translation: Chemical Containment Breach, EVACUATE IMMEDIATELY). Hey, Lucy’d be a little pile of nitrogenous waste
before she ever deciphered a core breach warning from the Charles Schultz Memorial Weapons-Grade Plutonium Plant. Which brings us to
the point of all this pretentious dribble: there isn’t any. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha... (protracted, unprecipitated laughter
is indicative of the psychological breakdown characterized by insanity, a level-4 brain tumor, or two or more years as guest
host on America’s Funniest Home Videos). Irrespective, fun creeps on little cat feet, much like Carl Sandburg’s ter. Hark, the
coherence police inform us that the previous sentence lacked the jejune innocence of le surrealite. C’est dommage. It should have
read, “Did Adam and Eve eat turkey on Thanksgiving, or did the snake [here deconstructed as a phallic representation of
male dominance] tempt them to eat pheasant instead?” These are the kind of things that you too can think about
when you learn to release that cloying death grip on reality. Think of the bumper stickers: You’ll take my reality
when you pry it from my cold, dead fingers. Or, Hallucinogens don’t distort reality, reality distorts reality. [An aside: potential
campaign slogans for ’92. George Bush: Harmless Vegetable or Noxious Weed? Or how ‘bout: Mario Cuomo: Not Just Another Whining
Liberal Whose First & Last Names Both End In Vowels] Isn’t it annoying how the semi-literate... um... don’t have a
clue how to correctly phrase a Just like that turkey. You know that turkey that looks so good in the
oven for about five hours on Thursday (funny how it always seems to happen on Thursday, like how all the
Presidents were born on the same Monday) and smells up the whole house? But then you take it out and
Grandpa Joe, who’s movin’ kinda slow after four Bloody Marys and three hours in front of the TV calling out,
“IS THAT DAMN TURKEY READY YET?” every thirty seconds at the top of his lungs because he’s deaf as a
@#%& post but absolutely refuses to wear his #$%& Miracle Ear for God knows what stupid cosmetic reason, sidles up
to the breakfast bar (you no longer carve at the table ‘cause the electric knife cord won’t reach) where all
your relatives are congregated, (you know, the ones you look forward all year to seeing again like you anticipate a
good case of mono) and he takes that big electric carving knife, (you know, that big, annoying carving knife that
he most part pretty pleasant. The faculty’s interference in matters of residential administration is not needed or, quite frankly, wanted.
In the end, of course, their new injunction will be ignored. The students know what works for them when it
comes to hall dynamics, and faculty decrees to the contrary will do nothing to change the nightly routine. Finally, do
the teachers who sponsored this little legislative ditty also propose to enforce it? Will we see junior faculty members patrolling
the halls in the wee hours of each morning to make sure the new rule is in effect? Of course
not. The faculty’s proposition is, in closing, merely rude hot air: it stems from incredibly silly and probably fictitious student
complaints, it snubs the work of the R.L.O, and it is impossible to implement effectively. The faculty has wasted their
time dreamily combating pseudo-crises in the dorms. always turns on during the one good scene in It’s A Wonderful Life,
where finally George decides his life is worth living after all, and the damn knife makes a whining noise not
unlike certain Democratic hopefuls, and you can’t hear so you turn it up; but someone yells from the kitchen, “why
don’t you turn off the TV and come in here, we’re almost ready to eat,” but it doesn’t matter anyway
because, in addition to being annoyingly loud, the electric carving knife also screws up the cable so you can’t see
either, so you give up and go into the kitchen), and then they carry the freshly carved turkey (it takes
about 45 minutes because Grandpa Joe probably shouldn’t be handling cutlery in his state, but you should see him try
and drive home) to the table, and then some generic aunt asks you how school is, so you open your
mouth to answer, but Grandma Rhoda picks that particular moment to ask what kind of meat you want, as if
it really mattered in the grand scheme of things whether you eat another living creature’s leg, or just nibble on
its breast, but you’re not even sure you want to tell your relatives that you’ve been vegetarian for three months
‘cause you know what kind of crap you’d get about that, plus you’re not even sure you can morally justify
this staged gluttony as an act of “thanksgiving,” nor are you even convinced that the concept of God is a
relevant one, or that the holiday itself, handed down from your Puritan ancestors, is politically correct, ‘cause, hey, we sure
did screw the Indians, didn’t we, I mean, your house is probably built on some vanished tribe’s sacred burial grounds,
and that’s just as much genocide as anything Hitler ever cooked up, isn’t it, but you’re kinda shallow, so none
of these thoughts See "Birks" on page 9
