THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINION MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

In Black and White: Deidra Montague and Scott Windham

We're back, to the delight of some and the distress of others. We say this because we have received overwhelmingly positive feedback not only from family and such, who are required to be nice to us, but also from students and faculty. Which means one of two things: either everyone loves us, or those who hate us aren’t saying so. To those who like us, thanks; to those who don’t, tell us why (be nice). Remember: communication is one of the keys to our goal. To paraphrase our friend and current SGA head guy Anthony Foxx, as long as everyone knows what everyone else is thinking, we can begin to accept each other’s ideas.

What follows is a theoretical conversation:

Scott: You know, Deidra, you and I were talking about “appearances” and the way white and black people view each other. I remember one party at the BSC last semester where I was one of two white people, with about sixty black students. I said to you, “This is the first time I’ve been a minority.” I don’t have some sort of weird aversion to black people (I wouldn’t go to the BSC if that were the case); in fact, it was kind of an eye-opener for me. What did bother me, however, was that some people were giving me The Look. Most people were friendly, but it was like some black people felt I was out of place: that wasn’t my kind of music, wasn’t my house, wasn’t my crowd. Like they were superior to me, like I was uncool because I’m white.

Deidra: I don’t think the people at the party were trying to make you feel uncomfortable; in fact, you probably knew a lot of them. However—and this is a complete assumption on my part, because I can’t read the minds of other people—the people who didn’t know you may have been curious as to why you were there; they may have assumed you wouldn’t like the kind of music they were playing. This is the type of assumption that we’re trying to make people question: it’s unfair to base your expectations about a person’s behavior on his or her color. This is also the type of assumption that white people occasionally direct towards me. There have been times when I’ve been at parties on the Court and felt very uncomfortable, because I was the only black person there and I noticed that people were looking at me. Of course, it eases the situation when I’m with friends, because I only get The Look from strangers. It really makes me wonder what they are thinking and how I appear to them: maybe they are looking at me because I am the only black person at the party, or maybe they’re looking at me because they recognize me from a class.

Scott: So the feeling I had at the BSC is the feeling you have from time to time in other situations.

Deidra: Yes. I do know, on the other hand, that some people think you should only hang around people of your own race or ethnic group simply because they assume you are not supposed to have anything in common with other racial groups. If they have friends who share this viewpoint they feel pressure to conform to the group feeling. People like this think that if you’re at the BSC or I’m at one of the fraternities, we’re in the wrong place.

Scott: Yes, that’s true for blacks and whites. But for the most part, I think Davidson students just make the mistake of making false assumptions. Like when you were surprised to find out that I like Public Enemy and when I was surprised to find out that another black friend of mine doesn’t.

Deidra: Most of the time, I don’t care about The Look because I am going to hang with the people I want. It’s who I want to be with and who I like and the people I have something in common with. The majority of my friends are black but not all of them; my friends are my friends and that’s the way it’s always going to be. We think it’s important to emphasize that racism isn’t just directed by whites towards blacks. It can also be directed by blacks towards whites, or it can be “intra-racial” pressure: whites pressuring whites or blacks pressuring blacks. To place expectations on anyone based on color is common to most individuals, including the two of us, but it is also something we should try to avoid. Think about it. Act upon it. See you next time.

Deep Thoughts: Kirby Shealy

Join Up With Davidson Together

In the wake of the so-called end of the Cold War, for which our esteemed President has somehow taken the credit, we, as a nation, must now turn to more pressing issues at home. No longer can we cringe in fear or focus our efforts or devote our taxes to one giant monolithic enemy abroad. Instead, we must now look inward at the enemies that threaten our strength, our productivity, and our economic well-being. These enemies bear no resemblance to the seedy, evil, vodka-soaked Russians that our generation and those preceding it learned to hate years ago. In fact, they aren’t even people at all. Our enemies are the domestic problems which havebeen festering while everyone’s attention was elsewhere. Low standards of education, rising health care costs, government corruption and stagnation, and intolerance of others all became acute problems while we spent umpteen billion dollars and the last forty years building a “defensive” battery of nuclear and high-tech conventional weapons. Perhaps a shifting of our economic resources will alleviate some of these problems. However, in order for our ever-so-swift government to even begin such an endeavor, we citizens must undergo a change in attitude so our leaders will want to fight these problems to have any hope of reelection. I believe this process has already begun. The outcome of this year’s Presidential election will prove how far. We have a choice to vote for change or to retain our “Admiral” who mutters his mantra “stay the course” even as the ship of state runs aground and the crew considers mutiny.

Despite appearances (and the deadly, biting sarcasm), the above paragraph is not my point. Changing attitudes involves more than just changing presidents. Let me give you an example. Over the last couple of years, this campus has reflected in microcosm the rising feelings of intolerance that have plagued the entire nation in the same period. However, much to our good fortune, Davidson boasts several groups whose purpose is to combat these feelings. Davidson Together is one of these. (Now you begin to understand that what I am writing is not so much a political opinion but something far worse—an advertisement.)

John Patton, Sam Adams, and others formed this group a couple of years ago upon the realization that the railroad tracks effectively divide this town in two. A large number of people on both sides of this “boundary” work with the College in some capacity, but after work, everyone returns home to their “own” community. Why such passive segregation continues in the 1990s I won’t venture to guess, although I will say that Davidson Together serves to combat the cultural misunderstandings and fears that often accompany it. The group meets irregularly and informally with an emphasis on getting to know those in the community.

On behalf of John Rowe, and those who have supported us before, I would like to invite and encourage all students, faculty, staff, and members of the community to attend our next meeting. You'll see flyers for dates and times. If you have any ideas or would like more information, feel free to contact me at -6801 or John Rowe at -6338. Merci beaucoup.

Frampton Rules: "The Other Side of the Story"

When I was about thirteen years old I began puberty. That is probably a little late, a fact that would explain why I can grow a full stubble on the bottom of my chin in a week. Anyway, I think this girl, if you all have things in common, and you may learn that you really don’t want to date her. That is the best pick-up line in the world. Of course, it never works. Try what that was all about. To be sure, it still takes guts to call some girl and ask her to homecoming, but now the process has changed. Guys want to know everything about a girl from whether she throws or not to whether she hooks up or not. So, in order to help you guys figure it out, here is a clue, taught to me by a wise post-grad, that always worked for him. (To be honest I haven’t been able to try it out, but you might.) Walk up to said girl, face slightly tilted to the left (or right), and introduce yourself. Then begin talking to her, asking questions that will, hopefully, lead to a better conversation. (i.e. Where are you from? Are you enjoying school so far? etc.) You may begin to date that is about the same time I had my first full-blown, obsessive crush. I’m not talking about chasing the same girl over and over again while playing kiss tag. I mean writing notes with little check boxes and trying every night to get up the nerve to call the object of my innocent desires.

Of course, guys seem to have forgotten to try to hook up with some girl who doesn’t want to even touch you. Every guy has tried to kiss a girl only to have her do “the lean,” a slow movement away from your face that looks like a catapult being pulled backward. Can you say embarrassment? Then again, that could be better than being slapped, or, worse, having all of her friends learn later in the night that you are a “huge cheese.” Of course, you know that’s not true, you’re just interested. (Don’t forget, they are too or we wouldn’t have babies.) So here is a quick tip. If you get rejected, apologize profusely. At the least you will be pardoned, and at the best you will get a guilt hook.

Write for Opinions!! Call Super Framp at -6200

Pre-Veterinary Meeting
8 p.m. Oct. 1
Big Screen Room
For information call Otto Sharp 892-5426 or Dr. Case -2330