10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992

Davidson "Arts

Davidson Players to Perform Unique Rendition of Antigone

By Mary McNeil and Jeff Terrell

Although one may think of solemn, stoic acting without much variation in a production of Greek tragedy, this could not
be further from the truth when describing the theatre department’s upcoming version of the Greek tragedy of Sophocles’ Antigone. The
play’s director, Alex Pinkston, has actually compiled his own adaptation of the play and has incorporated much interpretive, modern dance
performed chiefly by the chorus. In addition, music from actual ancient Greek songs has been added. Actors perform the music
through singing as well as through the use of instruments such as drums, strings, flute, and recorder played by Frank
Jernigan, David Tweedie, Valerie Whitlock, Tim Ogden, and Carey Morton.

Especially interesting aspects of the production include occasional use of masks, unique costuming, and the use of flashbacks. The costumes
are based on a traditional Greek idea which is to clothe the body so that the outline of male and
female body forms may be visible to the audience. Pinkston achieves this effect through much use of spandex and flowing,
sheer scarves. Players wear spandex beneath full and flowing robes which are left open, revealing their bodies. In addition, the
actors perform with bare feet. Flashbacks have been incorporated into this production so as to dramatize certain pertinent actions and
to help the audience with the history. Examples of flashbacks include Oedipus killing his father Laius and Eteocles and Polynices
fighting each other for Thebes.

The stage itself has been altered in order to expand the playing space and to improve the audience’s sight lines.
The stage has been extended into the audience, and there is also the rare use of a raked or slanted
stage. In addition, lighting effects are unique and detailed with the use of rear projections and patterned lighting designs. The
scene designer who has collaborated with Pinkston on these as well as other interesting aspects of stage design is Ronnie
Higdon. Belinda Higdon is the props/costume designer who has designed the masks as well as various combat properties. Jeff Terrell,
a junior theatre major, is the stage manager; theatre 101 students are helping in many offstage facets of the production.

The title role is performed by Sarah Robinson, a senior who may be remembered best for her performance in the
title role of Hedda Gabler. Buck Reese, a senior theatre major, carries the role of King Creon. Other actors include
Carey Morton as Ismene, Ed Cunningham as the Sentinel, Laius, and other roles, David Tweedie as Haemon, Teiresias, and other
roles, Christina Lopez-Ibáñez as Eurydice and a chorus member, Frank Jernigan as the chorus leader and player of the percussion
instruments, and Tim Ogden as the Page and a chorus member. The other chorus members are Scott Lanhart, Valerie Whitlock,
Constanza Jaramillo, Katharina Altpeter, Colleen Camaione, Becky Hunter, Tate Gardner, and Elizabeth Thornberry. Worth noting is the fact that the
chorus members play

See "Antigone" on page 12

Rush Grimly Portrays Drug Underworld

By Will Montgomery

“Rush” chronicles the descent of a veteran agent and his rookie partner into the narcotics underground of Houston, Texas in
the mid-1970s. The main story centers upon the partnership between a sexy rookie and the gritty veteran. Jason Patrick refreshingly
delivers a complex performance without too much Hollywood grit. Jennifer Jason Leigh is the sexy rookie, but has been to
acting school since “Fast Times at Ridgemont High” and delivers a tense, confident performance.

Patrick’s job requires him to buy drugs from heroin, cocaine, methamphetamine, and marijuana dealers. During deals, Patrick must often cross
the line of legality and sample the product to prove that he is not a cop. Patrick’s character admits to
his new rookie that sampling the drugs is dangerous, but preferable to getting killed in a bad deal. What follows
is a mesmerizing spiral downward as Leigh’s innocent eyes widen to the horrors of the drug culture. At first Leigh
keeps her distance, but soon she must prove herself in the field. She quickly learns the rituals of shooting up
or snorting coke and before long they are skirting a fine line between undercover work and addiction.

The clear strength of this movie lies in the love relationship between Leigh and Patrick and the friendship they build
with their main drug connection. The careful line they must walk between attraction/loyalty and aversion/betrayal creates a hellish tension deftly
exploited through the body of the film.

There were problems in the film. In the first twenty minutes during the establishment of the relationshipsThe dialogue was horrible.
The film formula of “buddy cops + jaded stud meets Bambi = hot sex by the first third of the
movie” seemed so predictable that for a while the film peered over the brink of a sad void of cliched
sex, drugs, handguns, sex, and drugs. Yet the freakish pantheon of slimy but intriguing dealers kept the narrative interesting. In
fact, there is very little graphic sex in the movie, but instead a horrifying subversion of sexual tension within the
dealer exchanges. Their bloodshot eyes often stare at Leigh, hinting that she is a gunshot away from having a dead
partner and being violently raped. The psychological tension of “Rush” was so well developed at times that it almost became
unbearable. The movie is worth seeing for its view into this underworld. It is depressing and sick, but human as
well. The beginning drags and the end seems hastily done, but the body of the film is an accomplishment.

— Whistlin’ Dixie

~~ Matt Bumstead ~~

Well, last week we looked at the top ten women in country music; this week, we’ll tackle the guys. Garth
Brooks will not be eligible for this ranking, however (that would be boring). The competition among males is, however, very
tough. Last week, I left out (on some people’s top ten) K.T. Oslin; I seriously doubt you will all agree
with this list. The rankings do take several factors into consideration, but one of those is my personal opinion...

1. George Strait - What a career he has had. Eleven years in the business, several Male Vocalist of the
Year trophies, and Entertainer of the Year awards in 1989 and 1990, he is an incredible force in the industry.
His live show is absolutely dynamite, and his thoroughly entertaining records hit the top with astounding consistency. He has even
been named one of People’s “50 Most Beautiful People”... What a guy.

2. (Tie) Vince Gill and Alan Jackson - Two performers of remarkable versatility, and two of the very finest singer-songwriters
around, it’s just too hard to choose between them. Gill, also one of Nashville’s finest instrumentalists, has won many awards
in the last two years, including a Grammy and the CMA’s Male Vocalist, Single, and Song of the Year. Jackson,
however, has the greater number of number one songs to his credit, and is a stronger radio presence. So, take
your pick.

4. Ricky Van Shelton - His beautiful baritone voice can light up the fast songs and fill ballads with pathos.
He has been the fans’ choice for Male Vocalist of the Year for three years in a row, and for
Entertainer of the Year for the last two years. His last three songs have been number ones, and the man
from Grit, Virginia is looking to gain more attention for himself nationally and challenge for the top spot.

5. Clint Black - This is generous, as far as the present is concerned. Two years ago, he was on
top. Suddenly, he has all but disappeared from the airwaves. He is an immensely talented writer and performer, but unless
he does something soon, the Houston boy will become old news way before his prime.

6. Randy Travis - He still hits the hit songs, and he still packs them in at concert halls. But
Randy is no longer Nashville’s big man. I doubt he’s too hurt by the whole thing; he’s still raking in
plenty of money and will be considered one of country’s biggest acts for many years to come.

7. Travis Tritt - This ranking may be too low for Tritt, but watch for him to keep climbing. His
gritty delivery and clever songwriting have earned him a large following, and deservedly so. He was last year’s Horizon (Best
New Artist) Award winner, and his songs keep getting bigger. His music is solid and entertaining.

8. Doug Stone - His last three singles have hit the top, including his most recent, “Jukebox With A Country
Song.” He has a rich voice and can growl and swing with the best of them, but it is the
sad song or the ballad where Doug Stone produces one of the most powerful effects anywhere in music. He sounds
great live but is a little awkward in his appearance when he performs. Doug Stone has built a very solid
foundation with which he can ensure his place in country for some time.

9. Joe Diffie - Once we get to this level, it becomes extremely difficult to determine who should fill these
last two spots. The amount of strong new talent, so many of them with at least one...

See "Bumstead" on page 12.
