THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
KEVIN MILLER - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CHRIS HOOD - Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

"P-MAN" - Honorary Production Manager
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

Rebuilding Community

Wednesday evening, the Student Government Association sponsored a forum that addressed the recent changes in the college’s alcohol policy and the findings of the Select Committee’s report on “Rebuilding Community.” One of the speakers was SGA president Anthony Foxx who stressed the need for the campus to move forward and confront the community’s problems rather than criticize legislation by the administration.

“We must come to grips with what made it necessary for Davidson to propose a new alcohol policy, and what made it necessary for the Select Committee to issue its report,” Foxx said.

Foxx is right on target on the necessity of the community to move ahead and begin tackling the problems that have faced us over the past few months. Steps by Dean of Faculty Robert Williams to continue the formation of the Ethnic Studies Department at this time is an example of positive efforts by the administration. Williams hopes that the presence of such a program will address many of the issues causing social tension on the campus in an academic setting. So do we. In addition, plans by the Dean of Students office to include more cultural understanding activities as part of Freshman orientation will also contribute to a healthier environment.

Despite these positive steps and the awareness of a need to “rebuild” our community, there remains a “pall” over the campus from the residue of the Select Committee’s report. The organizations and individuals (such as Patterson Court, Sigma Alpha Epsilon and the Dean of Students Office) targeted in the report remain subject to many of the report’s inaccuracies and attacks. The Davidsonian agrees that it is time to accentuate the positive and move on. We commend the efforts of the Dean of Faculty and the Dean of Student’s Office, but it is a shame that some members of the community are still feeling the report’s negative effects.

Congratulations Seniors

Well, your life will no longer include blue books, self-scheduled exams or Patterson Court (well, neither will ours) and it is time to move on into the real world. Congratulations, good luck and we hope you eventually find jobs.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Professor Mills Supports Work of Select Committee

To the Editor,

I write to share two bits of information with you: 1) Davidson does have a document such as the one you praise from UNC in your editorial (“Committee Did Poor Job,” March 23, 1992), and 2) that report says many of the same things you suggest may be singular observations of the Select Committee on Alleged Intolerance. The Task Force on the Quality of Student Life—a committee of students, faculty, staff, and trustees—gathered, analyzed, and interpreted information from September 4, 1989 until we presented our report to President Kuykendall on March 30, 1990. I urge you to read the 138-page report. Certainly, a Davidsonian reporter, or anyone else interested in how the college is progressing in the challenge to...Create a responsible community, can review those recommendations and compare them with changes that have taken place and with charges that emerge in the report of the Select Committee. The voices of as many students and parents and faculty and staff who were willing to respond appear in the Task Force report. Some of them make claims that your editorial implies are unique to the “less than 2% of the student body” the Select Committee interviewed. In the report of the Committee on Patterson Court and Residence Life, which interviewed “constituencies from each Patterson Court house and from each dorm, as well as representatives from off-campus, in open discussions,” for instance, these words appear: For men, the stronger identification with a fraternity led to students “blocking” to—

See "Mills" on page 8

Figlio Urges Student Consideration

To the Editor,

Last Monday night, I put up about one hundred flyers around campus specifically announcing a post office box that F.L.A.G. has acquired. The main purpose of 2968 is to serve as an outlet for gay, lesbian, and bisexual students on campus who might want to be introduced to other students or just to someone understanding to talk to in the strictest confidence. Within a few hours, more than half of the flyers had been taken down, either crumbled or thrown to the bottom of stairwells, or conscientiously placed in campus recycling bins. To those considerate men and/or women who took those flyers down, I thank you. It saves me the trouble of having to take them down myself. Unfortunately, you did miss a few. I’d mention where they are, but I don’t want to lessen my own burden of removing them—when the time is right.

It’s times like these that make me happy to be at Davidson. I love breathing that straight, Southern, privileged, white air. Sometimes, I breathe it in deeply, it hurts. It makes me come to my senses in times like these when I have wandered away from the herd. How dare I think that we could accept something different. Silly me! They’re just a bunch of faggots, aren’t they. I mean, who really believes that “biologically inclined” stuff anyway? They’re perverts, all of them. What rights could they possibly deserve?

Recently, it has been—

See "Figlio” on page 10

Lane Urges Return of Humor

To the Editor,

“If a man can look at his feet for more than a minute or two and not burst out laughing, then he either has no sense of humor or no sense of proportion.” I am unsure of the source of this quote, but it illustrates an important point. In the past year or two, it seems that everyone has taken up a cause to champion. While there is no harm in this—in fact, dissatisfaction with current conditions is a powerful impetus for change—it also seems that too many people have fallen into the unfortunate trap of taking themselves far too seriously.

Many may counter this with the assertion that they like to party with friends on the weekends, but that is not what I mean. I had the opportunity recently to peruse the spring 1951 issue of Scripts and Pranks. I found it an amusing and delightful (God, I hate that word!) publication. In speaking with an alumnus of that era, I was told that it was regularly filled with humorous stories, anecdotes, and drawings, as well as creative writing. Although occasionally controversial and usually satirical, most submissions were written in good taste. (If anyone is interested in reading Scripts and Pranks for himself, they are located in the Davidsonia Room of E.H. Little Library.)

1965 was the last year Scripts and Pranks was published in its original form, a (usually) monthly magazine. It has since been retired to the inside back cover of the quarterly Davidson Journal, and contains little humor. A revival of this little bit of Davidsonia, I think, would do wonders towards helping us laugh together, instead of constantly promoting our views and opinions on this—

See "Lane" on page 10