16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Editor's Note: Due to the importance of its content and the likelihood that many copies were lost in bathroom stalls, the editorial board of The Davidsonian thought it worthwhile to reprint President Kuykendall's letter to the Davidson community.

TO THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE COMMUNITY

All who care about Davidson College have been deeply distressed and concerned by recent indications that instances of intolerance and disharmony have apparently continued into the early weeks of the present semester.

These instances are reported to have occurred despite the good faith efforts of many Davidsonians during the closing weeks of the fall semester to renew the spirit of community which has sometimes been our experience and always our ideal. Many of the efforts which have been initiated certainly deserve to be fostered and continued. In my judgment, though, the recent allegations of flagrant misconduct on the part of Davidson students will require action of a somewhat different nature.

In response to the recommendation and request of the Dean of Students and in the spirit of the resolution which he drafted for subsequent unanimous approval by the Board of Trustees on Friday, I have appointed a special select committee to be charged with the task of investigating the several indications of harassment and intolerance, with special attention to reports of incidents involving individuals or groups on Patterson Court.

The committee will have full authority to explore any and all recent incidents of behavior which has contributed to campus unrest, and will make a full report to the Dean of Students and to me. Should Code of Responsibility charges against individuals or organizations eventuate from this report, action will be undertaken in accordance with our constitutional means of discipline as described in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. I have full confidence in the capacity of the Dean and/or the Honor Council to deal with such matters appropriately once the facts are known.

The select committee consists of the following persons: Dean Robert C. Williams, Chaplain Charles R. Hasty, Professor Cole Barton, Professor Gail M. Gibson, Mr. John C. Patton ’92, and Ms. J. Machelle Sweeting '93.

The committee will commence meeting immediately and will be asked to complete its work by the end of this month if possible. Results of their investigation which are non-confidential will be shared with the whole community at an appropriate time, and I intend to make a full report of such matters to the Board of Trustees at their spring meeting.

I urge anyone having information pertinent to these investigations to make it available to the committee. Anonymous material will be immediately discarded, but requests for confidentiality will be honored insofar as possible. Arrangements for contact with the committee can be made through Brenda King in the President’s Office (Ext. 2202) from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. My thanks in advance to all who will be of assistance in this process.

A final personal word: Righteous indignation and moral outrage have become common coin within this community during the past few days. This is surely representative of the ethical sensitivity which ought to undergird our common purpose, and we must all assure that this quality is never trivialized or debased at Davidson. At the same time, we need to remember that no worthy or worthwhile purpose will be served by scapegoating individuals or groups within this community. I am convinced that each person with significant involvement in the life of Davidson College shares some measure of responsibility for the problems we now confront. Each person who cares about Davidson also shares the responsibility for discovering appropriate solutions for these problems. We must all remember that this is a time for creative and active responses to our challenges, and I ask you to join me in pledging to make this community better in the weeks and months that lie ahead.

Sincerely,

John W. Kuykendall