THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

Campus Living

Is West Point the Site of New World Order?
Caroline Williamson

What will the new world order look like? What role should the United States play in this international system? Last
November 20-23, I attended the Forty-Third Annual Student Conference on United States Affairs at the United States Military Academy in
West Point, New York. For three days, 142 college juniors and seniors, 40 cadets, and 30 international students debated the
question “After the Cold War: One World or Many?”

In order to focus this topic on a certain area of the world, each delegate was assigned to one of
15 small discussion groups. A member of the East European Roundtable, I was amazed by the quality of discussions among
the 18 participants. Our immense diversity in backgrounds and opinions -- the students represented Hungary, Bulgaria, Germany, California, Rhode Island,
Florida, Texas, Ohio, Virginia -- made it difficult to reach a consensus. Since the product of our talks was a
policy recommendation to the rest of the conferees, however, a general agreement on U.S. interests and goals in the region
was crucial.

Several speakers and social events supplemented our hefty academic pursuits. The keynote panel, comprised of two professors, an economic advisor
to the President, a former congressman, and a retired television talk show host, further addressed this issue of a new
world order. Richard Armitage, our banquet speaker and the negotiator of the Philippine’s Base Agreement, also gave his biased opinion
on American for-

See “Williamson” on page 15

Photo By Casey Rogers

May To Lead Campaign for Davidson
By Susan Sheffield

Jamie May, Director of Development, was recently chosen to take over the direction of the Campaign for Davidson, a six-year
fundraising effort designed to give a school of Davidson’s high quality the financial resources that it should have. “Davidson is
a terrific college whose only perceptible weakness is endowment.” Furthermore, he suggests that Davidson would always be ranked in the
top five among the nation’s colleges if it had the financial base that other schools of a comparable size do.
For example, Amherst, Swarthmore, and Williams each have endowments exceeding $260 million. Davidson’s hovers around $90 million.

From the $150 million that the Campaign plans to raise by 1995, approximately $90 million will be given to the
Davidson Endowment. May says that 60 percent of this goal has been met, which is wonderful, but now a difficult
part of the fundraising process appears. Because the people closest to Davidson have already donated, the Campaign must now voyage
into the wider community. Publications, presidential weekends with prospective donors, and faculty efforts are all means to achieve this expansion.

According to May, the shift in his duties corresponds well to the current position of the Campaign. Rather than continuing
to build a staff as he has done as Director of Development, he will now focus on the mechanism of
the Campaign. His love for this school comes naturally, having graduated in 1970. He returned after several years in Atlanta,
where he taught U.S. History and Government. “One of my great pleasures is working with people that I knew as
professors.” He and his wife, Professor Cynthia Lewis, look forward to raising their 21-month-old son in Davidson, a town he
calls enlivening and exciting.

Photo By

High Q Competition Returns to Davidson
By William Gordon

Davidson, IBM, and WTVI teamed up to present “Super Saturday,” a first-round competition in the 12th annual High-Q competition last
week. This event is open to all public high schools in southern Piedmont North Carolina, but Mecklenburg County teams have
been consistently strong, most notablySouth Mecklenburg, West Charlotte, and East Mecklenburg high schools. Sixty-seven teams competed, but only sixteen will
be returning to Davidson this weekend to face off in further elimination matches. The eight survivors will compete in WTVI
studios to determine the two finalists. Beginning on March 20, these preliminary matches will be broadcast at 6 p.m. on
Friday nights. The final match will be aired on April 27 at 9 p.m. Professor Robert Manning, who is directing
the event, says this competition always makes him feel good about the public school system. “Teams put a lot of
effort into this. The students work hard and have dedicated teachers working with them.”

Editor's Note: The Davidsonian spent last semester somewhere more interesting than overrun and tourist-riddled Europe to share their experiences with
you, our beloved readers. In coming issues, we'll be hearing from students who traveled in India and Kenya.

By Stephen Wogen

“I don’t think that anyone who went to India will ever forget a drive on the left. I remember looking
out the window and laughing. I could not believe that I would be living here for the next four months.
The streets were covered with flies and dust; people were urinating on the streets; cows were wandering aimlessly and stealing
vegetables from vendors' stalls; naked children were playing in piles of dirt. I think everyone in the group was relieved
to enter the gates of Madras Christian College. The campus seemed like paradise, and throughout the semester it would act
as our little escape from the stresses, frustrations, and difficulties we faced in and around Madras.

The first few days (weeks?) were difficult for all of us. There were so many adjustments to be made. At
first, we feared the beggars, our ignorance of Indian customs; we avoided Indian toilets. Over time, however, we adapted to
this culture which at first seemed so foreign. India is a country culturally, politically, geographically, and with regard to religion.
It seems that in each location I visited, I learned something new. By the end of our stay, the cows
in the streets, the traffic, and the paragraphs.

Last summer, when friends discovered that I was traveling to India for a semester, their first reaction was always to
ask, “Why India?” At the time, I really wasn’t sure what to tell them. But now I’m slightly closer to
an answer. If you want to go and truly learn, expand your horizons, and develop a profound appreciation for the
life you lead, there is no place better than a developing country. During the four months I was in India,
I accomplished more than I had ever thought possible. I heard lectures by Buddhist monks and government officials, and had
an opportunity to go into all Indian villages and conduct interviews as part of an independent study project; I rode
a horse through the mountains, an elephant through the forest, and a camel through the desert; and I saw more
of India than most Indians ever will.
