THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

Richardson Field Ready For NCAA Final Four Action

By Tom Koonce

Davidson College’s Richardson Field has had a series of facelifts in the past two years, alterations which helped to bring
the NCAA Soccer Final Four to the campus for 1992 and 1993. The stadium serves as the home field for
both Davidson men’s soccer and football games. Its normal capacity is 5,350, but additional stands along the sidelines and in
the end zones have been brought in for the tournament. The extra seats allowed 7,840 tickets to be sold for
the Final Four.

Until the fall of 1991, only football games were held on Richardson Field. But during the summer of that year,
three lanes of the track surrounding the field were torn up and replaced with turf to make the field wide
enough for soccer. Men’s and women’s soccer games were then held on the expanded field in 1991.

This year, several more changes were made to the field and stadium to prepare for the NCAA Tournament. A new
scoreboard was erected at one end of the field, equipped to handle both soccer and football games. The new scoreboard
now has a message board and reports statistics for shots on goal, saves, fouls, and corner kicks. Two new light
standards were erected, which boosted the illumination of the field to roughly 100,000 candlepower. A TV stand was also constructed
near the press box to facilitate coverage of the Final Four.

The field itself has received extensive work during recent weeks in order to prepare it for this weekend’s action. Men’s
soccer coach Charlie Slagle said that the field “is in very good shape, considering that it’s been in use all
year [for football and men’s soccer]. The field will be in good playing condition. It’s amazing what they [the grounds
crew] have done in such a short period of time.”

Two weeks ago, Davidson hosted Coastal Carolina in a second-round tournament game on Richardson Field. The field was wet before
the game and then a downpour during the game left it in bad shape after the wear and tear of
the afternoon’s play. This presented problems for the grounds crew, but difficulties they were prepared to handle.

The field was fertilized, mowed, and rolled to try and get out any divots on the playing area. There was
also a top-dress mix applied to get rid of some of the big divots from the Davidson-Coastal game. Grounds superintendent
George Morris said, “We’ve been trying to get the turf in as good a condition as possible... It’s been truly
a challenge to get the field ready for the tournament.”

Photo courtesy of College Relations
College employees Thomas Hager and Lonnie Shirley complete the television booth for the national network coverage of the Final Four.

WDAV - Classical 89.9 FM
McMillan Building

“We establish much of our personal identity through a sense of place... The longer I live, the more I am
convinced that Davidson, having captured our imagination in a certain season of life, then provides us with a vision for
all the seasons yet to come... Something there is about this place — at least in possibility — that teaches
us how to age while staying young, that invites us to grow long after our first recollections are nigh erased
by later images, that encourages us to believe the story will continue long after the images have begun to fade.”

John W. Kuykendall ’59, President
Davidson College

A Map of Davidson College

The Davidsonian
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"
