16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

DAVIDSONIAN

'Cats Tie 15th Ranked N.C. State 4-4 on Late Omli Goal

Fall Break Date With #2 UCLA Approaches

By Bruce Balestier

It’s hard to believe that a Davidson soccer team could play poorly and still tie N.C. State (15th in the
new Soccer America poll) in Raleigh. Hard to believe but, according to Davidson coach Charlie Slagle, true. A tired Davidson
team wore down as the game progressed, squandered a 3-1 lead, and settled for a 4-4 tie against the Wolfpack
Tuesday. To Slagle, the game was confirmation of how far his program has come. “In previous years,” he said, “if
we’d played that way against N.C. State we would have been beaten 4, 5, 6-1.”

Davidson took a 1-0 lead 7:14 into the game when Phelps “Samurai” Sprinkle went up for a header in front
of the State goal and popped the ball out to John Sampers, who volleyed the ball in for the goal.
At 16:03, N.C. State’s Blas Cardozo, a Parade Magazine All-American last year as a high school senior, scored to tie
the game 1-1. The ‘Cats led 2-1 at halftime on the strength of the first of Rob Ukrop’s two goals
and Alex Deegan’s play in goal. Deegan made a save on a penalty kick by State’s All-ACC defender Scott Schweitzer
late in the half to preserve the Davidson lead. Five minutes into the second half, Ukrop scored his 13th goal
of the season and 58th of his career, assisted by Sampers and Ben Hayes, to give the Wildcats a 3-1
lead. Ukrop is currently seventh in the nation in scoring.

Despite the two-goal lead, Slagle continued to worry, as he had from the outset of the game, about how sluggish
his team looked. Davidson missed a couple of opportunities to make it 4-1 and put the Pack away, and State
found its way back in the game. Slagle allowed that “three goals [a three-goal lead] might have done it.” N.C.
State freshman Mark Jonas (also a Parade high school All-American) scored with 20 minutes left to cut it to 3-2,
and Schweitzer forced overtime with a rocket from 28 yards that found the upper right-hand corner. The game looked as
if it had slipped away from the ‘Cats when Gabriel Okonkwo scored to give the Pack a 4-3 lead with
4:39 left in the first overtime. Said Slagle, “In overtime we were still running on empty. A few of the
guys were resigned to defeat. But the seniors, notably Spear, Omli, and Ukrop, wouldn’t let that happen.” In particular Omli,
whose goal with 1:52 left in the game earned Davidson the 4-4 tie.

Against College of Charleston Friday night at Richardson Field, Davidson met a team that very much resembled itself. The See
"Soccer" on page 14

Plowright, Coleman Lead Hockey to Upset of #17 Richmond

By Jennifer Roos

Last Saturday, Davidson upset the seventeenth-ranked Richmond 1-0 in front of a big crowd. The Wildcats were motivated for the
game for several reasons. First, redemption; about one year ago to the day, Davidson played its most disappointing game of
the season against Richmond and lost 3-0. Second, last weekend was deemed field hockey parents weekend since the team missed
the original parents weekend due to its road trip to Ohio. The five seniors, Monique Dockter, Simone Plaisance, Jenny Plowright,
Jennifer Roos, and Jacquelin Ukrop, and their parents were honored before the game. Finally, the Wildcats could play the role
of the spoiler, since a Davidson win would likely knock the Spiders out of the Top 20.

The Wildcats took control from the beginning of the game, though they did not score until midway through the second
half. Sophomore Missy Potts, who scored the winning goal against VCU, earned her second game-winning goal against the Spiders. It
was her third goal of the season. Davidson used their new corner play, with junior Suzanne Hardesty taking the initial
shot. Potts was able to pick up the deflection from

Hankins Cracks Into National Top 10 in Scoring

By Chris Hood

Ask Launa Hankins about her success this season on the soccer field, and her response will most likely surprise you.
“I’m not playing that well at all,” she will say. “I’m just being set up, and the team is looking
for me up front.” This is hardly the attitude one would expect from someone who has 12 goals and two
assists in 10 games. Hankins’ scoring prowess, which has helped the ‘Cats to a 7-4 record, ranks her fourth in
the latest NCAA scoring statistics. Her goal total already has surpassed the former Davidson single-season high of 11, and the
freshman is already among the school’s top five all-time leading scorers; her four goals against Erskine earlier in the season
established a Davidson mark. Hankins’ knack for finding the net was honed at Evansville (In.)Day School, where she led the
city in scoring three times. She was drawn to Davidson’s soccer program because of its status as a rising Division
I power. “I was hoping to get a lot of playing time here, and I chose Davidson because it is
becoming top-caliber,” she explained. Despite her outstanding totals, Hankins’ self-assessment is rather negative. “I don’t have the work ethic a
lot of other people have,” she said. “I really do have to work a lot harder to keep doing well.”
According to Davidson coach Kevin Hundley, these statements are indicative of Hankins’ greatest weakness. “She’s been able to physically dominate
some of the players she has played against, and she has a very hard shot, but she is so hard
on herself and critical of her play,” he said.

As the season has progressed, Hankins has found that opposing defenses are also aware of her skills. “I do feel
like I’m being targeted more,” she stated, “and I don’t like it much; I can definitely play better with more
time.” Obviously, more time will not continue to be the luxury it was earlier in the season for Hankins. With
upcoming matches at Kentucky, Vanderbilt, and N.C. State, defensive pressure should be at a maximum on Davidson’s prolific scorer.

See "Hankins" on page 14.

One side effect of Terry Holland’s success is that the Charlotte Observer proclaims him in the running for every high-profile
job that becomes vacant. The Observer’s latest one, published in Thursday's edition, has Holland as one of “three main candidates”
for the athletic director post at Wake Forest. Holland has never promised to stay in Davidson forever, but the same
day he unequivocally denied that he is an aspirant for the Wake Forest job. “It’s not a good time for
me to leave,” he said. “I don’t anticipate leaving.”

Assistant soccer coach Jim Wright, Davidson’s Tournament Director for the NCAA Soccer Championships, and Holland report that they are nearly
ready to give the go-ahead to add roughly 2,000 temporary seats to Richardson Field for the event. That would expand
the stadium’s capacity to around 7,300. Holland had considered the option of setting aside standing-room-only tickets for Davidson students, but
that now seems unlikely. The list for tickets, as of Thursday, had grown to between 1,500 and 2,000.

W&L Grinds Out 27-12 Win Over Wildcats
By Dave Dwyer

“They played well, and the ball just didn’t bounce our way,” said freshman Bo Bartholomew following Davidson’s 27-12 Homecoming loss
to Washington and Lee Saturday. “We just didn’t get the breaks,” he continued. And often, in any level of competitive
football, “getting the breaks” determines the eventual victor.

Davidson’s offense shifted into high gear on the game’s initial play, as quarterback Richard Howell broke through the W&L defense
for an electrifying 66-yard TD run. Davidson’s next seven drives, however, resulted in three punts, a fumble, an interception, and
two fourth-down failures. Washington and Lee, meanwhile, was slowly gaining momentum, scoring two first-quarter touchdowns to take a 13-6 lead.
In the second quarter, the Wildcats held W&L scoreless and brought themselves to within four points with Drew Fassett’s 27-yard
field goal. When the half ended, Davidson had a substantial lead in rushing yards, 127-50, and was slightly ahead in
total yardage. Though down by four points, the ‘Cats looked ready to strike quickly and break the game open.

With nearly fourteen minutes left in the fourth quarter, Davidson found itself with a third-down situation at the W&L 21,
but a costly interception halted the drive. Stopping Davidson’s most significant charge, moreover, seemed to fuel W&L’s offense. General quarterback
Geren Steiner hooked up with William Propst for a 59-yard TD pass, and five minutes later W&L tailback Michael MacLane
found his way into the end zone.

See "Football” on page 15.

Home Athletic Events: October 12-26
Tuesday, October 13: Women’s Soccer v. Elon, 4:00 p.m.
Wednesday, October 14: Field Hockey v. Wake Forest, 4:30 p.m.
Men’s Soccer v. VMI, 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday, October 21: Men’s Soccer v. UNC-Greensboro, 6:30 p.m.
Friday, October 23: Volleyball v. Marshall, 7:00 p.m.
Men’s Soccer v. Georgia Southern, 8:00 p.m.
Saturday, October 24: Women’s Soccer v. Dayton, 12:00 p.m.
Volleyball v. Georgia Southern, 1:00 p.m.
Football v. Charleston Southern, 1:30 p.m.
Sunday, October 25: Field Hockey v. James Madison, 2:00 p.m.
