12, THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Women's Soccer Shoots for Southeast Top 10

By Will Siler

Second-year coach Kevin Hundley expects this year’s women’s soccer team, only the fourth in Davidson history, to challenge many of
the best teams in the Southeast region and the country. With nine starters returning from last year’s squad and a
wealth of talented freshmen expected to contribute immediately, the Wildcats appear capable of doing just that.

Among the starters back from last year’s 10-7-1 team are standouts Jennifer Satterfield in the back and three-year starter Ann
Todd at center halfback. The Wildcats also return both goalkeepers and all but one goal-scorer from last year’s team, including
sophomore Ellen Sprinkle, who scored 12 goals in her freshman season.

Due to the number of talented freshmen, five or six of whom will see significant time from the beginning of
the season, Hundley will have the luxury of substituting frequently this year, something he has not been able to do
in the past because of a lack of depth. Although the team is made up of eight freshmen, seven sophomores,
and only five juniors and three seniors, Hundley doesn’t expect his team to play as if inexperienced. Many of Davidson’s
underclassmen have been starters since their freshman years and have significant experience.

Hundley is also excited by the increased level of play his team has shown in the preseason. “Each year,” he
said, “the talent level has gotten better, [and] every year [there] has been an improvement in the level of play.”
This season’s schedule reflects that improvement. The 1992 schedule includes games with five schools ranked in the top ten in
the Southeast: Duke, Vanderbilt, UNC-Greensboro, Mercer, and na-

See "Top 10" on page 11

Women's X-C Looks to Precocious Freshmen

By Peter Hurtado

The women’s cross-country squad, bolstered by an outstanding harvest of freshman talent, looks to take the strong Southern Conference by
storm this fall. Freshman Marie Grisez, winner in record time of this year’s Freshman Cake Race, looks to lead the
Wildcats this fall. Junior captain Jean DeMoss will provide the leadership for a strong group of young talent. Junior Lisa
Sitck, sophomore transfer Laura Jordan, and sophomores Elizabeth Bishop and Carolyn Meadows will provide some added experience at the college
level. Alicia Dandar and Phuong Nguyen round out the freshman class.

Coach Beth Manson looks forward to the development of her young athletes and will hope for solid leadership from her
veteran harriers. The women open up the fall season with a meet at Appalachian State this weekend.

Kerns, Stewart Lead Men's X-C into Southern

By Peter Hurtado

This year’s men’s cross-country squad returns to the Southern Conference with high hopes. After outstanding summer training, seniors David Kerns
and captain Ian Stewart look to lead the Wildcats into success this fall. Following behind Stewart and Kerns is a
strong corps of veteran harriers. Senior Peter Hurtado, junior Richard Wharton, and sophomores Erik McMichael, Joe Beach, and Jimmy Moss
will all battle for the top seeds on the roster this fall. The squad awaits the return of freshman John
Bottomy from injury next week, and also looks for the continued improvement of junior Greg Fisher.

Coach Gary Andrew is excited about this squad because of its strong summer training and has high hopes for the
Southern Conference Championships in November. The men begin their fall campaign this weekend at Appalachian State.

Under pressure from the Guilford defense, Davidson Quarterback Richard Howell passes for a completion.

Cats Overcome Quakers, Weather in 18-3 Win

By ChrisHood Davidson’s new run-and-shoot offense provided the most production in over a decade of season openers, and the defense
allowed its lowest point total in two years as the ‘Cats topped Guilford 18-3 at Richardson Field Saturday. The loss
avenged a 21-3 defeat to the Quakers in the teams’ season opener a year ago.

Despite the inspired play of the home team, Saturday’s winner nearly proved to be the weather. A steady rain developed
in the second quarter, and thunderstorms caused an hour-and-a-quarter delay at halftime. “This was one of the great jobs of
playing and coaching I’ve seen here at Davidson,” a jubilant head coach Dave Fagg said. “We had a tremendous family
team effort today.”

Davidson opened the scoring on its first possession of the afternoon when Mike Wright broke through the Quaker line for
a five-yard touchdown run. From the start, it was obvious that the new offensive formation had a great deal of
potential. With quarterback Richard Howell calling the plays and audibles at the line of scrimmage, the ‘Cats mixed up passing
and running plays to keep the defense off balance.

The squads exchanged possessions before Guilford began to move the football and moved into Davidson territory. A pair of holding
penalties and a stiff defense drove the Quakers back, however, and the first quarter ended with the ‘Cats ahead 6-0.

Guilford’s lone score came on its first possession of the second quarter. After opening the drive on their own 45,
they moved 46 yards in seven plays before stalling on the Davidson nine. Chris Chavis, one of four Guilford quarterbacks
Saturday, replaced starter Brindon Christman and found wide receiver Phil Lemons twice for 41 yards to set up Ty Clodfelter’s
26-yard field goal to move the team to within three points.

The Quakers would come no closer, as the ‘Cats promptly marched 77 yards en route to their second touchdown of
the contest. A critical 26-yard third down completion from Howell to tight end Matt Matheny led to a 17-yard touchdown
strike to wide receiver John Bodkin. The ‘Cats failed on their two-point conversion attempt, but the primary damage had been
done.

Those who waited out the halftime thunderstorm were treated to the best of Davidson's special teams to open the second
half. After the squad returned to the field turning somersaults, Fassett drove an onside kick straight into the arms of
a sprinting Alden Smith. Facing a fourth down from the Quakers’ 31, Fassett dropped a punt inside the visitors’ one-yard
line.

Though Guilford enjoyed...

---

Organized Chaos: A Guide to Rugby
By Dack Stackhouse

Ahhhhhhhh! What’s going on? I am running down a large field, and 15 gargantuan people are chasing me all over
the place. Even worse, there are 14 other people who I thought were my friends, but all they do is
follow behind me. Couldn’t they at least divert a couple of these monsters that are chasing me? I guess not.
I hear the heavy footsteps of one giant approaching me from the rear, as well as the screams from my
enemies vividly describing how they intend to dismember me and consume me for dinner. Suddenly, I am dragged to the
ground. I release the ball which I have been carrying, and the barbarians leave me alone.

This scene is not a nightmare. It is rugby. Although some may believe that rugby is a nightmare, it is
not. To the novice viewer, the game can appear to be total chaos. However, rugby is not all that complicated.
The game originated from soccer and preceded American football. Thus, it combines the excitement and continuous action of soccer and
the roughness of football.

See "Rugby" on page 10

---

See "Cats" on page 10
