4; THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Confusion Continued from page 1

5th. There is nothing in the Alcohol Policy stating that freshmen can only attend dry parties in September. First-year students
can frequent all weekend parties on the court, regardless of the beverage served.

David Wright, president of the Patterson Court Council, expressed concern over the new policy. “The way it is being enforced
is destroying an environment conducive to responsible drinking,” said Wright. “The policy itself is a beautiful piece of work, but
the current emphasis on spot-checking punishes those who are responsible drinkers and could drive parties off-campus,” said Wright.

Wright was also worried that the new policy could create a more tense, less enjoyable social life, and in the
long run hurt Davidson recruiting. In a response to such criticism, Dean Terry emphasized that the new policy needed time
to work effectively. Terry said, “Whenever you change the status quo, a tense situation is created.” But he said that
the College is not considering changing the policy, at least in the short term.

Kurt Holmes, recently hired by the Dean of Students and Residence Life Office to oversee Patterson Court activities, admitted that
the policy is nowhere near where it should be, but that “we’re getting closer.” He said that the policy is
purposely vague in some areas to allow for adaptation.

One of Holmes' duties is to oversee and coordinate the new alcohol monitor system. The alcohol monitor’s job is not
one a lot of people would want, admitted Holmes, but the general student body doesn’t realize that students working as
monitors keeps Davidson from having to hire “civilians” or off-duty police officers. Holmes said that he would “like students to
be helping and regulating each other.”

Currently, there are twenty-four students working as alcohol monitors. Holmes said that there have been problems finding students to work
some of the parties, especially since he will not hire someone from a house to work that house’s party. There
also must be two monitors and one policeman at each party. The student alcohol monitor’s duties are:
- to monitor the front door (especially at BYO parties, to make sure that only twenty-one-year-olds bring in alcohol).
- to assist a member of the house at the top of the stairs, checking IDs and enforcing the one-beer-up-the-stairs
rule.
- (depending on the party) to monitor the back door.
- to help in general control of the party (assisting the intoxicated and dealing with those who become destructive or
abusive).

Holmes would like to see this last “party control” function become the primary job of the alcohol monitors.

The AEC will meet this week to decide on the penalties for the 16 people who received violations last week.
The alcohol policy does not specifically state what these punishments will be. Holmes said that he believed the AEC would
be fairly lenient when dealing with a person’s first violation, but would deal with repeat offenders more severely.

Wells Continued from page 2

2000. She plans to work with her staff, student leadership, the faculty executive committee, and the trustees to implement this
plan. Cable Wells said, “A longstanding, deep admiration for the institution,”and for President Kuykendall brought her to Davidson and she
feels privileged to be here. She says she is “deeply challenged” by her new position at Davidson, but based on
her past experience and her current work with CASE, Cable Wells is well equipped to confront this challenge.

The Davidson Garden Club's Annual Sale will be held Saturday, September 12, 9 AM - 12 Noon on the Davidson
Village Green. Plants, Food, and Attic Treasures will be offered. Come early. Rain date: September 19.

Somalia Continued from page 1

Menkhaus left the conference “mildly optimistic” about the U.N.’s direction in solving the Somali crisis. “We focused on three areas.
First, the problems of getting humanitarian aid to the people, secondly the use of peacekeeping forces, and finally long-term conflict
resolution,” Menkhaus said.

For Somalia, the immediate concern is getting food aid to the “two million Somalis at imminent risk of famine... an
unparalleled number,” according to Menkhaus. Menkhaus compared getting food to those in need to a “Mad Max” movie where “swarms
of bandits are stealing to eat or make money selling the food. The country is controlled by small groups of
bandits who roam the countryside in bands of 12 to 14, carrying AK-47s, looting and controlling the distribution of food
relief supplies.”

In order to get food to those in need in the Somali countryside, the U.N. is sending in approximately 3500
troops to aid food distribution. “There is a need for much higher levels of force and they are going to
have to use it, they will be engaged,” Menkhaus said.

According to Menkhaus, the United States has a key role to play in resolving the situation in Somalia. “The U.S.
has the financial means to get food and the logistical ability to move it. It is going to take a
long-term commitment by the most powerful to resolve this crisis,” Menkhaus said.

However, Menkhaus questions whether sufficient international aid will be forthcoming at a time when the world’s financial powers are cutting
back on their aid packages. “Compared to the situation in Yugoslavia, there has been little international reaction. When the U.N.
appealed for money, the response was low, mostly due to donor fatigue.”

“In Yugoslavia, there is immediate political fallout. Comparatively, in Somalia, the impact is on Somalia’s African neighbors but doesn’t directly
affect the U.S. and Europe. But when Yugoslavia burns, the potential effects across Europe are extraordinary. It matters in Europe
and worries the U.S.,” Menkhaus said.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

Hope You Had A Great Labor Day in Class!

Welcome Back Students!!

Davidson Screen Printers, your local supplier for T-shirts, Sweatshirts, and other imprinted sportswear, is now conveniently located just down the
street from the Davidson College campus.

Visit Us and Pick Up Your Davidson "Paw" T-shirt for just $8.00 including Tax! (offer extended through September 19th)

Davidson Screen Printers
428 South Main Street
P.O. Box 126
Davidson, N.C. 28036
Tel. (704) 892-5973

Christine & Ken Hageman

We specialize in working with organizations and clubs on special event and identity items.
