THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

Establishment of Quiet Dorms is Not the Solution

Recently, the issue of establishing quiet dorms, or quiet halls, or extended quiet hours has come to the forefront of
attention. A number of faculty feel strongly that the dormitories are simply not conducive to the aims of education. A
number of students heartily disagree. I am inclined to believe that the establishment of quiet dorms or halls would do
more harm than good, and yet, I agree that everyone has a right to enjoy peace and quiet.

To my way of thinking, the present quiet hour policy (midnight to 7 a.m. on school nights) leaves little room
for improvement, so long as it is respected by all hall residents, and is suitably enforced by R.A.s and Hall
Counselors. On some halls, apparently, the system is not respected, or not enforced, but the policy achieves, more than anything
else, a delicate balance between those who run the dorms like military barracks and others who would keep kegs in
the showers.

The idea of a quiet dorm bothers a lot of people, in principle and in theory. If a quiet dorm
is established, does that mean all the other residence halls are, in essence, loud dorms? If the purpose of a
Davidson education, in addition to teaching History or Chemistry or Japanese, is to show people how to live, how well
will people deal in the real world if they have always lived with other quiet people in quiet dorms?

I see other problems as well. Assume, for the sake of argument,

There is Indeed a World Outside Our Microcosm

By Kirby D. Shealy

In the wake of several weeks of discussion and argument about conditions on this campus, I feel compelled to alert
the college community to an event to which we all should be giving at least some of our attention. In
case any of you haven’t heard, the 1992 Presidential Election is fast approaching. Due to the issueless, boring races we’ve
had in the last several years, I am convinced that the majority of the American public is going to ho-hum
right through one of the most interesting and potentially volatile contests in recent years.

All of you Bush lovers out there take heed. The formerly untouchable incumbent, who, only months ago, was riding high
on unprecedented approval ratings, is now sweating his own renomination by the G.O.P. (well, a little bit). Pat Buchanan didn’t
do too shabby in the New Hampshire primary. Americans are finally starting to realize that “winning” the Gulf War was
not the greatest achievement of the twentieth century, as Mr. President would have us believe (I wouldn’t even put it
on my top-ten list). Isn’t it kind of amusing to see the old boy scrambling to take a stab at
long-neglected social issues like health care only when his campaign advisors are telling him that it’s in his best interest
for the upcoming election?

Yes, Chris Malanuk, I am committing that cardinal sin of poking fun at THE PRESIDENT. On the other hand, you
do have to give George Herbert a LITTLE credit. He never made any promises to be some super-dynamic Messiah with
a world of ideas to better the world. George thought he had it made. He figured on Reaganomics carrying him
right through his term without any need for real leadership. He could just smile a lot, throw in a couple
of “Read my lips...” and “a thousand points of light” (whatever that means), and he and Barb could give lots
of dinner parties in the White House and go to Europe for free, and everything would be just DANDY.

You also have to keep in mind that a President that doesn’t come to leadership naturally can’t do a whole
bunch on the domestic front without Congress’ help. He does have to WANT to deal with domestic issues, though, if
he or she is to have a snowball’s chance of being effective at all. That’s debatable with Uncle George.

Which brings me to Bill Clinton. Now I know that at least a couple of you are already thinking he’s
a wife-cheatin’, draft-dodgin’ son-of-a-wife-beatin’-alcoholic (well, you’re at least right about the last part). The Gennifer Flowers story and the allegations
that Clinton weaseled his way out of going to Vietnam have taken quite a toll on his campaign. However, there’s
a lot to be said about him on both counts. I think he has handled the questions about his marital
infidelity quite well. Unlike Gary Hart, he doesn’t pretend to be perfect and has been very honest and open about
his marriage’s past problems. I think the Clintons are to be commended for their candor, and Bill Clinton the candidate
should be judged, not on the basis of whether he has had an affair before, but on his ability to
resolve the problems in his marriage and put them behind him. Besides, IT’S NONE OF OUR BUSINESS ANYWAY.

Now, about this draft thing. If you’ve been following this story closely, you know that in the end, Clinton didn’t
really dodge the draft, but he did not like the idea of fighting in a war to which he thought
America was wrongfully committed. Despite what your personal feelings are about Vietnam, it is fair to say that a significant
percentage of Americans had, and still do have, the same kinds of emotions about our involvement. That’s why we have
movies like BornOn the Fourth of July today. In any event, you certainly cannot take this issue and call Clinton
some unpatriotic, pinko lib- Andrew Spainhour that Duke is chosen to be a quiet a you can’t call Clinton a
liberal for other reasons as well. He is the first centrist Democrat to come down the pike in a long
time. Some of you left-wing Republicans might even like him. As Arkansas governor, for instance, he has cut welfare spending
7%, saying “living on the dole can instill self-destructive values.” Sound like a typical Democrat to you? Clinton hopes to
improve education and health care in this country, and not just by throwing money at the problems, but by raising
expectations for students and putting part of the burden of health coverage on employers. He proposes raising taxes on the
rich ($200,000/yr.+) and those executives who insist on making more than 25 times the income of their workers. These are
the people that hold the majority of the wealth in this country—why not let them take some of the tax
responsibility off the rest of us? Since 1982, Clinton has been the Governor of one of the poorest states in
the Union. During that time, however, he has helped per capita income grow 61%. How? Clinton is an idea man,
full of charisma and enthusiasm. He has an excellent education (B.A. Yale, Rhodes Scholar), having pulled himself out of a
traumatic childhood, and he has had to learn what it takes to be a politician. He’s much more adept at
starting programs with real meat to them than he is at kissing your baby and telling you whatever you want
to hear. The other Democratic candidates have lots to offer, too. Paul Tsongas, the winner of the New Hampshire primary,
has, by most critics’ accounts, the most viable health-care plan of any of the candidates. I won’t assault you with
all their merits, but I do urge you to take a look at all of the candidates this year, instead
of just robotically voting Republican again. Incidentally, I am not working for Bill Clinton or any other political organization. I
am registered to vote, though. Are you?

At a time in which we are hearing more and more about the necessity of tolerance and respect for others,
we need to instill in everyone a desire to live responsibly in every way. The establishment of a quiet dorm
would not achieve this. The way to foster greater respect for others, in every facet of college life, is not
to return to the policy of in loco parentis. Each of us was told during our freshman orientations that Davidson
College is about freedom coupled with responsibility. This must be reaffirmed in the actions of every student. A person with
poor lottery numbers may decide that the only way to live up the hill would be to commit to living
in the quiet dorm for the sake of location only, thereby subverting its intended purpose. Or assume that Akers is
so designated—would enough people want to live down the hill in the name of peace and quiet? The logistics of
location alone would prove troublesome to Richard Terry and the Residence Life Office. In my mind, a quiet dorm would
create more difficulties than it would solve. Unquestionably, we need quiet hours, and from midnight to 7 is perfectly reasonable.
But any greater action would prove detrimental to the college community in the long run.

Lake Continued from page 5

A grape vineyard viewed from a train, not one sight is more special or unique than another. Comparisons need not
be made. Go out to the Lake Campus one late afternoon as the sun is beginning to set and you
might see something just as beautiful. It seems like JYA automatically triggers some kind of cliché expression like: “I found
myself,” “What an adventure!” or “My eyes were opened to so many things.” These are all so narrow, but so
true. When the editor implied that there are places “more interesting” than Europe about which you beloved readers would love
to hear, it frustrated me because this person has no idea about what I see and what kind of people
I encounter from day to day. France is more than a land of poet wine and think. Every corner of
the world is represented by students at the university which I attend in Montpellier. Having contact with this richness in
diversity has opened my eyes and mind to the value of the exchange and sharing between different cultures. However, we
do not have to travel to Africa, Israel, Germany, India, France or wherever else for our eyes and minds to
be opened. Davidson is just as much a world in itself if you let it be. So let your pathway
take a turn sometime. You never know what you may discover around an unknown corner. I’ll join a few of
you next year to talk about what we all have found.

Correction from Sue Ross regarding “Residence Life Office Maintains Busy Schedule in Spring" in the February 17, 1992 issue of
the Davidsonian.

Only students who will NOT follow normal standards of progress should check with the Registrar's Office before housing lottery and
registration random numbers are run. A student who is simply moving from sophomore to junior standing (which may include summer
work) has no cause for alarm. However, if an "off track" sophomore for instance, this spring will be a senior
next fall, that student should come by the registrar's office.
