THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992 11

Rugby Sinks St. Andrews Set for Saturday's Division II Championship

By Dack Stackhouse

On Saturday, the Davidson club rugby team traveled to St. Andrews College for possibly the toughest Division II match of
the season. As expected, and despite missing several starters due to injury and illness, the Wildcats beat the Rhinos like
a merciless ivory collector.

The first half was a standoff. Ordinarily the Davidson scrum, fronted by the likes of “Menacing Mike” and Tom Shelburne,
can and does walk all over other scrums. The Rhinos proved to be tough competition, but not tough enough to
stop the Davidson pack. Wyatt Lilly played his first game as hooker, and the seasoned pack was completed by Jeremy
Potter, Dave Harding, Patrick Malcor, and David Rozelle. Together the scrum played a major role in the 7-4 victory for
the undefeated Davidson team.

The backfield played very well also; Chris Ross played an extremely good game at scrum half. Also in the backfield
was the crazy hooker, Scotch Turner, at fly half, the dynamic duo of Matt Dormer and Bob Yarbrough as the
centers, the speedy John Walsh and the crafty Kelly Shirley on the wings, and finally that funny talkin’ guy, Simon
Priestly at fullback. As a unit, the backfield’s playing was well organized and technically sound.

In the second half, the Wildcats’ play improved, enabling the team to win the game. Turner took the ball, and
about four players from St. Andrews, and ran to the try zone. Not quite able to make it on his
own, Ross and Walsh pushed him the rest of the distance for the day’s only try. Priestly, who was invaluable
in that he single-handedly saved at least two St. Andrews tries, converted the try, making the score 7-0. Soon afterwards,
St. Andrews mounted its attack and managed to score a penalty kick, worth three points. After that, the Wildcats took
charge and held the rest of the game scoreless.

With this victory, the Wildcats are one game away from being the Division II State Rugby champions; the next opponent
is Wake Forest University. Having never beaten WFU, the Wildcats are looking forward to crushing the Demon Deacons and claiming
the state title. With the title on the line, the match against WFU promises to be the most exciting of
the year. The game will be contested Saturday, November 14, at 1:00 pm on the Upper IMAC fields.

Fall IMAC Comes to a Close

By Carla Davis

As the fall IMAC seasons finish off, 3-on-3 basketball and flickerball double elimination tournaments wind down and select the best
teams of the season. Fighting their way through the Men’s A league 3-on-3 loser’s bracket with five wins, Minerva came
back to play the Bogarts in the championship game on Thursday night. As the winner of the loser’s bracket, Minerva,
an independent team, would have had to defeat the Bogarts, comprised of the men’s basketball coaches, twice in a row.
Playing peacefully and self-assured, however, the coaches rose to the challenge to defeat Minerva.

The Men’s B league championship game proved more interesting because the winner of the winner’s bracket, Cunindahouwse, was upset 25-23
on Thursday night by Under a Bed and Overweight in a highly competitive and close game. However, Under a Bed
must defeat Cunindahouwse again in order to become the B league champion (The game will be played this week).

After a frustrating, rain-filled flickerball regular season, the tournament has finally narrowed down the teams to the semi-finals to be
played on Sunday, November 8 and the finals on November 15. In the intensely competitive women’s league, the Flying Banshees,
1991 champions, have fought their way back through the loser’s bracket to play the only freshman team left, What?, representing
Second Little, in the semi-finals. The winner of that game will play the winner of the winner’s bracket Conner House
next week.

In the men’s B league, comprised entirely of freshman teams, the Penthouse Pros will play the spirited New York Super
Fudge Club for the right to play the undefeated 2nd West Belk team next week. In an upset in the
rain on November 4, Crunch ‘N’ Munch, the KA team, beat previously undefeated Just Average Guys, the Sig Ep team.
JAG has however, fought their way back through theloser’s bracket for the chance to play the surprising underdog Night Train
Express in the semi-finals. The winner will then be able to play Crunch ‘N’ Munch next week for the championship
game. Upcoming in the world of IMAC before the second semester is 5-on-5 basketball beginning the week of November 16.
Rosters are due on November 9 (special provisions can be made if you contact Carla at -6644). There will be
a captains meeting at 9 p.m. on November 11 in the conference room in Baker Sports Complex. In this 5-on-5
season, there will be a Men’s A league, Men’s B league, and a Women’s league. The IMAC Executive Council will
meet the first week in January to discuss rule changes for flickerball, so if you have any suggestions, please call
Carla at -6644. As well, a co-ed volleyball tournament, indoor soccer, and street hockey will begin second semester.

ISAA Top 25 (11/4)
1. Portland
2. Creighton
3. William and Mary
4. N.C. State
5. Virginia
6. UCLA
7. St. John’s
8. Duke
9. Bowling Green
10. St. Louis
11. Washington
12. UNC-Charlotte
13. George Mason
14. Southern Methodist
15. Boston University
16. Penn State
17. Wisconsin
18. James Madison
19. Furman
20. San Diego
21. Air Force
22. Hartford
23. Indiana
24. Adelphi
25. Cal State-Fullerton
26. Davidson

Soccer Polls
Soccer America Top 20 (11/4)
1. N.C. State
2. Duke
3. Portland
4. Virginia
5. St. Louis
6. UCLA
7. Southern Methodist
8. Creighton
9. William and Mary
10. Washington
11. James Madison
12. Bowling Green
13. Cal State-Fullerton
14. South Carolina

Breaking Sports News: The Field Hockey team won its third straight Deep South title, defeating Davis & Elkins 2-0.

Field Hockey Stats (Through 11/5)
Scoring
Goals Assists Points
Jacquelin Ukrop 3 4 7
Missy Potts 3 1 4
Monique Dockter 3 1 4
Suzanne Hardesty 4 0 4
Jenny Plowright 2 2 4

Goalkeeping
Minutes Goals GAA
Emily Coleman 1058.27 7 0.463
Mary Ferguson 140 0 0.000

Hockey Continued from page 12
third consecutive Deep South championship title. Jenny Plowright, from West Chester, Pennsylvania, has played in all 68 games over the
past four years. She has contributed seven goals and three assists for a total of ten points while playing the
midfield position. In 1990, Plowright earned Deep South II honors and in 1991 she earned Deep South I honors. Simone
Plaisance, from Asheville, North Carolina, has started in all but two matches over her four-year career. She has 21 goals
and eight assists for a total of 29 points from her attack and midfield positions. In 1991, Plaisance led the
team with seven goals. She also earned Deep South I and All-Tournament honors in 1991. Monique Dockter, of Virginia Beach,
Virginia, has played in all but one match over her four-year career. She has scored 18 goals and added five
assists for a total of 23 points from her attack position. Dockter earned Deep South II honors in 1990. Jacquelin
Ukrop, a co-captain from Richmond, Virginia, has played in every Davidson match during her three-year career. She has 12 goals
and 16 assists for a total of 28 points from her wing position. Ukrop earned Deep South I honors and
Southeast III honors in 1991. Jennifer Roos, a co-captain from Louisville, Kentucky, has started all 68 games over her four-year
career. She has contributed to 38 Davidson shutouts with her defense and also added 17 goals and two assists for
a total of 19 points from her sweeper position. Roos earned MVP honors in the last three seasons and was
on Deep South I and Southeast III in 1991. In 1990, she earned Deep South II honors and in 1989
she earned Deep South I honors.

Rugby Division I State Championships
Davidson vs. Wake Forest
Upper IMAC Fields
Saturday 14 November 1 PM

1890 HOUSE PIZZA & ITALIAN CUISINE
259 S. BROAD ST.
MOORESVILLE, NC 28115
(704) 664-1210
OPEN WEDNESDAY - SATURDAY 5-UNTIL

ALL YOU CAN EAT BUFFALO WINGS $3.95
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA $5.00
Includes Italian Bread & Salad
ANYTIME!

Kids Eat Free Spaghetti & Meatballs With Adult Purchase
Does Not Apply To Daily Specials
