THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

Campus Crime Report

Friday, January 10 4:00pm -- 5:14pm

Between the above times, a worker in the Sports Information Office reported a purse stolen from her pocketbook. She had
left the pocketbook in the office. The total value of the purse and money taken is estimated at around $46.00.

Wednesday, January 8 9:00pm -- 9:30pm

Between the above times, a resident of Akers Dorm reported his Nintendo game system and a cartridge stolen from the
first-floor lounge of Akers. The value of the system is estimated at around $100.

Tuesday, December 17 8:00am -- Wednesday, December 25 10:13pm

Over Christmas break, a Davidson student’s red Chevrolet Corvair was broken into by forced entry through its convertible top. A
duffel bag was taken from the vehicle but found close to the car. Damage to the convertible top was estimated
at $800.

Tuesday, January 7 10:45pm -- Wednesday, January 8 12:05am

Upon returning from break, a Davidson student left the door to her silver Honda Accord open while she unloaded her
luggage. Between the above times, two bags were removed from the open vehicle. The bags and their contents were valued
at around $4,840.

ROTC Receives Commissions

By Ted Richardson

Believe it or not, at least thirteen seniors actually know what they will be doing after graduation. Branch assignments for
senior Davidson ROTC cadets arrived late last week and brought with them a number of surprises. Despite recent talk of
cutbacks in the military, a majority of Davidson’s thirteen senior cadets received active duty assignments, although many requested reserves. In
the past, Davidson College has provided the Army a disproportionate number of top-rate officers. The reputation of the school alone
may answer why so many cadets received active duty assignments this year. All thirteen cadets will receive an Army commission
following graduation in May. Most of these new lieutenants will attend the Basic Course of their specific branch sometime before
October 1, though a few must wait until the 1993 fiscal year to begin duty.

Active duty commitments generally run four years while reserve commitments last eight. If tradition holds, however, many of these Davidson
graduates will far extend their initial commitment to make successful careers of the Army.

The following were this year’s branch assignments:
Kevin Griggs -- Signal Corps
Mac Grimes -- Ordnance Corps (detailed Infantry)
Chris Henderson -- Judge Advocate General Corps (educational delay)
John Howell -- Armor
John Keefe -- Ordnance (detailed Infantry)
Jim Leesch -- Field Artillery (reserves)
Will Pender -- Field Artillery (reserves)
Ted Richardson -- Military Intelligence
Chan Sheppard -- Field Artillery (educational delay)
Sydney Smith -- Quartermaster Corps
Mark Swofford -- Medical Service Corps
Warner Wells -- Transportation Corps (reserves)
Spider Wormuth -- Judge Advocate General Corps (educational delay)

The first Student Government meeting of 1992 began with encouragement for all those interested to sign up to run for
SGA president and vice president, Union president and vice presidents (Co-curricular and Social), Student Solicitor, and Defense Advisor. Students may
sign up in the Dean of Students office Monday, January 20 through Thursday, January 23.

Addressing growing concerns about the effects of minus grades, the SGA ad hoc committee on Minus Grades asked Dr. Sue
Ross (Registrar) to perform a study to examine the results after the first semester. Students will have an opportunity to
voice their opinions at a Minus Grades Forum to be held Wednesday, January 29. Anyone interested in the future of
the minus grade should attend.

The SCC (Student Conduct Council) will meet to discuss the possibility of changes to the Honor Council. Considerations include electing
the Honor Council Chair and Secretary, limiting members’ terms to one year renewable by election, and educating the school, especially
freshmen, about the Honor Council’s procedure by holding a mock trial.

The CCRL (Council on Campus and Religious Life) approved a charter of the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity at Davidson. Al
Gaines (BSC Senator) reported that there are a number of men interested. The final step includes discussion by the Board
of Trustees at their meeting February 6-7.

The Security Committee announced the addition of two call boxes, one behind the library near Jackson Court and one between
Johnston Gym and Richardson Field. The Senate also discussed installing the card access system to Chambers late at night and
to the dorms that do not currently have the system.

Please see the SGA minutes posted around campus for details.

King

Continued from page 1

unemployment, and the education crisis.

After urging the congregation not to let go of their dreams, she reaffirmed the importance of finding a common ground
to solve differences.

Choral anthems and student prayers completed the uplifting service which closed with the congregation singing “We Shall Overcome” and a
benediction by King.

The worship service began the week-long celebration of Martin Luther King week. Other events during the week included a “one-man”
show by John W. Love, a dramatist from Charlotte, and a 24-hour prayer vigil in Lingle Chapel.

Earn $10.50 / hr. as a Part-Time Sales Representative

* Flexible Hours
* Part-Time
* No Experience Necessary
* All Majors Accepted

POSITIONS AVAILABLE IN THE DAVIDSON AREA

Call: (201) 408-5558
