8 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1992

Davidsonian Sports

DAVIDSONIAN SportShorts

Preparation Begins For 1992-93 Spirit Team

Davidson Spirit Team Advisor Jeanette Scire has announced her plans for the 1992-93 Spirit Team, plans which will begin to unfold from 7-9 p.m. Wednesday, April 8, when tryout auditions are held for the Davidson Topcats dance team. Scire hopes to expand the team to 16-20 students and create a Red and Black squad in order to lessen the time commitment involved. Anyone interested in joining the Topcats for their second season should attend Wednesday’s tryout.

Scire hopes to introduce a deemphasized cheerleading squad next fall. The focus of the squad’s efforts will be on simple arm movements and crowd motivation, rather than on athletic stunts. In addition, Scire hopes to create separate basketball and football cheerleading teams, so that the required time commitment can be decreased. People are also needed to fill the roles of the Wild Kat and Wild Kitty mascots. Anyone wanting further information on any of the Spirit Teams can contact Scire at 663-2665.

Golf Struggles at Citadel Invitational, L.D. Small Tournament

In what head coach Gordon Mietz called “a very disappointing outing,” the Davidson golf team finished 14th in a 15-team field at the Citadel Invitational Tournament two weekends ago. Inclement weather caused scores to soar in the opening round; Davidson’s 348 placed the team 14th after the first day. In better weather the next day, the Wildcats compiled a 336 total. Campbell won the tournament with a 317-300 - 617 total. Will McDaniel (90-80), Marc Raber (84-86) and Hal Fogleman (87-83) each finished with 170 totals to lead the ‘Cats. McDaniel’s 80 was the low round of the tournament for Davidson.

Mietz promised and enacted “lineup changes” for the L.D. Small Memorial Tournament at Keith Hills Country Club in Buies Creek, N.C. last Monday and Tuesday. The revamped lineup, featuring McDaniel, Will Coble, Craig Leonard, Kevin Miller and Brad Glosson, played to a 1024 three-round total and a 14th-place finish in the 16-team field. North Carolina took first place with a 916 total. McDaniel (84-79-78) again paced Davidson.

Musch To Try Out For German Olympic Team

Davidson junior center Detlef Musch was one of 20 players recently asked to the German “A” National Basketball Team’s tryouts. The tryouts begin May 21 in Bad Griesbach, and the roster will be whittled to 14 or 15 players before Olympic qualification begins in June. Detlef Schrempf of the Indiana Pacers, former NBA players Uwe Blab and Hansi Gnad, and North Carolina’s Henrik Rodl were among the other players invited to try out.

“It’s a great honor and I’m excited to be on the roster,” Musch said. “My chances of making the team are tough. There are some ex-NBA players and one current NBA player on the roster. Regardless, the experience will help my game.”

Holland Turned Down Interview For UNLV Job

The Charlotte Observer reported Friday that Davidson athletic director Terry Holland declined an opportunity to interview for the vacant position of UNLV head basketball coach. According to the article, Holland met with UNLV athletic director Jim Weaver in Charlotte during the weekend of January 18, but declared his lack of interest in the job at the outset of the meeting.

Baseball Nipped By Nationally-Ranked Georgia Tech

The Davidson baseball team (18-13, 6-3) continued to take on top-notch opponents this week as they traveled to Georgia Tech and hosted Wake Forest and conference rival Coastal Carolina. Andy Paul (6-2) gave another good performance on the mound Tuesday against the Yellow Jackets, but despite two-hit outings by Rick Bender and Chad Blackwelder the ‘Cats lost 4-3 to the nationally-ranked Georgia Tech squad.

On Wednesday the Demon Deacons handed Davidson its second loss of the week in a 13-3 final; Jim Stanfill got his second loss of the season. Sophomore Mac Chapman had a two-run homer for the Wildcats.

After two days off, Davidson took on the Chanticleers of Coastal Carolina for a three-game series over the weekend. In game one, Stanfill (6-3) picked up the loss as the Wildcats fell 9-5. Three of the Diamond ‘Cats homered in the game; Bender and Jazz Freitas hit solo shots while Brett Boretti had a three-run round-tripper. Davidson captured the nightcap 5-4. The two teams completed the three-game set Sunday afternoon.

Netters Drop Winthrop, Look Toward Conference Tourney

By Chris Hood

With an impressive 6-3 Big South victory at home over Winthrop on March 31, Davidson’s women’s tennis team raised its record to 14-5 and 3-1 in the conference. “This was a good match for us,” said coach Caroline Price. “Winthrop pushed us, but we are continuing to show improvement.” Several matches ended withLate rallies by the ‘Cats. Despite falling behind 5-2 in the second set, Tasha Ruth stormed back to defeat Carol De Vries 6-3, 7-5. Ruth and Barbara Grooms won five of the last six games in capturing their doubles match over DeVries/Lim 7-5, 7-6. Cyndi Hess and Nicole Wilcox moved to 22-8 and 25-6, respectively, in individual play after defeating their Eagle opponents. The previous weekend, the ‘Cats competed in a four-team round robin in Greenville, S.C. Davidson crushed Louisville 9-0 on Friday; the netters were scheduled to take on UNCC Saturday and Furman Sunday, but threatening weather forced both matches to take place on Saturday. Davidson earned a fall-spring sweep and Mecklenburg County bragging rights after topping the 49ers 6-3 in the morning match. Grooms recovered after dropping the first set to post a three-set victory, and Wilcox held on late to top her opponent. Although she fell 6-3, 6-7, 6-4 in her match, Jennifer Beahm showed what Price described as “some of the best tennis I’ve ever seen her play.” In the afternoon match, the ‘Cats squared off against the host Paladins, and the 1990 and ’91 Southern Conference champions defeated Davidson 6-0 in singles play. Most of the individual matches were close, but the fatigued ‘Cats were unable to hold off their opponents. With the Big South Tournament less than two weeks away, Davidson looks prepared to defend its title. The ‘Cats battle Radford Tuesday and UNC-Asheville Thursday; both matches are at home. The tourney, which will be played April 16-19, is also at Davidson. For the ‘Cats to take the championship again, they will most likely have to defeat Campbell, the only team currently ahead of the ‘Cats. “We feel good about our adjustment and rate of improvement, and we feel like we can challenge for the top spot,” Price said.

Spears Takes 2nd in 400m Hurdles at Wake Forest Meet
By Peter Hurtado

The annals of Davidson track history were rewritten by the men’s track and field team this Saturday with several notable performances at the Wake Forest Duals, featuring Duke, High Point, and Wake Forest. Sophomore Duncan Spears led the way for the Wildcats by blazing a lightning-fast 400m hurdles at 55.8, placing second. Duncan becomes Davidson’s third-fastest 400m hurdler ever. Senior Ted Richardson continued to leave his mark on Davidson track with a fast 3000m run of 8:55.9 to place fourth; Richardson is now Davidson’s second-fastest in the 3000m. Outstanding times were run in the 800m, where junior Peter Hurtado (1:56.6, fourth place) was followed closely by freshman Erik McMichael (1:57.5, fifth). The performances rank them fifth and ninth-fastest ever at Davidson in the 800m. Senior John Alsobrook also turned in a fine 2:04.3 performance. In field events, Rob King hurled the hammer a distance of 99' in an exhibition event. Will Lazenby had a fine discus throw, placing fourth at 117’2". Rob Clemens gave it his best in the pole vault in his first collegiate competition. Finally, Lee Sutton (43’2 1/2") and King (39’4 1/2") placed third and fourth respectively in the shot put. The men closed the meet with a 3:34 performance in the 4x400m relay; the squad of Joe Beach, Mike Grant, Hurtado, and McMichael was highlighted by Grant’s 52.5 split. The men travel to the Duke Invitational next weekend and hope to continue challenging the legends of the past. Coaches Andrew and Manson continue to gear up their troops for the Southern Conference Championships in three weeks.

Women's Track Tackles ACC in Preparation for Southern Meet
By Peter Hurtado

Two weeks of women’s track and field action featured promising performances at the Raleigh Relays and at the Wake Forest Duals. Despite cold and windy weather, several personal bests were turned in by the women. In the 1500m, Kathy Beach led the Wildcats with a 4:49.4, placing fifth at Wake Forest. Carlyn Lists at 5:10, and Jean DeMoss, at 5:14, followed with outstanding efforts and personal best times. Freshman Maria Whitehead continued her success in the long jump with a leap of 33’7 1/2". Whitehead also fought her way to a quick 69.8 performance in the 400m hurdles. Heather Tarpley continued her chase of the school record in the discus with a hurl of 117’7". Lisa Sitek ran a fine 5000m time of 19:48 in the wind at Raleigh. Also in the wind, Carolyn Meadows posted a fast 3000m performance of 11:27. The women will continue their invasion of ACC schools by traveling to Duke next weekend as they gear up for the Southern Conference Championships in three weeks.