4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

Presidents Continued from Page 3

from it.” She suggested that SAE should be “guided through rehabilitation of the fraternity,” and that this measure would “help the campus as a whole.” Wallace goes on to say that “no doctrine of a national fraternity encourages harassment or dishonorable conduct. They encourage respect and responsibility. The fraternities themselves do not encourage dishonorable behavior. The problem needs to be addressed, but it needs to be remedied by other methods than those suggested in the report.”

Rusk held a forum last Thursday to attempt to understand what the report means, its consequences, and to express personal feelings of Rusk members, so that Wallace can accurately represent Rusk’s view at the Patterson Court Council.

Steven Lilly of Sigma Alpha Epsilon stated that “the investigation of the social system at Davidson was and is necessary, but by no means has the committee solved all of the problems at Davidson.” Lilly believes the Report to be “extremely biased” and stated that it “singles out the fraternity system as harmful to Davidson, and attempts to paint SAE as the worst problem in the system.” Lilly also pointed out that one committee member signed the statement published by A.T. Miller on February 4, 1992, which shows a bias against SAE, and the Report “synthesized only one view of the Court and of SAE.”

Lilly also stated that the committee was under a “time constraint.” Lilly’s reaction to this is “when you are investigating a matter of paramount importance, you should investigate it thoroughly.” Lilly stated that it was not investigated thoroughly, citing that members of CCRL, the Union Board, the SGA, and the PCC were not interviewed, and that the committee “looked at one side of a many-sided issue.”

Regarding the allegations and recommendations for his own fraternity, SAE, Lilly stated that the recommended suspension “indirectly abolished SAE. No fraternity can last two years with no pledges.” Lilly was also disappointed that the committee “made no reference whatsoever to the proactive steps that the SAE house has taken during this semester to improve relations with other houses and within SAE.” He cited their improved relations with Rusk House, which has “re-voted and decided to continue having parties with SAE.” Lilly cites this as “a good example of how two houses can work together and avoid a potentially hostile situation.”

Lilly also pointed out that “no reference was made” to the “Five Point Plan” printed in The Davidsonian on March 2, 1992, “almost two weeks before the committee’s report appeared.” In closing, Lilly stated that “in essence, the committee has interviewed people, interpreted their views, and acted on those views, creating tentative sanctions without taking the time or making the effort to hear the other side of the story.” Lilly, on behalf of the members of SAE, is “more than willing to accept full responsibility for the things [they] have done. The individuals have come forward and been dealt with.” Lilly used the analogy of a family member who has done wrong and has been punished, and stated that “there is no need for the entire family to be punished as a whole. That is exactly what the committee is doing to SAE.”

U.S. Poet Laureate, Brodsky, to Visit Campus on March 30

By David Thompson

On Monday, March 30, Joseph Brodsky will be reading selections of his poetry at Davidson. Brodsky won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1987 and is currently the Poet Laureate of the United States. Brodsky will be reading his poetry both in Russian and in English at 7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The event, sponsored by Dean of Faculty Robert Williams and the English Department, is both free and open to the public.

According to Harry Thomas, Associate Professor of English at Davidson, Brodsky’s success as a poet is due in great part to his lacking a formal education. Unwilling to hear any more “drivel,” Brodsky left school at 15. Brodsky’s freedom from the trappings of classroom education keeps his verse markedly individual. “The poems speak with his distinctive idiom as a man,” said Thomas.

Brodsky was born in Leningrad, and worked a series of odd jobs after leaving school. In 1964 Brodsky was sentenced to five years hard labor in northern Russia for the crime of “social parasitism” (the refusal to hold a steady job). Thanks to protests both within the Soviet Union and abroad, however, Brodsky was released after 18 months. Brodsky next encountered the Soviet authorities in 1972, when he was told to leave the country. Although Brodsky was only 32 at the time of his exile, he was already known as the great poet of his generation. His dedication to writing and his unmistakably unique style have earned him popular as well as critical acclaim. Before he even arrived in the United States, Brodsky had been offered a post at the University of Michigan as poet-in-residence. Reporters gathered at the Nobel Academy in 1987 greeted the announcement of his earning the prize for literature with cheers.

Brodsky’s works in English, published by Farrar Strauss & Giroux and Penguin Books, include three volumes of poetry, Selected Poems (1973), A Part of Speech (1980), and To Urania (1988); a collection of essays and memoirs, Less Than One (1986); and a play Marbles (1990). Since 1981, Brodsky haslived in New York City.

Davidson to Welcome German Professor
By Will Boye

Next semester, Davidson’s German Department will welcome a new addition while simultaneously ending its own homogeneity. Dr. Elisabeth Waghall, who is currently teaching at Washington University in St. Louis, will serve next year as Davidson’s only female, full-time German professor. Waghall (pronounced Vogue-Hail), originally from Sweden, is fluent in German and English in addition to her native language. In 1986, after garnering her Master's degrees in Swedish and Teaching at universities in her own country, she was offered a position at Washington University as an instructor of Swedish. It was a proposition, says Waghall, that was too interesting to refuse. “It was a great challenge to come teach students that were not only strangers to the language,” she says, “but foreign to me as well.”

While teaching at the university, Waghall began working upon her doctorate in German, a language in which she had become proficient due to a number of years she had spent in the country as a child. Waghall says she finds Davidson and its small, liberal-arts environment appealing because it reminds her of the school she attended in Germany after graduating from high school. “I find it nice to be able to return to something smaller,” she says. “After my first visit (to Davidson), it wasn’t a difficult choice to make.”

Waghall will be teaching both elementary and intermediate German classes, as well as an upper-level seminar in her field of interest, Medieval and Early Modern German Literature.

SAE Continued from Page 1

SAE” and is “extremely unprofessional.” Originally, Lilly said, SAE supported the committee because “we thought they would avoid scapegoating any one group.” Lilly pointed out that the words “perceive,” “allege,” and “believe” are used 15 times throughout the report, ten times in conjunction with SAE. He is disappointed that the committee reached its conclusions based largely on speculation and opinion, rather than concrete evidence.

In particular, Lilly is most disturbed with the Dean of Faculty and chairman of the select committee, Robert Williams. Lilly said he has “serious problems with Dean Williams” because prior to this report Williams had indicated his support of fraternities on campus. When Lilly attempted to talk with Williams following the publication of the report, Lilly says that Williams told him that he did not want to talk to him any further. Lilly also questioned the wisdom of selecting the Dean of Faculty to serve as chairman of a committee dealing with student life.

In a letter to the Davidson community which is printed on pages 8 and 9 of this issue as a paid advertisement, Lilly expressed his opinion that the committee failed to interview a truly representative portion of the student body. He points out that the 29 students interviewed constitute less than 1.9% of the student body. Lilly characterized this paid letter as an “attempt to acknowledge where we (SAE) made mistakes” and “not an effort to exonerate itself (SAE) from any guilt.”

Lilly also expressed his disappointment in the committee’s failure to let SAE explain its “side of the story.” He said, “It’s hard for a group to make a change and acknowledge its faults, when you’re not given a voice.” Lilly said he invites those with questions or concerns to approach SAE members directly.

Last week the Rusk house voted to retract their earlier sanction against SAE. On February 5 the house had voted to suspend co-sponsorship of social functions with SAE because of several specific incidents and a general feeling of fear felt by members of Rusk toward SAE’s Patterson Court functions. Susan Wallace, Rusk president, said, “After a house meeting with a delegation from SAE present for discussion and questioning, where we had a chance to openly express our concerns, demand explanations and action regarding them, and hear the delegation’s genuine commitment to address the allegations facing their fraternity, we thoughtfully evaluated our decision, coming to a consensus to uphold the motion with the added option to re-vote in six weeks.”

Lilly cited SAE’s recent dealings with Rusk as a “perfect example of how two groups can work together and resolve differences without being unfair to either side.” He said it was “important that it was handled solely by students.” The recent Rusk vote is also significant, Lilly says, because it shows that SAE has taken responsibility for its actions, while the committee implied that SAE has been reluctant to do this.

Finally, Lilly said that the national SAE organization has been an aid to the Davidson chapter. He says that the national group has been supportive and has attempted to serve as a liaison between the house and the school. Meanwhile, Terry has temporarily suspended all activities except eating at SAE.

Summertime
$10.25 to start - must start part-time & can lead to full-time after final exams. Corporate scholarships & internships available to those who qualify. All majors are welcome. Call 556-6916.

* EARN EXTRA INCOME *
Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to: Travel INC., P.O. Box 2530, Miami, FL 33161.