14 THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING - MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

Phi & Eu. Continued from page 13

tance as male education” to “is slavery a curse or a blessing to the people of the United States.” During
meetings, rigid discipline was enforced. Fines were given for nearly anything. For example, ten-cent fines were issued for wearing a
hat in the Phi room, sitting in an “unbecoming position,” for “smoking... reading, eating, chewing,” and for “spitting on the
floor.” Apparently, chewing tobacco was a common pastime, and the floor tended to get rather messy. Instead, members would spit
out the windows, which proved hazardous for anyone walking by.

Although different from the fraternity experience of today, the literary societies had great appeal. Everyone on campus joined either Phi
or Eu, which naturally led to some rivalry. On one occasion, the entire membership of Eu threatened to leave if
they did not get as many dorm rooms as the Phi members had. Students tended to be fiercely loyal to
the societies, even at the expense of the school. In another incredible move, the whole of both groups left campus
(with the exception of two students) in protest of the unfair suspension of one of their peers. This loyalty, though
divisive at times, led to a great deal of livelihood and solidarity that the students otherwise would be without. Perhaps
the greatest show of solidarity are the gravestones in the Davidson cemetery bearing the seals of the two societies, erected
by each group when their members died.

Unquestionably, the societies became the center of life for the student body, and even acted as a student government. Eu
went so far as to inform the faculty that they had expelled one student for plagiarism. They didn’t expel him
from just Eu, however; they expelled him from the college. Of course, the main focus always remained on literature and
debate, with the secret aspects soon dying out. In 1870, the groups together sponsored The Davidson Monthly, which featured original
articles and works, and later expanded to include news and other items of interest. It died in 1872, but was
revived again in 1886, became the Davidson College Magazine in 1897, and continued to be sponsored and paid for by
the societies until 1916, when the college began to finance it.

The greatest contributions of the literary societies to the college would easily be Phi and Eu Halls, located between Cunningham
and DCPC. These buildings were constructed in 1849 with funds raised by the students themselves, and were lavishly furnished. For
example, the chandelier in the upstairs of Phi Hall is a duplicate of the one Napoleon was married under, and
was displayed at the first World’s Fair. The college expended vast amounts of money to restore the buildings in 1921,
1937, and 1957, and will again renovate Phi within the next few years.

Not to be underestimated, however, are the great libraries of the literary societies, which were built up as references for
the debates and essays they required. These libraries grew to enormous proportions. Phi’s library, for instance, grew by 1846 to
over 1,000 volumes, which were entirely paid for by the membership dues. In 1886, these libraries were combined with the
meagre college library into a collection of over 10,000 books. Society dues continued, however, to pay for new books until
the turn of the century. As a tribute to these earlyRoots, Little Library has the insignia of Dr. Haavi Morreim,
Associate Professor, Dept. of Human Values and Ethics, University of Tennessee, will be speaking on Feb. 3 at 4:30 pm
in the Morrison Room. Her talk is titled "Should Your Doctor or Your Family Decide the Moment of Your Death?"
All students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to attend.

Shops on The Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the OUTDOORS Veta Camping Equipment & Clothing. Come In & Take
Advantage of our Fall/Winter Closeout Sales! Entire Stock - Men's Cotton SWEATERS and Lambswools, too. Solids & Patterns Reg. $35.00
- $75.00 NOW 1/2 PRICE!

Our 80th Year John Mock & Son Merchant of Quality & Fashion Apparel for MEN & WOMEN Downtown Mooresville

Eu and Phi inside the front columns, on the left and right respectively. The traditions of Davidson College have been
indelibly marked by the literary societies. At one time, the societies completely ran the Commencement ceremony, securing speakers, paying for
bands, leading the processions, and holding debates. The societies even gave out diplomas of their own, which at one point
carried nearly as much weight as a Davidson diploma!

The diplomas are still conferred, but the only vestige of the Commencement left to the societies are the Marshals, who
now only lead and seat the processing seniors. These Marshals still wear sashes, pink for Eu and blue for Phi,
and carry the original processional canes. The tradition of giving the sash to the girl of the Marshal’s choice ended
in 1896, however. By that time, the grand days of Phi and Eu were waning. They were no longer secret
organizations, and their positions as centers of student life and government were debased. Fraternities, six strong in 1896, rapidly took
over the social life of the students. Trains ran through the growing town of Davidson, and the college curriculum had
greatly expanded to include the debate and research that previously made the societies so appealing. The size of the societies
gradually dwindled, hovering at around twenty members each for much of the twentieth century, and even dipping so low as
to render one or the other defunct at times.

Today, the societies are mere shells of what they once were. Only the Philanthropic Society meets now, on Sundays at
nine. Although the meetings are much more informal, the focus remains on its motto, “verite sans peur” (truth without fear),
with the emphasis as always on literature and some public presentation. Soon Eumenean will be revived, however; then perhaps the
debates that used to rage from the balconies of each hall will again be heard, the Commencements will regain some
of their former flash and pomp, and a new interest will grow in the literature and creativity historically fostered by
the formerly great literary societies of Davidson College.

Information for this article was taken from Mary Beaty’s A History of Davidson College, Cornelia Shaw’s Davidson College, and The
Constitution and By-Laws of The Philanthropic Society.

Write for Campus Living Call Susan Sheffield — X6635

SPRING BREAK '92. Jamaica & Cancun, fr. $409 Panama City Beach, fr. $119

Earn Cash & Free Travel By Becoming a Campus Representative. Call STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES 1-800-648-4849

SOLD! Sell your real estate / personal property immediately in today's market. Top quality, professional auction and real estate service.
Treet Realty & Auction (704) 541-0600 *(704) 542-9289*
