THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

UMass Campus Seethes With Racial Tension

(CPS) By John Williams

There has been no lack of controversy at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst this fall as racial tensions among
students resulted in disturbances in dorms, the takeover of a building, and a lawsuit filed against the campus newspaper.

“It is fair to say that emotions are running high,” said university spokesman Danny Chun. “They are serious incidents.”

There were three well-publicized events that have brought national attention to the school. The university has an enrollment of 23,600,
of which about 9 percent are minority students. The incidents, to date, are:

- A black residential assistant was attacked by a white man in a dormitory, and the incident later sparked a
melee by minority students in the building.
- About 30 students took over the alumni and development building for a week, demanding that the state fund more
scholarships for minority females. They also were protesting the Columbus Day celebration held Oct. 12.
- Three minority students sued the independent Daily Collegian on charges of discrimination and violation of their civil rights.

The incident with resident assistant Arlens Barosy began Sept. 25 when he asked some people who were drinking in a
hallway in Washington Tower to get rid of the alcohol. A white male, who isn’t a student, allegedly punched Barosy
and ran off. Barosy chased him and got punched again.

On Oct. 3, Barosy found racial graffiti and feces smeared near his room, and five days later, tensions percolated to
the point that about 35 students rampaged through the 22-story building, overturning trash cans and pulling bulletin boards off walls.
Two students who had been associated with the suspect agreed to move out of the building “for safety reasons,” Chun
said. The suspect was found and faces charges of assault and deprivation of civil rights.

Chancellor Richard O’Brien promised students Oct. 9 that campus security would be increased in the dorm area. His solutions include
expanding the university’s escort service and re-instituting human relations, social, and crisis intervention training for the school’s public safety personnel.

“This training must be ongoing, not a one-shot event,” he said. “A review of the department protocols for incidents of
racial harassment and graffiti is also in order.”

Meanwhile, on Oct. 6, about 30 students occupied Memorial Hall, the university’s alumni and development building. They were protesting the
celebration of Columbus Day, saying they wanted the state government to have an annual teach-in to bolster their argument that
Columbus was the start of 500 years of genocide and slavery. Additionally, Chun said, the students wanted the state to
fund 40 scholarships a year for minority female students.

The last seven students left the building Oct. 13 with no incident after university employees moved their belongings from the
second floor, where they were holed up, to the first floor and eventually out the door.

And finally, the independent Daily Collegian was sued by three minority graduate students who claim they were fired because they
wrote stories that editors didn’t like. Dan Wetzel, editor in chief of the undergraduate paper, denied he fired Rabi Dutta
of India, Hussein Ibish of Lebanon, and Madamohan Rao of India. All are doctoral students who put out a biweekly
page in the paper on foreign affairs.

Christobal Bonifaz, the trio’s attorney, said they were fired in early September. They gave the university an ultimatum that they
be rehired by Sept. 21 and have voting power to elect a page editor. He said the university agreed to
the demand, but the paper appointed an editor for the page and the students weren’t asked to return. Bonifaz sued
in Massachusetts Superior Court on 12 counts, including violation of civil rights. He wants the court to...Reinstate the students. “This
is an outrage. They feel very proud of the product they are producing,” he said. “To pull the rug out
from under them is very damaging. Their reputation is at stake.” Weizel said he never fired the students and said
the agreement would have broken paper policy on the election of editors, who can only be voted in at the
beginning of a semester. During a semester, an editor can be appointed, he said. “The charges are false. They asked
me to break the rules,” he said. “They were never fired from the staff and are still full staff members.
Here are three guys in their early 30s suing an undergraduate newspaper with people in their 20s. I hope they
move on, if they can.”

HOURS: TUES.-THURS. - 11 AM-10 PM FRI. AND SAT. 11 AM-11 PM SUNDAY 5 PM - 10 PM

PIE IN THE SKY PIZZA HAND ROLLED AND TOSSED NEW YORK STYLE PIZZA WE SERVE A MEDIUM-THICK CRUST OR EXTRA-THICK
CRUST, LET US KNOW WHEN YOU ORDER WE'LL BE GLAD TO ACCOMMODATE YOU. Sandwiches, Beer & More! FREE DELIVERY (orders
of four or more pizzas, only) 125-2 N. Main St., Mooresville 663-7189 IF YOU PREFER A THIN 10% - 25%
Tees! T-Shirts, Sweatshirts & More Shop Early For Siern & SA | STOREWIDE OFF (Beauregards & Entrance To Peninsula Club)
Lakeshore MarketPlace Tues.-Fri. 10-5:30, Sat. 10-5 Screen Printing For Organizations Oct. 27 - Nov. 8 T-Shirts by Union Bay, Quicksilver,
Lightning Bolt & Eddie Bauer Reg. $6.99 - $9.99 ON SALE NOW Hwy 74, Cornelius 892-3990

Cornwell Continued from page 1 Cornwell’s time was spent in Richmond’s medical examiner’s office where she observed the forensic pathology
now characteristic of her novels. Post Mortem began Cornwell’s series of Kay Scarpetta novels, receiving five international awards in the
process. Body of Evidence and All That Remains followed, accumulating numerous accolades. Her fourth novel, Cruel and Unusual, has yet
to be published but is receiving much publicity. Cornwell has been in Hollywood negotiating with the film industry about a
possible screenplay adaptation of Cruel and Unusual. She could not reveal the specifics to her Davidson audience, however, because she
awaits a public announcement from Hollywood. The example of her success and writing scholarships like hers will prove, Cornwell concluded,
that all graduates do not have to become physicians or attorneys. There is literary life beyond Davidson.

Democrats Continued from page 1 take Davidson students to the rally and gave them all VIP passes to get down
closer to the platform from which Clinton was speaking. This group also organized a voter registration drive in the Union,
brought Congressional candidates Mel Watt and Rory Blake to campus, and went door-to-door in the town of Davidson urging citizens
to vote for Democratic candidates. The College Republicans have provided students with paraphernalia for their candidates. They have also called
area Republicans to tell them to get out and vote on Tuesday. Both of the groups sponsored a debate last
month between students of each party. Student Republicans and Democrats have also talked at area Charlotte schools about the beliefs
and platforms of their particular party.

WDAV Continued from page 1 George Scheibner, WDAV’s program director, explained that the music broadcast during the week was a
selection from the station’s core catalogue. “You could call it ‘the best of the best,’” said Scheibner. WDAV’s first fundraiser
was held in the fall of 1979. Since 1981 it has been known as “Celebration,” according to Clark, in order
to emphasize that the week is a celebration of listener support of WDAV. Said Clark, “It is always impressive to
me the response and loyalty of the listeners who, when asked to come through, show their support time after time.”

Chaplain Continued from page 3 will, according to the job description, “stimulate a discussion of values among students and faculty.”
Dean Marsicano anticipates that a new chaplain will be installed by the end of the academic year at the latest.

1890 HOUSE PIZZA & ITALIAN CUISINE 259 S. BROAD ST. MOORESVILLE, NC 28115 (704) 664-1210 OPEN WEDNESDAY-SATURDAY 5-UNTIL

BUY ONE TEA - $1.50 OFF 1/2 PRICE!! 1 Per Table • Eat In Only

ALL YOU CAN EAT BUFFALO WINGS Includes Italian Bread & Salad $3.95 ANYTIME!

LARGE CHEESE PIZZA $5.00 1 Per Table • Eat In Only

"Kids Eat Free Spaghetti & Meatballs With Adult Purchase” Does Not Apply To Daily Specials
