THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

5

revised and further enforced, pro-
cedures for reporting and responding to harassment be improved, a restructuring of Patterson Court, and a development of social opportunities.
Committee members said that this is why the report concentrates on perceptions and problems. This report cites problems and changes
that Davidson is experiencing in the community as a whole.

According to the report, “The Davidson College community is currently undergoing a gradual transformation from exclusivity to inclusivity (sic).... Change
is producing a variety of dislocations in which the perception of alienation and anxiety among female and minority students is
more apparent than overt intolerance or harassment.” The report also states that overt harassment is “less of a problem than
the stereotypical and offensive attitudes that underlie action and intent, as well as generate rumors.”

The report addresses the problem of alcohol abuse and accuses the houses on Patterson Court as being the “focus of
charges of harassment on campus.” It states that, “Years of benign neglect by College authorities have transformed Patterson Court from
an open community of student eating houses into a closed community of fraternities and female eating houses that encourages good
people to behave badly.”

The report also discusses problems that the committee found in the Dean of Students Office. It concluded that, “Some students
and faculty perceive the Office of the Dean of Students as an ineffective place of favoritism, secrecy, and non-response.” Specific
cases involving the SAE House are also addressed in this document (see "SAE" article).

The committee listed several recommendations for dealing with the problems that they discovered to “reduce the stereotyping that encourages harassment
of others who are different.” The committee endorsed the steps taken by the administration to develop a campus-wide alcohol policy
and recommended that severe sanctions be taken against SAE.

Dean of Students Will Terry said, “The report has some help for the Dean’s office. We intend to accept the
recommendation of the committee to establish liaisons with minority students, women, and members of F.L.A.G. so they can encourage students
who are harassed to bring their cases to be adjudicated. It is my intention that the two assistant deans of
students have a higher profile both in disciplinary matters and other cases of the college.” Terry stated that the Student
Conduct Council will begin to look at the Code of Responsibility in the fall.

Kuykendall said, “We’re left with some remaining questions. The committee wasn’t equipped or empowered to pursue things that have been
unanswered.” He said that the report was intentionally blunt in that the “committee was concerned to convey not only the
content but the impact of what they heard.” Kuykendall also believes that this committee didn’t have the intention of hurting
or antagonizing anyone in the larger Davidson community.

Terry said, “The report has certainly raised issues which will be discussed and debated for the...a major representative group on
campus. They recommended taking a look at that aspect of the Davidson community. Kuyken- Terry said, “The report would indicate
that SAE is not the only group that has behavioral problems, and there is no reason that anybody should gloat
about this because any fraternity could get the same letter.” The letter Terry mentions is one sent to SAE by
Terry stating immediate sanctions to be placed on that fraternity. Members of SAE believe that there are several inaccurate statements
in this report. In response to this belief, Hasty said, “If there are any inaccuracies, I’m not aware of them.”
Upon completion of this report, the committee is now finished with their role in investigating these perceived problems of intolerance
on campus. Members of the committee said that the situation and whatever action may be taken will be turned over
to the administration.

Hasty said that this petition is a “call to the faculty to be involved in the total life of the
community.” He said, “I hope that this will help to dismantle the barrier between the north side of Chambers and
the front of Belk, that it will make us realize that what happens on Patterson Court and the residence halls
is integral to what goes on in the classroom.” Hasty said the report “empowers the administration and encourages students to
continue to be involved in reshaping this community.” He said, “It is everybody’s responsibility to be engaged in this next
year, particularly as it relates to Patterson Court.” In regards to Patterson Court, Kuykendall said that in all probability there
would be changes.

The secretary represents the decision of the Council. Bumstead, in a speech he made to the Council, mentioned several concerns
and ideas he had for the coming year. He said, “It would be my hope that I would be able
to help make the community more comfortable about the Honor System.” As part of this effort, Bumstead proposed publishing a
series of articles in The Davidsonian “with the purpose of going into great detail about the workings of the system.”
He said, “I have found that students know amazingly little about how the system works, and I would hope to
help involve and educate them in this way.” He also expressed concern over the current appeal process and said that
he would like to work with Dean Terry and the Student Conduct Council “to consider movements for Review Board reforms.”

Questions Regarding Financial Aid For 1992-1993

Studying Abroad? Have a 3.0 or higher? North Carolina resident? Unsure if you qualify for need-based aid? If you have
questions concerning honor/merit scholarships, outside sources of aid, and/or eligibility requirements for need-based aid (including work-study jobs, loans, and federal
and state grants), please stop by the Financial Aid Office for an appointment or to pick up the necessary forms.
The deadline for applying for aid is May 1, 1992. The office is in #1 Jackson Office and our hours
are 9-12 PM and 2-5 PM.
