6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

Holmes Continued from page 5

of it. I am stuck with it as much as the Court and the students, so we have to learn
to work through it together. There’s a lot of stuff about the policy and interpretation that just isn’t clear and
we’re all going to have to work through it.

Davidsonian: Having worked at other colleges, do you believe alcohol is a bigger problem at Davidson?

Holmes: I don’t think it's a bigger problem by any means. My most direct experiences have been with institutions very
similar (to Davidson). Allegheny College and Washington & Jefferson are both small, private liberal arts colleges with a selective group.
I have seen that category of students.

Davidsonian: What role do you foresee Patterson Court playing this year and in the future? Do you think student social
interests will shift from Patterson Court towards the Union or off-campus?

Holmes: I guess I can’t answer whether it will or not, it's going to depend on what happens in the
next year or so and that’s why I say I would like to be proactive in my work with Patterson
Court. I don’t think there’s any reason that it has to shift and I don’t think that there’s also any
reason that that couldn’t be a good thing for the Court. Having the Outpost down here is a link, the
statement can be made that you don’t have to go exclusively to Union events or you don’t have to exclusively
go to Court events. You can do some of each. I would like to have an opportunity to work with
the Court more on some of those all-campus things sponsored by the Court (such as Lunar Luau) so the Court
can remain an integral part of the social life. But, it will have to change. It can’t be the place
where people say “When we want to get alcohol, that’s the place to go.” I don’t think it should be
that kind of thing. As any house member down there should feel, and I’m not sure they all do, you
should be known for more than just the place to party. Each of the houses offers a lot of leadership
opportunities, and a lot of other social interaction opportunities that you don’t get in many other areas of campus life.
Those things ought to be what’s stressed, encourage those things and those kinds of interactions.

Davidsonian: Many people have not really seen you and do not know who you are, do you plan to have
a visible role on campus and how much will you interact with students?

Holmes: I hope to. I made a joke to some people that all I’ve talked about for three weeks is
alcohol. As soon as I get a chance to do something else, I’ll be happy and I think that people
will recognize me and see me a lot more. At the same time, Davidson doesn’t have a history of live-on
staff members. I come from an institution that has five staff members and administrators living on campus. The last thing
I want to be perceived as is infiltrating or trying to stick my nose in too far into what students
do. I think there’s a great history of student autonomy at Davidson and I wouldn’t want to be seen as
imposing myself too much. So, I’m not racing to get too visible. I guess visible is the wrong word, visible
yes, but you don’t want to be intrusive.

Davidsonian: How do you think the alcohol policy is working after these past three weeks?

Holmes: If I had to do an evaluation right now, I would probably not give it more than about a
65 or 70 percent. That’s mostly because we have had so much to adapt as we go. The first party
we were probably down around 30% efficiency or effectiveness. There are areas that the policy, as it was written, didn’t
address because they weren’t issues of concern. The whole area of BYOB wasn’t covered. So, when people were doing BYOB
parties, they were very haphazard - we didn’t know what we were supposed to be doing, we didn’t know what
kind of monitors we should have or what they should be doing. So those I think are the negative points
of the policy because students don’t know. The worst thing you can have is a policy that’s undefined and very
cryptic and no one knows exactly how they are supposed to react to it. I find that students really just
want to know what the system is, what the rules are. They’ll find a way to work with it, they’ll
find a way to deal with it. They may not be happy with what it says, but they are intelligent
enough to know what’s going on in society. People’s complaints seem to be in an arbitrary nature of it, and
while I don’t think it's arbitrary it is kind of amorphous right now. It is kind of undefined in certain
areas and that’s the toughest problem. I figure another week or two and we'll be running pretty close to perfect.

Davidsonian: What do you believe arethe biggest problems with the alcohol policy?

Holmes: Aside from a perception that it is doing more than it is, I don’t think that there is any
one or two that stand out. I think the perception with the students right now is that the policy is
trying to make the campus dry and in no way is that true. But, that can lead to a lot
of antagonistic stances between the way people think it's going and the way some of us who are working with
it are trying to operate. Problems? There is probably a lot of inequity between how closed house parties, open keg
parties, and BYOB’s are dealt with. I think right now there are so many varieties of parties out there that
there are parties where you could argue you get away with more. I’d hate to think of one house pitted
against another saying ‘They’re getting away with something that we’re not allowed to,’ or ‘We're being hammered when they’re being
let go.’ I think it's really just an issue of types of parties. We’re getting there and we’ll get those
inconsistencies worked out. The other problem is the perceptions of student monitors by the student body. That’s a real problem
because the way to make this work is to let the students have control of the system. If they don’t
have the authority, the responsibility, and the autonomy to control their own lives as a student body, then we’re mitigating
and taking away a lot of what a college is supposed to do. I would much prefer to have all
student monitors, but we know that puts too much pressure on students to cite their peers, so we have to
have this mix. I’d hate to go to all officers, because students wouldn’t feel comfortable in that position.

Davidsonian: Any other comments about the alcohol policy?

Holmes: As much as I complain about having talked about it for three weeks straight, I’ve said to Patterson Court
and really to any student group or the campus in general that I’m available. If a house wants to have
me down for dinner or post-dinner some evening to talk about it or to get my perceptions of it, those
are the kinds of things I’d like to do or need to do so that we are all working on
the same wavelength. I’ve suggested to a couple of people that maybe we need to do something along the lines
of a fireside-chat on a bigger scale or forums of some sort. Really we need to do some sort of
information sharing. The door is open if people have questions.

Continued from page 3

Thanks also to Jerry Blackstock ’66 and Dr. C.G. Davidson ’28, College archivist.

Professors Continued from page 4

students back with her this summer. “I am delighted to be here. I am looking forward to the small, personal
classes and educating undergraduates.”

Coursen Continued from page 1

Coursen asserted. Other components of the accord failed, especially under the country’s military umbrella. In fact, Coursen fears that the
greatest threat to a continuing peace process is the military. They “don’t like the peace accords [and] may even be
plotting a coup d’etat.” The immediate danger lies in a growing “dirty war” where death squadrons are becoming common aggressors.
Coursen reminded the audience that the government signed the agreement with the FMLN, ignoring the military and landowning private sector.
The exclusion of these two important groups within El Salvador’s polarized society severely limits any hopes for further peace initiatives.
The FMLN will next attempt to earn basic human rights within such a tense setting. Returning to Central America in
October, Derek Coursen hopes to monitor El Salvador’s progress from his mission seat in Guatemala.

MC Landlord RULES!!! (If he would only paint our house!!)

WHILE TRYING TO GET HOME, Baniy’s PIZZA COOLED, HIS DRIVER'S LICENSE EXPIRED AND HIS FRIENDS GRADUATED

Call Us! 896-8007

Shops On The Green

Hours: 4:00 pm - 12 Midnight Sunday-Thursday
4:00 pm - 1:00 am Friday-Saturday

CLIP AND SAVE THESE VALUABLE COUPONS

Buy Any Large Pizza For The Price Of A Small...

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable.
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late
deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

Expires 9/28/92

LATE NITE SPECIAL (AUGUST-SEPTEMBER)
Sun.-Thur. 10-11:30 pm;
Fri.-Sat. 10 pm-12:30 am

Two 12 Oz. Cokes Plus Large One Topping Pizza $6.49 plus tax

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable.
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late
deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

Limited Time Offer

Cash Value 1/20¢
