18

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

Women's Basketball Hits Skids After 2 Game Win Streak

By Jennifer Roos

After beating Washington & Lee and Brevard, Davidson dropped its next two games to NAIA power Pfeiffer College and Meredith
College. Davidson faced a strong perimeter shooting team against Pfeiffer last Monday in Misenheimer.

Arriving only thirty minutes before the game, Davidson had trouble matching Pfeiffer’s shooting success in the first half. Davidson trailed
by as many as ten in the first half, but cut the lead down to four by halftime.

Pfeiffer opened the second half with a press and gained several transition baskets. Their lead quickly increased to double digits,
and Davidson failed to cut into that margin. Davidson’s outside shooting became ice cold throughout the second half except for
freshman Betsy “L.A.” Jones. She came off the bench late in the second half and buried a long-range two-pointer, then
sank a three-point shot and drew the foul to complete a four-point play.

Coach Filar said, “It was a combination of things. We had a let-down and got cold, while Pfeiffer became really
hot.”

Davidson faced Meredith College on Saturday and delivered one of their best efforts of the season in front of another
strong crowd. Earlier, in a scrimmage against Meredith, Davidson lost by forty-two points.

The outcome would not be the same in Belk Arena. Davidson came out aggressively and took control early, and led
by as many as twelve in the first half. Meredith scored only four points in the first eight minutes of
the game. The Wildcats started to cool off after Meredith dropped into a one-two-two match-up zone defense. At halftime, Davidson
led by two points, 28-26. Meredith came out in the second half to score the first three baskets. Meredith and
Davidson traded baskets for most of the second half until Davidson went scoreless for two minutes. Davidson made another run
at Meredith behind the strong inside play of Faison Nuckolls, who finished the game with twenty-seven points, and outside shooting
from Kristin Solsrud, who nailed a three-point shot to cut the lead to three and finished with fourteen points. But
the ‘Cats were forced to foul and sent Meredith to the foul line, where they converted seven of eight foul
shots. Meredith protected their slim lead and held on to win by eight points, 70-62. Skye Macleod and Jennifer Roos
each chipped in with eight points.

Coach Filar said, “This was a great indication of how much we have improved in the past three weeks. It
was a thirty-four point turnaround. We wanted a maximum effort and enthusiasm, and it showed at the end by our
hustle. We handled the end of the game situation really well. I am very anxious for our following games.”

Swim Teams Top Sewanee as Cannon Pool is Dedicated

By Chris Hood

Davidson’s men’s and women’s swimming and diving squads celebrated the dedication of Charles A. Cannon Pool Saturday by defeating the
University of the South by scores of 58-53 and 66-40, respectively.

Both squads dropped contests to Georgia Southern, 102-10 and 84-29; the men stood at 1-6 while the women improved to
3-5 heading into meets against UNC Wilmington at home Sunday afternoon.

In Saturday’s action, Hayler Osborn set a school record of 1:03.88 in winning the 100-yard breaststroke. Dan Bahmiller’s 52.5 and
Captain Todd Newnam’s 2:14.3 captured the 100 freestyle and 200 individual medley events.

For the women, captain Amy Laukkanen reigned in the 200 individual medley and the 100 backstroke, and she was a
member of the victorious 200 freestyle medley team.

Kristie Moss won the 1000 freestyle with a time of 13:14.3, and Rebecca Falkenburg, returning from an injury, took the
100 freestyle crown at 1:04.5.

“We expected to do well, but the Sewanee meet could have gone either way,” explained Davidson head coach Ron Morrow.
“The kids really pulled through.”

Morrow was most pleased with the men’s victory in the final event, the 200 freestyle medley, which gave the ‘Cats
the triumph over the Tigers.

Looking ahead, the ‘Cats have this weekend off before returning to action February 8 at home against Florida A&M. Davidson
hosts the Southern States Swimming and Diving Championships February 14-16.

Saturday morning began with an alumni swim meet, honoring those who competed for Davidson between 1941-1982. Over 30 individuals participated,
including Pat Miller, Davidson’s coach before the sport was dropped after the 1982 season.

Newnam, who spoke on behalf of the teams at the dedication, is convinced that Davidson’s new facility has had an
extremely positive impact on the program. “It’s a definite boost. Seeing the pool right away after walking into Baker... really
makes you energetic about the team,” he said.

Morrow also praised the addition of Cannon Pool. “It’s very easy to get other schools to come here because the
pool is so nice. It also helps recruiting; a prospective freshman who sees the pool upon entering Baker Sports Complex
has to be impressed with Cannon.”

DAVIDSON RUGBY FOOTBALL

invites all interested students and staff to learn how to play rugby. Practices are held Tuesday & Thursday at 4:00
pm and Sunday at 2:00 pm on the upper IMAC fields. For information, contact Tim Harris x6834.
