THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

WIRE!

Progressive Fraternity Gathers New Members

PHOENIX (CPS) - Delta Lambda Phi, a fraternity that declares itself open to men of all sexual orientations, recently started a chapter at the University of Arizona. About a dozen students have joined the fraternity, which has chapters at 24 other U.S. campuses. Donald D. DeCarlo, a pre-med senior and president of Delta Lambda Phi, started the fraternity after he was asked to leave two other fraternities at the University of Arizona. DeCarlo says that the new fraternity will have songs, colors, pledges, and secrets just like other fraternities. The only difference, he says, is that the club is open to all men, regardless of sexual orientation.

Overbilling Probe Widens To Include MIT

(CPS) - The federal government has announced that it has officially widened its research overbilling investigation to include the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in addition to Stanford University. Now, three federal agencies say they also are working together in investigations of 14 other schools that they claim improperly billed the government for indirect costs associated with research. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, an auditor has checked research-related expenses at the following schools: Yale University, Dartmouth College, the University of Michigan, the University of Pennsylvania, Emory University, Johns Hopkins University, the University of Pittsburgh, the University of Southern California, the University of Texas, Washington University, Duke University, Rutgers University, the University of Chicago, and the University of Miami. Several other institutions are reportedly under investigation as well.

Asian Calendar Seeks To Break Beauty Stereotypes

SAN FRANCISCO (CPS) - A professor at San Francisco State University, creator of the Asian Pacific Islander Men Calendar, charges that conventional standards of beauty ingrained in American society often exclude ethnic diversity. Antonio DeCastro says that Asian males are often stereotypically portrayed in the media as wimpy geeks, evil villains, or dominating husbands. The calendar, he notes, reaffirms the Asian male’s physical attractiveness and sexuality. The 1991 calendar, termed "political beefcake" by The Seattle Times, has caught the attention of the media throughout the country, with stories in the Los Angeles Times and Chicago Tribune.

SGA CATEGORY ONE ELECTIONS
Vote on Tuesday — 9-3 PM
In Chambers and Union Pit

NCAA Approves More Academic Reforms

ANAHEIM, Calif. (CPS) - Academic eligibility standards for freshman athletes will be even tougher beginning in 1995. The change is one of many approved by the National Collegiate Athletic Association at its 1992 annual convention. The new academic requirement involves increasing an incoming student athlete’s minimum grade point average to 2.5 in 13 core curriculum courses and establishing a sliding scale that balances a student’s standardized test scores with his or her grade average. For example, the scale would allow an athlete with a 2.0 to compete if he or she scored a minimum of 900 on the SAT or 21 on the ACT. If the student has less than a 2.0 grade point or scores less than 700 on the SAT or 17 on the ACT, he or she would not be eligible to play sports. Previously, Proposition 48 stated that athletes must have a minimum 700 on the SAT or 18 on the ACT with a minimum 2.0 grade point in 11 core curriculum courses. No sliding scale existed.

Coaches of the Big East Conference had the most vocal opposition to the new rule, primarily because of a continued complaint against using standardized test scores as an eligibility cut-off device. The NCAA President’s Commission drafted the newly approved academic package. “About six years ago when Propositions 48 and 42 were approved, it was the beginning of academic reform (in the NCAA),” says Rick Evrard, director of legislative services at the NCAA. “This is just a continuation.”

Other propositions approved at the NCAA convention include:
-- Allowing student athletes to request information about their potential in the professional sports market without losing eligibility - as long as the student does not retain an agent. The proposal was designed to help students deal with the business aspect of becoming a professional athlete by allowing them to seek“Job advice” like other students. Student athletes, however, cannot enter the NBA or NFL draft and retain eligibility. The Pacific-10 Conference opposed the proposition, fearing that institutions might be held liable if an athlete says he or she received bad advice from his or her university.

--Allowing coaches of major sports powerhouses to continue collecting money for product endorsements and television appearances, but requiring them to seek permission from the school’s presidents to do so.

--Giving Division I basketball teams more leeway for playing in exhibition games during the Thanksgiving holiday.

The NCAA voted against a measure to create a new football division, Division I-AAA, for smaller Division I schools. And, the full NCAA membership agreed to officially oppose a federal mandate written into the pending Higher Education Reauthorization Act that requires the public disclosure of athletics-related revenue and expenditures at schools. At the close of the convention, most said they were satisfied with the outcome.

“The 1992 NCAA convention has proved to be one of the most significant in recent memory,” Creed Black, of the Knight Foundation Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, said in a prepared statement. “It has reaffirmed the commitment of university presidents and athletic administrators to the integrity of intercollegiate sports and to the academic well-being of the student-athlete.”

International Students Recognized in New Who's Who Publication
By Tom Koonce

Three Davidson students were recently listed in the third edition of the nationwide publication of Who's Who Among International Students In American Universities & Colleges, for outstanding international students attending institutions of higher learning in America. The students are Girish Gvalani, Mika Nabeshima, and Anjali Sharma. These students were selected on the basis of their high academic and personal achievements. International students who wish to be considered for the 4th edition should contact the foreign student office for application forms.

Krawciw Continued from page 1

The new Ukrainian government will treat the nuclear issue with utmost caution, due to the ever-present memories of Chernobyl. Krawciw added that the weight of the nuclear issue demands a timely Western alliance with Russia and Ukraine. In light of the international cooperation proven effective during the Gulf War, Krawciw is optimistic that an alliance can indeed be formed. General Krawciw will have a chance to personally influence reforms in Ukraine when he leaves this Spring for a conference in Geneva to begin discussing strategic options for the new Ukrainian military. The Ukrainian army, he said, felt the split from the Soviet Union much more powerfully than did the Ukrainian citizens and faces a great challenge in redefining its military purpose. Krawciw, along with twenty-four chosen assistants, will play a major role in redirecting the Ukrainian forces. The military has already received over $500 million from the Swiss government for its strategic campaign. General Krawciw hopes to raise another million dollars in the United States before he leaves for Geneva.

Continued from page 1

In the top of their class, with CAT scores in the 91-99 percentile range and taking academically gifted classes. Five other students are ones who may appear unsuccessful in school, that is those who have grades and CAT scores which have been inconsistent from quarter to quarter. The remaining twenty students are in the middle range of their class with at least one score of 85 percentile on some portion of the CAT and academic grades that range from A to C. Prem Manjooran, a Davidson College Senior and Love of Learning Counselor said, “The net result (of Love of Learning) is a more aware and qualified classroom candidate, and a student that can effectively compete on merit alone, for those precious few seats in demanding and competitive colleges in the country.” The summer portion of the Love of Learning Program for 1992 will be June 28th until July 25th. Tapia expects ninety rising tenth, eleventh, and twelfth graders. If you have questions or desire further information concerning the program, you can call Brenda Tapia at (704) 892-2452 or 892-2614.

JOB OPPORTUNITY!

Counselor-mentors needed for Love of Learning Program. A general meeting will be held on Tuesday, January 28, at 7:30 pm in the Morrison Room. All interested students are invited to attend.