THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

Pithy Irreverence... Ho, Ho, Ho?

Dear Santa,

I realize the North Pole post office is flooded with millions of letters from kids all over the world about
this time of year, all addressed to “Mr. Claus.” But this one’s different. This isn’t one of the greedy “Gimme”
letters you usually get. I’m concerned. This whole “Xmas” deal has gotten way out of hand.

The other night I saw Nippy and Chilly and a couple of other elves putting up the fake pine wreaths
with accompanying electric candles on the telephone poles on Main Street. I shivered and turned my back to the balmy
wind sweeping across the Piedmont. “Seasons Greetings,” it says on the banners they hung at the plaza in Cornelius. Which
season would that be? Late fall?

I know the elves are getting a little itchy this time of year, having finished tacking together all the toys
and gotten them wrapped and ready for The Big Eve. I imagine there’s nothing worse than idle, bored elves. They’re
probably into the eggnog and flirting with Missus Claus, tying the reindeers’ antlers together, and going for joyrides in the
sleigh. So it’s perfectly understandable that you’d try to occupy their time by having them help with publicity.

I realize the need for advertising. Without all the decorations and reminders, people might forget about Christmas entirely. And those
“Sorry I forgot your Christmas...” cards are so hard to find. But here’s a better idea: get the delinquent elves
to go around and collect all the ridiculous Christmas crap. Away with the fiberglass Frostys. Rip down all those red,
green, orange, and purply lights that garnish the neighborhood houses, making our streets look like runways. Confiscate those big plastic
mechanized replicas of you and the reindeer that adorn the center of every mall. All I’m asking is, hold the
kitsch. Tinsel sucks. Bring back the real spirit of Christmas.

Now to the important part: what I want (OK, I lied. This is one of those “gimme” letters after all.
But hey, I want to do away with all the cheesy stuff, not the gifts. I’m a firm believer in
the Season of Getting.) Since I already have my two front teeth, I would like:

1. A little snow. Just enough to cover the ground and make everything look all winter-wonderlandy. Of course, here at
our pristine college, any snow would probably be collected immediately and put with all the leaves.
2. A babe
3. A well-researched, well-written Honors Thesis
4. My very own still
5. I’m not clear on this, but can we defer presents? If so, I could use a really great, interesting,
very high-paying job in about six months.

Now, if you’ve been making a list and checking it twice, you know I haven’t been a very good boy
this year. Can’t you cut me some slack? I can make up good excuses. But if it must be coal,
make it the very old, crushed-under-extreme-pressure kind that sparkles.

Thanks, Santa. The cookies’ll be on the end table near the La-Z-Boy.

Love,
Sean

Davidson

In Belfast... Bomb Explodes in South Belfast

By Rob Kelly

When I first came to Davidson three years ago, I imagined a small, regional liberal arts college where I and
those like me could study literature in relative seclusion from the outside world. I did not expect to be bothered.
Yet, before long I was bumping into people who had traveled to all the different parts of the globe. Not
only was Europe represented, but also Asia, South America, Australia, and Africa. In my first year I met one student
who’d just returned from Argentina, another from Nepal, a third from Australia, and a fourth from Brazil. In the next
year I watched people depart for India and England, Russia and Greece. I began to envy and also wonder what
was happening in these places?

Davidson’s students who travel abroad are still Davidson students; the places they travel to simply become outposts for Davidson. And
why shouldn’t all Davidson students know what’s happening on their Spanish campus, their French campus, their German campus, and so
on? Soon I was dreaming of traveling abroad myself (somewhere innocuous, somewhere safe) and maybe attempting correspondence back home...

Three years later, I am in Belfast, North Ireland, concentrating on English and Irish Studies. I am due to spend
a year here, and through the course of this year — if my tender editor allows it — I will
be updating you on the events taking place on our Belfast campus (cut into the woods behind PhiDelt, continue three
thousand miles — bring boots). In addition to the weekly news, I also hope to provide some much-neglected background information
on this region, including physical geography, ethnography, and the history which predates the situation of today. Unfortunately, first things first...

On September 23 at 8:45 P.M., a massive 2000 lb. bomb exploded in South Belfast, devastating an entire city block
and sending shock waves as far as ten miles away. It effectively wrecked its target, the Government Forensics Science Laboratory.
Although killing no one, the blast injured twenty-three people. The bomb has been attributed to the Irish Republican Army, an
independent parliamentary organization opposed to British rule in Ireland. The GFSL analyzed evidence gathered for court cases. The blast is
the largest in the recent history of Belfast and was felt by most of the city. I was three miles
away at the time, lounging in the student union, and I felt the walls rumble around me. Another student, located
closer to the blast, was thrown through the front door of his dorm’s laundry shack.

The effects were greatest, however, in Belvoir Park Estate, the residential district adjacent to the lab. There, multi-storied flats had
their front walls blown in. One of the residents, Linda Taylor, spoke to the Belfast Telegraph: “I was just sitting
watching television... and my twelve-year-old daughter, Emma, was sitting at my feet. The next thing all hell seemed to break
loose. The window came in and I threw myself on top of her...” Patrick McAtter, another resident, was amazed: “All
the bedrooms in the flats faced toward the bomb and they are full of lethal, long slivers of glass.” Josephine
Smith, who is in her 80s, concurs. “My son Fred who lives on the tenth floor had just moved away
from the window where the pane of glass fell just where his head had been.”

Rescue and repair teams moved in quickly to aid those areas worst hit, with representatives from local churches helping out.
At last check, officials were unsure of the damage to the FSL. Although larger bombs have been laid in the
past, each was found and dismantled before detonation. The 2000 lb. blast represents the largest to hit Belfast since the
new Troubles began.

Nest Continued from page 7

Philadelphia sticker on the back of a car with Georgia plates. I don’t know why anyone would admit to having
visited there, but it was cool to see my hometown on a car. I’ve also seen quite a few “Atlanta
Braves” stickers, and even one “Blue Jays.” There is truly a sticker for everyone. The war of words will continue
on my little Escort. In addition to the Davidson sticker I put over my “Buchanan for President,” I have room
for several more. Bumper stickers are uniquely American. You never see Iraqis with “Saddam is Sexy” on the back of
their cars. We are obnoxious people, but proud and secure enough to open ourselves up for personal attack by advertising
our beliefs. Anyway, if someone threatens me, I’ll honk at them.

Rules Continued from page 8

book that listed how far 3.14 was carried out. Of course, it never stops so how did he decide when
to stop? I can see him agonizing over what to do. “Do I stop at 100,989,283,292 decimal places or 100,989,283,293
decimal places?” God, what a horror. Well, actually that’s not scary, it’s just a stupid waste of time. Anyway, I’m
just trying to say that people are afraid of ridiculous things. Which is fine as long as they remember to
soak their ear lobes in lemon juice for six minutes every time something frightens them.

“Kill, kill, kill...”

Quote of the Week

The former Soviet Union is "the single largest source of threats to the vital interests of the United States."
-Graham Allison
Douglas Dillon Professor of Government and SDI Director, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University during the Conference on
the Post-Cold War World held this past week at Davidson.

Campus Bulletin

The 3rd Annual Bone Marrow Drive will be held Wednesday, November 18 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the
Morrison Room of the College Union. Freshmen halls that have 100% participation in the Bone Marrow Drive will be entered
into a drawing for a VCR.

A meeting for those interested in being Counselor-Mentors for the Love of Learning Program this summer will not be held
on November 30. Instead, it will be held on January 18 in the Chambers Gallery.
