THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992

3 years and older.” In another change from the earlier draft, which said students must vacate the Patterson Court parties by a certain time, this policy states, “Students may remain and socialize and have music as long as a monitor remains until the party is over.” Another new provision states, “No alcohol may be served after midnight and all alcohol must be disposed of by 12:30.”

Alcohol Continued from page 1

tives of Dean Terry’s proposal.” The SGA’s ad-hoc committee on the alcohol policy recently released their recommendations for the new proposal. Copies of these recommendations were handed out to students who attended the forum weekday parties.” For weekend parties, alcohol service must stop at 1:30 and all alcohol must be disposed of by 2:00 a.m.

A key element of this new policy has yet to be worked out. Much of the enforcement of this new policy would be up to designated ‘monitors,’ not police, which would be present at any Patterson Court party. Dean Terry is uncertain as to who the monitors would be, their specific role as enforcers, and what sort of compensation they would receive for their work. These ‘monitors’ would report violations of the policy to an Alcohol Enforcement Committee composed of five members: an administrator (the Dean of Students or his designate), a faculty member from a pool of five appointed by the President, and three students from a pool of eighteen appointed by the PCC and SGA. This committee would handle all violations of the Davidson College alcohol policy. The policy also calls for the committee to report its decisions on a monthly basis in The Davidsonian.

Davidson College did not have an alcohol policy until 1988, but drafted one in that year because of the change in the state drinking age. Since then the climate in the Trustees and faculty has changed because of increasing evidence of alcohol abuse on campus. The second draft lists eight actions that need to be taken “to change both the drinking patterns and the social milieu.” They are:

1) Baker Sports Complex should remain open (including the equipment room) from 7 a.m. until 12 midnight seven days a week. There should be provisions for planned activities at the sports complex on a regular basis.
2) The 900 Room should provide a relaxed, creative recreational atmosphere for snacks as well as drinks. The hours

Smith Continued from page 1

made by students in the past couple of weeks. While the basic tenets of the policy remain unchanged, there are several significant differences in this newer version. The most significant change is that under the Section VI, “Regulation on Patterson Court,” this policy explicitly states, “Consumption of alcohol is limited to students twenty-one years and older.”

As Union director, Smith received the Alumni Service Medal, where, at the award ceremonies, college officials said of his ability to “use a light touch to get to serious things,” that he was able to give students something extra. Smith said in a 1990 interview with the Davidson Journal, “I always wanted to do something for students. I just didn’t know what would come of it. I really enjoyed not having to discipline and not having to give grades.” Smith often said of the students of the Union, “coming to the Union for a burger and having a life-changing experience. Looking for a bridge partner and finding a partner for life.”

Smith received a master’s degree from UNC-Chapel Hill, and was past president of the Association of College Unions-International who, in turn, awarded him with its highest honor, the Butts-Whiting Award. Memorials may be made to Davidson College, P.O. Box 1072, Davidson, N.C. 28036; Davidson College Presbyterian Church, P.O. Box 337, Davidson, N.C. 28036; or to Habitat for Humanity, 425 E. 17th St., P.O. Box 34397, Charlotte, N.C. 28234.

Take Back Continued from page 1

assaulted or knew someone who had been assaulted tied a blue ribbon on a tree in the lobby. Over half of the audience, including students, faculty and staff, men and women, walked through darker areas of campus in the pouring rain. Their action proved their commitment to stopping sexual assault. It symbolically reclaimed safety and control in areas traditionally perceived as dangerous.

Jennifer Holladay, one of the event organizers, was pleased by the number of men attending the rally. She believes that their presence displayed the “changing depth of understanding within the male community” at Davidson. Tavernise was encouraged by the sincerity of the audience and the courage of the speakers. She cautioned that “while we recognize and support those women who have been able to speak, let us not forget those who remain nameless, faceless, and silent.”

SGA Continued from page 2

stated that the investigation was long overdue, and that minorities on campus need better representation. The committee has since dissolved, and the recommendations are pending approval of President Kuykendall.For this service should be kept sacrosanct. 3) The dining service should provide regular hours late at night in the Vail Commons from 12-2 a.m. each night. 4) The College Union should be open twenty-four hours a day with limited Snack Bar service until 2 a.m. 5) Immediate attention should be given to building a College Union or the renovation of Johnston to provide a more appealing social life for students. 6) A study of Davidson’s social patterns and habits, the relationship between drinking habits and academic and co-curricular performances, and a strategy for changing the cultural norms of the community should be undertaken by “experts.” 7) The college’s social program needs to take into account the spontaneous nature of students’ search for activities and social expression. 8) The creation of a joint planning committee, composed of the Union Board and Patterson Court social chairmen to plan campus-wide events, needs to be organized. Copies of the 9-page document can be obtained in the Dean of Students’ Office.

Academic Dishonesty: A Sign of the Times?
(CPS) By Karen Neustadt

Fierce competition for jobs and higher grades and poor leadership models have created a fertile climate for cheating, say college and university officials who are grappling with new ways to deal with an old problem. Worried educators say some of today’s college students, exposed to a painful recession in a get-rich-quick society and numbed by scandals such as congressional check-bouncing, are asking themselves: What’s wrong with cheating?

“One of the reasons that (cheating is) increasing is the perception that the students’ future job opportunities are closely linked to how well they perform in terms of grades,” said Robert Dorff, faculty senate chairman at North Carolina State University. “When pressure mounts, some feel that pressure and respond by cheating,” he said, adding that today’s faculty members are being urged to be more creative with testing procedures to make cheating “less enticing.”

Not only is academic dishonesty growing, but there is more discussion about it than ever before. “Both of these forces are coming together and making it a more apparent problem,” Dorff said.

One New Jersey student doesn’t see cheating as a problem. In fact, he’s making a tidy profit off of the current GPA paranoia. Michael Moore, a Rutgers University journalism student, recently raised eyebrows with his 86-page book, titled “Cheating 101: The Benefits and Fundamentals of Earning the Easy ‘A’,” that details methods of cheating, including hiding notes in the holes of torn jeans and using foot signals to convey answers on multiple-choice questions. Moore reported, in an article in “Campus Crime” (January 1992), that he has sold 1,750 copies of his book ($6 each) to students at Rutgers, the University of Maryland, and Ohio State University.

Some professors say Moore’s blatant effort to promote deceit has brought cheating, often an unspoken, seldom-addressed problem, into the light. Educators often refuse to admit the amount of cheating that may be going on in their classes, said one source, and may not want to know the hard facts. In 1987 and 1988, the American Council on Education, in conjunction with the University of California at Los Angeles, asked students about their cheating habits in a comprehensive survey, “The American Freshman.” About 37 percent of the students surveyed in the fall of 1988 said they had cheated on a test in high school, an increase from about 30 percent the year before. About 57 percent said they had copied another student’s work, while about 52 percent admitted doing so the year before. That was the last year any reference to cheating was included in the survey. “We don’t plan on bringing them up (the questions) again,” said Ellen Riggs, a researcher with the Higher Education Research Center at UCLA. “The general reaction from the schools was not the most positive. Some advised students not to answer the questions.”

Michael Moffatt, associate professor of anthropology at Rutgers University, said his intensive study of cheating left him shocked and “in a funk.” He said he received only a lukewarm response from his colleagues. “I found that 33 percent (of students) had been involved in considerable cheating. That means cheating in three to 25 courses with an average of eight courses, and 22 percent had never cheated in college. The ‘in-betweens’ cheated once or twice,” said Moffatt.

See "Cheating” on page 5

FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM
$1000 for your fraternity, sorority, team, or other organization. Plus receive a $1000 bonus for yourself! And a FREE WATCH, just for calling. Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 65

Fountain Plaza, Hwy. 7
LAKE NORMAN'S PREMIERE OPTICAL BOUTIQUE.
ON EDWARD R. STU KBAUE FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
3 W., Cornelius 892-9147
SITE LABORATORY