“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992 NUMBER 16

Photo By Lilian Roe

Krawciw Discusses Ukraine's History
By Ted Richardson

Retired U.S. Army Major General Nicholas Krawciw visited the Davidson campus this past weekend. He spoke to faculty and students
at the Carolina Inn on Thursday evening and was the Guest of Honor at the ROTC Military Ball Friday night.
General Krawciw is presently serving as a consultant to the new independent Ukrainian Republic. Krawciw himself is a native of
Ukraine, though his family moved from there when he was only four years old.

A majority of the General’s talk Thursday centered on the tumultuous history of Ukraine, a region which has continually striven
for its independence from the Soviet Union. Besides a brief period of independence following the First World War, Ukraine has
been forcibly annexed to Russia for over three hundred years. This, however, changed dramatically with the August 24 coup against
Soviet occupation of Ukraine. The Ukrainian coup coincided with a general meltdown of the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe, a
series of momentous events which General Krawciw sees as “establishing a brand new geo-political reality.” What will become of this
new reality, according to Krawciw, is quite uncertain. Ukraine, no less than any of the other liberated republics in Eastern
Europe, is in dire need of financial assistance.

Krawciw posed the question to his audience Thursday, “Will there be a new Marshall Plan?” Krawciw assured that “You can
expect Ukraine to lean West” in its plea for monetary aid. The possibility that Ukraine might sell its military hardware
to raise money concerns Krawciw, especially the thought of an open sale of nuclear arms. However, the General believes strongly
that the See "Krawciw" on page 2

Towns in North Mecklenburg Debate Over Public Libraries
By Susan Sheffield

Cornelius, Huntersville, and Davidson are concerned over the fate of their branch libraries. The Public Library Board of Mecklenburg County
proposed a new regional library be built in order to provide better services and easier accessibility for the entire North
Mecklenburg Area. The location would be next to the mall that is being built beside the Northcross community between Cornelius
and Huntersville on Sam Furr Road. The land is a donation by Crosland-Erwin Associates, developers of Northcross.

On January 16, a public meeting was held to calm some of the outrage that has been generated. Every group
in the community was represented, even schoolchildren, who spoke on behalf of their library. The main concern was that the
collections in all the branches would be reduced to virtually nothing, which would render them useless to their patrons and
probably result in the discontinuing of the branch facilities. For example, the Davidson library is the most used branch in
the county per capita, but with relocation of the books, daycares, the elderly, and schoolchildren would not be within walking
distance as they are now.

The Library Board has met to assess the community opinion and has come up with some recommendations for the County
Council. One is that the collections See "Library" on page 2

SGA Category One Elections To Be Held Tuesday
By Tom Koonce

On Tuesday, January 28, Category One elections will be held for Student Government Association President and Vice-President, Union President and
Vice-Presidents, and the Honor Council positions of Student Solicitor and Defense Advisor. The candidates for SGA President are Laura Cunningham,
Anthony Foxx, and Dave Tonidandel. The presidential candidates' speeches and responses to questions asked during this past Thursday’s forum with
the Davidsonian are on pages 4-5 of this issue.

The SGA Vice-Presidential candidates are Alden Smith, Andrew Spainhour, and Steven Summers. See pages 5-7 for their speeches and responses.
The Union Presidential candidates are Jessica Reinertsen, Ann Todd, and Beth Willard. Their speeches and responses to questions are on
pages 7 and 10. The candidates for social Union Vice-President are Merrill Earnest and Meg Jones. The co-curricular Union Vice-President
candidates are Jason Bradley and Kristen Stricker. The Honor Council Student Solicitor isresponsible for investigating cases where there is a
possible infraction. If they find sufficient evidence, a charge is filed and, if necessary, they present the case to the
Honor Council. This year there are two pairs of candidates running for Student Solicitor. Deidra Montague and Tom Price are
running against Stancel Riley and John Rowe. The Honor Council Defense Advisor is responsible for aiding an accused student throughout
the disciplinary process. There are

See "Elections" on page 3

Reunion Aids Students, Parents

By Phelps Sprinkle

This past Saturday, January 25, all four previous classes of the Love of Learning Program convened with their parents on
the Davidson College campus for the 1st Academic Year Follow-Up Activity of 1992. Students attended English workshops, while their parents
attended workshops covering topics designed to further enhance their abilities to assist in their children’s total educational development. The Love
of Learning Program, after the recruitment of its sixth class, will have served a total of one hundred seventy-nine students.

The Love of Learning Program began in 1987 with the purpose of increasing the number of black students who succeed
in higher education. The program is composed of students beginning their ninth grade year, through those who are rising college
freshmen. Those students in high school participate in an intensive four-week summer program, in which they live, learn, play and
study on the Davidson College campus.

“The program is geared toward education of the whole person, and therefore concentrates on the student’s growth, the parent’s responsibilities,
the learning environment, and the involvement of the community. Love of Learning tries to instill its students with intellectual, spiritual,
and physical pride and well-being. Intellectually, the student is taught test-taking strategies, mastery of academic skills, and preparation for college.
Spiritually, the student is exposed to activities promoting leadership, self-discovery, awareness of God, responsibility, citizenship, persistence and service. Physically, the
student learns a fitness program and works on skill development in a sport.

Brenda Tapia, Director of the Love of Learning Program, explained that of the thirty students chosen each year, five students
are

See “Learning” on page 2

Nominations Being Taken For Hunter-Hamilton Teaching Award

By Tom Price

The Hunter-Hamilton Love of Teaching Award will be presented to a faculty member for the first time this year. The
recipient will receive a $10,000 cash prize, $5,000 of which will be given to a Davidson department or program of
the winner’s choice. The remaining $5,000 will go directly to the winning professor. The Hunter-Hamilton award was established by James
P. Hamilton and his wife, Grey Hunter Hamilton, in memory of their respective parents. Nominations for the annual award are
being taken from peers, students, or alumni. The winner will be chosen by a faculty committee.

In order to be eligible the professor must be a full-time faculty member who has taught at Davidson for a
minimum of five years. The award established the following guidelines for any nominee. The recipient will:

1) have established a record of contagious enthusiasm for classroom teaching and tutelage.
2) be dedicated and patient with students, with service to them being the highest priority.
3) be able to clarify complex matters for students.
4) have the ability to stimulate extraordinary accomplishments of students, including those with average abilities as well as those of
exceptional capabilities.
5) be able to build self-esteem and self-reliance and instill in students a desire to learn.
6) treat students with due dignity and respect as impressionable persons with individual hopes, fears, pains, and histories, making efforts
to know them by name.

The deadline for nominations that meet the criteria above is March 25, 1992. Letters should be addressed to: Chair, Hunter-Hamilton
Selection Committee, c/o Professor John Kelton, Davidson College, P.O. Box 1689, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

INSIDE

NEWS:
Transcripts of candidate forum. See pages 4-7.
NCAA approves academic reforms. See page 2.

OPINIONS:
Palmer refutes allegations in Questionin' That. See page 8.

DAVIDSON ARTS:
Steven Wright to appear Friday. See page 11.

SPORTS:
Davidson may host NCAA soccer Final Four. See page 17.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
