NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1992 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Complaints Silence Bells

DURHAM, N.H. (CPS) - Bells that have chimed for decades on the University of New Hampshire campus have been silenced
because of complaints about the volume, the time of concerts, and because some of the music is of Christian origin.

Since 1952, a carillon of 246 bells has been played at daily 10-minute concerts in the morning and at lunchtime.
The music includes the New Hampshire hymn and the school alma mater, which is written to the Christian music, “Lead
on, Oh King Eternal.”

Recently the concerts were moved from 8:00 a.m. to 7:45 a.m. because professors said the music interfered with early classes.
The noon concert was moved from 12 to 12:30 p.m. The complaints began with the change of schedule, says a
school spokesman.

University officials are reviewing the complaints. In the meantime, the bells will remain silent for the first time in 40
years.

Low Grades Linked to Heavy Drinkers

WASHINGTON (CPS) - College students with low grades consume an average of 11 alcoholic drinks a week, three times the
amount that honor roll students do, say researchers from two universities.

The study, based on a survey of 56,000 students on 78 campuses during the 1989 school year, also found that
students at smaller schools are drinking more than at larger schools, and that male students are more likely than women
to go on drinking binges.

Students who were getting D’s and F’s were averaging 10.8 drinks a week, while students with A’s were consuming 3.4
drinks.

Researchers from Southern Illinois University and the College of William and Mary in Virginia analyzed the survey results and created
the report, which is intended to assist school officials in designing substance abuse prevention programs.

Researchers found that alcohol, as expected, is the drug of choice: 86 percent of respondents said they used it in
the last year, and 45 percent said they drink on a weekly or more frequent basis.

Twenty-seven percent of students said they smoked pot in the past year, and 6.1 percent said they used cocaine. Other
drugs reported on campus included steroids, opiates, hallucinogens, amphetamines, sedatives, and inhalants.

The most significant result is the link between alcohol and grades, say officials.

Earned Degrees Could Reach Record

WASHINGTON (CPS) - The number of students receiving degrees at colleges and universities could reach an all-time high in most
categories in the 1992-93 school year, the Department of Education said.

At least 490,000 associate degrees are expected to be conferred this year. The estimates, in the department’s annual back-to-school forecast,
include: bachelor’s, 1.13 million; master’s, 345,000; and doctorates, 41,000.

About 75,000 degrees will be awarded to students in medicine, theology, and law schools, the department estimated.

From the Archives: Towner Blickswek

Our Past Relived

Davidson history provides a window to the past, lots of trivia, and an incredibly rich tradition, some of which we
can be proud of, and other parts which may be embarrassing. Yet our past provides us something much more important
to the College, and to the Davidsonian institutions and individuals of both today and tomorrow.

Our history gives us an intimate understanding of today’s issues, and consequently of tomorrow’s possibilities. Today’s situation is the result
of yesterday’s actions and yesterday’s situation, so to really understand the here and now we must look back and see
what precipitated the problem. Otherwise, we can easily forget and repeat the problems we meant to solve.

We find the most pertinent example of a recurring problem in the social life of Davidson, especially Patterson Court. Like
the students of every year since 1836, we complain of a lack of viable social alternatives (although back then they
called it ‘boredom’). Just like the days before 1971 when alcohol became available on campus, we have concerns about unregulated
alcohol consumption in private areas like dorm rooms or off-campus.

Today, like many times since the relatively undisciplined days of the 1840s, the faculty has tried to set down new
rules and regulations to control student abuses and behaviors without providing incentives.and rewards for good behavior. Most importantly, the fraternities
of Davidson have fallen into the same rut they have been stuck in since the sixties, that being a cycle
of reaction to college efforts to solve real or perceived problems in Davidson’s social fabric. Back in the 1960s, fraternities
came under increasing fire for rush and pledging practices and for their social exclusion of a student minority. Their parties
were closed, usually off-campus, and truly the dominant (if not the only) social opportunity on campus. The Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC)
sponsored the big weekends like Mid-winters for all students, but that basically consisted of a big-name concert in the early
evening. Independents had little to do at an 85% Greek all-male school. Several times during the decade the administration and
faculty tried to develop alternative social affiliations for these few independents, but as time went on, they realized their clubs
could simply not compete with fraternities. In the eyes of some faculty and administrators, a fundamental change had to take
place, allowing for “total affiliation” in the words of a 1967 Davidsonian article. By 1971, fraternities were forced by the
College to allow entrance to anyone who wanted membership. Consequently, of the twelve national fraternities, five closed, two moved off-campus,
and a scant four remained. Interestingly, no incentives were ever given to those chapters who gave social opportunities to independents.
Davidson offered nothing except forced compromise. But the moral of this story lies in how the fraternities allowed themselves to
actually get in this fix. When the Trustees reviewed self-selection, they asked the fraternities to give their opinions to the
review committee. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, the chair, and SAE, literally begged that they come and defend
themselves. No one ever stepped forward, and with every attempt at compromise the Trustees saw only an arrogant, self-assured set
of reactionaries unwilling to even attempt change. For example, when the faculty, in 1965, banned pledging for the following year,
the students created “a riot” in the words of President D. Grier Martin. Such actions, rather than moving the Trustees
to the student’s side, moved them to the reproaches mentioned earlier. Today we still suffer from the same reactionary behavior
on the part of the student body, but this time not just fraternity men. However, since fraternities already have

FREE TRAVEL AND RESUME EXPERIENCE! Individuals and Student Organizations wanted to promote SPRING BREAK, call the nation's leader. Inter-Campus Programs
1-800-327-6013.

* EARN EXTRA INCOME * Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to: Travel
INC., P.O. Box 2530, Miami, FL 33161.

Earn Free Spring Break Trips & $2500 Selling Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & Prices!
1-800-678-6386.

GENO’S 1890 HOUSE ITALIAN CUISINE, Hours: W&Th 5-9 Fr&Sat 5-10. 150 S. Broad St., Mooresville. 664-1210. Offer Good Thru Oct.
31. In Appreciation of Your Patronage on Parents’ Weekend, 25% Off All Menu Items with this Coupon and a Student
or Faculty I.D. 15% Off Bud Draft (at Bar only).

GREEKS & CLUBS RAISE A COOL $1000 IN JUST ONE WEEK! PLUS $1000 FOR THE MEMBER WHO CALLS! No obligation.
No cost. You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO.

***HELP WANTED*** Part-Time, Evening, Weekends. Experience Helpful. MAMMA MIA Pizzeria & Ristorante. APPLY IN PERSON. 241 S. Broad St., Mooresville
(Rt. 115).

BOSTON UNIVERSITY LEARN HOW THE WORLD WORKS. Languages, Liberal Arts, Business, and Internships. BEIJING, SYDNEY, MOSCOW, GRENOBLE, LONDON, PARIS, OXFORD,
MADRID, HAIFA, PADOVA, CORDOBA, BUENOS AIRES, WASHINGTON, DC. Boston University, Division of International Programs, 232 Bay State Road, Box Q,
Boston, MA 02216 or call (617) 353-9888.

Name:
Address:
City/State/Zip:
Phone:
University:
Fall O Spring O Summer O 19__
