| THE DAVIDSONIAN » NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 : 3

Beaty Continued from page 1

College where she received membership in Phi Beta Kappa and majored in classical languages. She obtained her doctorate from the
University of North Carolina where she was a Woodrow Wilson and Southern Foundation Fellow. She was a member of the
faculty of Westhampton College of the University of Richmond from 1960 until 1973, where she rose from assistant professor to
chairman of the department of ancient languages.

In 1973 Beaty returned to Davidson to serve as Reference Coordinator for Independent Studies after the college received a $50,000
matching grant from the Council on Library Resources and the National Endowment for the Humanities for the purpose of making
the library a more integral part of the academic experience. Also at Davidson, Beaty headed up the successful United Way
campaign in 1976, followed in her father’s footsteps by writing honorary degree citations for many Davidson honorees, and served as
unofficial calligrapher for the membership diplomas of many Davidson organizations. In her spare time she also taught a Sunday School
class at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

In 1979 Beaty wrote Davidson: A History of the Town from 1835 until 1937. UNC-Chapel Hill Professor of History Emeritus
William S. Powell called it “a model of local history.” For Davidson’s sesquicentennial in 1987 Beaty wrote A History of
Davidson College, an update of the 1923 history written by Davidson’s first librarian Cornelia Rebekah Shaw. For DCPC’s sesquicentennial in
1987 she wrote A History of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

“In each of these works she presented the character as well as the characters which have brought Davidson to its
place in the sun in the 20th century, in each she brought a scholarly insight and loving sensitivity to the
humanness of struggle and accomplishment in building our Davidson—town, college, and church. In each she reminded us of our past
and subtly reminded us of our challenge for the future,” stated Park in the May faculty Resolution.

Beaty also worked with Dr. Benjamin W. Farley on translating Calvin's Ecclesiastical Advice which was published by John Knox Press
last year. Some of her hobbies included painting and playing on her second-hand upright piano. Park wrote in the May
Resolution, “Because you have followed Seneca’s bidding that ‘I am glad to learn in order that I may teach,’ and
because you have so expertly taught us in the library classroom as well as in the scheduled classroom, and because
you have lovingly chronicled our corporate lives in the town and gown, inspiring both our appreciation for things past and
our resolve for things to come, and because you have shown kindness and patience as well as instruction to the
seeker, become an example to others who have burdens to carry, and given exquisite meaning to the term ‘A Daughter
of Davidson,’ we, the Faculty of Davidson College, do now proclaim in your own native tongue, ‘Ave Maria,’ Hail Mary.
Our thanks for your presence among us.”

REACH OUT AT DAVIDSON

Arosa House: The Arosa House service project provides the perfect opportunity to get involved in Reach Out: the time commitment
is minimal and the rewards are great. Arosa House is a home in Charlotte for abused children who have been
taken away from their parents by the courts. Once a month, students spend a Saturday morning working to make Arosa
House a better environment for the children. The volunteers paint rooms, clean the house and yard, and do other odd
jobs. The work done is greatly appreciated by the staff and children. If you are interested, please call Janet (-6836),
Jennifer (-6836), or Rachel.

Pavilion AIDS Project: Help us stop the spread of AIDS! This is the first year of the Davidson AIDS Project,
dedicated to educating the community of Davidson about AIDS and its effect on AIDS patients. While the primary purpose of
the Project is to raise awareness in the community, Davidson AIDS Project will also serve AIDS patients by providing support,
understanding,and compassion for those living with AIDS. Students will have the opportunity to be a buddy for an AIDS victim,
work in a home for women with AIDS, or be a big sister/big brother for a child whose parent has
AIDS. The Project is working closely with Hospice at Charlotte, Metrolina AIDS Project, SHOC, and the Pre-Med Society. There will
be an informational meeting at 8:30 p.m. on Wednesday, September 9, 1992, in the Big Screen Room. For more information
or questions, call Carla (6644) or Daci (6639). Reach Out will feature two of its programs each week in the
Davidsonian.

Presidential Candidate Clinton Stumps in the Piedmont
By Chris Hood

“We're here because we want to pull this country together,” Democratic presidential candidate Bill Clinton told a crowd of 2,500
Tuesday at the Piedmont Triad International Airport in Greensboro. Among those attending were approximately 20 Davidson students, many of whom
are members of the college’s Young Democrats organization. The Arkansas governor used the opportunity to continue focusing on themes such
as the economy, education, the end of the Cold War, and the family. “The American Dream hasn’t failed,” he promised
the crowd, “but (President George) Bush’s policies have, and we’re here to change them.”

On the issue of the economy, Clinton attacked the “trickle-down” theory closely associated with the Bush administration. He stressed the
importance of creating jobs in the private sector and offering incentives such as tax breaks for those willing to invest
in American businesses. Highlighting successes in Germany and Hawaii, Clinton called for the United States “to finally join the ranks
of other industrialized nations of the world and provide affordable health care.”

A large contingent of those present consisted of students from local high schools and colleges. “The doors of education ought
to be open to everyone,” Clinton specifically told this group. Noting the dramatic increase in college costs in recent years,
he highlighted his policy of offering financial aid to all. This assistance could be paid back in the form of
an apprenticeship program or a percentage of income earned after school.

With the widespread fall of communism and the demise of the Cold War, Clinton asserted that it was time to
“put our own people first.” He called for more attention to domestic problems, stating that “most Americans are working harder
for less money than they were 10 years ago.” When Bush supporters in attendance began waving pro-life signs and chanting,
Clinton spoke on the importance of uniting Americans. “We need to work together to decrease the number of abortions through
adoption and education... We can be pro-family and pro-choice,” he assured the crowd.

Clinton also spoke about his vice presidential nominee, Sen. Al Gore, D-Tenn. According to Clinton, Gore’s views prove that “we
can be pro-labor and pro-business. We can be pro-environment and pro-growth.” “This election is about the courage to grasp for
the future against being rooted in the past,” he concluded. “America is a ‘We can’ country, and we can bring
America back.”

Write For News!!

SPRING BREAK '93 - SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski
packages also available. Call 1-800-648-4849.

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

Caroline Lemley, Junior, Davidson College

"AN ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIP PAYS OFF TWICE"

Caroline's four-year Army ROTC Scholarship is paying for most of her Davidson College education. It's worth over $12,000 per year
in tuition, fees, and books. It also provides her $100 a month for personal expenses. But it's paying off even
more with leadership experience and officer credentials impressive to future employers. Caroline is one of many Davidson College students who
have won four-year and three-year Army ROTC scholarships. You can, too! Enroll in MIL 101 "The US Army Today” to
find out if being an officer is right for you. If it is, then go ahead and apply for a
three-year scholarship. You have nothing to lose and a future to gain. Contact Major Mike Hawkins, Belk Hall, Room 2,
892-2165.

ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.
