THE Davidsonian

Tuesday, September 8, 1992

Platform Views | The Abortion Issue

From the Right
John Allen

An opening apology must go out to Bill Clinton for our presentation of his views in the Davidsonian on various
campaign issues as “From the Left” because we all know how hard he has worked to present himself as a
moderate. Fortunately, we Republicans don’t have to worry about such liberal (or should I say moderate, Bill?) issues as women
in combat. The purpose of this column is not to simply list ten reasons not to vote for Clinton, but
to present the Republican stance on various campaign issues. With the help of Sara Carlson, who is writing “From the
Left,” we hope to present several campaign issues that might help you decide which candidate you most agree with.

One issue that received considerable debate in the media at convention time for both parties was the issue of abortion.
Bush’s stance on abortion was pro-life except in cases of incest, rape, or threat to the mother’s life. Clinton’s position
was one supporting abortion on demand. But there is another important area that the candidates disagree on. Presently Bush opposes
the extensive research of fetal organs for medical use in attempting to treat certain diseases. Clinton, on the other hand,
wants increased use of fetal organs in medical research which could lead to: Abortion for Profit!!

Presently abortion clinics receive $25 per fetal organ from non-profit research centers. Clinton supports legislation that would create a market
for the sale of fetal organs which could lead to price wars between abortion clinics and hospitals. In addition, women
might eventually receive money for their aborted child. Germany is presently struggling with a black market for fetal organs that
was created by open legislation similar to what Clinton supports. Even strong pro-abortion activists such as Janice Raymond fear the
possibility of such lenient laws that would lead abortion clinics into pressuring women into having abortions.

Another problem arises in that older fetuses result in better fetal tissue for transplants. But later abortions have been proven
to result in more complications for the women. It would be unfortunate if women were persuaded into waiting several more
weeks for their abortion just so that the clinic could get more money for the fetus. Especially if complications arise
because of the later abortion date. Another fear is that unsafe abortion techniques will be used with the sole purpose
of keeping the fetus intact since it would then be worth more money. The safest present means of abortion destroys
most cells and leaves a fetus that is mostly unusable for transplants.

Finally, for fetal brain cell transplants it is necessary to use older fetuses that are still alive in the womb.
The technique of brain cell removal raises several ethical questions because it is necessary to give the fetus anesthesia for
the removal of brain cells so that the fetus doesn’t feel any pain during the procedure before it is finally
aborted. To make matters worse, much research has demonstrated that fetal tissue research does not result in the cure for
any diseases!

An article on Bill Clinton has to include Hillary since Bill claimed if you voted for him you would be
getting “two for one.” Hillary has stated in “Children Under the Law” that children at the tender age of twelve
have the right to sue their parents in the court of law. She states that the matters of abortion are
up to the woman. That's fine but what if a sixteen-year-old girl wants to have an “abortion on demand” which
would not require parental permission. If the parents tried to interfere the girl could sue her parents! Thus we wouldn’t
be dealing with not only “women’s choice” on the issue but possibly “girl’s choice.” Whether you are for or against
abortion these questions should scare you. A recent poll of students in Cincinnati and El Paso indicated that over 3%
of men and women would consider intentional impregnation to receive money for an abortion. Sorry Bill and Hillary, your version
of “family values” is not what America needs.

From the Left
Sara Carlson

Perhaps the most divisive issue facing America today is abortion. The legality of the procedure, practiced by millions of women
nationwide, is under constant attack. President Bush hopes legislatively to overturn Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 Supreme Court decision
guaranteeing women the right to safe and legal abortion. Governor Clinton supports abortion rights, as does a majority of Americans.

Since a candidate’s position on abortion could likely turn an election, many politicians favor restrictions on legal abortions, hedging their
political bets. Governor Clinton, for instance, signed into law a bill requiring parental notification for girls under 18 seeking an
abortion, pacifying pro-life attacks on his “family values.”

Though the morality of abortion is impossible to argue effectively—no one is likely to change her or his mind—the history
of abortion in the United States is impossible to ignore. According to The New Our Bodies Ourselves, church officials and
governmental parties made no prohibition against abortion until the nineteenth century. While now the so-called medical “viability” of a fetus
is the basis for limiting abortion, in the early 1800s the “animation” or “quickening” of a fetus determined the beginning
of recognizable human life (though the Catholic Church determined this time to be forty or fifty days later for a
female fetus than a male fetus). Not until 1869, when Pope Pius IX declared all abortion murder, was early (first-trimester)
abortion considered a crime. Overthe next one hundred years, denial of abortion was used to keep women from full control
of their lives. Forced to carry a child to term or risk internal infection, perforation of the uterus, or the
entrance of air into the bloodstream (all potentially fatal), a woman had little choice but to continue another pregnancy. Doing
so placed the burden, expense, and emotional exhaustion of parenthood on herself and, if she had one, her partner. Though
some women and men fought these laws, most just broke them. Doctors in the 1890s estimated they performed 2 million
illegal abortions annually, despite the enormous health risks and social stigma attached to the procedure for the patients. The rate
of abortions obtained has changed little in the last 100 years. Luckily, the safety of the procedure has. Up until
the late 1960s, women relied on painful “massage,” irritation of the uterus with foreign objects, and other horrifying techniques to
terminate a pregnancy. Now, women can choose between about a half-dozen safe techniques, from aspiration to dilation and curettage to
drug-induced miscarriage. Abortion means more to America than medicine, though. It cuts to the quick of basic disagreements about the
roles of government and religion in our lives. For the religious right, legal abortion stamps a governmental seal of approval
on sexual freedom. To feminists, accessible abortion is vital to female independence and self-determination. To most people caught in the
middle, the legal status of abortion symbolizes the government’s power over the rights of each individual. The Republican party’s position
is out of its own historical character. Supposedly the champion of small government and individual rights, the GOP advocates invasive,
crippling laws governing women’s bodies. So long as the religious far-right, led by Pat Buchanan and Pat Robertson, strangles Republican
party policy, such violations of basic human liberties will continue. We are not powerless to fight these policies. We are
Americans, living in the land of the free. We can vote for candidates exemplifying the right to self-determination. We can
vote pro-choice. In this presidential election, we can vote for Governor Clinton. Because the denial of safe and legal abortion
sets the precedent for denial of all individual rights.

Deep Thoughts . . . Kirby Shealy - What Davidson Is. . . Or Isn't?

As I think back to the time when I only aspired to enter our hallowed bastion of higher learning, back
when I was a naive, nervous, entirely too spirited high school senior (as opposed to the slothful, cynical, codgerly Davidson
senior that I have become), I remember a certain vision of what college would be like. This vision entailed, among
the ever-popular (and, in reality, rapidly diminishing) increased freedom, late-night parties, and beer that the average 18-year-old anticipates, a notion
of intellectual stimulation amidst other scholars. What I anxiously awaited were the kinds of conversations in which matters of worldly
importance would be discussed, even if they took place in settings that I so excitedly expected. This part of my
vision, in my three years on this campus, has not come to fruition. Why is it that the verbal interaction
between people outside of the classroom rarely gets any deeper than the “Hey, how ya doin’?” level? Granted there are
those rare occasions when the right combination of people is together in the right atmosphere so that real issues are
analyzed cogently and everyone leaves the meeting brewing over the matter discussed. These occasions, however, are entirely too rare, especially
at an institution of this caliber. I am constantly amazed by the mindless things we all babble about.

See "Kirby" on page 9

Frampton Rules: The Big Scam

I was thinking that perhaps the Dean of Students, Will Terry, should change his title to Dean of Alcohol Violations.
How on Earth is he going to meet with 150 different people in one week? Can you imagine the boredom
that would arise from asking, “So what were you doing when you were given this alcohol violation?” Anyway. By the
time you read this the weekend will have already passed. First of all, I hope first night down was great
for everyone. I also hope that you freshmen had a wonderful time being rushed for the first time. (Yeah right.
More like the tenth time.) For that matter, I’m sure you freshwomen had a wonderful time, as well. After all,
those frat guys are rushing you, too. Although, judgment comes in a different form in your case. (Freshmen, keep in
mind that SGA weekend isn’t that far off. You might have some luck then.) Well, back to the subject at
hand. (There is one?) Have you noticed that this campus is constantly ripping us off? You would think that the
almost seven trillion dollars we will give them over the course of our lives would be enough, but, no. They
have to pull millions of little scams. Everyone already knows about the “Bonus Bucks” deal the food service people are
pulling, but what about the bed frame scam the RLO is pulling. They demand that you return unused bed frames
to the basement, but if you leave it in the hall, they take it for you. Sounds like a good
deal, right? Wrong. They will charge $150 if you don’t have the right number of bed frames in your room,
even though they still have the same total number. Richard, let’s see everything in your pockets. Then there is the
scam Judy Krenzer is pulling down at Baker. She charges ten bucks for each team to enter an intramural sport.
I thought we already paid for all the classes we could take. I guess...

See "The Frampster" on page 9
