«The Davidsonian "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” VOLUME LXXXIV NUMBER 4 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

Davidson Returns to Top-20 Moves Up Three in U.S. News Survey

By Tom Koonce

In U.S. News & World Report's sixth annual survey of America’s best colleges, Davidson moved back into the top twenty of the 140 national liberal arts colleges in the country. Davidson moved up three places from last year’s ranking of twenty-first to this year’s ranking of eighteenth. Davidson is also listed third in the “best buys” category of the twenty-five best national liberal arts colleges. The college fell one spot from its ranking of second last year.

For the second year in a row, Williams College in Massachusetts was ranked first in the liberal arts colleges category. Williams was followed by Amherst (MA), Swarthmore (PA), Wellesley (MA), and Pomona (CA). Davidson was the highest ranked southern college followed by Washington & Lee, which came in twenty-second.

Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable Wells said of the ranking, “It clearly gives us good name recognition for the strength of our academics and value for the money.”

U.S. News and World Report determines a school’s overall rank by combining statistical data provided by the schools with the results of an exclusive survey, conducted by the magazine, of academic reputations among 2,527 responding college presidents, deans, and admissions directors. The schools provide statistics which measure the selectivity of the student body, the degree to which the school financially supports a high-quality full-time faculty, the school’s overall financial resources as determined by the total 1991 expenditure for its education program divided by its total enrollment plus all other 1991 spending per student, the level of student satisfaction, and the percentage of the school’s living alumni who contributed to their alma mater’s fund drives. The education program figure is the sum spent on student services.

See "U.S. News" on page 3

Photo by Casey Rogers
Interim Chaplain Brenda Tapia heads Davidson's Love of Learning, a nationally recognized effort to provide higher educational opportunities for Charlotte area African-American students.

Love of Learning Program Strives to Break Down Barriers

By Xatrice Shuler

Members of the Davidson community who tuned into Charles Kuralt on August 23rd were surprised to see Davidson College on national television. Why do we deserve such recognition? Two women, 180 African-American students, their parents, numerous college counselors, mentors, teachers and other individuals devoted to education: the Love of Learning program.

Love of Learning, a five-year sequential program for both students and their parents, recognizes that African-American students face barriers in pursuing higher education including too few textbooks, gang violence and drug use. LOL’s Director Brenda Tapia and Assistant Director Joan Miller in conjunction with Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools attempt to counter such obstacles.

Each year LOL selects 30 rising African-American freshmen from CMS to attend Davidson for four grueling weeks of summer classes. A unique aspect of this program is the composition of each class of 30. When Tapia began the program in 1987 she decided to focus on the students who may “fall between the cracks.” 5 students are selected from the top and 5 from the bottom of their classes.

See "Love" on page 4

SGA Elections Experience Difficulties

By Tom Price

The latest Student Government Association elections were forced to be redone after candidates for the Honor Council were twice left off of the ballots. SGA President Anthony Foxx described the error as...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

an “honest mistake.” Foxx expressed sorrow that the elections had to be redone because redoing the elections meant more work for members of the SGA and resulted in fewer students voting on the “make-up” election day. Elections are run by an SGA committee called the Elections Council. Foxx said that group has met and discussed ways of avoiding future problems. In the future, he said, they will concentrate more on accuracy and less on getting the job done quickly. In a separate development, the SGA decided to elect new members to the Honor Council from each of the sophomore, junior, and senior classes. In accordance with a vote of the Student Conduct Council last Spring, the elections were to increase the number of members on the Honor Council to See "Elections" on page 4.

Photo by Laura Dennis

Shi Heads to Furman
Accepts Position at Alma Mater as Dean of Faculty
By Meg Davis

Imagine returning to Davidson in nineteen years to be the boss of your past professors! This is the situation David Shi will face when he returns to Furman University on June 1st as vice president of academic affairs and dean of faculty. The president for academic affairs has come from outside its own faculty. Shi, the Frontis W. Johnston Professor of History, has been at Davidson since he received his Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in 1976. Davidson and Furman have been battling for Shi’s allegiance since his high school days when his college choices were narrowed to the two schools. Even during college Davidson gained notoriety with Shi, as he charmed his future wife away from a Davidson football player. It seems Davidson was in the lead with Shi, former chair of the history department, in his seventeenth year. Furman, with only four years to their credit, will win Shi back on June 1st. The evolution of Shi from professor to administrator was not a process he even considered unique circumstances” began with a call from the president of Furman nine months ago. President John E. Johns asked if Shi would be willing to become a candidate for the position of vice president of academic affairs and dean of faculty. Although Shi would not have accepted an offer like this from any other school, his allegiance to his alma mater motivated him to accept. In addition, both Shi’s and his wife’s parents now reside in the See "Shi" on page 5.

Novelist Reynolds Price to Speak at Convocation
By Tom Price

Novelist Reynolds Price, a North Carolina native and Duke University English professor, will speak at Fall Convocation on Saturday, Sept. 26. Price will deliver a speech and receive an honorary Doctor of Literature degree. An accomplished Southern writer, Price has received numerous awards since the publication of his first novel, “A Long and Happy Life,” in 1962. This novel received the William Faulkner Award for outstanding first novel. In addition to writing novels, Price has also published short stories, plays, essays, volumes of poetry, and translations from the Bible. Price’s novels feature rich characters whose rural North Carolina lives form the basis for intriguing plots. “Blue Calhoun,” See "Price" on page 2.

INSIDE
NEWS: Davidson Grad Addresses Central America. See page 3.
Davidson Volunteers Aid Louisiana. See page 6.
OPINIONS: From the Left and Right. See page 9.
ARTS: Inside Art. See page 11.
SPORTS: Ukrop nets 50th goal and Cats tie #3 Duke. See page 16.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036