4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

Cherie Clark is a visiting psychology professor who received degrees in Psychology and Experimental Psychology from Indiana University of Pennsylvania and Florida Atlantic University. Clark expects to receive her Ph.D. from Florida International University in Life Span Developmental Psychology. She has worked for nine years in aging research and has conducted research in the area of physical performance in daily tasks. She is teaching Introductory Psychology, Child Psychology, and the Psychology of Aging, a new course that involves on-site studies by students at The Pines, a retirement home.

Linda McNally is a Visiting Lecturer in Biology for the fall semester and is presently teaching Principles of Organismal Biology.

Cecilia Montero is the Visiting Instructor of Spanish for the Fall of this year. She is teaching Spanish 101 and 102. She enjoys teaching about the Latin American culture and comparing it to America’s. Montero works with Hispanic affairs and multicultural education in Latin America. “I am very glad to be teaching at Davidson College and being a part of a team that imparts and models excellence,” she said.

Barbara Simerka is a new teacher in the Spanish department. She teaches all levels of the language as well as literature courses and hopes to take groups of students to Spain in the future. Simerka received her Ph.D. in Comparative Literature at USC. She enjoys the small size of Davidson and the ability to know her students on a one-to-one level.

The English Department is enjoying two new full-time visiting professors. Sue F. Ross has been employed by Davidson for fifteen years. In the Fall of 1977, she was hired as the Assistant Dean of Students and moved to the Registrar’s Office in 1985. Ross has taught fifteen courses since then. This is her first year as a full-time instructor. She is teaching English 101 and a seminar in American Literature of the jazz age. Ross received her Ph.D. at UNC Chapel Hill and has written books on Irving and Tom Wolfe. She has previously taught at Queens, UNC Chapel Hill, and St. Mary’s Junior College in Raleigh. She says, “I feel like a convert ... excited” about her transition from administration to the classroom.

Elizabeth Benedict is the McGee Visiting Professor of Writing for this school year. She is from New York City and was educated at Barnard. She has written two novels, Slow Dancing and The Beginner's Book of Dreams. Her third novel, Safe Conduct, will be published this Spring. She has taught at Haverford and Swarthmore Colleges, George Mason University, and at the Writer’s Center in Bethesda, Maryland. Benedict served as the Managing Editor of the Washington Book Review. She is teaching both a fiction workshop and a non-fiction writing workshop.

Angela Curran is a visiting professor in the Philosophy Department. She received her Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Massachusetts in Amherst last year. Curran has also obtained a B.A. from UC at Berkeley. She taught at the College of Charleston as recently as last year and was a teacher at the University of Massachusetts as a graduate student. Her main area of expertise is Ancient Greek Philosophy with an emphasis on Aristotle. Curran also professes interest in contemporary metaphysics and philosophy of film. She is teaching two courses this semester: History of Ancient Philosophy and Political Philosophy. “I am looking forward to being taught by the students and faculty about what is on their minds and the issues in philosophy that interest them.”

Maurya MacNeil is a 1987 Davidson graduate who has returned to teach Psychology in the Psychometrics position. She has an M.A. from Ohio State University and expects a Ph.D. from there this year. “Davidson was a wonderful experience for me. I hope I can make it a wonderful experience for the students.”

Rebecca N. Gray is a visiting professor in Religion who was born and raised in Michigan.received her B.A. in Mathematics from Kalamazoo College and her Ph.D. in Theology from Oxford University, where she spent seven years. She has spent the last two years at Yale University as a post-doctoral fellow. Her main interests are the Bible, early Christianity, and early Judaism. Gray is now teaching History and Religion of Ancient Israel and Resurrection and Immortality in Early Jewish and Christian Traditions.

Dianne Portelance teaches Political Science while on visiting status. She attended college at Bryn Mawr, the University of Pennsylvania, Delhi University, Nanjing University, and the University of Nairobi. She previously taught at Wells College in New York; Franklin and Marshall in Lancaster, Pennsylvania; University of Maine at Orono and Washington College in Maryland. Portelance will teach Introduction to Comparative Politics and South Asian Politics. “I enjoy Davidson very much. Good students make teaching fun,” she said.

Murray S. Simpson, a visiting Economics professor, was the Valedictorian of the Davidson class of 1985. He expects to receive his Ph.D. at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Simpson lives in Winston-Salem with his wife MiaJia Jian, a 1987 Davidson graduate. He teaches introductory economics and Public Sector Economics. Simpson says, “I am sure that my stay here will only deepen my appreciation for Davidson College. I will have the benefit of seeing the college from the perspective of both a faculty member and a student.”

Jeffrey J. Rous is another visiting Economics professor. He received his B.A. at Knox. He teaches Health Economics. He lives in Chapel Hill and is a graduate student at UNC and he commutes to Davidson on Wednesdays.

The Mathematics Department will benefit from new assistant professor Danna K. Molinek. She received degrees from the University of Alaska at Anchorage and Mathematics, which deal with predicting long-term behavior and average behavior of physical systems over time.

The science department of Chemistry and Biology have each received two new or visiting professors. Jennifer L. Simmons is a Visiting Assistant Professor of Chemistry who received her B.A. from the College of Wooster and her M.S. from the University of Rochester in Rochester, New York. Simmons expects her Ph.D. from Rochester this year. She teaches Chemistry 115, 352, and 450.

Mitchell A. Rhea is a Visiting Assistant Professor of Chemistry from Knoxville, Tennessee where he received his Ph.D. from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. He taught at Davidson during the 1989-1990 school year. He has taught at Pfeiffer College in Misenheimer, NC. Rhea is teaching Introductory Organic Chemistry I and II.

She is living in Charlotte and teaches an introductory Biology course at UNCC. McNally received both her B.S. and M.S. in Biology at UNCC. Her graduate research was a study on the behavior of African honey bees, which meant that she had to live in the African bush for an entire year.

Patricia A. Peroni is the new Assistant Professor of Biology. She has received degrees from Bucknell University, State University of New York at Albany, and State University of New York College at Plattsburg. Peroni received her Ph.D. in Botany from Duke last year. She is teaching a seminar on research methods for biologists and a supraorganismal biology course. She hopes to be involved with student environmental committees. Peroni worked this past summer at the Virginia Mountain Lake Biological Station and hopes to take

See "Professors" on page 6

issue if there was advertising space. "It’s about denying basic rights,” Green said. “We don’t

Art History Semester in France For Spring 1993

All Interested Students (Soph, Juniors, Seniors) should see Professor Shaw Smith right away at 105 Cunningham Fine Arts Building, Ext. 2182

202 South Main Street Davidson 896-8700

Tinkham's is proud to feature BOMA sterling silver antique reproduction jewelry, Wild Bryde gold plate, environmentally supportive jewelry, and vintage costume jewelry. ALL PRICED TO FIT A STUDENT'S BUDGET

Tinkham’s Curiosity Shop
Tuesday-Friday 10-4
Saturday 10-3