14 THE DAVIDSONIAN _SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992

Davidson © Sports Shorts

Baseball Kicks Off Season With Loss, Win Against UNCC

The Davidson baseball team opened its season February 8 with a 7-4 loss at UNCC. The 49ers assumed a 6-0 lead after three innings and then held off a Davidson rally. Designated hitter Drew Fassett drove in three Davidson runs with a fourth-inning double. Starter Andy Paul took the loss for the Wildcats.

The two teams met again at Wildcat Park the following afternoon, with Davidson capturing an 8-7 win. The ‘Cats’ five-run fifth inning sparked them to victory; Tim Kerns hit a two-run home run in that frame. Paul Brannan scored the eventual winning run in the seventh on a sacrifice fly by Jazz Freitas. Randy Spaw threw three innings in relief of starter Jim Stanfill (1-0). Both Mac Chapman and Rick Bender went 3-5 with a double and 2 RBI for Davidson.

Last Tuesday, the Wildcats scored nine runs in the first two innings on their way to an 11-5 lead against Furman. The game was postponed due to darkness after eight innings and will be completed later in the season. Senior Joe Azzolino struck the big blow in the first with a grand slam homer that drove in Freitas, Bender, and Mike Liebdzinski. The ‘Cats knocked the Furman starter out of the box after just one-third of an inning. Kerns hit a two-run home run, his second of the year, in the second inning. Bender went 3-6 with three doubles. Derek Twombly (6 IP, 6 hits, 3 runs) was the pitcher of record for Davidson when the game was called.

Women’s Tennis Falls to Campbell

Campbell swept the first four singles and first two doubles matches to earn a 6-3 victory over Davidson February 8 in Buies Creek, N.C. Nicole Wilcox and Barbara Grooms gained victories at number five and number six singles, respectively, for the ‘Cats. The number three doubles team of Jennifer Beahm and Wilcox also won. Davidson’s season continued this past weekend in the Wildcats Doubles Classic.

Final Game Continued from page 13

...ated numerous quick transition baskets off of turnovers. As in Davidson’s game against Spartanburg, the Wildcats played even with North Greenville in the second half. Davidson dropped the game by twenty points.

In the last game of the season for Davidson, against Washington and Lee, the team honored seniors Faison Nuckolls and Skye Macleod before the game. They were presented with roses from each team member as they were announced. It was a very special moment for the two women because they have started a tradition in the program in just one year. The Wildcats cruised to an early lead with inside scoring from Nuckolls, who had twenty-six points and twelve rebounds. Everyone was a part of the action, and they went into halftime with a 37-12 lead. The Wildcats kept up the tempo in the second half with breakaway layups by Kristin Solsrud, Courtney Robertson, Bryson Moore, Katrina O’Neal, and Jenny Plowright. The final outcome was 72-48.

Coach Filar was very impressed with the enthusiasm and intensity in the final game of the season and the crowd at the end of the game. He said, “We wanted to end the season with a strong finish, and have no regrets. This team has come a long way since November and improved tremendously. We will really miss Skye and Faison next year not only with their style of play and leadership, but as persons. The others on the team and I are fortunate to have worked with them.”

Day Heats Up, Leads Radford Over Plummeting Davidson Squad

By Bruce Balestier

The plotline to Saturday night’s Radford-Davidson basketball game was achingly familiar. A 30-11 Radford run spanning ten minutes of the second half erased a 13-point Davidson lead, and though the Wildcats drew within 61-59 with 2:46 to play, the Highlanders converted down the stretch to capture a 72-63 win. The victory left Radford atop the Big South standings with a 9-1 record. Davidson (7-14, 2-7) has lost five straight and eight of their last ten. As expected, the protagonist in the Radford surge was junior...guard Doug Day, whose quiet first half (three points on 1-5 FG) turned out to be the calm before the storm. He lit up the ‘Cats for 19 second-half points, among them five three-point goals, and finished with 22 points. Day shot 1-6 from two-point range, but 6-11 from three-point territory. Day’s exploits helped Radford overcome a fine first half by Davidson. The Wildcats’ outburst began in earnest with roughly eleven and a half minutes left in the period, when Ron Horton got past the Radford press and took off just inside the free throw line for a dunk. Patient pressure paid off for the ‘Cats at the six-minute mark, when Janko Narat stole the ball and fed Sterling Freeman for a layup and a 21-20 Davidson lead. Two minutes later, Freeman’s finger roll in transition gave the Wildcats a 28-20 advantage; they settled for a 35-28 halftime lead. Davidson continued in the same vein at the outset of the second half; when Narat picked up a loose ball and laid it in, the Wildcats had their largest lead at 41-28. But Day struck swiftly. In a span of 5:23, he hit five three-pointers, most under heavy defensive pressure, to give his team the lead.

Maria Whitehead Sets Triple Jump Record at Pepsi Relay
By Peter Hurtado

The women’s track and field team keeps adding names to the record books, as four more indoor records fell in the past two weeks of action. Freshman Maria Whitehead, last week’s female athlete of the week, posted her second school record performance in as many meets with a triple jump of 32'6 1/2" at the Pepsi Relays at Virginia Tech. Whitehead posted a fine long jump of 14’1 3/4" as well. She also set the 200m record three weeks ago. Senior Kathy Beach chalked up three more records of her own, two coming this past weekend at the Clemson Invitational. Her stellar times of 5:12 in the mile and 10:27 in the 3000m eclipse her previous records in those events. Beach also broke her own 5000m record last weekend at the US Air Invitational with a time of 18:26.1. Her sights are set on rewriting several outdoor records this spring. The women’s distance medley relay team crafted a fine time of 13:58.2 at the Pepsi Relays. Lisa Sitek led off with a 1200m (4:20), followed by Whitehead in the 400m (:65), Heather Tarpley in the 800m (2:42), and Carolyn Meadows’ 5:54 mile. The women hope to rid themselves of injury and illness by winter’s end and plan to make a run at several records. The team will take a week off and will compete next at the Holiday Inn Invitational at Virginia Tech.

Frank Harris’ running shot in the lane cut the Radford lead to 61-59 with 2:46 left, but the Highlanders’ Brian Schmall answered with a three-pointer. Zimmerman hit a baseline jumper to make the deficit 64-61 with 1:20 to play, but Radford then beat the Davidson trap for a layup and a 66-61 advantage, and finished the game at the foul line. Harris led Davidson with 17 points, while Narat scored 12 and grabbed 11 rebounds. Freeman played superbly off the bench, scoring 10 points on 4-5 shooting to spark the ‘Cats first-half run. Radford won the game at the three-point arc; the two teams converted equal numbers of field goals and foul shots, but the Highlanders made 9-19 three-pointers while Davidson made 0-4. The Wildcats play Wednesday at Wake Forest and Saturday travel to Radford for a rematch with the Highlanders.

Study abroad in Stockholm, Sweden with The Swedish Program at Stockholm University. Instruction is in English. Course offerings are diverse, for example: women and equality, environmental studies, international relations, Scandinavian literature, public policy, history of the Vikings, politics, health care, and Swedish family relations. Live with a Swedish family or in a university dormitory. Witness the dramatic changes reshaping Europe on our excursions to Berlin and Budapest. For more information please contact your Study Abroad Advisor or call The Swedish Program office at Hamilton College: (315) 859-4404.