THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

SAE Continued from page 1

very optimistic about this opportunity to change many of the negative perceptions that have surfaced this semester. We are pleased that the Dean of Students office is willing to work with us to fulfill the directives he has suggested.” Lindsay also added, “SAE desires to become a more visible and a fully vital member of the Davidson College community.”

In sum, the thirteen directives are:

1) The installation of an Alumni Board of Directors, which will oversee the operations of the chapter until further notice from the college. All the stipulations listed below will be performed under the guidance of this Alumni Board.

2) The designing of a new pledge program. This pledge program shall be designed to enhance pledges’ participation in the life of the larger campus community and be free of any hint of hazing. This pledge program must be submitted to the Dean by November 1992.

3) The fraternity will establish a list of short and long-term goals which will enable the fraternity to shed its destructive attitudes and images.

4) SAE will reimburse a student for the cost of his medical bills.

5) Change the by-laws of the chapter so that the officers of SAE serve for a full year.

6) That the entire chapter (and the Alumni Board, if possible) go on a two-day retreat the first weekend of the fall semester to develop skills in self-regulation, the problems of alcohol abuse, leadership skills for governing the house, and exposure to forms of social activity which do not center around alcohol.

7) Attention will be paid to the physical upkeep of the house, including short-term provisions for new furniture for the living room in order to make it a more appealing place for people to socialize.

8) The development of “pro-active” activities throughout 1992-93 involving other organizations on campus including service projects that involve the chapter physically. The chapter is strongly urged to involve itself in social programs with the College Union as well.

9) That SAE plan, sponsor, promote, and participate in a major campus-wide program involving one of the following areas: race relations, alcohol abuse, or sexual harassment including acquaintance rape.

10) That the chapter be involved in no behavior on campus that is negative or can be interpreted as being in violation of the Code of Responsibility.

11) That rush for fall of 1992 be dry and that neither the chapter nor its members involve themselves in any activities which undermine the rush program established for Patterson Court.

12) Freshman SAEs will be asked to do a campus service project approved by the Dean of Students. When the project is completed, the chapter may petition the Dean for the right to initiate them.

13) Because alcohol abuse and the mistreatment of women have been the most serious charges brought against the fraternity, there will be a “short course” dealing with these issues in which the chapter must participate.

Three alumni members have been selected for the alumni board of directors: Jim Richards (’80), James Combs (’89), and Will Miller (’78). Richards explained that the group of three were originally intended to work with the SAE faculty advisor, Dr. Leland Park. Park, however, has since resigned from this position and Richards said that the three-member group has become, “in essence, almost their advisor.” Richards said, “Basically what we’re here to do is to give them advice, be an intermediary between [SAE,] the administration and the Dean of Students Office, and help them to understand the stipulations they are currently working under.” Richards said that the alumni board has already met twice with the house and will continue to be a part of the chapter’s weekly meetings. Currently, their term of service is indefinite, but Richards believes that they will serve on the committee “at least through next year.”

In the report, Dean Terry said that SAE will remain “under some form of probation for two full years.” Also, Dean Terry has decided to continue the house’s alcohol probation into next year in lieu of a party held at a house occupied by SAEs on Thompson Street. Terry said that SAE had been specifically instructed not to use Thompson Street as a social center during their time of social probation, and that the party violated the spirit of their probation.

Be patient, summer's near.

Visiting Professor Speaks Before Congress

By Jeff Oller

Gabriela Tarazona-Sevillano is a visiting Professor of International Studies from Peru. She has taught at Davidson for the last five years and is currently teaching courses on terrorism and drug wars. She is the published author of a book, Sendero Luminoso and the Threat of Narcoterrorism.and she is an expert in the studies of “The Shining Path,” an extremely powerful terrorist movement in Peru, and drug trafficking. Due to her expertise, she was invited by the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs, working within the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the U.S. House of Representatives, to testify before Congress. On Wednesday, March 11 of this year, Tarazona spoke formally concerning “The Threat of the Shining Path to Democracy in Peru and U.S. Policy.” In her statement before the subcommittee, Tarazona spoke about The Shining Path, who have been carrying out a revolution against the Peruvian government for the past twelve years. The Shining Path considers itself the “vanguard of the world’s Communist revolution” as it espouses a high-intensity Maoism. It believes it will lead a worldwide Communist Revolution. The Shining Path has denounced Russia and China for “breaking away from the true Communist path.” The Peruvian Communist Party-Sendero Luminoso (PCP-SL), as it officially calls itself, “represents the greatest threat to democracy and stability of Peru and its Latin American neighbors,” she said. On May 17, 1980, The Shining Path declared war against the Peruvian state, and since then, over 25,000 people have lost their lives, another 4,000 have disappeared, and over $20 billion have been spent in the struggle. The Shining Path’s strong alliance with the Peruvian drug syndicate funds its action and makes it an almost uncontrollable, much less unstoppable, force. As of 1991, Peru had declared a state of emergency covering 56% of the Peruvian population. In early April of this year, Peruvian President Fujimori orchestrated a self-induced coup to gain a stronger hold on the fight against The Shining Path and the drug trade. The Peruvian Constitution, the judiciary system, and the Peruvian Congress have been suspended, and a totalitarian regime has assumed control, ending the tradition of democratically-elected governments since 1980. While some argue that this may be the only way to combat the terrorism and drug trafficking that are plaguing the country, Washington cannot find a way to openly support such a government. In her report, Tarazona spoke about The Shining Path directly. They are “not a pack of romantic revolutionaries launching a poorly-planned insurrection.” The leader, Abimael Guzman, holds a doctrine that combines elements of Marx, Lenin, Mao, and Peruvian thinker Jose Carlos Mariategui. This doctrine, called “Gonzalo’s thought,” is accepted without question by his followers. Although it is an underground terrorist organization, there are estimated to be about 20,000 hardcore Shining Path terrorists with quite a lot of support. The Shining Path draws its strength from Peru’s impoverished and neglected Indian and Mestizo population. The Shining Path operates on the ideology that the government and the system need to be violently overthrown to repay the destruction done by the Spanish Conquest on the native Peruvian population. It openly bids that the Indians of today must avenge the suffering of their ancestors. The thinkers within The Shining Path conveniently ignore the fact that one can’t change the past, and that too much has changed between then and now to make their argument viable. Peru, with immigration from European countries, the Orient, the United States, and other Latin American countries, has become too much of a melting pot.

See "Tarazona" on page 5

Shops on The Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.

THE OUTDOORS — Camping Equipment & Clothing

FREE INTRODUCTORY OFFER

Rush me two 20-exposure rolls of your highly acclaimed 35mm film, one each at 200 ASA and 400 ASA. Enclosed is $2.00 for shipping. Limit: 2 rolls per household. Seattle, WA 98124-1056

Ideal for use in Canon, Nikon, Minolta, Konica, Olympus, Pentax... any 35mm camera.

#25334 limited availability from other labs.

FIRST NAME LAST NAME ADDRESS CITY STATE ZIP

Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks
Elliott Bay at Pier 89
P.O. Box 34056
Look for this symbol when you shop by mail.

FREE 2 ROLLS 35mm Film

Get prints or slides from the same roll

Seattle

Try this Exciting New Film!

“Its main forte is color reproduction. You can see the difference between cherry red and tomato red.” — Photographic Magazine

Now you can try the 35mm film Photographic Magazine calls the best 200 ASA print film in the World! To introduce you, we'll send you two rolls Free. Fine grain, rich color, wide exposure latitude — perfect for everyday shots. Shoot in bright or low light — indoors or outdoors. And you can order prints, slides, or both, from the same roll! Try this remarkable film today. 100% Satisfaction Guaranteed.

©1992 Seattle FilmWorks. Free film offer does not include developing. Process SFW-XL™ at Seattle FilmWorks with limited availability from other labs.