THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992 11

Music Groups Preparing to Tour Over Spring Break

By Susan Sheffield

Come March 6, while most people are going to Florida to begin this season’s tan, the Wind Ensemble and the
Concert Choir will be going on tour to do programs all over the country. The Choir is representing the school
while everyone else will be recuperating from the two-month hiatus from leisure. Fortunately, the music is good and the conductors
are charismatic.

Originally, the music tours were a way for the less-widely-traveled students of yore to see the cultural centers that they
otherwise might miss: New York, Chicago, Washington, New Orleans. This year, add Disney World. Now, students do not get terribly
distracted by the prospect of going to New York yet again, so they concentrate on the music.

The Choir and Wind Ensemble/Jazz Band perform at churches and schools on the way to their destinations, preferably in towns
where students live. To minimize the cost to the music department (who pays for everything except food), students stay with
host families, whose generosity toward total strangers is astonishing.

This year, Dr. Lawing will take his merry band of brigands to Chicago. They will play concerts there, in Virginia,
and in Wisconsin, with a program that includes Vaughan-Williams, Lingschootn, Dixieland, and Big Band standards. Their home concert, which should
be very good, will be on Tuesday, March 17.

Dr. Saunders, Ellen Brewer (the accompanist), and the choir stop in Charleston, Savannah, and Winter Park, Florida. The choir is
singing Britten’s Rejoice in the Lamb, the text of which was written by a man who was institutionalized, a section
of American music, Brahms, and more. The concert will be Wednesday, March 18, and should also be a fine opportunity
to hear music that is not ordinarily performed by college choirs.

Anecdotally, in 1981, the year Donald Plott, a wonderful conductor, died, Dr. Mary Nell Saunders was asked to take over
the program.

Grammys Continued from page 10.

Reba McEntire’s “For My Broken Heart,” Kathy Mattea’s “Time Passes By,” Trisha Yearwood’s “She’s in Love With the Boy,” and
Tanya Tucker’s “Down to My Last Teardrop.” The Grammys often favor the records that show the most depth of talent,
diversity, and capability. Number one songs and hype mean little at the Grammys. Any of the nominees, with the possible
exception of Mattea’s album, would have been a justifiable and deserving choice; but what a sweet moment it was for
Nashville and all fans of music when Mary-Chapin Carpenter’s name was announced.

In a short period of time, she has become the darling of both the industry and of the critics; and
the fans haven’t exactly shunned her. Carpenter, a Washington, D.C. native and a graduate of Brown, is an all-around artist
whose efforts in her short career (she has released only three albums) have brought her vast, somewhat unexpected amounts of
praise. In her acceptance, she wasn’t hokey, sappy, or corny; she wasn’t trite or arrogant. She was almost bursting with
joy, however, as she glided out from backstage to receive her award.

Carpenter’s bubbly personality and sparkling smile warmed the crowd as she said, “I don’t know if I’ll ever have a
chance like this again, so I’ve got a long list [of people to thank].” Carpenter is extremely bright and well-spoken;
yet, on this night, the right words were hard to come by.

Although she has several top-ten and top-five songs, and USA Today picked her to win,She’s not the biggest name, and
she’s certainly not pure country. But her writing is some of the best of any format that anyone has heard;
she writes purging, cathartic ballads as deftly as she composes sharp and clever, upbeat songs. Her rich, full alto can
take on lively electricity as well as a smooth, gentle, and fluid purity. Her live show, one I have seen
several times, is a delight; she exudes a remarkable warmth and a fiery passion for the stage. She is even
a great guitarist. Once thought of as folky, she has displayed tremendous depth and versatility throughout her three albums; her
fourth—not far off—promises to be a jewel. Carpenter is, in my estimation, the finest all-around female talent in country music;
it was wonderful to see someone with so much to give in all aspects of life so justly rewarded. If
you haven’t had a chance to hear her music, I heartily recommend her albums "State of the Heart" and "Shooting
Straight in the Dark" to all listeners, no matter what you think of country. Her music is powerful, thought-provoking, and
a pleasure to hear.

Phish Continued from page 1
ganization, or a song list long enough to last two sets.” Well, I thank the big guy whoever he is
for his generosity in giving Phish a start. Go buy "A Picture of Nectar" for a truly composed, truly performed,
and truly amazing musical experience.

Next Week: Don’t know yet.

To: All rising Soph, Jrs. and Srs.
From: CHOICES-Davidson's Alcohol & Substance Abuse Prevention Program
Would you be interested in helping to change drinking attitudes on the Davidson campus? Become a CHOICES peer educator for
the next academic year. Come to the Counseling Center in the basement of the Union for information and an application
form. Applications must be completed by March 22nd. Interviews will follow the following week.

We are going to Disney World after in order for the choir to be able to do a tour and
spring concert. This was also the year that several students convinced their host families to give them their cars so
that they could go to a reception given in their honor by the Williamsburg alumni chapter. The hosts probably realized
that this was not so when their charges staggered in only minutes before they were to be driven to meet
the bus.

WRITE FOR ARTS
Contact Stancel Riley at -6397
Filling in for the vacationing Chris Hoveland

ALL STEREO SOUND
Medicine - 3:10, 5:20, 7:30, 9:40
The Prince of Tides (R) - 3:20, 5:20, 7:20, 9:20
3:15, 5:25, 7:35, 9:45
The Hand That Rocks the Cradle (R)

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6 PM
MOVIES at THE LAKE
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS 892-3841
The Great Mouse Detective (G) - 3:00 & 5:00
Love, Friendship, Fried Green Tomatoes
Bugsy (R) - 7:00 & 9:35
SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY!

OFFICE ELECTION SIGN-UPS FOR CATEGORY IV WHICH INCLUDES:
3 CLASS SENATORS FOR RISING SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS, & SENIORS
MARCH 16-19 IN THE DEAN OF STUDENTS

DUNLOP BFGoodrich
18816 Statesville Rd.
Cornelius, NC 28036
(704) 892-9218
MON.-FRI. 8 AM-5 PM; SAT 8 AM-1 PM
FULL LINE OF GENERAL AUTO REPAIR ON AMERICAN AND FOREIGN CARS
New and Used Tires
Computer Tire Balancing
Air Conditioning
Computer Wheel Alignment
NC State Inspection
Brakes
Transmissions
Tune Up
Trailer Tires & Service
Major and Minor Repairs on Gasoline & Diesel Engines
Welcomed
GOODYEAR
Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center
CORNELIUS
Hwy 73
