THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

Exams
Continued from page 1

According to Klein, the optional classes are “new in official capacity but in years past professors had the opportunity” to
have 14 weeks and a reading week or 15 full weeks and then exams. Klein described the optional classes as
“a compromise.” At the end of this school year, a survey will be sent out to the faculty to see
whether the optional class days were used for classes or as study days.

Klein emphasized that the Executive Committee of the Faculty is “keenly aware of the objections to this year’s calendar.” The
committee is listening to all of its constituencies, including faculty, alumni, athletics, and especially students. With the large number of
offices interested in the calendar, the committee is “very sensitive” to the needs and desires of all of them.

A number of students have expressed their distaste for the new exam schedule. Junior Rachel Dunifon said, “A lot of
teachers are using the optional class days to fit in the work they haven’t had time for. Also, I liked
being able to take a break in between exams instead of having to take several in a row.” David Wright,
a senior, commented, “It makes it really difficult for those taking five courses; however, it is unrealistic to have five
days [for exams] regardless if you have four exams or not. If optional class days were used to study that
would help.”

“Optional classes are ridiculous. If they are going to take out a day of exams they need to add a
reading day,” said junior Lesley Marshall. Junior Robert Pascal suggested, “I think they should leave us the option to take
exams on Sunday.” Senior Jennifer Roos said, “I think it is very discriminatory against athletes. We have practices and games
that take away time from exam days. In the past we've had a week, now I have to take them
all back to back.”

Spring semester of ‘93 will also have optional classes, a reading day, and five days for exams. The fall and
spring semester exam schedule for the school year of ‘93-‘94 will imitate the same style. This month the Executive Committee
of the Faculty will finalize the calendar for the ‘94-‘95 academic year.

Final Four
Continued from page 1

Davidson coach Charlie Slagle said, “They obviously gave a lot of respect to one of the best players in the
country.” But other Davidson players picked up the slack, and, as usual, goalkeeper Alex Deegan was one of them. Early
in the first overtime, he preserved his shutout with a most unorthodox save. Having broken the wrong way on a
blast from 18 yards by State’s Erwin Aguilera, he “knuckled back” to block the shot with his leg and deflect
it out of play.

Shots were even at 24 in the match, and the fact that only one goal was scored was really a
credit to the defenses of both teams. The Pack’s attack was predicated on passes down the wings, the idea being
that N.C. State’s speed would eventually prompt a mistake by the Davidson defense. State’s Mark Jonas and Gabriel Okonkwo each
threatened with narrowly missed shots to theRight post in the first overtime, but the Davidson defense never yielded. “The defense
played great the whole game and then the offense came through,” Deegan said. Making the Final Four, of course, is
an astounding accomplishment for a non-scholarship team from the nation’s smallest Division I school, a fact not lost on Slagle.
“This team never fails to amaze me,” he said. “It’s not really a dream come true,” Ukrop said, “because I
never even dreamed about this.”

---

Christmas in Davidson Celebrates the Holiday Season

By Sean Lind

Pine wreaths garnish the lampposts, icicles hang from the window frames of The Village Store, and Tom Clark’s elves are
all dressed up like Santa’s helpers. It’s Christmas in the town of Davidson!

To celebrate, Davidson offers its fourth annual “Christmas in Davidson” festival. The events, which will take place Wednesday, December 2
through Saturday, December 5, include free horse and carriage rides, performances, and, of course, Santa. During the three-day celebration, the
town of Davidson and area businesses and organizations sponsor events, exhibitions, and workshops.

“Christmas in Davidson” officially began at 6:30 p.m. on Wednesday at the Village Green with a speech by Davidson Mayor
Russel Knox to welcome in the season. Also featured was Christmas music by The Davidson College Concert Choir and a
short holiday presentation by the Park and Recreation Drama Group.

Thursday included seasonal face painting with Audrey Brock of Carolina Clowns, “adopt a family for the holiday” with Habitat for
Humanity, the Exceptional Children’s Assistance Center and the Girl Scouts teaching carols in sign language, and Christmas storytelling and films.

On Friday, events include: Santa at First Union, an antique...

See "Christmas" on page 2

---

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6 PM
MOVIES at THE LAKE
ALL STEREO SOUND

Used Gentleman) 7:10, 9:25
A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT 3:30, 7:00, 9:30
Passenger 57 3:10, 5:10, 7:10, 9:10
Under Siege 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25

---

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: The holiday gift you can really use.

Tell your folks that more college students choose Macintosh than any other computer. They’d want you to be in good
company.

Ask for an Apple Macintosh computer this holiday season and join all of the students who've discovered that no matter
what they do, Macintosh helps them do it better and faster. That’s because Macintosh is so easy to use. And
the thousands of available software applications work in a single, consistent way. So once you've learned one, you're well on
your way to learning them all.

The advantages of Macintosh don’t end when school does. In fact, the majority of Fortune 1000 companies use Macintosh computers.
So ask your Apple Campus Reseller to help you choose which Macintosh to put at the top of your holiday
gift list.

Macintosh. It’s more than a present, it’s a future.

For further information visit Computer Services Center
Contact Susie Abernethy at x2432

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS is
a registered trademark, and Windows a trademark, of Microsoft Corporation. Based on a survey conducted by Computer Intelligence, 1991.
