Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

Abbey Pay For Its Sims, 10-5 out of post-season competition. Cy ay Or ts ims, a i seats De aus
Nite tata be Miia AE OL, By Dack Stackhouse fought back but could not get the —After another Guilford score,
a nt a diffrent Dechlara toon Anes rection CChi and rec, After & full’ month without tall into thie try
zone. Tim Dancy cleared a penalty kick, ME ae erent Davidson team. After upsetting VCU and Richmond, the “Cats were
looking to do the same with previously nationally-ranked JMU. Ukrop scored the first and only goal of the game seven
minutes into the game. The defense held off a strong JMU team comeback and ensured the ‘Cats of their ranking.
Pryor said, “This victory showed everyone else what I’ve always known, and that is this team has a lot of
heart. Even though JMU outshot us, we just wanted it more than they did. Having a ranking has always been
a career goal of mine, and this team deserves it after what they have accomplished this season.”

The ‘Cats beat Virginia Tech on Saturday to maintain their number one seed in the Deep South tournament this weekend
in Salisbury. Davidson had over twenty shots on goal, while holding the Hokies to no shots on goal. The ‘Cats
could not score until midway through the second half, when Ukrop scored off a rebound from the goalie. Junior Suzanne
Hardesty added another goal off of a corner with approximately eight minutes to go before, due to darkness, the game
was called early.

Women's Soccer Continued from page 16

The Wildcats rebounded with two strong wins this week to put themselves over the .500 mark. Nine different players scored
in the 10-0 win over UNCA. Senior Amy Hoffheimer blasted down the left sideline to open the scoring. Fellow seniors
Ann Todd and Elizabeth McLaughlin also found the net early in the first half, McLaughlin on a penalty kick. Hundley
honored the three seniors in a post-game ceremony. Ellen Sprinkle and Alyson Browett also scored in the first half to
make the score 5-0 at halftime. Claudia Lombard, Heather Wineberg, Sarah Cantrell and Launa Hankins (two) all recorded goals in
the second half to finish the scoring. Courtney Robertson and Jen Lake split time in goal to record the shutout.

Although the score doesn’t reflect it, Davidson exhibited complete dominance in a 2-0 win over Campbell Saturday. Sprinkle and Browett
scored goals for the ‘Cats. Lombard assisted Browett’s goal and claimed the new team record for assists in a season
with nine. Goalkeeper Liz Schaper directed defenders Colleen Camaione, Jody Lewis, Jenny Satterfield and Shannon Lowrance in recording her first
shutout of the season.

ISAA SOCCER POLL

1. Virginia
2. Duke
3. St John's
12. Washington
13. N.C. State
23. New Mexico
14. George Mason
15. Penn State
15. Clemson (tie)
16. Boston U.
30. Davidson
16. Wisconsin-Green Bay
17. Southern Methodist
Santa Clara
Coastal Carolina

COLLEGE GRADUATES

Put your education to work--become a Lawyer's Assistant "The Career for the 90's" at The National Center for Paralegal Training
Oldest and largest graduate-levelAmerican Bar Association-approved program in the Southeast. Over 1,000 employers in 38 states have hired our graduates.
A month day program with housing available. Specialize in Litigation, Diversified Curriculum, Corporations, or Real Estate & Probate; all courses
include “Computers in the Law.” Meet with our representative Tuesday, November 3, 9:00-11:30. Contact College Placement Office for an appointment.
Call or write for a free brochure and more information. The National Center for Paralegal Training 3414 Peachtree Road, Atlanta,
GA 30326. College Phone (day) (____).

The Wildcats had a great desire to win this match since Belmont had been scheduled to play here for homecoming
weekend, but never arrived. Hence, the game was rescheduled for Belmont’s homecoming weekend at its home field. About thirty Davidson
fans made the long and confusing road trip to see what promised to be a great rugby match. With the
support of a crowd and the sour feelings of having been stood up at their own homecoming, the Davidson club
was set for a battle of honor and revenge. The Wildcats, having endured such a long layoff, lacked intensity and
organization throughout the game, yet managed to avenge the homecoming no-show by winning 10-5.

Belmont took the lead early in the first half, scoring a try. Davidson nearly scored two tries in a period
of about five minutes but was not rewarded for its efforts. Finally, after the third try about two minutes later,
the official obliged the Wildcats with a try. This try was scored by John Walsh, beautifully set up by a
block from Mike Savona. Blocking is illegal in rugby, but hey, that’s the idea of rugby. Shortly afterwards, Scotch Turner
drove in a try of his own to raise the score to 10-5.

On Halloween, Davidson took on Guilford College, a Division I powerhouse. Despite lacking seven starters, the Wildcats managed to defeat
Guilford and show how much they have improved. The game opened with Guilford scoring a try which was promptly matched
by an amazing run from Matt Dormer to score one of his two tries for the day. Davidson played much
better this week than last, with many standout performances. Menacing Mike Kessler was a crushing machine, as well as a
bulldozer on the field. Henry Neale and Walsh played great games in the backfield. The pack, with Geoffrey M‘Allen playing
hooker, did an excellent job supporting the runners. The backs deserve credit for the high level of play as well,
because they played a technically sound game with a minimal number of knock-ons.

Finally, Davidson is back to the caliber of rugby which it is capable of playing. If the team continues to
play as it did on Halloween, they will be in a position to win the Division II title this fall
and next spring. The next and final home game of the season is on November 14 against Wake Forest.

Davidson 202 South Main Street Davidson 896-8700

Wonderful Jewelry Featured at Tinkham's
- BOMA Sterling Silver
- Hogan Bolas Bronze Earrings
- Wild Bryde Hand-Crafted 14K Overlay
- Vintage Costume & Antique Jewelry
ALL EXCEPTIONALLY PRICED!

Tinkham's Curiosity Shop

Tuesday-Friday 10-4
Saturday 10-3
