THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992 13 Sports

ON THE SPORTS FRONT ROBERT GRUBB

Since it seems like pretty much everybody on campus is mad at someone or something.

Men's Hoops Tops Miami of the Big East, Falls to UNC-Wilmington at Belk Arena

By Chris Hood

When Davidson and UNC Wilmington left the court at halftime Monday evening, Wildcat supporters had to be feeling fairly confident about the coming half’s prospects. Jason Zimmerman’s three-point bomb with three seconds left in the first half pushed the ‘Cats ahead 38-37. Furthermore, Davidson was at home and coming off two close victories, the more recent being a 66-62 triumph over Miami (FL) two nights earlier.

Much to the dismay of the Wildcat faithful, however, Davidson could only muster seven points in the first 11 minutes of the second half. Though the Seahawks were also unable to mount an impressive offensive charge, they took advantage of a strong performance from Janko Narat, who finished with a career-high-tying 23 points, and defeated Davidson 71-68 to leave the ‘Cats at 7-10 heading into Saturday’s match against UNC Charlotte.

The two squads matched up quite evenly in the first half, as neither was ever more than four points ahead. Zimmerman provided the primary offensive thrust for the ‘Cats, tallying all of his 13 points in the opening stanza. J.D. Heuer added eight points, including two three-pointers. At the break, each school had made 15 of 31 attempts from the field; both also had sunk four three-point shots. The difference was at the free-throw line, where the ‘Cats outscored the Seahawks 4-3.

Head Coach Bob McKillop outlined Davidson’s second-half strategy rather simply: “We felt we had to come out and give them the knockout punch right away.” Instead, Davidson began the second half lethargically, scoring only twice from the field in the first 11 minutes. Ron Horton and Narat both scored in the paint to cut the deficit to 52-49 with 8:08 left, but two minutes later the Seahawks’ Keith Adkins was allowed an easy layup, and Davidson was behind 57-50.

The remainder of the contest saw the ‘Cats struggling to catch up with the visitors. A Narat three-pointer narrowed the gap to 59-57 with just under four minutes left, and a Frank Harris layup after a steal left Davidson trailing only 63-62 with 2:10 to play. UNC Wilmington’s final eight points came from the free-throw line, with Reggie Veney scoring half of them. Narat hit a pair of three-pointers in heavy traffic with under a minute in the game to keep the ‘Cats close, but Davidson was forced to foul after each shot. Adkins and Mark Eaton each made both free throws, and Narat’s three-point attempt just before the final buzzer missed the mark, saddling Davidson with the loss.

“We were at the point where you have to convert,” a dejected McKillop commented. He also stressed turnovers and a passive effort on the offensive boards as contributors to the defeat.

Against Miami two nights earlier, Davidson fans left Belk Arena in more jovial spirits. Harris knocked down five of six free throws in the final minute, including two...with four seconds remaining, to seal the victory. “I’m the point guard, and when it’s crunch time I want the ball to be in my hands,” he stated. The 'Cats began swiftly, enjoying first-half leads of eight points on two separate occasions in jumping out to a 16-8 advantage in the first nine minutes of play. A pair of three-pointers from Zimmerman paced the early Davidson attack. Five minutes later the contest was even at 20, and the two squads battled back and forth before a Jim Kieserman layup with time running out gave the Hurricanes a 31-28 bulge at the intermission.

After giving up the first five points of the second half, the 'Cats settled down and matched the Hurricanes’ 40 points when Narat nailed a three-point bucket with 13:12 remaining. Davidson regained the lead, 42-40, on George Spain’s tip-in with 12:24 left. From that point Harris took over, notching 13 of the team’s final 24 points with a series of impressive drives and clutch free throws. Harris’ 15 points led the 'Cats, while Zimmerman added 14 (including four three-pointers) and Narat contributed 12. The victory marked Davidson’s first conquest of Miami and first triumph over a Big East school.

Wrestlers Place at Mid-South Tournament
By Robert Grubb

The wrestling team turned in one of its finest performances of the season at the Mid-South Tournament on Feb. 1, according to Coach Tom Oddo. The Wildcats have not had more than one wrestler place in the Mid-South Tournament in the past eight years. This year three wrestlers, Robbie Fierro, Sam Knowles, and Jimmy Stewart, all took fourth place.

“The team wrestled the best they have all year against tough competition,” said Oddo. “No one really folded up.”

Fierro had an exciting overtime bout early in the match to get the team pumped up. Fierro was tied 1-1 after the seven-minute regulation. Neither wrestler scored in the three-minute overtime. Fierro managed to put the match away by scoring a lone point in the 30-second sudden-death overtime. Oddo was pleased with Fierro’s wrestling. “Robbie’s victory was even better because it came against an opponent who had beaten him before,” said Oddo.

Knowles also scored two impressive victories, 13-0 and 13-1 decisions which Oddo praised as the best Davidson performances of the tournament. Knowles also led the Wildcats at the Washington and Lee Tournament on Jan. 25, with a second-place finish. Stewart also took second. The team was helped to its fourth-place finish by Scott Townsend and Craig Wall’s third-place finishes.

See "Wrestling" on page 15

THE SWEDISH PROGRAM
STOCKHOLM UNIVERSITY

Study abroad in Stockholm, Sweden with The Swedish Program at Stockholm University.
Instruction is in English.
Course offerings are diverse, for example: women and equality, environmental studies, international relations, Scandinavian literature, public policy, history of the Vikings, politics, health care.
Live with a Swedish family or in a university dormitory.
Witness the dramatic changes reshaping Europe on our excursions to Berlin and Budapest.
For more information please contact your Study Abroad Advisor or call The Swedish Program office at Hamilton College (315) 859-4404.