2 THE DAVIDSONIAN | NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

Hasty Leaves Davidson With Some Final Thoughts

(CPS) - Animal rights activists have scheduled protests across the country on Mother’s Day weekend to draw attention to the
“inhumane and unsanitary conditions” associated with the production of milk-fed veal. The May 10 protests are being coordinated by the
Farm Animal Reform Movement. Among other things, FARM says that young calves are chained in tiny crates and forced to
stand or lie in excrement and be force-fed a synthetic liquid diet that keeps the animals barely alive for 16
weeks until slaughter. The treatment is designed to make the animal’s flesh pale and soft for gourmet dining. FARM President
Dr. Alex Hershaft said Mother’s Day was particularly appropriate for the nationwide protest because the holiday is traditionally identified with
love, compassion, and the bond between mother and child.

Mercury Contributes To Vote Project

(CPS) - Mercury Records has promised to contribute $1 from the sale of every CD and cassette of “Say What
U Want” to a project that stresses the importance of registering to vote. “Say What U Want,” a collection of
songs about free speech by artists such as Michelle Shocked and Simple Minds, will be released June 23 by PolyGram
on Mercury Records. According to a statement from the record company, $1 from every sale will go to Rock The
Vote’s registration drive targeting young people in anticipation of the 1992 elections. “We the people... have unalienable rights which our
forefathers fought to establish and which we take for granted every day,” according to the release. “These rights are under
attack. Measures contradictory to the U.S. Constitution have already been implemented. We shouldn’t wait until our rights to freedom of
speech and expression are taken away before we take notice and do something about it.”

Western Rivers Top Endangered List

WASHINGTON (CPS) - Poor land use, pollution, engineering projects, and water diversions are endangering North America’s rivers, particularly those in
the West, according to a non-profit group. American Rivers held a news conference April 8, along with U.S. Sens. Al
Gore (D-Tenn) and Mark Hatfield (R-Ore.) to call for new protection for North America’s rivers. “By making the public aware
of the major threats facing our most remarkable rivers, the prospects for protecting river resources everywhere improve immeasurably,” said Kevin
Coyle, president of American Rivers. The top river system on the endangered list for 1992 is the Columbia and Snake
River system in Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.

Local Executive, Rodgers, Donates Scholarship

By Kevin Miller

B. D. Rodgers, chairman of Rodgers Builders Inc. of Charlotte, and his wife Pat, are donating $100,000 to Davidson over
the next five years for the establishment of the B.D. Rodgers Scholarship Fund. The grant will provide need-based scholarships for
graduates of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg County public school system and will be awarded for the first time to members of the
upcoming Class of 1996. President John W. Kuykendall thanked Rodgers and his wife for the gift by saying, “This commitment
is great news! I know personally what a difference it will make for a prospective student. A scholarship like the
one Pat and B.D. have established helped me come from Myers Park High School to Davidson years ago. Their gift
will help Davidson continue to build a student body of the highest caliber, even as assistance programs shrink all across
the country.” Need-based scholarships are one of the main goals of the national Campaign for Davidson, the five-year $150 million
fundraising effort to increase endowments for faculty positions, student scholarships, academic resources, capital improvements, and annual operating expenses. The Rodgers
scholarship brings the total grants received during the Campaign to $95.7 million (after only two years in existence).

Ethnic Studies Continued from page 1

appoint either one of these two people, or we will start a new search again next year.” Student Government Association
President Anthony Foxx supports the new Ethnic Studies concentration saying, “I think that there is extraordinary potential for an Ethnic
Studies concentration to make an impact on Davidson students.” Foxx also said that, “there can be a link between [the
concentration] and the tensions that have been on campus.” Williams agreed with Foxx, saying, “if these issues can be dealt
with explicitly as part of an academic program as well as in social settings, that is good.”

By Jeff George

On April 2, the Davidson community received an announcement that Chuck Hasty, the college Chaplain, would be moving on to
a new position next year. On April 23, I had the opportunity to talk with him about the past, present,
and future. When asked about his accomplishments in the past three years, Hasty responded immediately. “On one level, I have
been the most satisfied by the growth of the students I’ve been close to. That has been humbling and amazing
to me,” he said. He cited examples of members of the class of ’93, who entered Davidson during the same
year he did, and many of the students who have been influenced by his teachings. He went on to say,
“On the second level, I hope that people are more aware of the chaplain’s office and of the activities that
come out of it, especially opportunities for worship.” Hasty spoke of his efforts to draw the Davidson community together by,
in his own words, “breaking down the barrier that the railroad tracks represent. I’ve been encouraged by the heightened awareness
and focused energy of bringing the Davidson [community] across the tracks and the Davidson college community together,” he said. On
the subject of the recent campus unrest and the difficulties that we have begun to address, Hasty was both optimistic
and hopeful. “I see this past year as being pivotal in the transition to a more loving community. That means
going beyond mere tolerance,” he said. He talked about racial tension, the establishment of the F.L.A.G. chapter, the debate over
the alcohol policy, and numerous other recent issues, by saying simply, “I hope that theseIssues will not be swept under
the rug.” Hasty’s impact as an energetic, spiritual leader has been especially felt by the students. Stephen Hill, a rising
junior, spoke eloquently of the influence the Chaplain has had in his life. “He’s really brought energy to this campus,
I think, both socially and spiritually. He’ll be missed by everyone, even people who didn’t know him quite as well
as I do,” he said. Hasty spoke with enthusiasm about his new position as pastor of See "Hasty" on page
5.

Kennedy-Cuomo Promotes Human Rights
By John David Semones

The 900 room was full this past Wednesday as students, faculty, and members of the community gathered to hear guest
speaker, Kerry Kennedy-Cuomo. After graduating from Brown University in 1982 and Boston College Law School in 1987, Cuomo became an
international human rights lawyer. Mrs. Cuomo is executive director for the Center for Human Rights and founder of the Robert
F. Kennedy Memorial Center for Human Rights, named in honor of her father, the late senator.

As executive director of the Robert F. Kennedy Center, Cuomo works with human rights centers around the world. In countries
such as Kenya, Chile, and Czechoslovakia, the Center works to fund libraries and promote education. As an international human rights
lawyer, Cuomo is able to work with specific individuals, even young teenagers, who are bold enough to stand up and
fight for the basic rights we take for granted. “These are today’s heroes,” commented Cuomo.

In her speech, “Promoting Human Rights and Public Service,” Cuomo described what is involved in the commitment to fight for
human rights. Commitment, she said, involves asking ourselves the questions, “What are the difficulties we face?”, “Can we achieve peace?”,
and “What can I do to help?” Cuomo also commented that, “when the most powerful democratic country in the world
fails to feed its own hungry or house its own homeless, the war goes on--there is no peace.”

Mrs. Cuomo recently did a commentary for the television show Network Earth. As part of her presentation, Cuomo showed the
video which will be airing on local TV within the next two weeks. For Network Earth, Cuomo traveled to an
island in the Philippines to talk with human rights workers who are fighting to save their rainforests. The island, which
houses the largest remaining tropical rainforest in the Philippines, is under siege by loggers who are clear-cutting the forests at
an incredible rate.

Cuomo spoke with members of Haribon, the largest environmental group on the island, who have been fighting the loggers since
the group’s start in 1988. Cuomo was taken by boat and shown the areas where rampant and highly illegal logging
was happening. Tribal leaders cite the excessive logging as the cause for food shortages and for silting (which destroys the
rivers and other water sources). Journalists who have tried to cover the logging story along with members of Haribon have
been slapped with lawsuits and threatened by the more powerful logging companies.

Cuomo congratulated the human rights programs here at Davidson and was amazed at the fact that over fifty percent of
the student body is involved in community service. She concluded with words of encouragement for the Davidson programs and with
the wish that even more students would become involved in protecting human rights in the future.

Food Drive Raises 15 Tons... Of Red Tape
By Kevin Miller

The Russian aid program organized by exchange student Oleg Ordinartsev, Mrs. Rosemarie Raynol and her husband, Dr. Charles Raynal, raised
three times its original food goal by collecting 735 boxes of food (15 tons) and five boxes of medical supplies
all throughout the month of March. These boxes were to fly to Moscow, via a United States Air Force aircraft,
and then be taken to Pyatigorsk, Ordinartsev’s small hometown, to be distributed to members of a church there.

On March 28, the boxes, which came from many Presbyterian churches and organizations in Charlotte and around North Carolina (only
two actually came from Davidson College), were unloaded at a Charlotte National Guard Air Force base. The unloading, which took
about three hours to complete, was done by about thirty volunteers from the National Guard, about twenty-five volunteers from the
Davidson, Elkin and Concord Community, and about fifteen members of SAE fraternity. The event was covered by two area news
channels and two area radio stations.

Unfortunately, this took place over four weeks ago, and the boxes are still sitting at the base. Why? Well, apparently
the State Department, who originally organized the food to reach by air, planned to ship the goods by boat. Yet,
in the process of some refiling of applications by the group from Davidson (they had to do some reapplying when
they realized that they were going to achieve 15 tons) to Washington, the State Department lost the papers. Therefore, the
National Guard commander who has been waiting for word from Washington on where and when to take the boxes, has
heard nothing about the drop-off point.

On learning of the “lost papers,” Ordinartsev and Raynol faxed copies of their applications again to the State Department, and
attempted to find out when, where, and how the food could be shipped. Again, the State Department had no answers
because they have to wait for the Secretary of State to “re-okay” the process. So, in essence, the 15 tons
could sit on the base for an even longer time than it already has.

Ordinartsev did say though, “I'd like to thank all of the people who helped in the collection of the food.
The effort has been extremely wonderful. I’d also like to thank the members of SAE who came out and helped
unload the boxes. They made a huge difference.” Ordinartsev also reemphasized the fact that the Russian people will be and
already are very grateful for the huge amount of food and supplies. Hopefully, those people will get to see that
shipment in the near future.
