THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

Coles claims that people like Ruby Bridges fulfill the prophecy that the first will be last and the last will be first. He shared with the audience the same warning he gives his Harvard students: despite the many benefits of education, it can easily lead to the pride of intellect, which St. Augustine saw as a deadly sin. Intellectual arrogance can destroy the goodness and compassion in anyone. In our search for purpose, Coles places great emphasis on teaching and learning. He asks questions like, “Where does goodness come from?” and “How does one lead a moral life?” We can learn the answers to these questions from each other. Rather than just surviving with intellect, Coles challenges people to live and learn with our hearts and souls. Coles ended his lecture on an optimistic note. He encouraged the audience to maintain hope, saying there is a side other than that which is skeptical or cynical. Take to heart the lessons taught by Jesus and the prophets of Israel, as well as the wisdom in the literature of Raymond Carver and Chekhov.

He is currently due to receive his Master of Arts in Political Science from West Virginia University in December.

The position of Patterson Court Advisor was created, according to Richard Terry, because as “the campus and college have grown, we needed somebody as a liaison (to the Court).” He said, “His job is to make sure students are represented in the process.” Terry said that it is important to have somebody who can deal with this every day and give it constant attention. “I think students appreciate the attention this is getting. He is somebody they can go to, who will listen to them,” said Terry. Terry said of Holmes, “Everybody who has dealt with him has been impressed.”

The Davidsonian recently had a chance to talk with Kurt Holmes. Below are excerpts from that interview:

Davidsonian: What exactly are the specific duties of your job?

Holmes: In essence, the job is designed to be proactive and to try and avoid problems and work with the Court in a positive sense, helping them work through the changes in the alcohol policy and anything else that comes up along the way. An example would be easing the process of getting work orders completed or projects that the houses are undertaking and that sort of thing, basically positive things. In practice, the last few weeks it’s been almost exclusively alcohol policy and monitors. The other half of my position is with residence life. I am going to be doing a lot of programming with the RA’s and residence halls, pretty much helping the RA’s get some skills in programming and offer things for the students.

Davidsonian: With your title, a lot of people don’t realize that half of your job is working with Residence Life. Talk about this a little more.

Holmes: Well, in reference to starting a required programming, I am supposed to do some educational programming and some social programs. Davidson doesn’t carry requirements like that for the Residence Life staff and we’re trying to encourage the RA’s to do more things within the residence halls, for their floor orbuilding. That could be -*EARN EXTRA INCOME* Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to: Travel INC., PO Box 2530, Miami FL. 33161. Something as simple as movie nights, study breaks, social events, or some educational programming. People may be interested in certain topics regarding sports, academics, study skills, and those kinds of things. We’re trying to make the dorms into more of a residence community and not just a place where people sleep.

Davidsonian: Why do you think Davidson needs a Patterson Court advisor?

Holmes: When I interviewed in the middle of July there weren’t a whole lot of students here, so it wasn’t a real good estimation of what goes on on the Court. I had to base any judgments I had on what people had told me about the Court. I guess I probably came into it with more of a prior experience assessment of what a fraternity system and a Court of social houses like that is like. I worked previously at Washington and Jefferson College and somewhat with fraternities there. It wasn’t specifically in my job description to do that, but again it was a small campus and you can’t help but overlap some. I spent four years working with my fraternity, Theta Chi, on the national level as a regional counselor working with a couple of chapters in West Virginia, four in western Pennsylvania and a couple in Ohio. So, I had more of a broad-based experience on how they run the systems at various institutions. They’re all different but there is also a lot of carry-over. I think that any system, I use the words Greek system even though technically the women’s houses aren’t Greek organizations but they’re still social affiliations, needs someone to put the time in to be proactive with them. There’s a lot of need for the specifics of that and a lot of opportunities for students to do things that you don’t have at other clubs, but if you’re left out hanging in the wind many times you’re left hanging out to dry. When problems come you need to have an advocate. My job shouldn’t be necessarily the person who’s chastising people or works on the discipline side of the fraternity. It should be more the person who is helping them get past the problems. By virtue that there wasn’t someone, I would probably assume that there should have been years ago. It taxes Dean Terry’s time to try to give attention to what they need and I think that the Court was probably getting short-changed in the amount of hours someone put into assisting them.

Davidsonian: How do you think it will affect your position having not been here last year under an old alcohol policy and having to see people adjust to a new one?

Holmes: Half the time I wish I had been here to help with the process of developing the policy. It’s tough to walk into an established policy on paper that is not established in practice and to try and implement it. Another side of me enjoys the fact that I am detached from the creators.

See "Holmes" on page 6

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

Standing: G.A. McClung, Jeff Crain, Eric Rosenbach, Pat Malcor, Joc Beach, Lisa Ruddick, Pat White, Mike Rogerson, Jason Morris, Matt McKinney, Matt Pitzer, Giorgio Hiatt, Caroline Lemley. Kneeling: Tony Porcaro, Mark Wittschen, Jon Peters, Sean Harvey, Julia Brown, Kelly Davis, Jennifer Brown, David Harding. Sitting: Rob Townsend, Ben Balsicy, Tom Shelbume, Darren Moore, Richard Rivera. Not Pictured: Bo Bartholomew, Tom Greene, Shane Mills, Bill Pomeroy, Rion Smith.

ARMY ROTC SALUTES OUR SCHOLARSHIP WINNERS.

Every year Army ROTC awards thousands of merit-based scholarships to qualified students around the country and right here in your school. These scholarships pay most tuition, as well as books, lab fees and an allowance up to $1000/year. But more than that, Army ROTC is one course that develops your leadership abilities and confidence, qualities that lead to success.