10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

Davidson Arts

Countdown to Groundbreaking Continues For Davidson's New $7.1M Visual Arts Center

By Chris Hoveland

The groundbreaking ceremony for the Davidson College Visual Arts Center will take place on April 23. The $7.1 million Center will be built at the corner of Main and Griffith Streets, now the location of the Main Street parking lot. The building will house all the Studio, Art History, and gallery aspects of the Art Department. Planning for the project began in 1984, and has gone through many alterations. Now it appears, much to the Art Department’s approval and anticipation, that the Visual Arts Center will open for the fall term of 1993. The Music and Theater Departments will remain in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

The first floor of the Visual Arts Center will contain facilities such as sculpture studios (a completely new study for Davidson College), and a large printmaking studio. Also located on the first floor will be a student gallery, the William H. Van Every Gallery for large exhibits, a lecture auditorium, and two additional classrooms. Located on the second floor will be three drawing studios, two painting studios, and faculty offices with adjacent studios. Art majors will be able to take advantage of seven private studios. Studio Art professor Herb Jackson explained, “This will give majors a chance to feel what it's like to be on their own, outside of Davidson.” Students will be granted this privilege on a competitive basis. The Arts Center was designed...

Artists Series Presents Versatile Vocal Group "Quink"

Courtesy of College Relations

The Dutch vocal group “Quink,” a quintet comfortable with a repertoire ranging from Renaissance madrigals to contemporary music, will sing a Valentine’s Day concert at Davidson College on Friday, February 14. The 8:15 p.m. Artists Series performance will be held in Love Auditorium of Chambers Building. Admission for those who do not hold season tickets is $10 for adults and $5 for students.

Quink debuted in 1978 at the Holland Festival, and quickly emerged as a unique professional ensemble. The five singers, who are also active as soloists, sing a cappella songs representing five centuries of music. They are regularly invited to international music festivals in Europe, and have recorded on the Etcetera and CBS labels. Quink’s most recent compact discs, on Telarc, include a collection of Italian Renaissance madrigals, an offering of Christmas carols, and a CD of international folk songs. They also recently released a compact disc of songs by Ralph Vaughan Williams and Gerald Finzi on the Fidelio label.

Quink’s first United States tour was in 1985, and they have returned twice a year ever since. Past tours have included residencies at Dartmouth and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. The group’s name comes from a combination of three other words: “quint,” meaning five people, “kwinkeren,” a Dutch word for the singing of birds, and “kwinkslag,” a Dutch word meaning a joke. The name aptly fits their pure, sweet...

From the Desk of the I.P.C.: The Year's Last Stormy Monday Blues Night Featuring Tinsley Ellis

By Chris Hoveland

Guitarist Tinsley Ellis played at the 900 Room last Monday night to 150 responsive “blues-ers.” Songs such as the gut-wrenching “Born in Georgia,” and the upbeat “Deaf, Dumb, Crippled, and Blind” proved that Ellis came to Davidson with more than just a few licks up his sleeve. Tinsley Ellis has been called “a bent note specialist whose style recalls early Clapton and Stevie Ray Vaughan,” and whose voice “carries a warmth and melancholy which greatly enriches his material.” Others have noted that “he just might be ready to explode onto the national scene.” Ellis played with the Atlanta-based “Heartfixers,” recording four albums with them before taking...style and its humorous moments. They closed a performance last year with Paul Patterson’s “Spare Parts,” a bluesy take-off on the Frankenstein story, and “Sag mir nicht ‘adieu,’” an imitation of a 1930s recording complete with static and skips. The critics have not made jokes about Quink. The New York Times praised Quink’s collection of Benjamin Britten works, saying it “reveals Quink’s elegant phrasing, impeccable intonation and a purity of tone reminiscent of Renaissance madrigals.” For more information on the Davidson performance, call the College Union at 892-2140.

After heavy touring and two albums, Georgia Blue and Fanning the Flames, the bluesman has made quite a name for himself in and outside of the Southeast. His albums prove his songwriting talent, as well as his already famous guitar handling. He is known as a hard-working musician, touring more than 200 dates per year.

The exterior might be described as “contemporary,” but the architects, according to Jackson, were restricted in their design. A college brochure states that the building will “effectively complement the neoclassical style of the neighboring structures.” The interior of the building, however, will certainly distinguish itself from others on campus. Upon entering from the east side (Main Street), one will pass through the foyer and enter the atrium. This spacious room will be two floors high with a glass ceiling, allowing sunlight to enter.

The Development Office, with cooperation from other offices and Herb Jackson, has taken several routes to fund the Visual Arts Center. One plan is to raise money through an art auction. Auction participants will pay $1000 to attend, and proceeds will go toward the construction costs. There are also what are called “commemorative opportunities;” for instance, the donor of $500,000 may choose between having the painting studios, the lecture auditorium, or another room named after him or her in recognition of their generosity. The building will be named after whoever donates $3 million.

See "Visual Arts” on page 11

Whistlin' Dixie
Matt Bumstead

Well, I bet you thought I’d given up! ‘Fraid not. No, country music is riding high and has a firm grasp on America’s attention; and so I’ve still got a lot to talk about. This semester, I’ll try to bring up some more developments in and aspects of the country music world. We’ll get some belated album reviews, maybe a reader’s poll, and, we hope, some more fun stuff.

1991 was a monolithic year in Nashvegas. With Mr. Brooks leading the way, record sales and national attention to country artists is at an unprecedented high. As we begin 1992, many questions fill the minds of the industry and its followers: will country decline in popularity this year? (Can the frenzy possibly escalate?) Can Garth Brooks continue to dominate the airwaves? What’s next in country?

Women in Country — With these questions in mind, I thought it somewhat appropriate to spend two weeks singling out the biggest movers and shakers in the country arena. This week, I'll rank the top ten females; next week it’ll be the guys’ turn. Now, this ranking system is, of course, my very own patented formula; and rankings will be based on popularity, talent, momentum, and personal preference. I am simply ranking the artists as I see them standing today and in the near future. So, here we go...

1. Reba McEntire — She’s still the best and the most popular. Live or in the studio, no one can match her energetic, commanding presence. She is the reigning champ, and she should

See "Bumstead” on page 11