THE DAVIDSONIAN  
MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief  
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor  
TOM PRICE - Associate Editor  
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor  
KEVIN MILLER - News Editor  
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor  
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor  
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor  
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor  
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor  

The Davidsonian  
Founded in 1914  
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”  

ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager  
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager  
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager  
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager  
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager  

Committee Did Poor Job

On February 10, President John Kuykendall charged the Select Committee on Alleged Intolerance “with the task of investigating the several indications of harassment and intolerance, with special attention to reports of incidents involving individuals or groups on Patterson Court.” This investigative body was never charged with making recommendations or proposing punitive sanctions. In a letter to the campus community, Kuykendall explicitly says, “The committee’s task was not judicial.” Yet, instead of fulfilling its role as a fact-finding body, the committee did recommend sanctions and has, in effect, assumed a judicial role in the Davidson community.

The “Carolina Alumni Review” magazine reported on the work of a specially appointed committee in its Spring issue. In November of 1990, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Chancellor Paul Hardin appointed a committee on “Community and Diversity,” with the charge to “assess the condition of community” at his university. While it is somewhat comforting to know that problems of community intolerance are not unique to Davidson, it is downright embarrassing to compare the professionalism of UNC’s committee to that of Davidson's “Select Committee.” The Chapel Hill group was a 22-member committee which spent an entire year analyzing, interviewing, and studying their campus before summarizing their findings. The “Select Committee” determined after three weeks of research and interviews with less than 2% of the student body, that drastic and fundamental changes were necessary to restore community to Davidson.

The first mistake in this matter was the composition of the committee. Dean of Faculty Robert Williams was selected as chairman of the group of six. It is absurd for the Dean of Faculty to oversee the direction of a committee charged with investigating student life. We find it difficult to imagine the appointment of Dean of Students Will Terry to serve on a committee investigating faculty concerns. Although the committee was specifically instructed to examine carefully the role of Patterson Court in the Davidson community, not one Patterson Court member was selected for the committee. Of the two students chosen, one never joined a house on the Court and the other deactivated from his fraternity. These two students are hardly representative of a campus in which more than 70% of the women are members of eating houses, and 60% of the men are fraternity members. Of the two professors chosen to serve, one was on sabbatical for the entire 1990-91 school year. Finally, College Chaplain Chuck Hasty was selected as a member of the committee under the guise that he would maintain an objective outlook towards the evidence presented. Hasty, however, signed his name to the controversial flier circulated weeks ago which irresponsibly charged the SAE fraternity with various incidents of impropriety. His signing of this letter should have disqualified his participation in the “Select Committee” since the committee decided to expand their role and suggest sanctions. Furthermore, The Davidsonian believes that the College Chaplain should maintain a neutral stance from which he could bring opposing sides together and his membership on the committee makes this difficult.

Perhaps the most disturbing and shocking result of the Committee's report is the slanderous conclusions they reach. After interviewing 45 people and only 29 students, the committee somehow felt comfortable in making such leading statements as, "Some students believe that the SAEs are a fraternity of wealth, influence, and untouchability” and “Some SAEs are the sons of Davidson alumni and trustees and were admitted as legacies.” To paint the picture they did on the basis of their limited “research,” is unprofessional and grossly unfair. Their unsupported characterizations weren't limited to the SAE house either. A decidedly negative interpretation of Patterson Court was also unfair, though not surprising since Patterson Court houses weren’t adequately represented on the committee. To an outsider, or in the worst case a prospective student, a reading of the report makes Patterson Court seem more dangerous than a big city street corner. While no one is denying that the Court has been the scene for several unfortunate incidents, we believe that the vast majority of Davidson students would disagree with the report’s characterization. Furthermore, the committee chose to ignore the positive attributes of the court (Yes, there are some). An opportunity was missed and their work has only contributed to the common feeling among the student body that the administration and faculty fail to understand their concerns. Many students read the report and their only reaction was, “What?!”

The patched relationship between SAE and Rusk and the work of the Honor Council illustrate that student life problems are best handled by students. Yet the committee’s work led Chuck Hasty to say that the report is “a call to the faculty to be involved in the total life of the community.” The faculty should be involved members of the community, but their influence over student life should be limited. The recent quiet dorm proposal, which was found to be opposed by a whopping 93% of students, was another example of faculty overstepping their bounds. The “Select Committee” simply was not representative of the student body - a fact students realize with one quick reading. Student representation should have accounted for at least half of the committee.

It is our hope that President Kuykendall will be successful in sifting through this skewed analysis of life at Davidson to find value in their report. Although this editorial has concentrated on the negatives,The report does have some merit. Problems exist and the committee's formation was a good idea. It is simply unfortunate that by limiting their investigation and by failing to count for all elements of the community, the committee's report amounts to an overzealous and largely reckless overreaction to the school’s problems.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Rusk President Announces Reinstatement of Functions with Fraternity

To the Davidson Community:

On Tuesday, February 4, Rusk House passed a motion by secret ballot to suspend co-sponsorship of parties and social functions with SAE for the rest of the semester. This motion, submitted anonymously by members of Rusk, was written in response to several specific incidents that had occurred at SAE, as well as a general feeling of fear or apprehension that the authors had sensed building among Rusk members over time. After much discussion, the motion was approved by an overwhelming majority of the members, with only 19 opposing votes.

However, given time to consider the effects of such action, Rusk members decided that possibly a semester's suspension of activities would be counterproductive in light of our hopes for improved relations and greater respect from the SAE’s. After a house meeting with a delegation from SAE present for discussion and questioning, where we had a chance to openly express our concerns, demand explanations and action regarding them, and hear the delegation’s genuine commitment to address the allegations facing their fraternity, we thoughtfully evaluated our decision, coming to a consensus to uphold the motion with the added option to re-vote in six weeks.

On Tuesday, March 17, the floor was again opened for discussion regarding our suspension of social functions with SAE. Statements were made highlighting the internal changes that SAE has made or pledged to make, the noticed shift in the general attitude of the brothers, and the importance of giving them a chance to put their promises into action. A vote was called for, and by secret ballot, the house voted 102 to 58 to retract our sanction and begin having parties with SAE, with the expectation that their promised changes be upheld and carried out. Although co-sponsorship is not possible at this time due to SAE's pending probation, Rusk would theoretically be willing to work with SAE if allowed.

I point this out because I think that as members of a community under speculation and in which change is necessary...

See "Wallace" on page 11

Landess Cites Importance of Code

To the editor,

Please allow me to make a short case for the importance and value of the Code of Responsibility and how it might pertain to the unfortunate tension between some students at Davidson College. Students at Davidson have long been bound by the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility to conduct themselves in a manner appropriate for mature adults. Significantly, the responsibility for maintaining that level of conduct and sanctioning conduct which does not reach that level is the responsibility of the whole college community, including students, faculty, and administration. Therefore, if any person in any one of these groups complains about the ineffectiveness of the Code of Responsibility or the various mechanisms used to enforce it, they are, in effect, complaining about themselves.

The following excerpts from the Code seem to me to have direct bearing on several incidents of which I have become aware through reports in The Davidsonian and other campus publications. The first excerpt is from the preamble:

The Code of Responsibility is based upon the belief that Davidson’s educational purpose can best be advanced in a context which emphasizes the responsible use of freedom, as opposed to license. The aim of the code is to encourage individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing...

See "Landess" on page 11

McKelway Addresses Quiet Dorms

An Open Letter to Davidson Students

Dear Friends:

A number of you have written or spoken to me in recent days about the issue of quiet dorms or quiet halls. Although the Executive Committee of the Faculty has urged the administration to provide this option for students, it has certainly not intended that such an arrangement be forced upon anyone.

The faculty as such has never passed a motion concerning, or even discussed, quiet dorms. The College Constitution does not empower the faculty to legislate in the area of student life. If we vote to change the curriculum, it is thereby changed. If we voted to have a quiet dorm nothing would happen.

Many faculty do believe, however, that the college has an obligation to recognize diversity also in desired living conditions - and that students have a right to live in a quieter environment if they wish. This is why the Executive Committee has been urging the Dean of Students and the Director of Housing to offer such an environment if (and only if) a sufficient number of students desire it. We understand that under no circumstances ought any student be required to live in such a dorm or hall. For this reason, there would always have to be fewer places available than students have a right to live in a quieter environment if...

See "McKelway" on page 11