_ THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992 4 WALTER PRICE-Editor in Chief SARAH GAYLE-Managing Editor TOM KOONCE-Associate Editor TOM PRICE-Assistant Editor SEAN LIND-News Editor CHRIS FRAMPTON-Opinions Editor CHRIS HOVELAND-Davidson Arts Editor STANCEL RILEY-Davidson Arts Editor BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor _ MIKE CRUISE-Editorial Cartoonist ALEX DANIEL-Production Manager The Davidsonian Founded in 1914 "The South's Foremost College Weekly" HARRISON ROBERTS-Advertising Manager * ANDY COOKE-Business Manager KATRICE SHULER-Circulation Manager Support the Bone Marrow Registry On Wednesday from 9 AM until 4 PM, the Project Life Committee of Davidson will sponsor their third Bone Marrow Drive in the Morrison Room of the Union. Spurred by the experiences of several Davidson students, the group was established in order to recruit potential bone marrow donors. In their three years of existence, the group has successfully registered almost 800 Davidson students, faculty, and staff in the National Bone Marrow Registry, as well as raising over $80,000. (It costs approximately $60.00 to test and type each blood sample.) In a relatively painless procedure, two tablespoons of blood are drawn from an individual. From this sample, it is possible to link an individual with someone in need of a bone marrow transplant, which can cure such blood disorders as leukemia. As Davidson senior David Lindsay, a recipient of such a transplant, says, where else can you find "an easier method of searching and testing for potential miracles"? So on Wednesday, in this season of papers, tests, and stress, take a few minutes out of your schedule to give someone another chance. It is such an easy process and the Project Life Committee needs your support. It can mean a lot: it can mean a life... just ask David. DEAD HEAT DEAD MEAT Letters 7 MATHS Giaein Talks Al To the Editor: I realize, maybe all too well, that the better parts of our nature as human beings truly want to be sympathetic, in touch, concerned, even active with the day-to-day trials of human suffering. People suffer, there is pain. Somehow we have acknowledged this fact, come to terms with its monstrosity in our consciences, and have merely... moved on. Yet I understand the limits upon an individual and what one person thinks he or she can do. We have our work, our friends, our futures—we thrive in a microcosm of a life that we will be filling in its true breadth before we know it. But that does not justify not giving time and energy to human need. I feel we are a privileged few. Have you ever taken a few steps past our delicately structured post office to see the homes beyond? On both a literal and idiomatic level, there is a part of Davidson which lies on the other side of the tracks. Even in this little town, the socioeconomic divisions are so easy to observe. Seeing this on such a small scale, you’d think we would have more active voices and hands in things with a booming city just minutes away. Volunteer. Give time. Give attention. Give love. Promote peace within the person and between each other. Please, let this be a message to those who do not take part, or who are unsure about the service of lending a hand to the local and worldwide struggle to develop human services that is going on right now. From one person to another, I am deeply grateful that many, many individuals on this campus do volunteer, and are concerned with one need or another. For though thisLetter does not have a thrust for a specific effort, there is always a great need for help, for aid. Find something that is calling you. For others who are out there, in this desperate, often tumultuous world, our secure lives look very good from the outside. Give to others some of what you have—security of mind and security in life.

Shayna Chazin

OPINIONS

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Now that the campaign is over, Bush and Clinton will stop yelling at each other and politics will return to where it belongs: in this column, and on the back of cars. Some keep their politics to themselves, some wear it on their sleeves, but the great political debate will always rage when it comes to bumper stickers. Sure they’re tacky. Who wants a hot pink “Arms are for Hugging!” bumper sticker on the back of their racing green Mercedes? If I had a Mercedes or even a Yugo, I would never have something like that on it. I’d put on a better bumper sticker!

Most bumper stickers are liberal. From the run-of-the-mill “Clinton-Gore” stickers you see in satellite (all of the “Bush-Quayle” drivers have enough initiative to get a good spot) to “Get that Warmonger out of the White House!” which is seen on my street in Philly, liberals are quick to make their cars slogan-mobiles. I’ve seen really stupid ones like “Low Income Homes not Atom Bombs,” and also clever lines like “Pot is an Herb, Bush is a Dope.” Oh yes, the sixties are not over; I saw an “I Am Woman, Hear Me Roar” sticker, "My Kid Beat Up Your Honor Student" which prompted me to ask if “roaring” means taking up two parking spaces with a Geo in a shopping mall.

Despite the abundance of left-wing bumper stickers, the right wing have some good ones too. (No, I don’t mean God Is My Copilot.) I’ve seen “This Car Insured by Smith and Wesson,” “Slash and Burn the Rainforest,” “Pave the Bay,” and my favorite, “I Love Animals, They’re Delicious.”

Gull's Nest...Bill Gullan

Bumper Stickers Galore or What I Saw on The Back of a Car

Not all of the stickers we see are political. Older people have been known to place “King of the Road,” or “Look Out, I’m Senile” on their cars. Actually, I haven’t ever seen the second one, but don’t some of these people really need it. Parents have “Baby on Board” signs, which are useful so we know not to hit them. Other messages are spin-offs of these sincere stickers, such as “Baby in Trunk.”

Some people say that their kid is an honor student at such and such school. I’ve always wanted to see “My Kid Just Narrowly Missed the Honor Roll,” or “My Kid is Stupid,” which I’ll probably see on my father’s Taurus at Thanksgiving. Oh, how about this one, “My Kid Beat Up Your Honor Student.” Some folks say where they’ve been. I saw a “Phila-

See "Nest" on page 9