8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Managing Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
SUSAN SHEFFIELD - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

Vote Wisely in Tuesday's Elections

On Tuesday, January 28, the student body will choose the leaders of the Student Government and the Union Board. The editors of the Davidsonian hope that the voters will consider their choices carefully. Most campaigns in recent memory have been based on good looks and almost witty fliers. Jingoistic statements, which too often resemble the “longer recess” platforms of elementary school elections past, garner the attention of the campus while candidates with solid ideas are ignored for lack of flair.

Tuesday’s elections have already been dismissed by many as an unimportant popularity contest. The editors remind those who would not bother to vote that with adequate support, the SGA can actually be a vital organization on this campus. Its weight and strength stem from the faith we as students invest in the body. Please read the candidates’ speeches and their responses to questions on pages 4-7 of this issue. There you will see a few candidates who deserve your votes and your backing, while others do not. Choose carefully, and provide these student organizations with the support required to be a greater force on campus.

A Clarification:

In last week’s editorial “Minus Grades Emphasize the Wrong Aspects of Academia” we advised Dean of Students Will Terry to abandon the “poorly chosen path” of the minus grades system. Dean Terry has asked us to make clear that he has never endorsed the minus grades policy. He has, all along, expressed with vehemence his disapproval of the new system. The editors still hope, however, that the Dean will continue to use his considerable influence on campus with the intention of coaxing the faculty away from their erroneously chosen new grading scale.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

Letters

Palmer Sets the Record Straight

To the Editor,

Your “2007: Toxic Waste...” column indicated that Arnold James had been wronged at Davidson. Given the inaccuracy and its implications, I wanted to set the record straight. I interviewed Arnold at a Southeastern Psychological Association meeting in Washington, D.C., and was immediately impressed by him. He was early in his dissertation work and needed a setting and opportunity which would maximize his chances for successful doctoral work completion. Dean Williams awarded him the Knight Fellowship which placed him at the salary level of new Assistant Professors who had completed their doctorates, and at the same time required his teaching only one course per semester (rather than the usual three). This setting provided him maximal opportunity to concentrate on his dissertation, and he was able to do so with frequent trips to meet with his Committee in Columbia, S.C. Early in his second year, Arnold and I met to discuss his...professional plans and hopes. He expressed a strong desire to be affiliated with an urban-teaching hospital where he could practice his clinical skills while teaching an occasional class. We clearly did not have that setting, and I shared our understanding and support for his professional goals. His clinical internship year at Tulane Medical School had provided tremendous professional excitement for him while meeting the professional goals he envisioned in his future, and he received an excellent opportunity to return there. Arnold had a tremendous growth opportunity and experience here at Davidson, and we in turn grew with him. If we can provide similar growth experiences in the future, we will assuredly have done something special and something very right.

Sincerely,
Edward L. Palmer
Watson Professor and Chair
Department of Psychology

Epps Urges Greater Consideration

To the Editor:

Living in a foreign country for four months inevitably gives one a new perspective. However, as I read the stack of Davidsonians in my room in France, I knew that my disturbance over the contents was the result of more than a different perspective. The newspapers, combined with some articles from the Charlotte Observer, presented a college plagued by negativism and intolerance, which contrasted greatly to the utopic Davidson in my mind to which I dreamed of returning. My angry sadness and disappointment resulted from my acknowledgement of the shortcomings of a school which I love so much.

Given, the Charlotte Observer will take anything negative about our school and blow it out of proportion, and perhaps these were only isolated incidents, but the Davidson community is so tiny and cohesive that any occurrence of intolerance cannot be ignored. In selecting a college, I found Davidson attractive due to its laid-back conservatism. Similar colleges in the North struck me as too open, places so permissive that after four years of exposure, I would emerge with nothing to shock me anymore. At age twenty-two, I would not want to be resigned to callousness.

But Davidson’s conservatism does not and should not have to lead to close-mindedness. With the college’s position as a center of learning for intelligent people, it should follow that the environment would foster the open-minded consideration of new ideas, not the immediate rejection of anything out-of-the-norm. Similarly, a student’s inability to fully understand or relate to the thinking of another should not automatically lead to intolerance. Full understanding is not a prerequisite for the recognition of another’s rights.

Although I consider myself a realist, the idealistic side of me just wants everyone to be treated equally, no matter what. Prejudice of any form should not be tolerated. However, this leads to a contradiction considering my denunciation of all intolerance. We all have our rights to think as we please, but no one has the right to harm another because of conflicts in ways of thinking. Living in a civilized society requires that we all share a strong consideration of others.

I would like to end this rambling with some sort of a message sent down from a pulpit, but one that is imparted friend to friend. This is advice which I need to give myself as well... Before you make another racist joke, before you draw another chauvinistic flier, and before you make another derisive comment concerning homosexuals, stop! Now, consider the feelings of those you will hurt. If this does not deter you, consider yourself. Your actions affect yourself as well. They make you look ignorant.

Sincerely,
Rachel Epps

Letters to the Editor are due by Friday at 1:00 pm for publication the following Monday. All letters must be signed. Letters will be edited for spelling and catastrophic grammatical errors. Minor mistakes in prose will be considered "stylistic."