8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992

Beyond Birkenstock: The Birks Come to the Defense of Phillip Atchison

“The principle of free thought means not free thought for those who agree with us, but freedom for the thought
that we hate.”
-Oliver Wendell Holmes

When Braulio Lopez testified before the honor council on February 14th, he stated that “I was pissed off man, just
the way he called me nigger.” Indeed, the word is an abhorrent and vicious one. Humanity is singular in its
tendency to construct mechanisms to inflict pain upon the individual. Nowhere is this more evident than in the subtle, yet
positively debilitating use of language to hurt another person. Elaine Scarry, in The Body In Pain, considers the subject of
torture and the torturer’s use of language as a means of assault. “The question, whatever its content, is an act
of wounding; the answer, whatever its content, is a scream.” No one, therefore, should ever take words lightly. In its
more progressive aspects, the communication of a literate mind can inspire revolution or destroy tyranny. In its baser existence, however,
the words of an articulate fool can destroy a reputation or engender chaos. In light of the power and potential
violence of words, is Oliver Wendell Holmes correct in defending freedom of thought (and its articulation: in speech) to such
an extent? We believe that the answer is yes, and we’ll attempt to show you why.

Let’s consider for a moment exactly what took place that day and its relation to the penalty. Apparently, two students,
Daniel Lamar and Braulio Lopez (among others), engaged in a verbal exchange that resulted in some fighting, the origin of
which we were unable to discover. However, later that evening, Lamar recounted the evening’s festivities to his drunken roommate, Philip
Atchison. It seems Mr. Atchison telephoned Mr. Lopez to tell Lopez how displeased he was with the night’s events. Actually,
Atchison called and left a message on Lopez’s answering machine stating, “F***ing nigger, you got a lot of nerve, you
just watch your goddamn ass.” Hmm. Upon receiving said message, Mr. Lopez replied in kind to Atchison’s roommate (whom he
apparently thought made the call). Lopez stated in his testimony before the honor council that he “wasn’t threatening... but was
issuing a challenge to go one on one with him to solve this problem.” Hmm again.

Based on this evidence (and Atchison’s confession of guilt), the honor council (a.k.a. The Star Chamber) convicted Mr. Atchison of
violating Section IV of the Alcohol Revised Code of Responsibility: Misconduct Which Affects the Rights of Persons. Specifically, he was
found guilty of placing an “obscene or harassing phone call.” Problem number one: How does Mr. Atchison’s call differ from
Mr. Lopez’s? Problem number two: What exactly is a harassing or obscene phone call? Problem number three: Why is harassment
by phone specifically targeted? Problem number four: What is “hate speech” and how does it relate to nia, 1973)? Atchison
must then have been convicted on the basis of harassment. And what is harassment? According to Random House, to “harass”
is to “trouble by repeated attacks, incursions, etc... to disturb persistently, torment, pester or persecute.” This definition implies duration of
assault and would therefore tend to exclude an individual action. Further, the intent of the newly revised Section IV is
clearly an attempt to prohibit sexual assault; it amazes us that anyone could read this piece of legislation and thereby
determine dent? It seems the honor council felt compelled to rehabilitate his sensitivity as well as his alcohol consumption. For
this reason alone, his case ought to be reconsidered. However, there is more at stake here than simply Atchison’s case.
Indeed, the very fiber of our school and our own Constitutional and civil liberties hang in the balance. The crux
of the argument rests on so-called “hate speech” and the admissibility of prohibiting any speech, in light of the first
amendment. Consider Brandenburg v. Ohio (1969). Columnist Nat Hentoff characterizes the case: “even incitement of violence is protected unless that
incitement is to ‘imminent lawless action’ (right then and there). And unless there are people listening who are able and
willing to commit that lawless action (right then and there).” Hen- agree) that “this test applies to that specific form
of imminently dangerous language, stimulates debate. The second is regrettable but irrelevant. As much as it may pain you to
admit it, Mr. Atchison is innocent in spite of himself, with the full force of the Bill of Rights to
protect him. Disgusting, ain’t it?

Taking our concerns in order, the difference between the messages left by Atchison and Lopez seems, by Lopez’s own account,
to be a negligible one. Both were aggressive: Atchison’s call was admittedly motivated by anger while Lopez’s call was a
“challenge.” Each individual felt provoked (perhaps in different ways), and each sought to provoke the other party with some form
of verbalization. The messages were delivered in anger and, we would venture to guess, if they could consider it in
hindsight, none of this would have happened. It is important therefore, to emphasize the ambiguity of this situation and place
some of the responsibility with Lopez, while in no way absolving Atchison. So, specifically, we must look at why Atchison
wasfound guilty of violating the Code of Responsibility. Apparently, the honor council decided, based on the current code, that Atchison’s
call constituted either a “harassing” or “obscene” action. Let’s consider that for a moment. The text of the call (specifically
the racial epithet) is clearly not obscene under current court definition (Miller v. California).

As long as we send a message like “This policy sucks,” the administration and trustees are going to ignore our
concerns. In fact, that kind of message isn’t a concern. The SGA encourages the student body not to underestimate the
power of a collective voice from the students. The faculty, administration, and trustees don’t know near as much as we
do about the problems that exist concerning alcohol at Davidson. Let’s get together on this.

Anthony Foxx and Alden Smith
SGA President and SGA Vice-President

That Philip Atchison’s stupid remarks were punishable ones. Finally, the code itself is inherently vague (what “harassment” or “obscenity” is
no one bothered to define; and why is harassment by mail or voice excluded?) and therefore moot. Indeed, the court
has not even attempted to define “harassment” or “intimidation” in specific terms essentially because such a definition cannot be made
without infringing on individual rights. These are not minor objections; if you accept our assertion that the code is incredibly
vague, and that what Atchison did wasn’t even covered under that code, then you must also accept our conclusion that
Philip Atchison is innocent. Why was he convicted? Surely not because he admitted it; if we admitted that we buy
Frank Zappa CDs, there’s not much the Tipper Gores on campus could do about it because it’s not illegal. What
we think the honor council probably convicted him under was something along the lines of “conduct unbecoming a Davidsonian.” But
that’s not in the code either. Ultimately, then, it stands to reason that Atchison was convicted of insensitivity in using
the corrosive word “nigger” to describe another human being. Is it conceivable that the honor council would require a student
to take a course on “Multi-culturalism” if that person had merely threatened another student?

Not to general verbal bigotry. And that test is neither overly broad nor vague (as the code of responsibility is
both). In the words of Justice Louis Brandeis, “The greatest danger to liberty lurks in the insidious encroachments by men
of zeal; well-meaning but without understanding.” Thus we see the honor council, in its misunderstanding, attempting to combat racism by
stifling speech. Granted, what Philip Atchison said barely even qualifies as speech, much less “debate;” yet the conclusion to narrowly
constrict someone’s right to speak in order to preserve someone else’s sensibilities is a false one. New York attorney Lisa
Fleishman suggests that “many whites—Irish, Jews, and Armenians, for example—have claims to historical subjugation. And a lot of racism doesn’t
involve whites at all, but exists between members of different minority groups. Do we have to choose which group has
been historically more subjugated in order to decide whose rights to enforce?” Obviously, this is absurd. You can also discern
how the rule applied to this very ambiguous case could be extended to include, say, one birk calling the other
a conservative ass over the precious Davidson College phone system or, ultimately, to your ability to speak your mind in
any venue. The objection that Davidson is fundamentally able to legislate its own value-system on campus is morally illegitimate. No
one would consider refusing to abide by the civil rights laws, or the state criminal (or alcohol) code. Yet, are
we then to exempt ourselves from the Constitution and the first ten amendments (which also protect our ability to tell
you these things)? The answer is clearly no. This college is very probably a state-actor in the constitutional sense. Or
at least, it soon will be, when the resolution authored by Rep. Henry Hyde (R-Ill) is passed. This resolution would
extend the right of free speech even to the college campus. Such ludicrous examples as Dartmouth’s prohibition against “vexatious oral
exchange” would be rendered invalid. Ultimately, the necessity of a congressional act to extend the protections of the Constitution to
Davidson College is ridiculous. President of Yale University, Benno Schmidt suggests that “universities cannot censor or suppress speech, no matter
how obnoxious in content, without violating their justification for existence... It is to elevate fear over the capacity for a
liberated and humane mind... [and will loose] an utterly open-ended engine of censorship.” We can only guess how many other
Davidsonians have been similarly disenfranchised by the honor council, since, with rare exception, that body operates in secret. Given only
the single case before us, we therefore suggest that the offensive and harassing code be removed, and Mr. Atchison be
exonerated. Barring a school-initiated review, we would therefore counsel Mr. Atchison to seek legal advice and formally refuse to accept
this penalty, which is itself unprecedented and completely without base in the code. How terrible a task to defend remarks
such as Atchison’s, but we believe it fundamental to our own freedom of expression. While we acknowledge the noble intentions
of the honor council, the effects of its ruling are insidious and corrosive. Only a short step remains to the
University of Connecticut’s empowering itself to censure “inappropriately directed laughter.” With Lisa Fleishman, we affirm that “Believing that the elimination
of racist speech is somehow the same as eliminating racism is plain romance... the concrete measures of equality and power
have to do with money, food, education, housing. Hopefully, all those young minds in all those fine universities [and colleges
(that’s you Davidson)] will turn their minds to the solution of real race problems for real victims, and leave hall
monitoring to the First Amendment romantics.”
