THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

DAVID THOMPSON - Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE - Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH - Managing Editor
CHRIS HASS - Assistant Editor
TOM KOONCE - News Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
SUSAN SHEFFIELD - Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL - Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY - Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON - Associate Photography Editor

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE - Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

Self-Scheduled Exams Are Becoming The Stuff of Legends

Admissions officers, brochure compilers, and tour guides have a penchant for touting Davidson’s practice of allowing students to schedule their own exams. Prospective students and their parents are wooed by the notion of khaki-clad and honor-bound young pupils keeping silent the contents of their finals until the end of the examination period. Unfortunately, self-scheduled exams are on their way out. By shortening the period during which students may take their exams, the college converts a once cherished asset into a burdensome liability.

Some professors argue that the temptation to talk about exams is greater if there is more time allotted for taking the tests. Such conjectural academic theorizing is insulting nonsense. The students of Davidson College can be trusted to keep their mouths shut for a few days. The urge to cheat will more likely fester in the high-pressure environment a shorter examination period produces.

Minus Grades Emphasize the Wrong Aspects of Academia

The Davidsonian has remained uncharacteristically silent regarding the underhandedly implemented minus grades system. We have reserved comment until now so that we might thoroughly appreciate the drastically horrific consequences of the system before commenting. The scheme is utterly harebrained. This attempt to allow more freedom for instructors to accurately rate their students’ performance is an egregious assault upon the all too fragile principles of the liberal arts education.

The college has hastily abandoned a perfectly operable system (so hastily, in fact, that our grade report forms still carry the explanation of the old system) so that a few pedantic professors might have a special new way to say “not quite.” Davidson College has forever considered itself an institution of the higher order. We strive to be a school which not only fills mental vessels with information but encourages the inherent worthiness of academic pursuits. By dismantling the old system, Davidson shifts its emphasis away from the noble promotion of study for its own sake and further inflates the superficial symbol that is one’s GPA. Rather than work with their students individually, the proponents of the minus grade system have established a means of neatly avaricing students into even more depersonalizing numeric categories. The editors urge the registrar, the faculty, and the Dean of Students to abandon this poorly chosen path.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the students of Davidson College.

To the Young, the Freshmen & Sophomores, To Make the Most of Time

I loved being a hall counselor. I’ve relished the experience of having a lot of younger friends. I’ve enjoyed—yes, I know it sounds corny—learning about myself through the experiences of others around me. In all reality, as much as I would love to see Kenya or Tibet, I stand by my decision to be a hall counselor. And, of course, I’m sure my friends who have been abroad would swear that they too would not trade their experiences for anything in the world.Friends and I went out to dinner together; three of us in the group are hall counselors this year, and the other two had just returned from a semester abroad. As the dinner progressed, we who had remained at Davidson became increasingly impressed with, and covetous of, the experiences of the other two. The one who went to India and Nepal had, among other things, ridden on the back of an elephant, watched a funeral pyre burn near the river Ganges, and learned seemingly as much as any professor here knows about the Chinese occupation of Tibet. The other, who had studied on a preserve in Kenya, had lived in an "Out of Africa" sort of environment, without electricity, without running water, without any of the accoutrements Davidson offers, such as Domino’s Pizza. As we finished our dinner, I reminded the hall counselors in the group that we had seen a lot too—crazy hall room floor.

It took me a while to quit feeling so envious of my “worldly” friends. But, later, one of the two reminded me that I had learned a lot as well. And he was right. I’ve been lucky in a decision I made over a year ago. In a perfect world, this would always happen, but in real life, such advice is a little like drawing rainbows in the clouds. To the young freshmen and sophomores, make good use of Davidson, and if necessary, don’t be afraid to make some changes in the life here.

Rude Notes & Random Scribblings: Thanks For the New Policies, You Worthless Pack of Thugs

We’re back. Davidson College has returned to its bastions of good food and strict counseling and returned to our freedom. We're at the stepping stone, which means nothing during these first few weeks of the semester. So let me remind you of something that will greatly bore us to the future, eventually.

First of all, it is very difficult to explain to your parents that a 1.7 GPA is a C-, not a D. Finally, there are undoubtedly three times as many freshmen who did not make grades this year than last year. Perhaps, they are simply a dumb lot, but I doubt it. Those whose GPAs were above 1.7 were most likely all screwed. (And if you weren’t, you'll look better.)

I want to harp on a subject for a second time: The new grade point system blows. Under the old system, my GPA would have improved by three-tenths of a point. I’m pissed. Second of all, you will probably make three of you throw down the paper in a spontaneous act of rage followed by a general binge involving frivolous pleasure that leads to the demise of your GPA. Still, they are threatening. Their threat has been intensified. You will eventually be allowed only five days to take your “Self-Scheduled” exams. Why? I haven’t the slightest. The only obvious result of this new development is the elimination of the benefits our exam system creates. Essentially, you no longer can take two days for each of your four exams, and, God forbid, if you happen to be taking five classes you have to take a final every day. Please, CHANGE THIS BACK. A new system involving pre-scheduled exams would certainly help us because there is no way the administration could figure out a schedule that worked without at least providing two weeks' time for exams. Why even bother having “Self-Scheduled” exams if it only hurts us?

Speaking of hurting us, I will probably make three times as many freshmen who did not make grades this year than last year. Perhaps, they are simply a dumb lot, but I doubt it. Those whose GPAs were above 1.7 were most likely all screwed. (And if you weren’t, you'll look better.)