The Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992 NUMBER 11

Photo by Casey Rogers

'Cats Win 6-5 On Penalty Kicks

Rob Ukrop draws a crowd of defenders in Sunday's win over Coastal. The team now advances to a Final Eight matchup with N.C. State Sunday.

By Leigh Rawdon

Unlike last spring, unusual current events have not drawn attention to the life of African American students at Davidson. However, this lack of visible tension does not necessarily indicate that the quality of life for minority students has improved.

Students continue to express serious concerns about the experience minorities and especially African Americans have at Davidson. These issues are repeatedly addressed at all levels in the college in an attempt to understand what might improve the situation.

Identifying the Problem

Only 85% of the black students who entered their freshmen year with the class of 1992 graduated from Davidson; 67% of those who began with the class of 1991 graduated. Why is it that African American students are generally not satisfied with Davidson and often decide to leave before graduation?

The high attrition rate has been a problem at Davidson since the first black students enrolled in the 1960s. In the past ten years, the college has analyzed the situation and identified possibilities for improving the environment for the entire campus.

In 1984, college president John Kuykendall established a task force on racial and ethnic concerns in his first year as president of the college. This report identified nine major concerns, the backgrounds of each concern, and recommendations for possible solutions. The task force named social stress as one of the major factors for dissatisfaction. According to the report, the social stress results from the small number of black students, the demographic makeup, attitudes of black and white students, and the nature of the town of Davidson.

After nearly four years at Davidson, senior Anthony Foxx continues to battle the dissatisfaction felt among black students. He attributes the slow change in the environment on campus to the compartmentalization of the problem by the administration. Foxx listed several areas which have separated the concerns of the African American students from those of the students at large. These include the curriculum, the Deans’ Offices, the speakers, and especially the social life.

The insufficient social life is a direct result of the small population of black students on campus, according to Travis Hinson, President of the Black Student Coalition. With only 59 African American students on campus, it is difficult to find a niche of people with not only the same cultural background, but also similar interests. Hinson tells prospective students truthfully about other difficulties as well, including interaction with professors and white students who continually ask him to speak as a resource representing African-American students.

See "Students" on page 4

Unbelievable! Penalty Kicks Again as 'Cats Top Coastal

By Bruce Balestier

Sometime around 5 p.m. Sunday afternoon, with darkness approaching, Davidson goalie Alex Deegan finally earned a rest after three and a half hours of goalkeeping when he saved Coastal Carolina’s Billy Johnstone’s penalty kick. The save gave the #19 Wildcats, now 18-4-3, a 6-5 win in a shootout, and earned them a spot in the NCAA Tournament’s Final Eight against #3 N.C. State next weekend.

On the final save, Deegan poked the ball up in the air and, in his words, “just watched it float over” the crossbar. He then was mobbed in the corner of the field by teammates and fans who had stormed the field. Unbelievably, it was Deegan’s fifth save in the set of ten penalty kicks, and not even his most dramatic. Three times in the shootout Deegan saved shots that would have won the game for Coastal. The Chanticleers took a 3-2 lead after the fourth set of kicks, and needed only to hit their next kick or stop the fifth Davidson shot to win. But John Sampers, the hero in last week’s victory over UNCC, scored to the bottom left corner andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Deegan stopped Rob Williams at the left post to knot the affair. With the conclusion of the set of five kicks, the match moved to sudden death. When Coastal keeper Bryan Hickey saved Cliff Castelloe’s shot on the seventh set of kicks, the Chants stood to win on the next kick. But Deegan saved Shane Gilstrap’s shot to the right post. In the same situation on the ninth set of kicks, Deegan saved a shot by Coastal’s Damon Richvalski. Freshman Ryan Northington scored with a left-footed shot to the left corner before Deegan stopped Johnstone’s shot. The shootout followed 150 minutes of scoreless soccer (90 minutes of regulation time, two 15-minute overtimes, and two 15-minute sudden death overtimes) marked mainly by the clutch play of both teams' defenses and goal-

See "Deegan" on page 16

Davidson Considers Plans for New Student Union

Johnston Gym Seen as “Ideal Location”

By Rachel Dunifon

Rumors about the possibility of a new college union, after having been circulated for years, may soon be put to rest. According to William Brown, Director of the Union, plans for a new union “have been under active consideration since spring of ’85,” although it is unclear when they will be implemented. Brown says that the key to having a successful union is that it be located in the center of community life. “Going to the Union should be something done without even thinking,” Brown said. The present Union location is not conducive to this kind of traffic. “When the infirmary was in its old location, at least we had some sick people dropping by,” said Brown. Now the Union is out-of-the-way from almost everywhere on campus. Brown, a ’70 graduate of Davidson, says that the Union was previously located where the library now is. Then, in 1975, a planning committee decided that spot would be the ideal location for a new library, and the Union was torn down. The director of the Union at that time said that the only way that the Union could remain viable if moved to its current location would be if a student Post Office was placed there to generate traffic. Because of community opposition to that idea, however, the Union now “is located on the edge of campus with no major traffic provider.” No moves were made to change the location of the Union until 1985, when it became clear that Johnston Gym would be vacated due to the construction of Baker Sports Complex. Brown

See "Union" on page 3

Journalist Burnham Examines Media's Affect on U.S. Electorate

By Christopher S. Edwards

On Wednesday, November 18, about 20 people gathered in the 900 room at 7:30 p.m. to hear David Burnham, a former investigative reporter for the New York Times, speak about the media’s role in the U.S. and how it affects the American electorate. Burnham was invited to come to Davidson by his friend Elizabeth Benedict, a visiting professor of writing who grew up in New York City reading Burnham’s stories in the Times. Burnham was a New York Times reporter for fifteen years. He aggressively covered such issues as police corruption in the city and federal regulations of such industries as nuclear power. He has also worked for CBS and United Press International. Having written “The Rise of the Computer State” in 1983 and “A Law Unto Itself” (dealing with the I.R.S.) in 1990, he is currently authoring a book about the Justice Department. Burnham believes that reporters are often “seduced” by newsworthy or otherwise important figures who may influence how stories are written and may even cut stories from publication. The media thus doesn’t provide the American people with a full, clear view of what is going on in the U.S. While there is no comprehensive

See "Burnham" on page 3

INSIDE

NEWS: Davidson to Get New Grocery. See page 2.

OPINIONS: See page 6.

Rafael and Travis. See page 12.

An Thanksgiving Hunting Trip.

ARTS: Bumstead's Achy Breaky Heart. See page 13.

SPORTS: Basketball Preview. See pages 7-10.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036