THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CHRIS HOOD - Assistant Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

Thank You Athletes!

This past weekend was highlighted by tremendous successes by Davidson’s athletic teams. For the soccer and field hockey teams, the
weekend brought hard-fought and richly deserved conference championships. The football team won a tough game against Centre College to record
its third victory in four weeks. The volleyball team has had a rebuilding year, but has shown improvement as the
Southern Conference tournament approaches. Our cross-country teams have been solid contenders in the conference this year and look forward to
the NCAA Region II championships next week. The women’s soccer program, in just its third year at the varsity level,
posted a 10-8-1 record. And speaking of young programs, Davidson swimmers and divers have worked hard this year to successfully
resurrect the sport on campus.

As members of the Davidson community, we owe a special thanks to all of these athletes and their coaches. Through
their success this Fall, our teams have defined the true meaning of college athletics. At Davidson, our athletes aren’t one-dimensional
jocks concerned only with their athletic performance. They compete on the field, and also in the classroom. No athlete escapes
the rigors of Davidson academic life. In addition, Davidson athletes are an important part of the community. Although academics and
athletics are enough to keep students more than busy, most also find the time to make positive contributions to the
community in other ways. Coach Slayle’s soccer t-shirts sum up the special ingredients of athletics here: “Davidson Soccer: A Unique
Blend of Athletics, Academics, and Campus Life.” Because our athletes are involved members of our community and are treated equally
in academic life, we are able to take special pride in their success.

Although none of our soccer players receive athletic scholarships, they have been able to compete favorably with the nation’s best.
Just ask UCLA. Although the field hockey team has yet to receive the national attention of the soccer team, their
16-2-1 record speaks for itself. Like the soccer team, field hockey has been able to gain victories over larger schools
with more scholarships such as Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond University, and James Madison University.

One final point: with the possible exception of Rob Ukrop, few Davidson athletes have little hope of continuing their athletic
careers in the professional ranks. In other words, our athletes play for the love of sport. Although they could have
their afternoons off and have their weekends free, they have chosen to commit themselves to representing their school. Their dedication
and the positive attention they have brought to Davidson is much appreciated. And to the soccer team, we'd love to
see one more home game.

A Letter from Mom

My dearest Davidson Student,

As Thanksgiving break approaches, I know you have papers due, exams are near, the weather is getting colder and the
days are getting shorter. I wanted to take a minute and encourage you to relax, exercise as regularly as possible,
and eat right. I know that this is the “crunch time” for most students as work is done until all
hours of the morning. It is important, however, to get enough sleep and not to overwork yourself. Don’t test how
much your body can take for “just one more week.” When you come home for Thanksgiving I don’t want you
to be so worn out that you’ll get sick once you get here. Then you won’t be able to enjoy
your turkey or your time off! Use your time efficiently and keep your spirits as high as possible - it
makes the hard times go by faster and easier. Good luck with your work and always remember, I am very
proud of you!

Love always,
Mom

Politically Correct

Letters

Gupta Reacts to Grubb's Letter

To the Editor,

In the November 2 edition of The Davidsonian, a letter appeared expressing concern about the need for a more “Christian
Campaign.” In it, the author insinuated that non-Christians are irrevocably immoral and that Christians, with their moral superiority, are the
only group on whomthe nation can rely on for moral integrity. As a member of a non-Western, non-Christian, non-Protestant religion,
I take serious personal offense to Mr. Grubb’s wholly unjust and close-minded generalization. I find his assertion that “there is
nothing we can do to stop non-Christians from supporting such moral abominations...” expressive of a much deeper and disturbing attitude
of intolerance and ignorance of other religious ideals. Indeed, I can find little else that is LESS Christian than such
an assertion. Non-Christian religions, Mr. Grubb, do not advocate immorality. In fact, they — like Christianity — support lifestyles that
exemplify moral conduct with actions — not just words. In his attempt to divide the country into Christian and non-Christian
factions, Mr. Grubb commits the most debilitating and divisive of acts; America’s moral deterioration stems not from the presence or
absence of “Christian” communities, but rather from the intolerance and judgmental attitudes of individuals. It is this mentality that I
find “truly a disgrace” and that I would hope we can overcome in a community of different individuals who strive
to understand one another. Perhaps Matthew 7:1-3 expresses the sentiment better than I can: “Do not judge, so that you
may not be judged. For with the judgment you make you will be judged, and the measure you give will
be the measure you get.”

Sincerely,
Suneya Gupta ’94

Lazenby Analyzes Election in Verse

Editor's Note: The following was mailed to The Davidsonian and is therefore reprinted.

America the beautiful, America the great,
Is this the man in which we entrust our fate?
I’m scared—my mouth is dry, my flesh grows pale.
Of desperation this decision reeks—I dare not inhale.
You’ve got to know how to sail before you can command the ship.
But when his turn came ‘round Bill decided to skip.
Granted, the most worthy captain George was not.
But Slick Willy can’t even tie a sailor’s knot.
Okay, enough solace, I’ll get to the gist.
When the stars and stripes needed defenders Bill was missed.
If there’s one we can count on to lay down his life,
When our America faces terrible war and strife,
It should be the leading man in our White House.
But given the chance Bill proved less a man and more a mouse.
Yet we elected this joker, Arkansas governor Clinton,
He and his cohort are anxious to get their stint in.
There is one good thing about this new chief of our powers.
No matter how busy, he’ll always take time to smell the flowers.

George William Lazenby

Alum Calls for End of Honor Code

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor,

A Davidson student must not lie, cheat, or steal or tolerate those who do was once the Honor Code at
Davidson. Now it is amended so that false IDs may be used off campus. In the late 1960s while in
the Honor Court, we convened for a trial of a Davidson student who stole money while visiting at a nearby
university. The trial was held at the nearby university. The student was found guilty and expelled from the college. I
give this remembrance for the purpose of contrast as to a change in the understanding of “Honor”. The Idol of
Honor is a sacred cow at Davidson. Because of this, Honor would best be served if the Honor System were
discarded as opposed to the concept that Honor is limited by time and space. Honor permeates the whole person, one’s
life, one’s relationships with the opposite sex, one’s speech and one’s thoughts. Should cheating on campus be an Honor violation?
Yes, of course. Should cheating off campus be an Honor violation? Yes, of course. Should lying on and off campus
be an honor violation? Yes, of course. Should use of a false ID on and off campus be an Honor
violation? Yes, of course. Honor is not a relative

See "Honor" on page 9
