6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

America's Place In The New International Order
A Conference on the Post-Cold War World

Former Soviet Ambassador Opens Dean Rusk Conference
By Meg Davis

Jack F. Matlock, former Ambassador to the Soviet Union, gave the opening address at the conference sponsored by the Dean
Rusk Program and NationsBank, entitled, “America’s Place In The New International Order: A Conference on the Post-Cold War World.” Matlock,
in accordance with Walter LaFeber, said he “is not sure [the new international order] has taken a form,” yet he
expressed the need for a “system designed to head off conflicts before they occur.”

Jack Matlock received his A.B. from Duke University and his M.A. from Columbia University. He taught at Dartmouth before entering
the foreign service. Director of the Dean Rusk Program Jack Perry described him as a “remarkable linguist.” Matlock served as
Ambassador to Czechoslovakia as well as being Ambassador to the Soviet Union from 1987-1991. He is currently a Senior Research
Fellow at the Harriman Institute at Columbia University. Matlock was the last single ambassador to serve the Soviet Union; today
there are fifteen ambassadors to their fifteen republics.

Matlock discussed the problems currently emerging in foreign policies resulting from the end of the Cold War. The policies of
security, the world economic system, and nationalisms are going to have to be re-thought since these problems need to be
confronted in a different manner since a Soviet superpower is no longer a threat. In terms of security, Matlock said,
NATO was designed to prevent a Soviet invasion of Western Europe. He said that the Soviet threat to Western Europe
no longer exists, and the world needs to devise a policy to prevent internal conflicts within the Russian Federation where
communism was an international ideology which failed to take into account cultural and ethnic identities. Also, the world economic system
achieved relative prosperity during the Cold War, but it is “inadequate” to help former communist economies move into the present
economic system, said Matlock.

Matlock believes that the most serious problem facing the United States and the Russian Federation is the plight of the
Russian republic. He believes the future of the Russian republic will directly affect the fourteen other republics. Matlock said that
if Russia can make a successful transition to democracy and capitalism then the other republics will follow. Matlock believes there
is a choice for Russia’s future between a democratic state with a healthy economy and a totalitarian state, should the
economy collapse. Matlock hopes for the democratic option because he believes a strong alliance between Russia and the United States
would emerge since we do not have any territorial disputes, the two countries have never been to war with each
other, and we do not have any colliding national interests.

Matlock feels it is imperative “to start paying attention to what governments do at home” and to impose sanctions on
countries who do not recognize human rights or who have policies of “ethnic cleansing.” Matlock believes that the U.S. should
implement policies that deny authoritarian regimes the right to purchase arms. Basically, Matlock said the new world order needs to
be based upon the principle of democracy, using more viable criteria than have been used in the past and denying
those who do not follow these criteria access and participation in the world system.

Panel Discussions Held on Future U.S. Foreign Policy
By Tom Price

Last week two panel presentations of top university professors were held in Chambers Gallery. The presentations were part of the
Dean Rusk Program’s conference on the post-cold war world. The first session, entitled “The United States and the Emerging World
Economy,” featured Dr. Anne Krueger, Professor of Economics at Duke University and the former Vice President for Economics and Research
at the World Bank; Leon Bendesky, Executive Director of the Center for Economic Studies at the Universidad de las Americas
in Mexico City; and Mr. Mark Sandy, a 1987 Davidson graduate and a Luce scholar who studied U.S.-Japanese trade conflicts
and plans for a Multilateral Trade Organization while in Tokyo last year.

Krueger said the United States is suffering from “diminished giant syndrome,” in which the power of the U.S. dollar has
declined. Countries receiving U.S. aid only forty years ago are now our greatest economic competitors. She outlined the problems the
United States has encountered since its emergence after World War II as the only country with a truly open economy.
She believes that Congress has largely forgotten about our multilateral trade system and decides for itself which forms of trade
are fair and equitable. This system, Krueger insists, creates barriers to trade which are at least equal to those imposed
by Japan. Krueger also believes it is in the best interest of the U.S. to pursue regional trade because the
United States cannot afford to ignore its neighbors. She also believes this regional trade needs to be multilateral.

Dr. Bendesky said there are no justifiable reasons for establishing new and stable trade agreements. In fact, he argued that
there are not even conditions present for creating a stable economy. Globalism in a world economy, he said, means that
nations have less control over creating a stable international economy. He traced the instability of the world economic scene to
the end of economic growth in the late 1970s.

Mark Sandy outlined the economic problems of the United States inTerms of the challenges facing President-elect Bill Clinton. Among these,
he said, are increasing the importance of economic issues, dealing with the greater reluctance of the country to sacrifice economic
concerns for political objectives, and the growing emphasis on international competitiveness. Sandy also described Clinton’s trade policy as being supportive
of free trade in the context of a national economic strategy. Clinton’s goal is a high wage, high growth U.S.
economy featuring government intervention. Sandy said Clinton also seeks reciprocity in trade laws and hopes that this strategy will open
up markets. Finally, Clinton will attempt to emphasize the side effects of trade, such as the environment and worker safety.

The second panel discussion was entitled “The United States and the Emerging World Politics.” The panel included Dr. Ole Holsti,
Professor of Political Science at Duke University; Dr. Jereal Rosati, Professor of Government and International Affairs at the University of
South Carolina; and Dr. Loch Johnson, Professor of Political Science at the University of Georgia. Dr. Holsti shared with the
audience segments of his current research. He surveyed over 4,000 “leaders” from around the country and used their answers to
track his views of the United States’ role in the post-Cold War era. The term “new world order” was coined
by President Bush in 1991 and has been used to describe the current state of the world after forty years
of the Cold War.

Spratt, who graduated from Davidson in 1964, is a three-term Democratic Congressman from South Carolina and a member of the
House Armed Services Committee and the Budget Committee. Formerly a Phi Beta Kappa and student body president at Davidson, Spratt
received his M.A. from Oxford and a law degree from Yale. After reminiscing briefly about his four years at Davidson,
Spratt began his speech by asking the question, “What are America’s prospects in the New World Order?” He praised the
way George Bush handled the Gulf War, mentioning that the plan of economic sanctions followed by military action and the
cooperation of the UN Security Council signaled the dawn of a new world order. “The Gulf War would not have
happened during the Cold War,” Spratt asserted. “If Brezhnev had been in power, Saddam Hussein would not have dared to
invade Kuwait and we would have been far more cautious.” With the threat of nuclear war, the UN Security Council
would have been impotent. He added that the end of the Cold War presented the possibility of many more regional
wars, and more regional “bullies” who might possess nuclear weapons. The Gulf War also caused the United States to acknowledge
that there were limits to its power.

The Cold War has consumed American attention for the last few decades. Spratt mentioned that the Cuban Missile Crisis, which
occurred while he was at Davidson, at the time subordinated the country’s other interests. During the Cold War, survival and
world position were the most important objectives of the United States. Now that the Cold War has ended, Spratt said,
the U.S. can begin to focus on economic issues. Spratt feels that George Bush was unable to “bask” in the
success of the Gulf War and the end of the Cold War because of the recession. Throughout the 1980s, the
government was both building up the budget deficit and cutting taxes, but that will have to change now that the
Cold War is over. The government will have to cut the defense budget even more.

Additionally, the standards of living fell drastically during the 1980s. After the Industrial Revolution, living standards doubled every 21 years,
and the idea of each generation living better than the one before was a reality. But during the 1980s, Spratt
said, the rate of increase in living standards dropped to every 48 years. According to Spratt, 755 billion dollars must
be taken out of the budget in order to balance the budget by 1998. In the next few years, the
United States will see a decrease in military strength, with only one million people remaining on active duty; the smallest
number since 1950. Despite the defense cuts, Spratt still believes America will continue to be a superpower because other countries
will be cutting their defense budgets as well.

Spratt admitted that defense cuts aren’t the entire answer to the budget deficit, but they must be part of the
solution. He feels that Bush has failed to realize that America can’t afford to be the kind of military superpower
it has been for the past forty years. But Spratt also acknowledged that it is still very important for America
to be strong, although it must learn to “do more with less.” He quoted Colin Powell as saying that America
must “only apply troops where we have a mission, can apply strength, effect an outcome in a hurry and withdraw.”
As Bill Clinton said, it is not America’s responsibility to be the “cop on the beat.” Spratt asserted that unless
we allow the Europeans to police themselves and solve their own problems, they won’t deal with them. He suggested the
possibility of integrating American and European forces, or bringing European troops to the United States.

Spratt also said that it is important to maintain our ties to NATO because the United States provides a nuclear
umbrella to other countries without nuclear weapons so that those countries won’t feel the need to develop their own.
