NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

WIRE!

Barry Kicks Off Campaign In Iowa

IOWA CITY, Iowa (CPS) - Greeted at the airport by a man holding a sign - “Dave Barry: He won’t
vomit at state dinners.” - Dave Barry kicked off his presidential campaign February 6 at the University of Iowa. The
Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for the Miami Herald arrived two-and-a-half hours late after missing his plane, but still managed to squeeze
in a press conference, a debate, and a State of the Union address.

During his press conference, Barry said that he would appoint University of Iowa president Hunter Rawlings as secretary of state.
“If he misses three Cabinet meetings, he’s out. That’s the rule. I’m going to be that kind of law-and-order president,”
Barry said.

Barry’s campaign manager, Ted Habte-Gabr, an Ethiopian exchange student, greeted the candidate with the Barry-mobile, a rusted Honda Accord with
“Barry 92” license plates. Later, several Iowa students dressed in trench coats, shiny black shoes, and dark glasses whisked their
presidential choice into a black limo and off to an Iowa pig farm.

Head Was A Hunk...Of Roast Beef

CHICAGO (CPS) - University of Illinois at Chicago police say they’ve solved the mystery of an art exhibit that students
say was the head of a human cadaver wrapped in plastic. Otomo said that most couldn’t positively say that it
was a human head. The other reason police gave for believing Vargas’ roast beef explanation is that the medical school
did not report any missing cadaver heads.

Contributed by the Chicago Flame

‘Meatout’ Scheduled March 20

(CPS) - A number of celebrities, including cartoonist Berke Breathed, actor River Phoenix, and singer Chrissie Hynde, have urged people
to kick the meat habit - at least for a day - on March 20. The seventh Great American Meatout
is sponsored by the Farm Animal Reform Movement. According to FARM, the purpose of the event is to alert people
to factory farming practices and to encourage “a less violent, more wholesome diet.”

Palestine Solidarity Committee Chair Speaks On the Middle East

By Will Boye

Last Wednesday, the Dean Rusk program played host to speaker Jeanne Butterfield, National Chairperson for the Palestine Solidarity Committee. Butterfield’s
speech, given in Eu Hall, focused upon Israel’s continuing occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and the indirect
endorsement of these policies made by the U.S. government through foreign aid. Butterfield spoke out against the $10 billion request
for housing loans made by the Israeli government by questioning further support of “a nation that repeatedly violates human rights
in the Middle East.”

Butterfield began her speech by contrasting the recent intervention of the U.S. in Kuwait with the long-standing apathy that has
been displayed by the U.S. towards the occupation of the Palestinian territories. Butterfield defined this sort of foreign policy as
a “double standard”; one which would forbid the U.S. from abiding the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait for a matter of
months, but one which tolerates, and even encourages financially, a hostile occupation by Israel for a period of twenty-five years.
Failing even to utilize sanctions as a means of persuasion, the U.S. supports “the continuing denial of human and national
rights” in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Butterfield said.

She went on to describe the military occupation of the Palestinian territories, which maintains a direct control over sixty percent
of the West Bank and an estimated fifty percent of the Gaza Strip. Since 1967, Butterfield said, 1300 military orders
have been enacted which blatantly intrude upon every aspect of the lives of the Palestinian occupants of these territories. Ranging
from extraordinarily restrictive boundary lines in the region to arbitrary arrests and interrogations of “security suspects,” these military orders have
been designed to cripple the fragile Palestinian economy from the outset, and with the inception of the Gulf War, Butterfield
noted, conditions only worsened. “We have a responsibility to respond,” she said. “It’s our tax dollars which pay for this
occupation.” Israel, she explained, is the single largest recipient of U.S. aid in the world today, receiving $3.1 billion each
year before any additional requests.

See "Palestine" on page 6

Davidson Professor Authors Anthology

By Will Boye

Dr. Rosemarie Tong, a Davidson College philosophy professor and Thatcher professor of Medical Humanities, is the author of a new
book that aims to shed some light on the multidimensional subject of feminism. An anthology of feminist readings, Feminist Philosophies:
Problems, Theories and Applications, is a collaborative effort shared by Professors Janet A. Kournay and James P. Sterba, a husband
and wife team from the University of Notre Dame.

The book is divided into two distinct parts, one containing readings about contemporary problems which women face today and the
other dealing with feminist theories. According to Tong, this partition allows for an understanding of the relevance which many of
these theories have in our culture. After readers have gone over such issues as sexuality, reproduction, and the domestic scene,
they can then peruse the various theories and determine for themselves which has the most appeal.

Sterba, a philosophy professor who has done extensive work on the subject of justice, was the actual originator of the
idea for the book. Sterba had known very little about feminist philosophy and proposed the collaboration as a means of
education, both for himself andreaders. A principal aim was not only to explain the theories, but to demonstrate their application
within the book. Another objective of the book is to challenge the stereotype of feminists as “strident, unattractive women angrily
demanding the abandonment of the family, the desertion of husbands, the killing of fetuses, or perhaps just the burning of
bras.” According to Tong, a great goal of feminism, as well as the book, is to illuminate the diversity that
exists among women and to celebrate it; without, however, becoming so diverse that a forfeiture of a political or social
platform is necessary. Tong is currently director of Davidson’s concentration in medical humanities and also teaches a class in “Feminist
Thought.” In 1986 she was named U.S. professor of the year by the Council for the Advancement and Support of
Education, an honor recognizing superior undergraduate teaching. Tong has authored four books on feminism and ethics and is under contract
to write others in the future on feminist ethics and medical morality.

Former NATO Special Advisor Speaks On the Status of the Middle East
By Chris Wells

Last Wednesday, as part of “Middle East Week,” the Dean Rusk Program sponsored a discussion where Jean-Claude Renaud, former Special
Advisor to the Secretary General of NATO for Economic Policy Affairs, gave a European’s perspective on the current status of
the Middle East. Renaud explained how the European view of the Middle East differs from the United States view. He
said that the European nations have closer ties with the Middle East than the United States. For example, he said,
“in my country alone, there are two to three million citizens with Arabic roots.” Consequently, Renaud said he believes that
European nations must act with more caution and must be more sensitive to action in the Middle East.

Renaud also noted the similarities in the views held by the European nations and the US. Like the United States,
he said, European nations have established close relations with several countries in the Middle East. For example, he compared the
close US relationship with Israel to the close French relationship with Lebanon. In addition, he noted that the US, like
Europe, depends heavily on the Middle East as a source for oil. But Renaud feels that both the US and
Europe will change their policy concerning oil in the future because, he said, “we should never depend on one supplier.”
One student asked if Europe and the US might turn to Russia as a supplier for oil. Renaud stated that
several years ago, the European community made a treaty with the former Soviet Union which was designed to maximize their
oil resources. As a result, Renaud believes that Russia will become a major influence in the world’s oil market, thus
reducing the power of countries in the Middle East.

Renaud also said that the recent Gulf War was not as significant in Europe as in the US. Although several
European countries sent troops to the Middle East, Renaud said that the United States dominated the war to “the point
of the ridiculous.” Renaud also said that although he felt every country was fighting to secure the oil market, “Saddam
Hussein gave us a golden opportunity to be a moralist.” In summarizing, Renaud said that any differences between the US
and European view of the Middle East arise from “...a difference of approach...a difference of the way we perceive the
situation in the Middle East.”

Davidson Graduates Speak On the Myths of the Middle East
By Christopher Edwards

Last Sunday, Davidson graduates Sayres Rudy and Bilal El Amine, Middle Eastern specialists, spoke about “Orientalism, Islamism and Liberalism in
the Middle East,” in a forum organized by Wendy Dunn, Rami El Amine and the Dean Rusk Program. Both Rudy
and El Amine emphasized the necessity of destroying commonly held Euro-American myths about Arabs and the Middle East. Rudy, ’86,
stressed eliminating the stereotypes associated with Orientalism, Islamism, and liberalism. Orientalism is the fallacious belief that Middle Eastern trends and
problems are caused by Islam; according to Rudy, blaming terrorism and wars in the region solely on Islam is as
illogical as associating problems in Europe and America solely with Christianity. He said that Islamism is “a modern (seventy-year-old) twentieth-century
revolutionary phenomenon” arising from local conditions in the Middle East, and that it is neither medieval nor fundamentalist nor homogenous;
conservative movements differ greatly throughout the Arab world.

Liberalism is another idea that many people in Europe and America can understand in relation to the Middle East because,
he said, Middle Eastern countries have made significant progress in the development of their political and social institutions in the
thirty or so years of their independence, comparable to the progress that England made in the eight hundred years from
1200 to the present. El Amine, '87, spoke out against more misconceptions about the Middle East and suggested ways of
changing them. He displayed two images of Arabs: one showing a bearded and turbaned man and the other portraying an
Arab with skeletons as eyeballs. According to El Amine, if images portraying other minority groups in such a negative light
were displayed, there would be a public uproar. He emphasized that Europeans and Americans need to become more sensitive to
Arabs. For example, he suggested that people should stop seeing the Arab world only in its conflict with Israel while
ignoring its more important problems. He also said that people should realize that conflicts among Arabs do not stem just
from Islam but rather from all sorts of causes. Halting the characterizations of the Middle East as a region that
has, unlike Eastern Europe, survived the winds of change and modernity, would also be profitable because, he said, the Middle
East is actually a modern region.

Recycle this Davidsonian
