THE DAVIDPHONIAN
FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1992

Davidson

"Arts Residew to Embark on World Tour: Keyboardist Quits, No One Notices"

By Freelove Upthumpa

Minus one, Residew—Davidson’s own world-famous classic rock band—announced plans on Wednesday to tour the globe. The gathering was held at the Back Street Cafe, where the Dew recently played a benefit concert to raise money for treatment of Paula Abdul fans. Drummer Joe Binns said, “like David St. Hubbins once remarked, we’re touring the world and elsewhere.”

The band plans to open the tour in London on May 17 and will wrap up the venture in late August, 1993. Guitarist Julian Cochran said, “I think we’ll be a big hit in France. Our distinct mixture of Allman Brothers with, well, Allman Brothers, is sure to get us in with the espresso set.” Asked if he was excited about the trip, bassist Chip Petree removed a pair of headphones and exclaimed, “man! Ya’ll gotta hear this Phish!” Petree plans to pick up some extra cash during the band’s stay in Japan. “I’m gonna pose for the dude who does all those little statues of the Buddha,” he noted.

Brad Reddick, guitarist, invited the press corps to come on tour with the band. “You know, it’s been such a long time since we’ve done anything together, and, you know, I mean, work, and the band, and, well, you know. Have you guys got any cigarettes?” he said.

Several minutes into the conference, someone in the back of the room asked, “Hey, where’s that other guy?” in reference to keyboardist Will Percy. The members of the band looked to their right, at each other, the crowd, and then just shrugged. Binns was overheard saying to Reddick, “I don’t know. I thought you were supposed to watch him.”

After an intense investigation, the Davidphonian has learned that Percy was holding his own press conference at Giorgio’s in Cornelius. Apparently, he told the waitress, “I’m leaving Residew for good. This band just isn’t what it was four years ago. These guys actually give a damn about what they’re doing. I can’t, and won’t tolerate it anymore. Back in the old days we meant something: we were a couple of guys who couldn’t really play, but did, and we caught a sweet buzz. It’s just not the same anymore.” He announced plans for a solo album which he has tentatively titled “Percy Speaks.” Percy has invited former Davidson students William Bray, Chris Hargrove, and Curtis Ravenel to work with him on the project. The album should be completed, in Percy’s words, “whenever we get around to it.”

John Howell parties down with his new friend Cher at the Residew's press conference. Of the relationship, Howell said, "I think she's very special, and quite a dresser, too." Cher only said that she really missed Sonny.

(Matt Bumrush: Screamin’ Metal)

For this week’s installment, I have chosen to single out and salute a very different and much better form of music. For the past year, I have constantly bombarded you with my relentless bantering about the so-called joy and rapture of country music. Finally, I had a profound revelation: I’ve wasted a hell of a lot of my time and used up a lot of valuable ad-space in the Davidsonian. I realized that after putting hand to...typewriter for the past year that I have accomplished essentially nothing. The only weekly comment I have gotten about my article is from my parents, with their restrained compliments of “that’s nice dear, we understand that country music is your only real friend.” I mean, after listening and rambling about the supposed heaven that awaits all in that hell-pit Nashville, I finally came to the conclusion that there is another life besides country music and Hee Haw. So, today I write to you about the joy of metal.

The heavy metal scene can be described as an open free-sex incestuous family where there are tears, cries of pain, and terror. It's damn competitive; the best bands get the best and cheapest women. But the rewarding elements of such a society are incalculable; the fans are always included, be it in the bed of the artists or by their spending money on metal biker jackets and patches. The notion that metal music offers only three general themes—sex, drugs, and cheap women—may be true, but how many of you would disagree that these are vital elements of life?

The names of Slaughter, Metallica, Queensryche, Tora Tora, Def Leppard, Iron Maiden, Skid Row, and Judas Priest ring through my little Tennessee head almost every day out of my Polk Audios. But my total enthrallment and rapture come from just plopping in either Use Your Illusion I or II from Guns N’ Roses, sitting back, and Bangin’ Heads With My Pals in the Biz in-your-face, genuine Pantera. I with my electric guitar and just trying to follow the Gunners through a few tunes. I can’t explain the enthusiasm I felt when I flipped through the latest issue of Hit Parader this month and saw an interview with my pal Duff McKagan (bassist for Gn’R for those of you who have had your eyes glued to TNN, and who is a friend so I’ll just call him Duffy from here on out).

Duffy and I go way back; he and his family are from Miami (my former hometown before I was transplanted to the armpit of the Southeast) and we used to ride bikes up and down the beach picking up babes, turning over trashcans, and killing kittens. Boy, those were the days, feelings that I hope to convey to my readers.

Well, let’s look at some aspects of the metal scene. First, let’s just remember the great Motley Crue. Sure, the group will still be together but they just won’t be the same without Vince (Vince Neil that is, but I just call him Vince because he is a friend). I mean, I believe the Crue will continue to put out quality music but it just will lack that Vince touch.

I’ve already spoken of the women of metal, so I’ll move on to a review of Pantera’s latest release: A Vulgar Display of Power. There are some killer cuts on this disc such as “Live in a Hole” which is just heavy, raw. I once asked guitarist Diamond Darrell (who is a friend, so I could ask him) if stardom had turned out as he expected. He responded, “Yeah, now I have sex at least twice a night with different women instead of just the same one over and over like it was back in Miami.” Oh, to be a famous metal...

See "Thrash God," next issue.