THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992

Residence Life Office Maintains Busy Schedule in Spring

By Curt Bickers

Richard Terry combats the constant threat of students vandalizing dorm property and other students’ property. At the same time, he deals with students who feel they need to be the exception to every rule. “Some students are simply inconsiderate of others,” Terry said.

Several common issues discussed that face the Residence Life Office yearly were the lottery, the Resident Advisor applications, Senior Apartments, and other dorm renovations and security. Lottery brochures are to be sent out the first week in March. While the system is essentially the same, one major element will be updated. The old way of students coming by the RLO and drawing a lottery number needlessly immobilizes the RLO for three days. Under the revised system, a computer will generate a randomly assigned number to each student.

One thing students need to be aware of is what their class standing will be for the following year. If a student needs one more credit, which the student will take over the summer in order for that student to move from sophomore to junior standing, then the student needs to alert the Registrar. Otherwise, the automated lottery system will simply assign numbers according to Registrar records.

The only housing problem foreseeable will be the number of students allowed off campus. Yearly, due to finances, the RLO must maintain an average of 90-95 percent of the total student body on campus. Of course, 100-125 students must live off campus because the college cannot meet 100 percent of the student body in occupancy. March 2 marks the date on which students may begin to submit off-campus housing applications. As a rule, rising Sophomores may not submit applications until after the lottery.

Another factor of the lottery concerns the Senior Apartments. The way Residence Life used to handle Senior Apartments was to assign, based on class ratio, a certain number of apartments for males and for females. Last year, however, the number of rising senior males who sought apartments was far less than the number of female seniors wishing to acquire apartments. Therefore, the system now uses an engendered, by-number-only issuance of Senior Apartments. There are approximately 248 beds available in Martin Court. No mixed groups (those with a junior) are given better lottery numbers than complete senior groups seeking apartments.

Students need to be aware that bills for room deposits will be issued to parents on March 1. The deadline for RLO to receive the deposits is March 23. A student may not go through the lottery without Davidson College having received that student’s deposit.

Building improvements the RLO projects for summer, 1992, will not be as extensive as those of last summer. Residence Life is planning on closing Richardson, Watts, and Little for renovation. Improvements will include repainting, fixing the ceilings, renovating the heating and air-conditioning systems, and redecorating the lounges. In addition, it has been proposed to expand the electronic key-entry system in dormitories. Either all of the up-the-hill dorms will receive the new locks, or all of the down-the-hill dorms will be re-done with this system.

In addition to the electronic key-entry system, added security measures are being taken in the dorms. Students may have noticed window stops on some windows in their dorm. These are to keep people from entering dorms who should otherwise not be in the dorms. Also, dead-bolting Senior Apartments are not feasible because the locks would require keys. This would increase the opportunity for theft of keys and then the unauthorized entry into apartments by individuals who should not be there. The dead-bolts are also very expensive. Any further suggestions about security are welcome by the RLO if students have them.

Recently, the RLO made Senior Apartment inspections which raised many harsh feelings. Some students felt they were being patronized in regards to their treatment of the apartments. If care, however, is not maintained by students, money which could be used for financing greater security measures will be used to help maintain the buildings. Resident Life’s chief goal is to ensure that students live in the utmost comfort while attending Davidson College.

The men selected are Peter Amidon, Will Canu, Tim Carrigan, John Dalton, Ward Davis, Greg Fisher, Al Gaines, Ryan Harper, David Haslam, Brad Johnson,Patrick Jopling, Matt Laughon, Nicholas Manuel, Jason Morris, Richard Rivera, Chris Shields, Alden Smith, Tim Sobon, Devane Tidwell, and David White. Alternates are Jeff Crain and Rick Thurmond. The women selected are Aylett Colston, Allison Cotton, Rachel Dunifon, Suneya Gupta, Meredith Hammons, Suzanne Hardesty, Beth Ann Jayne, Caroline Lemley, Laura McCarthy, Karen Marshall, Tene Moore, Ashley Payne, Julie Petty, Keri Slater, Alice Spivey, and Sally Stone. The alternates are Sally Gantt and Molly Johnson. Congratulations to all of these successful applicants.

Palestine Continued from page 1
tional supplements or grants. If this foreign aid were even conditioned, she emphasized, the maintenance of this sort of occupation would be impossible. Similarly, to loan Israel an additional $10 billion for the settlement of Soviet Jewish immigrants would not only be risking a default on the loan, according to Butterfield, but would simply contribute directly to the expansion of settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, where Israel plans to relocate another half a million of these settlers in the next year. “The entire occupation is contrary to international law,” Butterfield stated in mid-conclusion. By continuing to ladle out billions to support Israel, she reiterated, not only does the U.S. oppose any advancements of peace and human rights in the Middle East, but it neglects the three million homeless and the domestic dilemma our own country faces. “Certainly,” Butterfield concluded, “a reworking of priorities is called for.”

Fraternities Continued from page 5
since they did not have to undertake the huge expenses of constructing their own houses. Today, that area is known as Jackson Court. So the social system continued to grow. On the eve of World War II, the fraternities seemed to be at their height, with almost every single group thriving and more being added. Phi Delta Theta chartered in 1928, and Sigma Phi Epsilon came in 1930, each merging with a local group. The social scene, certainly bolstered by the automobile, became fantastic as the houses held dances and banquets frequently, decorated for Homecoming, and kept a healthy rivalry for the scholarship cups and athletic titles. With a friendly and supportive administration, a great social life, and the reputation of “the campus of gentlemen,” nothing could go astray. Only the most perceptive and wisest would have seen the changes in values and ideas that would pervade the 30 years after the war and change, forever, the face of fraternities at Davidson and across the nation. Information for this article taken from Mary Beaty’s A History of Davidson College, Ramsey and Winn’s Milestones Backward Run, Cornelia Shaw’s Davidson College, the Davidson College Archives, and most of all, College Archivist and loyal Beta Theta Pi, Dr. C. G. Davidson, ’28.

Congratulations to the 1992-93 Hall Counselors

MOVIES at THE
$3.75
Bugsy starts Friday
Radio Flyer starts Friday
Stop or My Mom Will Shoot starts Friday
Medicine Man (PG13) 3:10, 5:20, 7:30, 9:10
Prince of Tides (R) 3:30, 7:00, 9:30
Great Mouse Detective (G) 1:00, 2:35, 4:05, 5:30, 7:10
The Hand That Rocks the Cradle 3:15, 5:25, 7:35, 9:45
Fried Green Tomatoes (PG13) 3:30, 7:00, 9:30
Final Analysis (R) 3:30, 7:20, 9:45

Own a Camera? Want to meet a cute guy? Like photos? Call Casey Rogers and take pictures for The Davidsonian (-6124)

This is Richard
HAS MODERN LIVING GOT YOU DOWN? Try announcing it! Resident Advisor applications for the 1992-93 school year are now available. Read on your resume a little lacking? Do you want to buy a pet but don’t know the lyrics to “Click” by Elizabeth? “I’m coming to your side” like a love bug for love and you’re my windshield. Now, Napier, you must be a resident but they might open it. We want you! Make every wave bit easier. If you’re a senior, apply. Deadline: Feb. 5.