4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

From the Archives

Alcohol and Davidson: A History Since 1838

By Towner Blackstock

(Author's note: this article originally was to follow up last week's history of fraternities at Davidson, 1858-1938. The conclusion will be printed later, but for now here is a more timely, albeit related, topic.)

On a dry day, you can stand on the front steps of Chambers and see the discolored patches of grass where Old Chambers used to stand. This phenomenon, commonly called the “ghost of Old Chambers,” once had an entirely different meaning than it does now. According to College Archivist Dr. C.G. Davidson, Maxwell Chambers, who willed in 1855 the funds used to build Chambers building, was “not exactly a teetotaler.” Many people interpreted the pale imprint in the grass as Maxwell’s ghost arisen in anger over the banning of alcohol at Davidson.

Many students would have a hard time imagining a dry Davidson. Yet in the 1838 charter of the College, the Trustees made it illegal within a two-mile radius from campus “to retail spirituous liquors, or otherwise to sell, give, or convey to the students of said College any intoxicating liquors.” Pool tables, gambling, theater or horse shows, “rope or wire dancing” and just about everything else were banned in the same section. Although the Presbyterian founders meant to preserve the moral salvation of the student body, things were awfully boring, and students were kept under a short leash.

The zeal against alcohol so evident in the Trustees and faculty did manifest itself in the student body. The Sons of Temperance had an organization on campus in the 1850s, members of which pledged to put an end to the use and sale of alcohol. Of course, fraternities secretly appeared in ’58, and they were certainly not sons of temperance. In 1854 the Trustees spread the alcohol ban to a three-mile radius around the college, perhaps due to an enterprising vendor sitting right on the two-mile marker. One must keep in mind that a student had to ask a faculty member for permission to leave the college grounds in these years, although surely they could find a fitting reason to take an extended stroll or two.

The rebuilding of the railroad in 1871 made travel outside that radius of abstinence possible, and more than one student was found “in his spirits more than naturally” at the rail station, according to one woman. For such behavior one could be expelled, or at least suspended. One student was suspended for drunkenness and fighting, and he later came at one of the professors with a gun. Needless to say, he was subsequently expelled.

Dancing proved to be a problem of this era too, and became quite inseparable from alcohol. Students petitioned in 1871 and 1879 for Commencement dances, but the Trustees and faculty would hear nothing of such “evils.” Even in 1918 the Trustees still disapproved of dancing, the College still being a very Presbyterian school, and dancing having been declared by the Church as “not a wholesome form of pleasure for Christian people to engage in.” A statement like that makes you wonder what they would have said about “hooking.” Even better, the Concord Presbytery stated in 1919 the “condemnation of the dances of today as a moral and spiritual evil.... We deem ‘lascivious’ and indirect violation of the Seventh Commandment all dances wherein there is great physical intimacy and in particular where the arms of the dancers partly or wholly encircle persons of the opposite sex.” Well, if they could only see Patterson Court now!

There was one problem to these statements; students could not be restrained from attending dances in Charlotte, especially with the increased availability of the automobile. Neither could the College try to stop drinking at these dances unless it wished to punish students for dancing, too. The Dean of Students tried, though, during the '30s but to no avail. By the late thirties, even the president of the school wanted to see dancing on campus, if only to bring the greater sin of drinking under control. World War II brought dances to campus for good in 1943 as a morale builder for the cadets stationed in Davidson.

Alcohol during the fifties and sixties existed, but was not allowed anywhere on campus. Up to 1954, a student could be dismissed for drinking or for possession even off campus, and then the rule changed to include on campus only. The students obviously thought this rule to be ridiculous, going so far as to argue in 1965 that the trunk of a student’s car was technically “off-campus.” Pictures of fraternity men with beer frequentlyappeared in the Quips and Cranks of the Sixties, so it was unquestionably a part of student life. In 1966, the Trustees deleted the 1838 charter’s section banning pool tables, theater, and the sale of liquor inside a three-mile radius of campus. The biggest step came in 1968 with the establishment of the Code of Responsibility. The code allowed the individual freedom to make personal choices, especially about alcohol. Drinking now was allowed in the fraternity houses, in homes, and even in the residence halls. The stringent controls of Davidson, including mandatory ROTC and chapel, were abolished, and in 1970, self-scheduled exams began. Women were admitted soon thereafter, and the self-selection system started. With the sudden lack of authority and guidance, and with the coming of the Love Generation to campus, alcohol and drugs became commonplace. According to Bill Giduz ’74, you could walk through the dorms and smell the marijuana smoke coming through the open doors. Today, of course, Davidson has become a bit more discreet, and student regulations of alcohol have restricted its use. In the last one hundred years, authority and the control of alcohol have transferred from the faculty and trustees to the students and the individual, giving unparalleled room for personal choice and responsibility, or, as the case may be, irresponsibility. With the trustees putting control of the new alcohol policy in the hands of the Dean of Students, there is a minute shift towards the old ways. Regardless of that or nearly anything that may come, the freedoms of today are a long cry from the, as contemporaries admitted, boring world of nineteenth-century Davidson College. As always, information used in this article comes from Mary Beaty’s A History of Davidson College and the College Archives. Many thanks to Archivist Dr. C.G. Davidson and his assistant Frances Redmond.

Greene Continued from page 1

to an example of a baby that was born horribly malformed and was abandoned by its parents. The baby had almost no hope of a normal life, but the doctor performed the necessary operation and preserved the baby’s life. For the doctor, he said, there was no question as to what to do. Then, he said, there was an intern who injected a lethal amount of morphine into the bloodstream of a young lady who was in extreme pain while dying of ovarian cancer. The intern was acquitted of murder. Greene said that although this intern performed the exact same service as some civilians do when they use a gun or a pillow on a dying friend or family member, the civilians are usually tried for murder because they killed in ways that doctors would never use. He realized that there is, “nothing more difficult in life than pain,” physical and psychological. “The desire to prolong life does so at the cost of prolonging suffering,” he asserted. Greene also suggested that a patient may reach a point where neither beneficial treatment nor euthanasia are wise, and that, at this point, a doctor is obliged to stand back and discontinue his functions as a doctor. Greene said that only a court of law may decide to end a person’s life, not a doctor. He asked two questions: “Do you have to be a doctor to be merciful enough to kill?” and “Can a doctor charge for an assisted death?” The second question Greene answered with, “Of course not. Therefore, it’s not the doctor’s job. A doctor is a doctor when he is doing a doctorish thing.” In response to a question, he addressed abortion, which is a type of euthanasia in his opinion. He stated that he supports abortion only when the mother’s well-being is threatened; otherwise, it is murder. He concluded by admitting that he does not know what his position on the subject would be if he himself were suffering near to death, and he had to decide whether or not he wanted to submit to euthanasia.

Write For News
Contact News Editor Kevin Miller at -6372

Recycle this Davidsonian

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6 PM

MOVIES AT THE LAKE
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS
892-3841

Medicine — 3:10-5:20
Great Mouse Detective (G) — 7:30-9:40
Bugsy (R) — 3:30-5:30-7:10-9:00 (Only)
The Prince of Tides (R) — 3:30-7:00-9:30
Fried Green Tomatoes — 3:30-7:00-9:30
Nominated for 7 Academy Awards
Nominated for 2 Academy Awards

SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY!

Final Analysis (R) — 3:20-5:20-7:20-9:20
The Hand That Rocks the Cradle (R) — 3:10-5:10-7:10-9:10
WAYNE'S WORLD — 3:15-5:25-7:35-9:45

patagonia
"Come Check Out The New Spring Merchandise"
OUTDOORS
10% off with Davidson ID through Feb. 29
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.