2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

WIRE!

Two students - Bradley Selvig, 20, and George Yarbrough, 26 - were arrested and charged with unlawful assembly to disturb
the peace.

Snowball Fight turns Aggressive

MOSCOW, Idaho (CPS) - Two University of Idaho students were arrested after a five-hour free-for-all degenerated into “the worst snowball
fight in several years,” police said. University Police officers were called in to break up the melee, which included attacks
on two school officials - James Bauer, director of housing, and Bruce Pitman, dean of Student Advisory Services - who
were bombarded with snowballs and thrown to the ground when they tried to intervene.

“After the fight, we found snowballs with batteries and rocks inside of them, and there was a lot of serious
aggression,” Moscow Police Chief Dave Cameron said.

The school newspaper, The Argonaut, reported that the snow began flying about 9 p.m. January 22 on Greek Row, when
a few fraternities apparently began pelting other houses with snowballs and rallying more people to join. Within an hour, scores
of people were involved. Then the mob made its way to the university dormitories and confronted resident hall advisers and
the two school officials, police said.

“There were a few moments early on when the attitudes of the participants were very mean-spirited,” Cameron said.

Rejects Condom Machines

MURFREESBORO, Tenn. (CPS) - Middle Tennessee State University administrators have rejected a student government resolution to install condom machines in
every campus residence hall. Dr. Robert C. LaLance, vice president for Student Affairs, decided to nix the resolution approved by
the Student Government Association in October 1991.

“This has nothing to do with being prudish or backward,” LaLance told the student newspaper, The Sidelines. “It was not
a disagreement in subject, but in method to serve the students on health-related issues with health services,” he said. “There
is an appropriate place providing for this need.”

The resolution stated that condom machines would provide protection from unwanted pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases.

“We’re going to try to put it through again,” said Toby Gilley, speaker of the SGA Senate. “With AIDS and
other sexually transmitted diseases, I don’t see how any measure could be enough.”

FLAG

Continued from page 1

Davidson, and that when he was at Davidson he received no support from the general population. He said that when
he spent time down on Patterson Court he felt very uncomfortable, and that he always heard passing critical remarks, although
not directed at him, that ridiculed gays and lesbians.

He did say, however, that he never was the victim of any violence or harassment during his stay at Davidson,
and that if he had the choice to make all over again, he would have enrolled in Davidson again.

Willard then listed FLAG’s accomplishments since its formation for the audience. Besides the Forum itself, FLAG has displayed many AIDS
prevention posters in bathrooms all over campus, it has the library subscribing to The Advocate, a gay and lesbian magazine,
it sponsored the movie Long Time Companion during Solidarity Week, and it will send members to a state-wide FLAG meeting
in April. Along with promoting tolerance, Willard said that FLAG will push for policy changes regarding college material on discrimination
of certain groups.

Professor Scott Denham offered his experience with college policy by saying that when he went through his application process, his
acceptance and his orientation, the question of homosexuality was “conspicuously absent” from everything.

Hasty added that FLAG is a very positive necessity for the college because he believes the administration will eventually acknowledge
the gay community. He also said that the group is important because support is needed for young isolated gays and
lesbians, citing that four out of seven suicides by young adults are related to homosexuality.

Thompson closed his statements with the insistence that students and people obliterate the three major myths that encompass homosexuality. The
myths are, he said, that gays are out to make everyone gay, that gays are out to hit on everyone,
and that gays can’t be teachers because of the vulnerability of children to their influence.

Foxx closed the forum by asking students, in light of this issue and other issues of intolerance raised in the
past few weeks, to focus on improvement in their own individual actions and attitudes.

Colleges Celebrate Black History

(CPS) - Universities throughout the United States celebrated Black History Month by sponsoring speakers, plays, poetry readings, dances and concerts
to recognize the achievements and contributions of black Americans.

“We need African-American History Month because African-Americans have been omitted from the written record,” said Melvin Wade, director of the
Afro-American Cultural Center at Yale University. Activities at Yale included presentations of speech, dance, drama and film. Ivan Van Sertima,
associate professor of African studies atRutgers University lectured on “Reinterpreting the Legacy of Columbus: Africans in Pre-Columbian America.” “Black History
Month is a time which gives all Americans an opportunity to gain better understanding of the past heritage and culture
of black people,” Harriet Taylor, an adviser at Butler County Community College in Kansas, said in a letter to the
editor of The Lantern. The celebration, which began in 1926, “is aimed at furthering racial understanding, awareness, and appreciation, which
hopefully will bring about harmony for all,” Taylor concluded. Events included visits by jazz greats Branford Marsalis at the University
of Connecticut and Roscoe Mitchell at the University of Chicago, and rap singer Ice Cube at the University of New
Mexico, where educator Marva Collins also spoke. Duquesne University in Pittsburgh sponsored an evening of celebration that included poetry by
Langston Hughes and Afro-Caribbean dances. Harvard educator Alvin Poussaint, author, psychiatrist, and social critic, was invited to speak at the
University of Connecticut on “The Black Family.” Meanwhile, students at Miami University of Ohio launched a campaign to publicize the
story of Bessie Coleman, the first black to become a licensed pilot in the U.S. They are trying to get
a postage stamp issued in her honor. Coleman, who earned her flying license in 1921, was the 12th of 13
children. She attended flight training in France and returned to the United States to open a flying school to teach
other blacks to fly. A mechanical failure on her plane caused her death during a test flight in 1926. She
was 33.

Proposed Sexual Orientation Clause Causes Stir
By Angie Craig
The Daily Helmsman

MEMPHIS, Tenn. (CPS) - For the second time in four months, the Memphis State University student senate defeated a resolution
that called for the inclusion of the words “sexual orientation” in a university non-discrimination statement. The resolution was defeated by
one vote in November and by a 16-10 margin earlier this month. The senate, which has no actual institutional power
to make policy changes, helped bring attention to the issue, said Kevin Lee, treasurer of the Gay and Lesbian Awareness
organization. GALA, a group of about sixty students, called for the change in university policy in November. Since then, the
issue has ignited campus and community debate over homosexuality and discrimination. Proponents of the resolution argue that the words “sexual
orientation” include heterosexual, homosexual, and bisexual relationships. Opponents contend, however, that neither the state of Tennessee nor Memphis State, sitting
in the heart of the Bible Belt, is ready to grant homosexuals a discrimination clause of any kind. Furthermore, they
argue that the legality of homosexuality and the broad definition of sexual orientation would prevent such a policy addition. A
person could currently serve up to 11 months and 29 days in jail for committing a homosexual act in Tennessee.
“When you talk sexual orientation, what are you talking about? Pedophilia? Necrophilia? Bestiality? You're also including a lot of other
sexual preferences with such broad and inclusive terms,” said Mitchell Wrenn, a senator from the College of Arts and Sciences.
Michael LaBonte, president of GALA and author of the resolution, said the group is awaiting reaction from the university administration.
“What is being proposed here is simply protection for students and faculty against potential discrimination,” LaBonte said. “This does not
endorse a lifestyle; it is about protecting people’s rights and dignity.” Dr. Lane Rawlins, president of Memphis State, said the
administration is researching the proposal and has not taken a stand on the resolution. Meanwhile, as the two sides debate
whether the resolution is dead at MSU, the campus community is taking sides in a battle not likely to be
resolved soon. In a Helmsman poll taken this month, MSU said they favored prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation by a 65-27 percent margin.

NEW LITE
Featuring the highest quality lean meats, closely trimmed of fat. Low in both calories and cholesterol & highly nutritious; Lite
cheeses, ADK lite mayo, low-fat breads & salads.

$1.00 OFF ANY LITE MENU ITEM
With Coupon
Not Good With Any Other Offers. Expires 3/31/92

$9.00 OFF PARTY TRAYS
Large assortment includes Honey Cured Ham, Smoked Turkey, Roast Beef, Salads, Relish, Bread & Desserts. FULL SERVICE CATERING, Delivery available.
Call for Special Prices. Expires 3/31/92

Charlotte-Lake Norman
1-77 at Highway 73 (Exit 28)
Southlake Shopping Center (near Harris Teeter & Rose's)
Open Mon-Sat, Sun 11-4
892-9592
