12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING — MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

Williamson Continued from page 13

foreign policy. On the social scene, dances, cocktail receptions, and banquets allowed us to mix and mingle with the other participants. Besides debating foreign policy intensely, we also gained a unique perspective on the lives of cadets. For three days we lived in the barracks and adhered to the 5:30 a.m. wake-ups, 11:30 p.m. lights out, and other rules of the Corps. Although I am used to awakening early, there is nothing comparable to a man yelling at 6:15 a.m. about the uniform for the day! Their rigorous schedules and dull yet handsome gray uniforms made me thankful for the freedom and cheerfulness of Davidson!

Participating in a conference of this caliber was an exciting and stimulating experience. Not only did I meet many outstanding students from all over the globe, I learned an incredible amount about U.S. foreign policy, Eastern Europe, and the military.

DAVIDSON OUTDOORS

Spring Semester 1992

January 25 - Alpine Skiing
Join Davidson Outdoors for a night of skiing at Sugar Mountain, Banner Elk, NC. Exciting skiing, scenic trails, and a casual flavor add up to a ski mountain that puts the emphasis on fun and hospitality at affordable prices. There are 13 spaces available for this trip. We will depart Davidson at 2:00 pm and should return by midnight. Trip fee includes lift ticket, ski rental, and transportation. $18.00

February 2 - Midwinters Alpine Ski Trip
Davidson Outdoors will be returning to Sugar Mountain for a Sunday night of skiing thrills and spills. There are 13 spaces available for this trip. We will depart Davidson at 2:00 pm and should return by midnight. Trip fee includes lift ticket, ski rental, and transportation so plan to join us and wrap up your Midwinters Weekend in grand style! $18.00

February 8 - Robert's Cave Exploration
Learn the art of "spelunking" on this trip designed for novice cavers. We will learn about cave systems and the correct way to explore caves. This trip will focus on the basics of caving: choosing the right equipment, route finding, and trip planning. Transportation, equipment, and lunch are included in the cost of this trip. $15.00

February 15 - Valentine's Day Weekend Ski Trip
Looking for something to do with that "special person", want to impress a potential date, or are you just tired of hanging around campus? Join Davidson Outdoors for a night of great skiing at Sugar Mountain. There are 13 spaces available for this trip. We will depart Davidson at 2:00 pm and should return by midnight. Trip fee includes lift ticket, ski rental, and transportation. $18.00

March 7-15 - Spring Break Everglades Canoe Expedition
The tradition of this great trip continues! Join Davidson Outdoors for a week of wilderness canoeing in the Ten Thousand Islands of the Gulf of Mexico. This maze of mangrove jungle has tropical vegetation and an abundance of flora and fauna. The cost of this trip includes transportation, food, and equipment. $180.00

March 28-29 - Mt. Rogers Backpack
Mount Rogers, located in the Jefferson National Forest of Virginia, is known for its mountain meadows, which are the highest in the east. These meadows are also home to wild ponies and peregrine falcons. The cost of this trip includes transportation, equipment, and trip meals. $15.00

April 5 - Nolichucky Gorge Whitewater Rafting
Join Davidson Outdoors for a day of whitewater thrills and spills! Under the expert guidance of Nantahala Outdoor Center, our group will ride the thundering rapids of the Nolichucky River Gorge. The Nolichucky Gorge is an 11-mile stretch of Class III, IV, and V whitewater that is sure to thrill even the most experienced paddler. The cost of this trip includes transportation and lunch. $28.00

April 11 - Crowder's Mountain Rock Climbing
Learn the art of top-rope climbing. This trip is designed for the beginner whowants to give rock climbing a try. After a short ground school covering safety procedures, knots, and belaying, we will spend the rest of the day "on the rocks." The cost of this trip includes transportation, equipment, and lunch. $10.00

April 12 - Nantahala Whitewater Rafting
Join Davidson Outdoors for a fun-filled day of whitewater rafting on the "River of the Noonday Sun." The Nantahala, a popular river near Great Smokey Mountains National Park, offers a delightful whitewater experience for beginners as well as people with whitewater experience. The cost of this trip includes transportation, lunch, and equipment. $15.00

May 11-14 - Outer Banks Hangliding
Join Davidson Outdoors and Kitty Hawk Kites for a thrill-filled after-school adventure hangliding on the Outer Banks of North Carolina. We will learn to fly at the world's largest USHGA certified Hangliding Flight School. Our beginning lessons will include classroom time on the basics of flight and at least five flights at Jockey's Ridge State Park. The cost of this trip includes transportation, meals, and all flight costs. $150.00

For students, faculty, and staff
Register at the Union Information Desk
For more information, call Greg Sheppard at x2625
Liz Davidson & Dair Brown

Eat & Drink Healthily During the Super Bowl
First of all, the best thing for keeping your patellas in place is to root for the Redskins. That’s not a direct threat, but we’re getting into strong suggestion territory. Okay, so since we understand each other on that point, let’s move on to the second health point for this week. We assume that being Red-Blooded-By-God-Americans, you will be participating in the full Super Bowl Ritual. Here’s some information that should come in handy while selecting the preferred festive foods:

* Beer has absolutely no fat and a light beer has fewer calories than a Pepsi. Miller Light has 96, Coors Light 105, Bud Light 108. Pepsi and Coke tally up at around 160.
* Pretzels are your best bet for snack food. All of the brands we looked at had only 8-17% fat and around 110 calories per serving size. (Remember you're shooting for no more than 30% fat in the foods you eat.) Nacho chips come in second with around 39% fat; however, the dips are from hell. Most of them have 65-85% fat content and you’re going to be adding about 20 calories per chip. Potato chips are almost as bad. Lance Chips, for example, have 71% fat. Peanuts are the worst you can do, though. Planter’s Dry Roasted Lite Peanuts have 77% fat. If they have the Redskin variety, add 2% fat to that.
* Believe it or not, pizza is not so bad, fat-wise. Here’s something to consider besides your coupons when ordering:

Dominos:
Cheese 24% fat 188 cal/slice
Deluxe 36% 250
Double Cheese w/ Pep 41% 273
Ham 24% 210
Pepperoni 35% 230
Sausage w/ Mushroom 33% 215
Veggie 34% 250

Pizza Hut:
Hand Tossed
Cheese 35% 260
Pepperoni 41% 250
Supreme 43% 270
Super Supreme 40% 280

Pan Pizza
Cheese 33% 246
Pepperoni 37% 270
Supreme 46% 295
Super Supreme 42% 280

Thin 'n Crispy
Cheese 38% 200
Pepperoni 44% 207
Supreme 43% 230
Super Supreme 41% 230

* One last point. For those of you who don’t understand the game, remember this one simple rule: When the guys in the red jerseys go across the goal line, it’s good.

India Continued from page 13
smells had become commonplace. Sure, we still experienced many frustrations, but by this time we had accepted them as part of life in India. Now that I’m home, I actually miss the country - the excitement, the travel, the people - and hope someday to return. Although it was good to be back in the States, the car ride back to my Pennsylvania home in early December seemed as strange to me as that first van ride in India. Culture shock works both ways.