10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

Hockey

Continued from page 12
end to get used to the field and the Mid-American Conference style of play. I was very pleased with our performance against Central Michigan. I believe it shows what good condition we are in to play three tough opponents in three days. This is by far the toughest road trip we have ever played.”

Senior Simone Plaisance scored her first goal of the season with an excellent reverse shot while she was fading away from the cage. She collected the ball after the goalie cleared it to her and was able to take advantage of the goalie’s miscue. Her goal gave the Wildcats a 1-0 edge at halftime. Freshman Holly Kledis followed up Plaisance’s goal with one of her own with twenty minutes to go in the second half. Kledis scored by beating her defender to the ball and deflecting it past the diving Chippewa goalie. Freshman Nicole Ficeto scored her first goal of the season with a strong shot within the circle to make the score 3-0. A few minutes later, senior Jenny Plowright closed the scoring with a flick from ten yards out.

Saturday afternoon, the Wildcats won perhaps their biggest match ever by defeating 17th-ranked Richmond 1-0.

Women's Soccer

Continued from page 12
minutes later, when she received the ball with her back to the net, faked, turned toward the goal and ripped a shot past the keeper. She got her second goal of the day six minutes later. Browett scored on a long ball in the sixtieth minute.

Launa Hankins, the leading scorer on the team, broke Davidson’s record for goals in a season with her 12th of the year. Hankins ranks in the top 10 in the nation in scoring. Her four goals against Erskine the week before was also a Davidson record. Hoffheimer finished the scoring with her second goal of the game.

The victory balanced a frustrating 3-1 loss to Radford earlier in the week. The Wildcats were up 1-0 at halftime after Hankins scored off a pass from Butcher. In the second half, Radford tied the game with a lofted shot that dropped just under the crossbar, and went ahead 2-1 on a controversial play. The referee called a questionable goal in the box, and Radford converted the penalty kick into a goal. The Highlanders managed a third goal to seal the victory.

Despite the loss, Hundley was pleased with his team’s week of play. “We were competitive for a good portion of the [Radford] game,” he said. “It was unfortunate the winning goal came from a questionable penalty kick, but we bounced back well today [against High Point] and played the way we should have.”

Home Athletic Events: October 5-12

Wednesday, October 7: Women’s Soccer v. Coker, 4:00 p.m.
Field Hockey v. Pfeiffer, 4:30 p.m.
Friday, October 9: Volleyball: Davidson Tournament
Women’s Soccer v. UNC-Greensboro, 4:00 p.m.
Men’s Soccer v. College of Charleston, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, October 10: Swimming: Alumni Meet, 10:00 a.m.
Volleyball: Davidson Tournament
Football v. Washington and Lee, 1:30 p.m.

October 11th

Saturday, October 17th to Tuesday, October 20th

October 24th - 25th

October 31st - November 1st

November 7th - 8th

November 14th - 15th

November 21st or 22nd

Bumper Sticker of the Week:

"My gun has killed less than Ted Kennedy's car”

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT

Serving the best in traditional Southern Foods
Tues.-Fri. Lunch: 11-2; Dinner: 5-9
Saturday Dinner: 5-9
Wednesday-College Night
Special on Selected Appetizers (1/2-Price)
Discount on Beer

Occasional ENTERTAINMENT

Weekend Specials include grilled swordfish and broiled salmon

Entrees include fresh vegetables
To Go Orders — Daily Lunch Specials
761 N. Main St. Mooresville, NC
704/663-7322

DAVIDSON OUTDOORS

HAGER - WRIGHT CLIMBING WALL

TRIP SCHEDULE FALL 1992

Mountain Biking in Western North Carolina.
10 spaces available. $10 per person.

Fall Break Trips

Beginning Kayak Course at the Nantahala Outdoor Center. 8 spaces available. $160 per person.

Whitewater Rafting on the New and Gauley Rivers. 12 spaces available. $160 per person.

Hang Gliding Instruction with Kitty Hawk Kites. 12 spaces available. $160 per person.

Fly Fishing for Beginners. 6 spaces available. Cost TBA.

Nantahala Rafting, NOC Fall Festival and Used Equipment Sale. 26 spaces available. $25 per person.

Rock Climbing Overnight. Destination TBA. 10 spaces available. $25 per person.

Backpacking at Mt. Rogers.

1992 Fall Semester Hours
Monday 7 pm to 10 pm
Tuesday 7 pm to 10 pm
Wednesday 7 pm to 10 pm
Thursday 7 pm to 10 pm
Friday Closed
Saturday Closed
Sunday 2 pm to 5 pm

Wall Orientation and Belay Testing sessions are run every Wednesday night between 7 and 8 pm. For more information or to arrange an orientation session for your organization please contact Marlys or Ed Daugherty in the Davidson Outdoors office in Johnston Gym at 2623.

LEARN TO ROLL A KAYAK

Have you ever wanted to learn how to kayak? Learning to roll is an important first step, and we'll make it easy for you. Davidson Outdoors is running free kayak rolling sessions in the pool at Baker every Thursday night from 7 to 8:30 pm. You can join us at any time during the session; we will provide a few boats. Veterans are welcome too! If you bring your own boat please clean it thoroughly beforehand.

CHRISTMAS BREAK TRIPS COMING SOON!

13 spaces available. $18 per person.

Rock Climbing for Beginners at Crowder's Min. 10 spaces available. $12 per person.

FALL BREAK PRICE BREAK

Cut out and present this coupon with your deposit when you register for any Fall Break trip, and get $20 off the price!

**You can register for any scheduled trip at the Union Information Desk. A deposit is required upon registration to hold your space.**