10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson Arts

Artist Ce Scott Exhibit Visually Challenges Viewers

By Sara Carlson
“Art needs to stimulate me in some way,” Ce Scott believes. “The stimulation does not necessarily have to be pleasant for me to respect the art.”

Scott’s three-dimensional pieces now on display in the Chambers Gallery challenge the viewer to interact with and digest the work. She forces the viewer to pause, lift a curtain, bend down, read, and look twice and a third time. It is impossible simply to stroll through this show; it demands full attention.

Scott will perform in tandem with her work in the Gallery on Wednesday, at 8 o’clock in the evening. She plans to speak informally about aspects of her art following the performance.

“She’s dealing with women’s issues that haven’t been dealt with before,” local artist Laura Grosch said. “She’s one of the most brilliant artists I know.” This mixed media collection addresses issues of racism, sexism, reproductive rights, and beauty misconceptions. Her last show, at the Christa Faut Gallery in Davidson, primarily confronted religious issues. Scott believes these difficult issues are better addressed in three-dimensions.

Each piece is complex, utilizing Scott’s experience in diverse media. Many of the assemblages include dolls, mirrors, fabrics, nails, and texts, accentuating her background in painting, drawing, jewelry making, print-making, and fabrics. “People leave this show affected. It seems as if the work makes them think; it stuns them,” gallery guard Carey Morton said.

While the nature of her upcoming performance is under wraps, it promises to be just as challenging and rewarding as the exhibit.

Concert Review: Lollapalooza vs. Hippiepalooza

By Chip Petree

Well, one could say that I’ve spent the last two weeks recovering, rather than writing about it, from the barrage of music that I lived through during the month of August.

Two festival tours recently passed through the Southeast that sent my brain spinning in a loop. The H.O.R.D.E. Tour (Horizons Of Rock Descending Eastward), or Hippiepalooza as deemed by Davidson alumnus Fudd McKinney, stormed through the Southeast in early August with dates in Atlanta on the 7th and Charlotte on the 8th. In addition to the H.O.R.D.E., the Lollapalooza festival, created by former Jane’s Addiction frontman Perry Farrell last summer, made its second annual swing through North Carolina with stops in Raleigh on August 18th and Charlotte on the 25th. I was extremely psyched to see both shows because of the vastly different scenes at each.

The H.O.R.D.E. Tour was the choice of the two for me, simply because of the acts involved. The tour brought together the likes of Blues Traveler, Spin Doctors, Bela Fleck and the Flecktones, Col. Bruce Hampton and the Aquarium Rescue Unit, Widespread Panic, and Phish. Unfortunately, Phish played only in the Northeast portion of the tour, but they were replaced in the Southeast by Bela Fleck.

The show in Charlotte opened with the Col. and the ARU. Their segment of the show featured the customary amazing musicianship of Jimmy Herring, Jeff Sipe, Oteil Burbridge, and Matt Mundy, but the impression laid out by the band was unfortunately lost in the poor sound quality. Apparently, I later discovered, the ARU was being used as the soundcheck for the other bands in the show.

That could possibly explain why I enjoyed the Spin Doctors as much as I did. Their sound was crisp and clear, and their performance was energetic and engaging. The highlight of the evening, however, was Blues Traveler. John Popper’s harmonica skills were nothing short of mesmerizing, and the band’s overall performance was tight and powerful.

See "Lolla” on page 12

In Poor Taste: Peter Arnold and Dack Stackhouse

The World According to Zappa

Hiya Shindiggers! This being our first of a series of articles, perhaps it will be helpful to briefly introduce this column. Our goal is to expand the horizons of the Davidsonian, and consequently your mind, at least musically. We will vent our frustrations in a positive way, trying to expose you, the reader, to various types of “underground” or otherwise little-known music. While neither of us claims to have any formal musical knowledge, we do know what we like. We also know that music, especially crap like Slaughter and Extreme, is not good just because John Boy or Billy says it is. However, this idea is a “two-way street.” Our approval of a group or album does not imply social value or worth. We are like Siskel and Ebert in that we hardly ever agree with each other, so how can we be expected to agree with you? Our purpose is to present different music to a community which (in the dormitories anyway) has become horribly oversaturated with the same old music being played over and over again.

This week’s installment will focus on Frank Zappa. (Yes, the guy who on Dack’s wall is pictured taking a dump.) We’ve decided to write about FZ because he, as many others, often suffers from problems resulting from people’s perceptions of him. “He’s a weirdo,” “He’s ugly,” “He’s too liberal,” or just plain “He sucks” are the most common responses to the mention of his art. However, not many people have heard anything by Mr. Zappa, Esquire (except possibly “Valley Girl”), so how can people make these prejudiced comments based totally on hearsay? After all, he has released more than sixty albums, mostly rock but also including jazz and classical works, since his first in the mid-1960s. He has been responsible for a vast amount of musical mastery through his own work and by his launching of many great careers. In addition, Frank is a funny guy, and many of his songs are scathing insults directed at corruption in our society (usually politicians or televangelists). Finally,

See "Zappa" on page 11

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992