THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

New York Times Investigative Reporter to Talk at Davidson

David Burnham, prize-winning former New York Times Reporter, will talk about “Fact and Fiction in the Major Media: NY Times, Washington Post and CBS,” on Wednesday, November 18. During his 15 years at the Times, Burnham wrote a major series of stories on the New York Police Department known as the “Serpico” stories, upon which the Al Pacino movie “Serpico” was based. In the late 1970s, while covering nuclear safety and proliferation problems, Burnham was in contact with Karen Silkwood and was the reporter Silkwood was going to deliver papers to the night she died.

Burnham is the author of two acclaimed investigative books, The Rise of the Computer State, about the impact of communications technology on privacy and freedom in the U.S., and Law Unto Itself: Power, Politics, and the IRS, an investigative study of the Internal Revenue Service. He is currently at work on a book about the U.S. Justice Department.

Burnham has worked as a reporter at CBS News, Newsweek, and United Press International, and has won awards including the Page One Award for Community Service, and Best Investigative Book of 1990. Burnham and Joanne Omang, a former foreign correspondent and editor at The Washington Post, will also be attending Professor Liz Benedict’s non-fiction writing class on Wednesday afternoon. Burnham’s lecture will take place at 7:30 pm in the 900 Room of the College Union Building. Please call 892-2272 for more information.

Davidson Ambassadors Seeks Volunteers

The Office of Admission and Davidson Ambassadors would like to thank everyone who helped with Discover Davidson on Sunday, October 4. Of the 232 students who attended, 58 have decided to apply early decision and 83 regular decision. Thanks for all of your help!!

This year the Office of Admission and Davidson Ambassadors have worked together to improve the tour guide program. Before this year, all you had to do to be a tour guide was to sign up for it. But this year, each candidate for a tour guide position had to fill out an application and go through an interview. With this new system, we chose 43 tour guides. We have had great success with the new program. As one senior from Salem High School said, “My tour guide was great—a very amiable and exciting person. Too bad the tour had to end.”

If you are interested in becoming a tour guide, be on the lookout for more information. We will have applications available after Thanksgiving, and interviews will be held after Christmas. This will be a year commitment (except for those who want to go abroad next Fall). FRESHMEN, you can now be tour guides too. If you have any questions, please call Will at 892-4705, Sally at 6374, or Lisa at 2186.

1993 Senior Class Gift — Kiss Your Mater Bye-bye

How would you like to have our class remembered? On December 2nd and 3rd the entire senior class will vote to decide what gift we will give back to our school. The Senior Class Gift is a tradition first instituted...by the Class of 1983, which makes this upcoming year its tenth anniversary. The purpose of the gift is not only to leave a lasting impression on the school, a token of remembrance, but also to benefit the Davidson of the future. Previous gifts have included scholarships for students of international studies, outstanding minority students, summer abroad programs, or for freshmen with outstanding leadership skills or service records. Other classes have given a computer fund, a campus fund (Class of 1990, after Hurricane Hugo), and a Love of Learning Fund. The Class of 1992 gave a Student Emergency Loan Fund which provides short-term interest-free loans to students in financial crisis.

The process for deciding a gift begins with gift suggestions. A couple of things to keep in mind might be the timeliness of the gift (i.e. the new Arts Center will be here soon, etc.) and the popularity of the gift, whether the gift should be an endowment gift or a fund. There are envelopes for gift ideas in Chambers, Little Library, and the Union, or you can contact one of the committee members. Amy Branch and Andrew Bazemore are this year’s chairpeople; Stephanie Glaser of the Development Office will assist the committee. Branch and Bazemore asked 15 individuals to join the committee in hopes of creating a diverse group representative of the class. The committee will take care of publicity and organization, as well as choose which 5 gifts will be selected for the class vote. Voting takes place on December 2nd and 3rd. The committee then selects about 50 to 60 people who will be responsible for soliciting money.

The goal is to collect $50,000 by the fifth year after graduation. The way an endowment gift works is through the interest accumulated. The gift can therefore have a lasting significance, and be reused year after year. A funded gift is one in which the money donated is the money used. This type is often a See "Gift" on

Come see our selections in all-cotton Rugbys, turtlenecks, sweaters, sportshirts by Cross Creek, Woolrich, and London Fog. Also, Turtle Aggy and knit cotton Duckhead Khakis. Quality & Fashion: Apparel for Men & Women

John Mack & Son
128 North Main St.
Downtown Mooresville
9 AM til 6 PM Mon - Fri, Til 5 PM Sat.
Ph. 664-4711

Noy Sigal PIZZA & ITALIAN CUISINE
259 S. BROAD ST.
MOORESVILLE, NC 28115
(704) 664-1210
OPENED WEDNESDAY - SATURDAY 5-UNTIL

BUY ONE ENTREE GET 2nd 1/2 PRICE!!
1 Per Table • Eat In Only
Expires 11/27/92

ALL YOU CAN EAT BUFFALO WINGS $5.00
1 Per Table • Eat in Only
Expires 11/27/92

LARGE CHEESE PIZZA $3.95
Includes Italian Bread & Salad
ANYTIME!
1 Per Table • Eat in Only
Expires 11/27/92

"Kids Eat Free Spaghetti & Meatballs With Adult Purchase"
Does Not Apply To Daily Specials

Pizza Engineers
3892-9046
12" Pizza w/ Two Toppings $4.99
16" Pizza w/ Two Toppings $6.99
18" Pizza w/ Two Toppings $8.99