THE DAVIDSONIAN —

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

By Chris Hoveland
The opening of the North Carolina Blumenthal Performing Arts Center, which took place November 21, marks a superb achievement for Charlotte and the performing arts. The $46 million complex includes the Belk Theater which seats 2,100, the Booth Playhouse which seats 440, as well as the multi-purpose Studio Theater. The new Arts Center is located in Charlotte’s “Art and Entertainment District” (which may have a new name in the future, if the City can make up its mind). Event-goers can find parking in the NationsBank Corporate Center Parking Garage, and take the “skybridge” into Founders’ Hall. There they can find entrances into either Belk Theater or Booth Playhouse. The new facility is handicap accessible.

The “European” horse-shoe designed Belk Theater is distinguished by excellent acoustics, plush seating, and a fiber optic lighting system. The farthest seat from the front of the stage is only 135 feet away, which indicates the intimacy of the design. Kathy Mattea with Hal Ketchum will perform here on December 4, the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra on December 12, and the North Carolina Dance Theater will perform The Nutcracker on December 17-20. (Call the Blumenthal Ticket Office at 372-1000 for more information.)

The Booth Playhouse is a substantially smaller theater which is ideal for repertory theater, children’s theater, film, community theater, choir, seminars, emerging dance companies, storytelling and others. The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte will perform J.S. Bach’s Weihnachts Oratorium (“Christmas Oratorio”) on December 19, and the Charlotte Repertory Theater will perform A Man for All Seasons by Robert Bolt on December 3-13. The front seats of the gallery at Booth Playhouse can be removed to create a cabaret theater or theater-in-the-round.

While the new facility is widely praised in many circles, there have been some criticisms. For one, Belk Theater has a smaller capacity than Ovens Auditorium. The problem arises when a performer’s agent refuses to lose the revenue of 500 fewer seats. Tickets would have to be raised roughly $10 per ticket to alleviate this problem, but the Blumenthal administration will not take this step. While some claim that the difference in size will offer a greater variety in performance halls, others consider it an esoteric decision on the part of the designers. Also, those seated in the back seats of the orchestra level will not be able to read the superscripts shown during an opera because of the overhang of the second level.

A Tribute and a Reflection:

J.S. Winkler

Hunt

Persimmon weather again and the hounds of thirty years ago

The Percussion Group: Ultimate Study Break

By Chris Hoveland

Studying Tuesday night? No? Maybe you need a release from the stress of upcoming exams. If that’s the case, you definitely won’t want to miss the performance of The Percussion Group at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. This unique, energetic ensemble, formed in 1979, includes three percussion virtuosos: Allen Otte, James Culley, and Rusty Burge. Their performance is guaranteed to be powerful and lively, and will certainly satisfy anyone’s craving for exciting entertainment.

The Percussion Group is the Ensemble-in-Residence at the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music. A special relationship with many composers over the years has brought about a large body of new and often experimental music written for, dedicated to, or first performed by The Percussion Group. They have performed in European, Asian and many North American concert halls including Alice Tully Hall, Kennedy Center, Lincoln Center, and many other halls and festivals. Davidson is very fortunate to have these performers — this concert is a must-see.

Below Grandfather Mountain

Sometimes in these hills a spirit settles in: thunder’s distance-muted din or wisps of engine drone from near the buried sun a wind-breath, abrupt and chill, threads the valley, high and creek-carved, and stories heard and never heard recall themselves: old Isaacs, his skeleton perched upright, intact in the cave its discovered; stock of the long gun eaten away but powder and primer dry enough to fire after two decades a ridge further down-the lights of Brown Mountain: tales of love beyond the grave these times are sealed by the sounds that persist after dusk: the whippoorwill’s reminders, the creek’s incessancy, hounds baying-hounds lost or gone wild in these hills.

By J.S. Winkler

Bugle on hill and through hollow Dal, or whichever midnight coffee man, rousing nudges the aged-grimed pot black on the embers myth or fox: predetermined winner- hark to the race, swig with cronies, cling in heart’s heart to the frosting earth persimmon weather again and someone you knew, were, the ghost in the ruined dog trot, stirs, whispers in the dusk

By J.S. Winkler

Persimmon Weather Again (for Gabe)

“Persimmon weather again,” you wrote, And listened to ken the echo of running hounds in a distant hollow.

Out there, in that ruined dog trot, Stirred the voice of a human howl. Someone we knew, you said, “whispering in the dusk.”

Now it is persimmon weather again. Like cronies roused by the horn, we gather near turned earth and stone, listening in the November air.

The cry of someone we knew, whispers in the dusk.

By Karl Plank 2 November 1992

Poet

Once again, with reservations, Herman sets his muse a-warbling, Pines to share his meager rations, Vows to scorn the critic’s garbling, Finds (since Pegasus will not fly):

Warble, NOUN-subsurface swelling Caused by maggots of the botfly.

Garble, VERB-rings less romantic Than garbanzo, NOUN. (Play, Gypsy!)

Is Garbanzo dashing, antic? No, alas, he’s just the chick pea.

Impure rhymes and unclear meanings, Faithless verbs and nouns you look up -Modern verse and nuclear preenings- Herman shuts both muse and book up.

By J.S. Winkler