"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXI MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992 NUMBER 3

By Tom Koonce

Over the summer, Davidson formed a new administrative position for the specific purpose of having someone handle the day-to-day operations of Patterson Court. After a thorough search, which involved reviewing over 200 applications for the job, the college hired Kurt Holmes as Patterson Court Advisor. Holmes’ job is equally split between handling the operations of Patterson Court and working with the Residence Life Office.

Holmes Arrives to Handle Operations of Patterson Court

In other words, he answers to two bosses: Dean of Students Will Terry and Director of Residence Life Richard Terry. Richard Terry said that the particular time of year will determine where Holmes will concentrate his time. Terry said, “It's a free-flowing thing.”

Holmes comes from Washington and Jefferson College, where he served as area coordinator supervising two primary residence halls and three apartment-style alternative housing units. He implemented several programs designed to incorporate traditional academic programs into residence life. He also trained the Residence Assistant staff at that college and was advisor to Alpha Phi Omega. He has also served as regional counselor for Theta Chi fraternity.

Holmes graduated with a Bachelor of Science from Allegheny College in Pennsylvania, where he majored in Economics and minored in Political Science.

See "Holmes" on page 5

Central American Missionary Shares Experiences

By Sally Stone

Derek Coursen, a mission worker in Central America, spoke to an intimate audience Thursday, September 10 in the 900 Room. Coursen spent four years in Nicaragua beginning in 1987 and most recently returned from a one-year mission to El Salvador. While in El Salvador, Coursen worked for both the Salvadoran Lutheran Church and for CUANES, the human rights monitoring arm of the Chicago Presbytery. CUANES, unlike organizations similar to Amnesty International, tries to take immediate action against Salvadoran human rights violations. Coursen was personally responsible for inquiring about cases and reporting violations.

Coursen spoke about the past year’s peace process. Peace efforts opened up December 31, 1991, when the Salvadoran government and the warring guerilla movement FMLN agreed to sign a later accord. The actual peace accord was signed on January 16, 1992, ending the twelve-year civil war. Coursen noted that outlined in the accord were substantial military demobilization on both sides, land redistribution, and government-induced economic and social reform. Foremost in the accord was a cease-fire agreement to begin February 1. Coursen emphasized this component because of its successful maintenance. The fact that fighting has stopped symbolizes El Salvador’s desire for peace.

See "Coursen" on page 6

Senators, Honor Council Members Elected

By Tom Koonce

Elections were held this past week for independent and freshmen senators as well as for new Honor Council members from the sophomore, junior, and senior classes. The Honor Council elections were held because of last year’s decision by the Student Conduct Council to expand the Honor Council from eighteen to thirty members. Each of the three classes elected four new members. Kelly Cunningham was elected President of theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Freshman class. The other freshmen senators are Bo Bartholomew, Theo Curey, Mayur Patel, Bobby Ramsay, and Allison Sabel. Greg Fisher was elected head of the independent senators and will be joined on the SGA by Vincent Choo and Otto Sharp. The four new sophomore Honor Council members are Sarah Orsborn, Josh Rogers, Laurie Self, and Anna Gray Anderson. Meredith Boone, Cliff Castelloe, Chris Malanuk, and Kirby Shealy are the new senior class members elected to the Honor Council. After having already had two run-offs on Thursday and Friday, the junior class will vote for their Honor Council representatives in another run-off to be held on Monday.

College Employees Volunteer in Hurricane-Stricken Louisiana
By Phil Atchison

On Wednesday, September 2, a forty-eight-foot trailer, seven college vehicles, and twelve employees left Davidson as a relief convoy destined for Morgan City, Louisiana. The eye of Hurricane Andrew had passed directly over this small town located southwest of New Orleans on the gulf. “The damage was different than that in Florida,” said Gigi Cooke, one of the team members. “In Florida, the land is flat and open, and so the buildings destroyed, primarily trailer parks and low-income housing, were crowded together in a very dense, open area. On the other hand, the houses and trailers in south Louisiana were partly sheltered by the inlets and bayous of the state. The damage was still just as severe as Florida’s, but not as concentrated.”

The team from Davidson, consisting of Sonny Robertson, Craig Wilson, Debbie Sink, Billy Hendrix, Ronnie Shirley, Ruben McIntosh, Keith Frye, Gigi Cooke, David Holthouser, Jerry Archer, Ray Thrower, and Bob Collins, carried with them donated supplies from the Davidson community as well as building supplies, generators, food, and water. The team will continue to stay in Morgan City, working out of Atkinson Memorial Presbyterian Church, until September 14. Students interested in spending their Fall Breaks (October 17-20) in Morgan City helping those distressed by Hurricane Andrew should contact Gigi Cooke, Davidson’s Service Coordinator, at 892-2460.

Davidson College

See "Andrew" on page 2

Wearn Lecturer Addresses "The Spiritual Life of Children"
By Ross Sloop

Dr. Robert Coles of Harvard University spoke Thursday evening in Davidson’s Love Auditorium. As a nationally renowned psychiatrist and social scientist, Dr. Coles has focused most of his work on the psychology and spirituality of children. He is a widely published author and has written more than 50 books. He visited Davidson as the 1992 Joseph Henry and John MacDonald Wearn Lecturer. In his lecture on “The Spiritual Life of Children,” Coles discussed at length his work with Ruby Bridges. Ruby was the first black girl to attend public elementary school.

See "Coles" on page 5

NEWS:
Meet the New and Visiting Professors. See page 2.
McConnell Pond Project Set to Begin. See page 2.

OPINIONS:
Frampton Looks at the J. Crew Fall Line. See page 9.

INSIDE ARTS:
See Exhibit in Chambers Gallery. See page 10.

SPORTS:
Men's Soccer Tops Richmond. See page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

---