16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Freshmen-Laden Women's Basketball Enters 2nd Year

Craig Omli and Ian O'Brien converge on Coastal's Damon Richvalski (top). Coach Charlie Slagle gives his team pre-game instructions Sunday (bottom). Photos by Casey Rogers

Young Wrestlers Look to Gain Experience Against Tough Schedule

By Matt Pitzer

Just a few years ago, Davidson’s wrestling team was not something to be proud of. Fewer than 10 men made up the team four years ago; one season Coach Tom Oddo finished with only three healthy wrestlers. But with an impressive group of freshmen and a strong recruiting class expected for next year, the team is coming back. Not expected to contend for any titles this season, this young team (currently six freshmen are projected as first string in the ten weight groups) looks to pick up valuable experience for next year.

“I want the guys to get as much mat time as possible,” sixth-year coach Oddo said. “Win, lose, or draw, I want them to give a dogfight. They may be outskilled, but the only way they’ll get better is to face the tough teams.” Which is one reason Oddo has loaded the schedule with strong opponents such as Chicago State, William and Mary, and Longwood to go with conference competition he labels “the best I ever remember seeing.”

See "Wrestling" on page 15

By Will Siler

Davidson women’s basketball coach John Filar urges patience from Davidson fans with this year’s team as it works to re-establish women’s basketball at Davidson. The program was given new life last year after a five-year absence at Davidson. One only needs to look at this year’s roster to distinguish the youth of the program: nine freshmen, two sophomores, one junior, and two seniors.

“At times we may have five freshmen on the floor... and that could be scary,” Filar admits. “But people need to be patient with this team. They will only get better as the season progresses.”

Watching the Wildcats this year could be much like watching a tennis match. Filar looks for his team to push the ball up the floor at every opportunity. “We’re going to run [the fast break] as much as possible. If we try to get into a half-court game I think we will be overmatched physically and they will just be able to pound us [inside],” Filar says.

Luckily, this year’s team fits the run-and-gun mold. The team consists of two natural centers, five forwards, and six guards. Due to their lack of size, the ‘Cats will look to “harass teams” with full-court pressure, push the ball up quickly, and shoot the three-pointer. Filar admits he’s never been a lover of the “three-point offense” but says that he is beginning to like it more and more. There are four or five players on this year’s team who can shoot effectively from behind the three-point line, Filar says.

Team speed is great, Filar says, and he notes that even his inside players run the court very well. Though she is 6’1”, center Kristen Ferrucci is one of the fastest players on the team. There aren’t many places on such a young team to look for leadership, but Filar looks for seniors Jennifer Roos and Jennie Plowright to supply “the stability and senior leadership that will be greatly needed.”

Freshmen center Ferrucci (6’1”), guard/forward Erin Butcher (6’0"), center Molly Burke (6’2”), and guard Tonya Sharpe (5’7”) should make heavy contributions early. Sophomore Kristin Solsrud should see lots of playing time; and the other players are looked to for heavy contributions.

There probably won’t be a superstar on the team. As Filar states, “People won’t notice any one player. They will likely see many different people coming through for us.” Other players who figure to contribute include Katrina O’Neal, Lisa Lyons, Addria Capps, Cara Crosswhite, Kristina Ford, Cynthia Minko, and Margaret Young. The Wildcats have elevated their status.From a club team a year ago to a “sprouting” Division I program this year. While last year’s schedule consisted of NAIA, Division III, and club teams, this year’s schedule includes twelve games. See "Women" on page 15.

Volleyball Ends Season With Tournament Loss to Western
By Janet Delery

The Davidson volleyball team concluded its season Friday afternoon with a 6-15, 7-15, 8-15 loss to Western Carolina in the Southern Conference Tournament at Furman University. The sixth-seeded Wildcats played a strong match against the third-seeded Catamounts but were unable to stop their powerful outside hitters.

After leading the Southern Conference in service aces throughout the season, the Wildcats once again used strong serving to disrupt the Catamount’s passing. Several players contributed service aces, with Amy Howard leading the team with two.

Lorie Logan directed the Wildcat offense with 28 assists. On the receiving end of her sets were hitters Janet Delery (ten kills), Katherine Anderson (nine kills), Catherine Milligan (six kills), Jennie Wagner (four kills), and Amy Howard (three kills).

Western Carolina proved very successful throughout the match at hitting through the Davidson block. As a result, the backcourt defense produced a limited number of digs. Katherine Anderson led the Wildcats in that category with 10.

Earlier in the week, Davidson played its best match of the season against UNCC. Seniors Delery, Milligan, and Wagner were honored before the match. Although the Wildcats lost the match in a tough five-game battle 11-15, 15-11, 6-15, 16-14, 12-15, the Wildcats felt that the match would give them momentum heading into the tournament.

Coach Carolyn Blake said, “Although we didn’t win, the match showed that we have made lots of progress since the last time we played them. The team really pulled together and played as well as we have all season.”

Against UNCC, the Wildcat offense was paced by Lorie Logan’s 50 assists, Katherine Anderson’s 21 kills, and Janet Delery’s 14 kills. In addition, the team played a fantastic defensive match in recording 78 digs. Catherine Milligan led the team with 17 digs, while Anderson, Delery, and Logan all added 14.

In recognition of the tenth anniversary of women’s athletics in the Southern Conference, each school selected a Volleyball Team of the Decade. Davidson’s team was announced at a reception at the conference tournament and included Maria Douglas, Mimi Plauche, Holt Hathaway, Delery, Wagner, and Howard.

In addition, at the Southern Conference volleyball banquet held Saturday morning, Davidson’s Michele Augustin was named the Southern Conference Freshman Player of the Year. Although Augustin missed several matches during the season due to injury, she...

See "Volley" on page 15.

Deegan | Continued from page 1

...keepers. The Davidson defense excelled especially in the last three overtimes, during which Coastal did not muster a single shot. The Wildcats’ best scoring opportunity of the game came five minutes into the first sudden-death overtime, when a pass up the left side of the field from Tommy Suter found Rob Ukrop at a dead run. Ukrop took the ball to the left side of the goal and had Hickey beaten to the far post but missed narrowly to the right.

The Chanticleers had administered a rather sound 3-0 defeat to Davidson on October 24 in Conway, S.C., dominating the game with their physical play, and Davidson coach Charlie Slagle felt that the experience did his team a world of good. “I think it helped us,” he said. “The first time, because of a combination of fatigue and intimidation, we didn’t play as well as we could. [Today], we didn’t back down at all.”

Against N.C. State, the ‘Cats will meet a team that it played in the regular season for the third straight week. Davidson squandered a 3-1 lead and settled for a 4-4 tie on October 6 in Raleigh. Deegan, who has had the two finest games of his life in his last two outings, considered his performance in that game “timid” and will be out for redemption in the rematch. The game should take place Sunday in Raleigh.