THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992 13

Zimmerman: This Time it is a 'Good' Album
By Wyman Rembert

Nota ‘Hot Item’ is what they said at the Central South Blvd Camelot Music store. They have 3 left of the 8 they got originally. The Pineville-Matthews Camelot has sold out of all 10 copies they have gotten each week for the past two weeks. It entered at #51 on the Billboard charts for the week ending November 21st. But, fear not, some people have good music taste. The Camelot ‘superstore’ on East Independence has sold all 50 copies each Friday for the past two weeks.

What are you talking about, you ask. Well, Bob Dylan’s (aka Robert Zimmerman) new disc, Good As I Been To You, of course. It sure ain’t Bon Jovi’s new album. They’re nice and have mass appeal, but I think I outgrew them when I was 15 or 16. I hope I never outgrow Bob. It’s kind of like Simon and Garfunkel; I can see myself listening to their music 30 years from now in my Lay-Z-Boy with my cardigan, my bald spot, and my pipe.

His music doesn’t have the mass appeal that Bon Jovi or Madonna have, so I doubt many of you will rush out and buy this disc as I did. I hope that if you are not already a fan of his, that you will at least take the time to listen to some of the album if a friend says that he or she has it. Who knows, you may find that you like it.

What can I say to make you buy it, or at least listen to it? Come on, man, try it. It’s good for you. No, really. If you’ve ever felt moved by some poem or short story in one of your English classes, high school or college, then chances are you are the type of person who has a good chance of being moved by Bob Dylan’s music. Maybe this isn’t the right album to start off with, but you gotta start somewhere.

After seeing him sing on TV a few times in the past few years and seeing him in concert in Charlotte two years ago I was skeptical. If you keep up with him you know what I mean. The man can mumble with the best of them. I was only able to understand some of what he was singing/mumbling when I saw him in concert because I was familiar with the songs. With songs one has never heard, who knows what to expect. I figured I would be lucky to catch even half of what he was saying on this new disc.

Happy! Happy! Joy! Joy! I was pleasantly surprised to find that I could make out almost all of his lyrics on this new disc. Only a few lyrics are indiscernible. Part of this is due to the fact that it is entirely an acoustic album. No backup singers. No drums. Nothin’ fancy. Just Bob, his guitar, and sometimes his harmonica. Just good acoustic music.

If you’ve seen Miles Mowry play at the Commons, the 900 Room, or the Outpost recently and found that you like acoustic music, then I think you’ll like Bob Dylan’s new album. Granted, his voice doesn’t sound as good as it has on most of his past discs, but hey, the guy’s getting old. He must be at least fifty by now! Pete Hamill said “Dylan’s art feels, and invites us to join him” in a review of Dylan’s 1974 album.

See "Zimmerman" on page 14

Madonna's Sex Creates a Stir
By Caleb Loring

Madonna’s new book, with the subtle title of Sex, caused quite a stir in many circles when it hit the book market in October. The book will not offend you if you are into orgies, homosexuality, ménage à trois, bondage, bestiality, and explicit sexual language. The book looks like a spiral binder with a metal cover and back piece. In the book, there are pictures galore, that do not leave much to the imagination, and some spell-binding, ingenious, and thoughtful narrative. The pictures explore many of the realms of sexuality, including homosexuality, and orgies, etc.

The book also sold out remarkably quickly, especially with its extremely expensive price tag, and a second printing is not going to be offered due to the expense of the “tamper-proof” packaging. After personally viewing the book, primarily negative thoughts came to my mind, and I see several issues at hand here.

First of all, is Sex art? This “art” issue has always plagued me about many pieces of alternative art, which is, I guess, the politically correct term to use. If the photos in Sex are art, then any type of pornography is art. I do not see this book as art, in any form, and if it is,

See "Madonna" on page 14

gotta have talent, guts, heart, courage, and determination. Yeah, you gotta have— all that stuff.
— Or you can just play the system. It happens. Not all the time, not even most of the time. But it happens. Ever wonder how they can possibly calculate that? But so much a pot for a certain department, and some of it gets used in various “promotional” expenses. Who ever knows? Same thing with the singles charts. A little politics and a little cash—what song is number one, or what album is number one?

Today, the album charts have moved to a computerized tabulation system called Soundscan, under which every album sold is tabulated. The biggest sellers are ranked. Simple enough. As recently as two years ago, however, the album charts were selected by employees called “Billboard reporters” (still do for the pop charts, I think, but, uh, as you can guess—that’s not my field). These reporters were selected from record stores all over the U.S. The system as it worked was a happy hunting ground for corruption. Record company executives could call up the Billboard reporters from time to time with special “requests,” especially for albums that had been on the charts for a long time or could make a certain album number one. All for a little money in exchange. How long did Dark Side of the Moon stay on the charts? Hmm...

For a little incentive, the people at the trade magazine chart departments (Radio and Records, Billboard) can make or break the career of an artist. Okay, now obviously, it’s not that simple; the chart people are not God. But number one songs, especially ones that stay number one, or a string of number one songs, can earn more attention from the media and from the radio stations.

By Scott McClean

O woe is me! After many months of looking forward to seeing Francis Ford Coppola’s adaptation of Bram Stoker’s 1897 novel Dracula, I, having been teased by those tantalizing trailers, came away from the opening night of the film more than a little disappointed. Touted as one of the highlights of the winter movie season, I think that perhaps this “cinematic extravaganza” was doomed by the hype surrounding it from the beginning; but then again, why shouldn’t we expect something great from the director of “The Godfather” trilogy and a cast that boasts such talent as Anthony Hopkins and Winona Ryder? This flick should’ve had sparks flying out of the screen and stuff. You will see great special effects, but I think just a little too much of the $42 million spent on the project went for razzle dazzle and not enough went towards a script that would do justice to Stoker’s novel.

The film opens with a historical background on the mortal Dracula (Gary Oldman) who returns from a battle in 1462 to find that his beloved bride has died. Upon hearing this, he beats up some priests, trashes his chapel, and renounces God (We are supposed to believe that this is why he turned into a vampire, which just goes to show you: Don’t get on God’s bad side).

Flash forward 400 years to London where we see a young law clerk by the name of Jonathan Harker (Keanu Reeves) preparing to go to Transylvania to settle a real estate transaction with a special client. Guess who? Anyway, Harker goes to Dracula’s castle, way up in the dark, dank, moist-strewn Carpathian mountains, with danger lurking ‘round every corner. Ooh, it was just too spooky for words.

Harker finds that his host is more than just a little weird and his castle is hiding several interesting little secrets (like Dracula’s harem of beguiling blood-sucking beauties). Unfortunately for Jonathan, he gets all in the Count’s Kool-Aid and doesn’t even know the flavor (translation: the boy was in Dracula’s business), so he is “detained” by a beauty at the castle while Dracula heads off for London to find his dead bride who he believes has been reincarnated in Harker’s fiancée, Mina (Winona Ryder).

I read the book three times and thought that I was frustrated and disappointed over the film. I’ve come to realize that anyone with half a brain should be able to see that beneath the glitter surrounding Dracula, there is no gold. Reeves was miscast in his role as the Englishman, Harker, and every time he spoke it seemed almost comical. It was obvious that he wasn’t just struggling with the English accent, but the part as well. I kept expecting him to say, “Yes way, Ted!” or something like that. Ryder also seemed uncomfortable in her role, but she is more professional and more talented than Keanu so she managed to pull it off better. I was much more impressed with newcomer Sadie Frost’s performance as Mina’s flirty friend.