Che Davidsonian .. "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992 NUMBER 19

Dean of Students Proposes Campus-Wide Alcohol Policy
By Tom Koonce

After several years under two separate alcohol policies—one for Patterson Court and one for the rest of the college, Davidson
is about to adopt a campus-wide alcohol policy that will drastically change the nature of alcohol use at the school.
After receiving a mandate from the Trustees last month to develop such a policy, Dean Will Terry drafted a working
paper for Davidson’s alcohol policy. He presented this report to the presidents of Patterson Court and the Council on Campus
and Religious Life last week.

The paper states that this policy is for “discussion, review, amendment, and suggestions.” It is therefore not the final word
on the alcohol policy. During the next few weeks Dean Terry will be seeking suggestions and input from student-faculty groups
such as the CCRL, the Student Conduct Council, the SGA, and the PCC.

Davidson Graduate Articulates His Art Of Articulation
By Jeff Oller

On Tuesday, as a part of the year-long Alumni Lecture Series, Class of ’77 member Tony Snow, Chief Speechwriter for
President Bush, shared his views on the intense rigors of Washington D.C., the state of the United States, and some
of the experiences he has had as the “fly on the wall” amongst our nation’s politics. Snow, hired to his
present position by John Sununu, began with an extensive commentary on Washington.

He maintained that our nation’s capital offered the best and worst of American culture while, simultaneously, living like an island
from the rest of the United States. Washington and Congress, he asserted, indeed hold the last refuges of scoundrels. “Washington,”
he joked, “is said to provide the best in Northern hospitality and Southern efficiency.”

He outlined three tips for surviving D.C. First, he said, was to not take friendship personally because the city is
status essential, class-conscious, and self-segregated. For example, he said, on the President's private jet, Air Force One, the President rides
up front in his spacious and luxurious compartment. His chief executives ride in a compartment behind him that is only
slightly less comfortable. Behind the executives are two compartments for staff. The first is significantly less luxurious than the executives,
and the second, the furthest back of all the compartments, is worse than the first staff compartment. In summation to
his first tip, Snow maintained, “It’s not who you know in Washington, but what you are.”

His second tip was the fact that, in D.C., the urgent overwhelms the important. The Capitol, Snow maintained, survives on
what he calls “crisis oxygen.” This means that the energy and adrenaline that people need to get through an average
day in Washington comes from the presence of constant crisis, whether real or imagined. Every day in Washington, he said,
starts with the morning editions. The most feared and respected of all journalists are those that are ruthlessly accurate. According
to Snow, “In politics, sur-

See "Snow" on page 4

The reasons behind this new alcohol policy are that the Trustees and Dean Terry believe that the current design is
not working and alcohol abuse is a very serious and prevalent problem at Davidson. Dean Terry said, “I sense we
are sitting on a powder keg and something could happen down there any night and we would all be in
duck soup, including the houses...”

Terry wrote eight policy objectives in the report. They are:
1. To provide campus-wide information concerning state law regarding the use of alcohol;
2. To encourage student responsibility for their behavior regarding the consumption of alcohol as prescribed by college regulations, set forth
in this policy;
3. To encourage a campus climate which does not tolerate alcohol abuse;
4. To change the social expectations of the campus and develop a more creative, healthy, and social

Davidson Student Organizes Russian Aid Program
By Tom Price

Oleg Ordinartsev, an exchange student from Pyatigorsk, Russia, has collaborated with Davidson College Presbyterian Church in creating an aid program
which willprovide food for needy Russians. The program hopes to send 5-8 tons of food to Pyatigorsk by the first
week in April. The program is a historic first because it involves direct aid from one small American church to
a small Russian church. As far as can be determined, no other effort of this type has ever been attempted.
In the past, all relief efforts have been centered in the large cities of Russia such as Moscow and Leningrad.
Ordinartsev said that direct aid to his community is important in order to avoid the extensive black market which often
prevents the proper distribution of aid efforts. Ordinartsev first conceived the idea during the Christmas worship services at DCPC. He
then contacted Rosemary Raynal, who was his English professor this past fall, and she enlisted the help of her husband,
the preacher at DCPC.

environment; 5. To provide an educational program which informs students concerning the use and abuse of alcohol from the freshman
to the senior year; 6. To provide a program of intervention, treatment, and support for those students who are at
risk from the abuse of alcohol; 7. To establish appropriate disciplinary mechanisms and penalties. See "Alcohol" on page 2.

Working out the logistics for the program was a long frustrating process for Rosemary Raynal. She first tried calling various
relief agencies. These organizations, she said, either wanted money or would distribute the food to Moscow. Next, she tried to
gain assistance from the U.S. military. The Raynals were unable to get past the intricacies of military protocol until they
asked Col. Moncure, a professor of military science, for help. See "Russian Aid" on page 3.

Wells Named New Dean of Admissions
By Laura Cunningham

On January 27, Nancy Cable-Wells, presently dean of students at Guilford College in Greensboro, accepted the offer to become Davidson’s
new Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. A committee composed of student, faculty, administrative, alumni, and trustee representatives chose her
after conducting a national search. Excited to have the opportunity to work at Davidson, she wants to become familiar with
all campus constituencies. “I want to take time to learn Davidson, and then make recommendations if there need to be
any,” Cable-Wells said in response to questions of priorities in the admissions office. Since late 1987, Cable-Wells has worked in
all areas of student life at Guilford, including student recruitment and admissions, athletics, and programs for student development. Recently she
has been part of a planning team focused on forecasting for higher education, tracing the trends and outside forces which
impact colleges. At Denison University for ten years prior to her present position, the new dean directed the career services.
See "Cable-Wells" on page 2.

Medical Humanities Speaker Offers Understanding of AIDS Physician Dilemma
By Chris Wells

On Tuesday, as part of the Medical Humanities Lecture Series, Dr. Abigail Zuger spoke on the ethical dilemma of whether
physicians have a moral obligation to treat AIDS patients. Zuger said that in the last ten years, research has established
two facts. One is that HIV, the virus which causes AIDS, can be transmitted from patients to physicians. The other
is that many doctors are reluctant to care for patients with AIDS. In light of these certainties, Zuger asked, “...are
health care professionals who avoid these patients exercising their professional right, or are they committing a moral outrage?” Zuger began
her assessment by listing several surveys where a majority of doctors consistently stated that they would not treat AIDS patients
if given a choice. Zuger concluded that there is “a pattern of disinclinations” which includes a risk to the physician’s
health and family, a risk to the physician’s livelihood, and a feeling that the patients will not recover. She continued
by citing historical evidence which is analogous to the modern moral dilemma concerning AIDS patients. See "AIDS" on page 3.

INSIDE
NEWS:
Professor Speaks On Animal Rights. See page 2...
Phonathon Raises $168,000. See page 2.

OPINIONS:
Birks Address Recent Honor Trial. See page 8.

ARTS:
Alumni Photo Exhibit in Gallery. See page 10.

SPORTS:
Sports Week. See pages 13-15.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
