8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

Deep Thoughts: Baudelaire and his “Get Drunk”

I never thought that French poetry would affect the way I live. I once had to memorize a poem by Baudelaire as an assignment. The poem is titled “Enivrez-vous” which, literally translated, means “get drunk.” Far too many of us take Baudelaire’s apparent advice entirely too much and too often. However, it was not necessarily Baudelaire’s intention that everyone walk around snockered all the time. A close examination of the poem reveals a deeper meaning. Rather than a rallying call to step up to the bar, the poem is a command to drink deeply of life and the experiences that it offers. These experiences may, incidentally, include alcohol, for Baudelaire says “wine, poetry, or virtue, it’s your choice.” In fact, Baudelaire himself probably ingested too much wine and various other mind-altering substances. Despite his personal excesses, his message remains valid: find something that sparks your interest and immerse yourself in it. By doing so, he says, we avoid being martyred by the oppressive passage of time which can break you mentally and physically.

Granted, today we would all probably tell Baudelaire to lighten up a bit. I think you can easily transpose his message to a more modern format. A modern, not-so-depressed Baudelaire would want us to stop spending our lives in front of the television and to live actively. He would urge us to avoid just going through the motions of everyday living. Rather, we should each day robustly suck the marrow out of every opportunity afforded us. We at Davidson should heed this advice especially, since our backgrounds and our being here give us a wealth of opportunities that most do not have. When we choose the same route as those less fortunate by waiving our chances to explore the myriad avenues available at this college, we are shamefully wasting our lives.

Many among us follow the easiest road through life, refusing difficult challenges and thereby passing up rewarding experiences. On this campus, many of us choose our class schedules according to some preconceived standard of difficulty, regardless of our interests. We avoid too many commitments, or at least those that require some appreciable amount of effort on our parts, for they might cut into the time we enjoy playing video games in the Union. As a senior, the reality that we are only here for four years is rapidly beginning to horrify me. Perhaps we need to know from birth that we are only here on Earth for a lifetime. I believe this entails looking at “Enivrez-vous” less from a literal standpoint and more from the perspective that the poet himself would have us read it.

Tonight - Don't Miss

Jerome Badanes will show his award-winning film Images Before My Eyes and read from his work.
Monday, October 5
7:30 pm
Perkins Auditorium - 4th floor Chambers
Co-sponsored by the Literary Arts & Dean Rusk Program

I cannot lie. I almost got caught eyeing expensive, sensual and very cold lingerie, but I ran out of ‘The Half Price Sale’ in emergency situations. “Aaaargh! Where are my BVD’S?! I need to buff the car!!” Whereas you heads and a poor guy who was obviously tricked into coming into the store. He was with his...wife and looked as if he wanted to escape to Radio Shack and play with the carbon-plutonium radioactive diodes but was chained to a series of conversations that kinda went like this:

WIFE: Do you think this looks good on me?
GUY: Uh huh.
WIFE: Or do you think that the silk nightie with the Indochinese art would look better?
MAN: Uh huh. Uh, honey, where are the carbon-plutonium radioactive diodes that you promised would be here?

The conversation endured and he kept staring at the floor trying to nonchalantly deny the fact that he was actually asked to feel the new Bohemian Style Leather Panties. He seemed to be covering himself with his Ace Hardware shopping bags, trying to draw the least amount of attention as if he was afraid that Donahue might lurch out from behind the “Real” Armadillo Skin Garter Belts.

Women get really excited about 1/2 price sales at places like Victoria’s Secret, Thalheimers, and Sears Lingerie Outlet (right next to the automotive section). However, men don’t really care about their underwear except that we always want it but never have it. You’ll never hear, “Hey gals, there’s a clearance sale at Victoria’s Secret!” but you might actually hear, “Hey guys, plaid double-insulated flannel shirts are only $4.99 at Eddie Bauer. Wanna carpool?”

While I surveyed Victoria’s Secret, I saw many women power shopping at the 1/2 Price Sale, attractive mannequins with no Titanium Lined Brassieres. There are women in the women’s section and there are women in the men’s section. That confuses me. And the salespeople ask me tough questions like: “Do you need any help?” I don’t feel like saying something like “Uh, where do I go?” Actually, I’m more prepared when I enter the GAP nowadays. Thus our question and answer sessions go like this:

GAP: Do you need any help?
ME: (Smiling brightly) Yes, could you tell me where the men’s Pique Dyed Chambray Denim Shirt is?
GAP: We don’t carry those anymore.
ME: Oh, well then... (very suavely now) WHERE DO I GO?

It seems that the only time that I’m drawn to these two stores is when I go shopping with women. That’s why I say, DON’T GO SHOPPING WITH THEM! The next time I go shopping with Whitney and Margaret, I’m going to do like my father always did when he was dragged shopping by my mom: Find a nice, sturdy, green bench and curl up and read through the Wall Street Journal, Barrons, Sports Illustrated, and War and Peace. Don’t pretend that you’re really not at Lerners. Don’t coolly browse at Benneton like that size six dress is really going to match your shoes. And guys, most of all, don’t get suckered by the Carbon-Plutonium Radioactive Diode bit. It’s never there.

Tickets to attend A RAP SESSION WITH SPIKE LEE will go on sale for Davidson students and staff on October 9 at 2:00 PM with a limit of one ticket per person.