THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

Courtesy of College Relations

Endowment Reaches $100 Million

Vice president for business and finance, Robert Sutton, recently announced that the college endowment topped $100 million this past fall. As of December 31, the stocks, bonds, and real estate which constitute the endowment were valued at $103,472,000. Growth of the endowment was a result of increased value of existing assets and additional assets raised over the year. Robert Sutton said in the Campus Chronicle, “It was the function of a strong stock market and good performance by our portfolio managers and strong support from the Campaign for Davidson has also helped.”

Half of Davidson’s endowment is comprised of stocks and the rest is made up of bonds and real estate. The endowment’s constant return has ranked it in the top quarter of all college and university endowments.

Epes to Appear on “Jeopardy”

German professor Hansford Epes will appear in a special seniors tournament on “Jeopardy” sometime between March and September. The show will be taped on February 24-25 in Hollywood. Epes was chosen along with 22 other people during tryouts held in Charlotte. James Gilbert, assistant director of development, was also chosen to appear on the game show but he has yet to be called to report to Hollywood.

“Jeopardy” is flying Epes to Los Angeles and will pay for his stay at a Beverly Hills hotel. There are fifteen contestants in the tournament with three players in each competition. “Jeopardy” originally aired from 1964-75 and was picked up again in 1984. Among TV game shows it is ranked only behind “Wheel of Fortune.” Around 500 contestants appear on the show each year. Epes has also served as the coach of Davidson’s college bowl. He hopes his experience as coach will help out his chances on “Jeopardy.”

Town Meeting Scheduled for Wednesday

In order to bring positive action out of campus discussions regarding intolerance within our community, a town meeting is scheduled at 9:00 p.m. Wednesday, February 12. This meeting intends to broaden understanding and communications at Davidson. Along with discussing ways to improve group interaction, the meeting will attempt to give everyone an opportunity to understand and bring about changes and answers to the difficult issues that exist at Davidson.

Quiet Continued from page 1

counselors to deal with these problems,” Terry noted. “We can make strides when we are armed with information but I’m not hearing it. Faculty can be great assistants in this. All they’ve got to do is call me.” While these professors have not gone to the source to tackle the problem, at the Tuesday meeting they did discuss the idea of establishing quiet halls or dormitories to provide havens of silence on campus. Dean of Students Will Terry sees quiet dorms as an option in the near future, if only on an experimental basis. He would much rather see the initiative come from the Council on Campus and Religious Life, however, instead of a faculty committee with only minimal student representation. Williams said quiet hours were placed on the agenda because “there was enough concern that the rights of students to study and sleep were being overridden.”

“We are not trying to get into the in loco parentis situation again,” Williams said. The onus is now on Registrar Sue Ross who faces the unenviable task of making labs and seminars mesh more easily with the many extracurricular activities Davidson students involve themselves in.

CAMPUS CRIME

5:00 p.m. Monday, February 3 - 3:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 4

Between the above times, someone broke into Jerry Stockdale’s unlocked vehicle in the Copeland House parking lot and removed a Sony tape recorder, two cassette tapes, and a black and white garage door opener. The possessions are worth $130.

6:00 p.m. - 10:20 p.m. Sunday, February 2

Between the above times, Davidson student Peter Herndon reported that someone entered his unlocked vehicle in the computer center parking lot and trashed it. Nothing was stolen, however.

11:59 p.m. Sunday, February 2 - 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 4

Between the above times, some unknown person(s) bashed in a Davidson student’s right front passenger window with a rock. This person(s) then proceeded to remove a hand-held, black NEC cellular telephone from its permanent mount on the center front console of the vehicle.

CCRL Passes New Pledge Guidelines

By Curt Bickers

Dean of Students Will Terry and the Council for Campus and Religious Life recently approved written Guidelines for Pledge Activities. This year’s guidelines are generally the same as last year’s except for a few subtle changes. All freshmen, faculty, administration, pledge trainers, and Patterson Court Presidents have received a copy of these rules. Dean Terry said that a pledge activity is “anything a pledge does as a requirement for initiation.” He also said that hazing is “anything physically or mentally harmful to someone.” The guidelines have been clearly stated and any violation committed should be reported. Violators will bepunished according to the guidelines for the infraction which they committed.

Guidelines for Pledge Activities Spring 1992

The following are guidelines for pledge activities for Patterson Court houses. These rules are designed to protect the freshmen from an intrusion into their academic responsibilities and to protect both organizations and the college from excesses that might damage reputations, facilities, and individuals. A violation of any of these guidelines may result in any of the following: the suspension of pledge activities for a period of time or altogether; the suspension of social activities for a given period of time; the inability to initiate pledges; the inability of a house to ‘rush’ next year; or the suspension of the house from its association with the college. Individuals, of course, can be sanctioned under the Code of Responsibility.

Pledge activities may not last more than seven weeks, excluding Spring Break, and must be concluded by April 1. The beginning date is February 1.

1. A pledge may not spend more than six hours (excluding study hall) during the week on pledge activities.
2. No pledge activity will go past midnight Sunday through Thursday.
3. No pledge activity may reflect negatively upon the reputation of the college or the participants, and no pledge activity may include any project which would violate the Davidson honor code (stealing).
4. No pledge activity may involve the use of alcohol including pressure on pledges to drink during visitations.
5. No pledge shall be forced to engage in any activity that conflicts with academic responsibilities. Academic responsibilities are defined as class assignments, rehearsals, field work, etc.
6. Fines may not be used to coerce pledges to attend meetings and activities which conflict with their academic responsibilities.
7. No pledge activity shall result in damage to personal or college property or to any person. This includes activities which are engaged by whole or part of a fraternity directed at another house on Patterson Court.
8. No pledge activity may involve hazing of any sort.
9. No pledge shall engage in an activity identified with his fraternity in any academic building on campus.
10. There shall be no public nudity, including intrusion into other houses on Patterson Court.

SOLIDARITY WEEK

In the midst of a week of tension on campus, Maura Cullen spoke to a receptive audience about the importance of respect, love, and understanding for others.

Mubarak Awad Urges Non-Violence
By Tom Price

Mubarak Awad, a Christian Palestinian who has been deported from Israel, spoke Tuesday afternoon in the 900 room as part of Solidarity Week. Awad was born in Jerusalem in 1943 and attended high school there. He spent his college years at Bluffton College, which is a Mennonite school. Currently, he is working in Washington, D.C. for a non-violence organization that he founded.

Awad stressed the importance of understanding and non-violence in approaching the tension between the Jews and the Arabs in the Middle East. He listed several factors that he believes have led to increased tension in the area. Among them were the collapse of the Soviet Union and the "corruption of the Arab world." He considers the Arab world to be corrupt because its leaders have been unrepresentative of the people and have continued to deny voting rights and free elections.

Awad said that the Israelis wanted "recognition, security, and peace" from the Palestinians. The problem, Awad said, is that Palestinians are willing to grant all of these concessions, but they also want the Golan Heights. Awad noted that there has been a softening in the Palestinian attitude since the initial establishment of the Jewish state in 1948.

Awad also attempted to explain the association between Palestinians and terrorism. He believes that Palestinians began using terrorism to express their anger and bitterness over the establishment of the Zionist state. Awad said that this violent stance has not worked because the world "has heard the bombs, but not the cries." Awad also stressed that the Palestinians have been responsible for far fewer deaths than the Israelis.

To help ease tension in the Middle East, Awad is advocating U.S. support for both sides. He said that if the U.S. were to simply switch its support from the Israelis to the Palestinians, another forty years of high tension and violent coexistence would result. By supporting both sides, Awad believes the U.S. can play a positive role in quelling the tension. Most importantly, however, Awad called for non-violence in the region. He said, "The holy land is not holy anymore" and that the region has become a "land of war." He praised the efforts of President Bush and Secretary of State Baker in getting the Middle East nations together to talk. Awad called on everyone to grab the hand of a Jew and an Arab and to be a "bridge-maker" for peace because "we do not need to hate someone because his beliefs are different than ours."