THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

Davidson

Arts

Movie Review: Basinger Dominates Final Analysis
By Scott McLean

Like many others of you, when I first saw the trailer advertising a psychological thriller starring Kim Basinger, Richard Gere, and Uma Thurman, I thought to myself, “Color me stoked,” and made a mental note to myself that I would have to see this film once it was released. While “Final Analysis” manages to live up to many of the expectations that I had of it, it still falls way short of the classic Hitchcockian films that it attempts to imitate.

Gere is Isaac Barr, a San Francisco psychiatrist who moonlights as an expert witness for the county court system. His most intriguing patient at the moment is Diana (Uma Thurman) - a young woman whose emotional instability and sexual paranoia classify her as grade-A neurotic. When Diana suggests that perhaps the good doctor should consult with her sister about their family history, etc., Barr takes her up on the idea. I doubt that he expected his patient’s sister to be anything like Kim Basinger, however.

Basinger is Heather Evans, a woman who is stuck in an unhappy marriage and who has more on her mind than the well-being of her sister: she jumps into Barr’s bed faster than you can say tramp. What ensues is a series of mind games that is guaranteed to leave you dizzy by the movie’s end. This is clearly Basinger’s picture and boy does she have fun with it. She uses her overpowering sexuality to her advantage to create a multifaceted character that gives new meaning to the term “femme fatale.” Gere is also good here, knowing when to relinquish to Basinger on the screen and when to take up the slack when he flies solo.

The performance that seems to take a back seat to both actors and yet is more engaging than either is Uma Thurman’s “troubled” sister schtick. Subconsciously or otherwise, this girl exhibits a subtle sensuality that is downplayed when she shares the screen with Basinger but ignites when she is with Gere. From the incomparable “Dangerous Liaisons” to the erotic “Henry and June,” Thurman has emerged as a talented young actress who is definitely going places.

Despite the abundance of talent in this film (yes, even Basinger demonstrates that she is capable of good acting), it is reduced to little more than a better-than-average thriller. Director Phil Joanou’s riveting style, reminiscent of “The Grifters” in many respects, allows the movie to leap out from the screen, but that doesn’t help either. What would help is if someone took an ax to the first half hour of the movie. I should have brought a pillow to the theater and had the usher wake me up when the show was really ready to begin. I don’t know what the scriptwriter was thinking, but ten minutes of watching Richard Gere in a bar complaining about being single is hardly entertaining. The movie drags and drags with burdensome exposition, but once it gets rolling it picks up momentum and moves at an eye-popping pace. If you can make it through the first part with both eyes open, then this flick will definitely put you on the edge of your seat; if not, have a Coke and enjoy the juju beans.

Music You Do Not Want to Miss
By Chris Hoveland

I’ve always enjoyed a live musical performance of any style, and I wish there could be more around campus. As a result, I try to look around the Charlotte area for a good show. Below I’ve listed some shows that at least I would like to go to in hope that other music fans might be able to take advantage of the music scene outside of campus. I hope readers will excuse my somewhat limited scope of music, and I welcome anyone to contact me about performances that might interest others. I’d also like to thank Creative Loafing.

Col. Bruce Hampton and the Aquarium Rescue Unit (Cat’s Cradle of Chapel Hill, Wednesday, February 26)

Davidson has seen this band on Patterson Court and at the 900 Room within the last year. Their live show, as Chip Petree notes in his review this week, is a must-see. With a new album, the Colonel, as he is affectionately called, may find himself on the road towards financial success. This is secondary to his already successful musicianship, to say the very least. Lately, the Colonel has been opening up for Blues Traveler, and has also played with...Phish. Bob Margolin with Nappy Brown and Ann Rabson of Saffire (Double Door, Charlotte, Wednesday, February 26); For Stormy Monday Blues Night fans, this knock-out combination cannot be missed. Bob Margolin, who was the guitarist for Muddy Waters for many years, put on a great show in the 900 Room earlier this year. Ann Rabson is the ivory tickler of the all-woman band, Saffire, and in my opinion, is the real force behind that group. Ms. Rabson told me herself that playing with Bob Margolin is a musically inspiring experience. 

Also: Coalition Jazz Orchestra & Vintage UNCC, Wednesday, February 26 Dillon Fence at The 1313 Club, Friday, February 28; U2 with Pixies at the Charlotte Coliseum, Tuesday, March 3 Rush with Primus at Dean Smith Center, Saturday, March 7 Wynton Marsalis at Spirit Square, Wednesday, March 16 Phish at 1313 Club, Friday, March 27

CORRECTION: The Davidsonian solemnly apologizes for errors which occurred in last week’s Inside Arts section. B. J. Rudell’s “The Slice of Life,” in which a line was omitted, will be reprinted in a future edition. Also, the second to last line of Matt Cox’s “Trees are the Answer,” which began “I'll see in this world...” should have read “We'll see in this world of bitterness and strife, more meaning to our wonderful life.”

BRUCE HAMPTON & THE Album Review: AQUARIUM RESCUE UNIT by Col. Bruce Hampton Makes Strong Debut By Chip Petree

Basically frightened. It’s the name of a song on the new album from Col. Bruce Hampton and the Aquarium Rescue Unit, but right now it is how I feel after hearing the debut (sort of) of the Athens-based band. The talent of the individuals in this band is outstanding, a fact made obvious on this live album. Col. Bruce Hampton has long been an underground, cult institution in the Atlanta music scene. The Hampton Grease Band performed in the late-60’s and early-70’s at Piedmont Park with other acts such as the Allman Brothers and the Grateful Dead. Since, the Col. has continued to perform his eclectic mix of jazz, blues, and bluegrass with a large rotation of various performers until about five years ago. Drummer Jeff Sipe, also known as Apt. Q258, and bassist Oteil Burbridge joined with the Col. initially, followed by guitarist Jimmy Herring and mandolin player Matt Mundy. On this album, the Unit is also joined by Count Mbutu on percussion and Chuck Leavell (who we’ve recently seen on Allgood’s new release) on keyboards.

The self-titled album, released on the recently-revived Capricorn label, is a live recording of a performance at the Georgia Theatre in Athens. The introduction is given by Widespread Panic's John Bell, who affectionately and respectfully refers to the Col. as his “daddy”. The band responds with “Fixin’ To Die”, a jumpin’ bluegrass tune, followed by the upbeat blues number, “Yield Not to Temptation”. The individual talent of the Aquarium Rescue Unit is everywhere apparent, but a few instances on the album require special mention. The drum/bass interplay on “Time Is Free” is evidence that the Unit possesses the tightest, hottest rhythm section in the business.

Further evidence of Oteil’s bass genius is “Basically Frightened”, where he scat-sings in unison with his bass in a jazzy, hormone-injected solo that literally gives me the willies every time I hear it. I mean, this guy is totally sick, as are his bandmates. Jimmy Herring’s slicing guitar work on “Compared To What” punctuates the work of Oteil and Apt. Q258, and the mandolin work of Matt Mundy is both brilliantly fast and insanely composed. The ability of the Unit to settle into a groove pocket and turn it into intense jammin’ continues on “Time Flack”, “Davy Crockett”, and “Quinius Thoth”.

Although this album thoroughly smokes, it pales in comparison to a live show. Some of Bruce’s weirder tunes have been left off to accommodate crowd favorites. The theatrics of Oteil, Matt Mundy, and the Col. cannot be appreciated, and, in the words of Matt Mundy, the album comes across as a bit “tame.” Col. Bruce shows attract only the finest of freaks, from neo-Nazi skinheads to blatantly expressive homosexual men. Don’t let this deter you from seeing this band, however, because everyone there becomes transformed by the power of the Col. and the Unit. This band scares the hell out of me, but it’s definitely worth the $14-$15 for the disc.

Next Week: Phish, Picture of Nectar