THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

Visual Arts Continued from page 10

These gifts are fundamental to the success of the project. A $2 million dollar endowment is required by the college,
in addition to the cost of the building. The interest accumulated on the endowment will be included in every year’s
budget in order to cover maintenance expenses. Jackson explained that the function of the endowment is to prevent hikes in
tuition that would otherwise be required simply to maintain the facility. As of now, $5.5 million has been pledged. If
you are interested in more information about the building or donations, contact Laura Foxx in the Development Office at (704)
892-2162.

Floor Plans for the new Visual Arts Center. The first floor, above, will be flanked by several terraces, while the
second story will house the individual studios. (Drawings not rendered to scale here.)

Art Studio (1-7)
Faculty Offices (1-2)
Faculty Monitor
Painting Studio #1
Drawing Studio
Wash and Storage
Student Exhibit Lounge
Atrium (Open to Ground Floor)
Storage
Stairs
Drawing Studio
Individual Student Studios

Davidson Arts
Call Chris Hoveland 892-7775

FREE MOVIES at THE LAKE
ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6 PM
Wayne's World starts Friday

INTRODUCTORY OFFER
Rush me two 20-exposure rolls of your highly acclaimed 35mm film, one each at 200 ASA and 400 ASA. Enclosed
is $2.00 for shipping. Limit: 2 rolls per household.

Bumstead Continued from page 10

2. Trisha Yearwood - A bold statement, yes; unfounded, certainly not. She is the only female artist in country music
history to have her debut single (“She’s In Love With the Boy”) go number one. Her voice is exciting, yet
beautiful. Garth Brooks said it best: “She could sell oil to the Arabs with her voice.” Watch for her to
keep climbing.

3. Patty Loveless - She has come very close, but has never really been the consensus reigning queen. Her full-throttle,
gut-wrenching, yet still tender vocals never fail to land her songs as hits, and she won’t be giving up the
fight any time soon. Excellent live.

4. Mary-Chapin Carpenter - The first on this list to write her own material; and what clever, gripping, caustic, and
intricate material it is. I especially recommend her to you members of the Davidson community. Not only has she stayed
just outside of mainstream country with some folkier, bluesier fare; but also she has written material (much of which does
not make it to radio) for the intelligent listener. Twice she has stopped the show at the CMA awards. She
was the ACM’s best new female in ’90 and has two Grammy nominations this year. Her music is outstanding; her
live show is dynamite; and she is quickly getting national attention.

5. Wynonna Judd - Another bold statement, considering her first single has been on the radio a few days. She
no longer has her charismatic mama by her side to promote her; she’s on her own.now. - But, I always
felt that Naomi’s presence held Wynonna back in song selection. When it comes to vocal talent and beauty, she may
be at the top.

6. Pam Tillis - Keep an eye on her. Her vocals are pleasing and her writing is very clever and
catchy. With “Don’t Tell Me What To Do” under her belt and “Maybe It Was Memphis” all over the radio
today, she is building a following.

7. Lorrie Morgan - I could be underestimating this one, but she seems to have lost a lot of ground.
She’s got the talent and the strong backing of her record company, but she’s just not hitting the radio the
way she was a year ago.

8. Kathy Mattea - Boy, talk about a slip. Last year, she was the top female vocalist. Her new album
is great, but she is not getting any publicity, and she is not recording commercial music. Often accused of being
too far from the mainstream, the last move she needs to make is to move further in that direction.

9. Tanya Tucker - Okay, look. She’s bigger than this, and I know it. (This one falls into that “personal
preference” category). Her older stuff was wonderful and clever; I just don’t think she’s worth all the hoopla she’s been
getting. I’m still bitter about her beating Reba for best female at the CMA’s.

10. Holly Dunn - Ever since this summer, when “Maybe I Mean Yes” was yanked from the radio under the
accusation that it encouraged acquaintance rape, Holly Dunn has been a non-entity. Her music, much of which she writes, is
great, though; look for her to come back.

So, those are the top women in country today as I see it. I hope you agree (and I hope
I didn’t leave anyone out)! Come back next week, and we’ll check out the fellers. (Garth will not be included
in this ranking so consider on your own who the top guys are...)

STUDENT PARKING

IF YOU WANT TO GET FROM START HERE

FACULTY PARKING

your Career Office. If you have any q

WE WILL BE VISITING DAVIDSON COLLEGE: FEBRUARY 12

IES is a nonprofit teacher placement organization. Each year we visit over 70 colleges and universities and counsel students about
teaching careers in independent schools. For more information about IES and an interview please telephone Kirk R. or Brooke Burns
at (800) 257-5102.

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
353 NASSAU ST.
PRINCETON, NJ 08540
(800) 257-5102

FIRST NAME LAST NAME

35mm Film

ADDRESS

Get prints or

CITY STATE ZIP

slides from the same roll

Seattle FilmWorks
Elliott Bay at Pier 89
P.O. Box 34056
Seattle, WA 98124-1056

Ideal for use in Canon, Nikon, Minolta, Konica, Olympus, Pentax... any 35mm camera.

limited availability from other labs.

when you shop by mail.

©1992 Seattle FilmWorks: Free film offer does not include developing. Process SFW-XL™ at Seattle FilmWorks with tomato red.

FREE 2 ROLLS

Try this Exciting New Film! “Its main forte is color reproduction. You can see the difference between cherry red and
tomato red.” - Photographic Magazine

Now you can try the 35mm film Photo Magazine calls the best 200 ASA print film in the world! To
introduce you, we’ll send you two rolls Free. Fine grain, rich color, wide exposure latitude — perfect for everyday shots.
Shoot in bright or low light — indoors or outdoors. And you can order prints, slides, or both, from the
same roll! Try this remarkable film today.

100% Satisfaction Guaranteed

Seattle FilmWorks
