THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992

Medical Center.
‘The University of Mi-

nomics, English, mathematics or
physics, economists at Cornell

Davidson Habitat for Humanity
Opens Thrift Store on Main Street

Barbie Anderson, the store’s general manager, thought of the idea for the store after visiting similar establishments in Western North
Carolina. Upon learning about their successes in raising money for the building of more homes, Anderson wanted to try it
in Davidson. The revenue generated by the store will be invaluable, Anderson says, because in a small community, it is
difficult to find the continued financial resources necessary to build more houses. She submitted a proposal to the board on
June third, and two months later, the store was open. The location also houses the first offices of the organization,
and it is hoped that this will make it easier for people to get information about volunteering with building houses.
Founded in 1988, Davidson’s chapter of Habitat has built nine houses, and has just broken ground on number ten. It
is hoped that the money raised in the general store will enable this number to continue growing. The store is
chock full of bargains, ranging from wine glasses to board games to sofas and chairs. Donations have been so plentiful
that they have had to use some warehouse space near the college warehouse to store larger items. Donations are accepted
at the store, or arrangements can be made to have larger items picked up. Anderson is very interested in working
with Davidson students, both as customers and as volunteers. They need people to work both in the store and in
the warehouse, and can also use people to pick up and deliver merchandise. The store always accepts donations of any
usable items. If you are interested in volunteering your time to the store, call Ms. Anderson at 896-8822. And the
next time you take a stroll down Main Street, drop in! You may find something unique and useful for your
room, and you will be supporting a worthy cause.

Student Beaten To Death
MIAMI (CPS) - Police have arrested eight men in connection with the death of a Vietnamese pre-med student who was
chased, beaten and kicked by a mob after he objected to slurs about his nationality. Luyen Phan Nguyen, 19, went
into a coma after receiving repeated blows to his head and died Aug. 17 at Broward General Medical Center. Nguyen’s
father, a physician, left Vietnam in 1980 and brought his family to the United States, where they settled in Coral
Springs. The Miami student attended a party Aug. 15 in Coral Springs, north of Miami. According to witnesses, words were
exchanged after someone made a slur about Nguyen’s nationality, and the altercation moved outside to the grounds of the apartment
complex. As many as 15 young men may have taken part in the attack on Nguyen. “The attack is believed
to have been racially motivated due to the victim’s Oriental nationality,” a police report said. Eight men have been arrested
on second-degree murder charges. Prosecutors also will consider pursuing hate crime charges, said Conchita Ruiz, director of media relations at
the University of Miami.

Aid Affects Graduate Rates
ITHACA, N.Y. (CPS) - Fellowships or research assistantships offer the fastest and surest way to receive a doctoral degree in
economics, English, mathematics or physics, economists at Cornell University said. Having a fellowship or being a research assistant encourages graduate
students to complete Ph.D. programs more than if they were funded by teaching assistantships, tuition waivers or were self-supporting, said
Ronald Ehrenberg, a professor at Cornell's School of Industrial and Labor Relations. The report also concludes that there could be
a future shortage of professors because American college graduates are less likely to earn doctorates now than 20 years ago.
This trend is occurring in part because of the increasing time it takes to earn a Ph.D., which rose from
a median time nationally in all disciplines of 5.5 years in 1968 to 6.9 years in 1988.

THE DAVIDSONIAN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING--7:30 Big Screen Room

1992-1993 Joseph Henry and John Macdonald Wearn Lecture Series

ROBERT COLES
Harvard University
"The Spiritual and Moral Life of Children"

Thursday, September 4th 4 P.M.

Sponsored by Committee of Public Lectures

Attention Medical Humanities and Pre-Medical Students: There will be an important organizational meeting for "old" and "new" students at 4:30
p.m. on August 31 in the Morrisson Room. Please try to attend. Refreshments will be served. Freshmen welcome.

The Davidson Garden Club’s Annual Sale Will Be Held Saturday, September 12 9AM-12 Noon On The Davidson Village Green. Plants,
Food and Other Treasures Will Be Offered... Come Early. Rain Date Sept. 19

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM

"Who and What is Robert Coles? Humorist, political activist, psychiatrist, minstrel, wandering storyteller, mystic, wise man, poet, dissenter, and yes,
I'll use the word, secular saint."
-Andrew Greeley, Chicago Tribune

EXIT 28 CORNELIUS
UNFORGIVEN (R)
3:05, 5:05, 7:05, 9:05

HONEYMOON IN VEGAS (PG13)
3:15, 5:15, 7:15, 9:15
