THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

The Purpose of The Davidsonian

First and foremost, the purpose of this newspaper is to serve as an informational source and forum for the student
body of Davidson College and the community at large. The Davidsonian is open to everyone within the Davidson College Community,
especially the student body, but including faculty and staff. Your ideas, comments, opinions, and input are desired, appreciated, and depended
upon.

The production of this paper is no lightweight task. The editors and editorial board spend in excess of 100 hours
a week working on the publication of the paper. Within these 100 hours includes the development of story ideas, the
writing of stories, the layout of the paper, cutting and pasting, and the delivering of it to your doorstep every
Monday evening.

Within this time, the editors and staff members sacrifice their free time that could or should be spent studying or
enjoying college. Yet, they willingly and weekly sacrifice their time and sweat towards the production of this paper. For the
50 or so regular contributors to the paper, the editorial board reiterates its deepest thanks. Without you, it would certainly
be a lost cause.

Four years ago, production of The Davidsonian could have been described as sporadic at best. Within the stay of the
class of 1993, the paper has become a consistent, steady publication. The editors and staff continuously strive to stay on
top of the issues that we feel and hear are of interest to you. But we cannot do it without
your aid and support. Ultimately, it is your publication. If you see things about the paper you don’t like or
that are lacking or can be improved (we realize that there are many), it is your responsibility to tell us.
We are not omnipotent. We cannot do everything. We certainly do not claim to be professional journalists. All we are
is a group of Davidson students who have been willing to sacrifice significant portions of our lives to ensure that
this community has a weekly informational outlet and forum. We aren’t perfect. We realize that this isn’t the New York
Times or The Washington Post. It is simply a college newspaper. We don’t want your sympathy or pity for our
efforts... just your help.

Letters

Student Defends Davidsonian

To the Editor,

Although I have only attended Davidson for three weeks, I strongly agree with Associate Professor of History Sally McMillen’s statement,
“many Davidson students exhibit deep concern about the larger world beyond this institution.” However, my understanding of The Davidsonian’s purpose
as a newspaper is that it should report issues directly affecting Davidson students, as well as the opinions students hold
on these issues.

If The Davidsonian were to give student opinions on global issues priority over opinions on subjects which affect more students
more directly, the Davidsonian would become a “pseudo” Washington Post Weekly. Assuming our newspaper did become more globally oriented, we,
as Davidson students, might be left without a forum to voice our opinions on matters directly affecting our campus.

I understand Dr. McMillen’s concern that the Davidsonian editorial board might be ignoring serious “outside” issues which might or might
not directly affect a few students on campus. However, I honestly believe that last week, despite Hurricane Andrew’s wrath, the
majority of students on the Davidson campus were more concerned about the new alcohol policy. A good journalist or editor
would write...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

about the issue which interests or affects the majority of the publication’s readers, rather than the issue which most affects
the society as a whole. Of course, it would be terrifically interesting to read a letter to the editor from
a student whose family and lifestyle is being torn apart in Yugoslavia, but how many students would this affect? It
makes a good, informative story, but is not a pressing issue affecting the Davidson campus. I do not want to
be misinterpreted as culturally insensitive, but I do feel that campus issues, from alcohol policies to graduation requirements, should be
given

See "Tarver" on page 9

Davidson Resident Disturbed By College Policy

To the Editor,

We on North Main Street are again the victims of a changing college policy which does nothing to correct the
behavior of students who live in town. For many years we have suffered with the misbehavior of the SPE’s at
619 N. Main after the college voted against allowing fraternities to be selective in their membership. We finally overcame that
illegal action of the fraternity being in a residential neighborhood by hiring a lawyer and having a hearing with the
Town Council. The house was evicted.

Now we are being subjected to noise and animalistic behavior by a group of students who live (and visit) in
the old Johnston House (on the west side of the street, wooden, between two brick houses, one story). We have
called the police who come and the party quiets down momentarily. When they leave, the noise comes back. These so-called
students yell obscenities, urinate off the back deck in broad daylight and in the yards of neighbors at night. They
have to be violating the college's new alcohol code as well as the town ordinances against fraternities in residential neighborhoods
and no more than three unrelated people can live in a house. I have been told they belong to a
college fraternity that is supposed to be on campus. They seem to be using the house for a party house
outside the restrictions of the new policy. Why can’t the college and/or town do something? They should not be impotent
about a public nuisance, which is what these students have become. We have appealed to the landlord, Wilson Sadler, and
he has not been any help. Why should we suffer? Somebody must be responsible. These students couldn’t act this way
without some chemical help — alcohol or whatever. Surely, their parents don’t know how they are despoiling our neighborhood. Immediate
action must be taken.

Sincerely,
Mary F. Stough
N. Main Resident

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondence to: The Davidsonian; P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Krenzer Retorts Criticism

To the Editor,

“Scam: stain, spot, scorch, a hurt, shame.” Given Mr. Webster’s definition, I am not really sure what Mr. Frampton alluded
to in his article. Maybe Mr. Frampton meant to use the word “sham” which means “to deceive or delude with
false pretense; to trick, cheat; to pass off by fraud or imposition.” In either case, one could not fault me
for taking his characterization personally.

First of all, the process of charging a team entry fee was in place at Davidson long before I came
to work here or even realized that Davidson had an intramural

See "Krenzer" on page 9
