14 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

I have yet to crack a book this semester. Professors don’t panic, though—it is not because I’ve been on Patterson Court every night swilling beer. You do not need to call a faculty meeting to slap additional restrictions on the Court in an effort to drive students into the library. Who then, is responsible for my academic negligence? Look no further than Richard Terry, provider of the senior apartments and cable TV in each room. Translate that accusation as ESPN. This acronym is most definitely a four-letter word, at least when it comes to trying to study during college basketball season. Big Monday is worse than Monday Night Football for keeping a sports junkie’s eyes glued to the TV screen. But Big Monday is only the start of things. With the Big Ten, Big East, and ACC games of the week filling the middle of the week, it is hard to counter the inertia of sitting on the couch. We haven’t even come to Raycom yet. They gladly provide us with at least one more ACC game to watch.

Friday night is the one chance to rest during the week. It provides a chance to release the energy saved up from sitting on a couch all week. Here is where the sports junkie can go down to the court and have a few beers and find out what’s going on outside the world of college basketball’s top twenty. Some sports junkies use this opportunity to show off the prowess of their carefully molded beer guts. The sports junkie, though, must show at least a slight degree of control lest his hangover be too bad to allow him to get out of bed for the 12 noon game. The break between the 12 o’clock game and the 2:30 game gives the sports junkie a chance to run out to Burger King and grab some nourishment for a long afternoon and evening on the couch. ESPN has sometimes televised up to five games on Saturday, forcing this sports junkie to miss several parties. I thought that college basketball should be taken in moderation after staying up well past midnight to watch the end of the New Mexico State game.

On the Sports Front
By Robert Grubb

Women’s Hoops Thrashes W&L, Edges Brevard For First Two Wins
By Jennifer Roos

After being terminated in 1986, women’s basketball has returned to Davidson College for the 1991-92 season under head coach John Filar. The team ended its 1,865-day absence from Davidson by defeating Brevard College 60-59 Saturday afternoon in Belk Arena. The victory gave the Wildcats a two-game winning streak. Previously, they beat Washington & Lee 59-42 in Lexington, Virginia. Senior captain Faison Nuckolls led the way in the victory with twenty-three points and fourteen rebounds, and junior guard Jennifer Roos had eight points and nine assists. That game marked the ‘Cats’ first victory and came over another school just beginning a women’s program.

“We played extremely well,” Filar said. “I was impressed with our composure on the road. They are playing without recruits and scholarships just as we are. The victory shows that we are moving in the right direction.”

Playing without uniforms against Brevard, the Wildcats, who were backed by strong crowd support, pushed the lead to eight points at 20-12. At halftime, the ‘Cats led by five points. At the beginning of the second half, they proceeded to hit their first three shots and extended the lead to eleven. Their largest margin was thirteen points.

Swimmers Fall to ECU, Prepare for Busy Home
By Chris Hood

Although Davidson’s men’s and women’s swimming and diving squads fell 120-102 and 98-74, respectively, at East Carolina on January 11, head coach Ron Morrow left Greenville pleased with the ‘Cats’ performances. “They’re pretty much...a powerhouse,” he conceded of the Pirates. Brevard dropped into a zone defense in the second half in order to shut down Nuckolls, who scored sixteen of her twenty-two points in the first half. In addition, they used a full court press and forced Davidson turnovers, cutting the lead to 44-40 with under ten minutes remaining. It was tied a couple of times, but the Wildcats held on to a one to three-point lead throughout the final minutes of the game. Junior guard Jenny Plowright, who finished with eight points, and freshman forward Kristin Solsrud, who finished with ten points and eight rebounds, hit several key outside shots against the zone defense. Senior captain Skye MacLeod led Davidson with nine rebounds and also had eight points, while freshman Margaret Baker came off the bench to grab six rebounds. Brevard had a chance to win the game on a last-second shot with the score 60-59, but the shot was off target and MacLeod grabbed the rebound. “It couldn’t have been a better home opener,” Filar said. “It was very exciting to play in front of that many people and to beat a school like Brevard with an established program.” Davidson faces Pfeiffer away on Monday, and the next home game is Saturday at three o’clock against Meredith College. “It was a very positive experience for us to swim and dive against that caliber. We learned a lot there. We’re scoring points, and with more experience, we’ll continue to get better.” Over Christmas Break, the teams traveled to the University of Tampa to compete in a meet against schools such as Xavier, North Dakota, and Georgia. The women took sixth in the meet, while the men came in eighth. Again, Morrow was encouraged with the efforts, especially “considering we only took half the team.” Looking ahead, the ‘Cats will return home Saturday, January 25 to face the University of the South, Georgia Southern, and UNCC.

Photo By Holt Mechavay
Senior Faison Nuckolls puts one up past two defenders from Brevard.

Before the meet, the official dedication of Cannon Pool will be held. On Sunday, the ‘Cats will battle UNC Wilmington at home; Florida A&M will visit Davidson on February 8. The ‘Cats will host the Southern States Swimming and Diving Championships February 14-16 to close out the season.

School Records Fall in Women's Track's Indoor Debut
By Peter Hurtado

Though plagued by early injuries, the women’s track and field team still managed to open their 1992 campaign with several new school records and some promising performances. Senior captain Kathy Beach led the way, setting school records with fine times in the mile (5:20.4) and 1000m (3:11.2) events. Beach is coming off her most successful cross-country season ever and is sure to carry her success onto the track again this spring. Freshman Maria Whitehead recorded a school record performance in the 200m (29.6) in her first-ever collegiate race. Whitehead also ran well in the 500m; her time of 1:25.9 makes her one of Davidson’s best ever in that event. Freshman Carolyn Meadows became one of Davidson’s fastest women in the 3000m run when she ran an outstanding time of 11:23.5. Carolyn hopes to continue her improvement and will surely provide some great performances this spring. Sophomore Jean DeMoss began her season with a mile time of 6:01.8. Sophomores DeMoss, Lisa Sitek, and Jennifer Humphrey will provide this women’s squad with valuable racing experience this spring, while freshmen Whitehead, Meadows, and Sarah Orsbon add plenty of talent. Multiple school record-holder Heather Tarpley returns this spring in good shape after a semester abroad. Coaches Andrew and Manson are pleased with the performances of this weekend and hope to see further improvement. The women will send runners to the US Air Invitational and to the Lynchburg Invitational next weekend.

Write for Sports. Because we said so.