THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

Faculty Housing Set to Begin in October

By Tosh Crystal
As the size of the college steadily expands, there has become an increased need to house the expanded staff and faculty at Davidson. The trick, however, is to provide accommodations near the school, rather than sacrifice the community feeling by having faculty and staff in Cornelius or farther away from Davidson.

In pursuit of this goal, the college is going forward with plans to develop faculty and staff housing on the McConnell Pond property, a 198-acre area on Concord Road. John Cameron Morrison, an employee at the Davidson College Development Corporation, volunteered information about the project.

The college is going to use the land to construct small residences around a central park on McConnell Pond itself. The actual construction is set to begin in October, and the project is slated to be finished in 5 to 7 years. Despite this long-term completion date, occupancy is expected to begin by March of 1993. Although this occupancy date may seem ambitious, Morrison has no doubts about it. “This is not ambitious, this is absolutely going to happen.”

With enthusiasm like that, it seems certain that the project is going smoothly, and the Davidson College Development Corporation is leading the effort to bring the Davidson College Community and the whole town of Davidson closer together by the 21st century.

Guess What Kids

There are New and Visiting Professors!

By Jeff Oller

Davidson is welcoming several new and visiting professors this year. From Art to Chemistry, from Mathematics to Religion, twenty new and visiting professors are teaching courses.

Cort Savage is the new Assistant Professor of Art. He received his degrees from Indiana and Syracuse.

Language departments have hired five new or visiting professors.

D. Henry Buckley is a visiting French instructor who is off campus this semester. He received his degrees at Tufts and Michigan. Elizabeth Waghall hails from Sweden where she received two degrees in Swedish and Teaching. She has received two degrees in German, including her Ph.D., at Washington University in St. Louis. Waghall is teaching two speaking courses and a 16th-century German literature course.

Judith Robey comes to the Davidson Russian department under the title of Visiting Assistant Professor after teaching at Williams last year. Robey received her B.A. in German-Russian from UVA and her Ph.D. at Indiana in Russian Language. She is teaching two speaking courses and a course titled “Madness in Russian Literature.” Robey said she was struck by the fact that in Davidson, perfect strangers wave to her from their cars.

See "Professors" on page 4

Davidson Photography Club Begins Second Year

By Russ Tarver
The Davidson Photography Club kicked off the year last Thursday at 7:30 p.m. when Scott Ferrell, a noted photojournalist, presented slides of his photography and spoke about various aspects of his work. Sponsored by the Davidson Photography Club, Ferrell’s presentation displayed his work from artistic as well as educational perspectives.

Ferrell, Chief Photographer for the Fauquier Times-Democrat in Warrenton, VA, began his career in photography by taking pictures for his high school newspaper. His work has been published by the Associated Press and has appeared in various newspapers ranging from the Richmond Times-Dispatch to The Washington Post.

Ferrell captures the essence of his photographic style when he says, “It really floats my boat when I see and can photograph people doing what they do.” He asserts that his goal as a photographer is “to bring out a fact of life in an aesthetically pleasing way.” The Photography Club, which meets every two weeks, was founded in 1991-92 by John Ford, ’95. No experience or equipment is needed. Members of the club are given special darkroom privileges. Club president Aimee Norman comments, “Before we started this club, there was no way to get in the darkroom unless you were involved in the newspaper or yearbook."

Andrew Continued from page 1

contributed a substantial sum of money for building materials, and anyone who wishes to help in this effort should send a check made out to the “Davidson College Hurricane Relief Fund” to the physical plant office.

GREEKS & CLUBS

PLUS $1000 FOR THE MEMBER WHO CALLS!

No obligation. No cost. You also get a FREE RADIO

1-900-952-0528, ext. 65

Princeton Review!

We know you guys like to party a lot. But still, is anybody minding the store?

You failed to notice an important change in the LSAT. The question format that you call Triple True/False, which used to appear in all sections of the LSAT, has not appeared on the LSAT since February 1991. But you still prep your students to “crack” this obsolete question format.

That's wasted cracking, guys. May we suggest that you briefly disregard your margaritas, and update your LSAT course materials? We know it's work, but somebody's gotta do it.

For information on Contemporary LSAT prep, call:

333-PREP or 333-7737

KAPLAN

The answer to the test question.