THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

Bucks Continued from page 1

On actual meals, Pritchard admitted that it was difficult to tell and therefore also impossible to restrict what was bought
at lunch. He also admitted that the number of students eating lunch at the Commons had dropped substantially and there
was greater absenteeism than in previous years. As should be expected, this year there has been a substantial increase in
the number of students who eat in the Commons for lunch and dinner. According to Pritchard, lunches and dinners are
up around 20%. Dinners have also seen an increase of about 10%. Traffic in the Union has decreased by around
10% this year and cash is off at the Union by 10%.

The Bonus Bucks system gives students extra money to spend on meals at the four dining locations on campus during
the semester. Students may not spend their Bonus Bucks at the Laundry or for items bought at the Bookstore. Students
on the 19-meal plan receive $100 worth of Bonus Bucks, 14-meal plan students receive $90, and 10-meal plan students receive
$80. The drawback is that students may no longer count breakfast or lunch at the Union or lunch at Baker
as one of their meals for the week. Therefore, they may only use Bonus Bucks for any meals at these
locations. Correspondingly, the number of meals on their meal plan can only be used at the Commons.

Pritchard did not solicit any Davidson students’ opinions when he decided to initiate this new program, aside from only a
dozen students he talked to on campus this past summer. He said that he received no negative feedback from those
students. Pritchard did research other colleges and universities to determine what kinds of meal plan systems worked best. He studied
programs at places such as Vanderbilt, Western Kentucky, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Richmond. When asked why he didn’t look at schools
closer to Davidson’s size, Pritchard said, “Most schools our size have more rigorous control over their meal plans.” He said
that such schools also don’t have four food service systems or a declining balance program. He cited Wofford as an
example saying that they have only a 21-meal plan.

Currently, there are 466 students on the 19-meal plan, 181 on the 14-meal plan, and 163 on the 10-meal plan.
Pritchard said that he has allowed eight students to eat lunch at the Union because of work or class conflicts
that they have had. He also said that he has noticed that this new system has caused a problem for
students who eat at a house or off-campus who might have bought a 10-meal plan to use for lunch in
the Union. He said, “Obviously, I need to make some adjustment. I just want to make sure, when I change
that again, I do what’s right for everybody, the fair thing.” He also added that Auxiliary Services might even come
up with an entirely new meal plan for next term.

Price Continued from page 1

1982. Other poetry volumes include The Laws of Ice and The Use of Fire. Price’s poems have won the Levinson,
Blumenthal, and Tietjens awards from Poetry.

Price departed from the normal address given by convocation speakers by not delivering an actual speech. He instead read poetry
and commented on the various poems that he chose to read to the Davidson audience. Price read the poems with
ease in a beautiful voice which kept the audience in silence as he seemed to succeed in being able to
touch everyone personally. He spoke with confidence and eloquence, mixing humor with his personal input about the poems several times
throughout the talk. He described the poems that he chose as ones “that have been important to me at various
stages of my life.”

Price said that he was first introduced to poetry at an early age and, although he can’t remember the name
of the first poem read to him, he can remember the distinct sound of poems being read aloud. Price said
that he was taught to learn and memorize long pieces of verse when he was young and it has helped
him several times when he was alone.

The first poem he read was originally in German and he translated the verses having not ever spoken or even
been taught German. The short poem was entitled “Initiation.” He followed this upRESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

CASH IN ON GOOD GRADES.

If you're a Davidson College freshman with a solid high school record and good first semester college grades, you may
be eligible to receive a three-year Army scholarship. Army ROTC scholarships pay 80% of Davidson's tuition and fees, and each
school year they also pay for books and optional fees, plus a $100 personal allowance. That's over $13,500 per year.
They also provide leadership experience and officer credentials impressive to future employers.

You will receive an invitation to apply for an Army scholarship very soon. Think it over. If you like the
idea of improving your leadership credentials while attaining financial independence, go ahead and apply. For more information, contact the Davidson
College Department of Military Studies in Belk Hall. Call 892-2165.

with a poem entitled “Great Sonnet of God’s Grandeur." Price then read a sonnet written by John Milton on that
poet’s blindness. He said that many have read this poem as one that helps them through times of sorrow or
despair, but Price said of it, “I think it's one of the scariest poems ever written.”

After reading the sonnet by Milton, Price read a poem entitled “On My Own” by Phillip Levine. He said that
this humorous poem was one of his favorites. Price then read a poem on the meditation of Shakespeare’s Tempest by
W.H. Auden. He said that Auden was “perhaps the most skilled poet of the English language aside from Tennyson.” He
continued his exceptional reading with a poem by John Keats which ended with the line “I hold it to you.”
Price commented, “I hold it to you, isn’t that what poetry is all about? Isn’t that what human life should
be about?”

Price finished his reading with a poem of his own entitled “Hymn.” He related the story of how he had
written this prayer for James Taylor to perform at an ordination. Taylor has now recorded this and it is set
to be released on an upcoming album. After finishing his readings Price said, “[Everyone should] spend at least a quarter
of an hour every day reading poetry aloud. What you will accomplish... is that you will be a wiser, better,
more loving mate for all those you touch as you proceed through whatever time is allotted you.”

Upon the completion of the speech, Kuykendall and Interim Dean of Faculty Ben Klein presented Reynolds Price with an honorary
degree naming him Doctor of Letters. Dean of Students Will Terry began the presentation of awards by describing the Goodwin-Exxon
Award. This award was established by Henry S. Goodwin ’30 and Claire Goodwin and funded in part by the Exxon
Education Foundation to a sophomore, junior, and senior who exemplify the highest standards of character, good sportsmanship, and consideration of
others. The recipients of this award were Kelly Jeanne Murray (Soph.), Jennifer Leigh Humphrey (Jr.), and Robert Schafer Hughes (Sr.).

Lieutenant Colonel John Moncure then presented the Department of the Army Superior Cadet award to Jennifer Allyn Brown (Sr.), William
Loomis Pomeroy (Jr.), and Joseph Watkins Beach (Soph.). These students were the outstanding cadets in their corresponding classes. The Alumni
Association Award was given next to George Andrew Antonelli, the sophomore who attained the highest academic average as a freshman.
Leigh Hamrick then announced the newest members of Omicron Delta Kappa, a national leadership society recognizing eminence in five phases
of campus life: scholarship; athletics; social and religious activities; publications; and forensic, dramatic, musical, and other cultural activities. The new
members from the Class of 1993 are Tracy Elizabeth.

See "Price" on page 3

HELP WANTED

Reliable Person to look after infant at Lake Norman home. Part-time, flexible position. Experience & Transportation Required. Call Liz or
Adam. $3.75 892-7743

ALL STEREO SOUND
3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6 PM

MOVIES at THE LAKE
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS 892-3841

Single White Female (R)
3:20, 5:20, 7:20, 9:20

HELL ON EARTH
3:15, 5:15, 7:15, 9:15

HONEYMOON IN VEGAS (PG-13)
3:05, 5:05, 7:10, 9:10

Clint Eastwood
UNFORGIVEN (R)
3:25, 7:05, 9:30

MR. SATURDAY NIGHT (R)
3:30, 7:00, 9:25

Guatemalan Belts: $5.00
Guatemalan Handbags & Accessories
T-Shirts & More

STUDENTS
Extra 20% off with this Ad and Student I.D. thru October 10.

Lakeshore MarketPlace (next to The Irish Cue)
Highway 73, Cornelius / 892-3990 / M-SAT 10-6
