Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Musch Continued from page 20

"Since I’ve been here," McKillop said. The ‘Cats hit 61% of their shots from the field in taking a commanding
61-35 lead. By the time Imortal mounted a late charge, Davidson had built an insurmountable advantage. Narat scored 32 points,
and Zimmerman notched 23; each hit five three-pointers, as the Portuguese defenders played the pair loosely all evening. Also important
was the success off of the fast break, which was certainly a question after point guard Frank Harris chose not
to return to Davidson this year.

"Our goals were to develop a winning attitude, to get experience, to get better and to find out if the
things we planned to do — run the fast break and shoot the three-pointer — would actually come to pass.
It was very clear that we accomplished those goals today," McKillop concluded.

The men take on Tennessee Temple, another NAIA school, at home Saturday at 3:00 p.m. Tennessee Temple will probably not
be as proficient with its long-range shooting but should possess more raw athletic ability than St. Joseph’s.

SPORTS

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

19

Rugby Loses to Wake Forest in Championship

By Dack Stackhouse

Last Saturday the Davidson Wildcats had the honor of hosting Wake Forest for the Division II State Championship match. Both
teams were extremely pumped up for the game, as was evident by the violent and sloppy rugby which dominated the
first half. Davidson, unfortunately, was unable to organize itself in the first half of the game. As a result, Davidson
only managed one try in the first half, but it was a beauty. "Menacing Mike" Kessler tore the ball loose
from one of the WFU players and drove it into the try zone for five points. However, that was the
only highlight in the half for Davidson as Wake Forest went on a scoring spree.

With the score 22-7, there was a lineout awarded to Wake Forest near the try zone. Rafael Candelario leaped high
to win the ball, bringing it down in the Davidson try zone, thus, according to the rules, giving WFU a
scrum down at the five-meter line. However, a Demon Deacon managed to get his hands on the ball, which should
not have mattered, but the referee decided, erroneously, to award WFU a try. Could this decision have anything to do
with the fact that the referee was Wake Forest’s injured starting scrum half? We’ll never know. Wake Forest managed to
accumulate 30 points in the first half, as compared to Davidson’s 7.

The second half of the game was dominated by technically sound rugby and complete suppression of Wake Forest. The Wildcats
proved that they ARE the best team in Division II play by going on a scoring spree of their own.
After a beautiful blocked kick by John Walsh, Davidson’s eight-man picked up the ball and ran it in for the
first try of the second half. Shortly afterwards, heads up...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.Play by Tom Shelburne and Scotch Turner yielded another try
from a quick lineout. Shelburne passed the ball in to Turner, who, taking two WFU defenders down, passed the ball
back to Shelburne for an open run to the try zone. Davidson kept the scoring momentum going by playing constantly
on the Wake side of the field. One play yielded a pass to Jim Tayberry, who made a beautiful run
from near half field, faking out and breaking tackles by five or six people. Tayberry’s score, giving the Wildcats a
total of 24, proved to be the last of the game as there were only forty seconds remaining. Once Davidson
settled down into their own style of play, WFU was hopeless. They did not even come close to scoring in
the second half, but time ran out before the Wildcats could mount the comeback. Honorable mention is deserved to everyone
on the Davidson team. Each person played a very important role in the team’s best season in years. The team
can only improve in the spring, and with a large number of underclassmen participating, the future looks very bright for
the Wildcats. With a rested, healthy, enthusiastic team returning, there is no doubt that the Wildcats will claim the State
Title. It is just a matter of time.

In the final game of the Division II 3-on-3 basketball tournament, Cuninadouwse defeated Under A Bed and Overweight. Under A
Bed had fought its way back through the loser’s bracket for the chance to play Cuninadouwse twice.

AUDITIONS
Paramount Parks, formerly Kings Productions, is holding auditions for our 1993 season at Paramount's Carowinds in Charlotte, North Carolina. A
variety of positions are available including singers, dancers, comic actors, instrumentalists, technicians, and specialty acts of all types! Come join
the fun!

CHARLOTTE, NC
Sunday, January 17, 1993
Sunday, January 24, 1993
1-2 p.m. Instrumentalists
1-3 p.m. Technicians, Characters, Escorts, Ushers
2:30-3:30 p.m. Show Characters
3-4 p.m. Dancers

GREENSBORO, NC
Saturday, January 23, 1993
University of North Carolina, HPERD Building, Dance Theatre
2-3 p.m. Instrumentalists, Technicians
3-4 p.m. Dancers

For additional dates and information call:
Paramount Parks 1-800-544-5464

PARAMOUNT’S CAROWINDS
Paramount's Carowinds, Midway Music Hall
2-4 p.m. Singers, Specialty Acts, Actors

PARAMOUNT'S KINGS DOMINION
2-4 p.m. Singers, Specialty Acts, Actors

PARAMOUNT’S GREAT AMERICA
PARAMOUNT'S KINGS ISLAND

RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING
Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of talented students. If you qualify, these merit-based scholarships
can help you pay tuition and educational fees. They even pay a flat rate for textbooks and supplies. You can
also receive an allowance of up to $1000 each school year the scholarship is in effect. Find out today if
you qualify. For more information, call Major Mike Hawkins at 892-2165.

3-YEAR ARMY SCHOLARSHIPS. APPLICATIONS BEING ACCEPTED NOW!!!
Interested freshmen should immediately contact the Davidson College Department of Military Studies to obtain an application.
