THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Men's Soccer Tops #10 Tar Heels, Ties #19 Gamecocks in Bid for Top 20 Ranking
By Bruce Balestier

Davidson soccer coach Charlie Slagle said at the start of the season that he’d be happy if his team could
get through the first three games of the season, against #6 Wake Forest, #10 North Carolina, and #19 South Carolina,
with a .500 record, and this week he got his wish to the letter. The Wildcats lost to Wake Forest,
but beat UNC and tied USC to finish the three-game stretch at 1-1-1. This weekend, the team upped its record
to 3-1-1 and claimed the championship at the MDA/Coca-Cola Classic in Richmond with victories over Fairleigh-Dickinson and Richmond.

In the season opener September 5 against Wake in the first round of the Wake Forest Soccer Classic, the Wildcats
were taken out of their game somewhat by the Deacons’ very physical style in a 4-2 loss. Wake was called
for 29 fouls in the match, Davidson just 14. The Deacons drew first blood on a goal by Andrew Chang
early in the first half. In the 25th minute, midfielder Andy Schwab made a great move, and twice had shots
saved by the goalkeeper. Rob Ukrop back-heeled the second rebound into the net to tie the game 1-1. Scottish import
Thomas Finlay headed the ball past Davidson keeper Alex Deegan off a corner kick to put Wake up 2-1 six
minutes before halftime.

By Will Siler

Davidson baseball will have a huge spot to fill on the mound this spring. Andy Paul, who ended with an
11-4 record and a 2.71 ERA last season in his junior campaign, has said goodbye to Davidson baseball and hello
to the Milwaukee Brewers organization. On June 23, Paul signed an exceptional contract with the Brewers, forcing him to forgo
his senior season. The deal is exceptional in that the Brewers are allowing Paul to return to Davidson to finish
his senior year and graduate... and the Brewers will pay for it. Davidson baseball coach Dick Cooke called the Brewers’
willingness to pay for Paul’s education “amazing... I had never heard of an offer like that. They [the franchises] usually
want a kid to finish school on his own time, but Andy made it a priority that he graduate from
Davidson.”

The "Brew Crew" Gives Paul an Offer He Can't Refuse

Recruited by Davidson as an infielder, Paul didn’t pitch for Davidson until his sophomore year. Due to some injuries on
the team during the season, Paul was forced to pitch for the first time since he was sixteen. “I got
thrown out there kind of by default. I was learning on the field... I had some really terrible games,” Paul
admits. He won a few games, however, finishing his sophomore season 4-6 with about a 5.50 ERA.

Paul returned to Davidson last fall ready to pitch. “I really concentrated on pitching for [the first time],” Paul states.
He had a good fall season and was described in the Davidson Baseball brochure as the ace of the pitching
staff. It was supposed to be his big season. But in December of last year, Paul began to get extremely
tired and run down. In the first weeks of January, he was admitted to the hospital and diagnosed as having
diabetes. He lost 35 pounds and his vision changed. “I was a complete mess. I had lost all of my
strength,” Paul remembers. But he was determined to pitch. He told his doctors, “Whatever I have to do so I
can get out there, I'll do, ‘cause I’m going to pitch come February.”

Coach Cooke felt that Paul handled his diabetes extremely well. “It was unfortunate; however, Andy didn’t expect to be treated
differently. He developed a great discipline with [his diabetes],” he said. Paul didn’t miss any starts, but he started the
season weak. He started the first game of the season against UNCC and got pounded, allowing the first four batters
he faced to score. Paul admits that the rockystart gave him doubts. “I thought, ‘Oh this is great. This is
supposed to be my big season.’” But it would be about the only low point of the season for him.
Paul went on to win eleven games, See "Paul" on page 14.

In the second half, the Wildcats drew even when senior Cliff Castelloe ran down a ball on the end line
and fed it to Ukrop for a goal. Matt Olin (brother of Davidson defender John Olin) got the game-winner for
the Deacons. Chang netted an insurance goal in a scramble in front of the goal with two minutes to play.
While Slagle felt that “the game was very disjointed” because of Wake Forest’s numerous fouls, he acknowledged that his team
was able to create good scoring opportunities. “We got our chances in the second half and just didn’t put them
away,” he said.

In the second round of the Classic two days later, the ‘Cats faced North Carolina. The protagonist in the match
was a card-happy referee, who handed out five red cards and generally disrupted the game, but Davidson earned a meaningful
4-3 victory. The Wildcats dominated play early in the match, but a defensive miscue allowed Carolina to score first. After
Davidson failed to clear the ball just outside the box, the Tar Heels’ Ben DiMco controlled the loose ball and
blasted it under the crossbar for a 1-0 lead. Just a little more than three minutes later, though, with 11
minutes left in the half, the ‘Cats’ offensive pressure paid off. Junior forward Ben Hayes, in an extended one-on-one to
the left of the goal, was taken down. See "Soccer" on page 15.

Women's Soccer Storms Queens in Season Opener
By Jen Lake

As the rain proceeded to come down, Davidson’s women’s soccer team proved to be a dark cloud looming over the
heads of its opponent, Queens College. Led by Launa Hankins and freshmen offensive power, the Wildcats won their season opener
5-1 on September 5th. The win is consistent with past seasons, as the ‘Cats have not dropped a game to
Queens in their four years of competition. The team was quite satisfied with the end result, especially considering the onset
of heavy rains midway through the first half. Coach Kevin Hundley commented that “rain of that type can prove to
be an equalizer when it comes to a team’s ability,” as the players discovered at halftime, when they held a
slim, 2-1 lead. Queens took advantage of the weather to play an overly rough and aggressive game versus the finesse
style of the Wildcats.

Newcomer Claudia Lombard opened up the scoring with only two minutes passed, receiving the ball from a play made by
Susan Taylor and Ann Todd. Despite several knocks and bumps, Hankins dominated the scoring, netting the first hat trick of
the season for the team. Her first came unassisted about halfway through the first half. Sarah Cantrell and Todd set
up Hankins’ second goal in the 66th minute of the game. A few minutes later, Hankins padded the lead with
goal number three off a pass from Heather. See "Women's Soccer" on page 14.

Grisez Leads Women Harriers to 2nd at ASU
By Pete Hurtado

The women’s cross-country team began its fall campaign this past Saturday with strong performances from all eight runners at the
Appalachian State Invitational, capturing second place behind Southern Conference rival Appalachian State, and ahead of UNC-Asheville and UNC-Charlotte. With two
freshmen and three sophomores among the top seven runners, Davidson’s future in the Southern Conference looks bright. Freshman sensation Marie
Grisez showed her stuff, finishing fifth overall in an outstanding time of 19:59 for 5k to lead the Wildcats in
her first ever collegiate race. Sophomores Elizabeth Bishop (20:19) and Carolyn Meadows (20:28) ran tough and pulled away from several
UNCA runners late in the race to sweep 6th and 7th places, respectively. Sophomore transfer Laura Jordan (20:58, 12th) and
junior captain Jean DeMoss (21:07, 14th) rounded out the strongest Davidson top five in many years. See "Harriers" on page
15.
