THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINION MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

The Humor of Tony Tunasit: Return to Sender

Did you know that the Teenage Mutant Spastic Colon Popping Ninja Turtles with “Karaoke action” are only $4.47 at Roses? If you had read the Roses flyer in your mailbox, you would have. But I must admit, seeing some Roses literature through the little keyhole is a little more reassuring than seeing the postal workers actually putting the flyer in my box and having this exact conversation:

POSTAL WORKER #1: Gosh, Tony still hasn’t gotten any mail.
POSTAL WORKER #2: Yeah, I know. He didn’t even get the J. Crew Special “Davidson Catalogue for Davidson Students, Townspeople, and motorists who have passed through Davidson once in their life on the way to Mooresville.”
POSTAL WORKER #1: I know, let’s slip him this old Roses flyer from 1982. He’ll never know the difference.
POSTAL WORKERS: Hahahahahahahaha!

Actually, I was quite happy the other day when I opened my mailbox and found a letter that I was expecting from my pal Becky until I realized that the letter was not actually from Becky but from my Ex-Girlfriend Anny. My only question is: (this is addressed to the Post Office, the general public, The Supreme Postmaster General, etc...) WHO GAVE HER MY ADDRESS? Actually, I’m willing to bet that good old Ed 10 MILLION DOLLARS American Clearing House Star Search Alpo Sweepstakes McMahon gave her my address. And by the way, who gave him my address?

Ex-girlfriends are probably all very nice people who go out a lot, play sports, talk on the phone, watch “Baywatch,” play Bingo, and use F.B.I. Manhunt Techniques to look for your address. Most guys on my hall are friends with their girlfriends and all but don’t seem to ever want to get letters from them. The reason we don’t really want to get letters from our ex-girlfriends is because we see subliminal scary messages hidden in the actual content of the letter. Let me show you how a typical letter from an Ex looks to the typical guy:

Dear Tony, [We see: Oh my dearest Tony]
So, how is college life? [So, how is life without me?]
I’ve heard that Davidson is very difficult, so I hope you are handling the work okay. [So, how is life without me?]
Is the social life exciting? [So, how is life without me?]
I’m sure it is. [You miss me, don’t you?]
SPHS isn’t the same. [The halls are empty without you.]
I tried calling you this summer. [I really, really, really want to get back together again.]
I had a pretty cool summer. [I had this really neat dream once that we were on some deserted, tropical island off Aruba.]
Too bad it’s over. [Too bad I woke up.]
Well, I just wanted to let you know that I’ve been thinking about you. [AAAAARGH!]
I hope you are enjoying yourself. [Well, I just wanted to let you know that I’ve been thinking about you.]
Don’t get stressed. [I’ll be waiting.]
Take care. [Marry me.]
— Love, [We’ll have beautiful children.]
Anny

Are guys reading into this too much? Are we being just a little bit too paranoid? Nah. But I really am wondering what to do about the Ex-girlfriend dilemma. I really don’t know what to do about this since I don’t want to be...an insincere butthead and not write to her; but then again I don’t want to keep correspondence with her until I’m 87 (when I retire in Aruba). Perhaps I’m just getting a little too worked up over nothing. I guess I just won’t worry about it and I’ll write to her later. But now I’m gonna pick up the NEW Optimus Prime Transformer at Roses, on sale for only $21.99. While supplies last of course.

Curran Continued from page 7

ulty alike. During this time members of the university community began to try to discuss and understand the problems they faced as a diverse, and sometimes divided, racial and cultural community. As members of a liberal arts college community, we at Davidson would fall short of our educational goals and our obligations if we did not try to come to understand and change the racial prejudices that have divided colleges and cities across this country. One last comment: surprising that you are asking us to comment on the “appropriateness of the College hiring Lee to speak.” In his movies, especially in Do the Right Thing, Spike Lee makes us rethink our views on race and invites each one of us to examine for ourselves the question “What is the right thing to do?” How many public figures can you say that of today? If his visit is controversial, all the better. As the philosopher John Stuart Mill says, “Only through diversity of opinions is there, in the existing state of human intellect, a chance of fair play to all sides of the truth.”

Angela Curran
Philosophy Department

Tom Norwood, III

At first, I was going to write about some meaningless thing I like such as Pox the fryer, but last year he was my professor for Finite Math. First, let me tell you that I'm terrible with math. I always have been, and I always will be. So, when I signed up for Finite, a math for non-majors, I was horrified. I considered taking the class pass-fail, but Dr. Klein talked me out of it. He told me that I would have no problem with the class if I did my assignments. So, I went to class and kept up with my work. His lectures were usually clear, but he saw everyone that came to see him outside of class. Klein is currently serving as the Interim Dean of the Faculty. He didn’t want to make the class impossible; he simply wanted us to leave his class with more knowledge than we came in with. I got a B in the class, and I owe my success to his teaching skill. Dr. Klein was named Professor of the Year in the state of North Carolina last year, and, for one, I know why. You will not find a finer man at Davidson College, and I encourage anyone who is able to take one of his classes.

Continued from page 8

To that end, I think it’s a shame to fear the prospect of controversy, for it is a double-edged sword. While controversy shocks, it also educates and encourages opinion-making. Each individual will bring a unique viewpoint to Love Auditorium, and each individual will leave with different opinions about what Spike Lee will have said. I think that what the Speaker’s Committee is encouraging is not indoctrination, but responsible opinion-making. Spike Lee is neither the Messiah nor the Anti-Christ, just a man with a viewpoint that is timely and deserving of consideration. Some people will agree with him, and others will not. I intend to go see Spike Lee and to form an opinion about his message after I have heard it. I think it would be a mistake for anyone to go to the talk with preconceived notions about what Spike Lee ought or ought not to say. I think the best thing any of us can do is to listen, and afterwards to articulate informed opinions about whether or not we agree.

Wildley Continued from page 7

and the candidacy of George Bush but also reflects unfavorably on the character and integrity of Mr. Gullan.

Sincerely,
Ween Lee ‘94 and Susan E. Wildley ‘94