2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

Alcohol Enforcement Committee Clarifies Patterson Court Houses' Responsibilities

By Tom Price

This past Monday, the Alcohol Enforcement Committee sent a memorandum to Patterson Court houses clarifying the houses’ roles in enforcing the College’s new alcohol policy. The issue arose after the Kappa Alpha Order was charged with an alcohol violation for failing to cooperate with alcohol monitors in their effort to remove alcohol from the house after the 2:00 a.m. deadline on a weekend night. Representatives of the KA house said in their defense that they believed it was the sole responsibility of the monitors to make sure all alcohol was removed.

In a letter to KA, Dean Terry explained the position of the AEC: “While we believe the monitors should have carded individuals who were violating the policy, we believe it is the house’s responsibility to aid them in that endeavor.” KA was given only a warning for the offense because of the confusion over the policy.

Dean Terry said that this clarification constituted “nothing radical” and that the AEC simply wants Patterson Court Houses to aid monitors in enforcing the alcohol policy. As long as a House cooperates with the monitors, he explained, the House itself should not be charged with an alcohol violation. He also said, “We can’t expect the president or other officers to be present at every event or for the whole event, but there should be a person designated to be in charge who can assist the monitors and take responsibility for the order of the house.” Dean Terry also said that the monitors will be briefed on the role of houses in enforcing the policy.

In the letter sent to Patterson Court Houses, the AEC said, “The committee will be addressing these issues with the monitors, for while we believe the houses have the responsibility for cooperating and assisting, the monitors are being paid to carry the majority of the enforcement burden.”

CCRL Studies Quality of Life at Davidson
Council Responsible for Creation of New Alcohol Policy

By Leigh Rawdon

Many Davidson students may not realize that the college administration continually seeks student input about issues that affect campus social life. In 1976, Davidson established the Council on Campus and Religious Life to advise the President and the Dean of Students concerning possible problems and potential improvements.

Last spring, the CCRL’s most significant effort involved the creation of the new alcohol policy. The council worked diligently to install a policy that both followed North Carolina state law and satisfied Davidson students. The Student Government’s ad-hoc committee and the Patterson Court Council contributed additional student suggestions, but the CCRL acted as the actual editors of the policy. The council will evaluate the new alcohol policy after spring break.

The current issue addressed by the CCRL involves the establishment of guidelines for the Patterson Court Council and individual houses. These guidelines could set standards for cleanliness and social management, including possible leadership training for house officers. These standards would help define the role of the Patterson Court Council and help houses understand general Court policies.

Sophomore Joanna Boyd said that another subject that the CCRL has discussed is the insufficient number of social options on campus. The Council considered increasing publicity of Union activities and possibly adding a pool table or ping pong table to the Outpost. Boyd also noted that changes in the meal plan and the cafe hours were brought to the council’s attention.

A future assignment for a subcommittee of the CCRL will be to evaluate whether or not SAE will be allowed on campus next year. Chairman Dean Terry stated that the CCRL, “could possibly be a strong force for a new college Union.” According to Terry, the council addresses anything that might affect the quality of social life at Davidson. This includes any religious aspect since the chaplain serves as an ex-officio member and may use the CCRL to advance his agenda.consists of eight elected and appointed students, the presidents of the SGA, Reach Out, the Union Board, and the PCC. In addition to the student representatives, there are nine faculty and administration members. Terry said, "the council is valuable because it includes input from three elements of campus: faculty, students, and administration." Elections and appointments occur in the spring semester for any student interested in serving on the CCRL.

Christmas Continued from page 3

Christmas Tree at Tinkham’s Curiosity Shop, food tasting at Main Street Books, a display of Christmas photos at the Mecklenburg Gazette, and Yvonne Kendall and the Davidson Renaissance Group at the Christa Faut Gallery. For additional information and times see the events calendar on page 15. The celebration will culminate on Saturday at 1:00 p.m. with the 10th annual North Mecklenburg Christmas parade.

The festival was organized by the Downtown Davidson Organization. Chairperson Irene Blackwell, owner of The Village Store, explained that the non-profit group consists of representatives from Main Street businesses and the College, as well as townspeople, whose goal is to promote downtown and solicit business to make it an active, profitable area. The DDO coordinated individual store’s events and invited other non-profit organizations, such as The Lion’s Club, Davidson PTA, Habitat for Humanity, and WDAYV, to take part in the celebration. They also convinced businesses, such as local banks and Duke Power, to sponsor carriage rides and other events. Blackwell stressed that the week’s activities were not only to promote business, but to further the spirit of Christmas as well. As Ere Harben, owner of Anna’s Antiques put it, “It’s more of a homey, family atmosphere. It’s like Christmas should be.”

Campus Continued from page 1

nitely gotten into the spirit. The parents of senior sweeper Craig Omli, whom he described as “crazy soccer fans,” made sweatshirts which spell GO DAVIDSON for all the team mothers when they stand together in the bleachers. Professors have also rallied around the Wildcats, traveling to away games and accommodating the students’ interest in the games on Friday. Dr. Tony Abbott postponed his Friday afternoon classes tomorrow due to the tournament, commenting, “It seems only fair to rearrange our classes in light of this historic event.”

Dean of Students Will Terry is excited about what athletic success will mean to the college as a whole. “I think it proves that a school like Davidson can do this kind of thing with style,” said Terry. “It will help other sports in that it gives us a high profile.” He continued, “Such success ought to help general student recruiting as well as sports recruiting” because of name recognition.

Not since the 1960s, when the basketball team was in its heyday, has Davidson enjoyed championship-caliber sports at the Division I level. Students at colleges like Davidson often feel that they must sacrifice the excitement of big-time athletics for the advantages of a small liberal arts college. Coach Slagle and his heroic team have proven otherwise. Win or lose, the soccer team has provided an unforgettable experience which has brought out the best in its players and fans and undoubtedly will go down in Davidson history.

PERFECTION-CONNECTION OFFICE SERVICES
We Type Resumes, Theses & Term Papers. Pick-Up & Delivery Available. 30 Years Combined Experience. Call Judy & Ruth Wilson (664-9346)

The Toughest Job You'll Ever Love!
1993-94 Academic Year RA Applications
Interested Students Who Are Leaving For The Spring Must Apply Now At RLO x2188 (Regular Applications Will Be Available January 13, 1993)
You must have one interview before the end of Finals!