THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

Hurricane Andrew Ravages Louisiana
Davidson Volunteers Witness First Hand the Storm's Damage
By Gigi Cooke

On Wednesday morning, September 2, 1992, a convoy of seven college vehicles and a 48' tractor trailer loaded with relief
supplies, building materials, and our crew of twelve college employees, left for Morgan City, Louisiana. Prepared to offer skilled help
to the area of Louisiana which suffered the most severe damage from Hurricane Andrew, our group of “do-gooders” represented the
combined efforts of the Davidson Community toward hurricane relief.

We reached Morgan City early Thursday evening and quickly filled the halls of Atkinson Memorial Presbyterian Church with the relief
supplies donated by the members of our community. An early encounter with our first hurricane victim—a young man traveling with
his wife and small children who had lost everything in the storm except his microwave and TV, which he sold
to pay for their trip north—prepared us for more widespread devastation than our initial and quick observations suggested. Power had
just been restored, and the roads and many of the yards had been cleared from the fallen trees. A closer
look at the area revealed a severely depressed city with far-reaching and scattered damage.

Morgan City and the surrounding areas of St. Mary’s Parish are fully integrated. “Neighborhoods” do not exist in the full
sense of the word down here... we all learned rather quickly that the people here generally do not know or
help their neighbors. The coming together of a community that often follows a disaster did not exist—poverty and the stress
of meeting basic needs often prevent that communication regardless of the common hurricane experience. Well-manicured homes often stood next to
ruined or damaged low-rent housing, and yet our group from North Carolina extended the first offering of help. So... concentrating
our efforts on the elderly, the handicapped, single women with small children, and generally those unable to help themselves, we
spread our relief efforts to citizens of Morgan City, Amelia, Bayou Vista, Franklin, and Patterson.

Collins was a regular Daddy Warbucks adopting these people as his own and finding a way to give them a
better place to live. After hold-ups with the Red Cross gave us a slower start than anticipated, we began investigating
the need in the area on our own. Certain members of the church either needed assistance or recommended others for
help, the Council On The Aging made several referrals, and eventually even the Red Cross spread knowledge of our efforts.
Many of the referrals handed our way through the church and the Red Cross did not require our immediate help.
We gave highest priority to “drying in” those people without a roof overhead. Many times the looks of a house
from the outside hid the true extent of the interior damage. Heavy winds and rains exaggerated damage accumulated over years
of poor conditions of the houses before the storm. Hurricane Andrew finished what poverty had started, and yet these needy
people did not want to admit that they needed help. On several occasions we left bags of groceries at the
door, or gave extra supplies to an accepting family so that they could distribute those goods to other family members
in need. The people we encountered were not “needy and greedy” but rather unaccustomed to offerings of help and generally
concerned that someone else may be worse off.

Adrenalin—or Mr. Collins’s adrenalin—gave us a twenty-hour workday on our first full day in Morgan City. Separate crews repaired two
roofs in Morgan City and shoveled the fallen ceiling out of the rooms where the water leaked in and caved
in the tiles. Ray Thrower and I spent the afternoon exploring southern Louisiana and...

Boby Princeton Review! We know you guys like to party a lot. But still, is anybody minding the store? You
failed to notice an important change in the LSAT. The question format that you call Triple True/False, which used to
appear in all sections of the LSAT, has not appeared on the LSAT since February 1991. But you still prep
your students to...“Crack” this obsolete question format. That’s wasted cracking, guys. May we suggest that you briefly disregard your margaritas,
and update your LSAT course materials? We know it's work, but somebody’s gotta do it. For information on contemporary LSAT
prep, call: 333-PREP or 333-7737.

KAPLAN
The answer to the test question.

Particularly the remote fishing villages of Dulac and Cocodrie. Devastation to homes in the deep bayou area was severe. The
winds and especially the rising tides shredded trailer homes and tore houses from the foundations. We found very few people
in this southern tip of the state. I guess these people just left what little they had before the storm.
That evening we worked under lights powered by our own generators in Franklin and inadvertently drew much attention to our
crew. As we repaired the roof, mopped the kitchen floor, unclogged the drain, and left food for Mrs. Porter, many
curious neighbors stopped to question why we had come into a predominantly black area to offer our help. We received
similar feedback from others... genuine appreciation for our efforts combined with perfect wonder as to our motivation to help.

Saturday afternoon work took us to Franklin, a small community about 35 miles west of Morgan City. Mildred and Morris
Madison, an elderly couple in poor health who had stayed during the storm for lack of money to buy enough
gas to leave, captured our hearts and our curiosity about the way of life for so many people in the
area. The hurricane had swept away most of the roof of their home, in which Mildred had spent her entire
life. After decades of disrepair and several soakings from rains which followed the storm, the interior preserved little of the
careful attention apparently given to the two-bedroom house at one time. The wooden floors, which Mildred spoke of waxing weekly
as a child, were wet and rotted from the ceiling collapsing, and most of the furniture had mildewed from the
dampness and the heat. Even as we re-built the roof, a storm rolled in and soaked their house for the
fourth time in one week. We spent a day and a half re-building the roof and air-conditioning one room of
the house. The gratitude of Mildred and Morris was overwhelming... while Morris took hints from the crew on how to
continue minor repairs, Mildred told us over and over that “this is better than Christmas” and she cried when she
saw the new bed and bed-frame donated by a member of the church in Morgan City.

In almost every case our crew gave the people we helped the incentive to start helping themselves. So many people
who were down and too overwhelmed by the damage to even clear out a space in their house to sit,
came to life again once we offered our support. This was especially true of Josephine Ruffin on Birch Street. Easily
the worst looking house from the outside, the condition of this house improved little on the inside. A tree had
fallen at the front door and had broken the electric meter and crushed her car. Inside, the ceiling had collapsed
and had remained damp and rotting in an ankle-deep pile covering the floor for more than a week. Our crew
removed the tree from the porch and car, restored electricity, repaired the roof, and shoveled out the ceiling and other
debris from the inside of her home. By the following morning Mrs. Ruffin had cleaned the entire house and was
as proud of her home as a new homeowner might be... and even her “compact car” as she described it
could not.

See "Andrew" on page 5.

INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
BOSTON UNIVERSITY

LEARN HOW THE WORLD WORKS

City/State/Zip:
Phone: ( )
University:
Fall [ ] Spring [ ] Summer [ ]

Internship Programs
Language Programs

Return to:
Boston University
Division of International Programs
232 Bay State Road, Box Q, Boston, MA 02215
or call (617) 353-9888
