THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

Life Continued from page 1

Disorders that originate in the marrow, such as leukemia (an often fatal form of cancer), can now be cured with
a transplant. If anyone thinks they can find an easier method of searching and testing for potential miracles, I’ll come
to Chambers naked for a week. (No, I don’t mean that as a threat.)

Perhaps some of you are still confused. Let me provide a quick history of our efforts. In the past three
years, Project Life has raised $80,000 and registered close to 800 students, faculty, and staff in the National Bone Marrow
Registry. The people we’ve registered at Davidson add their names to a growing list of thousands upon thousands around the
country who hope one day to donate their marrow for the renewed life of another.

Because of the limited number of people nationwide on the Registry today, the odds of those needing a match actually
getting one is about one-in-twenty thousand. The physical commitment for the donor is minor—the removal of 2% of the body’s
marrow, under a form of anesthesia. The bone marrow replenishes itself quickly, and the emotional reward is indescribable. If you
are unsure and have specific questions about the procedure, please come by on the day of the drive and we’ll
make sure to ease any of your concerns.

Most everyone knows the movie “Stand by Me,” right? It was that good, thoughtful flick about young boys growing up
in tough circumstances and struggling together to beat obstacles placed in their life path. It emphasized the bonds of friendship
through the spirit of determination. To better demonstrate and emphasize the dire need for bone marrow donors, allow me to
offer my own personal variation of this theme.

Four years ago, I was thrust into an unlikely brotherhood of sorts with three other young guys. The youngest was
Jason, an introspective and bright twelve-year-old who loved Nintendo Game Boy. There was a second Jason (Walls), who like me
possessed a passion for basketball and a zest for life in all its many forms. Finally, there was Jack, a
fellow church member of mine, who had one of the most unique senses of humor I’ve ever experienced. All four
of us had cancers of the blood system. All four of us feared for our lives, and ultimately, all of
us needed a bone marrow transplant to live.

Miraculously, my youngest sister Lee was a perfect bone marrow match. Sadly, the other three were forced to turn to
the limited odds of the National Registry. While I was being healed, I had the depressing experience of watching my
three friends wait to see if they had received a match. The months of chemotherapy and radiation continued for them,
sustaining life as long as possible. Young Jason succumbed first; his death coincided with my triumphant return from having a
transplant in Minnesota. The next Spring, I flew back to Minnesota for a healthy checkup. On the same trip, Jack
went to attempt a transplant with only a partially-matched donor. While at camp that summer as a counselor, I got
word that he had died.

And then there was Jason Walls. I’ll never forget the paradox of last Christmas vacation. It was the first happy
and healthy holiday I had experienced in two winters, but Jason appeared to be losing the battle against time as
he waited for a donor. I’ll likely never forget the look in his eyes as he grabbed my hand one
evening and grinned upwards at me, “You’re a lucky guy.” On Christmas Day, my friend died at the age of
eighteen.

I am a lucky guy. I will live a full and happy life due to my transplant. Please help us
to ensure that...others do too... See you Wednesday.

Qualls Continued from page 1

During the opening ceremony, the other delegations yelled, “We love you! Welcome home!” The “ability to recognize a home” carries
Qualls around the world. Her tour of “The Last Word” will never be the last word, from her or from
other African-Americans. The poems she read and statements she made act as proof that discovering and reveling in heritages, our
own and others, will continue, and it will build worldwide understanding.

202 South Main Street Davidson 896-8700

Are You Searching for Great Christmas Presents for your Family & Friends? Come Discover Our Jewelry & Gifts at Tinkham’s
PRICED SO YOU CAN STILL GET HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS!

Tinkham's Curiosity Shop
Tuesday-Friday 10-4
Saturday 10-3

Panel Continued from page 6

which issues are most important to the American public. These “leaders” were selected from a Who’s Who list and contained
a cross-section of racial, ethnic, and socio-economic groups. Holsti also found a gap in the importance of economic issues. Among
the “leaders” polled, only 10% listed it as a major concern. In the general public, however, 56% believe the economy
is a major concern. Also from his research, he has found that foreign policy is not among the most salient
issues for most in this country.

South Carolina’s Rosati described a “crisis of governance” in which our government has developed a system of “Two Presidencies.” He
described a theory which holds that the President has become largely ineffectual in domestic policy, while gathering power in foreign
policy making. This distortion of powers, Rosati claimed, will lead to great difficulty in designing foreign policy in the future.
The key hope, Rosati believes, is Presidential leadership. He said this leadership must include the ability to construct political coalitions
and to have a vision of a new world order. On the basis of Clinton’s successful campaign, Rosati is optimistic
about the potential of the President-Elect in managing foreign policy.

The last speaker, Johnson from the University of Georgia, spoke on the Central Intelligence Agency and its role in the
new world order. He said during the Cold War between 60% and 70% of its resources were spent on monitoring
the Soviet Union. He outlined new threats which will continue to face the United States in the future.

Terry Continued from page 1

ously.” It is unfortunate that all Americans cannot meet Presidential contenders in friendly circumstances as opposed to the cold airwaves
of national television. Renaissance Weekend provided Dean Terry with such an opportunity. “Getting to know him over the past three
years influenced my vote and my pocketbook as well,” he said. No matter where the Presidency takes him, two things
are certain: Bill Clinton will always be a “Renaissance Man,” and he will always have a friend at Davidson.

GRAND OPENING
KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD
"Come Taste The Best Show In Town"

KOBE brings to Cornelius the heritage of a remarkable past - the distinguished cooking from centuries-old Japan in a relaxing
traditional setting. Authentic TEPPAN-YAKI, the art of Oriental Cuisine, is featured. Whatever your taste choice, each morsel is a gastronomical
delight. Equally important is its skillful presentation for your visual appetite. May you enjoy the taste of Japan.

Wet Bar & Sushi Bar in Lounge (Sushi Bar Closed Mondays)
Lunch 11:30am - 2:00pm (No lunch on Saturday)
Dinner Sun. - Thur. 5 - 10pm
Fri- Sat 5-11pm
I-77 Exit 28 Behind Norman Crossing
20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr. Cornelius, NC 704-896-7778

Highway 73
Norman Crossing

20% off with ID thru Christmas

Lake Norman & Davidson Tees!
Screen Printing For Organizations
Tees! T-Shirts, Sweatshirts & More
Hwy 73, Cornelius - 892-3990 (Near Beauregard’s & Entrance to Peninsula Club)
Lakeshore MarketPlace
Tues.-Fri. 10-5:30, Sat. 12-5
