‘THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992

From the Archives: Towner Blackstock
Bricks: Building Davidson College From 1835 to 1929

There are bricks all over this campus. Not all of them are in the buildings or walkways, either. There is a long history of construction and reconstruction at Davidson, and today the remnants rest all around us.

The first bricks at Davidson were made on Major John Caldwell’s plantation during the summer of 1835. The contract stated that 250,000 would be delivered. Eight buildings in all were put up, three being dorms, two houses for faculty, a steward’s hall (for the more or less Dean of Students), and the obligatory Presbyterian chapel. Today, only Oak and Elm dormitories still stand, but the west foundation wall of Steward’s Hall, demolished in 1909, can be seen today next to the Guest House. All were standing by spring 1836, and two more dorms were built in front of the President’s home the next year.

Don’t think any of this was glamorous. A woman from Chapel Hill commented as late as 1871 that “a very singular want of taste is the most striking feature in the buildings and grounds... Everything looks jumbled and dingy.” The President’s home, now quite a mansion in its own right, then measured 18 feet by 18 feet, and faced what we know as Main Street, which then was nothing but a muddy strip. The other faculty home, called Tammany, stood until 1901 between Elm and Phi Hall, which came in 1849 along with Eumenean Hall. The chapel was located right where Cunningham is today, and like the other structures, had a roof of tin. Remodeled as Shearer Hall in 1901, it was torn down in 1960.

Two buildings stood across the street from the college. First, the Helper Hotel went up in 1848 as an inn for travelers. The college did not acquire it until 1946. The Grey House, now the office of College Relations, was constructed in 1850 as a home and a store by the Henderson family. Although it could never be proved, the Trustees always suspected that alcohol was sold to students in that old house, violating the college charter banning the sale of alcoholic beverages for a two-mile radius around campus. By 1859 the building became faculty housing, putting to rest the accusations.

Only one more structure went up before the Civil War, and that was the great Chambers Building, built between 1857 and 1860. All of the brick was made on campus from local clay. At the time, Chambers was the greatest collegiate building in all America, and still today is well known as a monument and a landmark. One architectural historian in 1944 called it “one of the stateliest college buildings in the South, if not the entire nation.” Amazingly, plans called for an even larger structure eventually, with the wings expanding out, rearward, and around to form a huge courtyard with a garden and a laundry, and containing five hundred dorm rooms. Already the two dorms in front of the President’s house had been disassembled, but plans apparently would have called for the destruction of every other building on campus except for the old chapel. Perhaps fortunately, the Civil War wiped out any ideas they had right along with the entire college endowment. Yet with all the grandiose talk, Chambers had no inside toilets until 1910, and students instead relied on outhouses behind it.

After the War, a large semi-circular drive was spread out in front of Chambers, following basically what is the paved road in front of New Chambers today. Then, though, it was unpaved and formed a giant “D”, and was called that until the middle of this century. Along this curve, right between the old chapel and Chambers and facing west, Morrison Hall was erected in 1890. The upstairs went to the YMCA, and the first floor was used as a gym. At the other end of the drive, standing where Cunningham Church (DCPC) is today, was the curious first DCPC church building. Some described it as an “eyesore” in later years, and no one could argue that it certainly looked very different from everything else on campus. Attempts to describe the odd little structure would be in vain, so it must suffice to say it hardly fit the stately old campus.

A rash of construction came with the new century, with ten dorms going up in ten years. The original Martin Chemical Laboratory had been built from 1899 until 1901, placed roughly where Dana and the Grey Union are now. Rumple in 1903, on...the site of our Little, Watts in 1906, and Georgia in 1909, placed in front of today’s Belk, all made up the Dormitory Row. The Carnegie Library, now the Guest House, went up in 1910 with the demolition of the old Stewards Hall. Interestingly, the new building was built with pieces of the old, just as Shearer had been made out of the old chapel and Tammany Hall. Shearer was not attractive, though, as it was oddly stuccoed over the traditional brick. The student body had grown from 147 in 1902 to 336 in 1911-12. Great plans were drawn up in 1915 for a great campus revitalization, pushing the amazing growth of Davidson to new heights. Alumni Gym was built directly behind Chambers behind the site of Little Library in 1917, and plans called for it with four other buildings including two lecture halls, a YMCA/Social building, and a “Physical Laboratory” to form a quadrangle behind Chambers. Two dorms were to be built east of Georgia. These were the only structures of the plan to be realized, as they were about to be sorely needed. A fire destroyed Old Chambers on the fateful day of November 28, 1921. With it went a quarter of the college dorm rooms, the library and museum collection, but thankfully no lives. Responding quickly, two more wood barracks (adding to the two put up in 1920) were thrown up as a temporary measure (although they remained until 1945) and the construction of East, renamed Cannon in 1957, and West Dorm, renamed Sentelle in 1971, promptly ensued. Luck would have it that Watts burned in 1923, and subsequently had to be rebuilt on the same site. The old walls of Chambers were torn down and the old brick sold off in 1922. In 1924, the granite foundations came up and were used in several locations. The retaining wall that runs along the campus side of Main Street near Cunningham uses much of that granite. And, if you keep your eyes open, you’ll notice similar chunks of rock outside of New Chambers and other structures around campus. The great columns of Old Chambers remained up until the new building was almost completed in 1929, and then they were razed. The 900 Room in the Grey Union has some dramatic pictures of the event on the far wall. With the addition of New Chambers, Davidson College literally was recast, quite fulfilling the predictions of many, including the Charlotte Observer: “Davidson College has been doing business in a building that long since became inadequate to the demands of a modern institution... The Observer is anticipating nothing short of a reconstructed Davidson...” And so it was. With the new hub, Davidson began a sharp transformation over the next forty years to become a formidable campus and institution, making moves and constructions bigger, though certainly no more bold, than the changes of the last eighty years. Strangely, though, with all of the change, we never escape the past. Walk through the campus and you’ll notice reminders like a strange strip of brick just under the gravel path by Elm Row, the odd granite wall next to the Guest House, piles of brick near the Post Office, the retaining wall on Main Street, the patches of discolored grass in front of Chambers, and the bits of broken brick strewn about Eu and Phi Halls. There are bricks all over this campus. References used in the writing of this article include, as always, Beaty’s A History Of Davidson College, Shaw’s Davidson College, and the South’s Foremost College Archives. All are located in the library, so get over there and check them out before the rush begins. Thanks to College Archivist Dr. C.G. Davidson and his assistant Frances Redmond, who are truly wonderful people. Drop in and visit them sometime.

How Smart Are You? Come find out at the COLLEGE BOWL 1-on-1 Championship! In the 900 Room:
Monday, April 6th 7-8:30
Tuesday, April 7th 7-9:00
Monday, April 13th 7-9:00
Tuesday, April 14th 7-9:00

If you would like to be a contestant, sign up in the Union Pit.

Did You Notice This Issue is Only Twelve Pages? Do you know why it is only twelve pages? Then Get Off Your Bum and Write for us!

AND INTRODUCING Your Sandal Headquarters NEW SHIPMENT - ALL SIZES AND COLORS AVAILABLE Josef Seibel Sandals 25% OFF “THE MOST COMFORTABLE SANDAL ON THE MARKET!" Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn