12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

‘Cats Advance to Second Round
By Chris Hood

After surviving a shaky first quarter, Davidson’s football squad tightened defensively and scored three second-half touchdowns to drop Bridgewater (Va.),
28-13. With the road victory, the Wildcats finished the season at 5-5 and achieved their goal of bettering last year’s
4-5 mark.

The Eagles opened the contest with a touchdown when Ronnie Howard capped a 10-play, 69-yard drive with a four-yard run.
Howard finished the game with 122 yards on the ground. Richard Howell hit Bruce Bannister for an eight-yard touchdown strike
on the following drive, evening the score at seven. Bridgewater marched back, though, and took a 10-7 lead when Steve
Lowe hit a 21-yard field goal. Neither team scored in the second quarter, so the Eagles took the advantage at
the half.

Davidson went ahead for the first time in the contest early in the third quarter, as Bannister scored on a
five-yard run; he picked up 102 yards rushing Saturday. Though Bridgewater continued to move the ball consistently, it could manage
no more than a fourth-quarter field goal to close to within a point, 14-13. The ‘Cats answered the Eagles’ score
with a pair of touchdowns in the final stanza. Howell scampered 36 yards, and Mike Wright, who picked up 54
rushing yards in the game, ran three for the game’s final score to give Davidson its 15-point lead.

Football Hits .500 Mark With Victory Over Bridgewater

Davidson’s defense gave up 304 rushing yards but stiffened when it needed to all afternoon. The ‘Cats also forced a
pair of interceptions from the Eagles, who completed only three of 16 passes Saturday. Meanwhile, Howell completed nine of 16
for 101 yards and the touchdown; he added 82 rushing yards. Dan Lamar led the ‘Cats with 43 receiving yards
on three receptions.

After starting the season 1-4, Davidson rolled back to capture four of its final five contests. The ‘Cats stuffed Methodist
and Charleston Southern before falling to Hampden-Sydney; Davidson entered Saturday’s action with the confidence from a 10-3 win over Centre
College.

Field Hockey Takes Third Consecutive Deep South Title
By Jennifer Roos

The field hockey team ended its season last Sunday in Salisbury by winning the Deep South Tournament for the third
consecutive year. The ‘Cats beat fifth-seeded Pfeiffer in the semifinals and then

Photos by Casey Rogers
Defender Cliff Castelloe battles UNCC's Chan Roush (Top). Alex Deegan takes a goal kick in the 'Cats dramatic 4-3 victory
Sunday (Bottom).

Men's X-C Closes Out Season With Personal Bests at NCAA Regional
By Pete Hurtado

The men’s cross-country team closed out its fine season with clutch efforts from all five runners in placing 28th of
35 teams at the NCAA Region III Championships at Furman. “This was the best total team effort at the regional
championships in my seven years at Davidson,” claimed coach Gary Andrew. All five Davidson harriers ran personal-best times over the
10k course.

Senior David Kerns led the way for the Wildcats with a phenomenal, career-best time of 32:48, placing 105th. Kerns began
strong and held the grueling pace to rank among Davidson’s best 10k runners ever. Kerns’ time is also the fastest
by a Davidson harrier since 1983. Senior captain Ian Stewart ended his strong career with a fine time of 33:34
(138th). Ian’s strong leadership this season was evident.

See "Men's X-C” on page 11

Women Harriers at NCAA Region III Meet
By Pete Hurtado

The women’s cross-country team, in its first season under Coach Beth Manson, wound up its season at the NCAA Region
III Championships at Furman University.Last Saturday with solid performances from all five runners. “Everyone ran fantastically,” said captain Jean DeMoss.
Beset by injuries, the modified squad ran well. Due to an error by the officials, final team scores were not
available. Davidson was led by sophomore Elizabeth Bishop, who ran a 19:22 (134th) for the 5k course, almost two minutes
faster than her time last fall. Bishop saved her best for last.

See "Harriers" on page 11

Davidson beat second-seeded Davis & Elkins in the final. As the first seed, the ‘Cats earned a bye in the
first round and faced Pfeiffer in the second round. Davidson had won 7-0 in the two teams’ previous meeting this
season, and the Cats were able to beat them again, 9-0. Senior Monique Dockter scored the first two goals early
in the first half and set the tone for the rest of the game. Dockter’s goals were followed by ones
from Missy Potts, Suzanne Hardesty, and Simone Plaisance. In the second half, freshman Holly Kledis tallied a hat trick in
only 30 minutes of action. Freshman Nicole Ficeto added a goal to complete the scoring. In the final against Davis
& Elkins, the Wildcats again took the lead early in the game. Dockter again led off the scoring and was
immediately followed up by Jacquelin Ukrop. Those two goals would be the only two of the game for the ‘Cats,
though they outshot D&E 40-3. Six Wildcats were named to the All-Tournament team: Dockter, Ukrop, Plaisance, Jennifer Roos, Hardesty, and
Emily Coleman. In addition, five Davidson players will represent the Deep South in the Southeast Tournament in Washington, D.C.: Jenny
Plowright, Erin Lang, Mary Ferguson, Kledis, and Ukrop. “Beating D&E showed how much confidence we had due to our past
experience and how we really rose above them on and off the field,” said coach Betsy Pryor. “Also, we stuck
to our style of play; that was a key to our success all season long, and the fact that we
could do that showed our character.”

See "Hockey" on page 11

Augustin Injured as Volleyball Falls to Appalachian State
By Janet Delery

The Davidson volleyball team (13-20, 3-4) was defeated by Appalachian State 3-15, 2-15, 9-15 in a Southern Conference match last
Wednesday night. The Wildcats came out tense in the first game and were unable to establish a rhythm or gain
momentum during the match. Appalachian State effectively used their powerful offense to break Davidson’s serve and prevent the Wildcats from
scoring several points in a row. Freshman Michele Augustin paced the Wildcats on offense and defense during the match, leading
the team with 10 kills and 18 digs. Junior Katherine Anderson also recorded a career-high 15 digs in addition to
her five kills. Junior Jennifer Guise played a strong match off the bench, providing a forceful block on the net
and connecting with the Wildcat hitters for nine assists. Sophomore Lorie Logan also contributed 17 assists from the setter position.
Captain Jennie Wagner cited the large, enthusiastic crowd as a bright spot for the Wildcats on the evening and said,
“We had great fan support. Even though it was a tough match, the fans remained supportive throughout the match.” The
team, plagued by injuries all season, suffered another loss when it learned Thursday that Michele Augustin had torn cartilage in
her knee during the Appalachian State match and would be lost for the remainder of the season. Catherine Milligan, a
senior outside hitter, will replace Augustin.

See "Volleyball" on page 11
