THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992 15

Soccer Prepares for Season, NCAA Tourney

By Bruce Balestier

If a single scene from Davidson’s 1991 men’s soccer season could be frozen in time, it would be this one:
the sight of senior All-America forward Rob Ukrop falling to the turf with a broken leg in an early-season game
against North Carolina. Down with Ukrop, who the year before had tallied 22 goals and 12 assists to finish third
in the country in scoring, went the great majority of the team’s scoring punch. Some two months later, the Wildcats’
season ground to a halt fittingly, in a 1-0 upset loss to UNC-Asheville in the first round of the Big
South Conference Tournament. Davidson played competitive games with virtually every team on its schedule, but finished 8-10-2 because it simply
could not score enough goals.

In 20 games, the ‘Cats scored just 20 goals, and shot the ball nearly 100 fewer times than the year
before. Ukrop’s absence forced Davidson coach Charlie Slagle to look for consistent goal-scoring from players who simply were not ready
to be primary scorers. Ben Hayes, a converted defender, led the team with six goals, but no one else scored
more than two.

The only fortunate thing about Ukrop’s injury was the timing of it. Because it occurred so early in the season,
NCAA rules allowed Ukrop to redshirt the year and return this year, to complete his eligibility. Ukrop’s return, along with
that of an experienced senior class that is nine players strong, has changed Slagle’s role from that of taskmaster to
that of overseer. He expects this year’s Davidson team to be a continuation of the 1990 team, which finished ranked
21st in the nation. “This year,” he says, “we have three main ingredients. Obviously, we have a scorer who is
one of the best if not the best in the country, a superb goalkeeping position, and we have leadership, with
nine seniors, that has been unmatched in my time here. Because of that, we’re refining as opposed to starting things
anew.”

Since last year’s team graduated only three players, goalie Doug Long and midfielders Spider Wormuth and Lance Long, nearly every
player on the roster this year possesses considerable experience, and Slagle anticipates utilizing 15 or 16 different starters in the
first six games. Ukrop and budding junior scorers Hayes and John Sampers should see most of the minutes up front.
A combination of Matt Spear, Phelps Sprinkle, Preston Yarborough, Lance Kinerk and Andy Schwab (all seniors) will roam the midfield.
Seniors Cliff Castelloe and Craig Omli will reprise their roles on defense, with Mike Newton or Kinerk at stopper and
Bryce Smith or John Olin at sweeper. Sophomore Alex Deegan was all anyone could ask for last season in the
net (0.87 GAA) and will be the primary goalkeeper, but Slagle promises that understudy Neal Andrews “will play some games,
for sure.”

With the return of their closer, the Wildcats should be more aggressive offensively this year. The team will continue to
play Slagle’s trademark trapping zone defense, but will look to counterattack more than previous Davidson teams have.

The ultimate goal this year, as in all years, is an NCAA Tournament berth; Davidson’s road to the tournament is
virtually as tough as one could imagine. Slagle has always believed that the way to build a great team is
to play great teams, and this year he has taken his theory to its logical conclusion; he estimates that Davidson’s
schedule is the second-toughest in the country behind Duke’s. Nine teams on the schedule received NCAA bids either last year
or the year before. There are home games against North Carolina and South Carolina, and road games at Wake Forest,
Duke, N.C. State, Furman and perennial powerhouse UCLA. Slagle says that explanations are superfluous with this year’s team. The players
are so experienced that he simply calls out a drill, rolls out the balls, and watches them go to work.
Now, he says, his job is simply to “alter and adjust and fine-tune.” He wants the team to reach mid-season
form early in the season and try to reach higher plateaus as the season progresses. If it happens as he
envisions it, Davidson could land among the national soccer elite.

Hockey

Continued from page 13

Another advantage will be the cohesiveness of the team. The remaining nine underclassmen include six sophomores, Mary Ferguson, Nancy Hilles,
Robin Pepper, Missy Potts, Andrea Short and Megan Snyder, and three freshmen, Mandy Curtis, Nicole Ficeto and Holly Kledis. This
youthful group rounds off the depth of the team and will be looked to heavily for support.

Hopefully, the Wildcats will be able to fulfill their goals and use their advantages in order to reproduce yet another
successful season. The first home game is Wednesday, September 9 against Duke at 4:30 p.m.

Be Like Bruce!

Write For

RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS

Look forward to the future with confidence. Enroll in Army ROTC, an elective that’s different from any other college course.
ROTC offers hands-on leadership training. Training that gives you experience and helps build self-confidence, character and management skills. All the
credentials employers look for. ROTC is open to freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about 4 hours per week.
It will put your life on a whole new course.

For more information: Call 892-2165 or stop by the Department of Military Studies in Belk Hall.

MIL 101 - The U.S. Army Today "Introduction to Leadership" ***3 Sections Offered*** MIL 101-A, Thursday 14:30 - 15:20 MIL
101-B, Thursday 13:00 - 13:50 MIL 101-C, Wednesday 15:30 - 16:20
