14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

Run and Shoot Misfires in Football Loss to Sewanee
By John Underhill

They say that the team that wins the battle of turnovers in a football game is sure to win. Saturday afternoon in Sewanee, TN, the University of the South did, and, sure enough, won the game. The Tigers forced five Davidson interceptions without committing a turnover of their own, and thumped the Wildcats 37-20.

Davidson took a 13-7 lead in the second quarter, before the run and shoot offense, in only its second appearance, began to falter. The 'Cats tied the game at 7-7 in the first quarter when junior quarterback Richard Howell threw 47 yards for a touchdown to senior wideout Dan Lamar. Lamar caught six passes for 119 yards and two touchdowns on the day. Early in the second period, senior fullback Mike Wright put Davidson up 13-7 when he scored on a 10-yard run.

Sewanee came back to tie the game at 13-13, and then punched in Wildcat interceptions for touchdowns on the next two possessions. The Tigers held a 27-13 advantage at the half. The Wildcats closed out their scoring in the third quarter, cutting the lead to 27-20 on a nine-yard touchdown pass from Howell to Lamar. But Sewanee responded with a field goal and a fourth-quarter touchdown to put the game out of reach.

The Tigers had very little trouble offensively, passing and rushing for identical totals of 248 yards. Howell completed 18 of 36 passes for 219 yards, but his four interceptions were devastating. Matt Matheny threw the other interception on a halfback pass.

Paul Continued from page 13

while only losing three more. As the season progressed, Paul regained his strength, threw increasingly harder and got better and better control. "Andy was as focused as I've seen a player," Cooke said. His work ethic was outstanding. He had some success but never took anything for granted."

After the season, Cooke arranged for Paul and teammate Tim to play in a summer league based in New Jersey. After the first game Paul pitched in the league, the Brewers began talks with him. By the time Paul’s second start came around, the word had gotten out, and representatives of seven or eight franchises showed up at the game. Paul threw a one-hitter. On June 23, a few days after his third start, in which he struck out 12 batters, Paul signed with the Brewers.

Within days after signing, Paul found himself in Helena, Montana playing in the Pioneer League, an advanced rookie league. Paul pitched four games there before returning to Davidson this August, winning three and failing to get the decision in the fourth. The day after his graduation in May, Paul will fly to Stockton, Arizona, where he will join the Brewers’ Class A team.

Paul’s main reason for giving up his senior year of eligibility was fear of injury. "Lots of guys have been hurt before they get their chance. I didn’t want to wait," he said. Paul admits it was a tough decision, however, and exhibits great gratitude to his teammates and coach. He says, "My teammates were so supportive of me last season, I feel I owe them something... Coach Cooke basically made me. He really taught me how to pitch."

Paul’s respect for Cooke is mutual. "By the end of the season Andy had as good a stuff as anybody we faced all year," he said. "I’d put his breaking ball against anybody’s in the country. He now has the chance to take a legitimate shot at the big leagues. The degree of Milwaukee’s interest was great, they weren’t just filling a spot on the roster... This is what every baseball player strives for. It’s great when a player can go to the next level from here... that’s what it’s all about."

Women's Soccer

Rain Cheats Field Hockey Out of Chance at Blue Devils
By Jennifer Roos

The Duke game is a high point on Davidson’s field hockey schedule every year; this season, the 'Cats’ matchup with the 14th-ranked Blue Devils opened their schedule. Unlike last year, when Duke dominated offensively on their own field, this year Davidson played their strongest game ever against the Blue Devils. The 'Cats successfully initiated their game plan of small, controlled passes with intermittent long passes to the wings for quick breakaways, and gave the Blue Devils quite a scare.

The game was scoreless until the last minute of the first half, when it began to drizzle. Duke senior Patti Stein scored from twenty yards out to make the score 1-0. Halftime was extended an extra five minutes and play was resumed in the rain. Afteranother five minutes, one of the two referees called the match to an end. Usually in such situations play is halted and then resumed after the deterring weather has dissipated, but this contest was simply terminated, much to the dismay of many Davidson and Duke players. Senior Jenny Plowright said, “Duke has finally learned to respect our program, yet that isn’t enough. I wish we could have finished the game because I felt that we were ready to control the second half.” Monique Dockter, Jacquelin Ukrop, and Missy Potts each had shots on cage before the game was called, but could not convert. “We had some very good scoring opportunities, more so than any other year against Duke,” Ukrop said. “I am confident that we would have scored on them.” Still, despite the disappointment that came with the abrupt ending, Davidson coach Betsy Pryor believes that “we had many more positive things happen for us than Duke did. It was our first game, and I feel we are farther along than we were at the end of last season.” Davidson will continue its season with trips to Radford and Catawba and returns home on Saturday to face Virginia Commonwealth at 1:00 p.m.

Swim Team Dives Into New Year
By Will Cobb

In the fall of 1989, four individuals showed up at the Johnston swimming facility for the first club swimming team meeting. This fall, 61 swimmers and divers came to the Cannon Pool in the Baker Sports Complex for the first varsity swim team practice of the 1992-93 season. The swimming program has made great strides during the past three years with the help of swim team alumni, the new facility, support from athletic director Terry Holland, and the determination of several senior swimmers. Though the Davidson squads will still be considered underdogs in the majority of their meets, they are becoming more competitive each year. This year’s freshman class boasts 23 of the 61 swimmers and is referred to by coach Ron Morrow as a “very strong recruiting class.” The freshmen are the first group of recruits at Davidson and will enhance the performance of the team. For the second straight year, the team’s season will conclude with the Southern States Championship at Davidson. The Wildcats face a difficult schedule against bigger schools with scholarship programs. Swimming and diving, like most Davidson athletic programs, is non-scholarship and places a lot of emphasis on academics. The team boasted a 3.1 team GPA last year and qualified for the CSCA All-American Team. Since swimming is an individual sport, Coach Morrow emphasizes personal improvements in times and diving scores. The team has an optimistic attitude toward its standing against other schools this year. Senior Carlton Craig reflected on the upcoming year, “Our team has grown geometrically in size and logarithmically in strength and I expect us to place with the top teams at the Southern States Championship.” When asked how he is preparing for the swim season, senior Hayler Osborne commented after a few minutes of thought, “Little chocolate doughnuts have always been on my training table.” Seniors Tracy Barwick and Marc Cook have been integral parts in the growing success and development of the swimming program at Davidson. Divers Curtis Bickers and Caroline Prioleau are expected to provide senior leadership for the relatively young diving program. Coach Morrow encourages swimmers of all levels to join the team. In addition, if students have time and are interested, volunteers will be needed for all home meets. The first home meet will be an exhibition match on September 26 at 9:15 a.m., and the first official home meet will be November 7 against Harvard.

Quote of the Week:
"What time is it anyway? Let's call The Davidsonian office and find out."
-Dr. Robin Barnes