10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

Sports

‘Cats Play Well in Wednesday Loss to Demon Deacons
By Bruce Balestier

Since early January, the Davidson basketball team has been consistently good for one (and only one) thing; it has played well against every good team it has faced, capturing a win against Miami and falling twice by close margins to UNCC. The trend continued Wednesday in Winston-Salem, when the Wildcats gave Wake Forest a scare before losing 76-62.

Strangely, it was a game that Davidson really had a chance to win. Jason Zimmerman’s three-pointer as time expired in the first half cut the Wake lead to 43-35 and gave Davidson a heap of momentum. The ‘Cats capitalized on that momentum from the very outset of the second half. They began the period with an 11-2 run in which they thoroughly outplayed the Deacons; Detlef Musch’s slam off a lob pass from J.D. Heuer gave Davidson a 46-45 lead with 14:22 to play. A massive dunk by Rodney Rogers and a tip-in by Trelonnie Owens put Wake back on top, but Davidson continued to play well, staying within striking distance until the final minutes.

By Chris Hood

At first glance, Davidson’s performances in the Southern States Swimming and Diving Championships, held Feb. 14-16 at Cannon Pool, appear average; the men finished sixth out of eleven schools, while the women placed eighth. What are impressive are the tremendous advances which became the trademark of this year’s squads. Given that this is Davidson’s first year of varsity swimming and diving since 1982, the ‘Cats accomplishments in the Southern States seem to be just rewards for the diligent effort exerted in adjusting to Division I competition.

“We were still improving at the final meet,” head coach Ron Morrow said. “I expected strong efforts, considering we were in the championship, but we did much better than expected.”

The men’s and women’s teams combined to place 27 individuals and eight relays in the finals of their respective events. Final point totals stood at 232 for the men and 146 for the women. Thad Reece, who captured fifth in the one-meter dive and seventh in the three-meter, led all Davidson competitors with 26 points. Morgan Farrell, who won the consolation heats (good for ninth-place overall) of the 200-butterfly and 400 individual medley, finished the competition with 18 points. Hayler Osborn’s tenth-place showing in the 200-breaststroke paced his 16-point effort, and Andrew Hotchkiss took tenth in the 200 butterfly in amassing 13 points. Mark Johnson contributed five points, David Ownby added three, senior captain Todd Newnam picked up two and Dan Ream collected one point for the ‘Cats.

Coleman’s eleventh-place showing in the women’s one-meter paced her 12-point total. She was followed closely by Audrey Schuetz, who captured twelfth in the 100 butterfly and totaled 10 points. Tracey Barwick’s thirteenth-place showing in the 100 freestyle added to her 6-point effort, and Amy Laukkanen picked up twelfth in the 200 backstroke and 5 overall points. Michele Baskett contributed three points, and Kristie Moss added 2 to the ‘Cats total.

Assistant Coach Tricia Smith focused on the ‘Cats preparedness and focus at the championships. “I was very pleased and impressed at the way we rallied to bring our swimming and diving up a level,” she said.

An added benefit for competitors in the Southern States will not be fully realized until next Tuesday. “CBS This Morning” recorded all the swimmers and divers as they collectively wished all viewers a good morning, and the segment is scheduled to air March 3.

According to Morrow, there is a strong possibility that the Southern States will be held at Davidson again next season. He said that the school has yet to decide if it wants to hold the championships, but he stressed that Davidson is in a position to “assume the leadership role in developing the Southern States Conference.” He continued to express his gratitude to the Davidson town and college communities for their backing throughout the season.Sparts Call Bruce - 6524 Owens gave Wake the lead at 49-46, but Jason Zimmerman made a three-pointer with 10:10 left to tie it at 49. The Deacons proceeded to score 11 points in succession, led by Owens and Chris King, and took a 60-49 lead. George Spain’s three-point play with 6:26 left brought the Wildcats within 62-54, but they could come no closer. Wake made 6-8 free throws in the final minute to account for the final margin. Davidson’s poised performance against the Wake Forest pressure drew the respect of Deacon point guard Derrick McQueen. “I thought this game was just as tough as an ACC game,” he said. “The way they handled themselves down the stretch and handled our pressure, they did an excellent job.” The game excited Davidson coach Bob McKillop, who seemed to see success in the distance for his struggling team. “We’re close, we’re so close,” he said. “It’s a matter now of going out and doing it.” But the ‘Cats’ fine performance also raised a familiar question; namely, how can a team play so well against good teams and so poorly much of the time against lesser teams. While the knee-jerk reaction is to say that the team gets up only for big games, McKillop insists that this is not so. Instead, he says, there is simply something in the Big South matchups that affects the team adversely. But what that is is anyone’s guess. Musch and Janko Narat each scored 15 points to lead Davidson.

Once Again, Day Leads Radford Over 'Cats
By Bruce Balestier

Davidson, a 67% free-throw shooting team on the year, allowed Radford just enough breathing room by shooting 9-21 from the line, and the Highlanders’ Doug Day scored 27 points, including 12 in a pivotal second-half run, as Radford claimed an 89-75 win Saturday in Radford, Va. The Wildcats fell to 2-8, 7-16 with the loss, their seventh straight. Day went on a 12-0 run during the first two minutes of the second half by hitting four three-pointers, the final two from NBA range. The run turned Radford’s 40-36 halftime lead into a 52-36 bulge with 18:02 to play, and the Wildcats could never completely recover from it. But that’s not to say that Davidson didn’t make things interesting. The ‘Cats responded to Day’s run with a 9-0 run of their own to pull within 52-45, but could not get over the hump. The Radford lead was six points, at 64-58, after Frank Harris hit a hanging shot in the lane with 5:31 left. Solid Davidson defense on the following possession forced Day into an errant three-pointer from the right baseline, but the Highlanders’ Tom Gallaher grabbed the offensive rebound and scored to make it 66-58. Radford guard Chris Hawkins’ pull-up jumper on the next possession gave his team a 68-58 advantage and effectively ended the game. With the Wildcats forced to foul, Radford made 13 of 16 foul shots in the final 2:51 to take the win. Davidson stayed close to Radford in the first half despite an excessive amount of missed opportunities, most of them from the free throw line. The ‘Cats shot 5-13 from the line in the first half; Janko Narat, an 85% foul shooter, twice missed the front end of one-and-one situations. Forward J.D. Heuer scored 12 points in the half; his baseline jumper gave Davidson its last lead at 15-14, and his bank in the lane with 10 seconds left in the half brought the Wildcats within 38-36. Davidson coach Bob McKillop saw the missed opportunities of the first half as critical to the outcome. He said that it would have been a different game “if we [had made] our free throws and hit our layups in the first half.” Detlef Musch overcame a passive first half with an effective second half, and led Davidson with 17 points. Heuer, in his first start since November 1990, played a solid all-around game, scoring 14 points, grabbing six rebounds, passing for four assists and committing zero turnovers. Janko Narat and Harris each scored 13 points; Narat also grabbed 13 rebounds.

Best kegs $49
Cornelius FOOD MART
Milwaukee's $11.79
phone: 892-8801
Main Street, At the Square, Huntersville
Miller Lite BEER
24 12-oz. CANS SUITCASE
I-77 Exit 28 Cornelius
QUICK STOPS GAS
regular unleaded 99¢ per gallon
*prices subject to change*