Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992 NUMBER 17

Davidson to Host 1992, 1993 NCAA Soccer Finals
By Bruce Balestier

The NCAA Division I Men’s Soccer Committee Tuesday chose Davidson over two other sites as the host of the semifinals and finals of the 1992 and 1993 NCAA Men’s Soccer Tournaments. It is all but a certainty that their recommendation will be formally confirmed in May by the NCAA Executive Committee. This year’s semifinals and finals will take place December 4 and 6 at Richardson Field.

The Soccer Committee evidently was swayed by the presentation made February 5 by athletic director Terry Holland, men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle, and marketing director Pat Millen. That presentation included statements of support from North Carolina Governor James G. Martin, Charlotte Mayor Richard Vinroot, and several local businesses and television stations. In addition, virtually every college soccer coach in the area committed his support to the Davidson bid.

Davidson’s facilities and proximity to Charlotte, the seating capacity of Richardson Field (6,200), and the vital local and regional soccer communities all figured favorably into the successful presentation. Said Slagle, “We convinced the Committee that the college community and the soccer community will get behind this. And I think it will happen.”

“This is great!” Holland said. “Davidson is the perfect school to host the NCAA soccer championship. We have a small school but it’s got a big heart and is a vital part of the larger Charlotte community, which has grown rapidly as a center of sports activity. I believe it will be strongly supported by the community. We'll do everything within our power to make it the most successful soccer championship ever.”

Slagle anticipates adding 2,000-3,000 temporary seats to the permanent stands at Richardson Field for the tournament. The playing surface still contains some ridges from the field’s widening last summer, but the Davidson grounds crew has already set a timetable for fixing them. Johnston Gym will likely serve as a media center during the event, and the Vail Commons will host the tournament banquet.

The event should give a boost to the already strong Davidson soccer program. CBS broadcasts the event nationwide, and that exposure should make Slagle’s

See "Soccer" on page 3

Student Receives Sanctions After Lengthy Honor Council Trial
By Tom Koonce and David Smyth

On Friday, February 14, the Honor Council convened in Phi Hall to examine an alleged violation of Section IV of the Code of Responsibility. Junior Philip Atchison was accused of threatening another member of the student body, freshman Braulio Lopez, over the phone. Atchison pleaded guilty to the charge of leaving a harassing message on Lopez’s answering machine. Atchison turned himself in to Dean of Students Will Terry on February 6 in an admission of his guilt.

The trial was open to the public at the request of Atchison. It began at 5:30 p.m. Friday afternoon with the presentation of witnesses by the defense and ended at 12:45 a.m. early Saturday morning with closing statements by the solicitors and defense. At this time, the council entered into executive session to decide what sanctions Atchison should receive. The six voting council members and the secretary deliberated for another hour and a half before reaching agreement on Atchison’s punishment.

The members of the Honor Council who listened to this case and decided on the sanctions were Lee Canipe, Carter Payne, Catherine Milligan, Peter Amidon, Matt Bumstead (secretary), and Chairman of the Honor Council, John Howell. The council imposed alcohol and social probation on Atchison until December and said that he must undergo alcohol counseling. They also stated that he must perform 100 hours of community service under the guidance of Assistant Dean of Students John Eaves. Atchison must also enrollin a course in multiculturalism at Johnson C. Smith University. The council stated that Atchison must send a written apology to Lopez and must meet together with Lopez and Dean Terry. The council also said that Atchison must write two columns in The Davidsonian. He must write one now about his opinions and feelings of what has happened and one after he has completed the J.C. Smith course and the community service. Atchison was represented by four defense advisers. The current advisers, Tom Cors and Brendan O’Sullivan, asked the questions to witnesses while the advisers-elect, Arthur Morehead and David Lind-

See "Trial" on page 4

Student Conduct Council Makes Changes to Honor Code
By Tom Koonce

The Student Conduct Council recently passed changes to the Davidson Honor Code after discussing such action for the past several months. Over the course of last semester and the beginning of this one they met several times, once with David Thompson and once with the entire Honor Council, to discuss possible changes. Thompson, former Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian, is a proponent of the implementation of a jury system. The SCC mandated a change in the election procedure that will enable more Honor Council members to participate in the election of chairman. Instead of electing three representatives in the spring, the sophomore and junior classes will now elect six members each in the fall. This means that students will not elect members to the Honor Council in their freshmen and senior years. Students will therefore have additional time to select the first representatives from their classes. This will allow for more thorough peer evaluation and adjustment to the College environment. The election of Honor Council chairman will occur at the end of the spring and seniors will serve until their graduation. This means that seniors will now be able to vote for chairman of the Honor Council. The total number of Honor Council members voting for the chairman will thus move from 18 to 30. The SCC also considered but declined to institute the jury system. In other decisions, the SCC mandated a mock trial early in the fall for freshmen. These new proposals will not go into effect until next year. The changes will now be sent to President Kuykendall for his approval. Next year's chairman and secretary will be elected in the next couple of weeks by the Honor Council. Elections for members of the Honor Council from the freshmen, sophomore, and junior classes will be this Tuesday, February 18.

Davidsonian Editorship Changes Hands
By David Smyth

On Friday, January 31, the Media Board unanimously approved Walter Price as editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian for 1992-3. After endorsements from David Thompson and David Smyth, outgoing chief editor and managing editor, respectively, Price was voted in without incident. Price has been the executive editor for the past year and at this point is in a better position to keep the newspaper rolling than any other editor in years. He will be ably assisted by new associate editors Tom Koonce and Tom Price and new managing editor Sarah Gayle. The new head was praiseworthy of the past regime, but sees room for improvement this year. “David (Thompson) has done a really good job and has made the paper better than it has been in a long time. I still think we can do more to open up The Davidsonian to the whole campus. Diversity might be something of a buzzword these days, but it won’t hurt to be able to apply it to the paper. We plan to make concerted efforts to gather writers and editors from groups on campus other than our own.”

INSIDE
NEWS: Tong authors anthology on feminism. See page 2.
Speaker discusses Israeli perspective. See page 3.
OPINIONS: He's Back! Dave Thompson. See page 8.
ARTS: Davidson Players to perform Antigone. See page 10.
SPORTS: Cats lose in hoops. See page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 — Davidson, NC 28036