THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1992

NCSL Continued from page 1

who voted her Best New Delegate. At the 55th Annual NCSL session in early March, Kirkland’s “touch” did not fail
her, in that both of her sponsored bills passed and were signed into law. In fact, her bill, “A Criminal
Punishment Amendment,” was the first business of the House of Representatives. This bill calls for a constitutional change and a
referendum, which would allow the General Assembly to expand the number of punishments that it can mandate. The bill passed
by consent (consensus) in the House and the Senate with no negative debate and was the first piece of legislation
to be signed into law by the NCSL Governor at session. Her other bill, “Prison Privatization Option,” passed in both
Houses with extended debate. If enacted by the North Carolina Government, she said, “it would give the Secretary of the
Department of Corrections of North Carolina the option to contract with private companies for the operation of prisons.”

Kirkland’s hard work has not gone unnoticed by the Davidson Delegation or her NCSL peers. Close friend Warren Cooksey nicknamed
her “Sparky” because, he said, “in NCSL there is always that new individual who has a genuine enthusiasm and magnetism
that attracts and infects others with a love of legislation. This individual is a spark of hope for the organization,
and this year, the individual is Anni.” The Best New Delegate award Kirkland received at the 55th Annual Session is
both an honor and a prediction of Kirkland’s future. Since its creation in 1990, the award has been presented to
new delegates who have gone on to be leaders in NCSL. The Speaker of the House for March’s session received
this award in 1990, and the NCSL’s newly-elected governor received the award last year.

Kirkland attributes much of her newfound success to Watson Continued from page 1

Terry is the coordinator for selecting candidates to represent Davidson. Over fifty private colleges and universities throughout the United States
sponsor the Watson Fellowship, which provides a grant of $13,000 to each recipient. Amherst, Bryn Mawr, Johns Hopkins, Pomona, and
Swarthmore are among the colleges and universities that participate. John Patton, a political science major from Harvard, Massachusetts, said he
was drawn to apply for the Watson Fellowship award because he noticed the positive emphasis the Foundation placed upon a
self-designed experience with a very free reign. This free reign left Patton free to “study people in real life with
and among them,” he said. The title of his project is “Resurgent Nationalism In The Old Soviet Union: The Religion
Factor.” His project will concentrate on five different areas, each with a different religion. Examples include Islam in Central Asia,
Russian Orthodoxy in Russia, and Lutheranism in Latvia. He stated that his goal was to “understand what role religion has
in the new political order.”

Thomas Johnson, a senior living in Allentown, Pennsylvania this semester, has proposed to study the Islamic response to bioethical challenges.
Johnson has been very involved in medical humanities in his studies here in Davidson. He, too, was attracted to the
Watson Foundation by the idea of a self-structured traveling scholarship with a free reign.

Davidson’s former Delegation Chairpersons (DCP), Cooksey, who was DCP from 1989-91 and served as President Pro-tempore in the Senate at
NCSL Session, and Elizabeth Sellers, Davidson’s DCP and Clerk of the Court for NCSL this year. Kirkland said she has
tremendous respect for Cooksey and Sellers whom she feels, “have provided leadership and knowledge.” Kirkland was recently elected Delegation Chairperson
for next year. She has many things she wants to accomplish, among which are the recruitment of minority students, upperclassmen,
and next year’s freshmen. She also plans to expand and diversify NCSL’s membership.

Shakespeare Continued from page 1

between the four lovers; Hermia (played by Allison Wright), Helena (Kate Dunlop), Demetrius (David Smyth), and Lysander (David Tweedie). Other
performers to lookfor are Frank Jernigan, as Oberon, King of the Fairies, and Mary McNeill, as Titania, their proud Queen.
And oh yes! We mustn’t forget to watch for the hysterical escapades and malapropisms of Bottom, played by Brad Griffin.
Everyone in the class has helped build the set, in Lingle Chapel, which consists mainly of risers and drapery. But,
as Lewis points out, the architecture inside resembles that of the interior of a seventeenth-century private theater. This will hopefully
lend itself to the attempted authenticity of this production and allow the actors, as well as the audience, to slip
easily into their “dream state.” Lewis, with a little help from her actors, is now convinced that A Midsummer Night's
Dream is Shakespeare’s funniest play. The class hopes everyone will be able to share their experience, starting this weekend—Friday and
Saturday night. I will lead the wide-eyed pack of Beach Weekenders into Lingle Chapel on the following Monday and Tuesday
night. Tickets are four dollars and may be purchased from the Union Box Office, any member of the cast, or
at the door.

CAMPUS CRIME

2:08 a.m. - 2:09 a.m. Friday, April 3
Between the above times, someone threw an egg through a 3rd-floor dorm room window in Watts Dormitory. The egg broke
a window pane valued at $10.

6:00 p.m. Tuesday, March 3 - 1:00 p.m. Tuesday, March 17
Between the above times, some person(s) entered the Press Room of the Davidsonian, which may have been locked or unlocked,
and removed one beige International Business Machine (IBM) Printer. The printer, which is thought to have been taken specifically over
Spring Break, is valued at $500.

4:00 p.m. Friday, March 27 - 7:15 a.m. Monday, March 30
Between the above times, some person(s) drove a stiff strand of wire through the radiator of a dump truck belonging
to the Davidson Grounds Department. When the truck was started, the wire obstructed the radiator fan and punctured the radiator.
The safety chains between the rear of the vehicle and the wood chipper in tow were found messed with. The
damage is estimated at $100.

9:30 a.m. Wednesday, March 25 - 8:15 a.m. Thursday, March 26
Between the above times, some person(s) removed a black Zenith VCR and the included videocassette, “The Effective Uses of Power
and Authority,” from the unlocked Chambers classroom 215. The VCR and tape are valued at $529.

FUNDRAISING PROGRAM
Fraternities, sororities, student clubs. Earn up to $1000 in one week. Plus receive a $1000 bonus yourself. And a FREE
WATCH just for calling 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 65.

Tuition Fees:
LSE Economics faculty and distinguished visiting professors from Yale and the London Business School
1 session £625
2 sessions £1125
Graded by the Graduate School at LSE and by other universities
First Session 29 June - 17 July
Second Session 20 July - 7 August

Growth of the Industrial World Economy
Mathematics for Economists
Principles of Accounting
Intermediate Microeconomics
Economics of Transition in Eastern Europe
Economic Perspectives on Society
Advanced Economic Theory
Business Strategy
Finance
Development Economics
Economics of European Integration

INTERNATIONAL SUMMER SCHOOL IN ECONOMICS 1992
29 June - 7 August

“LSE’s academic programme is combined with the excitement of the City of London, providing a unique graduate experience.”

Intensive, high-quality programme taught by senior members of The London School of Economics and Political Science. All courses offer 50
contact hours and are examined and certificated.

Accommodation: Available in LSE residences and Docklands locations.

Further Details from:
Susan Laverick, International Summer School in Economics, London School of Economics, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE.
Tel: 44 (0) 71 955 7554
Fax: 44 (0) 71 831 1840

SUNGLASS WHERE AMERICA SHOPS FOR SUNGLASSES
Maui Jim, Oakley, Serengeti, Revo, AND THOUSANDS OF OTHER STYLES
THE LARGEST SUNGLASS SHOP IN THE CAROLINAS
QUALITY-SELECTION-SERVICE-PRICE
SEE OUR SELECTION OF OPTICAL FRAMES FROM $19.95 TO $39.95
EXIT 28, I-77, CORNELIUS, SOUTHLAND SHOPPING CENTER (NEXT TO HARRIS TEETER)
(704) 892-6017
LAKE NORMAN, N.C.
