NEWS 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

Blowing Off Smoke on College Campuses

By Karen Neustadt

(CPS) -- The glamour of smoking is in ashes in the 1990s, and college campuses are taking a hard look at policies, some with an eye toward creating an entirely smoke-free environment in the future. Many schools are dumping vending machines, removing ashtrays from sight, and banishing smokers either off-campus, or to small, contained areas away from non-smokers. Tucked in the back of school newspapers are advertisements claiming to help students quit the smoking habit. “You Can Do It” or “Let’s Help You Kick That Nasty Habit” spur the headlines encouragingly.

“I don’t think smoking among college students is considered cool,” says Randy Hurlow, director of communications of the American Cancer Society in Washington state. “It’s that they start before they are 18, and by the time they are in college, they are addicted.” Yet, many college students continue to smoke. According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, a recent survey reflects that in the 20-24 year age group, 31.1 percent of males smoke, and 26.1 percent of females also have the habit. People start smoking early -- 80 percent, in fact, are addicted by the time they are 18 years old. Non-smoking activists are fighting to strengthen laws against underage smoking so teenagers don’t become college students with a major nicotine addiction.

In December, three studies published in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that the Camel logo, “Joe Camel,” captures the fancy of more children than adults, and is as readily recognizable as Mickey Mouse by many 6-year-olds. According to a December 23 article in Newsweek magazine, Camel’s cigarette sales to young people rose sharply from $6 million a year prior to using the logo to $476 million today. While nearly half the students were smoking after the war, since the 1960s, smoking trends have fluctuated among college-educated individuals.

RIT Will Maintain CIA Ties

ROCHESTER, N.Y. (CPS) - Trustees at the Rochester Institute of Technology have voted to continue many of the school’s connections with the Central Intelligence Agency, but said all agreements will be kept public and under close scrutiny. In late November, the RIT board declared “null and void” all previous agreements between the agency and the school that had not been made public, including those that gave the CIA a role in determining curricular matters. A statement released by the trustees said: “The board believes that there is nothing inherently inconsistent with RIT's academic mission in accepting funding from the CIA, having current employees of the CIA on campus, or in conducting research or studies on behalf of the CIA.” The school’s past ties with the agency resulted in student protests and, ultimately, the resignation of president M. Richard Rose.

Take A Left At The Next Light, Right?

URBANA, Ill. (CPS) - If you plan to visit the University of Illinois anytime soon, you might not want to use the student/staff directory map to find your way. An example: the location of Administration Building is misplaced on the map and leads students not to the administrative offices but to the university swine barns. Still, university officials told the student paper they have confidence in the publication. “I’m sure there is some incorrect information in there. ... There are all sorts of errors that can creep into this process,” said Douglas Wolfersberger, assistant vice president for the computer office. “The percent of error is very small.”

Two Gay Men Elected To Ohio Homecoming Court

COLUMBUS, Ohio (CPS) - For the first time in the history of Ohio State University, two gay men were chosen as members of the 1991 Homecoming Court. Selected were Marc Conte, a senior and president of the Bisexual, Gay, and Lesbian Alliance, and Mike Scarce, a senior and vice president of the alliance. In 1972, gay activist Gary Levin caused a stir when he put in a bid for Homecoming Queen because no equal role was available for men. Although Levin was eliminated in the first round, he paved the way for the creation of Homecoming King in 1973.

ELECTION SIGN-UPS

For SGA President, SGA Vice President, Union President, Union Vice Presidents (Social & Co-Curricular), Student Solicitor, and Defense Advisor are Monday, January 20 - Thursday, January 23 in the Dean of Students’ office. Completed Stuart Scholarship applications are due January 31, 1992. King, Room 111 Chambers (x2202) if interested in applying for this.Adults over 20, with smoking at its peak in the mid-70s. After warnings from the U.S. Surgeon General and federal crackdowns on glitzy tobacco advertising, there has been a decline in smoking among people with some college education, from 42 percent to 26 percent between 1965 and 1987, according to the American Lung Association. The facts about smoking are grim:

* Based on data from the National Center for Health Statistics, smoking is the single largest preventable cause of premature death and disability in the United States and kills more Americans each year than cocaine, heroin, alcohol abuse, drugs, auto accidents, homicide, and suicide combined.
* Americans still smoke 600 billion cigarettes yearly.
* Though there have been many lawsuits filed against the tobacco companies by smokers, recently a $5 billion class-action suit was filed by a group of cancer-stricken flight attendants charging that second-hand smoke caused the disease.
* Only 13 percent of lung cancer patients live five years or more after diagnosis.

What are colleges doing to curb smoking on campus? This fall, at West Virginia Wesleyan College, faculty and staff members voted to ban most smoking on campus. No sanctions have been created for those who don’t comply, say officials, and everyone on campus uses the honor system. “A growing concern for the health and wellness of our students, staff, and visitors has been the stimulus for this policy,” says J. David Thomas, college treasurer.

At the University of Washington and other state colleges, young smokers will soon be targeted by a statewide anti-smoking program funded by a $7.1 million grant. Washington state competed with 37 other states to receive part of a $115 million federal grant to research smoking problems in the state.

At Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College in Indiana, the administration did a year-long smoking study and developed policies that left the campus virtually smoke-free, with the exception of a few contained areas. Students have become increasingly vocal in their opposition to smoking. “That’s because most college smokers don’t have any respect for non-smokers,” says Angela Miller, 20, a sophomore at Saint Mary-of-the-Woods who says she is allergic to cigarette smoke. “A lot of people hide their smoking habit because it’s unhealthy. It’s not cool. People smoke because they have friends that smoke. I get mad because smokers...” (See "Smoke" on page 4)

Church Labelled Cult Targets Pennsylvania Campuses
By Bill Cunnane, The Student Vanguard

Philadelphia (CPS) -- A fundamentalist Christian group called the Greater Philadelphia Church of Christ, an affiliate of the Boston Church of Christ, has begun seeking converts on college and university campuses in the Philadelphia area. According to William Alnor, of the Philadelphia Cult Awareness Network and president of Eastern Christian Outreach, “The Philadelphia Church of Christ is a horrible blight on the religious scene in the Philadelphia area. Although they worship God and the Bible, they use the techniques of a cult to gain and keep new members. They are particularly active as a destructive force on most of the college campuses in the region.”

The church maintains its position is legitimate. The Boston Movement was started by Kip McKean in 1979. According to the Winter 1990 issue of the movement’s magazine, “Discipleship,” the membership in the ministries totaled 28,724 in 1990 and continues to grow. Rebecca Fritsley, a current member of the Greater Philadelphia Church, said, “The Church of Christ is not a cult. I am a member of my own free will. The church follows the Bible to the letter and I follow the church.”

A former member describes the church practices differently: “They teach a lot about the Bible, however, they are very restrictive. All decisions concerning your life are discussed with a bible study leader...or with a ‘discipler,’” said the woman, who asked not to be identified for fear of retaliation. According to the former church member, the discipler is a more experienced member of the church who instructs members to obey the laws of the church. “You also set goals, personal and otherwise, with this discipler. Goals concerning the church would be anything from inviting 20 people to the church to organizing a party, again inviting prospective members. If those goals are not met you are asked to sell personal belongings and donate money to the church,” the woman said.

According to her, the group targets college campuses because students are impressionable and have open minds. At Villanova University, non-student church recruiters have been... (See "Cults" on page 5)

Please contact Brenda S. for the prestigious award.