2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

Political Briefs

Clinton to Visit Charlotte

Presidential candidate Bill Clinton will visit the Charlotte area this Monday, October 12 at 7:00 pm. Vice-presidential candidate Al Gore will join him for the rally. They will also be accompanied by the Congressional Black Caucus at James B. Marshall Park in Charlotte. The park is located between 2nd and 3rd on McDowell.

McMillan Named "Taxpayer Hero" and Guardian of Small Business

(Washington, DC) — U.S. Representative Alex McMillan has been named as one of the few “Taxpayer’s Heroes” in Congress according to the Citizens Against Government Waste and a “Guardian of Small Business” by the National Federation of Independent Business. Citizens Against Government Waste, established in 1985 following the release of the Grace Commission Report, is a 500,000-member grassroots lobbying organization which each year rates members of Congress on their spending habits. The “Taxpayer's Hero” award is given to congressmen who have voted to significantly reduce or eliminate waste in order to decrease the burden on taxpayers.

The National Federation of Independent Business gave McMillan a 100% rating for his votes on small business issues, including deficit reduction, the line item veto, and the Balanced Budget Amendment. McMillan was one of only 92 out of 435 congressmen to receive the award.

Alcohol Awareness Week to be Observed

By News Staff

Davidson College will observe National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week during October 12-26, 1992. This particular week is sponsored by the Student Counseling Center whose Director is Dr. David Staton. Dr. Art Flagg is coordinating all events. Most activities will occur during noon on the patio of the Grey College Union. Activities will include a Mocktail experience, two guest speakers from Charlotte Helping Agencies, a Service Delivery Fair, two Alcohol Awareness Study Breaks (Wednesday and Thursday at 10 p.m. in the Morrison Room), and a Red Ribbon Day. There will also be an “Alcohol-Wrecked Car” displayed in front of Chambers throughout the week. The guest speakers for this week are Merrilyn Gill, a Certified Substance Abuse Counselor from the Charter Pines Hospital, and Winston Gill from the Drug Education Center. For more information, please contact the Student Counseling Center at extension 2451.

Revolutionary New Software Program Could End Hassles of Drop-Add

By Rachel Newcomb

Last week, Davidson College purchased an innovative new software system which, over the next few years, should dramatically increase the efficiency of many of the college’s operations. This $400,000 system, called “Banner,” was developed by SCT Corporation and will replace the current AIMS administrative software that Davidson uses. The new Banner software will have many uses, among them: better identification of prospective Davidson students, recording of endowment gifts, and an easier way for the financial aid office to determine whether students have submitted the required financial aid forms.

The current software program, AIMS, which has been in operation since 1981, has outlived its usefulness. The company that produced AIMS went out of business, and as a result, Davidson computer programmers have had to make more than 2,000 time-consuming modifications in order to keep it updated. “All the administration will be on new software; it is absolutely current and will be able to do things we aren’t even aware of yet,” said registrar Polly Griffin, who chaired the administrative task force which chose Banner. “There are many possibilities, and what is being done now on the AIMS system will be much more efficient on Banner,” said Griffin. She cited as an example the ease with which Davidson students will soon be able to check on necessary credits and find out which requirements they still need to receive diplomas. According to Griffin, the new software will allow Davidson the opportunity to take a look at some of the current ways it operates and let the college decide if changes need to be made. The Drop/Add

Judge Fulton Addresses Problems in N.C.'s Legal, Criminal Justice Systems

ByMike Grant

On Monday, September 28, Shirley Fulton delivered her speech “Justice in the 90’s” in the 900 room. Fulton, a graduate of NC A&T and Duke Law School, is the only black female Superior Court Judge in North Carolina. She was elected to this position in 1988 by Mecklenburg County.

Spring Break '93
Panama City Beach, Florida
Sales Representative Needed to Work with the #1 Spring Break Team
TRAVEL ASSOCIATES AND TOUR EXCEL
Sell the BEST Properties on the Beach
SUMMIT CONDOMINIUMS
MIRACLE BEACH RESORT
HOLIDAY INN, PIER 99
Earn Top Commission and Free Trips
For Information Call Julie 1-800-558-3002
LOOKING FOR STUDENT GROUPS TO SPONSOR US ON FAST, EASY, BIG MONEY.
CALL 800-592-2121 EXT. CAMPUS. 309.
Earn Free Spring Break Trips & $2500 Selling Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & Prices! 1-800-678-6386.

HELP Support YOUR College Radio Station, WDAV
Volunteers Needed to Answer Phones for the Annual Fundraising Effort from October 12 to November 1. 6:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m.
Call: 892-8900

From her unique perspective atop the legal hierarchy, Fulton first gave the audience insight into the state legal system, touching ground and exposing shortcomings in such areas as the courts themselves, the criminal justice system, and the parole and probation systems. The principal problem, according to Fulton, is volume. Each year the court system hears an increasingly greater number of cases and sentences a greater number of felons to periods of incarceration. The prison system, like the justice system, is at present unable to handle this increase in volume. Consequently, most convicted criminals serve only a fraction of their prison sentences. In 1980, the average prisoner served only 36% of the imposed prison sentence. By 1990, this already alarmingly low percentage had plummeted to a mere 22.5%, and Fulton estimated that by the mid-1990s the percentage could fall to as low as 2% of sentenced time unless radical changes are made. Furthermore, as these prisoners are released prematurely, they are put into an already overburdened parole system. This system is unable to offer them positive guidance, and therefore puts them in jeopardy of becoming repeat offenders.

See "Fulton" on page 5

* EARN EXTRA INCOME *
Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to:
Travel INC., P.O. Box 2530, Miami, FL 33161

This process is one of the things that could be affected. Many students have complained about specific difficulties, especially the lengthy procedures involved in the actual dropping and adding of classes. Under the Banner software, a new efficient method of Drop/Add could be implemented that would not have been possible on the existing system. Banner has been hugely popular in large institutions and was recently adjusted for campuses in the 1,000-3,000 student range. Davidson is one of the first institutions to try it out. Installation of the first stage of Banner, the financial program, will be completed by July of 1993. The other programs to be installed in the future are human resources, financial aid, and student & alumni development. Banner should be completely in place by the summer of 1995.

EDUCATION FOR THE REAL WORLD
Graduate degree programs (MA, Ph.D) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues.
Area and Functional Fields:
- Interamerican Studies (U.S.-Latin American Relations)
- European Studies
- Middle East Studies
- International Relations
- International Business Management
- International Security and Conflict
- Comparative Development
- International Economics

ALL STEREO SOUND
Tom Selleck in "MR. BASEBALL" (PG-13)
3:25, 7:05, 9:25
Dan Aykroyd in "SNEAKERS" (PG-13)
3:30, 7:00, 9:30
"HERO" 3:10, 5:10, 7:10, 9:10
"EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES"
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM
MOVIES at THE LAKE
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS 892-3841
"MR. SATURDAY NIGHT" 3:25, 7:10, 9:30
"SINGLES" 3:30, 7:00, 9:30
"UNDER SIEGE" 3:05, 5:05, 7:10, 9:10

Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid.
Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Graduate Programs.
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
Admissions, Room #59
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010
(305) 284-4173
UNIVERSITY OF