THE DAVIDSONIAN: NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992 3
Davidson Selects Interim Chaplain
Search Continues For Hasty’s Replacement

By Katrice Schuler

In October, Gary Steber, an Episcopal priest, undertook the position of Davidson’s Interim Chaplain. He juggles the college chaplaincy and the duties of assistant to the rector of St. Luke’s Episcopal Church in Salisbury.

Steber’s past occupations include fighter pilot, forester, and sawmiller/logger, but the ordained ministry has always been his first choice. Steber attended undergraduate school and seminary at Sewanee and received his master's at Yale.

After relocating from Alabama to Davidson, he sees his duties as Interim Chaplain without strict definition. Therefore, Steber wants to “raise awareness, focus and re-focus and prepare the way for the chaplain to come.”

For Steber, college ministry must focus on the future and the realization that disappointments and questions will arise. He wants to help students “look at the fullness of life, the balance in life.”

Being an Episcopal priest at a Presbyterian-affiliated college has caused no problems at all. He adamantly repeats that he remains open not only to students but to all members of the college community of all religious beliefs. Steber believes that each faction of the college should get involved in the school’s religious life.

Steber will be on campus every Monday and Thursday. He encourages everyone to address him as “Gary” and introduce themselves to him.

Meanwhile, the search for a permanent chaplain continues. The search committee consists of students, faculty, and administration: Joe Cook, Laura Cunningham, Jon Weddell, Dr. Sandy McKelway, Dr. J.B. Stroud, and assistant dean of students Leslie Matsinano. Dean of students Will Terry acts as a resource and guide for the group.

In September, the search committee sent information to appropriate publications and seminaries inviting interested ordained Presbyterian ministers to apply for the position. Once the search committee receives a large pool of applicants, it will thoroughly examine them to procure a minister who fits the college’s needs.

See "Chaplain" on page 4

Native American Storyteller, Brian Ellis

By John David Semones

On Tuesday, October 27, the Cultural Events Committee hosted Native American Storyteller, Brian Ellis, in the 900 room. Ellis, who resides in Mooresville, NC, lived part of his childhood with his Cherokee grandmother in order to learn about his heritage.

Ellis began his performance by reciting “The Way,” a chapter from Forest Carter’s book, The Education of Little Tree. The story relates how the ‘way’ the Cherokee live their lives is the way Mother Earth intended all of her creatures to live. Brian’s next story was the “Coyote At the Movies,” which humorously depicted a coyote’s antics in a movie theater. After singing a Cherokee lullaby, “The Bear Song,” with the audience’s help, Ellis told “The Story of Jumping Mouse” followed by another audience participation call and response.

See "Ellis" on page 4

Are You Considering Professional School?

HARVARD UNIVERSITY'S JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT is looking for future leaders in Public Affairs.

We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy, with concentrations offered in:

- Criminal Justice
- Energy & Environmental Policy
- Government & Business
- Health Policy
- Housing & Community Development
- Human Services, Labor & Education
- International Affairs & Security
- International Development
- International Trade & Finance
- Press & Politics
- Science & Technology
- Transportation
- Urban Economic Development

Interested? Then come meet with the Kennedy School Representative who will be on your campus on:

DATE: Friday, November 13, 1992
TIME: 10:00 a.m. group session
LOCATION: Please contact the Student Counseling/Career office for this information.

ALL STUDENTS, ALL YEARS, ALL MAJORS WELCOME!

UNION OUTPOST MENU

PIZZA'S
Small Cheese $2.88
16" Large Cheese $4.99
Hamburger, Ham, Sausage, Pepperoni, Extra Cheese
75¢ each topping

Green Peppers, Onions, Mushrooms, Jalapenos, Tomatoes
50¢ each topping

SANDWICHES & SNACKS
Cold:
Hoagies $2.25

Hot:
Grilled Cheese $1.25
Grilled Ham & Cheese $1.99
Philly Steak & Cheese $2.99
Grilled Chicken Breast w/Honey Mustard, Lettuce, & Tomato on a Honey Bun $3.49

Macho Nacho's
Nacho Grande $3.99
1/2 Order $2.49

Bowl of Soup $1.99
Bowl of Soup w/Sandwich $1.49

BREAKFAST
3-Egg Omelets $1.99
Specialty Omelets:
Marco Polo w/Croissant $3.29
Ranchero w/Nachos $2.99
Open-faced Denver $2.99

Egg, Bacon, Ham, Sausage
Scrambled Eggs $1.00
English Muffins, Blueberry muffins
Bacon, Ham, Egg, Sausage 75¢ ea.
Toast, Hash Browns, Cheese