THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992 13 Sports Baseball Tops UVA, Radford: Record Stands at 15-6 By Bobby Bowers The Wildcat baseball squad is making its case for top athletic honors in 1992. After 21 games, they have earned a record of 15-6 and 3-0 in the conference behind an arsenal of offensive firepower. With an average of over 8 runs per outing, scoring has not been a problem for the Diamond ‘Cats. Coming off a 4-3 Spring Break week, Davidson swept its opponents last week with victories over Virginia, N.C. A&T, and Furman. Senior Jim Stanfill improved his record to 4-1 with an outstanding pitching performance as the Wildcats won the game Sunday afternoon. Team captain Mike Liebdzinski came on to record the third out in the 9th for his first save of the '92 season. Liebdzinski also had the best bat as he led the team in hitting with a home run in the 1st and 3 RBIs. After resting on Monday, the Wildcats traveled to Greensboro to take on the NC A&T Aggies. Randy Spaw got his first win of '92 as his teammates amassed an incredible 30-2 score in 8 innings when the game was called due to darkness. As a team, Davidson had 22 hits, including homers by Liebdzinski, Mac Chapman, and Chad Blackwelder. Two players, Rick Bender and Tim Kerns, had 4 hits each while Kerns added 5 RBIs. On Wednesday, the ‘Cats traveled to Furman and got their second victory over the Paladins this season in a 4-3 victory. Senior Derek Twombly boosted his record to 3-1 and Andy Paul saved his first game of the season. Jazz Freitas led Davidson with 3 hits from the lead-off position. Kerns smashed a home run in the 3rd and Joe Azzolino hit a 7th inning solo shot for the game-winning RBI. Saturday at Wildcat Park, Davidson swept a doubleheader.

By Bruce Balestier With 13 seconds left in a tie game with Liberty on March 2, the plan for Davidson was clear. Head coach Bob McKillop drew up an option play for point guard Frank Harris, in which he would penetrate toward the basket and either shoot the ball or draw the defense and find Janko Narat or Jason Zimmerman for an open outside shot. After receiving the ball in the backcourt, Harris dribbled to the top of the key, beat his man to the right, hesitated, and hit a 10-foot bank shot with five seconds left. Liberty called timeout with :04 to go, but their desperation three-pointer at the buzzer bounced long off the rim, and Davidson took a 69-67 win. Harris won the game late, but senior guard Sterling Freeman, playing his last home game, won it early. He opened the game with a baseline jumper and hit four of his first half. Detlef Musch’s short jumper brought the Wildcats.

By Bruce Balestier I guess it was only fitting. The Davidson basketball team ended a season of ups and downs on March 5 with a clear-cut down: a 69-60 loss to Campbell in the first round of the Big South Conference Tournament. The Wildcats entered the game brimming with the confidence that accompanied their four-game win streak, and perhaps seeing a first-round win as a foregone conclusion, forgot to play the game. The Camels built an 18-point lead over the game’s first 29 minutes before Davidson bothered to show up, and by then it was too late. The ‘Cats mounted a furious comeback late in the game to cut the lead to three points, but fell short. Despite playing generally passionless basketball, Davidson of the first half. Detlef Musch’s short jumper brought the Wildcats.

Harris Shot at elled to Furman and got their second victory over the Paladins this season in a 4-3 victory. Senior Derek Twombly boosted his record to 3-1 and Andy Paul saved his first game of the season. Jazz Freitas led Davidson with 3 hits from the lead-off position. Kerns smashed a home run in the 3rd and Joe Azzolino hit a 7th inning solo shot for the game-winning RBI. Saturday at Wildcat Park, Davidson swept a doubleheader.

In addition to keying the Wildcats’ aggressive half-court defense, Davidson held a 38-37 advantage at halftime. The Wildcats dominated the first ten minutes of the second half. Baskets inside by Detlef Musch, Harris, and Narat sprung Davidson to a 44-37 lead less than five minutes into the half. A free throw by Narat with 10:11 left gave the ‘Cats their largest lead at 52-43 before the Flames climbed back into the game. Over the next four and a half minutes, Liberty mounted a 13-4 run; a hoop in the paint by Julius Nwosu (20 points, nine rebounds) gave the Flames a 57-56 edge with 4:28 to play. But Musch gave Davidson the lead.Back 22 seconds later on a turn-around jumper, and the 'Cats extended the cushion. When Freeman hit a pair of foul shots with 2:28 left, Davidson led 64-58. Within 20-19 with 5:31 to go. But the Camels outscored Davidson 12-3 over the balance of the half to take a 32-22 lead at the intermission. It appeared that the Wildcats might have come to their senses when Frank Harris hit a layup on the first possession of the second half to cut the lead to 32-24. But no. For the next nine minutes, Campbell scored virtually at will on the Davidson defense, and the lead crested at 50-32 with 10:47 left. But help came from an unlikely source. In a frenzy of activity, 6'6" sophomore Ron Horton scored 11 points and collected six rebounds to fuel the Wildcat comeback. He scored the next seven Davidson points on a series of baseline drives to make it 52-39. Later, his layup and short jumper brought the 'Cats within 59-52 with 2:36 to go. Twice in the final two minutes, on a Janko Narat three-pointer and a Musch jump shot, Davidson drew to within three points, but that’s where it ended. With the 'Cats unable to convert from outside, and forced to foul to stop the clock, Campbell pulled away to a nine-point win. Narat paced Davidson with 16 points, but had a dreadful shooting day (6-17). Musch and Horton each scored 11 points. Campbell went on to win the Big South Tournament, beating Liberty and Charleston Southern, and lost to #1 Duke, 82-56, in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. The Wildcats finished 11-17, their highest win total in four years; they will return 85% of their scoring and 72% of their rebounds next year for their return to the Southern Conference.

Andy Paul moved to 4-1 on the year in the 4-3 win in game one. Jim Stanfill (5-1) earned the win in the 'Cats' 15-3 win in the nightcap. As of March 20, Davidson sported an impressive .319 team batting average, led by Liebdzinski at .397; four of his teammates are hitting over .340. Kerns leads two offensive categories with 7 homers and 24 RBIs.

Liberty, though, fought back at the line, hitting six in less than a minute’s time. Matt Hildebrand’s three-pointer with 36 seconds to go forged a 67-67 tie, and set the stage for Harris’s game-winning shot. In the win, Davidson’s fourth in succession, McKillop seemed to see signs that his inconsistent team might have turned things around. “There’s a toughness that wasn’t there earlier in the season,” he said. Harris led the 'Cats with 17 points. Narat added 13 and Freeman 12. With the win, Davidson tied for a fifth-place finish in the Big South regular season with Coastal Carolina and UNC-Asheville. Since the 'Cats lost twice to Coastal and twice defeated UNCA, they earned the sixth seed in the conference tournament and drew third-seeded Campbell in the first round.

'Cats End Season With Big South Tournament Loss to Champion Campbell

Bob Fierro (126) and Jimmy Stewart (Hwt.) took fourth-place finishes to lead the 'Cats. But Davidson coach Tom Oddo wasn’t displeased with his team. “Most of the guys wrestled to the best of their ability," he said. “The problem was we were wrestling incredibly tough competition.” According to Oddo, Southern Conference wrestling is as competitive as it has ever been, with six or seven individual wrestlers ranked in the top 20 nationally. He called the meet “great preparation for the rebuilding of the program.”

In the days with more even competition in the week before the conference tournament, Davidson fared much better. At 158 pounds, Sam Knowles went 5-0 against wrestlers from Gardner-Webb, Longwood, Campbell, Georgia State, and Georgia Tech. Stewart went 4-0-1. At 126 pounds, Fierro came back from second-period deficits to pin his Georgia Tech and Georgia State opponents. Myles Louria (134) abused his Georgia Tech opponent in a 7-1 decision. Said Oddo, “The guys wrestled incredibly well against competition that was our level.” Knowles finished the season with a very respectable 15-14-1 record. Both Stewart and senior Craig Wall compiled near-.500 records against some very good competition. Oddo is confident the program is moving in the right direction.