NEWS

unregistered. It is valued at $300.00.

Around 4:00 pm on Sunday, September 13, a brown Jansport bookbag was taken from the Government documents section of Little
Library. The bag contained only miscellaneous papers and work assignments. The bag itself is valued at $90.00.

Between the hours of 12:00 am and 11:45 am on Thursday, September 17, a Busch beer sign was removed from
the Kappa Sigma house. The back door and windows were unlocked. The sign is valued at $175.00.

If anyone has information on these or other crimes, please contact the Office of Public Safety at -2178.

Davidson Group Calls on Musicians to Unite

Amateur musicians from the Arts director said, “A lot of people have studied music for years, but have no outlet
to practice and enjoy playing with others. They want to get together, and it’s a natural for Friends of the
Arts to help facilitate that.”

Those interested are being asked to submit their names and a description of their musical skills, along with group dues,
to Friends of the Arts, which will create a directory from the submissions. While there are no plans for the
group beyond the directory at this point, McKelway said anything is possible. “It could lead to trips together, or get-togethers
to play, or maybe a community orchestra,” she said. “We'll just have to see what the members really want.”

For more information, contact McKelway at 892-2116.

Price Continued from page 1

Price’s latest novel is typical of Price’s previous works in that he explores how people deal with crisis. This book
portrays the life of a father who has fallen in love with a sixteen-year-old, and then relates his feelings to
his granddaughter.

In 1984, Price was diagnosed with spinal cancer. Despite his illness, Price continued to write, finishing his most commercially successful
novel, “Kate Vaiden,” only two years later. In his novels, Price attempts to highlight and express pieces of Southern culture
which persist despite the modernization of the South. He explains, “You can ride thirty minutes from the heart of Atlanta
and be in country and with people very similar to those who lived there 50 years ago. They’ve got television,
running water, and lights, but their values are still old-fashioned and rural.”

In summing up his method of writing, Price said, “I don’t try to judge anyone; I’m not here to make
arrests. It’s really rather simple - the sort of novel I’m interested in is one that tries to understand the
world.”

The event was jointly sponsored by Davidson, the UNC-Chapel Hill School of Medicine’s Office of Continuing Medical Education, and the
Charlotte Area Health Education Center. The Colloquium featured a dinner followed by a speech given by Dr. Carl Cohen on
Thursday evening, followed by four speakers on Friday. The colloquium ended with a faculty-participant dialogue in which all the speakers
discussed the “Practical Aspects of The Access, Cost, and Quality Interface.”

In the keynote address Thursday evening, Dr. Carl Cohen, professor of philosophy at the University of Michigan, spoke on the
question of whether the right to health care exists. Dr. Cohen began his talk by stating that the question “Is
there a right to health care?” must be divided into three separate questions: is there a right to healthcare, who
holds that right, and what are the benefits of that right.

Cohen then defined what rights actually are. He said that rights are claims or potential claims by agents against some
party. Cohen said that rights can come from laws, moral relations, or a moral code. Cohen said that natural rights
were ones that seemed to be derived from a moral viewpoint, as opposed to legislative rights, such as the right
to a trial by jury, which are the result of laws.

Finally, Cohen clarified the difference between negative rights and positive rights. Cohen said that most of our rights are negative
rights, that is, they are to be free of some hindrance, or, in other words, the liberty to choose for
ourselves. Health care would be a positive right, meaning that if it were made a right it would have to
be provided to all those entitled to receive such benefits.

Next, Cohen stated that the real argument is not really about rights but about...Access to health care. Cohen said that
the question is then one of justice, or making sure that health care is available to all those entitled. He
said that the real argument changes from whether or not there is a right to health care to whether or
not we want to create the right to health care. Finally, Cohen said that there are several precautions that need
to be discussed and understood before the right to health care is established. First, if the right to health care
is established, we must be prepared to pay for it. Cohen said that it would be very, very expensive, and
this must be recognized, because once the right is granted, it can’t be taken away. Next, Cohen said that the
costs will involve more than money. There will also be the cost of delivering care to those who live where
there is not easy access to it. Further, there may have to be a reduction in the freedoms of health
care professionals in choosing where they will work and even of consumers in their freedom to choose where they receive
their health care.

Another precaution that must be examined is defining what is the content of the right. Should it be the right
to everything, most, or just some of the many types of care that can be provided? Will there be a
limit to how much of these types of care to which each person is entitled? Cohen feels that these are
the most difficult questions to be answered in the debate over health care. Further, Cohen felt that those who will
be paying the bill for health care will be likely to insist that those who claim their right do their
share to protect their health. This could lead to further intrusion into other rights. For example, will restrictions be placed
on smoking, alcohol use, eating habits, and lifestyle? Cohen expressed concern that creating a right to health care may cause
a loss of other freedoms.

Cohen’s final warning was that the implementation of a right to health care would change the relationship between doctors and
patients to an adversarial role, where doctors would become targets of claims by patients. Cohen admitted that while this would
probably be mainly a change in perception, it could cause problems in the future. In concluding his remarks, Cohen stated
that health care would be a positive right, and that the main argument in the debate over it should center
on the content of it and whether or not it should be granted.
