THE DAVIDSONIAN - NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

Chet Brings Taste of France to Depot Street
By Yvette Pita

Henri Ducluzeau was only eighteen years old when he won an apprenticeship in Les Trois Faisans, one of the top
restaurants in France in 1928. Now, at 77, he is the head chef of his family-operated restaurant with the same
name located on Depot Street across from the Davidson College computer center. He works surrounded by his family: his wife,
Lusa, his 22-year-old son, Lionel, and Lionel’s fiancée, Inga Rudin.

Entering the restaurant, it is hard not to notice several honorary culinary certificates that indicate that he has been a
member of Chevaliers du Tastevin (a brotherhood of wine tasters), the French Culinary Academy, and the Commaderie des Cordons Bleu.
According to his son, Lionel, “He has several others, but he doesn’t want to put them up.”

One senses Henri’s family connection as his son sits next to him and helps him with his English while he
begins the story of his life. Lusa continues to serve the customers. The depth of Henri’s eyes reveals his history
and strong character. His story begins in France with his apprenticeship at Les Trois Faisans. Henri later became the youngest
chef with twenty others below him at another restaurant in Besancon. By the age of twenty, he was the head
chef at the palace in Chamonix located in the Alps.

In 1940, at the age of 22, Henri was sent by the Culinary Society of Paris to be the executive
chef of the Regina Hotel in Mont D’Or. He chuckles as he says, “When I arrived, the manager said, ‘You’re
not the chef! You’re a boy. We’ll make you an assistant, and call the Society tomorrow.’” As Henri sits back
in his seat, he continues, “He gave me a hard time, and tried to make me prepare difficult desserts, but
I was able to do them.” He then adds, “And we didn’t have those frozen things we have today.”

During World War II, Henri owned a restaurant-hotel called Le Lion d’Or. “In 1942, I was arrested by the Gestapo...”
Lionel adds, “...because he was a member of the resistance.” Henri continues, “I was told not to talk or I
would be shot. I was also badly beaten. You can still see some of the marks on my left knee.”
Henri was under house arrest for 300 and a half months before he sold his restaurant ten days before General
Gavin stormed the beaches at Normandy and freed France. Shortly after he gained his freedom, his wife became ill. “She
developed breast cancer, and passed away.” Lionel touched his father’s arm. Henri paused a moment and continued.

After serving as the executive chef at another hotel, Henri was notified that he would be moving to Washington D.C.
to work at the French Embassy during the Atlantic Pact Treaty. At 31, he left the embassy to work at
the Chevy Chase Country Club where he served 600 to 700 government officials every night as the head chef. “Can
you believe it? My first assistant was a 65-year-old German. And one night, I served General Gavin.” Henri and his
son laugh at the irony.

However, Henri was not satisfied with the jobs in D.C. “I wanted to know New York, and further my education.”
So Henri worked in New York for two years as the first vice-president at The Vatel Club. He then worked
for the Campbell Soup company in New Jersey for six years. He was not getting paid very much, but he
was using the opportunity to further his education. Henri lifts his hand as if he were taking a pledge and
smiles as he says, “I promise, my English used to be worse.”

When Henri was 44 years old, he became the chief steward on a French ship, the S.S. Independence, for two
years. He then became the traveling food supervisor for the InterContinental Hotel. He met Lusa when he opened a restaurant
in a hotel in Montevideo, Uruguay. His son explains, “After he left, one of his friends wrote to him telling
him that he wanted to ask Lusa out, but she said she was waiting for Henri Ducluzeau. So my father
started writing her, and even proposed to her through the mail.”

Henri then moved on to be the food supervisor for the cruise line Royal Caribbean. His son adds, “Those were
the years that Royal Caribbean had the #1 food service for cruise lines in the world.” These were also the
years that Lionel was born in Miami. Years later, Henri moved back to France and became a wine consultant until
he retired. Bored with his retirement, he decided to move back to the U.S. and open up a new restaurant.
Why did he choose Davidson? He likes it. Henri says there is less pollution here, and “the water tastes better.”

So Henri Ducluzeau opened a restaurant in Davidson, NC where he cooks all of the lunches and dinners. Les Trois
Faisans ties his life together by binding his job and family.

Off-Campus Continued from page 2

The committee is to locate the problems and then work with the Town Manager, Mr. Brice, to set up guidelines
for noise and alcohol. If the complaints persist, Rust feels that the town could “pass really strict ordinances and make
living off campus a pain in the ass.”

Matt Dormer, resident of North Thompson Street, holds Davidson College somewhat responsible for the recent difficulties. “The social scene at
Davidson is like a pressure cooker. Because the school turned up the heat by clamping down on alcohol use and
parties, more steam, i.e. student frustration, will inevitably spill into the surrounding community.” Speaking about his residence on behalf of
his roommates, Dormer...Mer offered assurances that any and all unruly activity which could disturb the other residents of North Thompson
will cease. His family. He is the definition of tradition and takes enormous pride in his work. When he finishes
telling about all of the places he has been and worked, Henri winks and says, “I used to be a
good cook.”

Recycle Students Continued from page

the entire black population. Generally speaking, Hinson often feels “isolated, angry, and a significant burden” as one of the few
black students on campus. John Eaves, the assistant Dean of Students, believes that a majority of the problem involves the
“lack of a critical mass” of black students and faculty. These students come from a large variety of backgrounds and
might not become friends had they gone to predominantly black institutions. Yet at Davidson, the black students tend to seek
each other out for a sense of cultural identity. Another large contributor to the dissatisfaction follows from the overall environment
which does not tend to be conducive to minority concerns. Eaves also sees the small number of African Americans on
campus as a discouraging factor for prospectives; this creates a cycle which hinders potential growth of minorities’ numbers on campus.

Although the Admissions Office actively recruits black high school students, there continues to be difficulty finding students who are capable
of benefitting from the Davidson education, according to Bob Douthit, Associate Dean of Admissions. Once the qualified black students are
identified, Davidson must compete with other highly selective schools for their enrollment. When the prospective student asks Dean Douthit about
life at Davidson for African Americans, Douthit does not “sugarcoat” the situation, rather he claims black students are faced with
a double challenge; they must face the exceptional workload, as well as the lack of social outlets. Douthit realizes that
more black students would attract more black prospectives but that this creates a catch-22 situation where “the tiger is chasing
its own tail.”

“Time for actions, not words.” According to Hinson, the black population at Davidson has dropped as many as 20 students
since he was a freshman and he foresees the possibility of another two African Americans leaving after this semester. He
has witnessed occasional improvements such as the creation of Alpha Phi Alpha, a historically black fraternity. Hinson, though, still believes
that there are not enough black students to fight the pervading ignorance at Davidson; Hinson specifies that by “black” he
means “those who can readily identify with the black experience in America.” He emphasized that “the BSC is not closed
for black students only; white students can attend events and be members if they feel they can identify or want
to identify.”

Anthony Foxx, SGA President, continues to promote a move to integrate the campus rather than to continue to compartmentalize the
problem. Foxx would like to see African American issues discussed in current courses from history to psychology. He feels that
the liberal arts education would be most beneficial to all students if it were applied to everyday life. Demographic studies
now estimate that eventually African Americans will be the majority of the American population and Foxx believes the Davidson education
should prepare students for interaction with all cultures. “Now is the time for action, not for words,” Foxx said. He
sees the changes made as a result of past task forces and committee reports as “only decorations, such as the
additional black faculty, the ethnic studies concentration, and BSC house.”

The development of relationships between individuals from different cultural backgrounds might help people become more culturally sensitive, according to Clark
Ross, an economics professor who has been at Davidson for twelve years. He plays a key role in the Second
Family program which matches black Davidson students with a professor to foster relationships outside of academics. Dean Eaves also encouraged
individual efforts beyond the superficial. “How are your classes?” He asked, “How many students have genuine friendships with black students?”

“Davidson’s task at this point requires conquering the complacency of the majority,” said junior Alden Smith, “but it is one
thing to recognize the problem and another to be part of the solution.” Smith regrets that Davidson still maintains a
sense of exclusiveness that does not allow African American students to feel comfortable. The solution involves all students making a
conscious effort to participate in events that might increase their understanding of another culture. “It is a tragedy that black
students often feel that they are sacrificing four years at Davidson, so that they might succeed later, when I value
my college years as four of the best of my life,” said Smith.

---

PIE IN THE SKY PIZZA
HAND ROLLED AND TOSSED NEW YORK STYLE PIZZA
WE SERVE A MEDIUM-THICK CRUST OR EXTRA-THICK CRUST, LET US KNOW WHEN YOU ORDER WE'LL BE GLAD TO ACCOMMODATE YOU.
Sandwiches, Beer & More!
FREE DELIVERY (orders of four or more pizzas, only)
135-2 N. Main St, 663-7189
IF YOU PREFER A THIN CRUST

---

1890 HOUSE
PIZZA & ITALIAN CUISINE
259 S. BROAD ST. MOORESVILLE, NC 28115
(704) 664-1210
RESERVE YOUR CHRISTMAS PARTY NOW!
Open Wednesday-Saturday 5:00-Until

HAVE A BIRTHDAY?
Dinner is on us, with an I.D.
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY ONLY

BUY ONE ENTREE GET 2nd 1/2 PRICE: ALL YOU CAN EAT! BUFFALO WINGS
1 Per Table • Eat In Only • Expires 11/27/92
Includes Italian Bread & Salad $8.95
