8 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

-Davidsonian Interview: Bob McKillop

D: The first and most obvious thing that comes to mind with this year’s team is the seven freshmen. What kind of role do you expect each of the guys to play, and what kind of contribution do you expect them to make?

M: Perhaps the great thing about this mix of veterans and freshmen is that the veterans that are in the program are established veterans, in terms of experience, minutes they’ve played, and success they’ve had. And when you throw three or four freshmen into the fire without that support base of a veteran group, it makes it difficult. This is the first time since I’ve been here that the freshmen will be cast into roles, supported by a veteran group that is talented and experienced. So I think that’s the first statement you can make about the freshmen. It’s not going to be on their shoulders as it has been in the process of trying to build the program. As far as what role they will play, we’ve got a terrific degree of athleticism, very good size, and an energized group. They really want to be here, they’re proud to be here, they’re honored to be here, and they’re playing like they want to be here. And you’ve got one or more at each position, so it gives us great versatility.

D: At what positions do you see each of the freshmen?

M: I see Matt Grieser and Chris Alpert as point guards. I see Frantisek Babka as having the ability to handle the point in certain situations, certainly be a shooting guard, and maybe be in Janko [Narat]'s spot, the swing spot. I see Jeff Anderson being able to play the shooting guard as well as the swing spot. I see Brandon Williams being able to play the 3-spot [swing forward] and the 4-spot [big forward] and defensively even the 2-spot [off-guard]. I see Quinn Harwood in the role of point forward, being able to play 1 [point guard], 2, 3, or 4 offensively, and defensively probably 4 and 5 [center]. And I would say that Mark [McGuire] would be primarily a 5-man but you never know. With Detlef [Musch] or George [Spain] in the game, he might be able to play some 4.

D: Who do you see at the point right now?

M: We’re committed to Jason Zimmerman. Jason will start at the point. We have confidence in him. He’s been a great leader. He has worked feverishly during the summer. I think he’s got the confidence. He certainly should feel the confidence from us, and in my mind he’s ready to take on that role. And he’s not inexperienced there. He played about six minutes a game as a freshman at the point. Last year he played about 10 minutes a game at the point. So you’re putting a junior on the court with two years starting experience, plus 16 minutes a game point guard experience.

D: Last year’s team had a style that was predicated on aggressive half-court defense and motion offense. With the influx of athletic ability in this freshman class, do you plan to expand that to a full-court defense and more fast breaking than you’ve done in the past?

M: I don’t know that we’re as athletic across the board, from the 1-spot to the 5-spot, as we need to be if we’re going to extend the court. So to extend the court defensively right now is not in our plan. We will play a very aggressive half-court defense. We'll try to mix it up a little bit more than we did in the past. So we’re going to try to use intelligence as a factor, as our edge, much more so than athleticism on the defensive end. We have really become very sensitive to the need for us to become aggressive defensively. So aggression and intelligence will probably be the two hallmarks of our defense. At least, that’s what we’re working towards. From an offensive standpoint, we like our ability to shoot the three-pointer and we like our ability to score on the blocks. What we’d like to do is run the break, the primary break, run the secondary break, shoot the three-pointer with license. We have people who can slash to the basket and we have people who can post up, so we’re going to try to score in an extraordinary number of ways. And we hope that the aggressive and intelligence factors carry over, so that we’re going to the foul line more, we’re not hesitant about shooting the three, we’re not hesitant about going to the hole.

D: One of the things that people are going to notice first about this team is that [last year’s starting point guard] Frank Harris isn’t here. What happened with him and why is he not back?

M: Frank had a terrific freshman year for us. He was successful as a point guard, even though that was not his position as a high school player. But he willingly accepted that role and did a great job. Frank and I spoke in March and April of last year, and we talked about his comfort at the point spot. He said he’d like to play the 2-guard spot, and I said, ‘That’s fine with me because that would be ideal for you since you are a scorer and you have a scorer’s mentality.’ I said, ‘You just have to work on your three-point shooting.’ He worked extremely hard in March and April and prior to exams on his three-point shooting in the gym by himself, and seemed committed to really accepting that role, still understanding that I would call on him to play some point as well, to make him more of a combo guard. He left here in May at the end of exams, talked about getting the message about Davidson through the streets of New York, and the various playgrounds of New York, and seemed very excited. I was at the Southern Conference meetings at the end of May, and got a call that Frank had asked to be released from his scholarship. And it was pretty— not pretty, it was very, very surprising. After a week or so of talking with Frank and trying to find out the reasons for his decision to leave— he didn’t even say he wanted to leave, he said he wanted to look around, to shop around, those were his words, ‘I want to shop around.’ After two weeks of this, we spoke almost every day, Frank said,‘Coach, I’ve decided that Davidson is the best place for me. I’m coming back. You can trust me.’ I think that was around June 2, 3, or 4. And we spoke on a weekly basis from that conversation in June throughout the whole month of June, and each time he reassured me he was coming back. Finally, on July 7 or 8, Frank decided he was going to leave. I believe the reason for it is that Frank had a great year. Frank believes he is a Big East-caliber player, and Frank wants to get to play at that level. And in order to play at that level, it is perhaps his belief that to concentrate on academics the way you must concentrate on academics here might interfere with that mission—to be a Big East and eventually NBA player. And I don’t think he was willing to sacrifice that, and that’s why he decided to leave.

D: Does the attrition rate concern you?

M: Obviously, when you lose players it concerns you. When you lose young men who are very fine young men it concerns you. But Davidson is a challenging place academically, athletically, and socially. Not everyone is custom-designed or fit to come to Davidson. And when you’re out recruiting, because of the recruiting restrictions and limitations, you don’t get to know those players as well as you would like, not only as players but as people and as students. So when people come here and see the many challenges that Davidson presents, sometimes that, to them, becomes frustrating. We can go down the players that left. Franco Ferroni loved it here. That was no fault of ours, no decision of ours that Franco left. And Franco, to this day, calls me every two weeks to see how things are and tells me how much he wishes he could be here. That was the NCAA. James Marsh left because he was offered a very attractive pro contract and felt that he could still continue his education in Germany and play pro basketball. So I don’t see that we can really do anything about that. That happens everywhere. Scott Alford left because he felt that he was not talented enough to play at this level, and that’s why he’s at a Division II school. And again, with Scott, Scott felt that the academic challenges were something that he was not interested in following through with. Pat Holloway left because of the social situation here. It was a very difficult experience for an urban kid from Denver, Colorado, and that’s why he left. And Frank Harris left because he wanted to play at a higher level of basketball. We have lost players, and I suspect every institution goes through this. Clifford Rozier and someone else left [North] Carolina two years ago. Duke lost Christian Ast, Duke lost Billy McCaffrey, Duke lost Crawford Palmer. So schools that are in our neighborhood have lost players as well. But I think it’s a special kind of student who can succeed here, and sometimes you can’t always gauge that in a four-time evaluation which the NCAA restricts us to.

D: What kind of roles do you see the returning guys filling?

M: Well, every one of them has had starting experience and minutes experience. The primary function of the veterans has to be to set the standard defensively. I think that’s the most difficult aspect of the transition from high school basketball to college basketball—the adjustment to defense. And however those guys have been able to adjust has determined their playing minutes. Janko has become a better defender, Detlef has become a better defender, J.D. has become a better defender, George and Ronald have become better defenders. They all can score, there’s no doubt about that, but it’s going to be primarily a function of how well they can handle the defensive responsibilities that will determine what role they fill.

D: The schedule this year, with the move to the Southern Conference, is as hard as it’s been since you’ve been here. You begin with three games [St. Joseph’s of Maine, Tennessee Temple, and Lynchburg] that are much easier than the rest. Give me your philosophy on that and your thoughts on the rest of the schedule:

M: The NCAA has mandated that we start November 1, which immediately knocks out two weeks of practice time. So we’re constricted now from a six-week program to a four-week process. When you bring seven new faces on board, the learning process is somewhat slow. You have to go slower, you have to spend some time on some things that the veterans have already picked up. Our sense was that we cannot afford to, on December 2, play a Big East team or an ACC team, or a Southeastern Conference team. We needed to get our veterans some confidence. They’re coming off winning four of their last five games, still questioning whether or not they can be successful, but now having the experience and perhaps the confidence of maybe pushing themselves into that barrier where they believe they can be winners. And we had to get our freshmen as much experience as possible. So for the combination of confidence and experience, we decided that, let’s take those first two weeks of December, and see if we could provide an experience that’s going to allow us to use freshmen plus build our veterans’ confidence. And that’s why we did not play the Big East teams or the ACC teams, the so-called marquee teams, early in that December time period. It’s a chance for us to experiment, to get our feet wet, and to see if the decision we’ve made with shooting the three-pointer is the one that we’d like to be able to maintain throughout the year.

D: The consensus among preseason polls and magazines has been that Davidson will finish deep in the second division of the conference. Obviously, the Southern Conference is a step up from the Big South. What do you expect from the Southern this year?

M: We welcome the opportunity to be an underdog. I respond when people tell me that we’re not good enough or we can’t do it. I like that challenge. The media and so-called experts and even the coaches in the conference that picked us ninth or tenth in the various polls pick us based upon our previous performance, and our previous performance indicates that we would struggle in the Southern Conference. Yet, I think there are some...

See "McKillop" on page 11.