THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

Depth! Relevance!

Let it Snow, Let it Snow, Won't You Just Please Let it Snow

It snowed back home once—actually, more than once, but it’s snowed so close to once back home that I feel entitled to that modifier—and then half-melted and then refroze and Ted wanted to go sledding. Ted was a questionable character. Slight, blond, and sinister, he exhibited by the age of eleven a vivifying inclination to call Mother Nature to the carpet, to confront the Elemental, to, at the risk of introducing what should be a cliché, Sled On Ice Down A Narrow Sidewalk Slap Into A 4-Way Stop.

To reiterate, things melted and refroze. The walkway running alongside the steepest hill in the neighborhood offered up a translucent, frictionless plank to the waxed runners of Ted’s flexible flyer; and Ted was maniacal. He once, just for the hell of it, removed all four nuts from the bolts which held the wheels on his bicycle and took off downhill, wondering how long it would take things to unfasten. We worshipped Ted; and several of us walked onto the plank and fell down just to demonstrate how deliciously slick everything was. There were hats and gloves in the audience, some mittens; we all sported surprisingly puffy coats which might have elicited an easy feeling of conscientious warmth in a viewer had our gathering been a painting, though we, in the time-honored tradition of Southerners in the presence of frozen water, remained quite cold.

Ted wore shorts—his cut-off corduroys—one-time maroon creations that had faded into a sort of tired-out earth tone. He wore high-top Keds (no socks), a long underwear top which he found unspeakably cool, and an old Atlanta Braves plastic, blue and white, ugly, useless in any situation involving impact, and fake batting helmet on which he had painted slogans like “Brain Bucket,” “Contents Flammable,” and “KISS are people too.” But his favorite accessory by far, one which he was never without in a moment of glory, was what he called his ‘Bert Shirt. His parents, ex-hippies turned I can’t remember what, but they weren’t hippies anymore, had given this shirt to their son I think to evoke the unhinged gates of their minds for their repressed neighbors. It consisted of a white t-shirt with a picture of Albert Einstein’s head (or at least his hair, I definitely remember that hair in motion when the front wheel finally did come off) emblazoned on the front and a quote on the back that read something like, “Throughout history great spirits have always suffered opposition from mediocre minds.”

I sometimes wonder if Ted’s parents didn’t regret their choice as their son’s eyes suggested a downward glance when they asked him where he was going with that toolbox, that sled-wax, that thing which usually belonged to them. Ted turned his batting helmet backwards. Several who watched touched their woolen knit hats with their hands. I know I fingered the tiny shag pom-pom attached to the top of my own head and the hairs on my neck stiffened. Ted locked his bare hands onto the boards three-quarters up the length of his flyer.

Beyond Birkenstock: Craziness In Memphis, Hard Luck Stories

From Now, some of you might be thinking, “Hey, where were the Birks last weekend?” And it is true that for a period of about three days, we were unable to fulfill our numerous social commitments. The court probably seemed a little bit duller, the Pterodactyl Club a little bit emptier without our winsome personalities. Oh, well... there’s always next weekend.

No, in fact, that period was our chance to get away, as it were, and reflect on what a boring mob of Crew-clad cretins you guys really are. OK, we’ll guess, what did ya’ll do this weekend... drink beer and hook? Yep, we thought so. Well, we got drunk and hooked WITH WOMEN in the home of the Blues (and you thought this dump was givin’ you the Blues). That’s right, Memphis. The Jewel of Ole Man River. For the mathematicians among you, that’s about 620 hard miles of road between Cornelius and the delta. There, aren’t you impressed?

This was what the beer-swilling frat boys call a road trip and what we called a sojourn. Rising from the early morning mist of western Tennessee we found a city of such decadence and sin they should have called it Gomorrah. Really though, there was a movie theater with 44 screens right down the street from our hotel. Opportunities like that only come once in a lifetime and we managed to see every one of those films even though the theaters themselves were tiny and (trust us) you don’t want to touch the walls.

And speaking of our hotel. Perhaps you’ve heard of the Historic Peabody Hotel (that “historic” thing always gets tacked on, something like the “historic” Carter/Sadat/Begin debacle). Well, they charged “historic” prices, like it was still the eighties or something. Can you believe, 184 bucks a night for a room? Lucky the Davidsonian credit card was just laying there last Friday; sure was nice of you suckers to subsidize our sojourn. In fact, the opulence of the rooms and impeccable service disgusted us. So, as an act of rebellion, we’ll call him Dave T., for lack of a more appropriate name. Dave T. came up to us on the street (right outside of the Historic Peabody) and asked us for two to three dollars, American, to which we refer.of solidarity with the oppressed study class (that’s you), we got a room at the historic (no capitals here) Day’s Inn across the street. Look, ma... free towels! It was just as good as Belk, and we had our very own bathroom to puke in.

J. Kyle Kinner & Seth J. McLaughlin. Rum Boogie Café; that is, we saw them as we walked by because neither of them would let us in since we were underage. So, we wound up going to this sorry college bar (they were happy to serve us Cokes) that reminded us of KA except the music was even worse (if you can believe that). In other words, Davidson’s white, Duckhead-wearing, Jim Beam-swilling, Southern Rock culture isn’t just an isolated example of bad taste, it’s a universal kind of thing!

Oh, yeah... forgot to mention the superlative police department there in the Delta’s Jewel. As we arrived Saturday morning (you were still lost in hangover hell), a gentleman was being removed from the historic Day’s Inn for some slight infraction of the criminal code. We're sure he didn’t really mean to break into that liquor store. So the Memphis blues were kind enough to station eleven police cruisers in the middle of the 4%*& street, right outside the &($& hotel parking garage so we had to park on the %$*& street. Speaking of Memphis’ finest (we guess)... apparently they have undercover bums to go out and harass the regular, wine-swilling uh, well... “economically challenged” folks.

Now, before you go call us a bunch of “sensitivity challenged miscreants,” we’d just like to mention one shining example of this genre currency. We should mention that every business establishment in Memphis has little cards that proclaim something to the effect that the city provides enough shelter and food to those who seek it. Their advice, “Don’t give away money.” Normally, “don’t give away money” is advice well taken, but in the case of someone potentially starving or freezing (and it was cold), it seems a little harsh. So, we thought it particularly kind of Memphis to provide this comprehensive crisis relief; only Dave T. apparently didn’t need a night at the shelter. So, he tried the honest approach. According to Dave, he wanted money to get drunk, and two dollars would about do it. Well, who can deny an honest man a drink? So, of course, we gave him the two bucks. Besides, we had to.

Now, in case you’re thinking that this city is the center of moral decadence (we know we were; that’s why we compared it to Gomorrah earlier), let us assure you the Christian element was out in force. In fact, we saw what appeared to be Hazel Motes on Beale St. bearing his cross (literally). In fact, for a second there we could have sworn that we were in Huston’s version of Wise Blood. The town was replete with old cars (which, by the way, if they’re good preclude one from justification), and people running around in gorilla suits. Fortunately, Dave T. arrived just in time to convince us that we were, in fact, in Memphis by asking us if we could spare some more change. We wish we could say we gave Dave enough money to move into a nice house, get a good car, put his 2.3 kids through college, and get a job at Graceland, but what do you think we are, the Federal Reserve? So, we just gave him another buck and let Uncle Sam take care of him on the deficit. All in all, however, Dave T. was a much more enjoyable conversation partner than the moralizing lot on Beale St.

Having had a full night (we also went to see Elvis and MLK’s memorial), we went back to our hotel, took in some live Jazz, and went to bed; it had been a day of adventure and wonder along the Mighty Mississip’ and we were exhausted. Now you may have noticed that we left out the details of our getting drunk and hooking up. Well, OK! We admit it; some gumbo we ate was the nearest thing to a stiff drink we had and the only woman we talked to was our waitress. The next morning, we left. However, we departed Memphis with the satisfaction of having seen the Civil Rights Museum at the Lorraine Hotel, Graceland, Beale St., the Historic Peabody, the Great American Pyramid, lots of boring roads, 44 movies each without a real plot, the arrest of one individual, one really big antique store with a lot of headboards (some of which were apparently famous for certain infidelities they witnessed), the people who make the Bible Belt what it is, and one honest man, Dave T. All in all, if it came down to destroying either Davidson or Memphis, you guys better not hold your breath. And, rest assured, we wouldn’t be looking back! We’d go straight to Graceland, Memphis, Tennessee!