THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

Lilly Continued from page 1

their possession. They came to the front door of the SAE house and asked if they could come inside. Since self-selection is a closed event at most Patterson Court houses, including SAE, a brother near the door told them they should not come inside. Eventually, they persuaded him to allow them to “pass through.” Once inside, the women were caught in the action taking place among the members of SAE. Some water, which was being thrown on various brothers and freshmen, was also thrown on them. The floor was extremely slippery and, during the course of events, the two women and two SAEs fell to the floor. After the women got up, they decided to leave the house. I did not see these women when they were in the house, so I cannot faithfully report any further on exactly what happened. Regardless of what happened while the girls were inside the SAE house, they felt intimidated and the house currently is talking about the event in a hope to find out exactly what happened.

The second allegation stated that a visiting student from Wake Forest “got into a fight with a group at SAE... and as a result of the fight was hospitalized and has suffered permanent damage to his vision.” This statement continued, “A representative from SAE visited him in the hospital in an effort to avoid legal proceedings.” In actuality, a group of men came to the SAE house that night from Wake Forest. At the start of the party, they were seen shooting off a fire extinguisher and breaking bottles in the road in front of the SAE house. Two SAEs, on their way to the party, passed by and asked them to stop. The Wake Forest students were described as being extremely intoxicated. Later that evening, inside the party, a Wake Forest student hit a sophomore SAE in the face. Another wrestled a junior SAE to the floor. They were told that fighting was not permitted on the grounds and to go outside if they had a problem. The campus police were called at this time. Outside, things escalated and punches were thrown on both sides. One Wake Forest student was hit in the eye. He was driven to the hospital by an SAE pledge. I know the Wake Forest student who was hit because he lives a block from me in Raleigh, North Carolina. We have known one another since grade school. I called him Sunday evening and spoke candidly with him in an effort to find out exactly what happened. Neither of us ever mentioned legal proceedings nor have they been mentioned since. He saw a doctor in Raleigh on Tuesday and his eye was said to be fine. His father is not interested in pursuing legal action over the incident. All of the visiting men were in the same fraternity at Wake Forest. At the time of the visit, they were on probation at Wake Forest for fighting.

The third element of the letter states that an SAE “has been making repeated harassing and threatening phone calls to an African American student since last semester.” There was in fact one phone call placed to this student and no more. The student has confirmed this with a member of the SAE house. It was the call to which I referred earlier.

The fourth point made in this letter refers to a threat that allegedly occurred to the same aforementioned student: “[Threatening] him with a gang assault with baseball bats.” The person who allegedly said this reports that he never said anything of the sort and that he and the student have never exchanged harsh words.

The last charge made in the letter was that the members of Rusk House, Kappa Alpha Order, and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity “have banned SAE members from their house functions.” At present, none of these houses are practicing such allegations.

Before the letter closes, it refers to "anonymous and harassing posters... on campus attacking the Davidson chapter of F.L.A.G.” While the letter does not say it in specific terms, the insinuation is that SAEs were responsible for these posters.Last semester SAE voted in favor of the establishment of a F.L.A.G. chapter. In a lecture this semester on the myth of Christopher Columbus, A.T. Miller said, “How are we to react, what are we to do? A myth endorses belief. To put aside the myth is to take on a different view of the future.” Sigma Alpha Epsilon, despite what present events may lead you to think, is currently and has always been extremely active in its pursuit of bettering Davidson College. Every other week for the past ten years SAE brothers and Warner Hall women have driven to a retirement home in Huntersville to sing with the people who live there. In its eleventh year, the SAE Charity Calendar has raised over $40,000 for the E.H. Little Library. That is enough money to provide the library with approximately 80 new books every year. It is the only Endowed Book Fund established by a fraternity or eating house. Three years ago, Davidson’s chapter of SAE was the first fraternity in the nation to sponsor the Time to Read program for potential middle school and high school dropouts. The program had such a high degree of success that it has since been expanded to incorporate the entire Davidson student body. SAE also has been the top money-raising house for the SGA Phonathon since its establishment in 1981. In addition, seven brothers, almost 15% of the fraternity, either have been or are currently Hall Counselors. One of this year’s defense advisors for the Honor Council was an SAE. One of next year’s is as well. The Most Valuable Defensive Player on this year’s Davidson football team is a pledge at SAE. Though we are proud of our involvement with the college, we still recognize the fact that we are by no means perfect. Individuals within our house have made mistakes this year. Likewise, the house as a whole has made mistakes this year. We are not asking that you overlook them, nor are we asking that you turn your head and forget. We are asking that you, as members of the Davidson College Family, work with us to restore Patterson Court and the College as a whole to the way it is intended to be. Fraternities and Eating Houses exist for the benefit and enjoyment of all the students. It is our distinct desire to help keep it that way.

Steven Clay Lilly ‘92

---

It can help you organize your notes, design your party flyer, finish your class project before spring break. The new Apple Macintosh Classic II computer makes it easier for you to juggle classes, activities, projects, and term papers—and still find time for what makes college life real life. It’s a complete and affordable Macintosh Classic system that’s ready to help you get your work finished fast. It’s a snap to set up and use. It has a powerful 68030 microprocessor, which means you can run even the most sophisticated applications with ease. Among its many built-in capabilities is the internal Apple SuperDrive disk drive that reads from and writes to Macintosh and MS-DOS formatted disks—allowing you to exchange information easily with almost any other kind of computer. If you already own a Macintosh Classic, and want the speed and flexibility of a Macintosh Classic II, ask us about an upgrade—it can be installed in a matter of minutes and it’s affordable. To make more time for your personal life, get a Macintosh Classic II for your personal space. See us for a demonstration today, and while you're in, be sure to ask us for details about the Apple Computer Loan. It’ll be time well spent.

For further information visit Computer Services Center. Contact Ellen Maine at x2432.

©1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks and SuperDrive is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. This ad was created using Macintosh computers.