16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

‘THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW’

With Carol Jordan, director of Davidson's Career Planning and Placement Center

By David Thompson

Carol Jordan, director of Davidson’s Career Planning and Placement Center, spent a few minutes last week to discuss how the office works, as well as to offer some suggestions for students attempting to break into the job market.

Davidsonian: With the recession hanging so ominously over our heads, how can Davidson’s graduating seniors break into the limited job market? In your opinion, what are the best paths to take toward securing interviews and, hopefully, job offers?

Jordan: I think a person has to know what he or she wants. If you go into a market like this one, where the competition just for interviews is so intense, you really have to do a lot of homework about who you are and what you have to offer, as well as on the organization and what they might have for you. There are only a few people who are going to get interviews. What we have seen with the on-campus placement program is companies who are willing to accept resumes so that they can pre-screen for the students they would like to interview. If they find enough people, then they come to Davidson and interview. That shows me that the market is very competitive. In past years, we’ve just allowed seniors to sign up for any interview they want. Companies would come here and interview all day, offering second interviews to the best candidates. Recruiters want to pre-screen now, and that makes it all the more difficult to get your foot in the door. The resume has to be excellent. You’ve got to package yourself well, which means you have to know your strengths, and how to get those across, and you have to know whether what you have to offer is a good match with what an employer needs. You need to do a lot of work up front in order to break into the job market arena. I think informational interviewing is also very important. You should talk to people that are working in the particular field where you want to work. Ask them who you should talk to if you want a job in their organization. Find out if personnel is the best place to go, or if you should see a department head. Ask whether your credentials make you a serious competitor, or if you need to do something else before even approaching this employer. If you’re going to try to get a job right after Davidson, I think you need to package yourself well, and do the informational interviewing.

Davidsonian: You mentioned recruiters coming to campus. There haven’t been very many here this year. Is the Careers Office lobbying for more people to come here, or do we wait for firms to come to us?

Jordan: The Careers Office does actively seek companies and organizations to come to Davidson. We begin, usually, in April or May of each year to write letters, make calls and to go visit organizations which we think would be interested in liberal arts graduates. We always call upon the old faithfuls, the organizations who traditionally come to Davidson. Generally, a letter to them will generate a call from them asking to set a date in January or February. With others, those who are unsure of liberal arts graduates, or who may not know Davidson as a college, or those who don’t know if they will even have openings, we try to get them to look at packages of resumes from seniors, so that they can see what Davidson students have to offer. We then follow up with those organizations, hoping that they will eventually come to campus. Davidson College is very similar to schools like Sewanee, Williams, Westminster, and Wesleyan in the number of recruiters who come to campus. Sometimes our students don’t understand that. They compare us to Wake Forest, or to UNC-Chapel Hill, or to UNC-Charlotte. They’ll see 250 recruiters going to UNC-C, and think that the 35-50 who come to Davidson each year is very few. It is, if you compare us to a university with so many more majors offered and graduate degree programs. But when you compare us to other four-year liberal arts colleges of our size, we are doing very well. In fact, we surpass the other colleges of our size in North Carolina for recruiters coming to campus. That’s not to say that I don’t want more people to come here, I do, and we’re constantly working on that, but with a job market that’s so tight, and with lots of unemployed people, plus lots of people with experience who have been laid off because of downsizing, fewer and fewer organizations need to come to campuses to find people. They’re besieged with applications already. It would be our dream to have 250 recruiters on campus each year actively looking for Davidson students, but we can’t really rely on that. What we have to do is find ways to expose students to resource people in these fields, or to the names of organizations and employers, and hope that through individual searching they will get informational interviews and find leads about getting into organizations. One thing that we’re offering this year which is new for our office is called Career Discovery Fair '92, which will be a day on which we’ve invited more than 75 health and human services, education, arts, and foundation representatives to come to campus and meet with students about their careers and their organizations. These people can’t interview for jobs, but they can provide information. So we’re hoping that during that day, students who want to know more about work in the non-profit area, in those fields which generally don’t send recruiters, will have an opportunity to do it. If this turnsout to be a well-attended event, we would like to do it every year in the spring. I think that will help a lot to strip away the image the Careers Office has of only bringing banks and large corporations to campus. That’s an image we want to fight.

Davidsonian: Are there any growth industries left for the job-seeker, and if so, how accessible are they to a liberal arts graduate?

Jordan: It’s been written everywhere that the United States is moving from a goods-producing economy to a service-based economy. Areas like health and human services, computer science, information processing, and technology are the areas, from what I’ve read, which will have a lot of growth. Other areas within the law, with such job titles as Paralegal, are also on the rise. Those would be very good fields to examine. The problem with an entry-level position is that it requires some sort of specialized training to get the Davidson student the job that he or she wants. Davidson students want and need challenge, and they are bored very easily after leaving Davidson if their position doesn’t give them a lot of responsibility and quite a bit of authority because that’s the way they’ve lived for four years at Davidson. When you look at health and human services and ask what kind of position is there, if you have a training program which prepares you with some grounding in medical terminology, you could work in a medical library. If you have some kind of training in graphic arts work, you could layout brochures or design an outreach campaign. My concern is that the Davidson student has to be open to taking a position that isn’t going to be as challenging or as demanding right out of school so that they can get some experience. Or, they really have to look around and scramble for a short-term kind of training to get the skills they need for a more interesting position. I can’t say that I have talked to a Davidson student who wasn’t going to graduate school at some point. I don’t think students come to Davidson thinking that these four years are going to be enough for them. I think they want to learn for the rest of their lives. Many students come to me looking for something to do for a year or two after Davidson so that they can decide what kind of graduate program they might want to enter. They don’t want to get a job that will keep them in and cause them to become overburdened financially to a condominium or a car. They want something so that they can get some experience before graduate school. This office is trying to meet that need; we’re trying to find those positions. If, on the one hand, the graduate is going to have to take a less-challenging position, maybe some more esoteric things would be better before going to graduate school.

Davidsonian: Not everybody wants to go to graduate school, though. There are those of us who are hoping to get into a career as soon as possible after leaving Davidson. Is it feasible for students who do feel that they have had enough education (for now, at least) to get a good job? Can we make it without further schooling?

Jordan: I think if the enthusiasm and the motivation are there, you can. That’s the real key: you have to convince an employer that you have all you need right now for him or her to do what he or she has for you to do. If you have that, you will be able to move ahead, and you won’t need any more education. But there are many more Davidson students who are tentative seekers in the job arena. If you’re a tentative seeker, I don’t think you’re going to make it, not with the economy as it is now. If you are enthusiastic, if you believe you have the skills, if you have a portfolio, if you have some work experience, then I just think that the sky’s the limit!

Davidsonian: What do you think the college needs to do to bolster this facility? What would be your ideal Careers Office?

Jordan: I believe that the Career Planning and Placement Office on a college campus such as this one needs to be considered a semi-professional setting. I believe it needs to be a very folksy and warm place where students can spend as much time as they want or need to mount their respective searches. I think it needs to be a bridge between the campus and the world outside. I would like to see a separate entity for the Careers Office, a separate physical space.

Davidsonian: Not happy in the Union basement?

Jordan: Not that we don’t love the Union, but I believe students would come to see us more if we were in a more visible setting. I would like to have the opportunity to spend more of my time with Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors. I think career discovery workshops for underclassmen are important to offer. Unfortunately, when I find myself caught up most of the year with juniors and seniors, I don’t have enough time to spend with freshmen and sophomores. So, I think the whole idea of career discovery from the freshman year through the junior year is necessary and positive. It could happen if there were a larger staff. We are different from other schools in North Carolina as to how their Careers Offices are set up. Most have a house in which the office is based. They have interviewing rooms, a nice library, a reception area for interviewers which provide a professional atmosphere. When we have people who come to interview here, and we don’t have the appropriate space for them, and we don’t have the appropriate place for students to wait, it makes for a very bad impression. I think Davidson deserves something better.