MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

More Letters

Pita Responds to Eglin's Letter

To the Editor,

I am writing in response to the letter written by John A. Eglin of the class of 1984. I am
sorry that he still holds such resentment toward the SAE house eight years after his graduation. However, although he cited
many examples of things that SAEs have done in the past (primarily to the ATO house), I hope he can
realize that those “clean-cut, starched, and pleasantly well-mannered” SAEs he mentions graduated along with him. In his letter, he admits
that he doesn’t “know firsthand what’s going on at Davidson now.” Therefore, I feel that his letter is irrelevant to
all the allegations brought against the current SAE house. The SAEs he speaks of all left college many years ago,
and we should focus on the current students to investigate the present problems. I believe that we all (including alumni)
must stop pointing fingers at SAE as the root of all problems on campus. Instead, we should work together as
a community to finally continue to move on with our lives and enjoy our lives at Davidson.

Yvette Pita
Class of ‘95

Alumnus Encourages You to "Dare to Fail"

Editor's Note: This letter was originally submitted to the Davidson Journal and will be published in the Summer edition. Due
to the letter’s message to current students, Director of College Relations Jerry Stockdale passed it on to the Davidsonian. Our
thanks to Mr. Stockdale.

Dear Editor:

My copy of Davidson Journal (Volume VII) stirred three thoughts I decided I should write down while they’re still alive.
First, that learning in the “real world” of work allows for more mixing of one’s interests than many graduate school
programs. Second, that Davidson graduates are better prepared to make the most of real-world learning -- better prepared to see
connections and pursue them without the structure of a graduate school curriculum -- than most other college graduates. And third,
that Davidson graduates are probably more insecure than others in this ability, and in the validity of working-to-learn after college.

I certainly don’t aim to convince my classmates who went immediately to earn graduate degrees that they shouldn’t have. This
message is for new graduates, because an alternative to immediate enrollment in grad school based on the same motivation (that
is, fulfillment of individual potential) is stated more rarely than the case for grad school. There is an alternate scenario
followed by more people than you might think.

I’ll start with my own case (you might have guessed as much). I left Davidson without a clear direction. I
won’t say no direction, but conflicting ones. From early vocational aptitude tests administered in the ninth grade, I had shown
interest in forestry and writing, but they seemed to cancel each other. For forestry, the official response was: “People who
choose this occupational goal do not usually prefer the school subjects and activities you like.” In short, I should “think
about other occupational areas more in line with (my) interests and abilities.” This perplexed me for years as I studied
Humanities during the school year and experimented with jobs on farms and ‘externships’ with the Forest Service in summers. I
enjoyed both, but saw no sign of overlap.

In spring of senior year, resigned, I signed up for interviews with Kroger and Georgia Pacific, thinking that was as
close as I could get to a field that didn’t exist. Instead, I ended up in Africa with the Peace
Corps, where I learned about agroforestry, a relatively new field (for scientists, not for farmers) of combining agricultural and tree
crops for better farming, practiced mostly in developing countries. I now work as an editor of research in this field
where anthropology, genetics, economics, agriculture, and forestry intersect. My generalist Davidson background helps me to communicate new concepts and practices
to people with varying backgrounds.

Some readers might have seen this as a solution to my dilemma several paragraphs ago. But I didn’t, and if
I had gone to graduate school straight out of Davidson, I would never have found this twilight zone where my
interests meet. There were no U.S. graduate programs in agroforestry when I graduated from Davidson, and there likely never will
be programs in interdisciplinary communications for agroforestry. The point is that by working and learning on my own, opportunities appeared
that helped me to define my options.

Many other alumni have found careers in areas like film and journalism, fields that they were not initially attracted to
because of the stereotypes associated with them. But by mixing the range of his or her interests, a Davidson graduate
can make a job expand beyond the confines of a career stereotype.

This rumination is clearly not for people who know their goals and have identified programs that match them. But if
you know you are ‘grad school quality’ but don’t feel an inner certainty of what field, if you are thinking
that by enrolling is a mark of tentativeness and failure: Stop! Working for two or three years in a field
you may be onlyVaguely aware of can help to focus your goals. You can enter graduate school later, in a
program tailored to your interests. Your motivation and chance of success will be a lot greater for it. Most Davidson
students are hard-wired for success and societal approval; there’s little risk of them ‘dropping out’ from life. The greater risk
is to settle for less, followed by frustration and later resignation. Short-term ‘failure’ (failure to define yourself, to get on
the fast track, to settle down, etc.) can spur the psyche that craves approval, like most of ours, through different
and more imaginative channels. Therefore, let your motto be “Dare to fail!” Because chances are, you have many more tools
than you think you have for moving between commonly traveled career paths. With a Davidson education, you can work through
various combinations and alternatives -- you can think. Don’t sell the ability in exchange for the security of a well-traveled
career path and immediate approval from others. Delay your gratification! You are better able than anyone else to find a
way to combine your interests in your work. It just might take a couple of years of your time and
effort. Dare to ‘fail’! The Careers Office may be able to put you in touch with alumni in different (possibly
conflicting) fields of your interest.

David Taylor
Class of ‘83
Bangkok, Thailand

The End Is In Sight!

As the end of this school year quickly approaches, we, the students, prepare for a final test of endurance and
stamina. I’m not talking so much about exams but about studying for exams in weather that is, at the very
least, amazing. A friend of mine that graduated a year ago noticed that exams are intentionally scheduled either in the
last week before Christmas or during optimum tanning time. Dean Williams is at it again, kids, and there’s no end
in sight. I think we ought to protest. We could all congregate on Chambers lawn, and maybe arrange for a
Reggae band and barbecue and...oh, sorry, that’s my first day on the Court...but after next year it won’t seem too
repetitive. If the demonstration doesn’t come to fruition, maybe SGA can organize a forum at the lake campus. Actually, that
would be a great way to get people to study since nobody goes to forums of all things. The lake
campus would seem positively desolate.

Andrew Spainhour

I may not pick up my racket from Spring Break until the end of April, but during exams, I’m usually
part of a doubles group that redefines the word procrastination. For a friend of mine freshman year, the tennis court
proved to be his undoing in more ways than one. As we were playing next to his humanities teacher, he
missed a gorgeous overhead, and as we later found out, the F-word could be heard all the way down at
Rusk.

Mills - Continued from page 7

Together on residence halls and heightened competition in areas ranging from intramural field to parties. This competition was regarded as
unhealthy at times: sometimes pranks became malicious and dangerous. Students believed that the trend at Davidson was toward still greater
identification with fraternities. A sizeable number of women felt strongly that the College still considered itself a men’s school primarily.
They believed that men, particularly fraternity men, received special treatment, especially from the Dean of Students Office. You can suggest
that a longer, more professional process of “interviewing, analyzing, and studying” campus life has been neglected here at Davidson. I
disagree. The Select Committee seems to have heard and voiced words spoken before. Perhaps at first those words were said
more “politely,” with less force and urgency. Perhaps they were buried too deeply within our long report. But the time
comes, as Flannery O’Connor says, that “to the hard of hearing you shout, and for the almost-blind you draw large
and startling figures.”

The Select Committee was formed by the President to respond to a crisis situation. In order to provide their report
within the President’s three-week limit, they met three hours a day, five days a week. The Task Force on the
Quality of Student Life, having had more time to reach its conclusions, ended its work by acknowledging that, while it
could make many individual commendations and recommendations, often it had only begun to identify and explore problematic portions of the
quality of student life and that valid “prescriptions” for those areas deserved more detailed study than the task force’s limited
time and resources permitted. We knew that, after many months of investigation and exploration, the bulk of the hardest work
remained to be done. The Select Committee’s report, written in response to immediate crisis, reiterates that challenge.

Sincerely,
Elizabeth M. Mills
Associate Professor of English
