6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor

The Davidsonian

KEVIN MILLER - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

ANGUS S. STONE - Production Manager
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

“The deepest depths of Hell are reserved for those who remain neutral in times of crisis.” - John F. Kennedy

Just what is going on around here? Or should we say, “What isn’t going on around here?” The school’s administration
is preparing to implement a radically different alcohol policy and when the SGA organizes a student forum to discuss the
issue, a meager 30 of us show up. Surely more than 30 of us have a vested interest in this
proposed policy.

When the “Select Committee” released its report two weeks ago, the only signs of protest or discussion from the student
body were from those directly affected, despite the fact that the report tackled all aspects of Davidson life and community.
Does this lack of response from the student body mean that we are pleased with the actions of various groups
and individuals affecting our lives? Surely not.

Last week when The Davidsonian published the list of candidates running for SGA offices, the editorial board found it sadly
ironic that there were only 5 rising Seniors and 7 rising Juniors contesting the positions. On a brighter note, 15
rising Sophomores ran. But why does apathy seem to grow with the years spent at Davidson?

Our editorial last week was a rather strong denunciation of the select committee’s work and we fully expected to be
able to print rebuttals in this week’s paper. We received one letter concerning the editorial. We heard from .06% of
you. If you are pleased with the direction the school has taken over the past few weeks then your reaction
is appropriate. But if you are not, then it is your responsibility to make your voice heard.

The Dean of Students office welcomes student input on the various aspects of our lives. Sadly, there has been little
to no response from students on the proposed alcohol policy, leaving the office to formulate the policy with little student
input. So, when this new policy is enacted and you are not pleased with it, do not blame the Dean
of Students or the SGA, it is your fault.

This is your school. You and your families are investing a great deal of money into your education. Get something
out of this investment and get involved. The choice is yours and opportunities for your input are plenty. Don’t let
the opportunity pass you by.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Student Finds True Source of Campus Troubles and Tensions

To the editor,

As a former journalist, I feel that it is my obligation to the Davidson community to make use of my
investigative skills to address a problem that has plagued this campus for quite some time—the ongoing SAE saga. With six
SAE pledges, or rather former pledges, on my hall and an SAE hall counselor, I have been able to witness
this growing cancer from a better perspective than most. I have watched them when they did not know Iwas around.
I have listened to their conversations. I have spied on the types of people they fraternize with. My findings are
startling, but the most shocking discovery of all occurred late one night this past winter. One of the pledges (who
shall remain nameless) passed out in my room after a drunken rampage of vandalism and verbal abuse. As I approached
the sleeping dragon, I noticed something behind his right ear. Upon further investigation, I found the number “666” to be
engraved in the back of his head. Still unconvinced that my discovery was what I feared, I began to frequent
their parties, much to my discomfort and terror. I soon found that aside from their penchant for brandishing baseball bats
in a threatening manner, I was going to have to look elsewhere for evidence. The crafty boys hid their swastikas
and other Nazi paraphernalia from my wandering eyes. Oblivious to the tremendous danger, I decided to

See "Allison" on page 8

Community Rebuilding Requires Honor and Compassion

To the Editor:

The Honor Code and Code of Responsibility demand respect and integrity on the part of the entire Davidson community. Members
of an honorable and compassionate community must act when intolerance and dishonesty arise. The Select Committee forced us to examine
some of the fundamental tenets of the Davidson social life. If we fail to learn and change from the incidents
of this school year, Davidson may be in danger of losing the honor and respect that hopefully defines our community.

The Davidsonian editors chose to criticize Chuck Hasty for not maintaining a neutral stance as a chaplain instead of rebuking
the individuals who have yet to reveal information relating to unresolved incidents of harassment. Members of SAE chose to write
a divisive advertisement that can only weaken the community and hurt those students affected by unresolved cases of intolerance. Defensive
posturing is natural when attacked, but it seems to me that bitter criticism of the Select Committee’s allegations is improper
if even one harassment case is unresolved. If any SAE’s or other Davidson students have knowledge of the three remaining
incidents that the fraternity’s advertisement describes as unsolved, this information must be given to the proper individuals. Otherwise, how can
we call ourselves a community characterized by integrity, friendship, and fraternity?

The Select Committee may have made allegations

See "Adams" on page 9

Apathy Frustrates Turner

To the Davidson College Campus,

Does anyone at this college give a damn? Different groups on campus have been working on the proposed alcohol policy,
trying to get and put forth students’ ideas. I guess they are the only people who care about the alcohol
policy. Or maybe you think that groups in charge of changes can read your minds so you do not need
to tell anyone. The SGA cannot have a strong influence on this proposed policy unless they have student backing.

The SGA has had many forums in order to gather student concerns. I am sick of hearing people complain that
the SGA never accomplishes anything. Tonight there were only thirty students at the alcohol policy forum. When the report from
the Select Committee presented its findings we criticized it because they did not interview enough students and therefore their conclusions
were unrepresentative of the student body. If students want to be represented they should be involved in the Select Committee’s
project; however, everyone was welcome at the forum. The SGA worked hard and gave Dean Terry a thorough response to
his proposal. Dean Terry has come out with a second edition of the proposed alcohol policy, which encompasses many of
the SGA’s recommendations. In addition, when forums are poorly attended, those who have put long hours into making proposals are
very discouraged and believe that their work was for naught. If students want changes, they need to illustrate how

See "Turner" on page 8
