THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992

Tel-Aviv Native Akov Speaks Out On Israeli Perspective
By John Murchison

David Akov, a native of Tel Aviv who attended high school in Raleigh for one year while his father was
on sabbatical in the U.S., spoke on the Israeli view of the Middle East today. Akov currently works at the
Israeli Consulate General in Atlanta.

Akov said that one of the most important issues to Israel is recognition. Currently, no Arab nation recognizes Israel’s existence
except Egypt, which officially recognized Israel in the Camp David Agreements of 1979. Akov said recognition is important to Israel
as a matter of pride, and that it is a necessary step towards negotiations with other countries. He felt that
if the current Arab-Israeli talks are successful, more Arab nations will recognize Israel.

Akov also stressed the historical importance of the current negotiations between the Arab nations and Israel. He said that this
is the first time that the two sides have ever had a real chance for progress. Akov feels this current
situation was made possible by the decline of the Soviet Union and the events of the Gulf War. Akov said
that the decline of the Soviet Union as a superpower was crucial to the success of the Gulf War. Akov
felt that when the Soviets were more powerful, they would never have allowed a coalition of the U.S. and Arab
nations to form and start a war in the politically important Middle East.

Speakers Ask Students to Use Their "Condom Sense"
By Jeff Oller

The Dean of Students Office and the campus awareness group SHOC (Student Health Options Committee) sponsored a lecture last Wednesday
given by Kim Segur, a worker at ACCESS (AIDS Coalition of Charlotte for Education, Service, and Support) and “Duke,” a
gentleman who is HIV positive, in conjunction with National Condom Week.

Kim Segur started by identifying the four ways to acquire AIDS: unsafe sex of any kind, infected needles, tainted blood
transfusion, and a transfer of mother to child with either the child being born with AIDS or being infected through
breast milk. She asserted that everyone will know someone who has died of AIDS within a very short period of
time.

Duke is 37 and has known for about five years that he is HIV positive. He does not have AIDS
and he is quite healthy now. He is a salesman who travels all over the nation and into other countries.
He found out that he was HIV positive when his partner at that time tried to donate blood and was
found to have AIDS. Duke was then tested and received confirmation that he was indeed positive also. Duke said he
has experienced terrific familial support, although he does not advertise that he is HIV positive. Duke asserts that he has
HIV; HIV doesn’t have him.

In response to questions raised by the audience, Duke made it clear that, while the small insurance plan that he
is under, which services small businesses such as his, protects him, many others who are HIV positive or have AIDS
are not protected. Those that are infected, he said, are afraid to change jobs because they might lose insurance, and
their managers might find out and refuse to continue employing them.

Both Duke and Kim Segur stated that it was important to understand that a victim’s ability to cope and survive
with the HIV virus and with AIDS is greatly dependent upon the attitude of the victim. Kim Segur said, “Attitude
has, I think, a tremendous amount to do with fighting AIDS.” HIV can lie dormant for up to fourteen years,
and Duke knows of a friend who has lived with full-blown AIDS for over three years now. An AIDS victim
is in danger of dying from diseases that healthy people fight off every day. Tuberculosis, PCP, pneumonia, and the common
cold are among those diseases. An AIDS patient can be put on a medication called AZT, which will not cure
the victim, but will slow the disease’s process.

ACCESS is a member organization, which means that the members vote on all issues and are not controlled by outside
influences like government. One can become a member for a $5 fee. ACCESS was formed to provide additional help to
those who are infected with HIV and those who have AIDS. ACCESS works towards helping those stricken to care for
themselves. Furthermore,~ Soccer Continued from page 1

recruiting job somewhat less challenging. In addition, there is the possibility that marquee teams like UCLA would come to play
Davidson during the regular season to get a look at the site of the Final Four. The tournament also might
lure several accompanying events to Davidson. In 1991, the National Soccer Coaches Association of America’s symposium, led by present U.S.
World Cup coach Bora Milutinovic and 1990 coach Bob Gansler, was held in conjunction with the Final Four. According to
Slagle, the Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America has shown interest in holding its Senior Bowl all-star game at Davidson the
same weekend.

Akov also said that the Gulf War itself was important because it was the first time Arab nations had formed
a coalition against another Arab nation. He said that this was a shock to the Middle East, and that it
caused the Arab nations to reconsider if Israel is the real enemy in the Middle East. Akov said Israel had
hoped that its neutral role in the war would have brought changes in Arab-Israeli relations. He specifically mentioned the Arab
boycott of Israel. This boycott covers products made in Israel, companies that trade with Israel and then companies that trade
with those countries. Akov also pointed out that Israel imports its oil from Mexico, even though the countries around it
are the most oil-rich nations in the world. Akov said although these changes haven’t materialized yet, he hoped that there
might be some progress with the current negotiations.

Akov said that another development which concerns Israel is the breakup of the Soviet Union. Akov said that many of
the mostly Muslim republics will probably become part of the Middle East. Akov felt that these countries will have to
decide between becoming a secular, pro-west nation like Turkey, or a more fundamentalist nation like Iran. Akov said that this
decision would be closely watched by Israel, since several of these new nations currently have nuclear weapons.

Finally, Akov addressed the issue of the West Bank. He said that one thing that many people do not understand
is that Israelis have as much right to settle there as Palestinians do. He also pointed out that the majority
of Israel’s military is a reserve force, and therefore the importance of the region as a buffer zone could not
be undervalued. Akov said that the extra time it takes an invading army to cross the West Bank could decide
whether or not Israel would survive. Despite the importance of the land to Israel, Akov felt that a solution could
be reached.

ACCESS is working towards combating the national hysteria concerning AIDS and AIDS victims. Both speakers assert that condoms need to
be readily accessible to those in school of all ages. Condoms are available free, no questions asked, at the Student
Health Center. Georgia Ringle points out that, statistically speaking, there are Davidson students who are HIV positive. One may receive
a free, anonymous AIDS test at the Mecklenburg County Health Center. A person seeking the test does not give his
or her name, but is instead given a number. It is illegal for a private doctor to give an anonymous
test. Confidential tests are available from the doctor for a price, or they are free from organizations. Confidentiality is sometimes
broken, however.

Both speakers believe that AIDS is one hundred percent preventable with intelligence, and that safe sex is essential. Abstention, they
said, is ideal, but in a real world, safe sex is necessary. Both implored students to use latex condoms with
water-based lubricant and to be sure that they know how to use them correctly. Duke said, “Sex is not something
you should have to die for.”

WRITE FOR NEWS
CALL KEVIN MILLER AT -6372

HELP WANTED
Need someone for part-time child care in home. For information call Kim Berry at 892-9944

PA. M.D. J.D. M.B.A.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.
CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300 - WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.
LSAT * GMAT * GRE * MCAT

AND THOUSANDS OF OTHER STYLES
THE LARGEST SUNGLASS SHOP IN THE CAROLINAS
QUALITY-SELECTION-SERVICE-PRICE
Island Eyewear
WHERE AMERICA SHOPS FOR SUNGLASSES
SEE OUR SELECTION OF OPTICAL FRAMES FROM 19.95 TO 39.95
(704) 892-6017
LAKE NORMAN, N.C.
EXIT 28, I-77, CORNELIUS, SOUTHLAKE SHOPPING CENTER (NEXT TO HARRIS TEETER)
