10 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

Modest Stillness and Humility: D.A. Thompson

Mistah Kurtz--He Taking Statistics

“Edible Wild Plants!” If the administration ever shows the cajones to include me in one of the brochures they send
out to the high schools, you’ll find those three words under my picture. While the Pattons, Cunninghams, and Covingtons tell
their interviewers about Davidson’s feeling of community, the opportunities for growth, and how just plain neat this place is, I’ll
look the PR guy square in the eye and say, “Edible Wild Plants!”

That one phrase better expresses my reasons for loving Davidson College than could any drippy speech about the Honor Code,
the Laundry Service, or the tenured babysitters who help keep things quiet. Thanks to Edible Wild Plants, or, as I
like to call it, Foraging for Credit, I can still graduate from this school without knowing a damned thing about
science. Under the new curriculum, each student must complete three courses in math and science, with at least one of
those sciences requiring a lab. Believe it or not, tooling about the campus on a sunny afternoon in search of
undomesticated tubers actually counts. Color me pleased.

I’ve had another quest to pursue. With my C+ in Biology, my gifty D in Calculus, and my P in
Physics for Idiots tucked safely away in my transcript, I have been able to pursue unfettered my career as an
English major. I made my decision to achieve a degree in letters at a rather early stage in my development.
My first run-in with fractions sealed the vault on my ever following the life of a banker. But it wasn’t
just my own mathematical ineptitude which kept my fingers from the abacus, I needed a spotlight. Having all my life
been cursed with this terrible penchant for running my mouth before any kind of audience, I knew that no matter
how trippingly I said the phrase “six and three fifths” I’d never get a laugh. Such slings and arrows of
outrageous boredom I could not suffer.

Realizing so soon that my chances of even landing a night job cleaning toilets at NASA were about as slim
as my playing power forward for the Knicks, I saddled up my attitude and moseyed on over to the right
side of my brain. There are, of course, those in high schools across the heartland who hold my likes in
contempt. They are those base and stupid little peons who use such hackneyed lines as “funny, you don’t look queer”
when they learn of my interests, or shout “have fun reading!” Don’t worry, I will. But be sure you enjoy
your gym class now, you wedgie-proffering, future wife-beating, one day child-molesting swine, for I hear chin-ups and softball aren’t nearly
as much fun in the prison yard.

More pathetic, however, than the types who hit home-runs and ethnics for fun are those who don’t like English because
they can find no definable “use” for the training. These Gradgrinds seem to think that if it’s not useful it
isn’t worth having. Under their logic, we’d have to get rid of the SGA, and who’d want to do that?
As if these folks never carried condoms in their wallets. All art is quite useless, but it beats the hell
out of learning how to keep track of other people’s money. I will show you fear in a handful of
accountants.

The world hinges and depends upon the skills with which every English major worth his salt leaves college: the ability
to surmise a situation, to think analytically, to form a plausible solution, and to present your ideas with articulation and
maybe even a little grace. In other words: listening fast and B.S.ing faster. We very well might get richer than
cheesecake with these our marketable skills on hand, but trust me ECO majors, you’ll never get out of court with
only a fine for being a whiz at Quattro.

The best part about being an English major, however, is that we get to be snobs. We really are terrible.
We’re honestly worse than what you’ve ever overheard. We look down on all of the rest of you Language, Psych.,
Bio., and Chem. majors with the mustiest of tweed disdain, as if we were the hardest working, most challenged group
on campus.

Patterson Court: The "Den of Sin and Iniquity" Doesn't Have to Be So Bad
By Kirby Shealy

I am sure most of you have read the report to the President from the Select Committee on Alleged Intolerance
entitled “Rebuilding Community”. Those of you reading this Davidsonian are probably getting a healthy dose of reaction to that report,
specifically regarding its recommendations for the future of SAE. Well, I don’t want to make a judgment on its merits,
but I would like to respond to a disturbing undercurrent of resentment toward Patterson Court in general and fraternities in
particular that is apparent in its overall tone.

Nowhere is this sentiment more evident in the report than on page 20: “years of benign neglect by the College
authorities have transformed Patterson Court from an open community of student eating houses into a closed community of fraternities and
female eating houses that encourages good people to behave badly” (emphasis supplied). This sentence suggests rather plainly that the existence
of single-sex eating organizations results in the corruption of otherwise well-meaning individuals. Other parts of the report focus attention solely
on the fraternities of the Court, as they have been the scenes of many, if not the majority of instances
of harassment, fighting, alcohol abuse, and general intolerance in the Davidson community.

What concerns me most is the widely-held notion that fraternities are fundamentally bad organizations that foster attitudes of exclusivity, intolerance
to “outsiders”, and abusive attitudes toward women. This idea could not be more fallacious. Every fraternal organization of which I
am familiar was founded with the purpose of upholding some set of lofty ideals, usually Christian in nature, none of
which includes the aforementioned. Traditionally, men who join fraternities do so because the ideals that the group espouses are those
that they would like to live.are, as a matter of fact, laughing at you, not with you, most of the
time. Why we think we have any right to such atrocious behavior is beyond me, ‘cause we don’t really do
diddley: After telling everyone that 495 is difficult and demanding, I'll admit here and now that we actually spent the
term making fun of the Political Science Department. You’d be shocked if I listed all the dirty words that rhyme
with “Ortmayer.” Last year in seminar, I think we spent maybe fifteen minutes cracking on Anthropology and the rest of
the time watching Oprah. It rocked. This reminds me: Matthew Arnold and Thomas Huxley got themselves pretty worked up over
this Literature v. Science thing all the time, and each made several great points which I’m supposed to have read
for Dr. Holland. Maybe tonight I’ll settle in with these Victorians for a hot intellectual debate. Ah, screw it, I’m
a bit tired, and besides, that leggy supermodel’s gonna be on Letterman.

The Kappa Alpha Order, for example, was founded in the spirit that certain codes of gentility should be followed by
each member of the organization. Obligation number IV of a KA brother, as outlined in its pledge manual The Varlet,
mandates “that he will at all times conduct himself as a gentleman.” KA traces its definition of genteel behavior back
to Medieval codes of chivalry “with its attributes of honor, faith, justice, regard for truth, consideration of others, reverence for
pure womanhood, and courtesy and good judgment in everyday actions.” While this may sound a bit hokey to some, I
think it is fair to say that KAs are called to look out for others and act in a manner
that reflects well on themselves and does not demean or degrade those around them (including women, minorities, etc.). SAE, the
object of much of the criticism contained in the Select Committee’s report, has, in my opinion, an even better definition
of gentlemanly behavior. Page 23 of The Phoenix, SAE’s pledge manual, is devoted solely to a quotation by John Walter
Wayland:

The True Gentleman is the man whose conduct proceeds from good will and an acute sense of propriety, and whose
self-control is equal to all emergencies; who does not make the poor man conscious of his poverty, the obscure man
of his obscurity, or any man of his inferiority or deformity; who is himself humbled if necessity compels him to
humble another; who does not flatter wealth, cringe before power, or boast of his own possessions or achievements; who speaks
with frankness but always with sincerity and sympathy; whose deed follows his word; who thinks of the rights and feelings
of others, rather than his own; and who appears well in any company, a man with whom honor is sacred
and virtue safe.

Despite a notable absence of sex-inclusive language (Mr. Wayland probably never had Humanities—inexcusable, but hey, nobody’s perfect), this quote seems
to me to contain many of the basic ingredients for getting along well in a civil society. What I wish
to show is that fraternities, as institutions, are not elitist, conformist, racist, narrow-minded bastions of masculinity bent on subverting feminism,
authority, and a diversified college community. In fact, most pledge to combat these attitudes within themselves and to serve as
good examples for others. However, the lofty ideologies that fraternities stand for on paper mean absolutely nothing if their members
do not take them seriously. This, I believe, is a significant problem here at Davidson (and not just at SAE),
one that, if not eradicated, could mean the end of fraternities or Patterson Court altogether. Those of you affiliated with
a house on the court need to see "Fraternities" on page 11.

It's Time for Freedom and Responsibility (Again)

Last week, a friend who is considering attending college here visited—he’s already been accepted, and the decision as to where
he will enroll is between Washington & Lee and Davidson. Answering his questions, all the while trying to sell the
school to him, I found myself amazed at my desire to misrepresent certain aspects of Davidson to him. Out of
laziness on one hand and embarrassment on the other, I did not want to explain to him the recent campus
unrest, much less the report that was a travesty to its title—“Rebuilding Community.” But I told the whole truth, and
he seemed undaunted for the most part, which I suppose I should have expected. Davidson, from the outside looking inward,
apparently still seems extremely attractive, for which there is cause for rejoicing in light of the current goings-on. The rest
of us, though, ought to be seriously disturbed by the fact that on the inside, things are a bit more
troubled as student disenfranchisement seems to be felt more and more pervasively. In previous columns, I have speculated as to
why this trend seems to be perpetuating itself. Recently, I’ve noticed another factor which I think could contribute to the
perception of student displeasure. A friend recently told me that in her opinion, certain members of the administration and faculty
were simply hell-bent on encroaching upon the logistics of student life. This may or may not be true, but I
have noted that the prep school policy of governance—IN LOCO PARENTIS, which means “in the place of parents”—seems to be
rearing its ugly head in the rhetoric of an unnamed few, who would have liked to have seen the establishment
of quiet dorms and the out-and-out end of Patterson Court as it presently exists. Most people would agree that, yes,
quiet hours could stand to be enforced a little better; yes, we do need to shore up the excesses of
the Court and make it a better place for all students; yes, we need to foster greater harmony within our
ranks. On the flip side, most people have disagreed vehemently with measures that only a select group of individuals has
mandated. Unfortunately, as Richard Terry noted in a recent report, students often perceive the directives of a few authority figures
as the See "Freedom" on page 12.
