You must separate your trash into bottles, cans, and papers. You must fasten your seat belt. You may not litter.
If you violate these “commandments” in Pennsylvania, you will get a hefty fine. You should care about the environment. Let
me rephrase that: You are supposed to be worried about the environment. You are expected to give to charity and
volunteer your time. You are supposed to be kind to animals. If you express a different opinion, you are not
civilized. You are morally repugnant. You are ignorant. You are a fascist. Fascist? A fascist is someone who advocates restrictions
on your individual freedom for the “good” of society in general. Fascists are those who try to control your life
because they know what you should be doing. Fascists are those who force you, by law, to recycle, to buckle
up, and to pick up your trash, no matter how noble these things are.

Don’t get me wrong, it is admirable to recycle, buckle up, quit smoking, and pick up trash, but to make
it mandatory is treading the thin line between practicality and dictatorship. My high school had a community service requirement. In
order to graduate, every senior had to volunteer five hours of their time in the community. The school believed that
to be a productive citizen, one should help others. I agree wholeheartedly and did more than the minimum, but this
is entirely the wrong way to go about it. Altruism is noble because it is from the heart and is
not forced. Have you ever heard of compulsory charity? It is an oxymoron. A forced volunteer is not a volunteer
at all. And it really does matter whether the sentiment is sincere.

You are irrational if you litter, and you are irresponsible if you don’t recycle, but in America, we have the
right to be irrational, a jerk, and irresponsible. Simply put, in many cases, we have the right to be wrong.
It is a hell of an infringement on our rights as citizens of a free country to be forced by
some idiot in the government to recycle. I’ve been a lot more serious in this column than usual because the
idea of forcing someone to be safe is downright scary. The greatest atrocity in the 20th century was committed in
the name of altruism. Sacrifice the individual for the good of the state. Communism said that everyone must be equal.
Doesn’t that sound as noble as saying everyone must buckle up? Nazi Germany said...

See "Next" on page 11

Clinton Move Is Only the First Step
By Chris Hood

President-elect Bill Clinton’s pledge to overturn a military ban on gays has brought another angle to the ongoing debate about
homosexuality. Nevertheless, the primary issue here goes far beyond the military; it is discrimination against homosexuals across the nation. Earlier
this month, Colorado voters chose to rescind all laws granting gays civil rights protection; a similar measure in Oregon was
defeated. A proposal that local anti-discrimination laws be extended to cover sexual orientation is dangerously close to being rejected by
the Charlotte City Council.

Scientific studies are consistently proving that homosexuality is not a “conscious choice,” as some argue. Quite to the contrary, evidence
is showing that sexual orientation is far more dependent upon genetic factors. Given these data, legislation which permits discrimination against
gays appears most ludicrous. Those who insist that individuals choose to be gay could consider the plight of a homosexual.
Does it seem logical that one would intentionally subject himself or herself to the prejudice and ridicule of much of
society? Does it seem logical that one would make a conscious decision to put his or her job, home, and
family in jeopardy? These are precisely the reasons why so many homosexuals and lesbians remain “in the closet.”

Think back to your high school days; recall your athletic teams, extracurricular activities groups, and/or church youth groups. Consider the
contacts you have here at...

See "Hood" on page 12

Pithy Irreverence... Once Upon A Time At Thanksgiving

There’s a moral in here somewhere. One year, my dad got the bright idea that we were going to celebrate
Thanksgiving “the traditional way.” Y’know, the way the settlers and Indians used to: out in the wilderness, trying to track
down dinner. I was pensive about the whole idea. First, I have problems celebrating the holiday in the first place.
Think about it. The Indians came to us (“us” being my pilgrim ancestors), gave us food, taught us how to
survive, and held our hand through the winter, and we took their land and killed them or gave them liquor
so they could kill themselves. So we get off from school.

Second, I don’t consider hunting a very fair sport. Maybe if you had to joust with the deer, or, if
you’re hunting bears, how about boxing? I guarantee the number of hunters would decrease exponentially. Finally, I’m not a...Very wilderness-y
kind of guy. I like the Discovery Channel, but that’s about as far as it goes. I always imagine myself
on a hunting trip, having the same fate befall me as that poor woman in Maine who got shot in
her backyard whilst hanging out the laundry. But my protests fell on deaf ears (which had no doubt become that
way from the “bang” of firing guns). My father and his friends said it would be oh-so-fun and emphasized that
there would be lots of beer. So I agreed to go. Sort of a conscientious objector, if you will. We
loaded up the trucks with the automatic weapons and hand grenades. Those turkeys didn’t have a chance. The forest air
was bracing, the leaves crunched under our feet, and the smell of a campfire rounded out the picture nicely. Those
in charge thought it wise to hold a strategy session before we set out. It was decided we should split
up, apparently to confuse the turkey. Or deer. Whatever it was we were hunting. I think the game of the
day was “whatever moves.” I put on my battery-powered orange vest with the big flashing “I’m Not A Deer” sign
across the back and headed out.

So anyway, the long and short of it is: I became horribly lost. It’s amazing how all those trees look
about the same. I tried the compass, but it just spun playfully in its little pool of green compass juice.
After about an hour of walking in zig-zags and circles, I shot it with my gun. Hmmm, I thought. Now
I’m kind of screwed. What would Daniel Boone do in a situation like this? The old-fashioned method: that moss-on-the-north-side-of-the-trees trick.
But to my dismay, no one told modern moss that, in order to serve as an effective navigational tool, it
should only grow on the northern side. Just as I was about to give up hope, out of the wilderness
stepped an old man who looked like Natty Bumppo crossed with the drunk guy in "Blazing Saddles." Great, maybe he
could tell me where I was. He walked right up to me, considered me. “I’m hungry,” he said, and pulled
out a Rambo knife. I fainted.

I dreamt of better days, back when I was in preschool and Thanksgiving consisted of making headdresses out of construction
paper and using my hand and that sour-smelling red paint to stamp turkeys. When I came to, Natty was cooking
some sort of rodent on a spit above a small fire. “Sorry to scare you,” he said. “Have some dinner?”
We sat by the fire and ate. I didn’t ask what it was. And yes, it did taste like chicken.
We ate in silence. The old man’s face was weather-worn and wrinkled and told the story of many years spent
alone in the wild. We finished and I asked if there was a public phone nearby. He smiled and said,
“Follow me.”

It was becoming dark, the sunset beginning to stretch out fingers of red through the mostly leafless trees. I watched
my feet wade through the sea of brown leaves. Suddenly, there was a call: “Any luck?” I was back at
the campfire, and a few of “the hunters” were prodding the embers of a dying fire, looking cold and miserable.
"Burp." Male bonding. They hadn’t killed anything, or even seen anything besides each other since the morning, and were accordingly
pretty dejected. “Where’ve you been?” asked somebody. “Thanksgiving,” I said. The moral: Don’t do anything stupid on Thanksgiving. Stick to
tradition. Stay home. Eat till you want to puke. Watch football. Like our ancestors.

Don't Tread on Me... Some Things That Don't Sit Well

This year I have to eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner in the Commons. Carlton Pritchard, didn’t want what was in
the Commons lasted me about three weeks. Since then I have put more money on my cat card. I have
stock in Wendy’s, and I visit my parents for home-cooked meals about three times a week. The worst thing about
this is that my parents have wasted a ton of money this year on meals I never ate. I am
glad to see that a survey is going around so the students can suggest changes in the meal plan. Carlton,
get a clue; the natives are getting restless.

Next, I'd like to talk to you about ignorance. If you keep up with sports at all, I’m sure you’ve...

See "Tread" on page 12.
