THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992 13 Sports

Cats Take Step Back in Disappointing Loss at Campbell
By Bruce Balestier

After a string of good performances that included a win over Miami of the Big East and a fine showing
in a 95-85 loss to 20th-ranked UNCC, it had seemed that the Davidson basketball team was about to turn the
corner. That is, it seemed that way until the Wildcats regressed significantly in a 67-64 loss to Campbell in Fayetteville
Monday night.

Poised on the brink of a blowout win five minutes into the second half, the ‘Cats could not deliver the
killing blow. The Camels took full advantage of a nearly complete Davidson breakdown by putting together an 18-3 run, and
turned a 43-36 deficit into a 54-46 lead with 8:46 to play. The ‘Cats did manage to cut the lead
to 61-59 with 1:25 left, when Jason Zimmerman was fouled on a three-point attempt and converted all three free throws.
But he committed an ill-advised foul just 22 seconds later while denying a pass to Campbell’s Scott Neely. Neely made
both foul shots for a 63-59 Campbell lead. After Davidson was unable to score on the subsequent possession, the Camels’
Mark Mocnik snuck behind the defense for an uncontested layup and a decisive 65-59 lead. Zimmerman banked in a 40-foot
desperation heave with two seconds left to make it 67-64 and called timeout, but the Wildcats could not regain possession,
and time expired.

In the opening half, Davidson bolted to an early 7-0 advantage, but then allowed Campbell a 19-6 spurt that gave
the Camels a 19-13 lead. The two teams played to a 29-29 tie at halftime. Early in the second half,
the Wildcats made their run. Zimmerman hit a three-point shot for a 38-31 lead, and Janko Narat made a three-pointer
to make it 43-36. But when Mocnik intercepted a George Spain pass and coasted in for the jam, the Campbell
surge to victory was underway.

The catalyst throughout the game for Campbell was sophomore forward Joe Spinks. Spinks had his way with the Wildcats’ acquiescent
interior defense, scoring 24 points and seizing 12 rebounds. Offensively, Davidson hurt itself with impatience, manifested primarily in poor shot
selection. On numerous occasions, Wildcat players took the first available shot, and did not allow their motion offense to wear
down the defense and create truly open shots. Detlef Musch was spectacularly effective on the low block when he did
receive the ball; he shot 5-6 from the floor (rebounding his only miss and putting it in) and 4-4 from
the line, and finished with a team-high 14 points and 7 rebounds. But the combination of Campbell double-teams and poor
Davidson shot selection kept the ball out of his hands for most of the 37 minutes he played. Freshman point
guard Frank Harris contributed 13 points and four assists in 39 exhausting minutes of play. Narat added 12 points and
Zimmerman had 11 for the ‘Cats. The loss dropped the team to 7-12, 2-5 in the Big South.

Wildcats a Pleasant Surprise at Southern States Swim Meet
By Chris Hood

Heading into the final round of the Southern States Swimming and Diving Championships Sunday at Cannon Pool, Davidson’s men’s squad
was sixth out of 12 teams with 149 points and the women’s team was eighth out of 12 with 106.

After two days of competition, the men’s team’s most successful event was the one-meter dive, where Thad Reece, Curt Bickers
and Derek Judson finished fifth, sixth and ninth, respectively. The 800-meter freestyle medley team brought home seventh, while Dan Ream,
Carlton Craig, Hayler Osborn and Dan Bahmiller combined for an eighth-place finish in the 200 freestyle relay. Other impressive performances
from the men included ninth-place efforts from Morgan Farrell in the 400 individual medley and Osborn in the 100 breaststroke.

Relays provided the largest chunk of points for the women. The 200 relay team, consisting of Audrey Schuetz, Rebecca Falkenburg,
Kristie Moss and Miche Baskett, and the 800 freestyle squad each earned seventh-place finishes. The 400, made up of Amy
Laukkanen, Hollis Amley, Schuetz and Baskett, and the 200 medley teams each recorded ninth-place finishes. Kate Crosman turned in a
seventh-place score in the one-meter dive.

“We are doing much better than ever anticipated,” Head Coach Ron Morrow beamed after the second day of the competition.
“The hard work of all our swimmers and divers...is really paying off for the teams.”

Women's Basketball Makes Lasting Impression in Final Game
By Jennifer Roos

The women’s basketball team completed their season with four games in the past eight days. They played Brevard, Warren Wilson,
North Greenville, and Washington & Lee. With wins over Warren Wilson and Washington & Lee, the Wildcats finished their first
season back with a record of 4-6.

Davidson traveled to Brevard, North Carolina to play their second game against Brevard. The Wildcats had defeated them earlier in
Belk Arena by one point for their first home victory. The second time around, Brevard was able to even up
the series with a sixteen-point win. Davidson tied the game at halftime 31-31, but could not match Brevard in the
first five minutes of the second half. Brevard pulled out to a quick ten-point lead, and Davidson could not put
together a scoring spurt. As a result, they were forced to foul in the last few minutes and Brevard made
all but one foul shot. The final score was 76-60. Kristin Solsrud hit four three-pointers in the game and had
a season-high sixteen points.

Against Warren Wilson, Davidson looked to push the ball up the floor, since the Owls only dressed six players. The
Wildcats were able to accomplish their game plan. They also used their height advantage and looked to Faison Nuckolls and
Skye Macleod early in the game. The Wildcats took a twelve-point lead at halftime and were able to extend their
lead to twenty points. They finished with a 73-51 victory. During the game, Macleod fell and sustained a probable tear
of her kneecap. The injury sidelined her for the remaining two games.

The next challenge was North Greenville in South Carolina. Without Skye, freshman Margaret Baker and sophomore Molly Sentell had to
step forward. It was a tall order because North Greenville had four girls over six feet and several others who
could rebound very well. Davidson looked to slow down the tempo and walk the ball up the floor. But North
Greenville pressed the entire game and cre-

See "Final Game” on page 14

Dunkin Drops 33 as Coastal Carolina Holds Off Davidson's Attack
By Bruce Balestier

It was Mexican Night Thursday at Belk Arena, as the Combo Latino entertained the crowd during stoppages in play; to
mark the occasion, the Davidson basketball team went South midway through the first half. Coastal Carolina, helped by horrendous Wildcat
shooting, went on a 17-6 run to take a 37-26 halftime lead from which Davidson could not recover. The ‘Cats
closed to within three points late in the game, but the Chanticleers closed the game out at the free throw
line, and took a 72-65 win.

As usual, the big gun offensively for Coastal was junior forward Tony Dunkin, who scored 33 points and grabbed 11
boards. He made five of nine three-point shots. Dunkin did much of his damage in the first six minutes of
the game, scoring 12 of his team’s first 16 points, including a pair of threes. Oddly, though, Coastal’s decisive run
was made largely without his help. Dunkin scored just two points in a 17-6 Coastal run over the last 9:49
of the half that forged a 37-26 halftime lead. Davidson did not score during a more than five-minute span during
that run.

Dunkin extended the Coastal lead to 44-30 with a dunk at the 17:05 mark before the Wildcats came back. Janko
Narat and Jason Zimmerman scored 13 of the ‘Cats’ next 15 points to cut the deficit to 49-45 with 8:20
left. But after Davidson failed on two chances to come closer, Dunkin responded. Within a minute’s time, he hit a
pair of three-point shots for a nine-point Chanticleer lead. Again, the ‘Cats came back. Zimmerman hit a baseline jumper, the
last of six points in a row, to make it 62-59 with 1:34 to play. But Coastal made eight of
eleven foul shots the rest of the way to earn the 72-65 victory.

Zimmerman led the ‘Cats with 22 points, and Narat had 18. J.D. Heuer came off the bench to score 13
points (including 3-5 three-pointers) and grabbed five boards.

Invitational - Home Athletic Events: February 17-24

Wednesday, February 19:
Baseball v. N.C. A&T, 3:00

Friday, February 21:
Women’s Tennis v. N.C. State, 1:00

Friday-Sunday, February 23:
Men’s Tennis v. Davidson Doubles

Sunday, February 23:
Baseball v. VMI, Noon.
