Marie Tuite, the NCAA’s assistant director of championships and liaison for the men’s soccer championships (to be held at Davidson
December 4 and 6), visited Davidson for the first time Wednesday, and apparently liked what she saw. “The people at
Davidson are well organized,” she said. “But the most important thing is they are taking great pride in hosting the
event and it’s being reflected in their work so far.”

Fortunately for soccer coach Charlie Slagle, director of athletic promotions Pat Millen, and athletic director Terry Holland, the three men
who spearheaded Davidson’s successful bid for the event, their enthusiasm has been matched by area soccer fans. In promoting the
championships, Davidson aggressively courted the legions of young fans in the region, and they responded. The last of the 5,350
reserved seats was snatched up in the last week of August. A popular tactic in hosting events of this type
is to sell blocks of a hundred or more tickets to corporations, which may or may not use them. According
to Holland, because of the strong local response, Davidson has not done that at all.

But all that interest has created an unforeseen problem. Already, a waiting list for more seats (which don’t even exist
yet) is over 1,000 names strong, and the issue of whether temporary seats should be added is a touchy one
around Baker Sports Complex. Slagle, of course, would love to open up the event to as many people as possible,
but realizes that other factors are involved. Holland, with whom the decision ultimately rests, is wary of adding to Richardson
Field’s capacity because he fears it will “take away from those who did buy tickets early.”

The town of Davidson, after all, was not designed with events of this size in mind. When Davidson hosted Duke
in basketball three years ago, many people in the crowd of almost 6,000 missed a substantial portion of the game
because the line for parking at Baker stretched all the way to the interstate. Holland’s fear is that such a
scenario will occur again this December, and his fear is a reasonable one. There are bound to be logistical problems
simply in servicing the original crowd of 5,350; adding more seats may only be asking for more trouble. Furthermore, even
if a couple thousand temporary seats are brought in, Holland suspects that the issue of who would get those seats
would become a “political football.” People in the Davidson community feel that they have been cheated because they had only
a few days to buy tickets upon returning to school, but soccer fans in more distant parts of the country
are angry because they had no chance at all to buy tickets, since Davidson never had the chance to market
the event on a national basis.

Pragmatically, Holland has altered the issue a little bit. The issue, he says, is “How can people get to see
the game live?” CBS televises the event, but only on a delayed basis, so Holland presently is negotiating with regional
cable outfits like Prime and SportSouth in the hopes that they will air a live broadcast. His rationale is that,
whether in person or on television, the important thing is to see the game as it happens. Maybe so, but
from the Davidson student’s perspective, it would really anger me to have to watch the game on TV.games on TV
in the common room in Duke while the action went on live a hundred yards away. The best advice for
Davidson students who want to see the action in person is to get on the waiting list immediately and make
a loud noise for added seating.

Home Athletic Events:
Wednesday, September 9:
Field Hockey vs. Duke, 4:30
Men’s Soccer vs. #19 South Carolina, 7:00

A Davidson volleyball player spikes for a point in a win over High Point

Logan Stars in Volleyball Win Over High Point
By Taylor Smith

The Davidson volleyball team opened its season Wednesday night looking like a team that had been practicing together for years.
Playing behind the leadership of sophomore setter Lori Logan, the Wildcats posted an impressive victory, winning their best of five
match against High Point in three games, posting scores of 15-3, 15-5, 15-8.

Before the game, the team had some doubts about how well it would play together. “There have been a lot
of changes in the last little while,” said new coach Carolyn Blake. “But I’m really pleased with the team chemistry
and how well they came together.”

After playing in her first game as a Wildcat, freshman Michelle Augustin was also pleased with the way the team
played. “We didn’t know how we would do, but everything just seemed to click together. We’ve been working a lot
on passing in practice, not spending a lot of time on offense. But the passing really paid off, and our
offense came with it.”

“It was a great team effort,” said Logan, who had 29 assists and four service aces. “The great passing really
helped me in running the offense. I think we have a lot to look forward to.”

The Wildcats played a controlled match, with every member of the team contributing. Junior Amy Howard led the Wildcats with
10 kills, and senior Jennie Wagner was right behind her with eight. Davidson played in the Coastal Carolina Tournament in
Conway, S.C. Friday and Saturday.

Top 10 Continued from page 12

tional power N.C. State, as well as games with powers outside the region such as Maryland, Dayton, and Radford, and
a date with Division II power Elon. Despite the very difficult schedule, Hundley is confident in his team’s ability to
challenge some of the best teams in the area. “I think we'll be able to score against just about anybody
on our schedule,” he said.

According to Hundley, preseason workouts have gone quite well. The freshmen have been accepted readily by the upperclassmen, and the
team has established good chemistry. The ‘Cats’ only weakness appears to be on defense. However, Hundley feels that his defensive
problems are only a matter of finding the right combinations of players who play well together. When all the kinks
are worked out, Hundley hopes to find the Wildcats ranked in the top ten in the Southeast, by far the
toughest region in collegiate women’s soccer.

Davidson opened its season Saturday afternoon with a 5-1 pasting of Queens in Charlotte. They will remain on the road
for three more games before their home opener September 20 against Catawba.

ATTENTION: Forms are available in the Dean of Students Office and the College Union to nominate students for the Goodwin-Exxon
Awards that are presented at Fall Convocation. Three recipients are chosen--one from the sophomore, junior, and senior classes. Deadline for
submission of these forms is 5 PM, September 16.
