| Davidson, NC

THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992

Life appointed by Dean Terry and SAE President Kuykendall.

ROTC NEWS
Continued from page 1

Rusk on a Habitat for Humanity house and volunteering at a Salvation Army soup kitchen. SAE will also continue to hold social functions throughout the year, but only at off-campus locations.

The executive board of SAE will be in constant communication with Davidson during the year. In the letter to SAE parents, Terry said that SAE’s petition to return to Patterson Court “will be judged on their corporate and individual behavior during the school year.”

Their petition will be reviewed by a sub-committee of the Council on Campus and Religious Life appointed by Dean Terry and SAE President Kuykendall. SAE is also forbidden from taking part in rush activities for this school year. New pledges cannot be initiated until January 1994.

According to Dean Terry, SAE’s National has been cooperative with the current situation of the house and they are, “willing to work with us and the chapter to make them compatible.” Lindsay said that SAE’s alumni board has also been very supportive and he hopes they will continue to stand by the chapter.

For the upcoming year, Connor House will occupy the old SAE building on Patterson Court.

The Department of Military Studies at Davidson College has announced the selection of the cadet chain of command for the school year 1992-1993. Davidson senior Mary “Kelly” Davis has been named Cadet Battalion Commander. Kelly will wear the rank of Cadet Lieutenant Colonel and will command the “Carolina Foothills Battalion” which includes cadets from Davidson College, UNC-Charlotte, Catawba College, Livingstone College, Pfeiffer College, and Lenoir-Rhyne College.

Lieutenant Colonel John Moncure, Professor of Military Studies at Davidson College, announced the new cadet officers at a special meeting of the ROTC senior class on 23 August. Cadet officers will lead the Carolina Foothills Battalion Corps of Cadets throughout the school year.

Newly appointed cadet officers are as follows: Kelly Davis - Battalion Commander; Jennifer Brown - Battalion Adjutant; David Harding - Battalion Operations and Training Officer; Shannon Chinnis (Livingstone College) - Battalion Supply Officer; Caroline Lemley - Battalion Public Affairs Officer; Robert Townsend - Company Commander; Bill Pomeroy - Commander, ROTC Rangers/Captain, Ranger Challenge Team.

Seniors interested in a Watson Fellowship should come to a meeting in Chambers.

Recycle this Davidsonian

VILLAGE TRAVEL & CRUISES
Let us help with all your travel plans! Our services are FREE.
704/892-9020 - 800/284-5524
PO Box 879, 109 North Main Street
Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Calendar's Delicatestaurant offers a wide variety of delicious prepared foods. We have Hoagies, Club Sandwiches, Hot Subs, and hot platters for lunch. Come on down! Call ahead and pick up are available.

DELICATESTAURANT
Foods for all seasons!
892-3800 or 892-3628
20700 N. Main Street, Cornelius
With a personal touch—Fran & Sal Comarato

Recycle this Davidsonian