12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

Baby here I am and I’m a man upon your scene
I can give you what you want,
But you got to come home with me.

The lead singer of the Nomads hides his voice behind the band’s noise every chance he can get. Maria’s wearing her smile. She does the quick walk down center stage, not exactly a pageant prance. With her back to the crowd, she undoes the strap to the white tasseled top, then turns toward the clapping and hollering. “Keep the smile,” I’ve always told them, “it makes ’em think you’re enjoying yourself.” We look out for ourselves. Maria starts her dance. She’s not great at it, but she’s good looking enough that the customers don’t care. I’ve overheard Mark, our manager, tell Maria her eyes are fantastic with that devious smile of hers. He is usually drunk when he says it, but I think the poor bastard actually means it, hand on her ass and all. I imagine, after he introduced Maria to her devious smile, she went straight into the dressing room and found it in that big mirror. And even if she won’t admit it, I imagine there was a part of her that was proud, almost embarrassed. With time she’ll see it’s stupid.

I’ve heard others comment on Maria’s straight black hair. How it bounces about the center of her back when she dances. They call it beautiful, they call it fine. But what most of ’em pay attention to are her breasts. They’re firm for being so large, but I don’t think she’s ever been to a surgeon. I’ve never looked close enough for scars. She’s tan from the salon too, and she never flaunts ’em. It makes the bastards work harder.

I was once good at my work like Maria. After all, who taught her all the good tricks? Taught her to be enthusiastic, but never excited. Taught her not to think too much up there. Plenty of time for that at home when you’ve got your money in front of you. If your mind starts wandering, it’s best to bring it back by thinking of funny things. Laughter never hurts. I forget which lessons I taught her directly, but those she’d learned from the others, they’d learned from me. And she learned well. Even picked up a couple of her own tricks. Never forget that time I saw her dancing with some man on stage. (The Paper Doll is one of the few clubs left that lets men dance with its dancers. Usually slow, not too much touching). In the middle of the dance, Maria slowly counted the money she had made that night over the poor fool’s shoulder. The crowd ate it up.

INSIDE ART WINNERS OF THE VEREEN BELL AWARDS
"Paper Doll" By Chuck Scofield

Back in the dressing room, I let the other girls laugh with her a while before I congratulated her. “Well done. Well done.” I said. “Thanks, Allison.” She said to me turning all pink, still new enough to think the oldest dancer knew some things. “You know honey,” I said, “you’re a different sort when you're up on stage.” “The lights help.” She said, hurrying her top. “I can’t see much of the crowd.” “That'll come though. Before too long you'll be smiling and dancing and scouting ’em out... When I first came to the Doll the ladies would say how they had pride in their dancing. Never called it dancing though. Strictly strip tease. It’s the tease that pays they'd say.” Maria laughed along with me at that one. “Anyway, the ladies used to say some have instinct and some don’t. And I’m not sure I’ve ever had it, but it seems to me you’ve got it.” “Thanks,” she said, and her top was finally fastened.

Laughing with the girls and giving advice was a lot easier when I’d been dancing. Sure we promised we would all stay friends, after all I wasn’t leaving the Doll. But we’d never been friends really. When the bastards quit calling me over for table dances... well, guess I cared more about the way they looked at me than I’d thought. I thought about visiting the surgeon but quit dancing instead and started serving drinks as if the Doll were a regular bar. No more staring at my “tits,” I have my paper doll T-shirt and my black blue jeans. Get to keep my hair up when I’m hot, which is always, and I don’t have to worry half as much about the rubbing and the pinching. Besides I learned long ago to catch slow hands by following slow eyes. Mosquitoes are smarter really.

Pretty little thing let me light your candle
Cause Mamma I’m sure hard to handle,
Now yes I am.

Damn guitar player can’t even keep from prancing around stage like an idiot. Whenever he has a solo, he tries getting the attention of whoever’s dancing but they just ignore him. Maria dances to the Ellen’s side of the stage where a couple of men, who look in their thirties, are sitting. Hal and Rachel Ellen are an older couple who come to the Doll at least twice a week. Any of the girls will tell you I don’t like husbands bringing their wives, but the Ellens are nice quiet people. Besides, I imagine Mrs. Ellen would tell you she’s the one who brings Hal. They always arrive late in the night, and they always sit at the same table facing the left side of the stage. They come to drink and dance.

Neither of the men sitting near the Ellen’s table are much to speak of. Both grow their hair long in back to try and balance out their spots that shine in the stage light. The blonde one’s got a bunch of bills lined in front of him thinking he’s pretty cute. I imagine he is the older of the two. Maria pulls her G-string up so the blonde’s friend can slide a couple of bills beneath it. He lets his fingers linger beneath the string, making good and sure the paper has a secure and sweaty spot. The blonde then folds a couple of dollars and holds them in his teeth, this way Maria has to guide him as close as possible, take the money from his mouth and place it carefully beneath the string. After taking his money Maria runs to the other side of the stage where the college kids are in their baseball hats and T-shirts. They stare at her with wet smiles and glazed eyes, except for one who will only look up every once in a while. He was up at the bar earlier: pretty handsome, blonde hair, blue eyes, no movie star, but cute. He’s one of the...shy. The backward hat boy slides a bunch of ones under Maria’s string, and then waits for her to help him with the bill between his teeth. She guides him, then kisses him on the cheek. He smiles, red-cheeked from liquor. You usually get paid and move on, but Maria keeps dancing there, in front of the college kids. She stays until the shy one looks up and smiles a nervous smile. Maria returns the smile, her first real one all night. It’s the smile a dancer makes when she remembers something, or someone, and realizes she’s on stage half-naked, dancing for a bunch of eyes.

Maybe Maria’s thinking of Jess and how they met. But I guess you could say he’s the reason she came to the Paper Doll, leaving her to take care of Melicent, and that is hardly cause for a real smile. Maybe she’s just making up tomorrow’s grocery list. Maria told me she’s going to have to quit sometime this year, because soon Mel is going to be old enough to ask what her mother does for a living. We’ll see though. I said the same thing way back and my daughter grew old enough to try and understand it. Then again she married and moved away, but still I’d be foolish to think that had anything to do with my work. Maybe that’s why I try and look out for Maria. We became Paper Dolls for ourselves, for our children. We’re a different kind of dancer than Jennifer. Jennifer is at the Doll to pay her sister’s way through medical school, at least that’s what she says. And that’s nice and all, but still it makes me angry if I stop and think about it. I imagine it angers Maria too. Lately Jennifer has been having a difficult time deciding whether or not she should make her stage name “Passion” or “Faith.” Me and Maria have milked that of all its laughter. Neither of us has ever seen the point in a stage name. It seems kind of funny when you’re showing everything.

Take my hand, don’t be afraid
I’m gonna prove every word I say
I’m advertising love for free
So won’t you place your ad with me?

Behind the college kid’s table, a man’s waving a hundred-dollar bill for Maria. He’s wearing a sweater the color of red wine, blue jeans, and boots. The knuckles and fingers that hold the hundred are covered with hair. He’s the type to have ape hair on his back. The idiot on his arm is probably his wife, could be his girlfriend. Every time he hollers for Maria she hits him and tries swallowing her cute nervous laugh down with her drink. Slow dancing with men on stage every now and then wasn’t too bad, but when they let ’em bring their girlfriends, wives, and mistresses, I knew the Paper Doll was falling. I tell girls that’s the reason I quit dancing. I tell ’em it lacks taste and pride. “They just want us for some sort of sick inspiration,” I say. Maybe I started looking a little too much like what they are trying to forget instead of something they wish they could remember. Hell, I don’t know. Still, a hundred dollars is hard to ignore. Maria adjusts her devious smile for the bastard, then takes her time sliding off stage. A hundred dollars.

Before Maria had probably even met Jess and I was just learning to dance for the Doll, a man approached me at closing time with a hundred dollars. He was a small man with thin hair, an older gentleman in his early fifties wearing a business suit, a banker or lawyer type. Once he was sure no one was listening he half-whispered that he wanted to take me back to his hotel room and watch me undress. I explained to him that’s what he’d done all night. The hundred-dollar catch was that he wanted to see all of me naked and he wanted to masturbate. The idea disgusted me and made me want to laugh, I was truly young then, eighteen. I smiled, and I think I ended up laughing after all. My daughter Helen was just a few months old and was spending the night with her aunt, so coming home late wasn’t a problem, and a hundred dollars was worth a lot more to me then. When I said it was O.K. he asked that I change into whatever clothes I wore outside of work. He wanted strip, no tease. I undressed in front of him as if I were getting ready to get in the shower, and the whole time he did it he watched me but stayed away from my eyes. The one time our eyes met he let out an awkward laugh, and right before he finished, as I stood there completely naked and cold watching him, the poor fool half-whispered “You are a goddess.” I dressed while he cleaned himself up, and he gave me an extra fifty dollars. I ran down the four flights of stairs and straight into a cab, and I was angered and embarrassed. I wanted to leave that feeling of power locked in that room.

After sliding off the stage, Maria does a good job of immediately grabbing her top and finding the straps in back with ease. “You see,” I once told her, “it’s easy for a dancer to forget whether or not she’s wearing her top off stage. Mirrors, men’s stares, an occasional draft, sure they’re all good reminders to cover up, but the best reminder is the tease. Breasts get boring after a while. You gotta keep things on, so they’ll pay you to take ’em off.” I don’t think Maria’s ever table-danced with a woman around, but I think she can handle it. She’s learned to bring the lights off stage with her. There was the time she was table-dancing for this guy I was bringing gin and tonics. The worst part of waitressing at the Doll is waiting for the money. If the girls are facing me it’s not so bad, I can at least give ’em a wink or a smile. But with their backsides to me, it’s plain awkward.

The gin and tonic man patted her on the ass and said, “Can I ask you something?” She turned around and answered, “Sure, it’s your money.” Not bad. “Does it bother you that we stare? Like before I couldn’t; and even right now I can’t, stop staring at your... at your tits.” “Honestly,” she said, sounding all sincere, like she was giving a tour, “I don’t watch you watching me, but no it don’t bother me.” “Sounds good.” The bastard

See "Paper Doll" on page 13