12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

| Photo by Casey Rogers

Junior Susan Taylor lines up for a shot on goal in the Wildcats' 10-1 win over Erskine.

Women's Soccer Tramples Erskine
Hankins Nets Four
By Jen Lake

The women’s soccer team followed its roughest week of the season with a pair of ungratifying wins last week before putting things together Saturday in a 10-1 win over Erskine. The Wildcats opened the week with a 2-1 victory over Catawba last Sunday and continued the upward trend with a 2-0 shutout against Lenoir-Rhyne Wednesday.

Not satisfied with the two wins, the players came out aggressively against Erskine. Once again heading the offense, Launa Hankins captured her second hat trick of the season and added another with her head for a total of four. Erin Butcher and Sally Graham came off the bench to light the scoreboard with two goals apiece. Heather Wineberg started the action with a goal on a penalty kick after being taken down in the box. Although she only obtained one goal for herself, Ellen Sprinkle set up Hankins perfectly for her second and third goals within the space of a minute.

Goalkeeper Liz Schaper controlled the defense while the ‘Cats were only a couple of goals ahead, and goalies Courtney Robertson and Jen Lake shared time in the second half. The entire team got ample playing time but did not let up in intensity.

On Wednesday, Wineberg and Sprinkle, with a goal each, left their mark on the scoreboard against a weaker Lenoir-Rhyne team. Off a cross by Sarah Cantrell, Susan Taylor and Wineberg volleyed the ball back and forth in front of the net to set up Wineberg for the goal. Sprinkle scored on one of several drives down the left sideline. Robertson led the defense to its second shutout.

The Catawba game was a bit more nerve-wracking; a 1-1 tie lasted until the final seconds of the game, when Hankins, with her second goal of the game, scored the game-winner. Schaper was denied the shutout early in the second half by a well-placed direct kick from Catawba.

See "Women's Soccer” on page 10

Home Athletic Events: September 28 - October 5

Saturday, October 3:
Field Hockey v. [opponent], 1:00 p.m.
Women's Soccer v. Mercer, 2:00 p.m.

Tuesday, September 29:
Volleyball v. Liberty, 7:00 p.m.

UNCC Knocks Off 16 Wildcats
'Cats Top ASU on Eastman's Goal
By Bruce Balestier

Having completed its four-game stretch of top 25 opponents at 1-1-2 after a scoreless tie at Duke, the Davidson men’s soccer team stumbled for the first time Wednesday at UNC-Charlotte. The 4-3 loss to the 49ers, an NCAA Tournament participant last year, put the ‘Cats’ newly-acquired national ranking of 16th in serious jeopardy. The team averted disaster Friday afternoon in Boone by escaping with a 3-2 win over Appalachian State.

In Wednesday’s game, both teams applied frequent pressure to the goal, and the UNCC offense got started in a hurry. Team speed, especially among the forwards, is the 49ers’ primary strength, and they put it to use right off the opening kickoff. UNCC pushed the ball up the field quickly, and Doug Pratt scored demoralizingly quickly, just :16 in. Davidson seemed to be caught off-guard by the 49ers’ speed; striker Rob Ukrop admitted that the ‘Cats “just weren’t mentally there” early in the game.

UNCC went ahead 2-0 just 10 minutes in when freshman Mac Cozier, dreadlocks flying, ran down a quick hitter on the wing and scored. The Wildcats seemed to regain their equilibrium after that and began to apply more offensive pressure. Andy Haile scored in a scramble in front of the goal with 21:05 left in the half to cut the lead to 2-1. Davidson tied the game 2-2 with 10:15 to go in the half when Cliff Castelloe punched in a cross from freshman Ian O’Brien. The 49ers regained the momentum and the lead with 6:07 left in the half, when Pratt headed in a cross for his second goal.

UNCC used speed to reestablish the two-goal lead early in the second half. When Matt Spear’s attempt to clear the ball for Davidson ricocheted off a 49er player’s head and down the left side of the field, UNCC’s...Roush picked up the loose ball and ambled in on Davidson keeper Alex Deegan. Deegan came out to cut down the angle, but Roush beat him with a shot to the bottom right corner to make it 4-2. Roush’s goal came with 37:39 to play, and from then on Ukrop dominated the game. Barely two minutes later, he received a pass from Andy Schwab about 20 yards out, turned it, beat his man to the right, dribbled in and scored with a low shot to the left corner. After the goal, Davidson coach Charlie Slagle replaced Deegan in goal with Neal Andrews. “I did not replace Alex because of the goals he allowed,” Slagle explained. “I took him out because he was down.” During the final 35 minutes of the game, Ukrop showed his entire arsenal as Davidson applied near constant pressure to the UNCC goal without scoring. With 14 minutes to play, Ukrop made one of the greatest moves you could ever hope to see. With his back to the goal, he trapped a ball with his chest about 18 yards out, popped the ball to the left and spun in the same motion, and volleyed a rifle.

See "Soccer" on page 10

Take Big Apple By Storm
By Richard Wharton

The Davidson men’s and women’s cross country teams took to the urban jungle of New York City this weekend at the Hunter College Invitational, held at Van Cortlandt Park, on Saturday. Leaving on Friday afternoon, the top five runners on each team left Charlotte Douglas International to fly into the remnants of Tropical Storm Danielle, which battered the Northeast coast all weekend. After touring the site at which the race was being held, honorary host Peter Hurtado exposed the team to some of the finer things New York City has to offer the world, like WFAN (“The Fan”) sports radio. The mood was upbeat and tension-free for the Wildcats’ performance on Saturday. Sunrise on Saturday morning revealed harsh elements, with 35-40 mile per hour winds and sheets of rain that flew in the face of the runners. Visibility was limited, and the high winds served to challenge the runners with not just the wet and the cold, but also the flying debris which Van Cortlandt Park seemed to collect. In the women’s race, sophomore Elizabeth Bishop finished fifth overall, with a time of 20:47. Behind her came another sophomore, Carolyn Meadows. Freshman dynamo Marie Grisez followed Meadows. Venerable junior Lisa Sitek came in fourth for the team, and transfer Laura Jordan closed out the Davidson effort. The women took sixth place out of seventeen teams, and the feelings were good about performances and times, given the near-hurricane conditions and force ten winds. Following the women’s race, the Davidson men took a third.

See "Cross-Country" on page 10

Field Hockey Goes 3-1 With Sweep Of VCU and ASU
By Jennifer Roos

Davidson faced Virginia Commonwealth and Appalachian State this past weekend and was able to defeat each of them by a score of 1-0. Both games marked major accomplishments for the program. In the VCU game, the Wildcats played one of the best games in the history of the program. The game was extra-sweet for the Wildcats because they were beaten by the Rams last season by the score of 5-1. Davidson coach Betsy Pryor commented, “It was one of the best wins I have ever had as a coach. This game proves that we have risen to the next level of competition. This team is by far the best team that has ever played for Davidson.” The Rams were shocked, to say the least, by the play of the Wildcats because they came in expecting a blowout. Despite their coach yelling at them through much of the game, the visitors could not get going on offense due to the strong defensive play of Davidson halfbacks Erin Lang, Suzanne Hardesty, Jill Bennett, and Robin Pepper. At halftime the score was tied 0-0, and it remained that way until Missy Potts scored her second goal of the season with 14 minutes to go in the second half. She was immediately swarmed by her teammates congratulating her. After the goal, Davidson played on an emotional high, and successfully maintained their focus.

See "Hockey" on page 11