730 p.m. - 9:30 p.m., Dinner at the Screen
in the Boat

- Friday, September 11, 1992.
"Sarah Gayle's Birthday":
9:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m., This Is Spinal Tap, 900 room
Saturday, September 12, 1992
7:30 p.m. - 11:59 p.m. PUB NIGHT, 900 room.
Sunday, September 13, 1992:
8:15 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Barbara Hamilton - Viola, Hodson Hall.

This Davidsonian is one day late getting
to your doorstep only because unlike the
students and teachers here at Davidson
College, most people get Labor Day off so
the printers were closed. Enjoy!!

Honor

Continued from page 8

resolved for now. After many articles in the paper, forums, debates, and hours before the Student Conduct Council, the only change made was to enlarge the Council from eighteen members to thirty in order to include more students and to contribute to the new Judiciary Committee, designed to hear admitted Code of Responsibility cases.

Still, the mystique of the Council remains, hence the purpose of this, the first in a series of articles. It is my hope that you will read carefully each of these installations about the system. The members of the Honor Council do not want to be feared or resented; and there is no reason why any student should be in the dark about the system.

We are all working together to make this system operate. It is ours; and the Honor Council members want to make you, the active participants, feel familiar with all its workings. It is therefore my hope that you will grow in your comfort with and understanding of the Honor System. These columns represent an effort to make the system more accessible to you.

Let me first introduce to you the members of the Honor Council by class. These are your class representatives, chosen by you as some of the most qualified and respected students from among those nominated.

Seniors - Rachel Epps
Kathy Hetherington
Becky Hunter
Erin Lee
Laura Malenas
Alan Verm
David Wang
Juniors - Peter Amidon
Will Canu
Ward Davis
Molly Sentell
Sally Stone
Sophomores - Arthur Gaston
John Philpott
Casey Rogers

Obviously, there are no freshman representatives, for the simple reason that members of that class need time to grow into the community, find their respective niches, and get to know each other. Votes for their representatives can then be founded in a year of experience knowing their peers.

If you don’t know these people, make an effort to meet them. If you have any questions about the Honor System, please ask them; they are eager to heighten everyone’s awareness of and comfort with the Honor System.

THE DAVIDSONIAN - OPINIONS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

The Secretary of the Honor Council is Catherine Milligan (a Senior), and I (Matt Bumstead, if you haven’t picked that up yet) am the Chairman. We are the two executive officers of the Council and the two members most involved with the intricacies of the process. Please remember that we are always eager to hear questions, comments, complaints, and certainly compliments about the system.

As I close this introductory column, I urge you to continue reading these installments for the next few weeks. I will do my best to explain the system in detail. In addition, I ask that you take it upon yourselves to learn by performing one simple action: READ the Code. Don’t just read the sanctions or the Code of Responsibility. Read the whole blamed thing. It will only take twenty or so minutes and will answer many of your questions up front. Whether you have already read it, never have, or always say you have, please read it. Until next week, I thank you for your interest and welcome your comments.

Quote of the Week

"You don't need a party to drink"

-Leppy Roberts

*EARN EXTRA INCOME*
Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to:
Norman Crossin
Travel INC., PO Box 2530,
Miami FL 33161

RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS

Your Uncle Sam.

ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of talented students. If you qualify, these merit-based scholarships can help you pay tuition and educational fees. They even pay a flat rate for textbooks and supplies.

Every year Army ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of talented students. If you qualify, these merit-based scholarships can help you pay tuition and educational fees. They even pay a flat rate for textbooks and supplies.

You can also receive an allowance of up to $1000 each school year the scholarship is in effect. Find out today if you qualify.

For more information: Call 892-2165 or stop by the Department of Military Studies in Belk Hall.