12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992

DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Photo by Casey Rogers
Cornerback Alden Smith eludes a Centre defender during the Wildcats' 10-3 victory. Smith's interception sealed the win for the ‘Cats, who will finish the season next weekend at Bridgewater.

Smith's Interception Preserves Victory Over Colonels
‘Cats Up Record to 4-5
By Chris Hood

Richardson Field’s controls for the new scoreboard froze over Friday night, Davidson almost self-destructed with penalties, and kicker Drew Fassett missed the game with an injury. No wonder head coach Dave Fagg called the Wildcats’ 10-3 victory over Centre College Saturday “probably the ugliest, most wonderful win I’ve ever seen here.”

Davidson, now 4-5, survived a late drive by the Colonels when cornerback Alden Smith intercepted Chris Lyons in the end zone with 10 seconds remaining in the contest. Centre had driven from its 44 to the Davidson three and had been aided by two defensive penalties before Smith intervened to record his second interception of the afternoon.

Before the game, linebacker Leonel Benoist and offensive guard Philip Parks had a contest to see who would kick extra points and field goals in Fassett’s absence; fullback Bruce Bannister kicked off, and tight end Tim Carrigan handled punting duties. Benoist outkicked Parks, and he put the ‘Cats on the board in the first quarter with a 35-yard field goal.

“I'd kicked before in high school, but never here,” Benoist explained after the game. Ironically, Saturday’s match was the final home game for Benoist and the other Davidson seniors. “I was shaking when it was time for me to kick. I couldn’t stay still.”

Though the ‘Cats held the lead for the rest of the quarter, Centre added a field goal of its own with 6:56 remaining in the half. The Colonels used over six minutes on a 16-play, 57-yard drive which ended with Evan Hjerpe’s 25-yard field goal. Davidson had forced the visitors to punt twice earlier in the drive, but running into the kicker and holding penalties kept the ball in the Colonels’ hands.

After Hjerpe missed a 26-yard field goal attempt in the third quarter...

See "Smith" on page 10

By Jennifer Roos

The Davidson field hockey team celebrated Senior Day November 1 with a 3-0 victory over Appalachian State, the team’s second shutout win over the Mountaineers this season. Davidson dominated the first half by not allowing App State into its offensive circle. The ‘Cats scored their first goal on a penalty stroke by junior Erin Lang. She hit the back crossbar with a shot to the upper right-hand corner before the Mountaineer goalie could even react. The goal helped Lang earn honors as player of the game.

Later in the first half, senior Jenny Plowright scored on the second penalty stroke of the game with a low passing shot to the left, which also left the goalie helpless. The final goal came from freshman Nicole Ficeto in the second half and gave the ‘Cats a 3-0 lead. Sophomore Mary Ferguson held the Mountaineers scoreless in the second half to preserve the shutout.

The victory completed an undefeated (6-0-1) home season for the Wildcats. The five seniors honored be-

Field Hockey Whitewashes Appalachian State, 3-0

Photo by Casey Rogers
Monique Dockter slides the ball past a Mountaineerdefender, as for the game, have seen tremendous change in the program over the course of their careers. The year before their arrival, Davidson posted a 6-7-1 record. Since then, the Wildcats have posted double-figure win totals during four consecutive seasons. In addition, the senior class has helped propel the Davidson program into its first-ever top ten regional ranking and has accumulated a four-year record of 46-15-6. This weekend in Salisbury, the team went after its...

See "Hockey" on page 11

Men's Tennis Ends Fall Season With Win in Davidson Tourney
By Brannon Buck

The Davidson men’s tennis team, led by coach Jeff Frank and captains Albie Varoski and Dave Tonidandel, finished its fall season undefeated with a record, including tournament victories, of 8-0. Matches concluded the weekend of October 30, with Davidson winning its own tournament by defeating UNC-Greensboro and The Citadel. The Wildcats also won a tournament in Spartanburg, S.C., a week earlier by dominating teams from Wofford, Presbyterian, and Furman.

Coach Frank was pleased with his team’s play throughout the fall. “I felt that we got a good effort out of everyone on the team,” he said, “I was particularly pleased with our doubles play, and I am looking forward to cranking up for the spring.”

The future should only be better for the Wildcats, as three members of the team who did not participate in the fall will return in the spring. Among them is David Jesperson, who won the Big South Conference Championship at the number two position last year. Despite that outlook, though, Frank stresses that the team has a lot of work to do in order to prepare for a spring season that includes several top twenty opponents as well as a season-opening tournament at UNC Chapel Hill.

Netters Dominate UT-Chattanooga
By Laura Long

The Davidson volleyball team soundly defeated the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga Friday night in three straight games, 15-7, 15-7, 15-5. The Wildcats, playing this Southern Conference match at home, jumped to an early lead in the first game and maintained dominance throughout the match.

Setter Lorie Logan directed a balanced offense and had 30 assists. Janet Delery notched 12 kills for the match, and Michele Augustin hit for an impressive .428 average with eight kills and one error in 21 attempts. Katherine Anderson also contributed eight kills. Wagner and Amy Howard sparked the Wildcats from the service line with two service aces each.

Head coach Carolyn Blake was especially pleased with Davidson’s defense, saying, “We had to change up our defense to accommodate UTC’s unusual hitting patterns, and we adjusted nicely.” The Wildcats’ strong defense began at the net, where Anderson and Howard put up a strong block in the middle (five and three blocks, respectively). The backcourt defense was led by Augustin’s nine digs and Wagner’s eight digs. Senior Jennie Wagner stressed the importance of the team’s intensity and said, “Our momentum really carried us through the match. We minimized our mistakes and dominated on offense.”

The Wildcats continue their Southern Conference schedule as they face Appalachian State at home Wednesday at 7:00 p.m.

Home Athletic Events: November 9-16
Wednesday, November 11: Volleyball v. Appalachian State, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, November 14: Women’s Swimming v. Pfeiffer/Salem, 10:00 a.m.