THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

Allison Continued from page 1

contiguous.” He also believes the United States will go through a period of disappointment in terms of peace while the
focus of attention remains trained on domestic problems. Meanwhile, Allison emphasized the United States must become more assertive and more
demanding of the republics of the former Soviet Union, especially in terms of dismantling nuclear weapons. The foremost problem confronting
American and Russian policymakers alike is that events in the Soviet republics are occurring so rapidly and parameters are evolving
so drastically nobody has time to understand the repercussions of the changes. Also, the current Russian government is facing considerable
opposition from within its ranks in addition to the dilemma of formulating a reform policy favorable to Western support. If
Boris Yeltsin remains in power he favors “burying communism, he is reserved about the use of force, and he is
eager for good relations with the United States.”

The tragic decline of the economy of the republics is another problem facing the Clinton administration, since Allison feels there
will most certainly be a collapse of their economy in 1993 which will prevent implementation of the International Monetary Fund
program. Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, there has been a twenty-seven percent decline in production, a greater decline
than occurred in three years of the United States’ Great Depression, according to Allison. Finally, security will pose many problems
to the United States, especially since there remain three thousand nuclear warheads on alert and targeted at the United States
in three of the republics. Although six thousand tactical nuclear weapons have been brought back to storage in Russia since
August 1991, there are even problems arising in this republic. Allison said that there is a decreasing chain of command
over these nuclear weapons in Russia and there is “an increasing chain of chilling events.” Also, despite the capacity, the
rate of dismantlement and destruction of these weapons has not increased because the United States has not provided them with
incentives, says Allison.

Allison used four metaphors to further enhance comprehension of the existing situation in the republics. He referred to the coup
as a continuing revolution in the tradition of the French Revolution, paralleling this year to 1793 which precluded six years
of “bloodletting.”

On October 18, a Davidson student noticed all four tires of his automobile slashed. No one has been charged with
the crime. The tires were valued at $350.

A resident of NBC 303 reported a stolen bicycle. The girl’s 10-speed Peugeot was unsecured and parked beside the handicap
ramp.

FOR EXTRA-THICK CRUST, PIE IN THE SKY HAND ROLLED AND TOSSED NEW YORK STYLE PIZZA SERVE A MEDIUM-THICK CRUST. WE'LL
BE GLAD TO ACCOMMODATE YOU. LET US KNOW WHEN YOU ORDER PIZZA IF YOU PREFER A THIN CRUST.

Sandwiches, Beer & More! WED.-THURS. FREE DELIVERY 11 AM-10 PM 125-2 N. Main St, Mooresville 663-7189

Classifieds

PERFECTION-CONNECTION OFFICE SERVICES We Type Resumes, Theses & Term Papers. Pick-Up & Delivery Available.

-STUDENT WANTED- to take care of 2 boys, ages 7 & 10. Hours: 3:30-6:30, 3 days a week. Supervising homework
& outdoor activities. Ask for Anna. 892-1744 after 6:30 PM.

HORSES BOARDED- Excellent facilities near lake campus. Full care. $190 per month.month. 892-0247 664-9346

Why Aren't You Filling This Space? The Davidsonian Classifieds.

ting” before Napoleon even came to power in 1799. The collapse of empire must also be considered, said Allison, as
a catalyst for problems not only within the former empire but also for its neighbors. Disintegration of authority is another
force which can lead either to an authoritarian regime or civil wars, says Allison. As Allison says, there is “growing
fatigue with the long, hard march of reform.” The solution lies in eliminating the dangers to Western security posed by
the remaining nuclear weapons in the republics. Allison asserts there is “no magical locking device” on these weapons should they
end up in terrorist hands or in international arms bazaars. The United States, according to Allison, needs to act now
while the Russians are still willing to negotiate. Immediate action will be difficult for a new American administration. Finding a
method for holding the Russians accountable for the destruction of these weapons will also be very difficult for Clinton’s administration,
but it is what Allison feels must be done now to assure these weapons remain in responsible hands.

Spratt Continued from page 6

won’t feel as if they need their own. According to Spratt, America needs to remove the threat of nuclear weapons.
He cited as a goal a reduction from 23,000 warheads to 3,500, and emphasized the importance of taking inventory and
keeping a full account on dismantled weapons. In the post-Cold War era, attention to details and demobilization are extremely important.
History is calling on America to assert its place in the new world order. Bill Clinton, Spratt feels, came at
a good time because he has a vision for the future which George Bush lacks. Clinton will pay attention to
details and strengthen America’s role in the world economy. Spratt closed his address by emphasizing the importance of America’s ability
to cooperate with the post-Cold War world and face the dawn of a new world order.

Gift Continued from page 2

tangible gift where something must be bought, often within a relatively short period of time. Last year the committee developed
three payment options to reach the gift goal. The “Graduate Student Plan” suggests a $25 donation by one year after
graduation, with a $10 increase every year for the remaining four. The “Working Plan” suggests an initial gift of $30,
with around a $15 increase every year for the remaining four. The “Alenda Plan” suggests a $50 initial gift, with
a $25 increase every year for the remaining four.

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES $3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM

I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS 892-3841

Bram Stoker's Dracula 3:30, 7:00, 9:30
"PURE COUNTRY" (PG) 3:05, 5:10, 7:15, 9:25
3:10, 5:20, 7:20, 9:25
"CONSENTING ADULTS" 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25
The Mighty Ducks 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25
Candyman 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:25
Mr. Baseball 3:05, 7:20
A River Runs Through It 3:30, 7:00, 9:30

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

PREREQUISITE: ADRENALINE

Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're likely to see in many course requirements. Then again, Army ROTC is unlike any
other elective. It's hands-on excitement. ROTC will challenge you mentally and physically through intense leadership training. Training that builds character,
self-confidence, and decision-making skills. Again, words other courses seldom use. But they're the credits you need to succeed in life.
ROTC is open to freshmen and sophomores without obligation and requires about 4 hours per week. Register this term for
Army ROTC.

MIL 101 "The U.S. Army Today" Spring Semester Schedule Thursday 1:00 - 1:50 Preregister Now
