THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

Grades Continued from page 1

from students with averages in the 90 to 93 or 94 range, grades that would have been A’s in the
old system. Hernandez agreed, arguing that a system that hurts the better students should be reevaluated. Hernandez also disliked the
idea that Davidson should adopt a grading system that is popular nationwide. “I have heard Davidson being compared continually to
other people. It makes me wonder if we want to change our mascot’s name to Monkey Bird or something,” he
said.

In making his statement, Long stopped to reiterate one point: “In most cases (in all cases, one would hope), the
professor will adjust to the new system so that there is no significant difference in the overall distribution of his
or her grades.”

Most of the arguments against the new system are based on the assumption that grades will fall. The Registrar has
provided data to help determine if grades will in fact fall because of the system. However, panelists on both sides
acknowledged that there is simply not enough data to provide an accurate indication of the minus system’s effect on students’
grades. Still, the preliminary data produced by the Registrar indicates that the new system’s effect on GPA is negligible. The
Davidson cumulative GPA decreased by less than .1 of a grade point. Many argue that such a decrease is too
slim to be significant, and that, after taking other factors into account, there is no real proof that the minus
system was primarily responsible for the drop.

Burns, however, speculated that the slight decrease might be due to the fact that many professors did not adjust their
grading scale to the new system. For instance, a professor could have given a B+ to a student thinking of
the B+ of the old system (worth 3.5 grade points). The unlucky student this semester received 3.0 grade points for
that B+.

Sisler argued that “no difference [in grades], however slight, is negligible,” and that any decrease should be grounds for reevaluation
of the system. She also argued that there is really no need for the finer distinctions that the new system
allows, and expressed concern about lower GPAs’ effect on students that are applying to graduate schools. She reiterated the argument
that the system penalizes “A” students, maintaining that asking students at Davidson to get a 93 to earn an “A”
is asking too much.

Finally, John Morris prefaced his comments by saying that he believed that the minus system is here to stay. Given
that, he supported minor adjustments to the new system, such as lowering the numerical value of an A- from 90
to 88 or 89.

Some students have argued that lower grades due to the minus system will lessen their chances of being accepted to
law school. Actually, the new system will probably have little effect. The main reason is that a national service, the
LSDAS, adjusts all the different grade scales and systems from different universities around the country into one scale, and then
sends the changed GPA’s on to Law Schools. The Davidsonian also talked to law school admissions officials at the University
of Georgia, Chapel Hill, and Virginia. Elizabeth Furr, Assistant Dean of Admissions at Chapel Hill, indicated that she never considered
Davidson’s grades inflated in the past. She assured this reporter that because the admissions committee takes into account class rank
and the excellent performance of Davidson graduates in the past, the minus system will have little effect on the admission
of future Davidson applicants. Dr. Marc Galvin, Director of Student Affairs at the law school at Georgia, had a similar
opinion. He indicated that Davidson has always been well thought of, and that the new grading system’s effect on grades
would have little effect on admission of Davidson students to the law school. The Virginia admissions office would not comment
on their process of admission.

Although the data indicate that the GPA of the average Davidson student will not change drastically by the switch, students
on scholarship might well be affected significantly. Some students will have to now make higher grades to maintain a certain
GPA. That grade difference can mean the loss of badly needed money on the part of students. Matt Bumstead, a
member of the audience, asked if those GPA requirements might be lowered, Long answered “possibly.” According to professor Long, problems
of adjustment to the new system—should they be confirmed by further evidence—will probably come under review at faculty meetings.

The new system was not hastily considered and implemented. On January 17, 1989, a request was made by a faculty
member for the Educational Policy Committee (the committee where policy changes of this kind must originate) to consider the minus
system, and it was later considered and sent on for the faculty to hear.Before the faculty voted on the new
policy, a forum was held by the SGA to discuss the issue (fall of the 89-90 academic year). Finally, on
March 7, 1990, the faculty heard the policy and approved it by a 40 to 29 vote. The faculty subsequently
decided to wait and implement the policy in the fall of the 91-92 academic year. Despite the arguments that surfaced
at the forum last Wednesday, the policy will probably not be reversed. Based on his impressions of the opinion of
the faculty as a whole, Professor Long said there was “not much” of a chance of the faculty considering a
return to the old system at this time. Dean Williams also does not foresee a reconsideration of the new system,
at least not until 4 or 5 years have passed so that differences can be studied thoroughly and effectively. Still,
SGA President Cammie Covington and Registrar Sue Ross emphasized that students do have a voice, if not a vote, in
decisions such as these, and encouraged them to use it. Long did observe that the forum itself was “keeping the
issue alive” for future discussion and reevaluation. Two students have seats on the Educational Policy Committee, the committee where any
policy change like the minus grade system must originate.

Alpha Continued from page 1

nent of a fraternity such as A Phi A for three years, said that many students feel that Patterson Court
fails to represent a lot of the diversity and culture that exists in the Davidson community, and that with the
creation of this fraternity, many holes will be filled. “We haven’t done enough for the Davidson community. With many minorities
and whites from ‘across the tracks’ in the college’s workforce and in Davidson and Cornelius, the college needs to tie-in
to them somehow. A Phi A will provide that tie-in,” said McCallister. McCallister went on to say that, although Davidson
promises a complete liberal arts education, its students often fail to take advantage of the diversity that exists on campus.
With A Phi A, he said, Davidson will truly produce well-rounded individuals. Dean John Eaves said that students felt they
needed a way to “associate with family and friends who have A Phi A or other black fraternity backgrounds. Not
only,” he said, “will A Phi A give its members a tie-in to the community, but it will also give
its members a nationwide connection wherever they may go.” When asked about the effect A Phi A may have on
the enrollment of black students at Davidson, Eaves said, “This will have an immediate positive effect. When students look at
a school they look for something to identify with. Often students are less inclined to enroll when that identification is
not immediate. A Phi A will bring a definite added enticement to these students.” At the moment, not all of
the prospective members are African-American. A few white students, as well as one Hispanic student, have shown interest in the
fraternity. A Phi A’s creation passed unanimously when brought up before the CCRL (Committee on Campus and Religious Life), and
was also given the go-ahead backing from President Kuykendall. It expects to be given its official charter from the national
organization within the next three to four weeks. A Phi A will share the BSC’s house for its functions, but
will be a separate entity from the BSC.

GET $1.00 OFF The Purchase Of A FOOTLONG ROASTED CHICKEN BREAST SUB CORNELIUS LOCATION Offer good at participating SUBWAY Norman
Crossing — Not good in combination with any other offer.

Buy Any Footlong Sub And A Medium Drink And Get A Regular Footlong Sub Of Equal Or Lesser Price For
99¢ Norman Crossing, Cornelius

HELP WANTED Need someone for part-time child care in home. For information call Kim Berry at 892-9944

FOUNTAIN OPTICAL Fountain Plaza, Hwy. 73 W., Cornelius 892-9117 LAKE NORMAN'S PREMIERE OPTICAL & BOUTIQUE. ON-SITE LABORATORY EDWARD R. STUKBAUER,
F.N.A.O. LICENSED OPTICIAN OPTICAL LABORATORY ASSOCIATION FIGURES SHOW WE ARE THE #1 SUPPLIER OF ‘POLAROID’ PRESCRIPTION SUNWEAR IN THE COUNTRY.
GENUINE 'NORITAR’ MAKES ALL OTHER SUNGLASSES OBSOLETE. OUR SCRATCH COATED CR-39-OUR GUARANTEE AGAINST SCRATCHING-OUR OPTIMA THE WEIGHT & THICKNESS OF
REGULAR LENSES. SUPERIOR TO THE POLYCARBONATE LENSES. PROGRESSIVE, AN INVISIBLE POWER LENS WITH 3 TIMES THE BIFOCAL AREA OF ANY
OTHER. INCREDIBLE NEW WALACH INVISIBLE BIFOCAL. BECAUSE YOU-TALK TO US. WE MAKE IT EASY.

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300 LSAT * GMAT * GRE
* MCAT
