THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

Student Goes Weaving Through Kenya
By Weave Whitehead

Can you imagine playing soccer with a cheetah? Or restraining the legs of a giraffe fifteen feet tall? Well, neither could I until I went to the School for Field Studies’ Center for Wildlife Management in Kenya. I spent last semester studying wildlife management and ecology and then returned during the summer as an intern with the school. The two experiences, as a student and as a staff member, were totally different, yet equally enlightening and entertaining.

Before I tell my story, I will give a little background about the study site. The Center for Wildlife Management Studies is located on a game ranch in the Athi-Kapiti Plains about forty miles southeast of Nairobi. The ranch was started by Dr. David Hopcraft as an experiment in sustainable utilization of wildlife. The land is predominately grassland with scattered Acacia trees. Many species of ungulates (hoofed mammals) and birds live within the fenced ranch. There are no large predators, though. Because the ranch is in the southern hemisphere, the seasons are opposite from ours. The average afternoon temperature from January to April was about 90 degrees (there is virtually no humidity, though, so this was not uncomfortable). Our camp was without electricity (except for a small generator to power some laptop computers) so we were dependent on the sun to dry our clothes and heat our water. The living arrangements were thatched roofed huts called bandas, with four students to each one.

In late January, thirty students gathered in the Boston airport with a common destination, the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, Kenya. We cautiously approached one another, introducing ourselves and discussing our expectations. We arrived in Nairobi, about thirty hours later, in the dark of night and were loaded into Land Rovers for the journey to the ranch. Though I was weary from the traveling, my mind was in overdrive, trying to absorb everything.

Somewhere along the dark highway leading out of Nairobi, we were stopped by large metal spikes in the road and men carrying machine guns. As our driver slowed down, silence overcame us just in time to hear her mutter, “Uh-oh.” As the men approached the Land Rover from a small fire built beside the road, my heart raced. I found myself clenching my backpack and hoping that these men would only take our belongings, not kill us. As three circled the car, one man spoke to the driver in a language that sounded like a string of consonants. Strangely, we were allowed to proceed. I later realized that police checkpoints such as this are a common occurrence on Kenyan highways.

After unloading our bags, we were allowed a few hours of sleep and then the course began. Students take four classes during the semester course. Wildlife Management and Biology covers everything from the digestive physiology of ruminants to mammal census techniques to

202 South Main Street Davidson 896-8700

Tinkham's is proud to feature BOMA sterling silver antique reproduction jewelry, Wild Bryde gold plate, environmentally supportive jewelry, and vintage costume JEWELRY. ALL PRICED TO FIT A STUDENT'S BUDGET

Tinkham's Curiosity Shop
Tuesday-Friday 10-4
Saturday 10-3Fence-building. Wildlife Ecology addressed broader topics like African climatology and population genetics. In Ecological Anthropology, we studied African cultures and their interactions with wildlife and conservation. The last class is a directed research project. I chose to study the diversity and composition of bird species on the ranch.

During a typical day "on campus," we would wake up about 6:30. The mornings were usually allotted as research time. My research consisted of going to different habitat types on the ranch and bird watching (an activity I previously thought was reserved for old people). Not only did I learn to identify birds, but I was able to observe many other animals as I wandered through the savanna. During the afternoon, when the sun was at full strength, we settled down to our open-air classroom for lectures. After dinner, prepared by students, we either studied or sat around a fire and discussed issues such as the morality of wildlife intervention.

From Tuesday to Sunday, we followed this basic routine, but Monday was "Town Day." Every Monday we were given the opportunity to go into Nairobi to shop, eat, and call home. Three times during the semester, we loaded the Land Rovers and went on safari. Our first safari was to the Masai Mara Game Reserve. This is the Kenyan portion of the Serengeti Plains, famous for the migration of 1.4 million wildebeest and associated zebra and gazelle. Unfortunately, the masses of wildebeest were not there, but the Reserve was not without wildlife. Lions, cheetahs, Cape buffalo, rhinos, elephants, and, of course, the birds gave us ample opportunity to look and learn.

After leaving the Masai Mara, we journeyed to Lake Nakuru National Park, "Home of a Million Flamingos." Lake Nakuru is a shallow soda lake. The lake and surrounding forests are teeming with birds. The mammals there, on the other hand, have been subject to massive die-offs in recent years.

The second safari took us to Tsavo and Amboseli National Parks. Tsavo, the largest park in Kenya, is dominated by dense shrubland, making animal observation challenging. The "feature attraction" in Tsavo is Mzima Springs, a natural spring that is home to a colony of hippopotamuses, crocodiles, and more birds. The road from Tsavo to Amboseli is easily the worst road on which I have ever traveled. Though the trip is only about forty miles, it took almost seven hours. Because the road runs closely to the Tanzanian border, there is a possibility of bandit attacks, so an armed guard is required in every car. This, my second encounter with a gun-toting Kenyan, was much less frightening than the first.

Upon arriving in Amboseli, I was shocked by the condition of the land. The park is quickly becoming a desert. A large population of Africa’s most destructive animal, the elephant, is widely regarded as the cause. Sadly, Kenya is at an impasse as to management of their elephants. Amboseli Park is 380 km² and has an elephant population of almost 700. This is entirely too high. The government cannot cull the animals for fear of losing tourism, yet, if nothing is done, the elephants will de-

See "Kenya" on page 5