THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

Gull's Nest ... Bill Gullan

On Not Knowing What to Write About

I like writing a column, but I really don’t like taxing my mind. When the time comes every week, I
put on Sinatra, look out the window, and it comes to me. No luck this week. I went to the
smoking room of the library, but it was too hot. I asked liberal friends of mine to get me riled
up, but that too failed. I asked for suggestions from people on my hall, on the hall below, in the
lunch line, and even the paintball guy who kept pestering me to buy tickets. It just wasn’t going to happen
this week.

Sure, I could blame Frampton for giving me too little time, I could blame the soccer team and drop/add for
stealing the attention from the normal issues, or I could even blame the stress of exams (although it hasn’t really
hit me). I’ve learned that when you have a mental and intellectual contradiction to check your premises. One has to
look beneath the consequences and to the causes. Why don’t I have an idea this week?

It could be that there aren’t any burning issues on campus. I could have chosen to attack apathy, but I
am basically apathetic about everything except politics and the two-party system (one in the morning and one at night). Come
to think of it, there is apathy on this campus. However, apathy is often good. Instead of turning molehills into
mountains and bitching (I guess I can use this word) about every little thing, we reserve our wrath for such
important issues as Bonus Bucks.

I’ve spoken to friends whose campuses have demonstrations and violence and all that kind of stuff. It would be an
experience to go to that type of place, but would one be able to study, party, and exist in relative
solitude? I would also end up being killed for having a mouth bigger than my biceps. Our kind of apathy
is not indifference, but self-control.

I might have writer’s block this week because I refuse to complain in print. If you have a problem, go
to the person who can solve it. The letter to the editor regarding me this semester is a pure example
of my point. It is very cowardly to wait a week and write a letter to the newspaper instead of
walking up two flights of steps and confronting something or someone you find offensive. I had a beef with one
of the Humanities lecturers, and I discussed it with him. That is how to find a solution, or at least
be heard.

Drop/add is a pain, optional classes are not optional, the alcohol policy is confusing at best, and Clinton is going
to be a total disaster; but if one writes a column or letter about these problems, it usually winds up
being a newspaper dialog with no actual discussion and no solution reached. Nobody wants to listen to a constant complainer.

I’m sorry that I have had little to offer this week besides a running narration of my thought process. Anyway,
good luck to the guy’s soccer team, take your problems to the right places, and take pride in your apathy.

Lind Continued from page 4

Countenance of Dr. Sentelle, take another right and head back to your carrel. Or if you’re a fitness nut, try
multiple floors: down the steps, past CHAL and the happy reference librarians, hang a left, then a right, and say
hello to Dr. Holland. Through the magazines, back up the stairs and to your seat for a quick breather.

5. One of my favorites: trying to make something out of the wood-grain designs in your carrel. Kind of like
cloud-gazing. Carrel-gazing.

6. Talking to people. Hey, if I can’t get something done, why should anyone else? It’s called “Dropping the Curve.”

7. Attempt to understand the titles on the foreign books surrounding you. Or try to figure out why someone would
write some of the English ones.

8. Check the second-floor directory to see what clever messages the work-study students have been able to construct from the
available letters.

9. If you’re feeling rebellious, import food items from the emo or smoker's lounge.

10. Lose weight. Is it just me, or has the library turned into a sauna? Just watch the pounds drip
away and the writing blur on the page.

Well, I’m stressed from all this study avoidance. Think I'll take a break.

Spear lines up for the free kick deep in N.C. State’s own zone. He hits it, sending the ball just
to the corner of the six where it falls, bounces off about three players and finally settles in front of
Rob Ukrop who simply pushes the ball into the goal. Every player on the field immediately turns around, running toward
the fence to hug the crowd which is jumping over the fence to hug the players. I charge into the
oncoming red jerseys slowing up to jump Craig Omli (one of the cutest players, don’t you think girls?) when a
Charlotte Observer photographer captures the essence of what makes this Davidson soccer team so good: me. The next day they
pay homage by putting my picture (with a few other inconsequential people in the background) on the front page of
the whole paper.

Well, ok, maybe I’m not responsible for the team's success, but I know I have something to do with it.Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

It, because every time one of them gets the ball a few hundred Davidson students and I tell him what
to do with it. Plus, I know I must be a member of the team because I think I might
blow chunks on the three closest people every time we get near the goal or Deegan (he’s cute, too, huh?)
does some Spiderman thing to save a shot. Truly it is a great feeling to be able to watch such
a wonderful spectacle. Never did I think that a Davidson team would be in the position the guys’ soccer team
is. They can win the National Championship (knock on wood). I mean everybody starts off the season with the possibility
of winning the thing, but teams like Coastal, UCLA, Duke, State, and San Diego can never say they had a
legitimate chance at the thing. Plus they pay their players. Ours pay the school to allow them to play Davidson
soccer. Oh, and they get an alright education between practices. I remember walking to the UNCC field from the parking
lot, which is further away than satellite is from Belk, and thinking that this was the real McCoy. There were
so many people. Police had to direct traffic and the line to the ladies’ bathroom actually came out of the
door. This weekend will be the same. I don’t know if you’ve ever been in the bathrooms at Richardson Field,
but they don’t hold eight thousand people. Maybe they could bring in some of those blue things. I don’t know
why I’m writing about this either. Basically, I just wanted to thank the soccer players for making this such an
exciting season. It is a treat to watch them play, taking out schools five times our size that receive scholarships.
It brings a certain pride to Davidson to have one of our teams perform on a national level. It is
appreciated. Now, I can’t wait for basketball, where I hope the team can pull off the same sort of dreams.
Then I want diving and swimming, tennis, field hockey, rugby, football, baseball, golf, women’s soccer and basketball, wrestling, and debate
to do the same sort of thing.

Travis Hinson and Rafael Candelario: Brothers on Hookin’

T-Yo Rafrod, have you ever hooked?

R-HOOKED!!??? Not to my knowledge!

T-You mean to tell me that you have never went down... on the court of course, to party and get
lucky enough to find some drunk female, lure her back to your room and have your way with her?

R-Yo Rock, you must be crazy! First of all, due to obvious reason(s) I’m not as fortunate as my fellow
Davidson classmates. And secondly, I will never, and have never taken advantage of a drunk woman, even when I had
the chance. That is dangerous. Mr. Charlie would throw me underneath the jail!

T-I congratulate you on not taking advantage of any poor drunken souls; however, for some of my other classmates, I
wonder where your morals are. If you thought of the young lady as someone’s little sister, maybe even your own,
you would think twice about your actions.

R-Word! But you know what amazes me? My female friends complain 24/7 about how the guys treat them like crap,
but still here comes the weekend and where do they go? Yep, straight to the court! And by Monday, you
can go to any male hall or frat and hear who did what! Then the next weekend approaches and the
women put themselves through that torture once again!

T-I guess it’s true what they say (whoever the hell "they" are!), that nice guys finish last. But Raf’, tell
the truth, I know you’ve had some play haven’t you??!!

R-Well... O.K., aside from the three women I dated here, I kissed two Davidson women on the court in the
last 3 1/2 years. And yes, it was totally random, but I did not make the first move, and they
were not drunk.

T-Pure curiosity, my lonely friend. And Mr. Charlie knows about that desire to engage in hooking (not that it’s an
option) or anything else the court offers, from a BLACK perspective, the social life at Davidson really doesn’t have much
to offer.

R-Maybe not, but we always have our books! And they’re our friend to the very end. Oh, I’d like to
send a shout out to the soccer team. Congrats! By the way, the BSC would have volunteered to usher like
the other houses and organizations, but just like court tours we were left out and not asked which makes us
look like separatists.

T-Sho ya right! We know the players had nothing to do with it. It’s like I told you last week
Raf, it’s a conspiracy by Mr. Charlie. (Not Coach Slagle.) One more thing people, the next time you feel like
hookin’, watch out ‘cause they might be cooking!!! (*Condoms are NOT 100% effective against AIDS.)

*Source: Chicago Sun Times, September 17, 1989

Quote of the Week: "If we score a goal, I mean it's gonna feel so Poe and that's all we
need is one goal, that's the game, so let's just bust ass." -Craig Omli, speaking to the rest of the
soccer team minutes before the winning goal at N.C. State
