6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992

Longtime German Professor, Julius S. Winkler, Dies
By Kevin Mi

Julius S. Winkler, longtime German Professor at Davidson, died at the age of 60 in his home on November 1, 1992. Born in Lenoir, North Carolina, he graduated from Lenoir High School where he received honors in music and journalism. He attained his bachelor’s degree from Ohio Wesleyan College, where he was elected Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. Upon graduation, he spent a year in Tuebingen, Germany on a Fulbright Scholarship, and then he went on to earn his Ph.D. in Germanic languages and literature from Princeton University.

After teaching for a time at the University of Mississippi and at Winthrop College, Winkler joined the faculty of Davidson in 1961. Throughout his extended career at Davidson, he served as the chairman of the German Department, he was a member of the Faculty Executive Committee (as well as many other committees), and he twice took Junior Year abroad students to Marburg, Germany. Also, Winkler served as the faculty advisor and stalwart for the expired college literary magazine, The Davidson Miscellany. Through his efforts, this student-run magazine ran from the mid-60s to the mid-80s, and it received subscribers from all over the nation. The magazine itself contained literary works from members of the Davidson community as well as authors from elsewhere.

Outside of his life at Davidson, Winkler received numerous prizes for his poetry, short stories, and translations. His works were printed in many regional publications such as Cairn, Cold Mountain Review, and Southern Poetry Review. His poem “Walker” was included in the book Poets Pick of Charlotte (1976), an anthology of local poetry sponsored by the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce and Queens College. His poem “Hunt” was included in the book Contemporary Poetry of North Carolina (1977), an anthology of budding North Carolina writers edited by Guy Owen and Mary C. Williams. In this book, Winkler was placed in a class that included the great North Carolina writer Randall Jarrell. His one book, The Ghost in the Dog Trot, was published in 1975 by the Briarpatch Press (the same company that published the two books about Davidson written by deceased librarian Mary Beaty). It was through this book of poetry that his extreme love for the outdoors and fishing shined.

As all of his friends knew, Winkler was an excellent fly fisherman (so good, in fact, that he taught beginners), an excellent golfer (a low handicapper), and an excellent musician (his achievements in high school with the baritone and the trombone earned him the nickname “Gabe,” short for Gabriel).

On Friday, November 13, at 8:15 in Hodson Hall, Music Professor Jennifer Stasack will lead an ensemble of seventy students and faculty who will read poems to music. Included among the poems are a few of Winkler’s works. Winkler is survived by his wife Ellen, his son John, and his two daughters, Laura and Elisabeth. Additional acknowledgements to Professors Frank Bliss and Gill Holland.

Not Me, Sweetlips, or Why I Fly-fish

truck sign: have gravel will travel - redneck paladin

II. gravel, he said, variant of grapple he’d graveled him a two-pound trout on Bodite’s Fork ‘low the falls - dozing trout (catfish too, for that) are sensualists: tickle their bellies, no funny moves, and you’ve got ‘em graveled (or grabbled, another variant) with a thrust through the gills

III. ‘not me, sweetlips, not with my record poking into holes under streambed rocks I'd grabble me a corpsy leg or at best a two-pound water moccasin two hundred miles from its swamp - J. S. Winkler

7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. “Gourmet Society Dinner”

10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. “An Evening with…”

Saturday, November 14, 1992

9:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m. Pop film Breakfast at Tiffany's in the 900 Room

NCAA Region III at Bernal

Davidson Football "Pearl" plays at Bridgewater College.

8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Innovations for Health Care in the 900 Room.

9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Republican Caucus in the Big Screen Room.

10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Parent workshop in the Chambers Gallery

4:00 p.m. Volleyball match vs. Marshall University

8:00 p.m. - 11:59 p.m. Pub Night in the 900 Room

Soccer Continued from page 1

Terry to tee off from 10 yards out. But Davidson dominated the balance of the half offensively, tying the game at 20:05 when Cliff Castelloe volleyed in Tommy Suter’s cross to the right side of the goal. At 29:30, Castelloe sprinted down the right sideline to steal a ball, took it to the corner, and crossed it to Ben Hayes, who punched it in for a 2-1 lead. Davidson had a number of very good chances to put the game away in the first half, but could not do it. Rob Ukrop twice hit the crossbar with headers. “It seemed like we hit every part of the crossbar.”and the keeper,” he said. The Mountaineers asserted themselves a bit more in the second half, but Wildcat goalie Alex Deegan had all the answers. On one of those answers, late in the game, Deegan appeared to tackle an App State player to prevent him from scoring, and ASU might have been awarded a penalty kick that could have tied the game. But no call was made, and Davidson scored shortly thereafter to make it 3-1. On that play, Ukrop received the ball on the right side near midfield, and streaked to his left and down the middle. Hayes, onsides and cutting through the center of the box ahead of Ukrop, yelled “Put it through,” and after a pause Ukrop did. Hayes beat the keeper to earn the two-goal cushion.

The whole experience rather agreed with Ukrop, who was, not surprisingly, voted Southern Conference player of the year. “That was fun,” he said after winning the game and giving Slagle the celebratory Gatorade shower. Ukrop was joined on the conference first team by midfielder Matt Spear and Omli. Ukrop is considered a strong candidate for national player of the year honors. Deegan, Castelloe, and John Sampers were named to the All-SC second team. Slagle was duly honored as conference coach of the year. The tournament championship was his first in 13 seasons as coach at Davidson.

A recap of the games preceding Sunday’s final follows: Davidson closed out its regular season schedule November 1 at Marshall, in a game made more difficult by the artificial turf playing surface. The two teams were tied 1-1 with just 22 minutes remaining before the Wildcats exploded, scoring five goals in just over 15 minutes to win 6-1. Castelloe gave the ‘Cats a 1-0 halftime lead with a tailor-made turf goal, a low, hard, skidding shot from 25 yards out. The Thundering Herd equalized on a penalty kick in the 67th minute, apparently rousing Davidson from its slumber. Sampers made it 2-1 with a rebound of a shot by Ukrop, and was credited with the goal when a Marshall defender found his own goal to make it 3-1. Ukrop scored twice and Andy Haile once to complete the scoring. Above all else, Slagle was just happy to be done with turf games. He called the game “a pretty good effort by everybody. It’s so foreign to these guys to play on turf that I’m always glad when it’s over.”

That win earned the ‘Cats a return engagement with the Herd in the opening round of the Southern Conference Tournament. The two teams met at 10 a.m. on Friday in the very first game of the tournament, and one of the consequences of the early start was that the field was not quite ready for play. As play began, the groundskeeper was still painting the sidelines; by the time he finished, Davidson had settled the outcome. Goals by Sampers, Suter, and Ukrop in the first nine minutes decided things, and four goals by Haile topped off a 9-1 win. Spear and Hayes also scored. Haile, known affectionately to his teammates as “Meat,” notched his four goals in a span of roughly 30 minutes in the second half, twice dribbling past the goalkeeper to score on an open net. “Meat” revealed after the game that the motivation for his outburst was less than conventional; “[trainer] Scott Applegate was yelling at me,” he said, “and I had to shut him up.”

In the second round Saturday afternoon, the Wildcats met a VMI team which it had beaten 7-1 in the regular season, and Slagle was as concerned, as much as anything else, about keeping his regulars rested and injury-free. A frustrated group of Keydets, in the process of being thrashed in their final game of the year, played quite physically in the second half, but Davidson remained injury-free and won the game 5-0 on the strength of a Ukrop hat trick. Ukrop scored on a penalty kick 6:14 into the game and on a rebound shot, assisted by Hayes and Phelps Sprinkle, 14:15 in to make it 2-0 at half. He was given credit for a goal scored by a VMI defender with 28 minutes to play. The goal was Ukrop’s 30th of the season (a Davidson record), 75th of his career (a Davidson record), and boosted his nation-leading point total to 69 points. In the 68th minute, Hayes received the ball at the top left corner of the box, dribbled cleverly past the goalie, and tucked the ball inside the near post with a left-footed shot to make it 4-0. The ‘Cats got their last one on a beautifully-executed corner kick play, with Omli heading in a cross to the far post by Sampers.

Values Continued from page 3

death, Throop’s discussion frequently referred back to one point: tolerance. Even the anti-realist understands that, “one man’s values are just as good as another’s, although one who is success-oriented has more to offer than a couch potato.”