THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

(On the Sports Front: Bruce Balestier)

Davidson Students May Get Into Finals With SRO Tickets

If you're a Davidson student who wants to attend the NCAA Soccer Championships when they’re held here in December, you probably feel that you’ve been cheated out of your chance by an athletic department that ignored you. Actually, that’s not true. The real villain is the extraordinary and unforeseen success of Davidson’s efforts to market the tournament.

Athletic director Terry Holland and director of athletic promotions Pat Millen, two of the men responsible for that success, both explain that it has always been their intention to involve the student body in the event, especially as ticket-holders. Recent NCAA Soccer Tournaments at other sites had never come close to selling 5,350 seats (Richardson Field’s capacity), so Davidson officials naturally assumed that thousands of tickets would remain when students returned to school in August. Their plan was simply to approach the students about buying tickets early in the semester.

As it turned out, ticket sales exploded in the final two weeks of August, too late for the Ticket Office to send order forms to students at home. According to Millen, fully 2,500 tickets, almost half of the stadium’s capacity, were sold in the last two weeks. The last seats were sold August 26. “Logistically,” Millen says, “it sounds like we ignored the students; practically, it was the timing.” Realistically, the Ticket Office couldn’t stop taking orders from the general public just to leave a block of tickets for Davidson students. After all, Holland says, “This is not a Davidson event, this is an NCAA event. Our job was to sell the tickets.”

Still, Millen and Holland insist that they will find a way to get Davidson students into the games if at all possible. But they must work around the demands of the NCAA—and soccer fans in other parts of the country who never had a chance to buy tickets. “Our concern is obviously our local constituency, [but] that is not the NCAA’s concern,” Holland says.

In order to satisfy some of those demands, Holland has hammered out to near-completion a television package, whereby SportSouth and Prime Network affiliates would broadcast the games live to almost the entire country. If the TV package does go through, the NCAA should be satisfied that everyone who wants to see the games live will have the chance. In that case, Holland’s hope is that the NCAA will permit Davidson to set aside a block of standing-room-only tickets for Davidson students. That is an ideal solution in that it allows Davidson to increase the magnitude and profit of the event (and satisfy the student body) without adding to its already substantial logistical problems (parking, etc.).

The NCAA, though, is making things difficult. Davidson will hold a YES (Youth Education through Sports) clinic for 500 area kids in conjunction with the tournament. In the past, the NCAA has made tickets available for those kids and their parents. But plenty of seats remained in the past because the event was so far from selling out. This year, the games are sold out, and the addition of 1,500 more people to service could create a logistical nightmare. Holland is pleading with the NCAA not to make tickets available to the kids in the clinic.

Despite the difficulty over the clinic, Holland is optimistic about the chances of students getting into the event on an SRO basis, and Millen promises that “the students will be accommodated.” As a student, your best bet is still to get on the waiting list (892-2375); you can be sure that, in the event that Holland’s SRO plan comes to life, those students who are on the waiting list will be served first.

Home Athletic Events: September 21-28

Wednesday, September 23: Women’s Soccer v. Lenoir-Rhyne, 4:00 p.m.
Friday, September 25: Swimming & Diving Exhibition, 9:15 a.m.
Saturday, September 26: Football v. Emory and Henry, 1:30
Women’s Soccer v. Erskine, 4:00 p.m.

Rhodes Kicks Grid 'Cats Around Like an Old Ragbucket, 31-6

Defense Allows Close to 500 Total Yards

By Kent Brockman

The Davidson football team concluded its two-week swing through Tennessee Saturday much as it began it, with a convincing loss. For the second consecutive week, the Wildcat defense allowed almost 500 yards of total offense (495), as Rhodes claimed a 31-6 victory in Memphis.

The Lynx started things off in the first quarter, scoring first on Andy Likes’ 20-yard field goal. After a pair of second-quarter scoring drives, Rhodes led 17-0 at halftime. Davidson moved to within 17-6 in the third quarter when sophomore quarterback Kevin Holzworth found junior wide receiver Ward Davis for 33 yards and a touchdown. Drew Fassett’s extra point try failed. RhodesTwice drove for touchdowns in the final period to account for the final margin. Rhodes’ domination of the game was near total. The Lynx held the ball for 38:08 and ran 91 plays. Davidson owned the ball for only 21:52 and ran just 58 plays. The Wildcats’ new run-and-shoot offense sputtered for the second successive week. Davidson quarterbacks completed just 13 of 41 passes for 160 yards. Holzworth was 6-19 for 96 yards and led the team in rushing with four carries for 35 yards. The ‘Cats, now 1-2, face Emory and Henry next Saturday at Richardson Field. The Wasps beat Bridgewater 51-6 Saturday.

Field Hockey Tops Catawba For Season's First Win
By Jennifer Roos

Having had their home opener against Duke officially suspended, Davidson faced Radford and Catawba on the road last week. The Wildcats lost their first official game to Radford 1-0 on Saturday, but rebounded on Wednesday by cruising past Catawba 3-0.

Radford has always been a bitter rival for the Wildcats, and this game reinforced the intensity of the rivalry. On a bumpy field, Davidson was able to counter Radford’s big ball game by using its small passes. Radford had the first scoring opportunity of the game, a shot that ricocheted off the goal post. The Wildcats had several offensive crosses in front of the cage, yet their first goal of the season eluded them.

In the second half, both teams were awarded penalty strokes. The first stroke went to the Wildcats. With the Radford crowd chanting and making catcalls, junior Erin Lang stepped forward to take the stroke, yet could not convert. Radford also failed to capitalize on its penalty stroke when junior goalie Emily Coleman made a diving save and knocked the ball away. When regulation time ended with the teams tied 0-0, the game moved into sudden death overtime. Two minutes into the overtime, Simone Plaisance, Jenny Plowright, and Missy Potts each had shots on the goalie while she was on the ground, but could not push the ball in the cage. Exactly halfway through the overtime, Radford scored to break the deadlock. Davidson coach Betsy Pryor said, “It is very hard to lose this way, but I was very pleased with the team’s performance, particularly the play of Robin Pepper and Missy Potts.” Both players were named as players of the game for the Wildcats.

The Wildcats’ first win of the season came against rival Catawba. Missy Potts scored Davidson’s first goal of the season ten minutes into the game, with the assist credited to Monique Dockter, who followed up Potts’ goal with one of her own. Dockter scored on a hard drive to the corner of the cage past the goalie. She was later named player of the game for Davidson. Jennifer Roos scored off a corner to give the Wildcats a 3-0 advantage in the first half. With the lead, the Wildcats were able to rotate the lineup, and everyone on the team enjoyed quality minutes. Sophomore Nancy Hilles played well, as she had two shots on goal, and sophomore goalie Mary Ferguson made several key saves to ensure the team’s first shutout of the year. Davidson faces Appalachian State, Ohio University, Kent State, and Central Michigan this week. The team’s next home game will be against Richmond on Saturday, October 3 at 1:00 p.m.

Women Continued from page 16

With the leaders, while Meadows put in a quick final mile. Junior Lisa Sitek ran tough to place 26th at 21:14 for Davidson. Lisa was followed by Laura Jordan (30th, 21:36) and captain Jean DeMoss (33rd, 21:45). This depth should prove deadly in conference competition. Freshmen Phuong Nguyen (71st) and Alicia Dandar (129th) will look to improve as the season progresses. Coach Beth Manson is hopeful that the women’s hard work and dedication will pay off in the championship races to come. The women travel to New York City next weekend for the Hunter College Invitational at Van Cortlandt Park.

Soccer Polls

Soccer America Top 20
1. Virginia
2. UCLA
3. Duke
4. Southern Methodist
5. South Carolina
6. Clemson
7. St. Louis
8. Indiana
9. James Madison
10. Yale
11. Santa Clara
12. George Mason
13. San Francisco
14. Portland
15. N.C. State
16. Wake Forest
17. Creighton
18. Rutgers
19. UNLV
20. Davidson

I.S.A.A. Top 25
1. Virginia
2. UCLA
3. Duke
5. South Carolina
6. Indiana
7. San Francisco
8. James Madison
9. Boston U.
10. Rutgers
11. Clemson
12. St. Louis
13. Creighton
14. UNLV
15. Army
16. Hartford
17. George Mason
18. Bowling Green
19. N.C. State
20. Stanford (tie)
22. Yale
23. Evansville
24. St. John’s
25. Illinois State

Also Receiving Votes: Davidson, Hartwick, SIU Edwardsville