10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992

Davidson Arts

Davidson Alumnus Exhibits Photography at Union Gallery

By Chris Hoveland

The Union’s Gallery Committee is hosting several works of Davidson Alumnus Elijah Gowin ('90) in the first-floor gallery of the Union. The exhibit will run for two weeks beginning Monday, February 24, and features a few photographs from Davidson as well as several from Gowin’s recent expedition to India.

Gowin’s works are monochrome prints, although there are some that are tinted. Several themes pervade the prints: doors and entranceways, figures with somewhat haunting expressions, and often the photographs contain an underlying and somewhat disturbing element. For instance, one called Passageway to Atrium, Scarperia, Italy, 1990, shows a Roman tablet inscribed with Latin on a wall in the background, while in the front right stands a dismembered mannequin - out of place and out of shape. Another called Construction, India, 1991, shows a doorway covered by strangely shaped cloths. It looks like a passageway, but the shabby cloth communicates a subtle warning, and at the same time inspires a curious attractiveness.

Gowin, originally from Newtown, Pennsylvania, was an art history major while at Davidson, but took no photographic instruction here other than an independent study with Dr. Frank Bliss. Photography was not foreign to Gowin since his father is also a photographer. (His father recently worked on a series of abstract landscapes taken from an aerial perspective.) Gowin did not take up photography seriously until after graduation.

Album Review: "The Mission's Clear..." for Phish's New A Picture Of Nectar

By Chip Petree

First of all, for those of you who couldn’t distinguish an opinion from last week's review, the point was that Col. Bruce and the boys are so good that it’s sick and frightening. But recently, a new release from Phish has burst upon the scene, and I might have to be shipped to Siberia because of my fear (that means it’s good).

Seriously, the Burlington, Vermont-based band’s new album, A Picture of Nectar, was released about two weeks ago, and it’s truly a great album. I try to save that part for the end, but I think I’ll go ahead and say it. This album follows in the tradition of Phish’s superb albums, producing a sound that is true to their live performances and featuring the masterful talents of guitar player Trey Anastasio, keyboardist Page McConnell, bassist Mike Gordon, and drummer/trombone player Jon Fishman (also known as Showboat Gertrude).

As we heard in Love Auditorium last November, Phish’s unique blend (and twist of) rock, jazz, funk, blues, and bluegrass is definitely an experience. The album opens with “Llama,” a song that features the frenetic pace of Fishman and Gordon’s rhythm section. Then, following a mellow composition of Anastasio, “Cavern” bursts in with a funky groove and the refrain that includes the title of the album:

“Give the director a serpent_ “Magilla.” “The Landlady,” which opened the Davidson show, is a calypso jam that features the screaming guitar work of Anastasio. The last part of the album features the intense jam of “Tweezer” and straightforward rockin’ of “Chalk Dust Torture.” Other, more humorous songs such as “The Mango Song” and “Catapult” fill out the album which closes with the joyous “Tweezer (Reprise).” This album is “nothin’ but a jam....again.” As the liner notes indicate, the name of the album refers to and is dedicated to Nectar Rorris. Rorris is the proprietor of “Nectar’s,” the establishment in Burlington that gave the band its first bar-gig despite their “lack of experience.”

See “Phish” on page 11

Dean with the single “logic of pictorial expression” are similar -- in fact, interrelated -- and wishes that that connection could be developed more often in the realm of academics, particularly here. When asked how he came about deciding to pursue photography as a career, Gowin remarked, “You can’t decide it really, it decides it for you. ... You may not be following something you understand, but you follow it anyway.” A piece of advice for dreamers: “Now is the time you can afford to be led by something. Take advantage of it, and have faith.”

Gowin’s plans for the near future include a trip to eastern Europe, during which he will finish his portfolio. After a year he will attend graduate school. He would also like to teach photography. He would instruct his students about “thinking visually,” and putting words to the abstract ideas behind their images. Until he was a junior, and now, four years later, he returns to show his work. When asked how Davidson academics prepared him for his career, Gowin replied, “Well, you wouldn’t come to Davidson thinking this would be a good place to study photography,” but added, “I wouldn’t be able to think about photography the way I do if I hadn’t had the academic background I received here.” Gowin finds that the logic of language and the logic of pictorial expression are similar -- in fact, interrelated -- and wishes that that connection could be developed more often in the realm of academics, particularly here.

Whistlin’ Dixie

Matt Bumstead Carpenter Hits Paydirt at Grammys

At last Tuesday’s Grammy Awards, The Judds won two awards, Best Vocal Group and Country Song of the Year; Vince Gill, Mark O'Connor, and Ricky Skaggs won again for Best Vocal Collaboration. Among these awards were the two that get perhaps the most attention - Best Male and Female Vocal Performance.

Most of you are saying “Of course Garth Brooks won.” Well, as a matter of fact... he did. The award was not a giveaway, however, by any means. Last year’s winner, Vince Gill, was a heavy contender for the award with his album Pocket Full of Gold. Also vying for the prize were Alan Jackson (Don’t Rock the Jukebox), Travis Tritt with the single “Here’s a Quarter (Call Someone Who Cares),” and George Strait. Reba McEntire gave a rousing rendition of her biggest hit “Down the Aisle.” Moments after her performance, the presenter announced the nominees for Best Female Vocal Performance.