**The Davidsonian**

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992 NUMBER 6

Photospy Philip Bermingham

Reporter Discusses Thomas Supreme Court Hearings

By Russ Tarver

Timothy Phelps, one of two reporters who exposed Anita Hill’s allegations of sexual harassment against Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas,
spoke in the 900 Room on Thursday, September 24. Phelps, author of the recently published *Capitol Games: Clarence Thomas, Anita
Hill, and the Story of a Supreme Court Nomination*, is the Supreme Court reporter for *New York Newsday Magazine*. Soon
after the June 17, 1991 resignation of Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, Phelps began researching Clarence Thomas’ background. In the
process, Phelps discovered Hill’s accusations against Thomas.

When he first interviewed those who knew Thomas, he received conflicting observations of Thomas’ character. “I began to think after
only a few days that I was reporting on two different people,” said Phelps. Some of his sources were very
positive about Thomas, while others were extremely negative. “I heard stories about people who were fired by having messages pinned
to their chairs...I started scratching my head and wondering what was going on,” said Phelps.

After detailing his extensive research, Phelps attempted to explain the reasoning behind the Judiciary Committee’s decision to continue Thomas’ confirmation
proceedings. “We [Phelps and co-author Helen Winternitz] found, in researching the book, that so many Senators had been touched by
scandal of some kind or another that the Senate, as an institution, was incapable of challenging the moral credentials of
a Supreme Court nominee.” After further commentary, Phelps opened the floor for questions. The 1992-93 McGee Visiting Professor of Writing,
Elizabeth Benedict, extended the invitation.

See "Phelps" on page 3

Longtime Librarian Meeks Retires After 13 Years of Service

By Sarah Sadowski

The days of “Merde!” as the opening salutation at the E.H. Little Library’s circulation desk are over. On Wednesday, September
30, Pat Meeks, the incomparable character and chieftain of circulation, retired after 13 years of service to the Davidson College
community.

Meeks has been a long-time member of the Davidson community. Her husband, Walter Meeks, was a professor in the French
department, and the two directed two of Davidson’s JY-Montpellier, France programs, the first of which was only the second year
of the program’s existence. Meeks began her career as circulation supervisor in 1979. Since that year, she has coordinated all
aspects of circulation, including the supervision of 35-40 work-study students each year. The flow of students, professors, and community members
to and from the central circulation area made her one of the most visible employees of the library. Her sharp
wit, smooth tongue,

See "Meeks" on page 3

Filmmaker Spike Lee to Visit Davidson

"Rap Session" Set For October 21

By Katrice Shuler

On Wednesday, October 21, Davidson will welcome a “righteous black man” (Buggin’ Out, *Do the Right Thing*). In a bold
reaction against the obstacles facing minorities in the college community, the Union Speakers Committee, the Black Student Coalition, the Public
Lectures Committee, the Dean of Students Office, and the Love of Learning Program will sponsor "A Rap Session with Spike
Lee."

Lee, a graduate of Morehouse College in Atlanta and of New York University’s film school, will answer questions ranging from
film to race relations. He presently teaches a course on film at Harvard, runs Forty Acres and a Mule Film
Works, owns a recording company, writes books on filmmaking, and preaches a synthesis of Malcolm X’s and Martin Luther King,
Jr.’s teachings. At his most recent speaking engagement at UNC-Chapel Hill on Friday, September 18, Lee spoke out in favor
of a Black Cultural Center. Many in attendance supported his views, but many opposed his angry statements about racial relations.
Lee merits both praise and criticism from his movies.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

as he reminds the audience that African-Americans have been taught to hate themselves, their race, and their heritage. He controls
every aspect of production to prevent corruption of his vision by juggling the roles of writer, producer, and director of
his movies (excepting the screenplay of the upcoming release of Malcolm X, which was written by James Baldwin and Arnold
Pearl). In his first feature film, She's Gotta Have It (1986), he explores the life of a sexually over-active African-American
woman and draws accusations of sexist overtones. His next movie, 1988's School Daze, caused such controversy during the filming that
Morehouse, Lee’s own alma mater, refused to allow him to finish filming on campus because Lee chose to depict prejudices
among African-Americans based on skin tone. In 1989 Lee released his most controversial film, Do the Right Thing. Critics claimed
that the climactic riot scene advocated violence, Lee's characters acted as stereotypes, and the deletion of drugs from the movie
created an unrealistic atmosphere. Some accused the film of affecting the NY mayoral election between David Dinkins and incumbent Ed
Koch. 1990’s Mo’ Better Blues raised feminists’ eyebrows with his lack of depth in female roles. Some critics felt that
the movie was a muddled mess in light of his previous work. Jungle Fever (1991) makes a statement against interracial
relationships by showing that the issue Lee’s latest project, Malcolm X, will be released November 20. The film is already
being labelled controversial. After wresting the legacy of Malcolm X from direc- See "Spike" on page 3

College Tuition Increases 10% By Sally Stone

How is your $7,410 tuition contribution to Davidson spent? Efficiently and prudently, according to the Vice-President for Business and Finance
Bob Sutton. Tuition totals $21.5 million of Davidson’s $43.5 million operating budget for 1992-93, constituting 64% of the school’s expenditures.
The $12 million difference comes from Davidson’s endowment, monetary contributions, and grants. This year’s budget reads:

$14 million - Academic Affairs: primarily faculty salaries
$5.6 million - Financial Aid: including need-based, loans, merit, athletic, and work-study funds
$3.3 million - Physical Plant: including utilities, grounds, and renovations
$2.8 million - Institutional Advancement: “money spent to raise money,” said Sutton; Development, Alumni Affairs, and College Relations
$2.6 million - Athletics: including intercollegiate, club, and intramural athletics and upkeep of Baker Sports Complex
$2.3 million - Business and Finance: college-wide expenses, including legal fees, insurance, public safety, and the comptroller’s office
$1.5 million - Student Affairs: Dean of Students office and the Union
$900,000 - Admissions and Financial Aid
$500,000 - President’s Office, Institutional Research, and Trustee funds

Tuition cost is decided during a three-month (November-January) budget process. Instead of receiving departmental “wish lists” in which to allocate
funds, the budget committee prioritizes based on recommendations made by the Admissions office. Admissions initially makes proposals according to comparisons
of Davidson to various colleges and universities. For example, faculty compensation has been one of two priorities for the past
several years. The school has made significant strides to become competitive in this area, deemed “absolutely essential to maintaining a
quality faculty,” by Sutton. Currently, its budgetary allotment towers over any other individual budget division. Financial aid closely follows Academic
Affairs in order of priority by Davidson. According to the Financial Aid office, 60% of the student body receive some
form of assistance, from merit scholarships to work-study compensation and thirty percent of it is solely need-based. Financial aid budget-
See "Tuition" on page 3

INSIDE
NEWS: Russian Foreign Ministry Official to Speak on Tuesday. See page 4.
OPINIONS: Sean Lind Thinks He's Back In High School. Find Out Why On page 6.
SPORTS: Field Hockey Rolls On, Net Biggest Victory Ever. See page 12.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036
