12 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992

No Bush
Continued from page 11

Union, Bush still insisted on snubbing Yeltsin, the democratically elected president of Russia, and supporting Gorbachev, who was placed in
power by the communists. The message to would-be democratic reformers around the world is clear: Don’t count on Uncle Sam
for any help until after you’ve established yourself politically, militarily, and economically. Bush didn’t even recognize the independence of the
Baltics until after almost every country in Europe had already done so. Do we really want our country to come
in last place in defense of freedom? Is Bush too proud to help a struggling neighbor? Despite the non-existent Soviet
threat, Bush continues to test nuclear weapons on our own soil. The environmental consequences of this are unknown. Yeltsin, who
has unilaterally suspended nuclear testing in what was the Soviet Union, has stated that if the U.S. continues testing nuclear
weapons, he will be forced to begin nuclear testing again in Russia. Do you suppose George Bush misses the cold
war?

#6) Bush is C.I.A. Notice I don’t say Bush is Ex-C.I.A. That’s because there is no such thing. Once you
are a member of this octopus of hypocrisy and deceit you are a member for life. This organization has been
implicated in the import of drugs into our country, funding our own enemies, arranging for the prolonged captivity of American
hostages, assassination of democratically elected foreign leaders, and covering up evidence of genocide all over the world. As head of
this organization, Bush took orders from no one, and answered to no one for the crimes he committed. In this
post, he personally recruited Manuel Noriega (definitely), and Saddam Hussein (probably). Bush led a program of erasing evidence of all
past and present C.I.A. crimes, particularly in Angola, where we were enmeshed in a secret war for more than a
decade. Those under him say he let the guilty go free and the innocent suffer in a policy he called
“Restoring the C.I.A.’s morale.” Bush learned a valuable lesson from those C.I.A. days. It doesn’t matter what you do, only
what you are caught doing. No one who has been a member of this organization should be elected to public
office, as this attitude is not conducive to healthy government.

#5) Bush was Involved in Iran-Contra. I know, I know. I might as well bring up Bush’s role in the
battle of Hastings, considering how the public has chosen to forget about this episode, but

Kirby
Continued from page 11

as look at you. You don’t understand the cruel reality of living until you have to worry about doing something
that will make you enough money to buy Wonder Bread and bologna at the store and pay your light bill
before they cut you off. Here at Davidson we complain because they put the wrong mustard on our turkey sandwich
in the Union or because the keg went dry before we had a chance to “nurse” our eighth beer. Thus,
my plea to the Davidson Community for this year is to take advantage of the opportunities that we all have
here. We can still disagree with one another and make efforts to improve our life here, but let’s not waste
our time whining while the lights are on and we can choose not to eat our sandwich on that nasty
Wonder Bread.

Birks
Continued from page 6

YOUR MONEY. (In fact, they need your money so badly that they’ve decided to ask your parents for a contribution
to the alumni fund even though your parents might not even be alumni and you won’t be one for three
more years. Our parents were particularly pleased to discover this additional component to the Davidson experience. Now everyone can feel
like they’re a part of the Davidson family.) Our point is just this. Whether you know it or not, you’re
now a paying customer in that great endeavor, Davidson, Inc. You (not the faculty or the addled alumni or the
board of trustees or the ground maintenance people or anybody else) are the reason that this institution exists. It is
your responsibility as a Davidsonian to leave it a stronger, more socially and intellectually credible place than when you found
it four years before (besides, if you screw up after we’re gone, we’ll look bad). To quote the great non-Presbyterian
Martin Luther, “Here I stand; I can do no other so help me God.” If it means challenging something as
trivial as dining services’ “Bonus Bucks” scam (which limits meals solely to the Commons), by all means challenge it. Were
we to challenge such an inane system, we’d point out that “Bonus Bucks” are hardly the “good deal” suggested in
the letter you may have received from the college this summer. You’ve now got eighty to a hundred “Bucks” to
spend at the Union any time you want, but you cannot eat a meal-carded lunch there. This is what’s known
in lay-speak as a “Rip-Off.” Freshpersons, until this semester the lunch between classes at the Union was a bright spot
in many a student’s day. Now that sun has set. With honeyed words and a heart of flint, Carlton Pritchard
(Commons Czar) has denied this great joy to the Davidson student, hard at toil in the fields of the Lord.
Now granted, the prose is worthless, but our meaning should be clear. “Bonus Bucks” be damned; we want the Union
back on meal plan! Oh, and any other social or intellectual impediments which you noble freshpersons find blocking your path,
by all means challenge them. But let’s get this Union thing straightened out first.

again, I must explain why this is important. A: You are not supposed to swap arms for hostages. This is
considered a dumb move by most strategists. B: You are not supposed to give weapons to people who charge through
the streets shouting “Death to American Satan Pigs,” it’s a faux-pas. C: The contras were a band of former supporters
of the ruthless dictator Somoza, who got what they wanted by torturing, murdering, dealing drugs, and somehow conning Ronald Reagan
into telling Americans that they were “The moral equivalent of our founding fathers.” D: Many within the Reagan administration, including
Oliver North, and even some within the Bush administration, have said that Bush knew all about the covert deal, which
makes sense, if you refer back to reason #6. And finally, George Bush has never told the American people what
his role in the scandal was. Remember when he was running for office and he practically got into a knife
fight with Dan Rather over this issue? I know, this was a long time ago, but think hard, can you
remember? Good, I knew you could. All Dan Rather did was ask Bush what his role in the scandal had
been, but from Bush’s reaction one might have thought Rather accused him of molesting dead goats. Instead of demanding an
answer, the American people cheered and said “See! Bush isn’t a wimp after all, just look at him cuss out
Dan Rather.” The public danced like marionettes on the end of Bush’s strings. Perhaps Bush used the Jedi mind trick.
“This is not the conspirator you are looking for. You can go about your business. Move along...”

#4) Bush Caused War with Iraq. Though many of these reasons will no doubt be controversial, I doubt if any
will generate as much anger as this, butLet's look at the record. On October 29, 1989, Bush signed a document
affirming U.S. commitment to Iraq, despite its sickening record on human rights. Later that year, the Bush administration defended Iraq’s
build-up of chemical weapons, calling them a deterrent to nuclear attack by Iraq’s nuclear-capable enemies (i.e., Israel). We sold arms
to Iraq during its war with Iran. We did nothing when an Iraqi jet fired a missile at one of
our ships, killing many U.S. servicemen. In the week before the invasion of Kuwait, April Glaspie, an employee of the
U.S. State Department, personally told Saddam Hussein that America would not interfere in Iraq’s “border dispute” with Kuwait. Hussein assumed
this was a green light from Bush, and the rest is tragic history. I am not accusing Bush of starting
the war deliberately, only of misreading Saddam Hussein. Even more disturbing, however, are the recent leaks from the White House
that Bush would consider bombing Iraq before the election in order to revive his sagging popularity. Newsweek quoted an official
in the White House as saying that the U.S. was planning on “staging an incident” in Iraq to give the
U.S. a pretext for such military action. The Administration’s response was chilling. They scolded the press for “tipping off” Hussein
that the attack would be coming. Then Bush denied the charge. Make up your minds, guys.

#3) Bush Supports Totalitarian Chinese Government. In 1950, the Chinese communists invaded Tibet and began a brutal policy of religious
and political persecution which has since varied in intensity from cultural genocide to actual genocide. It is estimated that millions
of Tibetans have been killed or sterilized during the Chinese occupation. When George Bush was America’s “Special Envoy” to China,
he gave this and other human rights abuses a little wink and went on forging an alliance with this cruel
government. Bush acknowledged China’s sovereignty over Tibet and called Tibet’s legitimate ruler, the Dalai Lama (who was later awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize), a “slave trader.” If, like most Americans, you have heard nothing of these events, then you must
be scratching your head and wondering how such a thing could happen, but it gets even worse. In 1989, communism
fell in Europe, for which Bush is only too happy to take credit, but that same year Bush stood idly
by while those seeking democratic reform in China were slaughtered. In public, Bush condemned the action, but it is now
known that he almost immediately sent messengers to assure Deng Xiaoping that he would not revoke China’s most favored nation
status, and to this day he has not. This means that vast quantities of Chinese goods can be imported to
America, despite the fact that we know most of their export goods are produced by the millions of political prisoners
the Chinese continue to hold in forced labor camps, where they work and live under virtual slavery. The Dalai Lama
has, on several occasions, personally appealed to George Bush to pressure the Chinese into allowing him into Tibet. Bush has
decided, however, that it is more politically advantageous to give China most favored nation status in return for their support
of our war with Iraq. (China demanded the incentive, since as a member of the U.N. Security Council, they could
have vetoed the resolution under which we sent troops.) The most puzzling thing about this is that Bush is truly
anti-communist, and his support of Chinese communism just doesn’t make sense. Why then does he do it? Is he afraid
a free China would be too difficult for us to compete with economically? Or is it something even more sinister?
Bush did spend a lot of time in China. Has anybody seen “The Manchurian Candidate”?

#2) Bush Will Cripple America with Debt. Bush wants you to believe the debt is all the fault of Congress.
I believe him. —NOT!!! Bush’s hypocrisy on this one issue perhaps exceeds all others. Bush rails against Congress for not
passing his balanced budget amendment, yet according to law, the president must submit a budget to Congress each year. Bush
has yet to submit a balanced budget to Congress. The deficit produced by Bush’s proposed budget for the current year
will be around 350 billion dollars, bringing Bush’s total fiscal debt for his term in office to over one trillion
dollars, which is just shy of the total debt accumulated by America between the years of 1776 and 1980, the
year Reagan took office and supply-side economics was adopted. Hello out there, economists. Supply-side economics has not only failed to
balance the budget, it has made the problem infinitely worse, and Bush knows it. When Bush ran for office in
1980, he called supply-side “voodoo economics,” and he was right. Yet in a blatant attempt to buy the election, Bush
has offered to cut taxes again if re-elected. First of all, are we going to read his lips again, or
get real? Second, the economists and politicians concur, with the exception of Newt Gingrich, that if taxes are cut again,
the debt will skyrocket, which will cause the bond market to fail, which will cause the stock market to fail,
et cetera, et cetera. Now really, George, is that any way to stimulate the economy?

#1) (you knew it was coming), Bush Will Destroy the Earth. O.K., maybe he won’t actually finish it off in
the next four years, it has, after all, been around a long time, and it’s known worse. Right? Wrong. Scientists
now tell us that we are currently living through the fastest mass extinction of species that the world has ever
known; we are losing biodiversity far faster than it died at the end of the Mesozoic era. What am I
talking about? I’m talking about the record of the man who claimed he would be the “Environmental President.” Bush had
the clean air bill gutted. He had the wetlands bill cut down to the point that only rivers and oceans
counted as “wetlands.” He refused to do anything about the greenhouse effect. He refused to stop exporting CFCs to third
world countries. He has threatened to rewrite the endangered species act to ensure that loggers in the Pacific Northwest won’t
lose their jobs now, but in three years, when there are no more old-growth forests anywhere in the country. George
Bush lied. He had no intention of helping the environment because he’s an old man who’ll be dead soon, anyway.
His performance in Rio brought shame upon our nation. By refusing to sign the biodiversity treaty, we brought the world
one step closer to ecological catastrophe.

In order to be unbiased, I have included the top ten reasons to vote for George Bush as well.

10) He seems like such a nice guy...
9) Oh, and I suppose Clinton would do better...
8) Don’t you think the president knows more about it than we do?
7) We sure taught that Hussein guy a lesson!
6) (I can’t write this reason, I’m too busy saluting the flag.)
5) He has such a nice family.
4) I’m a Republican. I’ve always been a Republican. My whole family is... (etc.)
3) Tax and Spend and Tax and Spend and Tax and Spend and Tax and Spend and...
2) Liberals and Black Folks and Gays,—Oh My!
1) Isn’t all the rest of the people in my fraternity voting for Bush?
