THE DAVIDSONIAN

APRIL 6, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
KEVIN MILLER - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CHRIS HOOD - Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

Letters

Alumnus Cites History of Patterson Court Indiscretions

In spite of the frosty Spring Frolics weather, the editors couldn't help feeling cheery about the coming season. Azaleas bloom
this week at The Masters, baseball teams await tomorrow's "Opening Day," and basketball crowns its champion tonight. If these sports
events fail to convince you of the majesty of Spring, keep in mind that exams will be over exactly one
month from today.

O sweet spontaneous earth how often have the doting fingers of prurient philosophers pinched and poked thee, has the naughty
thumb of science prodded thy beauty, how often have religions taken thee upon their scraggy knees squeezing and buffeting thee
that thou mightest conceive gods (but true to the incomparable couch of death thy rhythmic lover thou answerest them only
with spring)
-e.e. cummings

Editor's Note: The Davidsonian does its best to accommodate the announcements of college groups and individuals. In order to aid
our publishing of these notices, please have any notice needed for Monday's paper in to the Davidsonian office by 5
P.M. on the previous Thursday afternoon. In addition, we will do our best to print all announcements to your specifications,
but priority will be given to articles and our paid advertisers. Thanks for your understanding.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editor,

I write in response to the articles, editorials, and advertisements concerning the Select Committee report and the resulting sanctions against
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Some historical background is necessary to show the problem which the committee addressed is by no means
a new one. I hope, then, that you will permit an alumnus to reminisce. I don’t know firsthand what’s going
on at Davidson now. I only know what happened when I was a student. Begging your indulgence, here is what
I would have told the Select Committee:

Next to 5 Patterson Court, the SAE house, is 6. I don’t know what 6 Patterson Court is now, but
when I was a student it was the site of ATO, the defunct fraternity metamorphosed into a soon-to-be-defunct coed eating
house. It was my house. Then as now, the gentlemen at number 5 participated in a “friendly rivalry” with their
equally clean-cut and starched counterparts at KA. The people next door to ATO, however, were not rivals, friendly or otherwise.
Rivalry, you see, presumes a perception of equality, and however group consciousness at number 5 perceived their gentle, guitar-strumming, poetry-reading
next-door neighbors, it was not as equals. Rivalry was therefore impossible. Contempt took its place, and was displayed brutally. Here
are some of the incidents I witnessed, and the responses to them which I also witnessed.

Item: Every year at homecoming, the clan of SAEs past and present would gather afterThe game for tribal rituals lasted
well into the small hours of the morning and included approximately one-half gross of bottles of champagne. Over the course
of the afternoon and evening, said bottles would be progressively emptied and then jettisoned onto the rear porch of number
6. Any ATOs gently strumming guitars or reading poetry in the house at the time did so to the accompaniment
of empty champagne bottles crashing and shattering on concrete. By morning, the ATO patio was thickly and evenly carpeted with
shards of green glass.

Why didn’t we ask them to stop? Why didn’t we protest to the Dean? We did, actually; it was part
of another ritual. We would complain to Will, and a few days later we would receive a suitably contrite letter
of apology from the clean-cut, starched, and pleasantly well-mannered incumbent chapter president. "Real sorry," he would tell us privately. "We’ll
do what we can."

Item: Once, a few of us got presumptuous enough to venture a gesture of “friendly rivalry” toward our neighbors. We
engaged the Phi Delts (who raised money doing this sort of thing) to raid the SAE house and assault the
brethren assembled at dinner with whipped cream pies. No physical damage was to be done. It was good, clean fun—an
expression of “friendly rivalry.” But how could we forget—how dare we forget—that an expression of rivalry is an assertion of
equality. The next day, the SAEs raided the ATO house. They overturned tables. They raided the kitchen and broke plates
and glasses. It brought to mind Kristallnacht in Germany in 1938. Our house manager went to the Dean. He wouldn’t
take any action. The SAEs were only getting even, he said. We should have known better, he said.

Item: Patterson Court houses, as you know, are only equipped with one restroom accessible to the public. This creates difficulties
on ceremonial occasions when scores have been consuming powerfully diuretic beverages in order to induce the trance appropriate for such
occasions. The devotees of Minerva at number 6 had, over time, evolved a neat solution to this delicate problem. These
women imported for cultic festivities (who, it was hoped, would participate in still more arcane rituals later in the evening)
were directed in their need to the facilities next door. The brothers, perhaps deeming it unmanly to closet themselves during
these celebrations of virility, relieved themselves in front of, upon, and through the basement windows of the ATO house. The
Dean, to his credit, was somewhat more forthcoming on this point. Any individual that we observed in the act, and
that we were subsequently able to identify, would be fined a sum of $75.00 under the Code of Responsibility. Of
course, no action was to be taken against the SAEs collectively. So we obligingly posted a sentinel armed with a
camera, and sure enough, we caught a surprised SAE on film. His fraternity nickname was “Stork.” We produced photographic evidence
to the inaccuracy of conventional wisdom about tall men, but it became impracticable and unreasonable to garrison an observer at
the house until dawn on all such occasions.

Item: The very same term, the Phi Delt house was taken off the list of designated drinking areas because two
individuals in that organization had jumped up and down on a car belonging to a college secretary. The SAEs did
not have to pay to have our carpet cleaned once; the bill came to about $70.00.

Item: Later in the year, the SAEs staged a three-day bacchanal to observe the centennial of the chapter. The final
tab came to $20,000. At the party for faculty and staff on the first day, the...

See "Elgin" on page 5.
