THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, January 27, 1992

Campus Crime News

9:30 pm Saturday, January 18

At the above time, a Davidson student reported her 1989 white Jeep Cherokee broken into. The right passenger vent window was broken out and the previously locked door was unlocked.

A pair of Ray-Ban sunglasses valued at $80.00 were missing along with a fake radar detector. Her car was parked in the Copeland parking lot.

12:45 am -- 3:00 am Wednesday, January 15

Between the above times, a jacket was removed from the downstairs of PiKA during a party. It was beside a bookbag that was not touched, so the victim thought that someone might have just borrowed the jacket. It was a GAP brand coat, army green with large front pockets. The owner’s name and phone number are written inside the front pocket. It is valued at $80.00.

11:59 am Saturday, January 18 -- 2:00 am Sunday, January 19

Between the above times, someone removed a coat from Kappa Sigma during a party. It was rolled up and placed under the soda table set-up. It is valued at $180.00.

5:00 pm Friday, January 17 -- 8:32 am Monday, January 20

Between the above times, an unknown person(s) broke the glass to the copier machine near the Central Services Department in the South Basement of Chambers. A pounding device was used to break the thick glass. Estimated damage is listed at $200.00.

Facts You May Not Know About the Honor Council

By Robert Rostan, Erin Lee & Catherine Milligan

1. Those chosen for a trial are chosen by gender, experience, and potential involvement with the defendant. The panel selected for a given hearing may include one or two members who have never heard a trial, as well as members who have heard several. No one who is closely tied with the defendant (to the degree that there may be a conflict of interest) may sit on the panel.

2. Out of admiration and respect for our system, many other schools have written requesting advice on how to construct or improve their honor systems.

3. All trials are open until closed by the defendant.

4. Last term there was one closed hearing of the Honor Council. In this hearing, the defendant was found guilty.

5. The Chairperson’s key role is to preside over the hearing and to play devil’s advocate, not to direct the decision or persuade the Council. The Chair is one voting member of a panel of six.

6. You choose the members of your class that are on the Honor Council.

7. There will be an open mock trial this term sponsored by the Honor Council.

By Leigh

Last week’s Student Government meeting opened with an announcement about election sign-ups for SGA President and Vice President.

The Senate approved a survey to be sent to faculty to better understand their perspective. Please attend the forum to express your concerns and opinions.

The Senate again discussed the possibility of changes in the present Honor Council. Reports from the Student Conduct Council meeting show that the current Honor Council members are not...

Master's Thesis Turns Into Blockbuster

By Amy Reynolds (CPS)

When Amanda Silver started thinking about ideas for her master’s thesis, she had no idea it would turn into a movie, let alone a successful one.

Silver, who wrote the screenplay to Hollywood Pictures’ “The Hand That Rocks The Cradle,” graduated with her master’s in screenwriting from the University of Southern California film school in 1989.

The school requires screenwriting students to write a script as their thesis.

“I wanted to write a thriller,” Silver says. Playing with the theme of Shakespeare’s Othello, a play Silver says she “thought would make a great thriller,” she decided to focus her thesis “on how one’s own doubt could be (his or her) worst enemy.”

“My husband suggested using two women... and the nanny came about as a device to get proximity,” Silver says, “to get someone close enough to prey on someone else’s self-doubt.”

“That is the premise of the film, which features Rebecca DeMornay as the nanny, Peyton Flanders. After the death of her husband and miscarriage of her baby, Flanders tries to start a ‘new’ life - a life that already belongs to Claire Bartel, played by Annabella Sciorra, a working woman and devoted mother and wife.

Silver says the project took her two semesters to complete - one to develop the idea and one to write it. The transformation from thesis to movie came about “because I got very lucky,” Silver says.

Her husband, Rick Jaffa, produced the film and helped her with the rewriting process, Silver says. Jaffa, and Silver’s own connections as a past executive assistant at Tri-Star Pictures and at Paramount Pictures helped her land a deal to turn the thesis into a film.

“My (success) story is especially exciting to people struggling in film school,” Silver says, because it shows that people can succeed in “the struggle to become an artist.”

Library

Continued from page 1

should remain in their respective libraries. Another is that volunteers should staff the branches in order to move the regular staff to a regional facility. Others include negotiations with Crosland-Erwin about site details.

Elections

Continued from page 1

also two pairs of candidates running for Defense Advisor. David Lindsay and Arthur Morehead are running against Caleb Loring and Kirby Shealy.

SENIORS

Place your suggestions for a Senior Class Gift in one of the envelopes at each apartment building, or in the boxes in the Union and the Library.

Suggestions are due by 11:00 am Jan. 30.

WE NEED YOUR IDEAS