THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

In Black and White: Is PC All It's Cracked Up To Be?

Some people thought that our article last week presented black students as more racist than white students. That wasn’t our
intention. It was our intention to point out that racism exists “on both sides,” so to speak, and that the
racism that is occasionally directed towards whites is somewhat more frequently directed towards blacks.

This week’s article is again in the form of a theoretical conversation.

Scott: In the past year or so, it has become politically correct to call black people “African-American” (even though “black”
doesn’t seem to offend). If we were to do the same for white people, we would have to call them
“European-American,” and yet nobody insists on this. Why the interest among many blacks for historical racial origin?

Deidra: You are dealing with a minority group that has been oppressed for hundreds of years and a majority group
that has been the oppressor. (Despite the fact that slavery as an institution has not existed for 120 years, there
are still many instances in which blacks are being oppressed.) Blacks have come to demand to be identified as they
choose, not as other people choose. If you want to break it down, it is not important what people want
to call blacks (or any other minority group) but rather what minorities want to be called. There is a certain
sense of pride that is associated with racial identification, and that comes from the racial group in particular, not from
the views of the majority.

Scott: So I guess the reason we don’t call whites “European-Americans” is because they don’t demand it.

Now what if I’m refereeing an intramural soccer game between one team with only white players and one with only
black players. If I make three calls in a row in favor of the “all-white” team, are some of the
black students going to assume that there are racial motives for this? That I might be racist because I’m white?
That may sound silly, but it’s a thought that crosses my mind: so many white people are still prejudiced; I
don’t want to be grouped with them in the minds of black students.

Deidra: Some of them may think you are being biased, but others won’t give it a second thought. Of course,
let’s be realistic. If you were playing on an all-white team against an all-black team, and a black referee made
three calls in favor of the black team, wouldn’t some of your teammates think favoritism, even for a moment? I
don’t think that black students will immediately think a white student is racist just because he’s white. It depends on
the way the person portrays himself with a group of black students. If he doesn’t care about race and acts
like himself, the group will sense that and accept him for who he is. But if he is racist or
has strong prejudices, and tries to hide the fact by acting like the “true sympathetic friend” who understands all the
hardships of being a minority in a majority-ruled society, anyone can see right through him.

Scott: Why is it acceptable for a black person to wear a sweatshirt that says “black power,” but it’s not
acceptable for a white person to wear a shirt that says “white power”? Most people (including whites) assume that the
white person is racist. Why should we not view a shirt that says “black power” in the same light that
we view a shirt that says “white power”?

Deidra: Again we are dealing with an issue of minority pride. Black people and other minorities must exhibit racial pride,
whether it be through shirts, paraphernalia, or minority organizations, in order to keep their position in society. The majority doesn’t
really have to exhibit racial pride, because its position in society is assured. If a minority sits by and doesn’t
put forth the effort to make his presence known, he will be ignored because his views on life are not
the majority’s views.

If you have a friend—white, black, whatever—who is willing, sit down and discuss some of the ideas we throw at
you. We had a mind-blowing conversation the other day (the contents of which are reproduced here and in next week’s
column) and man, did it make us think. It’s amazing what a little awareness can do for the ol’ cranium.

Hooks Continued from page 6

by law, be spent on money and food for animals—even for the pets who managed to stay with the people
who love them. Most of us who have animals—or whose animals have us—depend so much on that unconditional, accepting love
they give us. Think of what they give us: a wag of the tail makes a long day seem bearable;
having a furry face asleep in our laps as we sit on the couch studying or grading papers until all
hours of the morning; a cold nose pushed...against your face at dawn, reminding you that it’s time to get up
and walk those three miles you promised; the warm fur of a cat asleep next to you on a rainy
night. And they ask for so little in return. Now imagine for a moment what you would do if you
were told that you could have food and water for your family, but non-human members would have to go hungry.
Think of the pets you have or have had: think of them, trying desperately to find water to drink. And
nothing can be done for them—nothing, that is, except you. You can help the animals in Florida and Hawaii. All
it takes is a little cash—two fewer beers a week, beans instead of meat, a matinee movie instead of a
night-show. Five dollars from a hundred people could give 1500 animals food, water, and medical attention for two or three
days. Their survival depends on you; where are your priorities? Money can be donated to the following organizations by check,
credit card, or by mail. All you give is tax deductible. But a greater reward exists. If, as Yale philosopher
Vicki Hearne has pointed out, the way back to Eden is for each person to respect and recognize the dignity
of each animal’s soul, then your contribution can bring us all one step closer. After all, wasn’t taking care of
the animals one of Adam’s tasks?

American Kennel Club—call (800) 252-8355. The AKC is staffed by volunteers; leave a message and a number and someone will
call you back.

Humane Society of the U.S. Disaster Relief Fund, 2100 L Street, NW, Washington D.C. 20037. (800) 448-6263. (Or if you
wish, drop a check made out to the Disaster Relief Fund and leave it in an envelope in my box
in Chambers. I’ll make sure it goes to the Humane Society.)

Sincerely,
Susan Luck Hooks

‘Recycle this Davidsonian and be environmentally cool!!’

What have the principles behind elections on the Davidson campus become? This election seems to have a degree of confusion
and inaccuracy behind it. In the October 2-4, 1992 SGA Flyer, for example, the SGA is still asking Independents to
nominate their Homecoming representative when a name has already been volunteered to the ballot. Other flyers that were intended to
inform the student body of the elections were posted October 2—the day of the election. If flyers were intended to
inform us of the election they should have been posted before the election seeing as the PCC knew this election
date weeks ago. Wright stated that, as President of the PCC, the nomination of the Independent representative was out of
his hands after he had informed the Independent Senators of their job in finding a representative. As a leader on
this campus shouldn’t he be more concerned about the election’s “accuracy”? In the same Davidsonian article from September 21, Foxx
expressed that re-elections resulted in more work for SGA members and smaller voter turnout. Even so, I feel that a
re-election is in order—not necessarily because who is the Homecoming Queen is such an issue, but because of the principles
behind a fair and just election. As it is now this election is anything but that.

Sincerely,
Allison Ariail ’93

Norwood Continued from page 6

Jones, who had never met Landry, was one of the men who delivered the news. For 29 years, Tom Landry
was the Cowboys. As Johnson reported, Landry led the team to “a record between 1966 and 1983 of 209-81-2, which
included a streak of 18 consecutive winning seasons, 13 division championships, five Super Bowl appearances and two Super Bowl wins.”
But Landry was much more than just a winner; he was a man with class. One day after his tactless
dismissal, a reporter asked Landry how he felt about being fired. Landry responded in his usual classy manner by saying,
“I think I’m too far along to think about coaching another team, but I was looking forward to this year.
I thought it was going to be a tremendous challenge. But that’s over with. It’s a chapter closed. This is
the worst scenario, I guess, but I’m not bitter.” Well, I’m bitter, and I think I always will be. You
just don’t treat people like that. I know Jerry Jones has turned the Cowboys into a winning team, and I
know he doesn’t care that I hate the Cowboys. But I will go on hating the Cowboys, and I will
never forget the lesson Jerry Jones taught me about dealing with other people. So, this week the Philadelphia Eagles are
my favorite team, and next week my favorite team will be whoever is playing the Cowboys.

Lind Continued from page 7

moving back in with my parents next year if things don’t shape up. Well, there goes the lunch bell... Got
to go eat. PB&J without the crusts. Fritos. I’ll see you in study hall. Or I’ll call after my mom
picks me up from school and maybe we can play.

See This Space? Why Don't You Fill It! Call Chris -6200

Quote of the Week: "Aren’t there 8 disciples missing?"
