THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

15

Liz Davidson & Dair Brown

Go Out
On a
Ledge!

For the next couple of weeks, we’re going to profile some sports at Davidson you might not have considered. Generally, they’re going to be things you can do alone or with a group of other interested people without the hassles of scheduled practices. They’re going to be the kind of things that you can do on an afternoon or evening when aerobics, weightlifting, or running seem like a chore instead of a break. Give them a shot.

Rock climbing might not seem like the sort of thing you could do readily at Davidson, but it’s actually very accessible. The Physical Plant has converted a racquetball court to an assimilated rock face for practice climbs in the basement of Johnson Gym. There are currently three ropes set up on the two adjacent walls, with varying degrees of difficulty. One involves just a flat wall, one includes an overhang, and the third deals with the different situations that arise when there’s a bit of an angle.

PHOTO FEATURE!

The following photos were taken by Meg Jones during her visit to Israel & Jordan. Please see the accompanying article on page 13.

This is definitely not an aerobic workout. Your heart rate might shoot up some, but your lungs aren’t going to be challenged. It does, however, cover all of your muscle groups. In fact, you’re likely to come across muscles you had forgotten that you possessed.

One of the best parts about this sport is that it sounds so impressive and dangerous, but in reality involves very little risk. You’re much less likely to suffer an injury climbing than if you were to join a pickup game of basketball or racquetball—unless Dair is working the ropes and then your chances of injury rise slightly.

Davidson Outdoors has all of the necessary equipment already, so all you really need to worry about is clothes that allow flexibility and some tennis shoes. You’re going to want to leave your cross-trainers behind, though. It’s going to be tough to find those toe holds with two and a half inches of sole to bother with; so try to stick with thin-soled shoes. If you find yourself climbing all the time and want to invest in climbing shoes, they’ll run you somewhere in the neighborhood of one hundred dollars.

The wall is open from 3-5 and 7-9 Mondays through Thursdays. Generally, you can find Steve Tregay there in the evenings and he’s a great source for more information on shoes and a good deal more on this topic. He’s the guy down there maneuvering the practice holds around to create impossible climbs. Ask him about his butt-starts.

His number is -6540.

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.

CHARLOTTE, NC (704) 541-6300
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.
LSAT * GMAT * GRE * MCAT

HANGOVER HELPER

A Late Nite on Patterson Court? Come To Steak-n-Hoagie for REST & RELAXATION

Buy Any Full Size Hoagie and a Bag of Chips, Get a BIG 32 oz Beverage of Your Choice for just 25 cents.

Just Mention the "Hangover Helper" Deal.