THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992 9

Beyond Birkenstock: J. Kyle Kinner & Seth J. McLaughlin

A Conversation Between the Birks and the Average Voter

So, did you hear that some kind of election or something is comin’ up here, pretty soon?

Do you mean the primaries in New Hampshire, perhaps?

Yeah... that thing.

Yes, we were aware of the upcoming pre-election contest.

Well... what do you think?

About what, your cranial size? Probably pretty small.

Well, at least I know enough to come in out of the rain.

Careful, you’re dripping on the floor.

Heh, wait a minute. No, I was talking about Bill Clinton and that hot Gennifer babe. I hear he dodged
the draft too.

You realize you’re getting your information from a publication whose headline last week dealt with Roseanne Barr-Arnold’s new diet, don’t
you?

Frankly, learning the news from the check-out line at the supermarket is almost as reliable. Trust us, we’re columnists.

Communists? I thought you Rooskies had voted yourselves out of existence, anyway.

Turn up that Miracle-Ear—we said COLUMNISTS, not communists. Besides, although the Soviet Union might indeed be experiencing some temporary non-existence,
they’re still the evil empire. What do you think, seventy years of totalitarianism would just disappear like some revolutionary political
upheaval or something? It’s critical that we continue to increase our military spending to counter the somewhat diminished threat from
the fifty or so unstable, undemocratic, and unbelievably smelly constituent republics.

You sound like Pat Buchanan.

Is there something wrong with that, mister? What are you, Jewish?

Now wait a minute. If you’re trying to insinuate through that last statement that Patrick Buchanan is somehow anti-semitic, it’s
really unfounded.

Hmm... you may be right. You are entirely too erudite to be an average voter.

OK, you’ve guessed it. I'm a NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTER; the only form of the voting species who once in four
years has every candidate from George Bush to Lyndon LaRouche trooping through my living room. As a result, I’m statistically
more likely to know something about politics than the run-of-the-mill moron who usually answers those polls. I’m also more likely
to

Tibet Continued from page 7

which his father had died was in fact the Chinese government. Upon returning to Tibet, the Chinese official in Sonam’s
small home town noticed the absence of the child. Since it was obvious that the parents had left their child
in India, his father was publicly executed in the village. As much as I wanted to learn more about the
topic from one who experienced it first hand, I felt obligated to change the subject.

Briefly, the Chinese began invading Tibet in the late 1940’s when the Communists took control in China. Tibet had been
an independent country for well over a thousand years, but China decided that Tibet was a part of the “motherland,”
despite national treaties signed by both countries which proved otherwise. Needless to say, Tibet’s army of six thousand men could
not defend the country for long against the massive forces of the Chinese. In 1959, the government of Tibet was
forced to flee into exile in India or to risk total loss of their unique, ancient culture—on the “roof of
the world.” Since then the Chinese have killed, according to most estimates, about one million Tibetans. In addition, many thousands
of Tibetans have fled to India, Nepal, and Bhutan to avoid persecution by the Chinese government which is actively pursuing
a repopulation policy as well as running concentration camps and other places of torture. The magnitude of these numbers becomes
apparent when one realizes Tibet was only about six million people before the Chinese invaded.

However, the Tibetans and their supporters are hopeful. Last year the Congress of the United States passed a resolution to
formally recognize Tibet as an occupied nation. Also, with the downfall of a majority of Communist governments in the world,
many are hopeful that China’s government soon will follow suit, perhaps leaving Tibet free again. No one really knows what
will happen, but with this past year having been declared the International Year Of Tibet, worldwide awareness of the problems
in Tibet began and continues to grow.

I could write a lot more, but this is the basic story as I see it. You and I can
read forever about refugees and their tough situations, but you can never really understand until you sit with someone as
he or she tells you face to face what happens. I know there are similar problems all over the world,
and while I would love everyone to do something to help the Tibetan cause, I just hope that people will
find some way to help someone who is being mistreated. You can donate money and write your Senators, but just
being aware of the problems many people experience in this world is a good start.

Finally, I know I did not present many details in this article. I am not an expert on Tibet and
the political problems there, but if you have any questions about it, I will be glad to try to find
an answer or a source for the answer.

Dack Stackhousebe able to sustain these tête-à-têtes with you guys in the press. Thanks for that flattery about being in
“the press,” by the way. You still seemed kinda stupid up at the beginning of this dialogue, though. Hey, what
do you expect? I’m still an American voter, you know. Sorry, we forgot. So who’s the stupid one? Shut up.
Is there a point to this diatribe, or are you guys just here to expose the inane?

Actually, we were kind of hoping you'd tell us who you’re going to vote for.

Birks Continued from page 9

...really makes much of an impact, so you say, “Yeah Rhoda (she hates it when you don’t call her Grandma,
but who cares), I’ll take a leg,” and she glares at you, but hands you the leg to shut you
up, and you take it, and it sits in front of you, mocking your convictions as talk of foot problems
and the price of Matzo wafts above you, ignored, and you think of the Dalai Lama and the prayer he
offered when he accepted the Nobel Prize, “For as long as space endures,/And for as long as living beings remain/Until
then may I, too, abide/To dispel the misery of the world,” but you don’t know why you thought of that,
and the quicker you get this over, the quicker you can get back to MTV, so you reach forward, and
pick up the leg, and brushing aside all objections, you take a bite... and the damn thing’s as dry as
bone. Shalom Thanksgiving (or, for you secularists, Have another paid government holiday, on the deficit). Aloha!

You know, you can’t end a sentence with a preposition. Boy, are you guys stupid. Where’d you go to school?
Well, we go to Davidson College. Where’s that? Careful buster, you know as well as we do it’s... hey, wait
a minute, who are you anyway? I’m an admissions counselor at Harvard Law. That explains it. By the way, before
this column degenerates completely into an extended collection of one-liners, who do you like in the upcoming primaries? Well, for
the Democrats I really think that action-packed Paul Tsongas is a good choice. And in the Republican primaries, Pat Buchanan
has the best chance of putting a burr in Bush’s britches. You don’t like Bush? The man dodges questions better
than Linda Carter dodges bullets; and they both have a thing about invisible planes. Enough with the strained Buchanan and
Paul Tsongas, eh? Hmm... but who are you going to vote for? Oh, I’m not registered. What? Nope, I haven’t
voted since Nixon. Now there was a candidate. Well, the Birks apologize for wasting yet another column talking to someone
who has less sense than your average Dean of Students (just kidding). Just remember voters of New Hampshire: Vote Early!
Vote Often! Vote Republican!!! Hey, you guys are transvestites aren’t you? I like that in a man. Enough with the
one-liners already. Someone, keep him away from the computer. Ah... eh... How is sex like a game of bridge? No
more jokes; get out of here. Wait, before you go, our readers are curious. How is sex like a game
of bridge? If you have a good hand, you don’t need a partner. Wonder Woman humor. Pat Ahhbh....

Grades Continued from page 7

...in a class of similar size and level in the fall of 1990, in part, I assume, because of mental
adjustments I made for the change in the grading system (not because of changes in the numerical scale). Admittedly, in
both cases there would theoretically have been a discrepancy in favor of the old system had one added minus marks
to some grades in the first list and removed them from the second one. But such a comparison is a
flawed one because neither adjustment allows for the different mental approach to evaluation that actually obtained in both situations. My
hunch is that the long-range impact on college-wide GPA averages, which ultimately depends on the combined effect of the various
mental adjustments that all members of the faculty make, will not be very great. In any event, it will take
some time before we can get a clear reading of the trend. Until then, it is appropriate, I think, that
the faculty’s educational policy committee has voted to maintain the old GPA standards for the awarding of honors graduation: 3.5
in the major and 3.2 overall. (Departments have other criteria as well.) Meanwhile, none of us should get too excited
about the matter. I say that, even though I would have preferred to retain the previous system, in large part
because it involves fewer dividing lines. (I should live happily with a system that had no plus or minus marks
whatsoever.) Finally, please remember that for many faculty members numbers are tools, not determinants, in the inexact exercise of grading.
Remember, too, that if some students “lose” under the new system, others “gain”--but probably only slightly in both cases. By
the way, whatever happened to the noble idea of learning for its own sake?

C. Earl Edmondson
Professor of History
