THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992 13 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Gridders Out for Revenge in Opener Against Guilford

By Chris Hood

In June, head football coach Dave Fagg wrote a flier which he distributed among the staff and players when they
arrived for fall training camp. “Care enough in ’92,” it opened. A number of goals were spelled out on this
sheet, but there is one which has the immediate attention of the Davidson football program: September 5, 1992 - 1:30
p.m.

The ‘Cats, coming off a 4-5 1991 campaign, open their 1992 season at Richardson against the Guilford Quakers, 8-2 a
year ago, this Saturday. The two teams met a year ago in Greensboro in a contest Davidson dropped 21-3. This
season, the ‘Cats look to use experience, an exciting “run-and-shoot” offense, a punishing defense and strong special teams to improve
against what Fagg called “as tough a schedule as I’ve been around.” The ‘Cats’ first four opponents were a combined
30-6-4 last year. Success in ’92 will depend largely on the abundance of leadership experience of this year’s squad. The
roster contains 11 seniors, including a quartet of fifth-year seniors. In all, 19 starters return for another season of football.

On the offensive side, where Davidson returns nine starters, the ‘Cats will rely heavily on a huddle-less run-and-shoot formation. Senior
Richard Howell, who completed 46% of his passes for 757 yards and five touchdowns and added 270 yards and five
touchdowns on the ground, and sophomore Kevin Holzworth, who threw for 483 yards and four scores, will most likely share
duty at the helm. A number of receivers will have many opportunities to show their talents. Last year, senior John
Bodkin pulled in 377 yards’ worth of passes while scoring three times, and junior Kelly Shirley added 333 receiving yards
and six touchdowns. After missing much of the ’91 season with an injury, senior Dan Lamar should regain his prominent
position in the ‘Cats offense.

With the new offensive format, much of the backfield’s focus will revolve around the air attack. Shane Mills, who scored
four touchdowns and led Davidson rushers with 327 yards as a newcomer last year, will primarily catch passes this season.
Senior Mike Wright returns after tallying 326 yards on the ground; sophomore Bruce Bannister, who ran for 288 yards and
three touchdowns before sustaining a season-ending knee injury, looks to regain his early-season form. Four of five starters are back
to anchor the offensive line. Juniors Jack Barry and Rob King and seniors Nathan Fenwick, the ‘Cats 1991 Offensive MVP,
and Ashton Loyd must have solid years if Davidson’s offense is to be productive.

As deep and experienced

See "Football" on page 14

Field Hockey Faces Tough Challenges in 1992 Campaign

By Jennifer Roos

The 1992 field hockey team is very excited for the start of its season. It will have to endure the
most rigorous campaign in Davidson history, but nine starters return to undertake the unyielding schedule. In addition, the Wildcats are
faced with repeating as champions of the Deep South Conference for the third straight year. “Threepeat” is on the mind
of every team member. Four of the teams on the seventeen-game schedule, Duke, Virginia Commonwealth, Radford and James Madison, are
in the national top twenty.while three others, Ohio University, Kent State, and Central Michigan, are top Mid-American Conference competitors. This
is the type of schedule which Davidson hopes to play each year. The expectations are very high for this season
despite the schedule because the Wildcats are used to success. They followed a 14-1-2 record in 1991 with a 10-6-1
record last season. The Wildcats will look to their strong senior class, Monique Dockter, Simone Plaisance, Jenny Plowright, and co-captains
Jennifer Roos and Jacquelin Ukrop, for leadership. Four experienced juniors, Jill Bennett, Emily Coleman, Suzanne Hardesty, and Erin Lang, will
add depth to the team. Davidson will look to cash in on its home field advantage. The Wildcats will have
eight home games, many of them against teams used to playing on artificial turf. The team hopes to use this
advantage, in conjunction with its small passing game and strong defensive game, to knock off some competitors.

New Coach Leads Volleyball Into Southern Conference Competition
By Bruce Balestier

The Mimi Plauche/Holt Hathaway era in Davidson volleyball is over. Plauche, an outside hitter, and Hathaway, a setter, led the
Wildcats for four years, beginning with the early days as the “Freshmen Connection,” and helped the program to a higher
level each year. Davidson earned records of 31-6 and 25-13 and consecutive Big South regular-season titles in their final two
seasons. As if to make it a clean break, coach Rebecca Hawkins left Davidson this summer as well. Hawkins turned
a fledgling club team into a formidable program in the region in her five years on the job, and Carolyn
Blake has been hired to continue the process. In addition, Hathaway has returned to the fold as an assistant coach.

Blake, though little more than two years removed from her graduation from Wake Forest, possesses an impressive volleyball resume, beginning
with her high school playing days in Newport Beach, CA. After winning a 5A state championship at Corona del Mar
H.S., Blake headed to Wake Forest to continue her playing career. But when the Deacons’ program was dropped after her
freshman year, she turned immediately to coaching. Blake coached the team at Bishop McGuinness H.S. in Winston-Salem from 1987 to
1989, leading it to a conference title in 1987. She spent the last two years as an assistant at William
and Mary; during that time, the Tribe went 45-19 and twice made the National Invitational Volleyball Championship.

At Davidson, Blake inherits an experienced team used to being led by Plauche and Hathaway. Blake thinks she has the
potential to continue their success.

See "Volley" on page 14

ATTENTION MAIL SUBSCRIBERS: Pages 7-10 are not included in the home delivery copies of The Davidsonian, as they are the
1992-1993 Student Directory.

DOMINO'S PIZZA

If you think all pizza offers are the same, you’re missing the boat.

Mon.-Tues. Special $6.99!
LARGE 2-TOPPING PIZZA
Valid Mondays and Tuesdays Only!

(AUGUST/SEPTEMBER LATE NITE SPECIAL)
$6.99 Plus Tax
Sun.-Thurs. 10-11:30 pm; Fri.-Sat. 10 pm-12:30 am

One Topping Pizza Plus Two 12 oz. Cokes

Call Us! 896-8007
Shops On The Green * Cornelius
Hours: 4:00 pm - 12 Midnight Sunday-Thursday
4:00 pm - 1:00 am Friday-Saturday

Drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. ©1982 Domino’s Pizza, Inc. Offer Good Thru Sept. 30, 1982
