4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992

Cheating

Continued from page 3

Moffatt’s investigation included 400 Rutgers students who turned in anonymous “self-reports” on subjects such as sexuality and cheating. The results of the cheating question spurred him to write a 22-page report. “I received a great number of graphic papers that were in many more ways shocking than the sexual self-reports. It threw me into a funk,” he said.

Students confided to Moffatt that they cheated to get minimal grades to survive, to get revenge on a disliked professor, or because they were angry because others performed better academically without much effort. Moffatt said cheating often takes such an emotional and mental toll that it would be easier to study. “They are in terror of being caught,” he said of cheaters. “They will fight against the accusation.”

The professor said he has identified five commonly used cheating techniques from the “lookabout,” where answers are borrowed from a neighbor, to “ripple cheating,” which can consist of elaborate, premeditated schemes with many involved. Cheat sheets are so common that Moffatt actually legalized them in his class. Students are allowed to bring in one 8-by-10-inch piece of paper with as much written on it as the space can contain. “It encourages me to not ask stupid questions,” he said.

Cheating also takes other forms, such as plagiarism, paying someone to take a test or write a paper, or buying an already completed term paper. While many campuses wrestle with the problem of cheating, students at the University of Virginia are celebrating the 150th birthday of the nation’s oldest student-run honor system.

For one week, beginning March 27, students take part in a four-day conference on honor and integrity in the academic environment. The topic is discussed at luncheons, dinners, lectures, and seminars. Founded in 1842, Virginia’s honor system is simple: no lying, cheating, or stealing. There is only one punishment; students found guilty of an offense by juries of their peers are dismissed from the university.

While Virginia’s drastic disciplinary measures may not wash on some campuses, many are tightening up their honor codes. In 1985, when officials at the University of Delaware surveyed the student body and discovered that 78 percent admitted to cheating, they immediately revamped their honor code. Now students caught cheating receive a grade of “XF” on their transcripts. Cheating cases are evaluated by a student board, which is known to be tougher on fellow students because they see themselves as victims of cheating.

The University of Maryland also gives students an “XF” grade which remains on the student transcript for a full year. After completing a non-credit six-week course on academic integrity, the students can petition to have the “X” removed.

The spotlight has been on academic integrity for the past several years. “Officials say students seem increasingly willing to do anything to get ahead,” reports an article on academic dishonesty that appeared in the Chronicle of Higher Education (Jan. 17, 1990). “The students are frightened about the job market. They’re searching for the pre-wealth curriculum. The value of money is more important to them than a code of honesty and sense of responsibility,” said Arthur Levine, chairman of the Institute for Education Management at Harvard University, in the same article.

Ford

Continued from page 1

new Commonwealth, leaving the Commonwealth with great suffering and angry leaders, and leaving the West with the uncertainty of the Commonwealth’s nuclear stockpile. “Southern areas of Asia, especially Iran and Turkey, will be of special interest.” Ford said he thinks a close watch will need to be kept on, “terrorism, hostage taking, laundering, and international drug trade.” He also spoke of continuing conflict out of Africa and Latin America.

The new threat of the decade could prove to be within third and fourth world countries. “Third and fourth world coups, accessibility of weapons, starvation, mass migration and refugees, and environmental destruction,” will be the greatest threats coming from these under-developed nations, he said.

When asked about the Gulf War, Ford commented, “Oil is why we went to war in the Gulf. Desert Storm proved one thing, we are good at killing.” He felt that the war accomplished some things but obviously left a lot of wounds.” Ford did not view the state of our own country as being any better, describing it as, “1000 points of dimness here athome.” He expressed chagrin at how the Cold War “has distorted our scientific capabilities.”

Nicaragua Continued from page 1

effort with three consecutive $100 million campaigns. Working simultaneously through the Institute of John the 23rd in Managua, the organization provides aid nationally throughout Nicaragua, relieving all poor, rural areas affected by the war. A large part of the success of the organization, however, can be attributed to the Mothers of Matagalpa, a group of women who have lost children to the war and have since devoted themselves to the transformation of Nicaragua into a nation that is “more just, more human, more loving, and more believing.” They have taken the grief they felt over the loss of their children and transformed it into a process of developing their land,” Callahan said.

Next to speak was Ketxu Amazua, an international coordinator of the humanitarian aid program who has worked for over two decades in Nicaragua and other countries such as Guatemala, El Salvador, and Panama, overseeing the development and transformation of poor, urban areas. Amazua explained that the true essence of the establishment is catalytic, helping people to help themselves. “Our projects are simply a means of empowering people to make their own decisions and to take possession of their own lives,” she said. “Our goal is to help the poor with the material beginnings that will enable them to develop their own projects.” These projects, Amazua continued, will ultimately lead to a more harmonious existence among the Nicaraguans. “We seek the integrated development of the community,” she said.

Amazua was followed by Esperanza Cruz de Cabrera, co-founder of the Mothers of Matagalpa, an organization which currently boasts 600 mothers on the state level and 1,567 on the regional level. For both Amazua and Cruz, the Christian faith has been a constant source of comfort and motivation. For Cruz and the many mothers in her group, however, it is the memory of a child to whom one’s work is dedicated. “We mothers are not politicians,” she said, “but we would be forgetting them (the children who died in the revolution) if we did not continue along the path that they forged.”

FREE 2 ROLLS 35mm Film

Try this Exciting New Film!

“Its main forte is color reproduction.”

Rave Reviews

“You can see the difference between cherry red and tomato red.” — Photographic Magazine

Now you can try the 35mm film Photographic Magazine calls the best 200 ASA print film in the World! To introduce you, we'll send you two rolls Free. Fine grain, rich color, wide exposure latitude — perfect for everyday shots. Shoot in bright or low light — indoors or outdoors. And you can order prints, slides, or both, from the same roll! Try this remarkable film today. 100% Satisfaction Guaranteed.

SEND ME 2 ROLLS FREE!

RUSH me two 20-exposure rolls of your highly acclaimed film, one each at 200 ASA and 400 ASA. Enclosed is $2.00 for shipping. Limit: 2 rolls per household. Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks, Elliott Bay at Pier 89, P.O. Box 34056, Seattle, WA 98124-1056. #25334 ©1992 Seattle FilmWorks. Free film offer does not include developing. Process SFW-XL™ at Seattle FilmWorks with limited availability from other labs.

Session I: May 14-June 19, 1992, Session II: June 25-July 31, 1992

UNC-CH offers over 900 courses in over 40 disciplines. A typical course load per session is 6 semester hours. Some evening and night courses and three-week short courses are offered. Thirty spaces still available in three-week Summer School Study Abroad programs.

Approximate Cost per Session: Tuition and fees of about $115 plus $40 per credit hour for NC resident undergraduate or $271 per credit hour for nonresident undergraduate.

Be a Summer Tar Heel!

Students from any college or university, graduates, teachers, and rising high school seniors may apply as Visiting Summer Students for first, second, or both sessions.

For details, please send me a catalog and application form:

Name
Street
City
State
Zip

Mail to: Summer School, CB #3340, 200 Pettigrew Hall, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3340. Phone: (800) UNC1-123; Fax: (919) 962-2752. (AA/EEO Institution)