THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992 13 Sports

ON THE SPORTS FRONT
Bruce Balestier

Davidson’s women’s basketball season, its first in five years, began tentatively November 12 with a scrimmage at Belmont Abbey. With fall sports seasons barely over and just a few days of practice under their belt, the Wildcats entered that scrimmage with ion came wae close in a flurry of contrasts. Davidson looked and kage from the open-

'Cats Rebound With Three in a Row: Streak Snapped With Win Over UNCA
By Bruce Balestier

Entering their game Monday night against UNC-Asheville, the Davidson basketball team knew that, if they were going to make any sort of move up in the Big South standings, it would have to start with a win over the Bulldogs. It wasn’t a masterpiece, but the Wildcats did get a 76-68 win, powered mainly by 29-38 shooting at the free throw line and 22 points from Detlef Musch. The win halted a seven-game losing streak.

In each half, Davidson threatened to put the Bulldogs out of their misery, but could not finish the job. Two baskets in the lane by George Spain and a leaning shot in the paint by Jason Zimmerman gave the ‘Cats a 36-29 lead with :46 left in the first half, before they let UNCA back in it. As Mario Joyner scored for the Bulldogs with :28 to go, Sterling Freeman was called for a foul off the ball. Robert Watson made only the first free throw, but Mike Alexander rebounded the miss and laid it in; Davidson held just a 36-34 halftime lead.

Early in the second half, the Wildcats pulled away to a nine-point lead before running out of steam. Musch, taking the ball constantly at two defenders, made five of six foul shots in the first four minutes of the half to push the Davidson lead to 45-36. But the surge stopped there, as UNCA

By Bruce Balestier

It’s no secret to anyone that as Detlef Musch goes, so go the Davidson Wildcats. Wednesday night, Musch was too sexy for Charleston Southern; his efficient 20-point performance led the ‘Cats to a 77-65 win, their second consecutive Big South victory. For the second year in a row, Davidson seems to be attempting to salvage a disappointing season with a late-season surge to the conference tournament.

Musch fought through double-teams to hit 8-12 shots from the floor, and hit 4-4 from the free throw line; each foul shot came at the tail end of a three-point play. It was arguably the most effective Musch has been this season.

Early on, it looked as if Musch would be the one having his butt kicked. Smaller and faster Bernard Nelson of Charleston Southern took Musch outside on the first two Buccaneer possessions and hit short jumpers, then finished a fast break with a dunk as the Bucs took a 6-2 lead. The lead reached 13-6 with 15 minutes to play before Davidson responded. Musch’s 10 points inside in the half opened up the three-point arc; Jason Zimmerman and Janko Narat each hit a pair of threes in the half. The Wildcats led 39-33 at the intermission.

The Bucs made the first basket of the second half to get within four points (39-35), but once

By Bruce Balestier

Using aggressive defense and a near-perfect second half by Detlef Musch as catalysts, Davidson extended their well-timed winning streak to three games Saturday night, with a 59-52 triumph over Winthrop in Rock Hill, S.C. The victory raised the Wildcats’ record to 10-16, 5-8 in the Big South.

As has traditionally been the case against Winthrop, the game was much closer than it ought to have been. Davidson held a 19-18 lead after an ugly and utterly forgettable first half in which both teams shot under 30% from the field. Musch missed all five of his shots, picked up three fouls and did not score in the half.

But Musch owned the low block after halftime; he made all six of his field goals and four of six free throws to score 16 points. Musch’s effective play led the Wildcats to 58% shooting in the second half, but still they could not gain much breathing room. In fact, Winthrop trailed by just one point (41-40) with 5:31 left before Davidson pulled tentatively away. Musch’s layup off a lob pass by J.D. Heuer made it 47-42 with 2:21

Men's 2-Mile Relay Team Takes Third at Southern ConferenceMeet By Peter Hurtado

The men’s track and field team picked a fine time to turn the intensity up a few notches, posting several outstanding times and scoring seven points at the Southern Conference Indoor Championships at ETSU this weekend. Head Coach Gary Andrew maintained, “this was the best indoor performance by a Davidson squad since I’ve been coaching here.” Sophomore Duncan Spears continued his domination in the 400m, blazing to a 51.26 to place 7th overall. Duncan broke his own school record set only a week ago with his performance. Senior Ted Richardson also placed 7th in the 3000m run with a

'See "Men's Track" on page 14

scored four in a row to cut it to 45-40. Again at the 12:18 mark, when Spain scored on a set inbounds play to make it 51-42, the ‘Cats seemed ready to put the game out of reach, but again the Dogs cut it to five. Finally, with 6:37 left, Musch’s turnaround jumper got the lead into double-digits (63-52), and despite some careless turnovers that might have been a factor against a better team, Davidson captured the win. The Wildcats’ half-long parade to the line and improved defense made the difference. Thanks to 18 second-half fouls by UNCA, Davidson shot 29 foul shots in the period, making 21. Their defense limited the Bulldogs to 33% shooting from the field in the half. Musch operated effectively in the pivot, despite the consistent double-team, hitting 7-12 field goals, 8-11 free throws, and grabbing 8 rebounds. Point guard Frank Harris led the ‘Cats to a 42-35 cushion on the boards with 10 rebounds, and also scored 16 points. J.D. Heuer (11 points) saw the balance of the minutes at the 4 spot for the second game in a row; the addition of another perimeter threat to the lineup takes some defensive pressure from Musch. Zimmerman scored 10 and handed out 7 assists. The win lifted the ‘Cats to 8-16, 3-8 in Big South play.

Musch is the Man as 'Cats Whip Bucs

Narat hit a three-pointer and Zimmerman stole the ball and took it in for a layup to force a Charleston Southern timeout. After the timeout, Narat hit another three-pointer and Musch converted a three-point play for a 50-37 edge. The Buccaneers could come only as close as seven points thereafter. The defense of J.D. Heuer, with help from Musch and Narat, held Nelson scoreless after a 15-point first half. Davidson’s large lead late in the game made it possible for coach Bob McKillop to insert all three walk-ons for the first time all year. Freshman Linton Elliott (1-4 ft) and senior Matt (Chilly-Mo) Matheny entered the game with 1:19 left, and freshman Tim Caldwell joined them with 30 seconds to play. McKillop was, of course, pleased to have a rare easy win, and saw offensive balance as the key. “For the first time tonight,” he said, “we got an inside-outside game, and it was pretty balanced.” Narat broke out of a slump to lead the outside attack with 19 points, including 4-5 three-point shooting. Point guard Frank Harris added 17, and his eight boards led the team for the second successive game.

Defense the Key in Victory Over Winthrop

With 1:47 to go, Winthrop cut it to 51-49, but Narat made five of six free throws after that to secure the victory. Stingy defense was a constant for the ‘Cats in the win; Winthrop shot just 32.7% for the game. Specifically, Davidson coach Bob McKillop singled out his team’s defense on Eagle center Mark Hailey as a key. Hailey, who scored 24 points in Winthrop’s one-point win over Davidson in January, was held to 4 points on 0-8 shooting by Wildcat defenders J.D. Heuer, George Spain, Paul Drobnitch, and Ron Horton. Point guard Frank Harris turned in one of his best games of the season, hitting seven of eight shots and scoring 16 points to tie Musch for team-high. Narat added 10 on 8-10 shooting from the foul line. Davidson will conclude its regular season tonight at 7:30 in Belk Arena against second-place Liberty (21-5). It will be the final home appearance for Wildcat seniors Paul Drobnitch, Sterling Freeman, and Paul Denmond.

Home Athletic Events: March 2-6

Monday, March 2:
Baseball v. Western Carolina, 2:30
Basketball v. Liberty, Senior Night, 7:30

Tuesday, March 3:
Men’s & Women’s Tennis v. Kenyon, 2:00

Friday, March 6:
Baseball v. Combe (2), Noon