6 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1992

Beyond Birkenstock: Hey, The Birks Are Back.....Read On and ENJOY!!!

“Biologists have discovered... what appears to be one of the largest and oldest living creatures known to science. This subterranean monster is about as massive as an adult blue whale. Its life span compares with that of the giant sequoia. It is a mushroom.”
The Charlotte Observer April 2, 1992

Well, Birkies... science has finally done something useful. Apparently, during a break from creating toxic waste or plastic patio furniture, a particular group of scientists in upstate Michigan identified a monster of a mushroom bigger than five football fields. Quite a find, huh? (And, for all of those who may be interested, this one is non-hallucinogenic.)

Now, you’re probably thinking of some gargantuan fungus ripping up trees and throwing boulders. You know, something for Godzilla to contend with, now that Mothra has passed away—something like the Blob. Or maybe Evander Holyfield would take this thing on for the world title, since Mike is otherwise occupied (he can’t get away right now).

No, no... enough humor for a moment. This innocuous giant is no match for a garden tiller, much less Don King. In fact, the scientists who made the miraculous discovery are declining to pinpoint the exact location for the mushroom’s own safety (besides, they say it’s delicious).

Although the train of thought might suggest it, we’re not bringing this poor, innocent mushroom into the harsh, fluorescent glow of media scrutiny for no discernible purpose. Neither are we trying to note with irony how something that has lived undisturbed for 1500 years probably hasn’t got a snowball’s chance in hell of lasting two more years if its whereabouts become generally known (a couple of weeks ago, some well-meaning morons scrubbed priceless prehistoric paintings off a cave in France; they thought they were cleaning graffiti).

No, what we thought we’d dwell on today has more to do with the size of the fungus than with its tenuous existence. Have you ever noticed, whatever it is... if it’s the biggest whatever, you'll see it in the paper or on CNN. The venerable 24-hour news network takes it as its sacred duty to report every 2000-pound peanut butter sandwich that some PR firm in Georgia slaps together. And who honestly cares if the largest ball of aluminum foil in existence happens to be sitting in somebody’s backyard?

The same phenomenon is universally present. Remember that film in your high school science course that took the time to mention “THE LARGEST COPPER MINE IN THE WORLD...ONE SO LARGE, IT CAN BE SEEN FROM SPACE”? Think about it, and you’ll see how common this fascination with size really is. Quick... what attribute is Dolly Parton best known for? Certainly, it’s not her consummate acting skill in Sylvester Stallone movies. And our most convincing example... that’s right, John C. Holmes. We don’t need to beat this thing into the ground. It’s just an observation.

OK, the point. It seems to us that this human fascination with size (whether deserved or not) has fundamentally shaped the way in which our civilization is organized. Bigger is necessarily better. Bigger guns, larger ships, more magnificent buildings... whatever it is (especially in America, but not exclusively) it better kick some butt. You think it was an accident that the Pentagon is the largest office building in the world (we think)? It’s the largest because, by implication, we are the best and thus need a bigger building than anybody else on earth.

What do you do if you want to establish the legitimacy of your religion... that’s right, build a BIG church. Now think, what’s the biggest church you’ve ever heard of—yep, that Vatican-based thing. Here’s a fine example of the addiction to bigness endemic to society. How exactly does the infrastructure of the venerable Roman Catholic Church break down? Well, the Pope bone’s connected to the Cardinal bone... the Cardinal bone’s connected to the Bishops’ bones... and onto infinity. Anyway, our question is this: how much do the Pope and the Vatican really know about St. Mary’s of Topeka? Basically nothing. The Kansas diocese probably makes most of the decisions and the Vatican only intervenes to collect the poll tax.

What does all this have to do with the Big Mushroom? A lot. Are you beginning to see how mushroom-like these things become? Well, it’s like this. The mushroom is so large that it doesn’t even care if some scientists take a big chunk of it and sauté it in a good white wine. We should mention that the fungus’s ability to lose a large chunk and continue on about its business is (evolutionarily speaking) an advantageous survival tool.

Rude Notes and Random Scribblings

It's Our Responsibility to Act Accordingly

Students have in the last several weeks looked to others to place the blame for “unavoidable” changes in the alcohol policy. They have scapegoated everyone from SAE to Dean Terry to Dean Williams. One popular group to harass is the Charlotte news. Why do they care so much about Davidson anyway? For that matter, why does anyone care? The answer is the government. Earlier this...Year, the national government approved a change in its policy regarding federal funds allocated to private and public colleges and universities. To enforce their imposed drinking age on college campuses, they designed a system under which colleges had to make a good faith effort to rid their campuses of underage drinking. Now, I am not sure how this money is allocated to Davidson College; however, the word on the street says we get some. By drawing attention to our drinking, breaking bottles and windows in our houses, and leaving cups all over the Court, we are defeating our own cause. We create a scene which can very easily be seen as a problem, even if we see it as everyday college life. It is unfortunate that the SAE problem arose at this time when you consider that many of the allegations hovering around that house involve drinking, but this is not their fault. The college has begun to abuse a privilege they take as a right. We are underage drinkers, most of us, and it is illegal in every state in this country to drink alcohol. It does not matter if you see your drinking as a matter of convenience or civil disobedience, you are breaking the law. As an institution, Davidson cannot condone this behavior, no matter how much we complain about the proposed changes. The solution is not anger but action. We must control our drinking as a group. We must show Kuykendall and his insurers that we can handle ourselves. This campus will go dry if widespread abuse continues. But, what does that mean, abuse? Certainly, it brings up the problem of alcoholism, but it carries another meaning. As a school, we must stop going to class drunk. Going to class with a hangover can be handled, for a hungover person is no more difficult to deal with than one who has stayed up all night studying. However, a drunk student disrupts class. Another problem lies in the numerous fights that take place on the Court. These do not give the administration the confidence they are looking for in us. We must show that we can handle ourselves in a social manner. As the man says, we must learn to handle our liquor. It should be the responsibility of the house holding the party to break up the fight, not by kicking one or both of the opponents in the groin, but by calming them down. Take them outside if necessary; send them to satellite to fight it out alone, but don’t let things get out of control. Essentially, the problem lies in our hands. If we can keep the faculty out of our faces, if we can keep the cameras off campus, then we can keep our privilege. We must show that we intend to be responsible for something we cannot take for granted.

In human systems, like Davidson College, redundancy is just waste. The likelihood that anyone is going to come along and kill the Registrar is very small (probably nonexistent). So why are all those people in that office? Well, you might reply, FOR GREATER EFFICIENCY. Uh huh... we gotta bridge we’d love to sell you. How many of you have experienced that famous Davidson efficiency? Trying to get a transcript before Friday is the real “Davidson experience.” Or try putting meals on your CAT card without walking back and forth across campus three times. The same efficiency that produces YOUR GOVERNMENT is also at work on YOUR CAMPUS. Who do you think pays the bills around here anyway? The tuition increases at least nine percent every year... does the Commons get nine percent better every year? What do we deserve, another faculty secretary, or another faculty member? Let’s include “making copies” in the job descriptions for professors. Stop thinking and get back to work! (Of course we’re being facetious.) Thanks to David Campbell, we can conclude that, in twenty-one years (given a 9% increase every year), our children will be bringing this tuition bill home, annually: $1,039,761.55. Whoo! In addition, the infighting produced by redundant departments and bloated staffs suggests that personnel reductions probably wouldn’t hurt anybody that much (are you listening Trustees?). A cursory look at the catalog and we count eleven people with “dean” in their title. So who’s the “Dean of Deans” around here? There was a time when there was one school, one dean. Is this just title inflation running rampant (thanks Dr. Holland)? We have a situation where one dean signs onto a report highly critical of another (and you know who you are). The way we see it, accountability on either side seems incredibly muddled. Let’s clear them all out and start over with half as many. (We’ll keep Dr. Kuykendall). And this could apply to all levels of school administration. Maybe then we could go one whole year without increasing tuition, and perhaps attract back some of the middle-class students that made the name Davidson worth something. So you see, it all goes back to that mushroom. A seemingly innocent, yet surprisingly insidious fungus has become our paradigm for a creeping, expensive, and largely useless social trend toward bureaucratization and waste. Let’s unload some ballast before the ship sinks.

CAMPUS FORUM ON THE PRESIDENTIAL WORKING GROUP ON ATHLETICS REPORT
TUESDAY, APRIL 14
4 PM IN THE MORRISON ROOM, UNION