THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992 13

Campus Living

Junior Spends Fall in Africa With Field Studies School

By John Rowe

My sophomore year, I really needed to go somewhere completely different; the decision to spend my fall semester in Kenya
was one of the easier ones in my life. I traveled to Africa with the School for Field Studies wildlife
management and conservation program with twenty-nine other students, but the lessons and experiences I hold most dearly have little to
do with game management. The three months that I spent in Africa were amazing, and I wish that I could
relive every second there from day one.

Our camp and the ranch that surrounded it meant the most to me. The camp was extravagant compared to the
lifestyles of most Kenyans. When I say extravagant, I mean that our outhouses, or choos in Swahili, had seats and
that our shower water was warm some of the time. The camp was also surrounded by much wildlife; giraffe and
monkeys wandering through our courtyard during class time would always jolt me into the realization of being in Africa. There,
even the most basic activities held a certain excitement; going to the choos in the morning, I would often spark
the curiosity of a family of monkeys living in a tree outside my choo window. We quickly learned to appreciate
the small things around us.

No matter when or where someone spends time abroad, that person will gain a new and different perspective on life.
For me, the people of Kenya had the most profound effect. Even in the face of extreme poverty, the Kenyans
retained an intense generosity, compassion, happiness, and love of camaraderie. Otieno, a Kenyan who spent much time with us...

Jones Travels To Israel for Christmas Break

By Susan Sheffield

Meg Jones, a junior religion major, spent her Christmas vacation in the place Christ was born and raised. On a
student study tour of the Mideast sponsored by the University of Iowa Campus Ministry, she visited several historical sites, such
as Bethlehem, Jerusalem, Nazareth, Galilee, and Jericho. The spiritual feeling of being in an area of such significance was amazing:
“I thought my insides were going to burst.... One night I was listening to the prayers being sung out. These
were powerful sounds that vibrate to your soul. I would get mad when a car would come by and honk
because it would drown them out.”

However, this was no ordinary 30 cities in 15 days tour. The mission of the journey was to give the
students a clearer factual basis for their thoughts on the Middle East conflict. America’s near-blanket pro-Israel policies are the bulk
of what form our citizens' opinions. This program, admittedly slanted toward the Palestinian plight, allowed the students to...

...Division of the Israeli Foreign Ministry Department. As Meg summarized his speech, she was taken aback by some of his
statements in edge of human rights abuses directed at Palestinians, specifically that, “Israel is a democratic state where everyone expresses
himself freely.” Other points that he made: one, Israel wants no monetary support from any nation. Two, the Jewish state
would rather suffer criticism than to lose its homeland. Three, Arab countries like to have the Palestinians visible and suffering
in order to garner world sympathy, so they will not absorb the refugees. According to Meg, he never did elaborate
on why their methods of control over the Arabs were so harsh, though asked several times.

She visited several refugee camps, where she viewed the incredibly unsanitary conditions and spoke with residents. Garbage heaps and raw
sewage become almost inconsequential when one hears of the stories of Israeli soldiers. Methods of crowd control and retaliatory measures
in the Arab settlements on the West Bank include spraying crowds with rubber bullets, imposing strict curfews (one 24-hour curfew
in Ramallah lasted for three weeks) and executing collective punishment, such as tear-gassing random homes for the actions of one
or two individuals. Another story from the Gaza Strip is almost too horrifying to recount. Soldiers took an eighty-year-old man
and threw him into the lake of sewage that is in the center of the camp in order to punish
him. He drowned in urine and feces.

Conversations with Palestinians in Jerusalem reinforced the dislike she felt for the disparity between the two nations. For example, one
man spoke of the work permits for which he must apply every three months in order to cross into the
eastern side of the city safely. Furthermore, he only receives 700 shekels a month at his job. If he were
a Jewish man in the same position, he...might be able to afford his 2,000 shekel a month rent. Despite all
that she saw in Gaza, Meg was able to remain objective about the Israeli people. A visit to the Yad
Vashem Holocaust Museum reminded her of the atrocities of the 1930s and '40s. Nonetheless, she was saddened by the observation
that she and several others on the trip made, that in several of the descriptions of oppression of the Jewish
people, the word Palestinian could be substituted. All Israelis are not in favor of the occupation of Palestine. One group,
the Women in Black, stage a silent protest every Friday on a busy intersection in Jerusalem. Even the soldiers have
no idea about the complexity of the situation. "All they know is that they are in the Army and they
have been assigned to guard this post for eight hours a night. They are all asking why they can’t have
peace," says Meg. Everyone she spoke to wanted an end to the conflict, but how could they achieve it? Partition,
relocation of the Arabs, or co-existence are the obvious choices, but what would happen? "This trip made me a lot
clearer in terms of confused about what to do."

taught the group a new way of looking at life; he thought that we, "crazy Americans," had lost sight of
the whole picture. In other words, we had forgotten the basic art of living life simply, an art that cannot
be learned by spending just three months there, but that can be admired. Since trips to the shower were rare
and trips to the choo all too frequent, the friendships within our group sprung from tales of diarrhea and body
odor. The twenty-nine of us, including Davidson juniors Heather Tarpley and Lara Teal, learned to tolerate each other’s foibles and
live together twenty-four hours a day for three months. We suffered through many things, including our cooking of such creations
as giraffe burgers, rice with the consistency of grits, and meatballs made of zebra meat. These small problems strengthened our
friendships which, in turn, enhanced our appreciation of the surrounding country.

Going abroad offers an immense opportunity that nobody should miss. Whether the time is for a year or a summer
or even after graduation, it does not matter; it is all what you make of it.

A Brief History of Davidson's Literary Societies:
By Towner Blackstock

Students of today’s Davidson College would hardly recognize the Davidson of 1837, then just a budding school of three professors
and about sixty students. Imagine a place with a two-story chapel instead of Cunningham Fine Arts Building, three dorms (Oak
and Elm, with a third long gone), and a professor’s house where the current well is located. There were no
sports, no fraternities, no town (yet), no girls, and the closest city was over twenty miles away during a time
when there were no trains or cars. As classes went, everyone took Latin, Greek, algebra, and geometry for the first
two years, with some sciences thrown in during the last two. No one had any choices as to what class
to take, and all of the classes were completely rhetorical, meaning you spit out what you read and didn’t think
for yourself. To the eyes of any modern student, the Davidson of 1837 was a stifling place... and the students
of 1837 would probably have agreed.

After about a month on campus, they created the first of two literary societies. These groups were common on most
college campuses of the early nineteenth century. They were the fraternities of the day, with secret rituals, membership dues, social
functions, and a sometimes rowdy, but deeply honorable, reputation. Davidson’s societies were no exception, and their legacy continues to this
day. The Eumenean Debating Society (known at first as Polemic) was founded in April of 1837, and the Philanthropic Literary
Society first met in June. According to Eumenean minutes, they were started "as a means of improvement not to be
secured in the regular college work." The Preamble of the Phi Society describes such improvement as "the study of rhetoric,
logic, and ethic... a high regard for virtue and truth," and the growth of "closer bonds of friendship" with "those
we feel interested and deem worthy of our esteem." The rhetoric bit certainly doesn’t sound like a fraternity, and for
sure, they hardly seemed to act like one from the accounts of their meetings.

Meetings were held on Wednesday nights and Monday mornings in the basement rooms of the college chapel. Usually, a topic
would be assigned the previous meeting, and a few members would be selected to debate the topic, while others would
have to turn in formal papers or deliver a speech. These topics ranged from "is female education of as much
impor-

See "Phi. & Eu." on page 14
