THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

Yea! We're 18th . . . So What?

U.S. News & World Report released its sixth annual survey of America’s Best Colleges today, and Davidson actually moved up three spots to number eighteen, after dropping eleven spots last year from number ten to number twenty-one. What exactly does all of this mean? Are we a slightly better school than last year, but still not quite as good as we were two years ago? Will the quality of our applicants increase because we are now one of the top twenty national liberal arts colleges?

The basic answer to these questions is that the quality of a Davidson education has changed very little in the past few years. Over the years that U.S. News has conducted this ridiculous annual survey of trying to statistically rank colleges, Davidson has been ranked fifteenth, twentieth, tenth, twenty-first, and eighteenth. It is rather disturbing the amount of attention that is given to these rankings across the country, considering the way in which the magazine analyzes and computes the data. U.S. News has devised its own system of giving certain weights to specific statistics provided to them by the colleges in areas such as financial or faculty resources. For example, the magazine can change the weight placed on certain areas that they have deemed important for a college or university to emphasize. This year the magazine changed the way in which they weighted the five main categories used to determine a college’s overall score: academic reputation, student selectivity, faculty resources, financial resources, and student satisfaction. More weight was given to the category of student satisfaction than in years past and less weight was given to the faculty resources category. Since Davidson had a high ranking in student satisfaction (15) and a low ranking in faculty resources (51), this change helped us to move up three places.

But what if next year the magazine decides to change the way in which they weight these categories once again and instead of benefiting the college as it did this year it emphasizes categories where we are weak, and as a result Davidson falls out of the top twenty-five? We would lose national name recognition not because the quality of a Davidson education had changed, but simply because this respected national news magazine had decided to change the way in which they analyzed their data on colleges. The top twenty-five is the list highlighted in the magazine and sent out as a press release to colleges and universities across the country. UNC-Chapel Hill fell out of the top twenty-five this year, but only to number twenty-eight. Despite a small drop of only three places, already media, such as the Charlotte Observer with an article headlined “UNC off list of top 25 schools” (9/18/92), have begun to highlight this basically inconsequential fact. Even the senior editor of U.S. News, Robert Morse, admitted to the Observer that, “The statistical difference between 25, 26, 27 and 28 is insignificant. We make it significant because those 25 get a higher profile in the magazine.” This kind of thinking serves to show just how out-of-line this survey is, because it perfectly explains that U.S. News feels like it has the liberty to affect a college’s reputation by making an insignificant statistical difference important.

Quite simply, although we have also given the ranking prominent coverage in this paper, people should realize that this ranking is essentially meaningless, considering the latitude that U.S. News has in how it conducts this survey. Davidson should not care whether we are ranked fifth, fortieth, or eighteenth. Slight differences in statistical data or alterations in how the survey is weighted can and do make a large difference in a college’s ranking. This kind of ranking is not fair to any of the colleges involved. Schools cannot be statistically quantified or ranked in order from best to worst. Therefore, it is the Davidsonian’s hope that this college and others will refrain from taking this ranking seriously. U.S. News is not helping out the process of applying to colleges, but instead is providing a huge disservice to institutions of higher learning across the country.

Distributed by Tribune Media Services

Letters

Sutton Responds to Norwood

To the Editor:

Tom Norwood, in his column of September 15, asserts that Davidson College practices tokenism concerning the recruitment and admission of African-American students. He is absolutely wrong. As Interim Dean of Admission last year, I witnessed the tremendous effort on the part of the Admission staff to recruit and enroll African-American students. We mailed out applications and brochures toOver 3,000 African-American students. Bob Douthit, Associate Dean of Admission, traveled to high school fairs targeting African-Americans. Every currently-enrolled African-American student at Davidson and all black alumni were asked for their help in identifying and recruiting African-American prospective students. Every application that arrived from an African-American was treated with great care, including letters and phone calls to the applicants. To state that Davidson really isn’t interested in African-American students is totally false and demeans the efforts of every person on the Admission staff, who are extremely dedicated to recruiting those students.

In spite of, or because of those efforts, we had about 75 applications from African-American students; most years we have between 60 and 90. We had a total number of applications of about 2350. Therefore, only about three per cent of our applicants were from African-Americans, but nearly five per cent of the class are African-Americans. To suggest that we keep out black applicants who should be admitted so that we may practice tokenism is ludicrous.

Mr. Norwood also fails to put our 6% (actually 5%) of African-American students in a perspective related to other institutions. Oberlin College has 8% African-Americans, probably the highest of any such institution. Amherst, Williams, and Swarthmore are between 6 and 7.5 per cent. We are ahead of many other excellent liberal arts colleges, such as Carleton, Bates, and Washington & Lee. While we certainly want to have a larger percentage of African-American students here, the percentages at nearly all other liberal arts colleges are not substantially higher. In spite of major efforts to recruit and enroll African-American students, liberal arts colleges have not been remarkably successful in substantially increasing the percentages of African-American students on their campuses. For one thing, the Historically Black Colleges have seen increasingly large numbers of applications, and larger public institutions where tuition is lower have also experienced gains.

As one can see, the question of recruitment and enrollment of African-American students is much more complex than Mr. Norwood would have us believe. Rather than accuse the administration of racism or tokenism, students can sign up for the Ambassadors program to host prospective students for an overnight visit. Rather than cast aspersions on our admission efforts, students could go visit their high schools and recruit for the college. Every staff member in Grey House is vitally committed to recruiting and enrolling qualified African-American students. Mr. Norwood’s charge of tokenism concerning their admission is false and unjust.

Homer B. Sutton
Associate Professor of French
Interim Dean of Admission 1991-92

Bring Back WALT

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor:

Watch out! I am coming out of the woodwork! After four semesters of silence, I have decided to voice my opinions in “The South’s Foremost College Weekly” rather than just bitch about them on Patterson Court.

Where is WALT? It is high time that this campus got an alternative station, run by the students, to play music that college students listen to. Davidson already has one station (and a very good one), that plays a classical music format. WDAV, 88.9 on your FM dial, has enough power to reach Charlotte and points beyond. One of WALT’s problems was not enough power. Belk could listen to the music, but those in Cannon had no chance of hearing anything but static. There needs to be a source on this campus to hear music from the concerts that we are so fortunate to see. The stations in Charlotte will play the Red Hot Chili Peppers, but never Phish, Allgood, or the Beastie Boys. WALT would also be a good place to sample the music from upcoming concerts, another news source besides “The Flyer,” and a chance for students to sample the music reviewed in “The South’s Foremost.” DCTV is a wonderful idea, but the majority of us never see the messages or programs until the trustees agree to furnish every dormitory room with cable TV. Everyone, however, has a radio.

This issue was brought to the attention of the Trustees last year and was killed. It is time they did something for the students. The Trustees have taken something away from the students. It is time they give us something in return.

Sincerely,
Jim Livingston