THE DAVIDSONIAN - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

Improved Wildcats Likely to Struggle in Conference
By Bruce Balestier

If you ask the people Davidson basketball coach Bob McKillop calls the “so-called experts,” the Wildcats’ first year back in
the Southern Conference is going to be an awfully long one. Davidson is picked eighth in the 10-team league by
Street and Smith’s, ninth by the NCAA Basketball Preview, and last by The Sporting News. And even McKillop says that
those forecasts of doom are “understandable.”

Those publications “pick us based upon our previous performance,” McKillop says, “and our previous performance indicates that we would struggle
in the Southern Conference.” In part, McKillop is referring to last year’s 11-17 campaign, in which Davidson finished tied for
fifth place in the Big South with a 6-8 record. That frustrating team sometimes showed that it had the wherewithal
to hang with major competition (as in a 66-62 win over Miami) and sometimes suggested that it could lose to
any team in the country (as in a 68-67 loss to Winthrop).

Most of the significant players from that team return, including its top three scorers, junior swingman Janko Narat, senior center
Detlef Musch, and junior guard Jason Zimmerman. One significant subtraction was point guard Frank Harris, who averaged 10.4 points per
game as a freshman last season but decided this summer not to return to Davidson.

Zimmerman has been the starter at off-guard during each of his first two seasons, averaging 12.5 and 11.8 points per
game, respectively, and possesses a deft shooting touch beyond 20 feet. But he will begin this season as the starter
at point guard. Zimmerman has seen only limited action at the point in the past, and the smoothness of his
transition to full-time status will be critical to the team’s success. Freshmen Chris Alpert, Matt Grieser, and Frantisek Babka will
back up Zimmerman, with senior co-captain Matt Matheny in a reserve role.

Zimmerman’s shift to the point leaves a vacancy at off-guard, and freshman Jeff Anderson has announced himself the major candidate
for the job with his strong showing during the first three weeks of practice. He slashed his way to 14
points on 7-9 shooting in Saturday’s Red-Black scrimmage.

Anderson is one of a group of players capable of playing both the off-guard and small forward. Narat was the
team’s MVP, best three-point shooter, and leading scorer (14.0 ppg) as the starter at small forward last year, and figures
to be the starter there again. But he will also spend time at the big guard spot; Babka, 6’5" with
an accurate perimeter jump shot, and Anderson will also swing between the two spots. Freshman Brandon Williams is the best
athlete on the team, and gave the crowd a hint of his leaping ability with an impressive alley-oop dunk in
the Red-Black game. He should see

'92-'93 Hoop 'Cats Top-Heavy With Freshmen
By Bruce Balestier

Chris Alpert 5’11" 170 G Muttontown, N.Y.
Alpert attended Chaminade H.S. in Mineola, N.Y., the same high school that produced Davidson coach Bob McKillop. As a senior
in 1991, he was MVP of the Long Island Catholic League and was named to the All-Long Island team. Alpert
spent last year at Northfield Mount Hermon School in Northfield, Ma. He is a scrappy player who figures to back
up junior Jason Zimmerman at the point.

Brandon Williams 6’6" 205 F/G Collinston, La.
Williams played at Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, N.H., where his 6’9" high jumping ability earned him the nickname “Ozone.”
He averaged 25 points and 11 rebounds per game as a senior at Exeter, and was named a Blue Ribbon
All-American and nominated as a McDonald’s All-American. Williams is an outstanding athlete who plays above the rim; his primary position
is small forward, but he can also play off-guard and power forward.

Quinn Harwood 6’9" 215 F Reston, Va.
Harwood began his high school career as a 6’2" point guard, and then grew seven inches.in two years. As a
senior at South Lakes H.S., he averaged 17 points, nine rebounds, and six assists per game, and was named All-State
and honorable mention McDonald’s All-American. Harwood has very good shooting and ball-handling skills for his size and could see time
at small forward, power forward, and center.

Mark McGuire 6'10" 235 C/F St. Louis, Mo. McGuire averaged 17 points and nine rebounds during his senior year at
Vianney H.S., and was named All-District and All-Metro in St. Louis. He runs the floor exceptionally well for a big
man and should back up Detlef Musch at center and see some time at power forward. McGuire came to Davidson
for the chance to become a Rhodes Scholar.

Frantisek Babka 6'5" 204 G/F Prague, Czechoslovakia Babka attended Charles University in Prague and started at point guard for Czechoslovakia’s
junior national team. His primary position is the point, but his excellent perimeter shooting makes him an option at the
off-guard position, and his size makes him a candidate for small forward.

The starter at power forward to open the season figures to be 6'8" senior J.D. Heuer, who started several games
late last season there. He has range to 20 feet but is perhaps more valuable as a solid rebounder and
setter of screens. Sophomore George Spain has been effective in the post early in the season and should play at
both the power forward and center positions. Quinn Harwood, a 6'9" freshman, has power forward size but possesses ball-handling skills
that allow him to play every position but point guard. Sophomore Tim Caldwell is much improved and is also an
option at forward.

For the fourth successive year, the Grand Teuton, 7'0" Detlef Musch, will start at center. After averaging 12.8 points and
6.4 rebounds per game last season, Musch improved over the summer in tryouts for the German Olympic team. He should
top the 1,000-point mark for his career sometime in December. Musch’s understudy in the pivot will be 6'10" freshman Mark
McGuire. McGuire has a pretty solid inside game and runs the floor and finishes on the break extremely well for
a center.

The seven-man freshman class gives the team a much-needed injection of athleticism, and, in response, McKillop will enact a faster-paced
game plan. The team will play aggressive half-court defense, and McKillop says that he wants to initiate the fast break
and shoot the open three-pointer at every opportunity.

The schedule, of course, provides some major obstacles. The ‘Cats begin with three non-Division I patsies, St. Joseph’s (Me.), Tennessee
Temple, and Lynchburg, but then will meet the mirror image: consecutive dates with Clemson, Wake Forest, and UNC-Charlotte. The 18-game
Southern Conference schedule is sure to be more rigorous than last year’s Big South slate, and a game with N.C.
State and another with UNCC come later. The Wildcats should be fairly competitive with the second tier of the conference
(the Citadel, VMI, Western Carolina, and Appalachian State) but seem to be a clear step below the conference elite (Georgia
Southern, UTC, and ETSU). So a high league finish seems unlikely. Without a doubt, though, this is McKillop’s most talented
team, and it figures to be much improved over last year’s. But it would take an improbably precocious year from
the freshmen for Davidson to emerge as a Southern Conference contender this time around.

Buy ONE - GET ONE FREE

Rainbow Deli, your home base for Fresh Fish and Steaks. Lunch, Dinner, and drink specials daily. Weekend live entertainment.

Wednesday: Open Mic
Friday & Saturday: Live Entertainment

10% OFF ENTIRE TICKET (excluding alcohol) - DINE IN ONLY — THREE CONVENIENT LOCATIONS

Daily Drink Specials
Thursday: Karaoke, BYO Mug $1.50 (up to 32 ounces!)
Friday: $1.50 Tooters

8301 Magnolia Estates Dr. Cornelius, NC (704) 896-0091

EXPIRES NOVEMBER 23, 1992
