THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

Summers Continued from page 6

Davidsonian: Some people believe that the Admissions Office accepts minorities to Davidson as tokens rather than as people. What do you think, and what would you do to combat this problem?

Summers: I think it’s an issue we need to examine. When you have someone coming from overseas to a place like Davidson, you need to have some sort of structured support. That support can’t just come from other international students, but from the entire student body. African American students are too much in the minority right now, and the SGA has really got to get into it and make some judgments. The support isn’t there right now, and that needs to change.

Davidsonian: Why has the SGA rolled over regarding minus grades and shortened exam schedules? What can you do to prevent this type of complacency from the student government?

Summers: I don’t know why the SGA hasn’t been involved in it. I can tell you that what really needs to happen is that the new SGA president and his staff down the line have got to take this thing very seriously. Whether that means ruffling the feathers of the administration and the trustees, I think that the student body is what counts here. If you get the students behind the SGA and you take something to the trustees, I guarantee you that the trustees will listen very closely. If you have one or two people working very hard, but without the support of the students, I don’t think you’ll get a lot accomplished.

Jessica Reinertsen

In running for the President of the Union, I, Jessica Reinertsen, hope to become not only a part but a leader in the organization to which each and every student of Davidson belongs. Whether you have gone to an Artist’s Series production or just rented a movie from the game room, you have participated in an activity designed for you by the students which make up the Union Board.

As a freshman, I was only peripherally aware of Union events and the amount of planning that went into them. Like most students, I let myself be satisfied with just walking through the Union before a class to get a Coke. Luckily, my work/study as a receptionist at the Union desk introduced me to the staff and the students which made the Union come alive. In the spring of my freshman year, I applied for a position on the Union Board and was privileged to be selected as Secretary for the Board. Though I did not have a committee of my own, I maintained communication between members of the Board and the faculty advisors, took minutes at all the Board meetings and acted as aide to the president. Also through my position, I was appointed to the Policy Committee which made amendments to the bylaws of the Union and created a new budget for the board each year. As a part of this committee, I passed the amendments and gave the money to start the movie rental service in the game room, purchase new speakers allowing better sound quality at concerts in the 900 Room and set up a $5,000 reserve fund for large concerts in Baker Sports Complex.

Also, I enjoyed serving on several committees and watching our programming become reality. Though I have not been on the Union Board this past year, I have maintained the high interest level in the Union that was sparked my freshman year. By having a chance to view Union programming as simply a Davidson student and not a Board member, I have come to greater appreciate all that the Union does for this campus. As president, I hope to bring my enthusiasm about the Union to all students. We all pay an activity fee, and we should all feel that the Union has something to offer us. Everyone should feel as if they are a part owner of the Union; they should be able to walk in, sit down and be themselves. If elected, I hope to begin a campus-wide calendar which would be distributed approximately each week to inform students of upcoming events in the Union and all other facets of Davidson life. Such a calendar would prevent students from missing out on the various opportunities Davidson has to offer. I started a Union calendar when I was secretary, but I think a new calendar should include other events to give Davidson students the whole picture of Davidson, not just one portion.

The Union maintains excitement because it has endless possibilities. As president, I hope to directly initiate programming such as a future Outdoor Reggae Festival and to choose and lead a Union Board under which the Union will excel. Please give me the chance to make the Union a part of your Davidson experience.

Davidsonian: What do you see as the Union’s place in the social life of the college?

Reinertsen: I don’t think it’s good to see the Union as an alternative to Patterson Court, because there are so many different things going on. When you walk through the building, you’re experiencing Union programming. I think that on this calendar I was talking about, we could list Patterson Court events there as well, so that students can see that they don’t conflict with Union events—you don’t have to choose one or the other.

Davidsonian: Would you give us a brief list of the leadership roles you’ve played on campus up to this point?

Reinertsen: I’ve been on the Union Board before, I was secretary when I was a freshman. I was an aide to the president, and I worked with the faculty advisors. I took minutes at all the meetings, and made sure that those who weren’t there were informed as to what was going on. The most important thing about that position was that I was on the Policy Committee, and that was really a leadership...Position. We did the entire budget, we edited the entire by-laws, and basically, we OKed what went to the board. I’ve also been the Historian for Warner Hall, and I’m a junior-at-large in Warner Hall.

Davidsonian: Why did you decide not to be a part of the Union Board this past year?

Reinertsen: When I was on the Board, I was so caught up in it, that I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do in the coming year. It was basically my own fault in that I let it pass me by.

See Ann Todd. I don’t want to waste time with jokes or flowery speech, so I will come right to the point and say, my name is Ann Todd and I want to be the next President of the Union Board. This decision is neither whimsical nor last minute; I have been seriously considering this position for several months. I have two strong reasons for running. Number one, I know the Union; I have been an active member of the Union Board since my sophomore year and a member of the Chamber Music, Artist Series, and Video committees since my freshman year. From my experience on the Board, I have learned what works and what does not. I know the policy and organization of the Union and would enter with the experience I feel is necessary to run an efficient and productive Union. Secondly, I am in touch with many different facets of the college and the town and as President I would hope to reach as many different groups as possible. Independents, Patterson Court Members, and those of us in between are all vital to the diverse community we are a part of. The Union Board must represent this diverse population and seek to provide programming for all. In selecting a Union Board I will work to ensure that the entire campus is represented. Diversity is a priority, and I hope to use this diversity in creating a solid board with the goal of “Everyone’s Union” in mind. The Union is not just an alternative to Patterson Court but a central point at which the entire campus may join. I have the drive, the commitment, and the know-how to make the Union the best it can be.

Davidsonian: You've been the chair of the Chamber Music Committee over the past year, and you’ve gotten a chance to see how the past president has run things. How would your presidency resemble and differ from her administration?

Todd: I’ve really enjoyed being on the Board this year, and it’s been a really good experience for me. The major problem, in my opinion, is that the Union is so large. Because it is so big, it is hard to get people to work at functions—everyone assumes that someone else is going to do it. It’s a good group of people, but I think everyone always assumed that there was going to be someone else. I would like to have a smaller Union Board. In that way, we would be more unified, and it would be easier to join together to get things done.

Davidsonian: To follow up, would you not allow co-chairs of committees?

Todd: Some of the larger committees need co-chairs, but not all. I know Chamber Music only needs one chair, and that’s true for a lot of different committees.

Davidsonian: We've asked several of the SGA candidates about the problems, racial et cetera, which have plagued our campus. How do you see the Union working with the SGA? The organizations have been pretty detached from one another this year.

Todd: As president, I would like to bring YSSC [Reach Out] into the Union a little bit more, and to do more things jointly. We have the manpower in the Union, and the money, and I think that we could do more joint programming. Because we are seen by everyone on the campus, we have a great way to reach out to many different people.

Beth Willard: I am Beth Willard and I want to be the next Union Board President. I hope after reading the next few paragraphs you will understand why. My freshman (spring)/sophomore (fall) year I served on the Union Board as the Historian and I cannot begin to express how much that Union experience meant to me. As part of my Historian duties I attended all events, took pictures, and kept a pictorial and verbal record of these events in a scrapbook. During this time, I had the opportunity to work with and observe all committees of the Union. Through this, I not only gained exposure to the Board, but I also co-planned a major event in the fall of ‘90—The Folk Festival. The process of planning the Folk Festival enabled me to work closely with a large number and wide variety of people including faculty, students, and members of the Davidson community. Also, as an active member of the Women’s Concerns Committee, I was able to participate in the Union in a capacity that differed from my Board duties. My involvement with the Union enlightened me to a part of campus life that I had not bothered to take advantage of earlier, and it left me with a need to stay a part of this life. For the past year, I have been abroad, and now I am back ready to pick up where I left off. The Union, as an entity, is very important to me and one I would like to keep being a part of. I have lots of energy I want to devote to the Union as well as a desire to be a part of all its happenings. I feel confident I can do a great job as Union President, and all I need now is your vote. My sophomore year, as I introduced freshpeople to the Union during orientation, I told them,

See "Elections" on page 10.