THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

Shi Continued from page 1

Greenville area. Shi will also be working with Benny Walker, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, one of his closest friends from his Furman days for whom he has tremendous respect, thereby creating a perfect work atmosphere. Furman’s break from relations with the Baptist Church during the search process also enticed Shi, for he sees this as a new era of exciting possibilities for the university. Furman has also been very flexible in their negotiations, allowing Shi to finish the academic year at Davidson as well as allowing his contract to stipulate Shi may teach as much as he desires.

Despite these seemingly ideal conditions, “it was with great ambivalence that we made this decision,” said Shi. Furman is justifiably excited about Shi’s future position. Dr. John E. Johns said, “We believe David Shi will be an excellent vice president for academic affairs at Furman. He has very unique qualifications as both a scholar and an administrator, and we feel he is a person who can provide real leadership for Furman’s academic program. Shi is young, creative, and energetic, and, as a Furman graduate, he is familiar with the university and its philosophies. We believe he can help lead Furman into the next century, and we are looking forward to having him join the administrative team.”

Commitment by Shi and his wife to a small liberal arts atmosphere, and the similarities between Davidson and Furman will make easier Shi’s transition from faculty to administration. Although Furman’s student body is twice as large as Davidson’s, Shi feels the quality of Furman’s top 1600 students matches the quality of Davidson’s students. Furman also became coeducational in 1976, four years after Davidson. Furman differs from Davidson in that they have never allowed drinking on campus. As a future administrator, Shi is excited that an alcohol policy will not be an on-campus distraction.

Shi will transform himself into a Furman administrator with the aid of an associate dean. Shi feels prepared after experiencing the basic relationship between the faculty and the administration at Davidson. He believes Furman and Davidson have the same genuine commitment to the liberal arts, small classes, and close student/faculty relationships. Furman will be experiencing extensive changes with its new financial and religious independence from the Baptist Church and a $24 million gift to ease this transition. Shi says he hopes to bring from his background at Davidson, “insights, policies, and programs to measure against what is done [at Furman].”

Davidson’s teacher of the year in 1982, Shi’s achievements during his Davidson career certainly warrant praise. His specialty is American intellectual and cultural history and he has written four books in sixteen years. His first book received a Pulitzer Prize nomination and he is racing to finish his fifth book, a five-year undertaking. After a 1991-1992 sabbatical, Shi is writing the challenging final chapter of his book with the objective of finishing by June. Shi looks forward to his administrative duties as a break from the self-imposed pressures of improving with each book. Ben Klein, acting Dean of Faculty, says that Shi “will leave a big hole in virtually every aspect of the institution.” Shi has provided leadership as an instrumental...Member of several faculty committees and as former chair of the history department, Klein says Shi’s scholarship is widely recognized and he leaves an irreplaceable position as a key member of the history department at Davidson. According to Klein, Shi “is one of the most respected members of the faculty as a scholar and as a friend.” The separation from Davidson will be very painful for the Shis, since they have established strong relationships here as well as raising their children in this community. The short distance of two hours separating Davidson and Greenville is a small consolation for Shi who feels his new duties will require him to return to Davidson at least once a year. This community should be honored to have experienced the Shi legacy and we can be sure his decision to move on was made difficult by his great affection for Davidson.

The Governor is Unveiled!
Photo by Casey Rogers
North Carolina Governor Jim Martin, a 1957 graduate and former professor at Davidson, addresses those gathered to witness the unveiling of his portrait in the Martin Chemistry Building. The portrait was created by artist Joseph Wallace King.

Andrew Continued from page 6
...entire house and was as proud of her home as a new homeowner might be... and even her “compact car” as she described it could not squelch her excitement. During our ten-day stay, we investigated over 150 cases of which we repaired over 85 homes and assisted over 40 others with food, water, clothing, and other items. More importantly, we gave the citizens of Morgan City and the surrounding areas of St. Mary’s Parish a renewed hope, a feeling that others do care and do want to help, a sense of dignity and courage during a difficult time. We lifted their spirits, made them laugh, and gave them a start to the “rebuilding” that must take place. By reaching out to an unsuspecting community, we provided other organizations with a starting place for future relief efforts, and set a standard of help for others to follow.

Apple Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40
For further information visit Computer Services Center
Contact Susie Abernethy at x2432

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. PowerBook is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a trademark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic Thesaurus, and CorrecText Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResuméWriter is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 configuration only.