Let me set the record straight about the article in last week’s September 21 issue of the Davidsonian. The article appeared under the name of Kent Brockman (the newscaster on “The Simpsons”), but I wrote it. I have often used pseudonyms in the same space in the past, but certainly not to hide behind. On the contrary, I used them because, as editor, I was forced to write a number of articles and didn’t want to have my name all over the section. My motivation was the same in this case; I would hope that the football team would allow that I was forthright in taking responsibility for the piece.

Complaints about the article centered on the headline (“Rhodes Kicks Grid ‘Cats Around Like an Old Ragbucket, 31-6”). In retrospect, I think that I blundered in printing the headline as it appeared, especially given the other headlines I put in the issue. The women’s soccer team, for example, twice lost badly that week, but the headline for that article had a more positive spin. Certainly, though, the headline was not an attempt to demean the efforts of the football team. All that I was really trying to do was to avoid a boring, typical headline.

The opening sentence of the article (which described the loss to Rhodes as a second straight “convincing loss”) may have been a bit unfair, in that the team’s loss the week before to Sewanee, though a 37-20 final, was close into the fourth quarter. But I stand by the body of the write-up. I wrote that “Rhodes’ domination of the game was near total”; I don’t consider that to be, nor was it intended as, a cheap shot at the team. The statistics of the game, after all, bear out that statement. The football team (and everyone else, for that matter) has every right to expect fair and even-handed coverage in the Davidsonian, but no right to expect that staff writers will ignore the facts of a game in order to depict Davidson teams in a more positive light.

The members of the football team who approached me about the story articulated their fear that I was simply trying to put down the team because it was losing. They remembered a time, during the program’s transition from Division I-AA to Division III, when relations between the football team and the rest of the campus were adversarial. Let me reiterate that it was in no way my intention to degrade the team’s efforts. I remember that time, too, and it’s nothing we need to relive. Coach Fagg is only to be commended for bringing the team and the rest of the students back together.

One of the problems with my write-up is that I was writing about a game I did not see. As I have done in the past, I wrote my account of the Rhodes game by the summary of the game in the Charlotte Observer. I have always felt a bit uneasy doing so, but keeping the sports section relatively current seemed a priority. It would be best if someone in attendance at road football games could write the articles about them. Here, then, is my invitation to anyone connected with the team to do just that.

'Cats Overwhelmed by "Bigger" Emory & Henry Squad
By Chris Hood

Looking at Davidson’s 1992 football schedule, the four September contests are undoubtedly the cornerstone of the slate. Guilford, the University of the South, Rhodes, and Emory & Henry were a combined 29-7-2 in 1991. The ‘Cats found once again how strong their early-season opponents are this Saturday in front of a Parents’ Weekend crowd of 2,447. Emory & Henry outplayed the ‘Cats from the beginning in drubbing the home team 36-7 and dropping Davidson to 1-3.

“They were a lot bigger than we were, and they were very well-coached,” wide receiver John Bodkin said, who had Davidson’s lone touchdown of the afternoon, said of the Wasps. E&H, now 4-0, was eighteenth in the nation in this week’s USA Today Division III poll. Given the Wasps’ amazing offensive success this season, Davidson’s performance does not appear as discouraging. Going into the match at Davidson, E&H was averaging 53 points per game, and its average margin of victory was a whopping 42 points.

E&H opened the scoring midway through the first quarter when Cary Perkins lofted an 18-yard touchdown pass to John Ely. Five minutes later, Charles Cole punched through the Davidson line for a three-yard score. Todd Woodall caught Perkins’ second touchdown pass of the game, a 19-yard strike which put the Wasps up 21-0. After a wild sequence in which Davidson quarterback Richard Howell was intercepted twice and the Wasps fumbled once and were picked off once in just three plays, the visitors’ defense held the ‘Cats to set up...Their fourth score of the half. Todd Lee carried the ball on five of seven plays and scored from a yard out with 3:17 left in the half; Jay Garnett’s extra point was blocked by Charles Staples, and E&H enjoyed a 27-0 lead at the half. The Wasps took advantage of the opening drive of the second half, advancing 42 yards in 10 plays and earning three points on a 41-yard field goal by Garnett. Their final score of the afternoon came with 11:27 remaining in the contest; Chad Krantz pounded into Davidson’s defensive line three straight times before scoring from a yard out. Chris Leak blocked the extra point, but the Wasps were up 36-0 by this point. With time running out in the final stanza, the ‘Cats managed one solid drive for the home crowd. Howell engineered a 73-yard drive which featured a 20-yard completion to Isaac Bailey and a 14-yard scramble by the quarterback, after which he was illegally hit out of bounds. As the clock closed inside of three-and-a-half minutes, Howell spotted Bodkin in the left corner of the end zone 29 yards away; Drew Fassett’s extra point banked off the new scoreboard, and the ‘Cats had cut the margin to 36-7. The Wasps dominated the ‘Cats in nearly every category imaginable. They held the ball for 18 more minutes, 38:54-21:06, tripled Davidson in first downs, 22-7, and gained 479 yards of total offense to Davidson’s 145. E&H quarterback Perkins, who was given plenty of time by his offensive line, picked apart the ‘Cat secondary on 12 of 21 passing for 242 yards and a pair of touchdowns. Meanwhile, Davidson signal-callers were under constant pressure; Howell completed eight of 24 attempts for 121 yards and the touchdown while being sacked five times and intercepted once. Kevin Holzworth was zero for eight with two interceptions and a sack. There is solace in the fact that the most difficult portion of the schedule is complete. Rhodes and E&H are unquestionably two of the strongest squads in the region. “We can’t give up now,” Bodkin explained. “We have the powerhouses behind us, and now we’re looking forward to the rest of our schedule.” Davidson is off this weekend, and Homecoming against Washington and Lee, whom the ‘Cats topped 16-14 last season, is two weeks away.

Soccer America Top 20 (9/22):
1. Virginia
2. UCLA
3. Duke
4. Southern Methodist
5. South Carolina
6. Clemson
7. St. Louis
8. James Madison
9. Indiana
10. George Mason
11. Portland
12. N.C. State
13. Wake Forest
14. Penn State
15. San Francisco
16. DAVIDSON
17. UNLV
18. Evansville
19. Washington
20. Brown

Hockey Continued from page 12:
The Wildcats then changed their game plan from small passes to big hits in order to slow the Rams down even more. Instead of trying to tie the game, VCU played the last 14 minutes as if they had already lost the game. During that time, the Wildcats had six offensive corners, the Rams just one. The day after the win over VCU, Davidson headed to Boone to face Appalachian State. The 1-0 win over the Mountaineers was also momentous for the ‘Cats because it marked their first win ever on an artificial turf field. This was the first turf game for the Wildcats, and it took them the entire first half to get used to the pace of the ball. As was the case in the VCU game, the first half produced no goals for either team. Freshman Holly Kledis broke the scoring drought with her first collegiate goal with her family and friends in attendance. Kledis said, “I received the ball from Jill {Bennett} and I was able to flick it past the goalie to the right side of the cage. Then everybody came running towards me, I couldn’t believe it. I was really psyched.” Davidson’s shutout of the Mountaineers was the team’s third in a row. “I was pleased with the way the team pulled themselves together in the second half after a sluggish first half,” said coach Pryor. “A key factor to our success is the strong leadership from the senior and junior classes.” The Wildcats traveled to Athens, Ohio over Parents’ Weekend to face Ohio University, Kent State, and Central Michigan. Davidson downed Ohio University 2-1 on Friday. The team’s next home game is Saturday, October 3 at 1:00 p.m. against University of Richmond.

ISAA Soccer Poll:
1. Virginia
2. UCLA
3. Duke
4. Southern Methodist
5. South Carolina
6. James Madison
7. St. Louis
8. Bowling Green
9. Clemson
10. Washington
11. St. John
12. UNLV
13. Penn State
14. Brown
15. Evansville
16. George Mason
17. Indiana
18. Illinois State
19. Adelphi
20. DAVIDSON
21. Princeton
22. San Diego
23. Boston U.
24. SIU-Edwardsville
25. Rutgers

Drivers and Action ation:
$8.00 - $12.00 per hour
Inside Benefits:
Part Time Flexible Hours
Free Pizza
Call Us! 896-8007
Shops On The Green