THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor

KEVIN MILLER - News Editor
SUSAN SHEFFIELD - Associate News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly”

DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

Thanks

The editorial board of The Davidsonian would like to take the opportunity to thank the past editors, David Thompson and
David Smyth, for their untiring work on the paper over the past year. The work of Thompson and Smyth carried
the newspaper to the next level following the restructuring of the paper two years ago. The efforts of the newspaper
editorship largely go unnoticed by a majority of the student body and Thompson and Smyth deserve campus acknowledgment of their
service to the school this year. Through their leadership and diligence, The Davidsonian has become one hell of a college
newspaper. We hope that we can carry on that tradition.

Campus Tensions

In a time when our campus has been consumed by strife and tension, an important point was made at this
weekend’s Honor Council trial. One of the students involved believed that a lot of the anxieties on campus could have
been avoided if students had merely talked things out one on one and handled each incident individually. This is an
important point. Much of the difficulties we presently experience are the result of misconceptions among members of this community. Handling
things individually would have avoided a great deal of the problems addressed in the community. How can this be accomplished?
Working and talking out concerns between each other is one way. The Davidsonian hopes to serve as a vehicle for
easing the specific incidents of discord on campus. We hope that more members of the community will use us as
a sounding board for their ideas and concerns. Open discussions of our communal problems will be the most effective means
of solving them, instead of allowing individual occurrences to explode into general feelings of disharmony by way of our small
campus rumor mill. We therefore believe that each problem should be dealt with individually and not be grouped together as
a universal campus attitude. By treating problems in this way, it is highly possible that these pervasive negative feelings will
begin to disappear.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

NAME ONE JOB THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION HAS SAVED

Letters

Edmondson Discusses Minus Grades

Editor's Note: The following letter is a revision of a previous “Letter to the Editor” written by Earl Edmondson who
penned the original before reading last week's articles regarding the minus grades. The following takes into consideration what was written
and responds and amends.

To the Editor,

Through the grapevine, I understand that some students are bothered by the grading scale that I supplied in response to
a questionnaire from the SGA’s subcommittee on minus grades, a scale that has “90-92” as “A-”, “87-89” as “B+”, and
so on. The perturbed students seem to think that people like me should allow a lower score (87? 88?) to
earn an “A-”. I would like to comment at some length in hopes of contributing to a clearer understanding of
the grading process and of the new grading system.

In my approach to grading, numbers are calculating tools, not determinants. That is; I...(and probably many other faculty members not
in natural sciences and math, for example) first decide on a letter evaluation (A? A-? B+?) and then assign a
number grade to a paper or test essay to reflect that qualitative reading (e.g., “A-” = 91; “B+” = 88).
Accordingly, it makes no difference whether the lowest number for an “A-” is 90 or 87. A semester average of
89 produces a submitted grade of “B+” only because the preponderance of qualitative evaluations throughout the semester yield that result.
My experience this past fall suggests that two of the expectations associated with the new system apply: some students received
“A-” (or “B-”) instead of “B+” (or “C+”), and some received “B+” (or “C+”) instead of “A-” (or “B-”). But
the actual GPA of my grades for a large class this time around is amazingly close to that of my
grades that I submitted.

See "Grades" on page 9

Stackhouse Recounts Experience

I chose not to write about my specific experiences in Nepal and India on the Tibetan Studies Program due to
some advice I received from a Tibetan student when I was writing a research paper. He told me, "You should
write to help other people. If that is your goal, it will be good.” I hope this essay will motivate
you to help others, whether they are Tibetans or some other mistreated or unfortunate group of people.

I felt a tinge of guilt as I saw the tear well up in Sonam’s eye. I felt personally responsible
for his present sadness, although the true cause of it had nothing to do with me. Sonam, a twenty-two-year-old monk
from Tibet, had been introduced to me about two weeks earlier. Despite the short time, Sonam and I had become
very close friends as we spent time studying in the library of the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies in
Sarnath, India. The day after I met Sonam he told me how badly he wanted to return to Tibet to
see his parents, with whom he had not had any contact since he was ten years old. (Try, if you
can, to imagine not even hearing from your parents for the last twelve years.) I asked him how he escaped
from Chinese-occupied Tibet. He told me that his parents brought him out to India and then returned to Tibet without
him, leaving him at the Tibetan Children’s Village. The TCV is a very efficient and successful school system which was
started by His Holiness the Dalai Lama when he was forced into exile by the Communist Chinese forces in 1959.
He continued to explain that shortly after his parents returned to Tibet, his father fell ill and died. This news
was the last he ever received from or about his family in Tibet.

Today, however, we were much closer than that first day after we met. As we sat talking at a small
tea shop across from the school, the subject of China’s heinous treatment of Tibetans came up again. Sonam told me
that he had just written an article about the Chinese policies in Tibet. As the story unfolded, it turned out
that the “disease” from which his father died was a direct result of the harsh conditions imposed by the Chinese
authorities.

See "Tibet" on page 9

Alumni Respond to Tensions

To the Davidson Community:

The Board of Directors of the Davidson College Alumni Association has recently become aware of concerns on campus about the
presence of insensitivity, disrespect, and even hostility within the student body. We consider these concerns to be very serious and
hope that all members of the Davidson community will contribute to greater mutual respect and understanding.

We are sympathetic to the suffering of certain students on our campus. The Alumni Association welcomes and encourages the participation
of all Davidson alumni, parents, and friends in its activities. The board of directors itself seeks in its composition and
activities to reflect and to support the diversity of our alumni. We applaud and support efforts of the Davidson community
to make the campus a place where all feel dignified and respected.

Sincerely,
The Board of Directors
The Davidson College Alumni Association
