16. THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

Davidsonian Sports

Trustees Accept Group's Recommendations

By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson College Board of Trustees voted Thursday to accept the recommendations of the Presidential Working Group on Athletics. Davidson
President John Kuykendall created the Working Group in the spring of last year in order to help determine the best
course for the future of athletics at Davidson.

The Working Group consists of Vice President for Institutional Advancement Osborne Bethea, Jr., students Laura Cunningham, Sterling Freeman, and Bryson
Moore, Director of Athletics Terry Holland, professors Thomas Kazee, Zoran Kuzmanovich, and Ralph Levering, Faculty Representative to the NCAA J.B.
Stroud, Interim Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Homer Sutton, Vice President for Business and Finance Robert Sutton, Dean of
Students Will Terry, and Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty Robert Williams.

In April of 1991, the group began meeting. They utilized information from ten Division I and ten Division III schools,
detailed information on Davidson’s athletic program and surveys of students and student-athletes, and issued their report in March. Their recommendations
are as follows:

1. Current Davidson academic standards for athletes should be maintained, regardless of the level at which the College chooses to
compete or the teams it chooses to sponsor.
2. The share of the College budget allocated to athletics is substantial and should not be increased.
3. The College should fund athletic scholarships equivalent to the number now provided for in the Educational and General Budget.
Any additional scholarships should be funded entirely from Wildcat Club contributions.
4. The distribution of athletics scholarships should be determined by the Director of Athletics.
5. Davidson’s athletics teams must be competitive while maintaining academic standards and cost efficiency.
6. Beginning in the fall of the 1994-95 academic year, the Working Group on Athletics should report biennially to the
President on the status of the College athletics program, with specific reference to the academic, fiscal, and competitive standards detailed
in these recommendations.
7. Upon receipt of each biennial report, the President should ascertain whether our current athletics program is meeting the standards
stated above. If it is not, he or she should make changes, including but not limited to changes in divisional
affiliation, conference affiliation, and program support, which would bring the program into congruence with these principles.
8. The College should adopt a new Statement on Athletics Policy.

The really critical segment of the Working Group’s Report is that pertaining to college funding for athletics (#2). Presently, athletics
comprises 9.6% of the College budget. The Working Group’s recommendation legislates that the percentage be lowered to 9.4% in 1992-93
and again to 9.2% in 1993-94. In addition, it mandates that any overrun be subtracted from the next year’s budget.
Right now, that makes the Athletic Department the only department of the college with a financial penalty for overspending the
budget.

According to Athletic Director Terry Holland, even the figure

See "Working Group" on page 15

Photo by Chris Rogers

Senior Craig Leonard lines up a putt during the District III Golf Tournament last week at River Run and The
Peninsula golf courses. Leonard and sophomore Will McDaniel led the team with scores of 243 and 237 respectively.

Baseball Takes Two of Three From UNCC

By Bobby Bowers

The Davidson Wildcat baseball team suffered some tough losses in the past three weeks against talented conference and non-conference teams.
Tuesday, April 7 the ‘Cats travelled to Deacon Stadium to tackle Wake Forest. Randy Spaw went the distance, allowingOnly three
runs but came up short as Davidson was defeated 3-2. Joe Azzolino had a home run. Two days later, Mills
Ariail (1-1) got the loss against Western Carolina. Brett Boretti had a big day with 3 hits, including a double
and a home run. Over the weekend, Davidson visited conference foe Winthrop, who swept the Wildcats in a doubleheader Saturday,
4-3 and 6-5. Davidson rebounded on Sunday behind the pitching and hitting of Azzolino, who picked up the win and
the game-winning RBI in the 7-6 extra-inning victory. Four other Wildcats also had home runs against Winthrop.

Tuesday, April 14, the Diamond 'Cats were downed by Appalachian State, 11-2, as Derek Twombly fell to 3-4. Centerfielder Jazz
Freitas injured his hamstring, putting him on the disabled list for two games. On Thursday, the Wildcat bats never came
alive as the Demon Deacons topped Davidson at Wildcat Park.

Late last week, the Wildcats took two games of a three-game series with UNCC. Thursday at Wildcat Park, Davidson hung
on for an 8-6 win using the long ball as a catalyst. Randy Spaw went eight and two-thirds innings to
get the win, and Joe Azzolino struck out the last batter in the ninth to get the save. Azzolino, Mac
Chapman, Rick Bender, and Andy Paul hit home runs for Davidson. Friday night at UNCC, the 'Cats surrendered a 9-2
lead and lost 13-11 despite turning a triple play. Mark Snyder took the loss. Saturday night at Knight’s Castle in
Fort Mill, S.C., Davidson took the rubber match. Andy Paul hurled a five-hit shutout to move to 9-3, and Brett
Boretti and Azzolino went yard in the 3-0 win.

The Wildcats’ record stands at See "Baseball" on page 15.

Women's Tennis Runner-up in Big South Tournament
By Chris Hood

For head coach Caroline Price, the Big South women’s tennis championships, held April 16-18 at Davidson, represented a final exam
after a grueling year of study. “We had learned our lessons, fine-tuned them, and improved for 179 days,” she explained,
“and now it was time for our final exam, a three-day run for the roses.”

Riding the confidence of a four-match winning streak and a 16-5 regular season record, Price and assistant coach Bryce Plott’s
squad had been preparing for a conquest at the Covington courts. Though they were unable to repeat as champions in
their final year in the Big South, the 'Cats battled from behind to give Campbell a hearty struggle before falling
73-70 to the Camels. Davidson finished 13 points ahead of third-place finishers Radford and Winthrop.

On Thursday, the 'Cats played as expected, capturing all six singles and three doubles matches. Davidson found itself tied with
Campbell, which had also swept through the first day of play. Friday’s action proved to be the difference in the
'Cats quest to repeat as conference champions. Winthrop’s Carolina Freitas topped Cyndi Hess 7-6, 6-2 in No. 1 singles, and
Coastal Carolina’s Tito Cabrales bested Natasha Ruth 6-2, 4-6, 6-2 in No. 3 singles. In both matches, Davidson’s netters were
seeded second while their opponents were ranked third. “Freitas and Cabrales raised their level of play on Friday; as a
result, we stumbled ever so slightly,” Price said of the semi-final round.

Heading into Saturday’s championship round, Davidson found itself six points behind Campbell. In order to surpass the Camels, the 'Cats
knew they would have to nail down all nine matches and receive help from some lower seeds, such as Freitas
and Cabrales. In an outstanding display of determination and control, the 'Cats took each of their matches. Perhaps the signature
match of the day was Kimberly Nance’s 2-6, 7-5, 6-4 victory over Campbell’s Diana. See "Tennis" on page 15.
