THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor
SEAN LIND - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Alcohol Policy Cartoonist

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager

What Do You Think?

Several organizations on campus have joined together to put up a substantial amount of money to bring controversial filmmaker Spike
Lee to the Davidson campus. His visit to Davidson is intended to help the school as it continues to correct
and move beyond the tension and divisiveness which characterized last year. We are certain that there are conflicting opinions as
to whether Spike’s visit will aid this effort. The Davidsonian would like to ask the entire college community how they
feel about this speaker and how they think he will affect the college as a whole.

As we began to think about an editorial concerning his visit, the editorial board quickly realized the complexity of his
character, and the necessity to carefully study his stances on many issues before drawing conclusions. As a result, we have
decided to do our homework and research exactly what he has done and said in the past. Before reaching a
decision as to the appropriateness of the College hiring Lee to speak, we suggest you do the same. Just the
simple fact that he is coming should open up debate and provoke discussion around campus. The Davidsonian would like to
give students the chance to voice these opinions before he comes and not after the fact. We will publish some
of these ideas about Spike Lee in next week’s issue. It is our hope that his visit, and the inevitable
controversy it will bring, will be ventilated through the pages of this newspaper, and that the result will be a
more aware and enlightened Davidson community.

Problem Beginning to be Solved

Things are actually happening down at Carleton Pritchard’s Auxiliary Services kingdom in the Commons. The general consensus around campus has
been that the new ‘Bonus Bucks’ program has probably only generated surplus money for the college and has left the
students relegated to eating almost every meal at the Commons. But, Pritchard and the S.G.A.’s Auxiliary Services committee are now
beginning to work to find ways to meet students’ needs. Hopefully, by this time next year the so-called “Bonus Bucks”
program will be history or at the very least will have been drastically modified.

Steve Summers is the head of the S.G.A.’s Auxiliary Services Committee and he is open to any and all suggestions
as to what course the college should take in designing a meal plan system that best suits students’ needs. Such
ideas range from adopting a new 5, 7, or 19 meal plan program with up to $200 in bonus money,
to completely overhauling the entire meal plan system. Basically, anything is possible. Students voiced their complaints at coming back to
find this new ‘Bonus Bucks’ system thrown into their face without any student consent and limited student input, and something
is being done. The student body now needs to contribute ideas and opinions as to what direction Auxiliary Services should
take, so we won’t come back again to find another program that’s not suited to our needs. So, call Steve
Summers or Carleton Pritchard and tell them what should be done because the future of Davidson dining actually does rest
in our hands.

Problem Somewhat Solved

Newsflash: Student complaints result in a change in the Union Cafe’s hours of operation. The Cafe will now remain open
until midnight on Wednesdays and Thursdays to provide refreshment for conscientious students who are toiling up the hill. We compelled
them to change it this much (up from a closing time of eleven for the first few weeks) so us
college kids should also tell Mr. Pritchard how they feel about this compromise. Why shouldn’t the Cafe remain open until
one in the morning on these days? It should. Tell the powers-that-be this and maybe we can get this relatively
minor adjustment changed once again to what we want and not what best fits Pritchard’s scheduling and budget.

ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager

Letters

Ariail Questions Voting Process

To the Editor:

I am extremely displeased with the handling of Homecoming elections this past Friday, October 2. I feel that the basis
behind the nomination of the Independent representative was unofficial. The ballot was done in haste in order not to jeopardize
the day allotted for the elections.to be held and therefore the results of Friday, October 2 should be reconsidered. According
to David Wright, President of the Patterson Court Council, the day for Homecoming elections was decided weeks ago in order
to give the Patterson Court houses time to enter their representative for the Homecoming Court. The Independents of Davidson College
are not a house on the Court and in the course of events leading to the election were not gathered
to vote on their representative for Homecoming. Granted that the Independent Senators on the SGA, who were responsible for submitting
an officially elected representative, should have been more efficient in providing an opportunity for Independents to vote and the Patterson
Court Council should not have to delay an election in order to wait for an official Independent vote, the fact
remains that the submission of the Independent representative that was present on the ballot is unofficial. Independents as a group
on campus did not vote on who was to represent them; three Independent Senators, in their rush to submit a
representative, chose their own pick from a list of three names. Perhaps these SGA Senators should follow the election advice
of their own President Anthony Foxx from the Davidsonian on September 21, 1992 when he said, “In the future, [the
SGA] will concentrate more on accuracy and less on getting the job done quickly.”

See "Allison" on Page 8

Postmaster Rescinds on Campus Post Office

To the Editor:

The proposal to provide an on-campus postal facility for Davidson College students has been rescinded. The Davidson Post Office will
continue to provide post office boxes and retail services to the students. We appreciate the response we received on the
student survey cards. I was surprised to find that more students responded to the customer surveys than residents or rural
route customers. This leads me to believe that students are very enthusiastic and interested in what is happening in the
community. Now that it is decided that the college and post office together are essential to the health of the
community, I have decided to form a Davidson College Student Postal Customer Council. This council will consist of approximately 12
members, students, faculty, and myself. Our goal is to brainstorm for ideas and activities that will enhance the relationship between
the students, post office, and the community. We will meet about six times during the school term. Meetings will not
interfere with classes and will be held in a social atmosphere. All interested students or faculty members should contact the
Postmaster by note or telephone (892-5141) by October 31, 1992. I look forward to lots of innovative ideas and fun
projects.

Elaine W. Conner
Postmaster

Susan Hooks Pleads for Help With Animals

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor,

By now, most of us have seen pictures of the devastation that Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki have left. What we
haven’t seen—or heard about—is the plight of pets left homeless from the storms. According to humane workers, all of whom
are volunteers, nearly 160,000 pets who had homes the night the storms hit have died or are dying of starvation
and dehydration. Many of these animals were lost in the storm, and, with all their scent and sight markers gone,
can no longer find their way to what was once their homes. The animal shelters in the areas were destroyed,
leaving hundreds of other animals to run loose. The zoo in Miami was hit hard; hundreds of animals who have
known no other life than to be fed and cared for are now on their own. Carcasses of dead animals
line certain streets in the area; only a few people have had the time and compassion to bury them. According
to the American Kennel Club’s Director of Communications, federal law prohibits animals of any kind in the tent cities. Moreover,
not one single penny of any relief money, from the government, Red Cross, or other organizations, can,

See "Hooks" on Page 7
