Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

Alpha Phi Alpha Set to Open Davidson to Get First Traditionally African-American Fraternity

By Sean Lind

On Monday, October 5, representatives from Davidson met with spokesmen from the Alpha Phi Alpha national organization to lay the groundwork for the establishment of the Davidson Sigma Tau chapter of the fraternity. This past June, Alpha Phi Alpha formally accepted Davidson’s bid to have a chapter of the fraternity. Because the decision by the National was made during the summer, some Davidson students were not aware of the development. This has caused a slight delay in the organization and opening of the fraternity. As yet, there is no specific date for the opening of A Phi A, although it should begin activities sometime in January.

Alpha Phi Alpha, the nation’s oldest traditionally Afro-American fraternity, was founded December 4, 1906 at Cornell University. The original organization was begun in 1905 as a literary society and A Phi A has strived to maintain this original focus. Alpha Phi Alpha looks to promote scholarship, service, and culture. Unlike other national fraternities on campus, A Phi A has a GPA requirement of 2.5. This is considerably higher than the college’s mandated 2.0. Alpha Phi Alpha is a lifetime organization. They have graduate chapters and a networking system to help members personally and socially throughout their lives.

“The Origin of Alpha Phi Alpha” describes the fraternity’s difficult beginning: “This was not an easy task for the group of young men who were endeavoring to follow the vision of a permanent fraternal organization. The dream seemed so easy, but the task was more difficult. They were quite unacquainted with the organization and procedure of college fraternities, for not one of them had the privilege of membership in a similar organization.”

The students at Davidson faced a similar situation. The tedious process of getting the fraternity on campus took nearly four years. Before they could apply to the National A Phi A chapter, students had to receive college approval. They had to petition and see "Alpha" on page 4.

Debate Arises Over Baker Hours Part of New Alcohol Policy Yet to be Implemented

By Tom Price

Curt Cassidy, a sophomore SGA representative, has asked that the Athletics Council subcommittee examine the possibility of expanding the operating hours of Baker Sports Complex. Cassidy created a proposal which he presented at a SGA meeting on Tuesday, September 29. In the proposal, Cassidy refers to the new Davidson alcohol policy which made specific references to expanding the hours of campus social outlets.

On Page 1 of the “Introduction to the Alcohol Policy,” the document reads, “Baker Sports Complex should remain open (including the equipment room) from 7 a.m. until 12 midnight seven days a week. There should be provisions for planned activities at the sports complex on a regular basis as well as spontaneous activities.” The Alcohol Policy states that the new hours should be implemented “to encourage a campus climate which does not tolerate alcohol abuse” and “to change the social expectations of the campus and develop a more creative, healthy and social environment.”

Despite these recommendations, Baker Sports Complex currently closes at six o’clock on Fridays and eleven o’clock every other night. The equipment room currently closes every night at six o’clock. The Athletics Council, which is co-chaired by Elizabeth McLaughlin and Matt Dormer, has discussed Cassidy’s proposal during their last two meetings and will continue to discuss it in the future. McLaughlin said that the Council has recommended expanding the hours to 10 o’clock on Fridays on a trial basis.

Greg Fisher, a member of the Council, said that they had discussed the issue with two members of the athletic department, Pat Millen and John Beyer. Millen and Beyer cited two problems with expanding hours: the question of whether students would use the facility more and theNeed for additional funding to hire workers. See "Baker" on page 5.

Conference on Post-Cold War World to be Held in November
John Spratt and Graham Allison Among Featured Speakers
By Tom Koonce

The Dean Rusk Program in International Studies will host a three-day conference from November 8-10 entitled: America’s Place in the New International Order, A Conference on the Post-Cold War World. The three-day session will include several speakers and two panel discussions. The conference is part of an annual series of conventions funded by a $250,000 grant from Nationsbank. This is the fourth conference in that series.

The former U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union from 1987-1991, Jack F. Matlock, Jr., will deliver the opening address on Sunday, November 8. Matlock was the last U.S. ambassador to the former U.S.S.R. He is currently a Senior Research Fellow at the Harriman Institute, Columbia University. The Reverend Ernest Campbell, a preacher, teacher, writer, and former Senior Minister at The Riverside Church in New York City, will present the sermon at DCPC that morning.

John M. Spratt, Jr., U.S. Congressman from South Carolina and 1964 Davidson graduate, is the keynote speaker and will deliver his address on Monday, November 9. Spratt has been deeply involved in questions about the U.S. global role in the post-Cold War era as a member of the Budget Committee and Armed Services Committee in the House.

The other principal speaker is Graham Allison, the Douglas Dillon Professor of Government and SDI Director at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. Allison attended Davidson for two years, then graduated and received his Ph.D. from Harvard. He has also served as Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense.

See "Rusk" on page 4.

Photo By Casey Rogers

Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Speaks at Davidson
Sergei Lavrov Talks on Russian Foreign Policy in the Modern World
By Robin Pepper

Sergei V. Lavrov, the deputy foreign minister of the Russian Federation, spoke in the Gallery of Chambers on Tuesday, October 6. Sponsored by Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program in International Relations, the topic of his speech was “Russian Foreign Policy in the Modern World.”

The Russian Foreign Minister spoke candidly about the current status of his country. He is encouraged by the progress of reforms in his country but realizes that the events there do not constitute a “total victory for democracy.” Lavrov stressed Russia’s desire to become a “normal country and protect our national interest.” Security, territorial integrity, economic stability, and humanitarian rights were among the priorities he listed for the newly democratic society in Russia.

One of the major difficulties currently facing Russia, Lavrov said, is the reemergence of nationalism. He explained that during the Cold War the borders separating the various republics were merely administrative. Now, Lavrov said, the new state borders have become real national borders. This transition has led to the reemergence of nationalistic feelings which had been previously “frozen” in the old U.S.S.R. Lavrov feels that the Confederation will be strengthened by the protection of human rights of all the nationalities living within it.

Lavrov believes the key to the successful growth of democracy within Russia is economic reform. While there is “no proven textbook way to move from a centralized economy to a market economy,” Lavrov believes that it is feasible with the support of other democratic countries. Russia hopes to use “expertise available in the outside world to expedite reform,” and new monetary and credit policies will bring inflation under control. “Russia will solve its problems,” Lavrov said, and become serious economic competitors once again.

Lavrov also stressed the importance of international cooperation in achieving these goals.

See "Lavrov" on page 4.

NEWS: New Software Program to End Drop/Add Hassles. See page 2.
Jewish Filmmaker Addresses Davidson. See page 3.

OPINIONS: The Humor of Tony Tunasit. See page 9.

INSIDE ARTS: Spike Lee Film Festival. See page 10.

SPORTS: Hankins Cracks Into National Top 10. See page 16.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036