12 ~#

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992

Davidsonian Sports

Baseball Takes Two of Three From Charleston

By Bobby Bowers

The Davidson baseball team (17-10, 5-2) went 2-4 over the past week of play against tough opponents. Sunday afternoon the ‘Cats fell to Radford 13-4 as Derek Twombly picked up the loss. Tim Kerns slugged his 10th homer of the season while Drew Fassett got his first of '92. On Tuesday, the Wildcats traveled to Raleigh to take on the nationally ranked N.C. State Wolfpack. Despite a strong performance on the mound by Randy Spaw, State defeated Davidson 5-1. Rick Bender got the sole RBI with a monstrous 430 ft. shot over the center field fence for his 5th homer of the season. More bad news for Coach Cooke and the Diamond ‘Cats was the loss of senior captain Mike Liebdzinski to a dislocated elbow after a collision at first base. He was leading the team in batting with a .402 average at the time of the injury, and will be out for 4-6 weeks.

On Wednesday a talented Kent State team handed Davidson its third straight loss, Brian Heil (1-1) got the loss. Center-fielder Jazz Freitas ripped the Golden Flashes’ pitching staff for 3 hits in the 11-2 defeat. Thursday evening the Wildcats left for a weekend series against the Charleston Southern Buccaneers. In Friday’s contest the ‘Cats thumped the Bucs 7-1 with a sparkling effort from Andy Paul (6-1), who threw a four-hit complete game. Offensively, Davidson was back to its usual self with 14 hits as a team. Brett Boretti, Bender & Kerns each had a big 3-hit day. In Game one of Saturday’s doubleheader Davidson won again 7-5. Jim Stanfill (6-1) pitched effectively and was relieved by Spaw, who recorded his 2nd save. Boretti and Bender stayed hot, as they both had three hits again. In game two, the Wildcats fell short of the sweep when Charleston Southern eked out a 9-8 win. An eight-run 4th inning gave Derek Twombly (3-3) the loss despite good offensive outings by Paul Brannan (2 hits) and Kerns (3 RBI).

This week Davidson will continue to face a tough field of opponents, as they travel to Georgia Tech for a night game on Tuesday and then face Wake Forest at 3:00 Wednesday afternoon at Wildcat Park. Saturday and Sunday will find the ‘Cats tangling with conference foe Coastal Carolina in a 3-game home stand.

Photos by Holt Hathaway

Mac Chapman (Left) and Tim Kerns (Right) make contact in the Wildcats’ 11-2 Loss at Kent State

Women's Tennis Closing in

Chase of Campbell Camels

By Bruce Balestier

Last year, after suffering a regular-season loss to Campbell, the Davidson women’s tennis team employed superior depth to beat the Camels and finish first at the Big South Conference Tournament. The signs this spring point to a possible repeat performance. Campbell earned a decisive 6-3 victory over the Wildcats February 8, but in recent weeks Davidson has come into its own. Entering this weekend’s matches against Louisville, UNCC and Furman, the ‘Cats had won six of their last seven matches, a hot streak that began with their spring break trip to Hilton Head, S.C.

The team began the slate of matches over spring break with a daunting challenge: 27th-ranked Notre Dame. The Fighting Irish have given scholarships for five years, and now carry eight scholarship players, while Davidson is just a year and a half into limited scholarship-giving, so the match juxtaposed programs at different stages of evolution. For Davidson coach Caroline Price, it was a benchmark for determining how her team compares with national-caliber competition.

Predictably, Notre Dame’s superior talent won out in a 9-0 victory, but several matches were quite competitive. Number one player Cyndi Hess played two close sets (6-4, 6-3) against an opponent ranked 7th in the nation. At number four, Tasha Ruth fell 7-6, 7-5. Nicole Wilcox, playing at number five, lost 6-2, 7-5 to Dick Vitale’s daughter Sherri. Price was duly impressed by her team’s effort. “We were very, very encouraged,” she said. “There were no blowouts.”

Davidson parlayed the momentum from the Notre Dame match into four convincing wins to conclude the week at Hilton Head. Using what Price called their “best performance in doubles” of the season, the Wildcats topped Old Dominion 6-3. The ‘Cats broke away from a 3-3 tie after singles by sweeping the three doubles matches. Wins over Duquesne (9-0), Georgetown (6-3) and Marshall (8-1) closed out the week.

A swing through South Carolina launched the conference season in earnest last weekend, with matches at Charleston Southern and Coastal Carolina of the Big South and a non-conference meeting with College of Charleston. Saturday against Charleston Southern, Davidson encountered, in Price’s words, “not very much resistance at all” in a 9-0 win. But a win that afternoon against College of Charleston, a longtime NAIA power and now a rising Division I program, was too much to ask. The dead-legged Wildcats lost 5-2. Wilcox moved her record to 25-5 with a three-set win in the match.

In Myrtle Beach Sunday morn-

See "Tennis" on page 11