Che Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992 NUMBER 15

Number of Applicants Remains High Despite Recession

By Tom Price

Dr. Homer Sutton, interim Dean of Admissions, says that the “College has not experienced any decline in the number of
applicants during the current recession.” Although regular decision applications are not due until the middle of February, he is expecting
the total number of applications to be 3% to 5% greater than last year’s record number of 2,258. Sutton believes
parents have realized the value of a Davidson education and have been “willing to make sacrifices” for their children.

165 students have already been accepted as early-decision candidates. Sutton says that this number represents approximately 40% of the class
of 1996. The admissions office says the class will consist of 410 students. The current Freshman class consists of approximately
400 students and Sutton said that the College will work to maintain an enrollment of approximately 1600 students in the
years to come.

When asked if the move to increase the student body has resulted in any compromise in the quality of the
student body, Sutton said, “There has been no compromise, absolutely not.” Dean Sutton stressed that Davidson is actively pursuing a
diverse student body. He says that the school is attempting to raise the percentage of black students above the current
level of 4%. Sutton added that the admissions office is hoping to work with black alumni and current black students
to help increase the number of black applicants.

See "Applications" on page 4

Newly Founded Connor House Receives 64 Freshmen From Self-Selection

By Tom Koonce

This year’s freshmen self-selection of fraternities and eating houses also ushered in formal recognition of a new women’s eating house
at Davidson. From the original committee who met to discuss the possibility of forming a new eating house to the
forum held to generate interest in this house, self-selection finally provided the necessary numbers that signaled Connor House was here
to stay.

Allison Cotton, co-President of Connor, said, “Self-selection went really well. We didn’t know what to expect and we were pleasantly
surprised.” The house already had 65 sophomores and juniors who had decided to leave their old eating house in order
to encourage this new house to become established. With 64 people, Connor House received the highest number of freshmen to
join an eating house. There are also eight people on the waiting list to join this house.

Connor House was named for Carol Connor Willingham, a 1977 graduate of Davidson and the first female trustee to be
elected by the alumni association. This spring the 129 women will only be social members at Connor and will continue
to eat in the Commons or at their former house. Connor is located in the old Warner Hall house. Cotton
said that the plan is to have members eat down at the house by this fall. For this semester members
will pay both social and board dues at their former house and only social dues at Connor. They will be
able to attend social events of both their former house and Connor. Connor House has already begun to co-sponsor parties
and will hold a few of its own social functions this spring. Cotton commented that the charter and by-laws for
the house would be drawn up this week. Connor is also on the agenda to be

See "Connor" on page 4

Photo by Holt Hathaway

Reverend Bernice King and College Chaplain Chuck Hasty following King's visit to Davidson January 12 for MLK Week

Reverend Bernice King Speaks During MLK Week

By Laura Cunningham

Sunday night, January 12th, members of the Davidson and larger Charlotte-Mecklenburg community packed Love Auditorium for the seventh annual worship
service in honor of Martin Luther King, Jr. His daughter, Rev. Bernice A. King, delivered the sermon. A mass gospel
choir, the Double Oaks Boys’ Choir from Charlotte, and Davidson senior Timisha Barnes provided inspirational music. A recipient of both
a Doctor of Law and Master of Divinity degree from Emory University in Atlanta, Rev. King works for the Fulton
County Juvenile Court.in Atlanta, and chairs a Student Conference on Kingian Nonviolence. She challenged the congregation to help make her
father’s dreams of nonviolence a reality. Urging a turn away from “rugged individualism,” Rev. King maintained that today’s society has
suppressed dreamers. Describing many contemporary social and economic problems in detail, she said, “when students stand, a nation stands... Our
nation needs our young en masse to help put our nation back on course.” When addressing social problems, Rev. King
vehemently criticized government’s priority on military spending, saying, “We are waging the wrong war.” According to her, a redistribution of
the defense budget would better solve social problems related to poverty.

See "King" on page 3

New Lecture Hall in Arts Center to Honor Semans
By Kevin Miller

Davidson President John Kuykendall recently announced that the college will honor Duke Endowment Chairman Mary Duke Biddle Trent Semans by
naming the main lecture hall in the new $7 million arts complex after her. Semans, who is known across the
state for her many years of dedication and support for the arts, played an integral part in the Endowment’s recent
$1 million award toward the building of the new Davidson facility. Construction is scheduled to begin on April 23.

The Semans Lecture Hall, a fifty-seat room with modern projection facilities for public presentations and art history classes, will present
the basic design for the many rooms of its type in the new 43,000 square foot building. Elizabeth H. Locke,
Ph.D., director of The Duke Endowment education division, said, “We were delighted to learn that Davidson will name the new
lecture hall in honor of our chairman. Mary Semans has given her distinctive leadership to so many organizations that serve
people in education, housing, human services, and health. But the arts hold a special place in her heart and in
her work. The Endowment is grateful to Davidson for honoring our beloved chairman in this way.”

Semans, great-niece of James Biddle Duke, founder of Duke Power Company, American Tobacco Company, and The Duke Endowment, has participated
prominently in the arts in this region since her graduation from Duke University. Along with all the help she gave
to the establishment of the first residential school for young artists in the country, the North Carolina School of the
Arts, she has served on virtually every arts committee in the state, six different college boards of trustees, and has
received honorary degrees from North Carolina Central University, UNC Chapel Hill, and Elon College.

The Duke Endowment remains one of the nation’s largest private foundations, with assets of over $1 billion. Over the years
it has made grants to non-profit hospitals and child care institutions in North and South Carolina, to rural United Methodist
Churches and retired ministers, and to Duke University, Johnson C. Smith University, and Davidson College.

$6000 Worth of Computer Equipment Heisted From Cunningham Arts Center
By Tom Koonce

Sometime between the hours of 4 pm Thursday, January 16 and 8 am Friday, January 17 an entire computer system
was removed from the Davidson College Arts Department. Taken from Cunningham were an Apple Macintosh IIci computer, Apple LaserWriter, color
monitor, keyboard, and various programs such as WordPerfect 2.0 and FoxBase Plus for the Macintosh. The total value of computer
equipment taken was estimated at around $6,822.90.

The computer equipment was stolen from the Slide Room of the Arts Department. There was no forced entry from the
outside of the building but the Slide Room appeared to be entered by force. There were pry marks on the
door to the room. Katrina Lehman, an administrative intern in the department, was the last person to see the room
secure on Thursday afternoon.

See "Arts” on page 3

INSIDE
NEWS: College-age smokers face new regulations at campuses around the country. See page 2.
ROTC cadets receive commissions. See page 3.
OPINIONS: Frampton displeased with new school policies. See page 6.
SPORTS: Basketball action update. See page 16.
DAVIDSON ARTS: Art Professor's exhibit to open in Chambers Gallery. See page 8.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
