8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

In Black and White: Deidra Montague and Scott Windham

When you see a couple of mixed race, or a white person with a group of black people, what do
you think? Do you ever change your manner (or topic) of conversation when a person of a different race approaches?
We have the feeling that black students and white students, while they agree on fundamental issues of racial equality, keep
to themselves on smaller but important issues. Few say out loud what really yanks their chain about black students or
white students; most keep quiet and let the tensions remain. Some white students don’t understand what upsets black students about
Davidson, and hesitate to ask because they don’t know how to open up discussion about the issue with a black
student. Witness also the message on a t-shirt: “It’s a black thing. You wouldn’t understand.” This message seems to them
to indicate blacks’ unwillingness to discuss the issue with whites, or whites’ innate inability to understand the issue. Some think
that many black students are difficult to get to know, that they are unapproachable and exclusive. Other whites feel they
are not welcome at the BSC, or feel excluded while at a BSC party or even walking around campus with
a group of black students.

Black students at Davidson, on the other hand, have (rather undeniably) a more difficult time with “the racial thing” than
do white students. Their perspective on this school may change from day to day. If you are white, try to
“picture it from the other side”: you are the only black person in a class of forty people; if a
question of race or minority issues comes up, everyone (including the professor) looks at you. Suddenly you have become The
Universal Black Person; you have all the Answers to all the Questions any non-black person ever wanted to ask. A
black person may also go out to dinner with a group of white friends, and never give a second thought
to race, until he or she gets a funny look from a stranger. We hate to burst anyone’s bubble, but
race is not always the prevailing issue on a black person’s mind. To quote Deidra, “I’m just one person trying
to survive and excel in an environment where not very many people look like me, talk like me, or think
like me.” She adds: “Of course, this is not to say I don’t think about race and how I fit
into the Davidson environment. I am extremely proud to be a black woman, and I don’t want anyone to forget
it. You may try to disrespect me, but I’m here to remind you that respect is demanded.”

Why this column? We want to dispel the myths and break down the barriers which strain race relations at Davidson.
While there is little overt racism here, there is a quagmire of nagging questions, feelings of resentment, hostility, exclusion, and
guilt, and a lack of communication and information. We want to examine the issues from the perspectives of ONE white
Davidson male and ONE black Davidson female. We hope that Davidson students, faculty, parents, and alumni will start to think
and to talk about race. It’s important to remember that we are two individuals. We express only our own opinions,
not the collective opinions of our two races. We are not trying to pretend we are “the average white Davidson
student” or “the average black Davidson student”; you may not assume that each black or white student has the same
opinions as we. Nor do we mean to exclude Asians, Latin Americans, or any of the other ethnic groups on
our campus; it’s merely that we are none of the above and therefore have no perspective. You may not always
like what we say, but we’re not trying to make anyone mad; we’re trying to explain what makes us mad
about blacks and whites at Davidson. So tune in next week. It’s all here, in black and white.

Davidson's Heart and Soul By Ralph Levering

For the past twenty-one years, I have had the good fortune to teach and do research at three fine liberal
arts colleges plus one up-and-coming university. All four institutions possess a strong core of faculty who are intellectually alive and
students who are capable and interested in learning. Yet Davidson, where I have taught since 1986, stands head and shoulders
above the others. At the risk of repeating what many already know, I want to offer an explanation of why
Davidson is truly special, so that all who areHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Here now can strive to maintain the college’s best traditions. Above all else, Davidson’s heart and soul centers on the
nurturing of personal relationships between inquiring students and dedicated teachers. These relationships often begin slowly, with tentative questions raised in
class or with routine visits to the professor's office to sort out possible topics for laboratory projects or term papers.
With some students, that is as far as the relationship develops. But with many others—indeed, more frequently than I have
seen at other schools—these fledgling relationships grow into friendships and intellectual partnerships. By the time these students graduate, we teachers
have watched them blossom both personally and intellectually, and we are genuinely sorry to see them leave.

Davidson’s heart and soul is also exemplified in the sense of common purpose—of working together for the best interests of
the college—that is so much more prevalent here than at many other schools. When I serve on committees at Davidson
that include students, faculty, and administrators, I repeatedly notice the underlying assumption of goodwill, the belief that our energies should
go toward resolving the issues before us rather than toward protecting narrowly conceived interests.

Third, Davidson’s heart and soul resides in the impressive support and interest of alumni/ae and friends of the college. Their
financial support is more substantial than at the other two private colleges where I have taught—a fact that makes a
huge difference in the life of the college. But equally important is their interest in the college: alumni/ae and friends
ask about current and retired professors, and about programs like the Ken Kelley Program in Historical Studies that mean so
much to departments and to majors.

There are, of course, potential threats to Davidson’s heart and soul. Some professors may be tempted to put a desire
to be nationally prominent scholars ahead of two time-consuming tasks: improving their courses and nurturing relationships with students. On the
whole, however, Davidson’s faculty are committed to creative, thoughtful teaching, and the balance between teaching and scholarship remains healthy and
positive.

There also is some danger that students will become alienated by the tensions between their understandable desire to govern their
own social activities and the college’s need for order and inclusiveness, and for a modicum of respect for laws regarding
consumption of alcohol. Finally, there is the threat—however distant—that Davidson might grow too large, that it might no longer be
a place where each professor can get to know most of her or his departmental majors and a good percentage
of the entire student body. Having taught at a university, I strongly believe that Davidson’s relatively small size is a
crucial component of its heart and soul. An April 1989 report by a broadly-based task force on the size of
the college agreed with my view that “the personal element is crucial to life at Davidson and dependent to some
degree on the scale of its operations and community,” and argued that “Davidson should remain a relatively small liberal arts
college.” The task force recommended that the student body be permitted to grow from the 1417 students here in 1988-89
to 1600 by the year 2000.

While admitting that any given number can be considered arbitrary, I believe that the student body, faculty, administration, alumni, and
Board of Trustees should reach a broad consensus within the next few years that 1600 should be the maximum number
of students not only through the year 2000, but into the indefinite future. Given the propensity of institutions...

See “Leverin?” on page 9

Don't Tread On Me: Tom Norwood

Hi! I’m back again to say those things that I’m not supposed to say. Unfortunately for the College, Chris Frampton
and Walter Price have been nice enough to give me a weekly column to voice my opinions. You may love
this column or may hate it, but either way it will force you to think.

Well, the word for the day boys and girls is “tokenism.” Can you say “tokenism”? I thought you could. Tokenism
was one of Malcolm X’s favorite terms. In Malcolm X Talks To Young People he says, "A few handpicked Negroes
gain from this [tokenism]; a few handpicked Negroes get good jobs; a few handpicked Negroes get good homes or go
to a decent school. And then they use these handpicked Negroes, they put ‘em on television, blow ‘em up, and
make it look like you got a whole lot of ‘em, when you only got one or two." Unfortunately, he
was right; the problem had not been solved.

See "Norwood" on page 9
