16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With U.S. Congressman (D-NC 7th District) and Davidson Alumnus

By Tom Koonce

Davidsonian: How did you begin your career in politics and what kind of background did Davidson provide for you?

Rose: When I was at Davidson, I graduated in 1961, I was there obviously during the presidential election of 1960.
Terry Sanford was running for governor and Jack Kennedy was running for president. I got involved in the Sanford campaign
with the college groups that were supporting Sanford. After I graduated I went to law school at Chapel Hill. After
law school I went to work in Raleigh for Terry Sanford for about two years. I then went home to
be the district court prosecutor, ran for Congress in 1970 and lost, ran in 1972 (in the Seventh District) and
won and have been re-elected ever since. I think my interests in public service, the notion that I needed to
contribute something to try and make the world better, was clearly something that developed at Davidson. I specifically remember taking
a New Testament course with Max Polley that made quite an impression on my life.

Davidsonian: You were recently elected president of the North Atlantic Assembly. How did this come about and what kinds of
jobs and duties does it entail?

Rose: I had to run for the office against a U.S. Senator from Delaware, who also wanted the job and
we had a very unprecedented election. I’ve been attending meetings of the North Atlantic Assembly since about 1975. The North
Atlantic Assembly was started as a parliamentary support group of the NATO Treaty Organization structure. But, since the Warsaw Pact
threat has virtually gone away, the North Atlantic Assembly has turned its efforts toward helping the new parliaments in eastern
and central European countries. We’ve made, from the Baltics to Bulgaria and Romania, the parliamentarians from these countries associate members
of the North Atlantic Assembly to try and help them learn how to set up their parliaments and especially how
to deal with the military establishment from a civilian point of view.

Davidsonian: Do you think this has helped congressmen better understand foreign countries, and how has this changed your personal perspective
on foreign events?

Rose: I have a much better view of what’s going on in Europe and what is actually happening in the
former Soviet Union. That helps me as I try and influence my colleagues in Congress as to what we ought
to do. I’m clearly better informed and in a better position to make a judgement to my colleagues as to
what we ought to do.

Davidsonian: You were also recently elected chairman of the House Administration Committee. Could you talk about the large responsibilities that
this job entails?

Rose: The House Administration Committee is really the city-manager’s office of Congress. In the past years it hasn’t included a
lot of direct oversight of the post office and the bank, but because of the recent problems that we’ve had
with the bank and the post office we are about to hire an administrator to help the committee on House
Administration oversee all of the officers of the House. So, we’re about to get even busier than we were before.
Our main function in the past has been to administer the accounts of members and committees. The rules under which
the money gets spent are made by my committee and we set the rules on how member offices are run.

Davidsonian: How do you feel about the problems with the bank and what do you believe should be done?

Rose: I clearly feel that we ought to reveal the names of the worst abusers, beyond that I think we
should have each member of Congress get a letter from the bank telling them what their own personal situation is
and then it should be up to the member to reveal. I'll tell everything, I don’t have anything to hide
about my relationship with the House bank.

Davidsonian: What are your opinions on campaign reforms, such as term limitations and public financing of campaigns?

Rose: Campaign finance reform is under the House Administration committee. We’ve just recently passed a rather far-reaching bill that limits
the amount of money that can be spent on campaigns. Now we’re trying to work out our differences with the
Senate. I hope within the next month or so to have a bill to pass and then send on to
the President. The main thing our legislation does is that we don’t do away with political action committees, but we
limit to $600,000 the amount of money you can spend on a congressional House race. The Senate has their own
limits, but I’m not sure what they are.

Davidsonian: What are your feelings about this year’s elections?

Rose: I think it’s going to be a pretty rough year for campaigning. I think the public is very disenchanted
with all of government, mainly because of the conditions in which they find the economy. They are mad at their
politicians at all levels for not having fixed the economy. It’s going to be a difficult year.

Davidsonian: What are your feelings about the future of the Democratic party?

Rose: I hope the Democratic party finds a candidate that can beat Bush, but I don’t think that’s going to
be an easy task. I have not gotten involved in the presidential campaign at this point, but I will clearly
work for whoever the convention nominates.

Davidsonian: Have you endorsed a (N.C.) gubernatorial candidate?

Rose: No, I’m going to wait until that gets...Started. Jim Hunt and I went to law school together, and I
know him well. I think he’d make a good governor. I don’t know Lacey Thornburg that well. I think that
people need to take a real close look at Jim Gardner and his background and ask themselves whether or not
they want him to be governor.

Davidsonian: What about the Senate race in North Carolina?

Rose: Sanford’s the incumbent, he doesn’t have a Democratic opponent, and I’ll certainly do everything I can to help him.

Davidsonian: What are your feelings about the redistricting process that recently took place in North Carolina? Are you pleased with
the results, given the fact that your district’s boundaries have changed?

Rose: I liked them the way they were, but shifts in population required that North Carolina add a congressional seat.
There are two laws at work. One is the law that every congressman, as near as possible, must represent the
same number of people. This year the magic number is about 552,000 people per congressman. The other law is the
Voting Rights Act and the way the Voting Rights Act is being interpreted by our Justice Department in Washington. If
it is possible to put contiguous areas together and create a minority district, it must be done. That’s what the
N.C. legislature did. There’s nothing in the law that says it should look nice. If somebody wants to offer a
look-nice or pretty amendment for the future, they probably should. I think it’s ridiculous that they wind up being so
drawn out, like the I-85 district. The I-85 district was the brainchild of people in Charlotte, specifically the NAACP, that
thought this made sense. It meets all the requirements of the law. My role in this was to tell the
legislature that if you can create a second minority district, you better do it.

Davidsonian: Do you think this will have any effect on your election?

Rose: It will probably cut down on my margin, but I certainly hope to be re-elected.

Davidsonian: What are your ideas about health care and national health care reform?

Rose: In November of last year, I held a public forum in each of the five counties of my district
where I invited people to come and talk about specific health care problems in their county and their ideas as
to what we should do at the national level. There are a tremendous amount of people today who are not
poor enough to get Medicaid but don’t make enough money to be able to afford an expensive health care program.
They are falling between the cracks. In my own district, in Lumberton, the hospital people came to me recently and
told me that a lot of small businesses in that town that were once paying a part of an employee’s
hospital insurance have quit paying it and are now giving it to the employees in cash through their paycheck. They
are telling the employees to go out in the marketplace and buy their own health insurance. People aren’t doing that;
they are using the money to buy a new car or whatever they particularly need. So, that’s not working. Places
like Hardee’s and McDonald’s don’t pay health insurance for any of their employees. We’ve got to come up with a
system that everybody can agree to, that Congress can pass, that will provide affordable health care for all Americans. That’s
not going to be an easy task; there’s going to be a little pain for everybody.

Davidsonian: What attracts you to the southeastern part of North Carolina?

Rose: When I first came to Washington, that part of North Carolina had never had a congressman on the agriculture
committee. Southeastern North Carolina has about four big towns in it, but it is still predominantly a rural agriculture area.
I got on the Agriculture Committee, and I am next in line to be chairman of the Agriculture Committee. When
the current chairman leaves, I’ll be chairman of the House Agriculture Committee. That is sort of a lifelong ambition. The
farmers over in Fayetteville even got the commissioners to name the agriculture center, the Charlie Rose Ag-Expo Center, after me.
I think it’s very important that we keep American agriculture on a sound footing, that we enable people to live
in rural America and give them the tools they need to raise their families and have a productive life and
make a profit. I think that’s important for the backbone of the country and the security of our future. Southeastern
North Carolina is a very beautiful mixture of all kinds of agriculture: tobacco, soybeans, corn, wheat, peanuts, sweet potatoes, and
specialty vegetable crops, as well as poultry, pork, and beef production. It’s an interesting place agriculturally.

Davidsonian: What kind of advice do you have for aspiring politicians at Davidson?

Rose: Get involved at some level in the local community and don’t be real choosy as to what the first
levels of involvement are. One thing young people need is experience on which they can base later judgments about politics,
and that only comes from actually experiencing a political campaign. Hubert Humphrey said in 1968 that the biggest mistake of
his political life was not learning to use television properly. I would say that today the two things that young
politicians need to understand in great detail are the abilities of computers and the abilities of television. You need to
master both television and computers today to be successful in seeking government office.
