Che Davidsonian _ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992 NUMBER 23

Davidson Trustees Pass New Alcohol Policy
By Tom Koonce

In an effort to curb the abuse of alcohol and underage drinking on campus, the Davidson Trustees approved the new alcohol policy this past Friday. This process began in February with the release of a new policy by Dean Terry. During March and early April, the CCRL worked with Dean Terry to compose a final copy of the policy to be presented to the Trustees. They solicited suggestions from various other campus organizations such as the SGA and PCC in an effort to devise the most effective policy.

The Trustees also authorized the administration to move towards the implementation of some of the non-alcohol social events proposed in the introduction to the alcohol policy, as funds become available. The policy was passed by the CCRL without dissent and was approved by Kuykendall for submission to the Trustees. The Trustees approved the policy presented to them by the CCRL and Kuykendall with only slight amendments. The new policy will go into effect on August 20, 1992.

The alcohol policy was revised on April 9 to include changes brought up by the CCRL and...

New Ethnic Studies Program Awaits Its Leader
By Chris Wells

Two weeks ago, Davidson interviewed two candidates, Earnest Brown and Nancy Fairly, for the position of Coordinator of a new Ethnic Studies program. The program, according to Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, is to be designed to “look at ethnicity broadly, as an American and even as a global phenomenon.” A proposed concentration within the program is intended first to examine the African-American culture, and then later expand to cover both Hispanic and Native American cultures as well.

The Educational Policy Committee has delayed the formation of the concentration, waiting for, as Williams said, “a critical mass of faculty who could teach courses in ethnic studies.” But with the addition of Dr. Janet Shannon, Dr. Wanda Webb, Dr. Barbara Ballard, and others, the committee feels that Davidson is now prepared to start up the program.

In order to receive a concentration in Ethnic Studies, it is projected that students will have to take a range of courses from different departments. It is also possible that a capstone course may be created, requiring students to complete the course in order to obtain the concentration.

Dean's Office Disciplines Fraternity
By Tom Price

Dean of Students Will Terry has devised a thirteen-item list of directives which the SAE fraternity must meet in order to remain on campus. SAE has been under investigation because of several charges of impropriety over the course of this past year. The Select Committee on “Rebuilding Community” specifically dealt with the SAE house in its report and recom...

Although the concentration may not be approved by the faculty for another year or two, it is probable that students will be able to count courses taken before the concentration is in place. The new coordinator, who will be given a tenured appointment in a department, will have three responsibilities: to coordinate the Ethnic Studies Program, to teach a reduced course load at Davidson, and to teach one course at Johnson C. Smith University, a historically African-American college. Williams said that “the chance to teach at both a historically black institution as well as a historically white institution” was “particularly attractive” to applicants for the position.

Davidson hopes that the new coordinator will also be able to raise funds for the program in addition to fulfilling their stated responsibilities. As the program will be given the budget of a small department, the director, like the directors of the Dean Rusk and the Medical Humanities programs, should be able to write grant proposals and raise money for the program. Williams, assessing the appointment, said, “I think we will...

See "Ethnic Studies” on page 2Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

mended sanctions. These thirteen directives are not a direct response to the Committee’s recommended sanctions, but were the decision of Dean Terry. Terry explained that he felt the Committee’s recommendation of prohibiting rushing and pledging activities for two years “would kill the fraternity slowly” and that if these sanctions were imposed that he “might as well ask them to leave.” Therefore, faced with the option of dissolving the house or attempting to rebuild it, Terry said he opted for “the path of rehabilitation.” Terry emphasized the importance of SAE meeting these directives. “If they do not,” he said, “they will be asked to leave.”

An appendix containing a listing of the duties of the alcohol monitors. These monitors will enforce the new regulations on Patterson Court and will report all violations to the Alcohol Enforcement Committee and the Dean of Students Office. They will therefore play a large role in determining whether or not this new policy succeeds in achieving the objectives of the administration and Trustees. The college has also created a new administration position to work with the Dean of Students Office in the supervision and guidance of Patterson Court. This person will live in the old PAX house and will be employed as the Assistant to the Dean for Patterson Court. The Dean’s Office is currently receiving applications for this job.

The introduction to the alcohol policy lists several suggestions to “change both the drinking patterns and the social milieu.” These include leaving the Baker Sports Complex open from 7 am until midnight seven days a week, having the 900 Room provide a creative recreational environment from 10:30 pm to 1:30 am five nights a week, having the dining service provide regular late night hours from 12 - 2 am every night, keeping the Union open twenty-four hours a day with snack bar service until 2 am and giving immediate attention to building a new college Union or renovating Johnston Gym “to provide a more appealing social life for students.” A joint committee consisting of students, faculty, and administrators has met for the past few weeks to come up with such alternative social opportunities that keep in line with the spirit of the new alcohol policy’s objectives.

See "Alcohol" on page 5

Junior Ursula Reel assists Trustee Tom Belk at the groundbreaking ceremonies for Davidson's new Visual Arts Center. See story on page 11. Photo By Casey Rogers

Deans and Student Leaders Address Criticism and Problems

By Will Boye

Last Wednesday in Love Auditorium, Davidson students were given an opportunity to attend a forum that addressed the college’s recently altered alcohol policy as well as the findings and suggestions of the Select Committee on “Rebuilding Community.” The forum was composed of speeches given by Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, John Patton - a student member of the Select Committee, Dean of Students Will Terry, and David Wright - Chairman of the Patterson Court Council. The forum was designed to respond to those questions that have been most frequently asked by students about both the Select Committee and the Alcohol Policy, allowing the community a candid environment in which their concerns might be discussed.

The first speaker of the evening was Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, who specifically addressed the nature of the Select Committee, the process undertaken by the Committee, and potential methods of coping with campus intolerance. Williams began his speech by pointing out the necessity of addressing these issues.

See "SGA" on page 3

NEWS: Tarazona Speaks Before Congress. See page 4. Speaker Calls For Changes in Today's Med Schools. See page 5.

OPINIONS: Spainhour: Short and to the point. See page 8.

ARTS: Bell Award Winners. See pages 12-13.

SPORTS: Trustees Approve Working Group Proposal. See page 16.

First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC 28036