4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

History Professor McMillen Authors New Book On Southern Women

By John Murchison

Associate professor of history Sally McMillen is the author of a new American History Series textbook titled “Southern Women: Black and White in the Old South.” The book, which deals with the lives of southern women in the antebellum South, is one of 30 titles in the American History Series published by Harlan Davidson Inc. of Arlington Heights, Ill. McMillen is the first female author in the series, whose editors are John Hope Franklin of Duke University and Abraham S. Eisenstadt of Brooklyn College.

In the book, McMillen shatters the “Gone With the Wind” myth of plantation belles living lives of leisure. She found that southern women lived lives constantly facing the deaths of loved ones, living with poor health, enduring physical discomforts, and relishing only a few moments of joy and leisure. Although black and white women led different lives, they shared an exhausting devotion to family and work.

McMillen wrote “Southern Women” because, as a teacher of southern history and women’s history, she could find no textbook that addressed both subjects in one volume, nor any book that talked about white and black women together. The most fruitful places for her research were diaries, journals, and letters found in manuscript libraries and historical societies throughout the South. She emerged from the research with her own interpretation of life in the Old South.

“It was a good exercise for the mind and will make me a better teacher,” McMillen said. “Davidson promotes teaching and research, and putting it all together for the benefit of the students in the classroom is what Davidson is all about.”

McMillen, a graduate of Wellesley College, became interested in southern history, and especially southern women, while working on her master’s degree in history at UNCC. That interest developed into a study of obstetrics in the region, which became the topic for her Ph.D. dissertation at Duke University. She published a book in 1989 as an expansion of that work. She is currently on sabbatical from Davidson classes this year and is working on a book about southern black and white Sunday schools in the period following the Civil War.

Smoke Continued from page 2

always say, ‘It’s my right to smoke.’”

The transition to a smoke-free campus is not always smooth. Tempers flared at Mesa State College in Colorado when Gov. Roy Romer officially declared “no smoking” in state-owned buildings, ending plans for a new smoking lounge in the college center. The ban has created controversy surrounding the legality of the declaration, and many question whether the governor can ban smoking in a building that has been supported by student fees. Though Mesa State can apply for an exemption, it has not done so. According to The Criterion, the school’s newspaper, President Ray Kieft inquired as to whether the college center was eligible for an exemption and was told that it probably wasn’t. Angry students staged a “smoke-in” in the fall, converging in the student center and smoking furiously for one hour. Their statement: The Governor has no right to ban smoking in a building paid for with their money.

“This all started when one student wrote a letter complaining about smoking to the Governor,” said Richard Reeder, a mass communications student at Mesa State.

Smoke-free campuses are not for everyone. At the University of Wisconsin at Green Bay, the student senate said aloud “‘NO” to a policy that would make the campus smoke-free. Chancellor David Outcalt devised a smoking phase-out plan last spring and asked for the student senate’s input by Oct. 1. The Senate sent a resolution to the chancellor requesting...That alternative filtration systems be researched and that ashtrays be placed outside of buildings. Still, the trend toward smoke-free campuses continues to grow. At Southeast Louisiana State University, cigarette vending machines were hauled away unceremoniously, leaving just a few spots where cigarettes can be purchased on campus. All smoking on campus is banned with the exception of dorm rooms, and usually, smokers are paired up with other smokers by the housing office. Smoking any place, except the dorms, is strictly prohibited.

The Tobacco Institute, citing an industry-wide policy not to communicate with college students, declined to say what was being done by them.

Connor Continued from page 1

Officially approved by the CCRL. The Presidents of Connor House are Sarah Way and Cotton. Vice Presidents are Keri Slater and Katey Hines. Treasurers are Suma Desai and Carolyn Hanson. Secretaries are Angela Capillary and Jean DeMoss. The Service Board and House and Kitchen managers are to be elected sometime presently.

After Applications Continued from page 1

Applicants. Sutton also mentioned that Davidson is also attempting to draw more applicants from different areas of the country and from foreign countries. Sutton says that Davidson still receives the most competition from other competitive colleges and institutions in the region such as Duke, UNC-Chapel Hill, and UVa. Sutton says this is noteworthy because among the competitive schools in this region Davidson is completely unique with its small size and emphasis on the liberal arts. Traditionally, Davidson has always featured more students from the South than any other region of the country. Most of these students did not consider northern schools such as Oberlin and Carleton which are actually more like Davidson than the larger universities in the South. Rather, students have generally considered only those schools in their immediate area. Sutton said that research has shown that the majority of high school students do not wish to travel more than 500 miles to college. Sutton will return next year to the classroom after the new Dean is selected sometime this spring. This arrangement will put him in the unique position of teaching those students he helped select. The new Dean of Admissions is expected to take over this July.

Write For News
Call Tom Koonce or Tom Price

Contact: at Chapel Hill
neurophysiology
molecular endocrinology
cardiovascular and renal physiology
cellular physiology

GRADUATE PROGRAM IN PHYSIOLOGY
University of North Carolina
molecular biology and biotechnology

The Department of Physiology offers an outstanding program for qualified applicants interested in doctoral study and research. All admitted students receive assistantships valued at $12,000 per year. For more information contact:

David Millhorn, Director of Graduate Studies
Department of Physiology, CB #7545
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599
Telephone: 919-966-5241