6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992

Coach Rescinds Resignation, Renews Fight

LAS VEGAS, Nev. (CPS) - Jerry Tarkanian is giving new meaning to the phrase “going out with a bang.”

The University of Nevada at Las Vegas men’s basketball coach, scheduled to step down March 3, says he is rescinding his resignation. Tarkanian announced the latest in the ongoing soap opera after a 2-1/2 hour rally Feb. 23.

In a written statement, Tarkanian said he was tired of watching himself, his staff, his family, and his former players “trashed again and again by a series of untruths, distortions, and inaccuracies.”

Tarkanian’s resignation last June came about after a newspaper ran a photo of three former Runnin’ Rebels players sitting in a hot tub with convicted sports fixer Richard Perry.

The controversy surrounding the resignation served to highlight a sparring match between the coach and UNLV president Robert Maxson, who accepted the resignation and said he has no intention of allowing Tarkanian back on the court after March 3, his last scheduled game as a UNLV coach.

“There is a state statute in Nevada that says you have only three days to take back a resignation,” said Joe Hawk, UNLV sports information director. “Maxson is the only person who can legally allow (Tarkanian) to rescind his resignation. He has no plans to do that.”

Tarkanian’s attorneys now claim, however, that a binding agreement between Tarkanian and Maxson that said neither side would “bad mouth” the other has been violated by the UNLV administration.

The attorneys said administrators intentionally leaked problems and violations within the basketball program to the press and that such a move violated the agreement, giving Tarkanian the legal option to rescind the resignation.

Those violations include 29 alleged National Collegiate Athletic Association infractions currently under investigation. In addition, the Las Vegas Review Journal has reported that the FBI and the federal Organized Crime Task Force are investigating point-shaving allegations against last year’s team.

This year’s basketball team has been banned from television and postseason play as a final resolution of a 14-year fight between the NCAA and Tarkanian.

On Feb. 19, the players voted to sue the NCAA in an attempt to get into the NCAA postseason tournament. The team has already clinched the school’s 10th straight Big West Conference championship.

While Tarkanian continues to fight with Maxson, the NCAA is being forced to hold off on its current investigation of possible violations. The NCAA has filed suit against Tarkanian and three others challenging the constitutionality of a state law that holds NCAA enforcement proceedings to conform to legal due process standards.

Game
Monday, March 2
Davidson
Vs.
Liberty

GO CHEER ON
THE WILDCATS

7:30 Belk Arena

Last Home Basketball

with fellow students.

Davidson Outdoors

Hobie-Cat Sailing Adventure
Monday, May 11, 1992 - Saturday, May 16, 1992

This is not a five-day vacation in the sun. It is a chance to learn how to sail, to navigate, and other procedures that are essential to the daily life on a fast sailboat. The primary emphasis on this trip is fun and sharing a unique experience.

We will leave the Davidson campus and drive to the coast where we will meet instructors from Don-Lee Sailing Adventures. The first day we will become orientated with the boat and its functions. Then we will start our four-day excursion to the Outer Banks area. We will be spending the three nights in tents at various campsites. Then we will return to the base camp and have a big seafood meal and reflect on the past week. Then we will drive back to the Davidson campus.

COST: $215.00, includes all costs associated with the sailing week (food, supplies, boat), travel between Davidson and Arapahoe, North Carolina, and equipment rental and camping fees.

ADDITIONAL EXPENSES: food during the drive down and back. $30.00 should be sufficient.

GROUP SIZE: 8 people minimum, 14 people maximum
DEPOSIT: $50.00 due when you sign up

SIGN UP AT UNION DESK!!!

HELP CAMPAIGN FOR GOV. BILL CLINTON

FOR INFORMATION, CALL EILEEN KEELEY AT

THIS IS A PAID ADVERTISEMENT

Are you looking for a fun way to celebrate graduation? Do you have a couple of weeks before your summer job starts and just want a little excitement? Then you should consider a week-filled “adventure” on a Hobie Catamaran.