Davidson English Department Announces Annual Writing Awards
By Stancel Riley

The Department of English praised the distinguished winners of the 1992 Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing, the Charles
E. Lloyd Award for Writing, and the R. Windley Hall Award for Freshmen on April 9, 1992, in the 900
Room of the College Union.

The Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing is the highest accolade Davidson presents to the sophomore, junior, or senior
who has done the best work in poetry, fiction, or drama. North Carolina novelist Jill McCorkle, author of Ferris Beach,
Tending to Virginia, July 7th, and The Cheerleader, judged the competition. Before she named the most promising students in creative
writing for the 1992 year, she left the audience dizzy with emotion after her reading “Departures” from her new collection
of short stories, Crash Diet. In presenting the awards, she commended Davidson on the quality of writers it had produced
this year.

In poetry, Janet Sanford received the Vereen Bell Award for her manuscript called After The Vision. “Indian Summer” was praised
for the powerful use of imagery with lines like “Flaming lime and stinging pickle.” Carla Badgett was awarded the second
place prize for her collection of poems. McCorkle made specific references to the quality of “A Foolish Virgin” and “The
Promises of Faith.”

The Vereen Bell Award for the most outstanding short story was given to Chuck Scofield for his work called “Paperdoll.”
Scofield uses powerful language and imagery to describe the life of a professional stripper. Rebecca Hoyt was runner-up to the
prestigious award with a piece called “Redsox and Red Lobster.” Philip Atchison received the third place distinction for his short
story, “Back Hoe.”

The Charles E. Lloyd Award for writing is the highest award Davidson offers to the sophomore, junior, or senior who
produces the best piece of non-fiction prose. Jane Shoemaker, the Managing Editor of the Charlotte Observer, judged the competition. She
prefaced the presentation of the awards with a few remarks about how excited she was to see Davidson students write
with clarity, rhythm, and voice. Sara Carlson was named the winner of the 1992 Charles E. Lloyd Award for her
piece called “To the Man.” Bailey Foster received the second place distinction for her essay called “On God and Evolution.”

The R. Windley Hall Award for Freshmen is presented to the freshman who submits the best piece of creative writing.
Kemmer Anderson, creative writing teacher at the McCallie School and 1967 graduate of Davidson, was the judge for this competition.
Before he read out the names of the winners, he read a few political poems which he is currently working
to complete. He speculated on the future achievements of the class of 1995 based on the quality of the entries.
Christopher Kip received the first place award for his piece “10:15 Tonight.” The second place award was given to Daniela
Welsh for her piece called “Sexless Hockey.”

At the conclusion of the ceremony, a reception was held in honor of the winners. At that time, the judges
made themselves available for questions about individual manuscripts and offered tips on how to improve each individual's writing.

New Visual Arts Center
By Will Montgomery

On Thursday, April 23, under gorgeous spring skies, the Davidson Visual Arts Center was formally ushered into its construction stage
with an exciting, informal groundbreaking. The ceremony began with traditional Protestant solemnities as College President John Kuykendall welcomed the crowd
of students, faculty, donors, trustees, and Campaign for Davidson organizers. Next, Chair of the Art Department Herb Jackson acknowledged the
major step taken toward the creation of “for its size, the best Art Department in the United States.” Jackson thanked
those whose vision and faith nurtured the project to its long-anticipated fruition. Trustee and Chair of the Arts Facilities Planning
Group Katherine M. Belk recognized Boston architect Graham Gund and then focused the crowd's attention on the “groundbreaking.”

Here the ceremony fearlessly and spiritedly jumped track and became a large-scale performance piece. With Art History Professor Shaw Smith
serving as interpreter/commentator, Visiting Assistant Art Professor Andy Owen orchestrated one of his famous steamroller prints. Smith highlighted the significance
of “process” in the work. To emphasize the concept, several distinguished guests and art students assisted in the creation of
Owen’s piece. The textured asphalt and wooden Roman numerals IV XXIII XCII (or April 23, 1992) served as plates for
the print. As the crowd watched, guests placed the plywood numbers on the ground, Owen spread paint (red and black,
of course) and plastic granules, and students fitted the paper and protective blankets.Delight of this theatrical piece was Shaw Smith’s
engaging narration and Owen on his trusty steel steed, BOMAG 141.

Bumstead Continued from adjoining column

Weeks). Articles in Time and even Rolling Stone have come forth to sing country music’s praises. If you didn’t believe
me all year, if you still think that country music does nothing for anybody with musical taste, well, you’re sort
of a closed-minded boob, but you're still quite entitled to your own opinion (just kidding). Pop or not pop, the
true country fans will always be there. I want to thank Walter Price, David Thompson, and Jim Carswell for letting
me have this large space with which to enthrall you each week; I also wanted you to know who you
could go kick if you felt like doing so. Well, anyway, good luck on exams, have a great summer, and
thanks to those four or five of you (was it that many?) who kept the faith and whistled with me
each week! Take care now, y’hear? (oh, brother)

“Oh, the last goodbye’s the hardest one to say/This is where the Cowboy rides away” - George Strait, from “The
Cowboy Rides Away”

Okay, okay. Enough tears. Yes, folks, “Whistlin’ Dixie” must, with this final issue of the Davidsonian, come to a close.
Oh, sure, I’ll be back now and then for a review (Garth and Clint Black will release new projects in
September), a look at the CMA’s (remember those?), or other big news. But for my final (huge) installation of America’s
favorite light reading, I have chosen to select a few albums, generally from today’s generation of artists, that I feel
are each essential to a country collection; any one of them would make a great place to start. I compiled
a small list and then asked a few “local” country experts to throw in their additional choices for their favorite
country albums.

(A few of) Matt’s Suggested Country Delights:

Garth Brooks: Sorry, I can’t pick one here. If you don’t buy Garth Brooks, you miss out on “The Dance”
and perhaps his most truly heartfelt and truly country release. If you miss No Fences, you have passed over the
album that shot him and country music to the fore; you also miss, among others, one of the all-time great
songs, “Friends in Low Places”. Pass over Ropin’ The Wind, and you simply skip the biggest-selling, highest-ranking country album of
all time. Take your pick.

Randy Travis: Storms of Life. Although the layman might single out Always and Forever, most Travis fans agree that nothing
can match his first release.

George Strait: Greatest Hits, Vol I or Vol II. Again, too tough to choose here. I personally might side with
no. 2, but you can’t possibly go wrong either way.

Hank Williams, Jr.: Greatest Hits, Vol I. No question here. This album is truly a classic and a must-have.

Clint Black: Killin’ Time. Again, this is one of the greatest country albums ever released. No one song stands out
as the best, but together, the tunes work to form a beautifully solid and fluid creation. Many of my guest
panelists echoed my choice here and would have themselves chosen it had I not.

Okay, so there are a few from recent years. Now for the guest panelists, many of whom might have chosen
one from my list, but, at my request, added one extra instead:

Walter Price: David Allen Coe, 20 Greatest Hits
Tom Norwood: Vince Gill, When I Call Your Name
Brent Leviner: Patsy Cline, 12 Greatest Hits
Jennifer Beahm: Reba McEntire, For My Broken Heart
Alden Smith: Don Williams, 20 Greatest Hits
Terrica Gibson: Kenny Rogers, 20 Greatest Hits
Gantt Bumstead (okay, so my brother doesn’t go here. It’s my column, and I’ll do what I want, nyahh): Don
Williams, 20 Greatest Hits

So, there are a few suggestions to any of you trying to decide on a great country album to buy.
Other suggestions included the following:
- The Charlie Daniels Band, A Decade of Hits
- Alan Jackson, Don’t Rock The Jukebox
- Mark Chesnutt, Too Cold at Home
- Patty Loveless, Honky Tonk Angel

I wholeheartedly agree with all these choices. In addition, I should note that any of the greatest hits collections from
masters like Merle Haggard, George Jones, Johnny Cash, or Hank Williams would also be great investments that would assure hours
of rapture and many yee-ha’s.

When I started writing back in September, I never expected to continue writing, nor did I expect to see country’s
influence and success in the music industry increase. Well, both happened, didn’t they? I got a lot better at using
this silly computer, and Garth Brooks is tied now for the tenth-longest stay at Billboard’s number one pop album spot
(18 weeks).

See “Bumstead" in adjoining column
