THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

No, Pick It

Well, there are a lot of things I could write about this week - too many to choose from, really. But I don’t know that I’ll have this chance again - not for four years, so I’ll throw in my two cents about tomorrow’s Presidential election.

I refuse, however, to use Whistlin’ Dixie as a soapbox from which to preach my particular political views. That’s not what this column is about, and I simply won’t sink to that level. I just wouldn’t do that. Instead, I thought it might be a little tension breaker on this election eve to look at some politics - country style.

Now, certain artists have definite stands. Those of you who were glued to the television on September 30th and saw Mary-Chapin Carpenter win the award for Best Female Vocalist at the CMA Awards (... by the way, am I prophetic or what? But that’s another story - we’ll pat me on the back later) saw her Clinton/Gore button. Clinton/Gore in country music? Shocking? Well, for one thing, she went to Brown. Enough said. For another, she certainly would not be the only person in the country music world to feel that way. Just because liberals are the favorite food of your average redneck does not mean that country music runs from the Democrats.

First of all, don’t forget that country music performers, writers, etc. are, contrary to the beliefs of some pathetic boobs, artists. And many artists love “liberal” causes. Also, remember that the average listener of country music is in the middle class - maybe in the South, headquarters of the “yellow dog” Democrats. So, yes, many of your favorites will probably cast one for Bill and Al’s Excellent Adventure.

Then there’s Randy Travis, who happens to be Bush’s favorite artist. Does that mean he’ll vote for George and Danforth? Well, I don’t know anything about Randy’s political views; but Randy probably owes the Prez a few, at least for “Point of Light,” which Bush commissioned for Randy Travis to sing.

Who’ll vote for the little man with the big surprise? Well, Mark Chesnutt, Clint Black, and George Strait are all Texans (and Chesnutt and Black are short); so Perot may be their man. Between him and Bush, they’ll have divided loyalties, I’m sure.

Don’t even ask Charlie Daniels for whom he’s voting. Listen to the songs “Uneasy Rider” or “Simple Man” (along with half of his other songs), and you'll know that he is about as fond of someone perceived as a draft-dodger/anti-war demonstrator as he is of having his fingernails torn off. Bush all the way.

Billy Ray Cyrus? Hmmm. Lots of hype, but his songs don’t really have much to say. Sounds like a Perot follower to me. (nothing personal, Mr. Perot)

Clinton’s followers will be numerous as well; as I said, artists are more liberal-minded. But country music has soared under the Bush administration, and many performers might be too superstitious to bite the hand under which they’ve gotten rich. Still, musicians would have to love a President who could have nightly sax jam sessions with them.

Garth? Well, I asked Jenn Beahm for some confirmation; and we agreed that he’s probably a Bushman (which will, I’m sure, sway many).you to vote Clinton). Did you notice that “We Shall Be Free,” while radical for country music, said nothing about abortion? Smart move, Garth; you’re a real politician. . . . Hey! That gives me an idea. . . Well, if for no other reason, Garth probably will avoid Clinton at all costs; with the upper bracket tax increase, he knows his taxes will be about twenty million dollars. The point is this: I really don’t know for whom these people are going to vote; and you know what? I don’t care. I like it that way. If I want political advice, I’m not going to go to a movie star, a professional athlete, or a country music performer. That’s not what interests me about them. And what do they know, anyway? Oh, sure, everyone in the public eye should feel a responsibility to make a statement for that in which he or she believes. And certainly everyone, celebrity or not, should feel free to support, verbally or otherwise, the candidate of his or her choice. And I do like to know that the people whose records I buy or whose games I watch are good, honest people. But goodness and politics, as we all know, are not the same story. Unfortunately, I’m sometimes not even sure that they’re in the same library. Something else I like about country music is that I don’t have to hear about politics and other such rigamarole when I turn to it. I get enough of that during the day; and, quite frankly, I don’t want the writer’s or performer’s

See "Vote" on page 12

Write for ARTS
Call Hov at -6617

ARTS By the I.P.C. Kids

On Thursday, November 5 the Intimate Performance Committee presents Maria Howell and the 7th Street Band in concert at nine o’clock in the 900 Room. A native of Gastonia, Howell has established herself as an outstanding jazz performer in the Carolinas. In 1985 Howell auditioned for a non-speaking part in The Color Purple, however, her ability as a singer landed her the soloist’s role in the film. Following this stirring performance Howell joined the 7th Street Band who she met during the production of the film. Since then Maria Howell and the 7th Street Band have recorded a full-length album and performed alongside such artists as Patti Labelle and George Benson.

Adults Continued from page 10

ATTENTION, CONSUMER ALERT: For those of you wanting to see this thinking there will be a lot of steamy sex scenes, you can save your money for a dirty magazine or something because there are none. Anyway, this movie’s problems can be boiled down to a simple statement: in an attempt to be at least as clever as Basic Instinct, the film leaves a muddled plot that becomes unbelievable and an apathetic cast to make sense of it all. (Besides, their main babe here ain’t got nothing on Sharon Stone anyway). A tip to the producers: the dollar is in the mail so as soon as you get it you can go out and buy a clue with it, or at the very least a halfway decent script.

©1992

A GROENING FABRIC HISTORY OF MY LOUSY MOOD:

AFTER 1972

BEFORE

AFTER

AFTER

DENSE

AFTER

AFTER

CHOOSE