THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

Davidson to Get Supermarket
Dover's Set to Open at Sadler's Square

Photo by Kennon Gues
Local supermarket chain, Dover's, prepares for its opening soon after Thanksgiving. The store's located in Sadler's Square Shopping Center, next to Cornwell Drugs.

By Sally Stone
The town of Davidson awaits its newest addition. Dover Supermarket plans to open its third grocery store in Sadler’s Square Shopping Center, next to Cornwell Drugs. No official date has been set, but Audy Dover, owner of Dover’s, said she hopes to open soon after Thanksgiving.

Dover Supermarket opened its first store in 1920 in Concord, NC. They also have a store in Mount Pleasant. Dover’s is a traditional, full-service grocery, committed to selling “fresh quality products the way [they were] sold thirty years ago,” Dover said. His grandfather began the chain, followed by his father, and now he marks its third generation.

Dover’s compares its prices to Winn Dixie, Food Lion, Harris Teeter, and Bi-Lo. In quality, Dover’s only competitors are Harris Teeter and Winn Dixie. Dover stressed how his store tries to draw the line between quality and price; because, as he notes, “People want quality, but won’t pay more.” He is especially proud of Dover’s meat and produce departments, stressing that the store sells only fresh meats and produce.

Dover welcomes student applications and he looks forward to establishing Dover Supermarket in Davidson, emphasizing that no one will ever “beat us in quality.”

Happy! Happy! Joy! Joy! Disturb Several Town Residents

By Phil Atchison
In past weeks, wails of discontent have echoed in the pages of local newspapers and the sore ears of the Davidson administration. Some of the students who make their homes in the surrounding neighborhoods of the college have come under attack for alleged inappropriate behavior. Neighbors have complained of raucous parties and rambunctious revelers.

The inhabitants of 705 North Main Street were the main focus of a front-page article in the Mecklenburg Neighbors section of the Charlotte Observer. That article aired neighbors’ complaints of twenty-four-hour drunken activity and acts of indecent exposure. Another off-campus house on North Thompson Street was mentioned for having had, earlier in the fall, a noisy party and a raging bonfire. The conflagration required the Davidson V.F.D. to extinguish the blaze.

The town of Davidson has reacted quickly to these allegations. A letter was sent by the town attorney to the owners/landlords of certain houses reminding them that under an obscure article of North Carolina law they could face fines and/or imprisonment for disturbances perpetrated by their tenants. Then there is the threat of an unused town ordinance which prohibits more than three men of the same fraternity from living together in the same dwelling.

At a town meeting on the thirteenth of October, residents and students discussed solutions to their problems. Trey Rust, a resident of 705 North Main, attended the meeting and volunteered to organize a committee of eight off-campus students for the purpose of bettering the relationship between students and the town.

“The main problem the neighbors have with students who live off campus is the noisy traffic of people coming and going,” said Rust. “There are a lot of kids around here whose parents don’t want them seeing us drink all the time.”

The general concept of this...

See "Off-Campus" on page 4

"Where America Shops For Sunglasses"Serenamm O70=Y Maxi Yim’ fey om |-77 Exit 28, Lake Norman, N.C. (704) 892-6017

Senior Friendship Program

The Senior Friendship Program is a cooperative effort between Reach Out and the Davidson Senior Services Center in which students are paired with “grandparents” from the community or from the Pines. Students visit their senior friends regularly and attend cultural events, help out around the home, or just sit and chat. The program also has about five organized “get-togethers” per year, and these are usually held at the Depot behind the Main Street Computer Center. The most recent gathering was a “Kick Off the Holiday Season” party on Thursday, November 19 at the Depot where all who attended enjoyed Thanksgiving and Christmas goodies and the first carol sing of the season with piano accompaniment by Miss Neta Belle Scaraboro.

The Senior Friendship coordinators are currently organizing a new dimension to the program in which student volunteers go to visit senior citizens in the health care unit of the Pines. There is a need for students to take an hour per week to read the newspaper, organize games, or walk and exercise with the residents there. We would be glad to have more volunteers for the Senior Friendship Program, and many students have found it to be a very rewarding experience. Please call Jen -6332 or Suz -6803 if you are interested.

Wonderful Wednesdays

The Wonderful Wednesdays program provides Davidson students with the opportunity to interact weekly with inner-city children of all ages. The Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church sponsors this program and has come to depend on Davidson students to serve as role models and teacher’s aides. The church holds “Sunday School” classes and serves dinner every Wednesday night. This program may be one of the least known and most enjoyable in the Reach Out system. If you like children, you’ll love this program. Call Kyle Kinner or Seth McCain (X6641) if you would like to become involved.

The Honor System: Hey, Read This Article!

By Matt Bumstead

Well, I fooled you, didn’t I? I got you to start reading one of those boring Honor System articles! But as long as you’re here, why not spend four more minutes and finish this thing off?

When I last wrote, I was describing in detail the trial process; Thad made it through the executive session, in which the six voting panel members and the secretary deliberate for hours about the innocence or guilt of the defendant. If the defendant is found innocent, all records of the trial are destroyed immediately. If the defendant is found guilty, the Defense Advisers and Solicitors will each suggest a proper sanction and will present reasons or mitigating circumstances that have led them to suggest that sanction. The Council will then return to executive session to decide upon sanction. The Council will take into account the recommendations of the Solicitors and Defense Advisers in deciding upon the proper sanction. In order to decide upon a sanction, two-thirds of the panel members must agree in a vote; unless the

See "Honor" on page 3

RAFTERS RESTAURANT

Serving the best in traditional Southern Foods

Tues.-Fri. Lunch: 11-2; Dinner: 5-9
Saturday Dinner: 5-9
Wednesday-College Night
Special on Selected Appetizers (1/2-Price)
Discount on Beer: Occasional ENTERTAINMENT
Weekend Specials include grilled swordfish and broiled salmon
Entrees include fresh vegetables
To-Go Orders — Daily Lunch Specials
761 N. Main St. Mooresville, NC 704/663-7322