10 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

Davidson Arts

Scott energizes the audience with a dramatic monologue. The artist, whose works are on exhibit now in Chambers Gallery, gave
a presentation last Wednesday which included this performance, an explanation of her art, and a question and answer session. She
dealt with the issues of beauty in society, sexism, and racism with severity and a sense of humor. The event
was sponsored by the Art Department.

Mint Exhibition of Historic North Carolina Architecture Salutes the Opening of the NationsBank Corporate Center

In salute to the October 24th public debut of the NationsBank Corporate Center, Charlotte’s Mint Museum is now exhibiting 27
Louis Orr etchings of historic North Carolina architecture on the second level of NationsBank’s Founder’s Hall. Louis Orr (1879-1966) was
considered by many to be the greatest etcher of his time, ranking among Rembrandt and Piranesi. He was the first
living artist to have a work accepted into the collection of the Louvre Museum. The Louvre policy at the time
was for works of living artists to be placed in the Luxembourg Museum, and if judged worthy, admitted to the
Louvre 25 years after the death of the artist. Orr’s rendition of the Pont Neuf and 10 other French landmarks
were accepted immediately.

Orr is a native of Hartford, Connecticut who studied at the Ecole des Beaux Arts at the turn of the
century. Orr was selected by the French government to etch the Centennial Portrait of Louis Pasteur. His etching of the
National Capital, commissioned by Yale University to honor William Howard Taft, was so extraordinary that the State Department purchased prints
to hang in every one of its embassies worldwide. Dr. Robert Lee Humber of Greenville, NC, an international businessman and
graduate of Wake Forest University and Harvard, met Orr in Paris. Eventually, Humber induced Orr to create a North Carolina
series of sketches, and if it were not for the threat and subsequent German invasion of France in 1940, Humber
may not have been successful.

Louis Orr’s North Carolina collection took 12 years to produce. Subjects range from the Biltmore House in Asheville to the
State Capitol in Raleigh, from the Cupola House in Edenton to Salisbury’s Community House. A complete set of Orr’s North
Carolina Etchings is part of the Mint Museum of Art’s permanent collection.

By Ashley Atkins

1. “Two Princes”
Band: The Spin Doctors
Category: Rock
Rating: *****
Comment: This group has a very distinguishing sound. The electric guitar and drums are not too heavy, the melody is
upbeat, and the lyrics are clever.
Best line: “One (prince) has diamonds in his pockets. This one wants to buy you rockets.”
Can be heard at: The Court

2. “Achy Breaky Heart”
Singer: Billy Ray Cyrus
Category: Country
Rating: *
Comment: I think I learned a song like this in Kindergarten.
Can be heard: When you're too lazy to change the station.
Best line: The last one.

3. “My Lovin’ (Never Gonna Get It)”
Group: En Vogue
Category: R & B
Rating: ****
Comment: If you can dance, this song will definitely put you in the right mood. Unfortunately, Jason Burt says the
guys at Davidson do not like to dance to this song because..... “It’s self-explanatory.”
Best line: “I give to the needy, not the greedy.”
Can be heard: 95.1 FM, The Court

4. “Lithium”
Band: Nirvana
Category: Rock
Rating: *** 1/2
Comment: “Smells Like Teen Spirit” is a better song; however, at least they only shot up once to write this
one.
Best lines: “I’m so lonely. That’s okay, I’ll shave my head.” “I’m so happy, ‘cause today, I found my friends.
They’re in my head.”

5. “Just to stand nextto you.” (I think that’s the title... It’s something cheesy like that.)

Singer: Gloria Estefan
Category: Mellow pop
Rating: 1/2*
Comment: Who let her out of the hospital?!
Can be heard: On an elevator.

New Movie Critic Duo Reviews Sneakers
By Will Lazenby and Mary McCrory

Due to the massive influx of alcohol-policy related articles recently, we’ve decided to write about something different: i.e. not the
alcohol policy. We figure, since you can’t be down on the court any old time you please, a lot of
you will have plenty of time on your hands. Sure, you could be original and go to the library, but
really, there is only so much exposure to green carpet a person can take. And, believe it or not, there
are only so many trips to the Union one can make before all the snack food starts to look the
same. Every once in a while, a person needs to get out of here. Short of a junior year abroad,
sometimes your best bet is a pilgrimage to the Mecca, that is, Cornelius, and the Movies at the Lake. That’s
where we come in. We wouldn’t want you to have to waste your time or money on movies unworthy of
your patronage, so we'll do it for you. Just call us martyrs.

Instead of going to the 24-hour study room on a Saturday night, like we normally would have, we dragged ourselves
all the way to Cornelius to see Sneakers. The movie boasts a veteran cast (Robert Redford, Sidney Poitier, Ben Kingsley,
Dan Aykroyd) which is strengthened by impressive performances from a less-experienced trio - River Phoenix (Mosquito Coast), Mary McDonnell (Dances
with Wolves), and David Strathairn. As he did in The Natural, Robert Redford plays a man running from his past.
As Martin Bishop, he and his cohorts hire themselves out to break into highly protected buildings to test for weak
links in their security systems. All the trouble starts when Bishop is confronted by what appears to be a government
agency. They give him an ultimatum: work for us, or go to jail. His crew goes along with it, because
they need the money.

So there you have it. After that, the movie becomes one big convoluted mass of plot twists. I personally spent
most of the movie wishing my last name was McDonnell, not McCrory. First of all, Mary McDonnell gets to play
opposite Robert Redford. As if that weren’t enough, she gets to dance with River Phoenix! (To Aretha’s “Chain of Fools”)
Beyond her interaction with the other characters, McDonnell has a great part. She plays a tough, intelligent woman, who isn’t
above compassion, and helps Redford out of some tough spots. Will, on the other hand, really liked Dan Aykroyd’s character.
Aykroyd’s cynical digs at Sidney Poitier’s C.I.A. past provide some of the funniest dialogues in the film. For Will, though,
it was David Strathairn’s character who, with his sightless ingenuity, really ties the movie together.

We’re not saying this movie is perfect, as sometimes it moves so fast, you don’t have time to think about
how infeasible a lot of it is. But that’s why it is a movie, after all, and one you should
definitely go see. P.S. Keep an eye out for a veteran actor not in the billing...

Acclaimed Eduardus Halim Plays Tonight

Eduardus Halim, an Indonesian-born pianist, has been considered as one of the most distinctive talents of his generation. His program
for tonight will include works by Mozart, Granados, Chopin, and Liszt. Faculty/staff tickets are $4; the charge for children under
18 is $2. There is no fee for Davidson College students. The concert will take place at 8:15 p.m. in
Hodson Hall, Cunningham Arts Building.

Write for the fabulous art section (it obviously needs it).
