"THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXIII MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1992

Two Students Awarded Watson Fellowship
By Jeff Oller

On March 17, Davidson seniors John Patton and Tom Johnson were awarded Watson Fellowship awards. The Thomas J. Watson Foundation,
which awards the fellowships, was founded in 1961 by Mrs. Thomas J. Watson Sr., in honor of her late husband.
In 1968 the Foundation introduced a Fellowship program designed to enable college graduates of exceptional promise to engage in a
year of independent study and travel abroad following graduation. Since 1968, approximately 1600 Watson Fellowship awards have been made with
stipends totaling over $15 million.

The brochure, available in Dean Terry’s office, stated, “The Fellowship experience is intended to provide Fellows an opportunity to immerse
themselves in cultures other than their own for an entire year.” They search for individuals who “demonstrate integrity, strong ethical
character, intelligence, the capacity for vision and leadership, and potential for humane and effective participation in the world community.” A
candidate is to propose a project that indicates concern and personal commitments. The project should not involve extended study at
a foreign university and, thus, should be a creative, feasible, and personally significant project that one can pursue with independence
and adaptability.

Consideration for the Watson Fellowship award is open to all graduating seniors regardless of sex, race, age, nationality, undergraduate program,
and previous foreign experience that receive nominations from the participating institution they attend.

See "Watson" on page 3

Company Endows Honor of Trustee Dolan
By Kevin Miller

James Hardymon, President and CEO of Textron Inc., announced last weekend that his company will give a gift of $1
million to Davidson College for the Beverly F. Dolan Professorship. The chair, which might be awarded as early as next
year, will honor and support a respected member of the faculty in mathematics or the physical sciences.

Dolan, chairman of Textron Inc., is a trustee and national chairman of Davidson’s $150 million Campaign for Davidson. He founded
E-Z-Go, a golf car manufacturer based in Augusta, Ga., in the early 1950s, and he stayed on as the company’s
chairman when it was bought by Textron in 1960. In 1976 Dolan was named the president of Textron’s Homelite Division
in Charlotte, and in 1979 he was named the executive vice president-operations. In 1980 he was named president, chief operating
officer, and director, and finally in 1985 he was elected chief executive officer. Last winter he traveled with President George
Bush to the Far East for trade talks. Dolan is retiring at the end of the year after more than
twenty years of dedicated service to Textron. The Professorship will pay tribute to his service both to his company and
to Davidson College.

Students of Performance Seminar to Present Shakespearean Comedy
By Ed Cunningham

On April 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th, the students of the Performing Shakespeare Seminar, with Professor of English, Cynthia Lewis,
will present Shakespeare’s classic romantic comedy, A Midsummer Night’s Dream. The performances will be held in the Davidson College Presbyterian
Church.and to Davidson. President John W. Kuykendall said, in thanking Textron, “More than any other gift, the gift of an
endowed professorship strengthens teaching and learning at Davidson.” Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty Robert Williams
said, “We are absolutely delighted with this gift because endowed faculty positions are at the heart of The Campaign for
Davidson. It helps ensure for future generations a first-rate teaching faculty dedicated to providing the best possible liberal arts education.”

See "Dolan" on page 2

Church-Lingle Chapel and begin at 7:30. Lewis structured the seminar so that the class would first study the play, in
great detail, as well as Renaissance theater and society. The students researched a number of related topics, including how men
and women were portrayed in the theater, how they dressed, and how they danced. Each of them was then asked
to write a paper in which they cast the play and explained their reasoning, and this helped Lewis in her
final casting. Puck will be played by freshman Eleanor Hatcher. She will create much of the comedy.

See "Shakespeare" on page 3

NUMBER 22

College Chaplain, Registrar Announce Their Resignations
By Kevin Miller

This week saw the resignations of two Davidson staff members, College Chaplain Chuck Hasty and Registrar Sue Ross. Hasty resigned
last Thursday so he could take an offer to serve as pastor of the Madison Presbyterian Church in Madison, Georgia.
Hasty, after three years of service as Chaplain, said in a letter addressed to students, faculty, and staff that he
felt happiness that he had, “been called to serve as pastor,” but that he felt, “sadness because accepting this call
means having to say goodbye to so many dear friends and colleagues.” He went on to say that, “I cherish
the friendships that have been fostered here and anticipate their continuing in the years to come. I am hopeful and
excited about the ways in which God is continuing to work in the life of this community. I am thankful
for the opportunity to have been a part of it and pledge my continued prayers and support.”

On Monday, March 30, Dean of Faculty Robert Williams announced that Ross has resigned effective July 1, 1992. In a
memo to all faculty and staff, Williams said that Ross will continue at the college as a Lecturer in English
in 1992-1993. In the interim, current Vice-President for Academic Affairs Polly Griffith will serve as Registrar for the 1992-93 term.
Before coming to Davidson in 1987 to fill her current position, Griffith served as the Registrar for Wingate College for
ten years. Griffith will continue to serve as Vice-President for Academic Affairs during the term.

See "Ross" on page 3

INSIDE

NEWS: Kappa Sigma sponsors MADD run. See page 2.

OPINIONS: David Smyth takes a trip to Mount Mourne. Go along with him. See page 5.

The Birks are back and better than ever before. See page 6.

SPORTS: Women's Tennis tops Winthrop. See page 8.

Spears excels at Wake meet. See page 8.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
