THE DAVIDSONIAN

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor
TOM PRICE - Associate Editor
KEVIN MILLER - News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB - Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

DEREK COUNTS - Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE - Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH - Circulation Manager

Sensationalism Is No Solution

It is sadly ironic that our present unrest has flared smack in the middle of Solidarity Week. Right at the
time when we are trying to build some semblance of unity in our disparate cultures on the Davidson campus, allegations
are flying that some members of our community have long been acting in a spirit contrary to anything solidifying. We
do not like to see Davidson ripped apart like this and we recognize problems in the way some of us
have gone about rooting out violators.

Visiting Assistant Professor A.T. Miller’s letter of February 6 irresponsibly lists wholesale rumors as fact against the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity. (Had we published such material the Media Board would have prosecuted our dismissal faster than we could say, “Hey,
First Amendment.”) Without bothering to check his sources or facts, Miller has maligned an entire group of people just for
their association with a few transgressors. Other flyers circulated around campus have implicitly but without factual basis associated SAE with
attacks on F.L.A.G. Meanwhile, though, SAE has not done enough to cooperate and make public what they know about the
actions of some of its individual members. In this sense, they have dug their own hole and need to climb
out. The fraternity is not entirely blameless for its image problems.

At any rate, many of the problems so often discussed this week stem from individuals. Students who harass other students
should be dealt with under the Code of Responsibility. Serious physical beatings should be investigated under any circumstances, no matter
who instigated the confrontation. Facts should be made public as necessary in order to quell rumors. But wholesale indictments of
an entire house are out of line when only a few people are responsible for a great deal of damage.
The Davidsonian urges that we find out exactly what has happened and then let SAE mend itself from within. The
Trustees’ establishment of a committee to investigate incidents on Patterson Court is a good first step. SAE is a group
that needs to reassess what they wish to tolerate in their own ranks. Sensationalist gestures from misinformed parties will not
help.

Managing Editor Emeritus
Editor Emeritus

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our rather
poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

SAE President Responds to Charges

To the Editor:

As a student of Davidson College, as well as a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, I would like to
take this opportunity to inform the college family about SAE. In light of the events of the past week, I
think now is an excellent time for all of us to reach an understanding on a number of issues that
have been circulating around campus. Some of these issues are considered ‘delicate’ and ‘touchy.’ Nevertheless, they need to be addressed,
head-on, so we can quell the rumors and exaggerations that presently accompany them.

As a house, the brothers of SAE have experienced some difficult moments this year. During the past months, we have
made some mistakes and I would like to acknowledge and confront them now. I hope that by identifying them we
will be able to reach logical, peaceful solutions that not only will benefit our house, but the...other houses on Patterson
Court, and the entire Davidson Community as well. During the fall semester, we printed a series of party posters that
offended several female students. After hearing their concerns, we unanimously decided as a house to have all future posters approved
by either the president or the vice president before they were distributed on campus. This system was working well from
our standpoint until recently, when a poster was distributed on campus the day of one of our parties that again
offended a majority of the people who read it. This poster was the only one that was not previously approved
by the president. As president of SAE, I formally apologize and accept full responsibility.

Also during the fall semester, after a confrontation at a closed date function between several brothers of SAE and a
freshman who was not invited to the party, an anonymous phone call was made. The individual was not at the
SAE house when he placed this call, nor were his actions condoned by the members of our house. He was
acting purely on his own accord. Recently, the young man who made the call came forward to be recognized. Knowing
that he used poor judgment, he also apologized to the house for his actions.

On Tuesday of last week (February 4, 1992), an anonymous letter was read to the women of Rusk House that
made several accusations toward SAE. To date, I have not been allowed to see a copy of the letter. The
allegations, as I understand them, are similar to the ones made in another letter, written on February 6, by a
visiting professor of history, Mr. A.T. Miller. Each of the charges made in this letter was inaccurate in some fashion,
and I would like to address them. The first accusation says “two undergraduate women were assaulted at the SAE House
the night of self-selection.” In addressing this charge, it is noteworthy to point out that the two women involved wish
to remain anonymous. However, they have spoken with a brother of SAE about the incident. They told him that they
were walking between Kappa Sigma and Warner Hall when a campus police officer advised them to go inside a house
because they had alcoholic beverages in—

See "Lilly" on page 9

Rybiski Addresses Campus Tensions

To the Editor:

Stop. Look around. Stand up and say wait a minute. Before factions break away from (or are forced into isolation
from) this community, fundamentally altering our situation, we need to ask some questions of ourselves as individuals. The way for
the Davidson Community to heal its wounds requires a large degree of sensitivity to everyone—even those who you completely disagree
with. There is a simple reason for this. In order for real dialogue and change to occur, we must understand
each other, and we must not be closed-minded to other ideas, solutions, and points of view.

That is why wars happen like World War I, II, and the Cold War. That is the direction many disputes
and inequities in our country are headed, and, it would seem, that is the course we are taking on this
campus as well. Ask yourself, is reprimanding SAE the answer to the campus’ problems or will it simply serve to
exacerbate the situation? The answer ought to jump out at you. There are few groups on campus who have not
at one time or another faced insensitivity in their ranks. Therefore, isolating the insensitive at SAE from campus activities will,
first of all, not address the campus-wide problem at all, and secondly, it will only serve to remove any chance
of reaching those people through education at all. This is a destructive, not constructive, policy. We are not defending the
individuals that were involved in fighting, or those who have written flyers, but the fact is that incidents like these
and others happen elsewhere on campus—SAE has no monopoly on insensitive people.

What we need to do is talk (not with accusations) about these incidents with those who are involved. Where violations
of the Davidson Code of Responsibility or Honor Code or worse occur, we need to know about them (respecting the
defendant’s right to secrecy), so that we can address persistent problems. Clearly, most of us are interested in one goal:
A—

See "Rybiski" on page 8
