THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

UNCC Has the Answers in 95-85 Win Over Davidson

By Bruce Balestier

An uncharacteristically fast-paced offense helped Davidson to 56% shooting and a competitive contest with 20th-ranked UNCC Saturday night, but rebounding and free-throw shooting were the difference in the 49ers’ 95-85 victory before more than 4,000 at Belk Arena. The Wildcats shot 60% from the line (7-15 in the second half) and were outrebounded by a 41-28 margin.

Davidson coach Bob McKillop departed from the deliberate offensive style he usually favors and was pleased with the results. “The fact that we pushed the ball got us into early offense, and got us [quickly] into our set,” he said.

Point guard Frank Harris, in particular, benefitted from the blistering early pace; several times Harris scored on running bank shots in the paint, as the ‘Cats forged a 25-25 tie with 9:59 left in the half. Harris’s jumper with 5:19 to go in the half brought Davidson within one at 34-33 before UNCC made their decisive run. Capitalizing on the ‘Cats’ poor shot selection and rebounding, the 49ers outscored Davidson 15-5 over the final 5:19 of the period to take a 49-38 halftime lead.

The deficit stood at 58-47 with 16:17 to play when the Wildcats put together a sustained surge. Janko Narat began a 14-5 run with a backdoor cut for a layup and ended it with a running bank shot on the fast break, as Davidson pulled to within 63-61. As usual, though, UNCC had the answer, and, as usual, senior guard Henry Williams provided it. His three-point shot gave the 49ers a 68-61 lead and ended the Davidson spurt with just under eight minutes left.

With the Wildcats forced to foul to stop the clock, Williams buried four free throws during the final 51 seconds to preserve the UNCC victory and finished with 26 points. McKillop was unequivocal in his assessment of the game. “There’s no doubt in my mind,” he said, “that it was [UNCC’s] work on the glass that won the game.” The 49ers’ 41-28 rebounding edge included an 11-2 bulge on the offensive boards.

Missed foul shots also hurt Davidson. The Wildcats’ 7-15 second-half performance at the line took away numerous chances to set up full-court pressure to try to create turnovers. Still, there were plenty of bright spots in the loss. Harris atoned for a one-point (0-7 FG), four-turnover performance in Davidson’s initial meeting with UNCC January 21. He scored 17 points, passed for six assists, and committed just one turnover in Saturday’s rematch. Narat scored a career-high 25 points, including 4-4 free throws. He now has connected on 19 straight at the foul stripe. Detlef Musch was very effective, except at the free throw line (8-14 FT), in scoring 18 points. Jason Zimmerman added 15.

Most of all, Davidson proved that it can play competitively with a top-20 team. UNCC coach Jeff Mullins told McKillop after the game that “if you can get those guys playing that well the rest of the way, you’ll be in great shape.”

‘Cats Convert in Clutch in Two Point Win at Samford

By Bruce Balestier

Before Davidson’s game with Samford January 28 in Birmingham, AL, head coach Bob McKillop said he had a feeling that things were about to turn for the better. It turned out he was right. Down five points with 2:20 left to the Bulldogs, the Wildcats scored the final seven points of the game, the last two on Jason Zim-Zimmerman’s 15-foot jumper with 11 seconds to play, and claimed a confidence-boosting 61-59 win. Davidson’s chances for victory looked somewhat dim when Samford’s Bubba Sheafe dribbled the length of the floor through Wildcat pressure and dunked for a 59-54 Bulldog advantage with 2:20 to play. But Davidson showed more gumption down the stretch. Janko Narat drained a three-pointer with 2:08 left to cut the lead to 59-57, and, just over a minute later, Detlef Musch posted up and hit a baseline jumper to tie the game. On the ensuing Samford possession, Narat stole the ball, and the ‘Cats took possession with 50 seconds left. They ran an isolation play for Zimmerman, and he came off a screen to hit a 15-foot jump shot for a 61-59 lead with 11 seconds to go. Despite some blatant cheating by the clock operator, the Bulldogs could not score before the buzzer.

The ‘Cats got off to their signature sluggish start in the game. Sheafe scored 10 of the first 11 and 12 of the first 16 Samford points as the Bulldogs mounted a 19-7 lead. But Davidson held Samford without a field goal for nearly 10 minutes late in the half, got back in the game with a 17-3 run and settled for a 26-25 halftime edge. In the second half, the Davidson lead grew as large as nine points (38-29) before Samford surged back into contention. Narat paced Davidson with 22 points. Zimmerman added 17 and Musch 12 and nine rebounds.

Call Bruce and Write For Sports It Would Be A Great Idea

Women's Basketball Loses War Against Spartanburg Methodist
By Jennifer Roos

Davidson lost the war with Spartanburg Methodist, but they won the battle. The Wildcats traveled to Spartanburg, S.C. Wednesday night to face the Lady Pioneers, and lost 76-52 in their most physical game of the season. With head coach John Filar out with an illness, men’s assistant coach Justin Kuralt took over the coaching duties. The officials allowed the game to get out of hand, and as a result tempers flared on both teams. Skye Macleod and Jennifer Roos both fouled out while no one from the opposition did. Several Davidson players were constantly checked inside the lane throughout the game. The type of physical play disrupted the Wildcats' offensive momentum in the first half. Davidson was limited to one shot per offensive possession due to Spartanburg’s rebounding edge. The Wildcats led early on by six, but the Pioneers’ rebounding edge and the Cats’ poor shooting finally caught up with them, and Spartanburg took the lead for good.

Don't Forget that Special Someone On Valentine's Day!! Let Campus Flowers & Gifts Meet All Of Your Valentine's Needs Local-State-Nationwide FLOWERS SAY IT BEST - Roses - Bouquets - Balloons Gift Baskets ALL OCCASIONS 1-800-828-5459 (Please have a major credit card when calling)

The Pioneers led 46-23 at the half. The Wildcats came back in the second half behind the strong inside play of Faison Nuckolls and Skye Macleod and the outside shooting of Kristin Solsrud, and they played even with the Pioneers. They lost the game, which was as rough as a war, but the way they came together under Coach Kuralt as a team was impressive. Instead of folding like a collapsible chair without Coach Filar, the ‘Cats were just as enthusiastic and played with the same intensity, so they won the battle.

SUMMER WORK
Make $300+ Per Week
Gain Valuable Business Experience
Need to work at home this summer? We have opportunities nationwide! For more information, call 615/391-2806.
A Division of The Southwestern Company