Che Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, MARCH 30, 1992 NUMBER 21

Photo by Lillian Roe
Adriana Tavernise reads a poem at the "Take Back the Night" program Wednesday evening in the 900 Room.

"Take Back the Night" Rally Meets to Raise Student Awareness of Sexual Assault

By Sara Carlson and Jonathan Harris

On Wednesday, March 25, over two hundred people gathered in the 900 Room of the Union at “Take Back the
Night,” an awareness rally designed to educate the Davidson community about issues of sexual assault and to empower all assault
survivors. Adriana Tavernise, a junior English major from Northern Virginia, introduced the event with a reading of excerpts from “Rape
Poem,” by Marge Piercy. Ms. Tavernise, a rape survivor herself, urged the audience to respect the gravity of the issues
about to be presented. She invited those present to reflect on the courage necessary to speak.

“What really makes me angry?” the first speaker demanded, “That nobody ever told me I was right. Nobody ever took
me aside and said, girl, your body is yours to love and care for. You cannot entrust it to anyone
else.” She described in detail the consequences of sexual assault in her own life, emphasizing the silence that surrounded and
still surrounds the act of rape. She concluded by saying, “I have changed. I have a voice now, and I’m
speaking. No one can take me away from me ever again.”

In sharing her own experience with sexual assault, Krista Richter counseled other survivors to remember that they are not alone
in their pain. Ms. Richter, a senior music major, performed two inspirational songs by pop artist Amy Grant. Laura Preuss,
a survivor of attempted rape by a Davidson student, bravely described her attack. Though she prosecuted through the Dean of
Students office, she and her attacker occasionally meet accidentally, as he still attends school here. Through her testimony, she hoped
to make others aware that sexual assault exists at Davidson.

The final speaker, a man who feels victimized by sexual assault, described his incapacity to bridge the distance between himself
and a woman survivor whom he loves. He feels that her assault makes it impossible for her to love freely.
He criticized a society which often persecutes the victim more thoroughly than it does the attacker. In closing, he said
that all people are affected negatively by sexual assault. All the speakers reiterated that a survivor has the right to
be angry and to be heard no matter what her reputation, dress, or sobriety at the time of the attack.
As they exited the Union, each person who had been sexually assaulted was given a candle to light in a
show of solidarity.

See "Take Back" on page 4

Longtime Union Director and Davidson Graduate, Dies

By Kevin Miller

Colin Shaw Smith, director of Davidson’s Student Union for over 30 years, died Sunday, March 22 in his home in
Davidson. Smith, a mainstay in Davidson for most of his life, was also known for his traveling family magic act,
Smoky Sorcery. A graduate of Davidson in 1939, Smith worked his way through college with his gift of magic. In
1952, he became Davidson’s first Union Director and coordinator of student activities, a job at which he remained for over
thirty years because, he said, “no one ever offered me another job.” In 1961, Smith’s family act went on the
road for 10 years.

CCRL, Dean of Students Review Second Version of Proposed Alcohol Policy

By Tom Koonce and Tom Price

Currently, the Committee on Campus and Religious Life and Dean of Students Will Terry are reviewing a revised version of
the alcohol policy which was presented by Dean Terry two weeks ago. Like the first version, this new policy is
still open to “review, amendment, and suggestions.” The CCRL will work with Terry to compose a policy that is as
simple as possible. The final version of the new alcohol policy will be sent to President Kuykendall for approval after
being passed by the CCRL. Kuykendall will then send out the proposal to the Trustees who will make the final
decision on the policy in a meeting on April 23. This past Thursday night onlyThirty-three students showed up to discuss
the alcohol policy in a forum sponsored by the SGA. A panel that consisted of Eric Rosenbach, freshmen (and rising
sophomore) class president; Ann Todd, Union president; David Wright, PCC chairman; Cris Edmonston, chairman SGA ad-hoc committee on the alcohol
policy; and Alice Spivey, member of the CCRL, answered questions from students about the new policy. SGA President Anthony Foxx
mediated the forum. Sophomore Will Canu commented that Patterson Court is not the problem. He stated his belief that the
problem is that there aren’t a whole lot of social options at Davidson. Canu also asked the panel whether or
not this might lead to a dry campus. Members of the panel responded that this would not happen because the
Trustees realize a dry campus wouldn’t work. Wright mentioned the need for student support and talked of the low turnout
at the forum. A panel member said, “What would help us is good ideas to reach the objective.”

See "Alcohol" on page 3

Speakers Report on Reform and Relief Efforts in Nicaragua
By: Will Boye

Last Thursday, the Dean Rusk program welcomed three distinctive speakers. Reverend Bill Callahan, Ketxu Amazua, and Esperanza Cruz de Cabrera
spoke in the 900 Room about today’s state of affairs in Nicaragua. Focusing upon the work of the Quest for
Peace organization in the impoverished country, the speakers illustrated the need for peaceful relations between the United States and Nicaragua
by presenting those conditions of living that continue to demand attention.

Reverend Bill Callahan, National Coordinator for the Quest for Peace organization, began the evening by providing a brief background on
the group. In 1984, when the war between the Sandinistas and the Contras was gaining momentum, Callahan and several others
worked for a temporary program of emergency medical service. In 1985, however, after the U.S. administration launched a $27 million
campaign towards the toppling of the Sandinista government, Callahan established an organization designed to raise an equal amount of money
in opposition to this foreign policy—one that would work towards friendship and peace with the Nicaraguan people. Reaching $20 million
in a successful fund-raising campaign, Quest for Peace continued to solicit aid for its cause, following its first efforts.

See "Nicaragua" on page 4

Former Davidson Professor Reports and Predicts on Post Cold War Future
By John David Semones

On Tuesday, March 24, the Dean Rusk program sponsored former Davidson Political Science professor Dr. Harold Ford in the 900
Room. Ford’s talk, “Tomorrow’s World and the Enormity of its Hazards,” focused on the present state of the world and
included some of his own predictions for the future.

After teaching at Davidson from 1955-57, Dr. Ford began a 30-year career with the CIA. In 1989 he won an
award for his book Estimated Intelligence. Most recently he testified against the nomination of Bob Gates as head of the
CIA and against new legislation to revamp the CIA. As opposed to the first half of this century, Ford said,
“There is no longer the relative certainty of what we are up against.” However, Ford did cite the former Soviet
Union as a major target for world dilemma.

“The White House’s task is a necessary one even though the Cold War is over. The former Soviet Union is
near Beirutism, and that is anarchy.” Ford expressed concern that the West doesn’t have billions of dollars to pour into
the region.

See "Ford" on page 4

INSIDE

Smith also served as president of the local ring of the International Brotherhood of Magicians and as the master of
ceremonies and magician for the USO during that time.

See "Smith" on page 3

NEWS: Mele Named Humanities Center Fellow. See Page 2.
OPINIONS: D.T. Gets Egged in Intra-Fraternal Battle. See Page 8. Smyth's "Artifice in Wooing.” See Page 8.
ARTS: Stones In OmniMax Reviewed. See Page 9.
SPORTS: Baseball Wins Two from Charleston-Southern. See Page 12.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
