CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor  
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor  
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor  

The Davidsonian  
THE DAVIDSONIAN  
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992  

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief  
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor  
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor  
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor  
SEAN LIND - News Editor  
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor  
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor  
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist  
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager  

Founded in 1914  
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"  

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager  
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager  
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager  

A Protest Against Apathy  
(We Knew You Wouldn't Read Another Spike Editorial or anything else)

The point we are attempting to make here is that if you have a concern or criticism, this is one of your major forums to express it. The Davidsonian is an outlet paid for by you and run by your peers for your use and enjoyment. A few weeks ago we asked for your opinions on the upcoming visit of Spike Lee. We solicited in the editorial and with flyers throughout campus for your thoughts. The response was pitiful. Perhaps we are missing the things you want to see in your campus newspaper. If so, we can't fix it without your input. So let us hear what you want to see in it. Help us help you address your concerns or highlight your accomplishments. Give us a call or drop us a line, we'd love to hear from you.

Letters

Reilly Attacks Community Apathy

To the Editor,

I’m writing in regard to the disappointing turnout by students and faculty alike at the October 15 forum featuring two U.S. Representative candidates from our area. Both Rory Blake, candidate from North Carolina’s 9th district, and Melvin Watt of the 12th district attended the affair, but sadly found only 15 students, one administrator, and no faculty members in the auditorium.

My first reaction was to attack the student body and the faculty for their apparent apathy. Thus, as I apologized to the candidates, I couldn’t help but take a shot at both groups. However, I thought it only fair that I should attempt to understand why so few people evidenced any interest Thursday night. Clearly, the main reason that students gave me for failing to attend the forum was that they needed to study for their mid-term exams. As a Davidson student, I too know the difficulty of the curriculum. Yet, many students who were there said they needed to study. These over-burdened students had their priorities in the right order. My father, a high school teacher, often said to his students, “Never let school get in the way of your education.” This incident exemplifies exactly what he meant.

By no means should the faculty escape my comments. We put a notice in every faculty mailbox in Chambers and virtually covered the halls with signs; we did not fear redundancy. And I’m reluctant to accept the argument that professors were also distracted by mid-terms. Professors are busiest after mid-terms — while correcting papers — not during the exam period. So what’s really going on here? Should I be assuming that people failed to attend as a result of conflicting priorities? Or were they simply uninterested? Maybe apathy is even devouring places where political activity was once an explicit goal: the college campus. If this is the case, I challenge each of you...To decide whether apathy benefits both your personal intellectual development and society as a whole. And if you, too, view apathy as detrimental, I urge you to help diminish its spread on campus or in the community.

Sincerely,
Mark Reilly ‘95

Students Defend Gullan's Character

To the Editor,

In the last issue of The Davidsonian, a letter appeared expressing disapproval of Bill Gullan’s remarks at the Young Democrats vs. Young Republicans debate. Bill’s comments and jokes were made only to ridicule the alleged promiscuity of Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Clinton. Gullan’s introductory joke clearly addressed a vital issue — Bill Clinton’s character. Bill’s comment was meant as a denouncement of Clinton’s questionable lifestyle, not as “a massive negative generalization of the women present.” When a distraught member of the audience expressed concern over his joke, Bill sincerely apologized for any harm done.

Certainly, to debase Bill Gullan’s character and integrity based on the misinterpretation of a joke is both unreasonable and absurd. Granted, Bill Gullan angered some people in the audience the night of the debate. Bill did not, however, fuel this resentment through ad hominem attacks on those disagreeing with him. Those that became angry did so because they forsook reason and embraced their tender emotions. This was evident to any calm observer of the debate. Those offended became enraged not because of Bill’s joke; instead, they were confounded by Bill’s ability to articulate the benefit of the very ideas they personally abhor. Not a person witnessing the forum could doubt Gullan’s extraordinary ability to debate. Bill Gullan should be congratulated rather than condemned for his stellar performance that night.

Chris Holder ‘95
Sara Long ‘96
Chris Martin ‘95
Danny Newman ‘95

Grubb Supports Christian Campaign

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor,

As a Christian, it grieves me to see our nation slowly deteriorate in its Biblical values. I know there is nothing we can do to stop non-Christians from supporting such moral abominations as: homosexuality (Lev. 20:13), abortion-on-demand (Ps. 139:13-16), and the removal of Judeo-Christian values from our Constitution (Lev. 18:26). This painful fact is truly a disgrace. But what really perplexes me is that many Christians are actually supporting these immoral actions through their choices for government officials. Shouldn’t we ask what Christian values candidates hold instead of whether they are Democrats or Republicans? After all, isn’t this a nation “indivisible under God”? I hear many people talk about the economic situation in this election. Does human life (in the case of abortion) not take precedence over money in our pockets? I can only pray that the good people of the country I love will not make this horrible mistake when they “pull the lever” on election day.

Sincerely,
Chris Grubb ‘96