ya 8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992

Tony's Ramblings... On Why We Would

Dean Rusk, Patricia Daniels Cornwell, Dean Rusk, John Kuykendall, and THE POLITICAL STATESMAN DEAN RUSK!!! did: from front to back. (rim shot) Nevertheless, the anonymous note having the heaviest course load in America? I’m not this”-type — conversations — he spoke when all of a sudden we all stood up and unanimously cheered. The man had great vocal chords.

Actually, things were going great between Stephen and me until he slipped in the fact he was getting a cool 4.9578 (x 10°) GPA in high school and said that he probably wouldn’t be able to do that at Davidson because it specifically states in the Code of Responsibility: Thou canst not get a 4.0, right between the lines Thou shalt not sprayeth shaving cream in thy neighbor's open ears. Is a 4.0 that difficult to get? Yes, but people have done it. In fact, I know many people who have 4.0’s and they are wonderful people who play quality tennis, dive in Olympic-style pools, speak in complete sentences, play very competitive football, shoot archery with the pros, and cross-country ski down the Himalayas, all without even leaving the comfort of their rooms.

The thing is, many of us could have been getting an easy 4.0 at a state school (Wisconsin Bison College) without even lifting a finger (although Cow Dung 101 does require manual dexterity). But we're at Davidson.

Spike Lee and His Legacy Here at Ol' Davidson College

Spain Disagrees With View That Lee Visit Was a Waste

In the wake of Spike Lee’s visit here on October 21, only one column addressed his presence on our campus. More surprisingly, in the issues following his talk, I could not locate one letter to the editor in which anything approximating an opinion on Spike Lee could be found, despite the fact that the News section had written lengthy articles before and after Lee came. While it is true that two faculty members wrote letters a week before Lee arrived, only Scott Windham and Deidra Montague published any response on the subject. I was convinced that Lee’s discussion would generate endless debate in these pages. Perhaps the impending election stole Lee’s thunder, but I really don’t know. If there’s one thing of which I am certain, Lee’s presence on our campus did not go unnoticed... Many of us waited outside of Chambers for an hour and a half while the fire department looked for some kind of explosive device that never actually materialized, thank God. And we followed Lee to Johnson Gym, many of us sitting on the floor for another hour and a half. For a few days following his talk, I heard lotsof discussion about Spike Lee, but sadly, no one chose to publish their opinions, and quickly, the subject faded into old news. Personally, I enjoyed seeing and hearing Spike Lee. As Diedra and Scott pointed out, some people were disappointed that Lee had not been more controversial and that the money (somewhere in the neighborhood of $15,000 according to unsubstantiated rumor) had been poorly spent. I disagree with both sentiments. Any time a speaker can draw such a large number of students, the money has not been wasted. I think it’s worth asking, would some people suggest that if Lee had incited a riot, the amount of money paid him could be more easily justified? I think there are two dynamics at work here. First, Spike Lee’s visit encouraged and fostered a good amount of discussion, but people were not moved to spend an hour formulating a written opinion to submit to this paper. Second, by the time the paper came out the following Monday, Spike Lee had been condemned to some distant remove by tests and papers and George Bush and Bill Clinton and... whatever. In the future, I hope people will realize that the Opinions pages are everyone’s forum and that we need some serious commentary once in a while, because, quite frankly, these pages can foster a degree of banality that serves no one, and that’s everyone’s fault.

Frampton Rules...

Scary, I'll Tell You Scary

The wind whispers softly but sadistically. Heavy footsteps pound the forest floor. Overhead the leaves rustle and cast strange shadows over the panicked, blonde co-ed as she runs for the safety of something, anything... Behind her a man, machete in hand, follows her walking with long but determined steps. The music begins to shriek louder and louder, “Kill, kill, kill...” She looks back for her pursuer, pushing off the trees as she runs into them. Suddenly, as if placed there for a reason, a log lays across her path. She trips, slamming into the ground. She stumbles up again but a hand grabs her foot and she trips. She rolls onto her back, trying to move on, screaming with the horror of a well-dubbed studio recording. Her shirt is torn, her knees dirty. His hand raises in the air, the machete gleaming in the moonlight, the blood dripping off of it. It falls fast and furious, decapitating her in one swing.

The dream is always the same. Every Thursday the twelfth I wake up in a cold sweat, the blonde's death on my mind. Undoubtedly, it is an amalgam (remember the usher in Parenthood) of all the Friday the Thirteenths and Halloweens that I have seen. But it isn’t what really bothers me about Friday the 13th. What bothers me is that people get scared by stupid things like superstitions. Now I understand doing something like turning your socks inside out twice before you put them on (it keeps you from getting warts on your feet) or spraying Fantastik onto your new notebook to remind the Note Fairy to help you take good notes. But, I simply don’t understand what is so scary about Friday the 13th.

Now if you want to get scared, think about the possibility of running across Oprah Winfrey naked in a field of daisies running toward you in great leaps and bounds screaming, “Honeycakes, honeycakes...” That would be scary. Or how about waking up with parts of a cow scattered throughout your room. But the most frightening thing I can imagine is being sucked into a black hole. I mean what’s in those things? For all we know they could be a portal to another universe where toe-cheese is used as a perfume. Or people wash their faces with a mix of rotten pumpkin and fromunda cheese. This thought scares me. (Has anyone else noticed that I have been writing really gross things lately, maybe I should see someone.) These things are really scary. For some reason people don’t recognize the validity of these fears. Instead, they cower at the possibility of breaking mirrors or walking under ladders. Then there is this fear of strange numbers like 666 or 3 or 13. Those aren’t scary numbers. 3 trillion dollars is a scary number. (Well, actually it’s an amount, but so what?) Oh, and what about pi. Do you know some idiot took the time to write down two volumes of a...

See "Rules" on page 9