8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

Don't Tread On Me: Tom Norwood. Davidson Misses the Mark

This year Davidson is busy restructuring in an attempt to make the campus the Utopia it once was. I am
pleased to see that the changes in College policy concerning alcohol, freshmen, and the banishment of SAE have made our
beloved school almost perfect. The abuse of alcohol has stopped, and students are now devoting their full attention to academics.
Racism and the harassment of women are ancient memories, and freshmen are learning that here at Davidson we are all
just one big happy family.

Actually, here at Davidson as Ice-T would say, it ain’t like that. Once again Davidson is so far out of
touch with the majority of students that these attempts at change have flat out failed. First, the new alcohol policy
has had little or no effect on the amount of alcohol consumed by students. Students are still drinking, and they
always will. The parties have simply moved to the apartments and off-campus. Freshmen are not allowed to be “entertained by
upperclassmen off-campus” until October 5. On the surface, keeping freshmen away from these parties seems like a great idea, but
upon further examination one can see that this idea only looks good on paper. I recently asked a freshman what
he did at night because he could not go to parties. He said that the freshmen sit in their rooms
and play drinking games like the Century Club (a shot of beer every minute for a hundred minutes). If that
doesn’t bother you there is something wrong with you.

Racism and the harassment of women have not stopped because of the banishment of SAE. Rebel flags still hang in
dorm rooms, and behind-closed-doors racism is thriving. Guys are still getting drunk and saying things that they shouldn’t to women.
Kicking SAE off campus might have made the College look good, but again it did nothing to solve the problem.
Although it is easy to scapegoat a group, these problems are individual problems. Racism and bad attitudes toward women are
learned at home, not in a fraternity. Again Davidson, you’ve missed by a mile.

Lastly, freshmen do not allow yourselves to be brainwashed by the College. Every year they tell a wonderful story about
how freshmen hallmates are living together as seniors even though they are in different eating houses and fraternities. I’m not
saying that it is not important to know a wide variety of people, but it is only natural to find
a group you like and spend most of your time with them. For example, a classic complaint I hear is
that because black students eat together at dinner they are reverse racist. Wrong! It’s not racist that they choose to
sit together. They sit together because they share common interests, which is the exact reason I sit with my friends.
Don’t ever let anyone tell you that spending a majority of your time with one group is wrong.

Well, I have rambled on for too long. Until next week, remember to be true to yourself.

If You Don't Like This It's Due to the Lack of Barley and Hops In Your Diet
By Casey Otis and Rick Thurmond

Welcome back to Dryson, I mean Davidson. The Davidson administration, or whoever is in control, decided that Davidson needs to
destroy that awful party school image and once again become an academic institution. These people feel that Davidson’s integrity has
been marred by that whopping one-star rating in Playboy magazine. As a result, they intend to push the academic rating
higher than the price of Heineken. Their solution for this grave problem is the new alcohol policy. It’s possible, though,
that this policy is simply a covert operation to alleviate the parking problem. Then again, maybe they just want to
screw us. Seriously, though, this will give us a chance to really get to know our hallmates, even if they
are a bunch of losers. We will also get the opportunity to learn every nook and cranny of the back
of our doors. Hell, with all this free time on their hands, i.e. no parties, maybe more people will become
dorks (like us) and write a real column. On the downside, though, the total lack of parties involving free beer
will make it even harder for us to scope for freshmen girls. Hell, it was pretty hard before.

Since we are still on the subject of the alcohol policy, (which should give us enough material until we graduate,
if we graduate) let’s applaud those men and women in blue (and red) who handed out an outstanding 150 tickets
the first week. We know it’s early, but with a little practice, y’all can buy some real cars! Of course,
the college could be doing us a favor. By shoving us into the outside world, they are forcing us to
interact (party) with different types of people. There’s Bubba at the Pub, Biff and Buffy at Duke, and various neighbors
in the side streets of Davidson. At least no more Queenies will be coming here for parties, because there won’t
be any.

The alcohol policy is not the only tradition that has been changed this year. That’s right, no more exclaiming, “Golly,
that tastes good!” while eating a B&E. But let’s look at the positive side. Colders 29 is still eight bucks
a case. In the long run, more like the marathon, we really do think everybody will be a little more
thankful for those extra parking spaces on the weekend. And the Pub will appreciate the business. Maybe, though, some good,
besides the extra parking spaces, will come of this after all. Perhaps a new sense of social harmony will develop.
Perhaps we will soon see SAEs and Sig Eps embracing. Yeah, and Gilligan will get off that damn island.

Your Honor System
By Matt Bumstead

Upon entering Davidson, every one of you signed a statement in which you bound yourself to live under the auspices
of the Davidson College Honor Code. Upperclassmen quickly came to see (as the freshmen soon will)that it is neither difficult
nor onerous to live under the Code; rather, it is a privilege that enables us to live more freely and
openly. Few students can disagree that the Honor Code is the cornerstone of the college community, and that its smooth
operation is essential to the type of life and interrelations we enjoy. Yet there is one aspect of the Honor
System that has often been viewed by many students with a great deal of apprehension; they feel uneasy about the
secretive or, at least, unnoticed workings of the judicial end of the system under the jurisdiction of the Honor Council.
Whether or not the present system of an elected Council composed of students who serve from the time of election
until the end of their college careers is the most effective and the fairest way to operate is a question
that has been

See "Honor" on page 9

Liberal Continued from page 6

a proven economic stimulator; it encourages investment, home buying, real estate and stock market investment, and small business starts. All
this means jobs, less unemployment and welfare recipients, more taxpayers, and more revenue. Combine this with controlled spending and you’ve
got your balanced budget and eventually deficit reduction. Increasing taxes on business will stifle growth, cost jobs, and businesses will
pass the misery on to the consumer, equaling inflation. Remember Carter?

First of all, let me say that man (inclusive) is the primary species on this planet. That fact does not
warrant the mistreatment of our environment; however, when you say that a subspecies of owl is more important than 30,000
American jobs, some of which will be given the duty of replanting those forests, you have crossed the line of
humanitarianism into pantheism. Did you know that tribal natives, hired out to build hundreds of wood and thatched housing for
“Earth Summit” delegates, chopped down hundreds of acres of Brazilian forests for the materials? What is shameful is that with
the Biodiversity treaty these true hypocrites wanted to punish the U.S., who cleans up more pollution than any other country
in the world and hasn’t even the first rainforest. The last straw is the author’s paltry attempt at being unbiased.
Hey, it’s the Opinions page, say what you want, but I suggest such slanderous, whimsical articles be confined to a
comedy section.

Very sincerely, Thad Ellett

The Frampster Continued from page 7

faculty thing. Well, that is only two, but that’s because I can only think of two. (Yeah, I know what
I said about millions.) You know, all this talk about the million little scams going on here at Davidson brings
up an interesting point. We pay for this school, or at least close family members and people who think we
deserved scholarship money do. Point is, it is our school. So why are we subjected to the college’s latest whims,
like this new alcohol policy? I want an education from the school. I already have a personality. That was what
my parents did for me. Now let me make my own decisions. Anyway, doesn’t the Code of Responsibility say something
about creating responsible people with as few regulations as possible? (I’d quote, but I couldn’t find an actual copy of
the darn thing anywhere. Do you think they’re hiding it?) There are so many regulations involved with the new alcohol
policy no one can figure out. Not even the people who wrote the damn thing. Of course, that is because
there are 31 separate rules involved in the whole thing. The alcohol policy is longer than the Constitution and we
haven’t been able to completely figure that thing out in two hundred and some years. Jeez. Oh, well. Take it
easy.

Kirby Continued from page 7

in social situations and how idiotically we express ourselves. For example, why, and I refer more particularly, but not exclusively,
to the male student body, do we insist on punctuating our statements with the profoundly crude appellation “Dude” when we
talk to another person? Why, and I refer now almost absolutely to the aforementioned group, do we generally hold our
topics of discussion down to the colossally interesting subjects of women, sports, how foolish we acted last night while intoxicated,
and women? Why, and now I mean all of us, do we feel compelled to fit each thing we say
into a five-second period for fear that we will overrun our audience’s attention span? Why don’t we listen to each
other? I am not going to presume to have the answer to these most perplexing questions, because, for one thing,
I can’t seem to break these habits myself. Maybe we all watched a little too much Bugs Bunny, ate too
many Doritos, or sniffed too much Elmer’s as children—who’s to say? On the other hand, I do feel that with
a conscious effort on the part of all of us, we can plunge into that level called THE RELEVANCY ZONE
(at least a little more often), and the naive high school senior in all of us won't be so disappointed
when he or she graduates from college.
