8 Deep Thoughts: The Law According to Kirby

I have always had an acute interest in the law. I grew up with the idea that laws descended from
some immutable source in the heavens and that this being dictated what was right and wrong behavior. Slowly, I have
come to the realization that each society has its own laws which are influenced by a variety of things, and
the end result is not always a precept of righteous behavior.

In American society, the law is the Constitution. This document is useless, however, without a judicial body to interpret it.
These interpretations can vary from justice to justice, and often they contradict each other. Hence, what the law is for
a given situation is determined by a majority or consensus. We know from our history, though, that the majority is
not always right. Situational ethics, expediency, and personal bias all have ways of corrupting the majority’s ability to determine what
behavior is right and what is wrong. The Jim Crow laws provide an illustrative example of how far the law
of the majority can stray from what is right.

The irony of all of this is that as members of society, we are subject to the law of the
day despite our individual capacity for seeing its shortcomings. Thus, in certain situations, we are forced to obey unjust laws
and risk punishment for behaving justly. Such is the price of societal living.

This condition is not nearly so frustrating as dealing with the agent in society whose job it is to enforce
the law. Any institution or segment of society who upholds the law fulfills this role. For most of us, however,
this agent is the police. Many in the Davidson community face frustration with the police each time they go to
Patterson Court. The prospect that one might be given a ticket by another thinking person for possessing an alcoholic beverage,
despite the absence of any perceivable harm to anyone in doing so, has angered many on this campus at one
time or another. Even more frustrating is that the police officers charged with carrying out such a task so often
purport to be handing down justice.

In Black and White: What is Beautiful?

We’ve decided, in case you’re wondering, to reserve comment on Spike Lee until later. We want to hear the opinions
of other students, and we’re not sure we know enough about the man to say anything right now. (Do you?)
If you really want to get the also the view of society in general (that’s why these bodacious babes are
in the ads to begin with). To be beautiful you must have blonde hair, blue eyes, and all the other
accoutrements. It makes us wonder about all of the beautiful black women with all types of complexions (from very light
to very dark) with all types of hair texture and of all body shapes. These women are not recognized for
their natural beauty, and this has caused some of them—including some of our friends—to form a complex about their appearance.

Wouldn’t it be wonderful if more police officers judged the weight of infractions by their harm to others, rather than
carrying out their duty from the mindset, “Rules is rules.” Let me give you an example of how such behavior
on the part of the law enforcement community would benefit the rest of us. Suppose you are parked illegally. Assume
you have put your change into a meter, but your time has run out. A police officer approaches the scene
and determines whether your action is presently harming society. Now, if no other parking places were to be found, and
several cars or fire trucks or ambulances were circling the block looking for somewhere to put themselves, perhaps you would
be guilty of a crime. If you were parked in the only handicapped zone for miles, let’s say on top
of a handicapped person, then you would be subject to severe censure. In the absence of these or similar conditions,
however, the police officer would be forced to continue on his merry way.

This whole scenario is pure fantasy, of course. The reality is the police officer smiling as he or she leaves
a crisp envelope on the windshield in which to insert an ungodly sum of money. Our fate is thus sealed
by the uninspired upholding of rules, asinine, petty rules.self-image. To get the most out of his session here, try watching
his movies over fall break (if you haven’t already) or read something about him. In any case, hopefully his coming
here will spark useful debate. Notice we said useful: nothing will be accomplished if we Davidson people act like we
often do and scream and yell and complain.

Scott Windham & Deidra Montague

When you look through magazines that are written specifically for the black population, you see many ads with only black
women in them. But when you look through other magazines that have these same ads (same company, same product), there
is not a black person to be found. Why is it, do you suppose, that society considers white women the
essence of beauty? Oh sure, in commercials and in pageants you see the occasional black woman, but she is often
just a token. Much as Davidson puts a black person or two into every official, public-viewed photo, though you can
walk from Knox to Chambers without seeing a black person.

Try to keep an open mind or at least remain calm. Listen to others. This week’s article deals with society’s
views of beautiful women. What do you think of when you consider the ideal woman in a commercial or an
ad? We think many students think of the Kathy Ireland type—blond hair, electric eyes, unholy body. That bothers us, because
this is unfair to women who don’t get the recognition they deserve. Let’s take for instance fashion magazines. Most of
the time you only find one black woman in a group of fair-skinned women. Does this mean beauty does not
exist among black women? We think there’s an injustice in society, because there are many beautiful black women of all
complexions.

See "B&W" on page 9

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

Pithy Irreverence: I Like Baby Talk

I was talking to an 8-month-old the other day. His name was Robert. Bobby to his friends. Bobby was wearing
some little Osh-Kosh overalls with a red-and-yellow flannel shirt and a little cap tilted at a rather cocky angle on
top of his fuzzy little head. His toddler gut made his overalls bulge slightly.

Bobby was a hoot. His mom was somewhere else in the park, seeing what the dog was up to. She
left Bobby there to watch me. Little kids are often times funnier and wiser than us “adults.” And about 110%
cuter, too.

The problem with most grown-ups is that they can’t seem to understand what small children are saying. It’s not just
babble. It’s philosophy. Simple, deep, to the point. But we can’t handle it, so we teach little kids our ever-so-muddled
language and confuse the crap out of them, to bring them down to our level.

“So, smart guy,” you ask, “how do you understand what the tykes are saying?” It’s not just me. Think about
it. We all do. Ever been drunk, seen a beautiful girl, and tried to say, “Your eyes are like two
dreamy puddles reflecting the moonlight” and had it come out “Yo yeesh ra leeg da poogle re mooglish”? Ever seen
a kid toddle into the kitchen, see the cookie jar, and say, “Scree ya mo-mo-mo!” It’s the same thing. Except
the kid’s asking for candy. Baby-talk, drunkenese. Free speech. Open your mind. It’s fun.

So anyway, Bobby and I had a little talk. Man-to-man, you know. “As a representative of the tot generation, does
it bother you what all of us old farts are doing to your planet?” I asked. He thought for a
while, chewing on the top button of his shirt. Finally, he turned to me, with an I-need-some-Desitin look on his
face, and said, “Garly pfaff nuz!” “Yeah, I think so too. I’m about 110% sorry about that,” I said. “Who
you going to vote for?” “Bo-bokeenun-nun,” Bobby replied, smiling. “Me too,” I said. “How ‘bout them Braves?” “Boff gigi num-num,”
he said, confidently.

Bobby seemed to have all the answers, so I tried, “So... what do you think about women? Can you understand
‘em?” “No,” Bobby said. Bobby was wise beyond his year.

I was trying to think up a real stumper, and Bobby was gabbing with a bush, when his mom and
the dog showed up. Bobby broke off his talk with the azalea, squealed with joy, and jumped for the dog,
who he can torture with relative impunity. “Thanks for watching him,” said his mom. “No problem,” I said. I like
baby-talk.
