THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1992

WIRE!

Cafeteria Food Scam Reported

CORVALLIS, Ore. (CPS) - If you ask other students, the motive had to be financial - good taste certainly had
nothing to do with it. Police at Oregon State University have uncovered a scam involving 27 students who falsified computer
records to receive free food from campus food services.

Police allege that junior Rehan Ahmed Zakai, 23, who works in the student identification center, was the main instigator of
the scam that netted over $25,000 worth of university food over a one-year period, the school paper The Daily Barometer
reported.

Police believe Zakai entered the names of 27 students, including himself, into university records showing that they paid for a
university meal plan, when in reality they hadn’t. According to the Daily Barometer, 25 of the 26 other students have
confessed and all have agreed to repay the school’s food services and face criminal charges of first-degree theft or aggravated
first-degree theft.

Poster Touts Skiing and Studying

STOWE, Vt. (CPS) - Vermont’s governor recently revealed a slick new poster with a skiing theme to recruit students to
the state’s 23 public and private schools. Gov. Howard Dean displayed the poster at a press conference without apologies for
its recreational slant.

The poster, which lists the state’s public and private schools, read: “Vermont: It’s a Great Location for an Education. Want
to make tracks in your field of choice? Look to Vermont.” The poster features a student reading at her desk,
which has a computer on it. Behind her, colorfully-clad skiers can be seen on a steep slope, and her state-of-the-art
ski equipment is prominently featured.

Hood College Freezes Tuition

FREDERICK, Md. (CPS) - In contrast to the national trend of skyrocketing tuition costs, fees at Hood College will be
frozen for students entering the 1992-93 academic year. For the first time in 20 years, this private college for women
is holding firm on cost - tuition remains at $12,078, with room and board still at $5,675.

“It was a decision the board made to demonstrate their commitment to families paying the high cost of education,” said
Nancy Gillece, director of admissions. Though Hood officials will not know how the announcement will affect enrollment for 1992-93 until
the May 1 application deadline, Gillece said the feedback has been very positive.

“People appreciate this commitment,” added Gillece, who said that the school is not certain how many years the freeze will
last.

Henry Louis Smith Lecture

FRANK SHERWOOD ROWLAND
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE
OZONE DEPLETION AND THE GREENHOUSE EFFECT
TUESDAY, APRIL 7
7:30 PM
LOVE AUD.
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
SPONSORED BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC LECTURES

Keynote Speaker at Med Humes Discussion on the "Rights of Death"

By Casey Otis

On Wednesday, guest speaker Dr. George Keynote spoke on the topic “What are the Rights of Death?” as a continuation
of the Medical Humanities Series. Keynote is the chairman of bioethics at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation. He discussed the importance
of bioethics concerning the rites/rights of death. He stated, “times occur when families must make decisions between life and death
- literally.”

The program was highlighted by a half-hour VCR presentation called “No Heroic Measures.” The video presentation was a fictional case
study dealing with a woman who was nourished and treated through a nasal gastral tube. The woman’s niece wanted to
get a court order that ordered the nursing home to disconnect the machine and release her aunt from suffering. There
were a lot of “gray zones” in the case according to Keynote, and the question of “best interest” was the
most essential to him.

Before the presentation, Keynote raised three basic questions in reference to the case study: “Who do you find sympathy with?”,
“What is the moral question in this case?” and “What arguments are the most convincing?”. Keynote called the ordeal “a
judgment process of value assessment.” He also...stated that most medical procedures are subject to the pitfalls of ethics.” The presentation
was followed by a provocative question and answer session. Keynote asked the audience what would be best for all the
parties concerned, and difficult questions were asked on the ramifications of a decision. Keynote stressed that “unfortunately, everyone finds that
they will be challenged by the hardest decision in the world.” Keynote closed by saying that he believed that these
questions and his field need much more attention.

Kappa Sigma Sponsors Third Annual Run
By Kevin Griggs

Kappa Sigma Fraternity held its 3rd annual MADD run on Saturday, March 28. Sixty brothers and ten other volunteers relayed
a football 64 miles to Salisbury and back. Starting at 8:00 a.m. from the Davidson Town Green, the runners ran
one-mile legs on a route that included stops at the homes of the families of J.O. Reynolds and Patrick Virtue,
the two people to whom the run is dedicated. John Cook, this year’s organizer, hopes that this year’s run will
raise more than ever. “Since this is my last year as run organizer, I hope we can raise more money
than we have in the past and reach our goal of $3000,” he said. “The MADD run is a great
service project because it involves the house, the school, the community, the families, and MADD,” he said. Donations can still
be made by contacting John Cook at 896-6829. Checks should be made out to MADD - Rowan County Chapter.

Student Sign-ups For Faculty Committees
- CCRL
- EPC
- Minorities
- Media Board
- Library Comm.
- Pre-Management
- Public Lectures
- Intercollegiate Athletics Council
- Admissions and Financial Aid
- Finance, Personnel and Development
- Academic Uses for Computer
- International Education
- Women’s Concerns Comm.
- Auxiliary Services Council
April 6-8 in Chambers 102.

Ross Continued from page 1

next term. Williams announced that the college will conduct a national search for a Registrar and will attempt to fill
the position by spring of 1993. Neither Hasty nor Ross were available for comment.

Continued from page 1

As the leader of Textron, Dolan has enabled the company to compete on both the global and the domestic markets.
Textron, an aerospace, financial services, and commercial products company, has almost $9 million in revenues. The gift helps The Campaign
for Davidson, the five-year fundraising effort to raise endowment for faculty positions, student scholarships, academic resources, capital improvements, and annual
operating expenses, to $93.6 million raised toward the goal of $150 million by 1995.

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM
MOVIES at THE LAKE
ALL STEREO SOUND
3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00
A rockin' rooster! Rock-A-Doodle
Beethoven (com) 3:05, 5:05, 7:05, 9:05
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS 892-3841

Day Time Schedule
Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday | Saturday | Sunday
8:00 am - 10:30 am Announcement Board
10:30 am - 1:00 pm Class of 1992 Freshman Orientation | DCTV ever! | “Comet 1985” | Tatyana Malev Storytellers
| Kugelmass Episode | Announcement Board
1:00 pm - 7:00 pm Announcement Board
7:00 pm - 9:00 pm Class of 1992 Freshman Orientation | DCTV ever! | “Comet 1985” | Tatyana Manova Storytellers
| Announcement Board
9:00 pm - 10:00 pm Announcement Board
10:00 pm - 1:00 am BINGO! LIVE! BIG PRIZES | Kugelmass Episode | DCTV ever! | Tatyana Manova | Class
of 1992 Freshman Orientation | Announcement Board

CHANNEL 14 IN YOUR NEAREST LOUNGE OR SENIOR APARTMENT
