6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

Selection Continued from page 5

...age those whom they didn’t like from self-selecting their house. Oral encouragements (called by one student in 1980 “thinly disguised
bids”) became the rule in 1978, with active discouragements prohibited. Realism prevailed, though, and it became clear that the social
stigma of joining a house you were not wanted at overpowered the principles of self-selection. This is the current situation
of Patterson Court. You can select any house you want, but who would dare select a house they were not
given a bid to?

Self-selection as conceived in 1970 exists no longer, but it has evolved. Self-selection changed because its reasons and arguments carry
little water today. Davidson’s size, so small in 1971, has increased considerably, and the opportunities that have come with it
(including coeducation and a larger independent population) have also grown, destroying the notion of there being no viable social alternatives.
Previously, there were no alternatives to the fraternities. If you were independent, you had no social life, since fraternity parties
were all closed. Now, however, parties are all open. With that change, the distinction between fraternity and independent is not
as strong as it was in the sixties. The mixed nature of residence halls, the increased mobility of students, the
increased accessibility of entertainment outside the college campus, and the viable eating alternative of the Vail Commons for independents and
fraternity members alike has helped close the social gap.

But as much as the times and the college have changed, the premises of minimizing rejection, although noble, still prove
impractical. Life is full of rejections, social and otherwise. Students are rejected from receiving Resident Advisor and Hall Counselor positions,
rejected at the polls for SGA, and will be rejected from job positions after they leave college. Self-selection approached the
ridiculous in trying to eliminate it, as illustrated by Phi Davies ’81: “I think our local chapters of Phi Beta
Kappa and ODK should be forced to adapt self-selection. If they refuse, throw ‘em off campus!” The self-selection system never
did, anyway, stop or even minimize rejection, since the students simply reverted to social stigmatism and peer pressure to keep
the individuals they disliked from joining their house. Even worse, it tried to minimize the rejection at the cost of
group bonding and cohesiveness. The fate of the eating houses it spawned proves that fact.

The eating houses created by self-selection proved inherently weak, especially compared to fraternities. Spencer conceptualized the eating houses in 1970
as offering the same “constructive functions” fraternities did. He mentioned that eating houses could offer the same leadership training and
opportunities. While eating houses did require leadership, they basically existed to feed their members and to hold some parties. Fraternities,
however, for the most part had to deal with wider issues and more complex requirements. They had values to pursue
and built organizational structures to engage and excel in athletics, academics, and service, as well as to provide eating services
and an active social schedule.

Five things that fraternities had that eating houses did not push these goals. First, there existed strong national organizations that
oversaw the fraternities and gave them a set of meaningful values and goals. The national groups gave support staff, materials,
and training to the fraternities, as well as the opportunity for leadership beyond the chapter level. Second, friendly rivalries between
the groups helped them to push for...achievement and constant betterment, especially when awards and publicity directed that rivalry towards scholarship,
athletics, and service. Third, the fraternities held rush, which taught and required valuable social skills that benefited these men in
the business world. Fourth, the national nature of the fraternities gave these men instant contacts all over the country in
business, higher education, and socially. Lastly, the fraternities instilled loyalty and dedication through the close bonds of friendship that lasted
many years. This proved important, for those alumni gave valuable financial and advisor support to the chapter. The fraternity is
one of the few and is the most consistent places of contact between the student body and the graduates of
the college. Just ask the members of former eating houses how many alumni offered any advice, help, or support before
those houses closed. No eating house at Davidson upheld the values, taught the skills, held the recognition and prestige, commanded
the loyalty, or offered the possibilities of fraternities. The current system has evolved through practical experience and with the lessons
of the past, with an eye on the ideals and intentions of 1970 but with feasibility in mind as well.
Spencer, although he supported the concept of fraternities, disliked the fraternity system with its exclusivity and intolerance for others. However,
the system is no longer at fault, but rather a few individuals. The college is not supporting actions that alienate
and segregate, as the quick and decisive actions of this year have shown. It is standing, along with the community
(including the fraternities), against intolerance. Of course, Davidson and the fraternity system are not perfect and need improvement, but to
eliminate or badger the system evades the real problems. Eating houses perpetrate the alcohol problem just as much as fraternities,
if not more so due to the lack of pressure and influence of alumni and national organizations. If the college,
the faculty, and the press would move decisively to work with the Greek system for real education and real fraternal
achievement and competition rather than hampering it, then the fraternities of Patterson Court could bring both themselves and the entire
college forward. The fraternities must move in an equally decisive manner forward towards the pursuit of excellence, however. Those who
choose to exploit the current situation to move for the growth and extension of social alternatives and possibilities will help
to solve the kind of discontent that brought about self-selection; those, however, who move in order to attack the Greek
system and suggest a return to the original conception of self-selection ignore history and its lessons, destroy the future and
its possibilities, and moreover insult the attempts of all who worked to adapt the system to reality. Sources used to
compile this article include Jerry Blackstock ’66, Dean Will Terry, the College Archives, Frances Redmond, and the always helpful College
Archivist Dr. C.G. Davidson, loyal Beta and Davidsonian.

IT DOESN'T MATTER HOW SMART YOU ARE, IF YOU'RE NOT SMART ENOUGH TO MAKE THE MOST OF IT. SMALL CLASSES,
PERSONAL TUTORING, & RESULTS WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.

EDUCATIONAL GROUP. (704) 541-6300

FREE DIAGNOSTIC TESTING GRADUATE SCHOOL COUNSELING CLASSES FORMING NOW

Ronkin will give you the skills, practice, and support you need to clear a path straight to the graduate school
of your choice. Why Ronkin? Because getting into graduate school is tougher than ever.

MCAT LSAT GMAT GRE GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION ESSAY & APPLICATION ASSISTANCE

Beginning with your first set of diagnostic tests,
