THE DAVIDSONIAN

- SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

11

Women's Tennis Begins Title Defense With Wildcat Doubles Classic

By Bruce Balestier

The Davidson women’s tennis team, the reigning Big South Conference champions, got their season underway recently with a dual-match loss
at Campbell and an encouraging, though inconsistent, performance at their own Wildcat Doubles Classic.

Against Campbell February 8, the Wildcats encountered a team with a distinctly foreign flavor. The Camels carried four foreign players
on their roster, despite the loss of their number one singles player (who returned to Budapest). In singles play, wins
by Nicole Wilcox (number 5) and Barbara Grooms (number 6) brought Davidson into a 2-2 tie, with number one Cyndi
Hess and number three Tasha Ruth still on the court. But both Hess and Ruth lost hard-fought, three-set matches, and
Campbell took a 4-2 lead. Only the team of Wilcox and Jennifer Beahm could manage a win for the Wildcats
in the doubles, and the Camels earned a 6-3 win. Still, since the loss was competitive and came at the
hands of a contender for the conference title, Davidson coach Caroline Price was not displeased. “I was very optimistic,” she
said. “We were competitive at every position, whereas last year we were not competitive at one, two and three.”

In the third annual Doubles Classic, Davidson faced a talented five-team field. The Wildcats captured their only win of the
three-day tournament with a 3-1 triumph over a composite team from Anderson Junior College and Pearce Junior College. Both Anderson
and Pearce are ranked in the top 10 in the nation among junior college teams. In a match Price called
“a disappointment,” the ‘Cats fell 3-1 to Virginia Tech; the team also suffered 4-0 defeats to Virginia Commonwealth and Furman.
The high point of the tournament for Davidson came in a 2-2 tie with James Madison. The ‘Cats’ number one
team of Hess and Kimberley Nance upset the Dukes’ number one team, which was ranked number seven in the Northeast
region.

Her team’s performance, though erratic, left Price enthusiastic. Scholarship players now have been in the program for a year and
a half, and Price says the improvement is obvious. “There’s no doubt,” she said, “that a year and a half
later we’ve reached a new level of tennis.” According to Price, this year’s team is special in that it combines
a high skill level and depth.

But youth (four sophomores and two freshmen make up the top six players) and inconsistency, especially in doubles, concern Price.
At times thus far, passive doubles play has hurt the Wildcats. Said Price, “An adjustment we need to make is
to really close off the net.”

In addition to the Big South schedule, the schedule contains matches against Western Carolina, Furman and Appalachian State of the
Southern Conference and Louisville and UNCC of the Metro Conference. A spring break excursion to Hilton Head will include a
match against Georgetown. The team plays next at home March 3 against Kenyon.

HAS MODERN LIVING GOT YOU DOWN?
‘Click’ Elizabeth! I’m comin’ to join ya in a love bug took
love and you’re my windshield

President, but Ity

A. This is Richard

Terry announci

Dis opentt e
In the Jews are Wells

Te ~ Richard (ted my? Ye cain Our Soap cleans better in

IS YOUR RESUME A LITTLE LACKING? DO YOU WANT TO BE A QUINTET THEN

THEN & A JOB IS FOR YOU
(yes, you!)
RRs et Us veo vate tor ane ear on double:
or cade wane yarn a 85600 "a nnval stipend
3 Hhot means CHAP ET Money), and JOIN &
diverse group of exerhu hen and women
adlyZ Who make everyone's resi dat (io oy (Hle
bit easier. T's fm, i's qveat, and is Sexy,
+f youre mee junio or Senior, apply
(

’ wn Bee ow? (Deadline: Feb. 17)

Home Athletic
Events

February 24-March 2
Thursday, February 27:
Baseball v. UNCC 3:00
Wrestling v. Gardner-Webb 7:00

Friday, February 28:
Men’s Tennis v. East Carolina 4:00

Saturday, February 29:
Men’s Tennis v. Virginia/Wake Forest 9:30/2:30
Wrestling v. Campbell/Longwood 1:00
Baseball v. Appalachian State (2) Noon
Rugby v. Appalachian State

Sunday, March 1:
Baseball v. UNC-Wilmington 2:00

Monday, March 2:
Baseball v. Western Carolina 2:30

Rave Reviews from the Photo Magazines

FREE
2 ROLLS

35mm Film

Get prints or slides from the same roll

Exciting New Film! “Its main forte is color reproduction. You can see the difference between cherry red and tomato red.”
- Photographic Magazine

Now you can try the 35mm film Photographic Magazine calls the best 200 ASA print film in the World! To
introduce you, we'll send you two rolls Free. Fine grain, rich color, wide exposure latitude — perfect for everyday shots.
Shoot in bright or low light — indoors or outdoors. And you can order prints, slides, or both, from the
same roll! Try this remarkable film today.

FREE INTRODUCTORY OFFER
Rush me two 20-exposure rolls of your highly acclaimed 35mm film, one each at 200 ASA and 400 ASA. Enclosed
is $2.00 for shipping. Limit: 2 rolls per household.

FIRST NAME LAST NAME
ADDRESS
CITY STATE ZIP
Mail to:
Seattle FilmWorks
Elliott Bay at Pier 89
P.O. Box 34056
Seattle, WA 98124-1056

Ideal for use in Canon, Nikon, Minolta, Konica, Olympus, Pentax... any 35mm camera.

©1992 Seattle FilmWorks. Free film offer does not include processing. SFW-XL™ is a trademark of Seattle FilmWorks with processing available
from other labs. 100% Satisfaction Guaranteed.
