THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992

Soccer Continued from page 13

and drew a foul in the penalty box. Ukrop cashed in the resulting penalty kick with a shot to the bottom right corner, and the game was tied 1-1.

The referee began to lose his grip on the game in the waning minutes of the half. A scuffle developed around Deegan after a Tar Heel shot, and Carolina’s Brent Walker took a swing at him. Hayes ran over to back up his keeper, and though he did not throw a punch or even push a Carolina player, he was given a red card and ejected from the game. Walker also received a red card.

With only 10 men on a side in the second half, more open spaces developed, and the faster Tar Heels benefitted. Carolina controlled the ball during the early portion of the second half, but Davidson managed to move ahead anyway. On a beautiful play, Craig Omli fed the ball to Preston Yarborough just outside the box, and Yarborough drilled a shot just under the crossbar for a goal.

Then the countdown began. Nursing a 2-1 lead with under 20 minutes to play, the Wildcats assumed a more defensive posture. Carolina kept constant pressure on goal, and finally broke through with 1:18 left. A diving save to the left post left Deegan vulnerable, and Carolina’s Marco Ferruzzi pumped in the rebound to tie the game.

Before time could run out, though, the referee struck again. After Omli gestured his disapproval of a foul whistled on him, the referee gave him a yellow card, his second of the game (and an automatic red card). Faced with playing two 15-minute overtime periods nine against 10, Davidson’s chances seemed slim.

Still, the Wildcats mounted an attack. In the opening minutes of overtime, Ukrop was taken down flagrantly outside the Carolina goal, but no call was made. Some five minutes after this, the referee stopped play to give the Heels’ Jonathan Armstrong a red card for the foul. Armstrong’s ejection put the teams back on even terms at nine against nine.

Ukrop got his fourth goal of the season midway through the first overtime. The North Carolina keeper fell out of the box on a save and was properly called for a handball. Ukrop took the direct kick and sent a rocket into the top left corner for a 3-2 lead.

But with 2:35 left in the first OT, the Heels drew even. With Deegan out of position after a diving save at the right post, Todd Haskins of Carolina batted in the rebound. Barely 30 seconds later, though, the ‘Cats got the game-winner. Matt Spear lofted an indirect kick to the left post, and Cliff Castelloe scored on a high, arcing header over the goalie.

The ‘Cats managed to hold the lead through the second overtime, but even the end of time didn’t restrain the referee. He gave a red card to North Carolina coach Elmar Bolowich after the game had ended. Slagle no doubt wondered, as did everyone else present, what the referee was thinking about, but focused his comments on the gutty performance of his team.

“The kids were super,” he said. “If we’re not the best non-scholarship team in the nation, I don’t know who is.”

South Carolina came to Davidson for the home opener Wednesday. With Omli and Hayes ineligible because of their red cards in the UNC game, Slagle started John Olin and Andy Haile in their places. In an even game, the teams played to a 2-2 tie when the ‘Cats scored in the final minute.

Davidson trailed 1-0 at halftime, but got the equalizer with 32:30 to play. Castelloe sent a cross from the right side all the way through the box to Robert Malinzak on the other side. Malinzak crossed the ball toward theRight post, and found John Sampers, who punched the ball past the out-of-position Gamecock goalie. Aggressive goalkeeping by Deegan maintained the tie and forced overtime. 

The ‘Cats came out strangely passive in the first overtime, and paid for it. The Gamecocks dominated the entire 15-minute period, and cashed in the go-ahead goal six minutes in. It was the opposite story in the second overtime. With USC playing passively to protect the lead, Davidson had the lion’s share of the offensive chances. And with only :28 to play, the ‘Cats broke through. Spear crossed the ball toward the right post, where Castclloe headed the ball straight down. The ball then bounced high over the goalie’s hand and into the net, setting off a jubilant celebration. 

When tournament selection time rolls around, the difference between the loss that could have been and the tie that was will be enormous. “I’m elated to get the tie,” Castclloe said. For Yarborough, South Carolina’s passive play in the final period was the key. “In the second [overtime], we came out and were more aggressive, and they packed it in,” he said. “They were just trying to let the clock run out. You give any team enough chances, they’re going to score.” 

Slagle was most pleased with his team’s workmanlike persistence. “My favorite expression,” he said, “is ‘We’re a blue-collar team at a white-collar school.’” 

Friday night, at the Richmond MDA/Coca-Cola Classic, Davidson dominated Fairleigh-Dickinson 4-0. Hayes scored twice, and Zack Eastman and Ukrop also scored. The goal was the 50th of Ukrop’s career. Saturday, the ‘Cats took the tournament title, moved to 3-1-1, and continued their beeline for the top 20 with a 3-2 win over host Richmond. The team is next in action Wednesday at Duke (7:00 p.m.).

Harriers Continued from page 13

Close behind was freshman Phuong Nguyen (16th), in her first ever 5k, and Junior Lisa Sitek (17th); the depth they provide will prove quite valuable in the championship races. Freshman Alicia Dandar (25th) also ran well for the Wildcats in her first-ever collegiate race. First-year coach Beth Manson was quite pleased with her young squad’s effort. “This was a great start to the season. The young runners came through against some tough competition.” The women travel to the Winthrop Invitational next Saturday.

Give Bruce a Call, Write For Sports -6810

Apple Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40
Buy one of these. Re Macintosh Classic® II
Contact Susie Abernethy at x2432
Apple Macintosh LC II
Get over $400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the Apple Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever. And if you are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and only at your authorized Apple campus reseller. The Macintosh Student Aid rates.

For further information visit Computer Services Center

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. PowerBook is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a trademark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic Thesaurus, and CorrecText® developed by Houghton Mifflin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by Language Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResuméWriter is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 configuration only. All qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions of instructions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer.

Apple Macintosh IIsi