10 THE DAVIDSONIAN - SPORTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

Rugby Continued from page 12

ball into a thrilling, action-packed game. The main object of the game is to touch the ball, which is slightly
fatter than a football to simplify kicking and punting, to the ground in the end zone. Merely crossing the line
does not constitute a score. Touching the ball to the ground is called a “try” and counts four points. Upon
scoring a try, a team is allowed to attempt a conversion, which is similar to the extra point in football.
In rugby, however, the “extra point” is worth two points. One can also score three points by either kicking the
ball from the ground through the goal posts, much like a field goal in football, or by drop-kicking it through
the posts during play.

Advancing the ball to the opponents’ try zone can prove to be difficult. First, each team fields fifteen players. Therefore,
there is not much empty space on the field. In addition, it is illegal to throw the ball forward. Thus,
one must always pass the ball backwards to a player, much like a lateral in football. In this regard rugby
represents “razzle-dazzle” football. A player may kick the ball forward, but since kicks are often inaccurate, the team usually loses
possession. However, a kick can help because the opponents receive the ball at a point far downfield, and field position
is often more important than possession.

Since blocking or obstructing is against the laws of rugby, a player is vulnerable to attack by the opposing team.
Making it even more difficult to advance the ball is the fact that when a player is tackled, he or
she must immediately release the ball. Ideally, a teammate will pick it up and continue advancing. However, the opponents often
gain possession after a tackle.

Each team of fifteen people is divided into two groups, the forwards and the backs. The forwards, which comprise the
“pack” or “scrum,” are heavy, strong and ugly, and it is their job to win possession of the ball. They
also must achieve dominance on the field by pushing the opposing pack backwards. Once the pack wins the ball in
a scrummage, ruck or maul, they relay the ball to the backs. The backs are light, fast, and agile, but
they too are ugly. Their duty is to carry the ball and score. They see most of the running, scoring,
and tackling action in the game and therefore must be in excellent physical condition, as well as be fearless on
the field.

Gourmet Pizza & Subs
THE BEST .... THIS SIDE OF ITALY
Under New Management
ALL NEW RECIPES
Northern Italian Recipes,
Special Blended Pizza Dough & Cheeses,
Make for a Special Pizza
The Best Side of Italy!
8301 Magnolia Estates
Route 73 West • Magnolia Plaza
Cornelius, NC (Exit 28 toward Lake Norman)

Together, the forwards and the backs work as a team in order to win the game by pushing the opponents
backwards and carrying the ball forward. Some of the terms of rugby may sound confusing, but they are not. The
maul and ruck are common occurrences. Mauls and rucks form when a player who has the ball is stopped or
tackled. If he or she is only “stood up” (i.e. stopped from moving forward without being brought to the ground),
then it is not necessary to release the ball. Consequently, a large crowd, usually made up of the forwards, meshes
together around the ball carrier. This mass of pushing players is called a “maul.” Each team attempts to push the
other team backward in order to gain field position.

A “ruck” is very similar in appearance, the main difference being that the ball is placed on the ground and
cannot be touched with the hands until it is maneuvered by foot out of the crowd. “Lineouts” are another common
play. A lineout occurs when the ball has traveled out of bounds. Each team’s forwards line up perpendicular to the
sideline and attempt to catch the ball when it is thrown into play. The lineout resembles a cross between the
jump ball of basketball, except each team has several players jumping simultaneously, and the throw-in of soccer.

The most famous formation is the “scrummage.” When a penalty occurs, a “scrum down” is often awarded to the non-offending
team. Each pack binds together in a very specific manner. Once bound, the two packs join together and begin pushing.
Then the ball is rolled into the middle, and the fighting for possession begins. As in a ruck, no one
is allowed to use his or her hands to touch the ball until it is clear of the scrum.the scrum.
The game consists of two 40-minute halves and is divided by a five-minute halftime. Play stops only if the ball
goes out of bounds or if someone is injured. When hurt, a player has one minute to recover. If he
or she cannot return to play within the minute, a substitution must be made. Only two substitutes are allowed per
game. If there are any more than two injuries, the team has to play without a full side. Consequently, each
player must be very tough and physically fit. One final component, unique to the game of rugby, is the post-game
party. At this time, the two teams kick back and relax together. Here players compare wounds and share war stories
from previous games. Many tight friendships are formed through rugby, and no doubt this odd custom of partying with your
“enemies from the field” is largely responsible.

Rugby is a popular game throughout the world. Legend has it that the game began in 1823 at the Rugby
School in England when a student named William Webb Ellis, with a fine disregard for the rules of football [soccer]
as played in his time, first took the ball in his hands and ran with it. Rugby’s popularity grew throughout
the Commonwealth and eventually made it to the United States. There was a decline in interest after World War II,
which some people attribute to the growing feelings of nationalism. Since rugby was seen as “foreign,” many did not wish
to participate. However, the game has been steadily gaining a following since the late 1950s.

In the early 1970s, Davidson College formed the fourth rugby club in the state of North Carolina. The team was
mostly from one fraternity and was a dominant power in the state. However, by the late 1970s, the team folded.
In 1989, a new team was formed. With only one full year of experience, the team won a medal in
the liberal arts school division at the state tournament. Now in its sixth straight season, the team looks to repeat
the greatness of its past. Hopefully, this introduction has made the game more understandable and desirable to watch, or even
play. Rugby is basically a simple game. It requires great stamina and toughness, but it is very exciting. Anyone can
participate. One does not have to be big or strong like the stereotypical rugby player (although it does help to
be ugly). With the broad range of skills involved in the game, anyone can find a position suitable to his
or her talents. If anybody has any interest (experience is NOT necessary) in playing, please contact me at 6320 or
come out to the Upper IMAC fields on Tuesdays or Thursdays at 4:30. Information gathered from The Encyclopedia Americana and
Dr. David Coppola.

Cats Continued from page 12

Despite much success moving the ball in the second half, the Quakers were unable to provide a serious scoring threat.
All four quarterbacks tried to bring the defending Old Dominion Athletic Conference champions back, but none was ultimately successful. The
last two, Jim Bob Bryant and Reuben Burton, were intercepted by Jason Branch and Tom Bannister, respectively. Branch’s interception led
to the game’s final tally. On the ensuing play, Howell held the ball on an option to the right and
outran all Quaker defenders as he scampered 63 yards to put Davidson ahead 18-3 with 2:50 remaining. The ‘Cats had
another opportunity to score with time running out following Bannister’s defensive gem. Behind Kevin Holzworth, who replaced Howell at quarterback,
Davidson chose a conservative game plan. Keeping the ball on the ground, the ‘Cats ran out the clock and secured
Davidson’s first season-opening victory since a 15-0 triumph over Millsaps in 1989.

“We have a lot of young guys this year, and this was our first big test,” linebacker Martin McCann said.
“I think we definitely passed it.” Lineman Mills Ariail led the defensive charge for the ‘Cats, racking up 11 tackles.
Strong safety Leonel Benoist added 10 and a sack, and McCann notched eight tackles. Offensively, Howell completed 11 of 21
passes for 114 yards and the touchdown to Bodkin; on the ground, he picked up 119 yards and a score
on only nine carries. Wright gained 33 yards on the ground, and wide receiver Dan Lamar paced the ‘Cats with
45 receiving yards. Saturday’s match certainly provided Davidson with a great deal of confidence heading into this Saturday’s contest at
the University of the South. A large degree of uncertainty surrounded the new offensive and defensive sets unveiled against the
Quakers; the 18-3 victory proved that the ‘Cats are staring directly at a successful season. The next step will be
taken in Sewanee, Tennessee.

SGA ELECTIONS: TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 9-3 PM IN THE UNION AND CHAMBERS. RUNOFFS WED. & THURS. IF NECESSARY. FRESHMAN &
INDEPENDENT SGA SENATORS & HONOR COUNCIL.
