THE DAVIDPHONIAN NEWS
FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1992

Meter-Maids to Gain National Exposure On TV's Fox
By Leppy McAlchie

Fox Broadcasting Network surprised the Davidson College community today by announcing plans for the popular and controversial television program COPS!
to film the Davidson College police force in action for an upcoming episode. Said executive producer Mark Shlumberger, “We heard
these guys take criminals right by the balls and knew they deserved to be honored on our show.”

The Davidson police squad has been recognized by the Fraternal Order of Police and the National Bobbies of America Association
as one of the most efficient forces in the country. They were especially commended for their proficiency in confiscation of
liquor possessed by minors and high-speed “Cushman” chases. “Well, I don’t like to brag, but we have the highest number
of indictments, convictions, and the most efficient record-keeping system for parking violations in the entire South-Eastern region,” said one officer
who spoke only under anonymity. However, the striking resemblance to Officer Hightower of Police Academy fame makes him a conspicuous
part of the DCPF.

Fox plans to send camera crews to the campus in early September. “We would like to follow some of the
officers on their Friday night beats on the infamous Patterson Court. We’ve heard those crazy Sig Ep’s really can party
‘til the crack o’ dawn, and the officers warn us that it may be a dangerous situation -- but as
the motto on my desk says, ‘You can’t be any more psychotic than that Van Gogh guy’!” stated one of
Shlumberger’s numerous assistants, apparently referring to the late artist, Vincent Van Gogh.

Asked what might be expected during the three-day filming, Officer Harding of the DCPF replied, “Well, you’ll probably get to
know ‘The Pantry’ pretty darn well, and if we’re lucky, we might get to escort one of those hot chicks
down the hill from the library. You wouldn’t think it, but those Cushmans really turn a lot of the ladies
on.”

While historically being touted as one of the most respected forces the College has ever had, the DCPF has recently
faced allegations of involvement in the Kappa Sigma fraternity drug ring (See page 3). When questioned on the subject, that
big guy behind the desk declined to comment. Asked if he was aware of the allegations when he chose to
cover the DCPF, Shlumberger responded, “Well hell, nobody said those boys were perfect.”

Shlumberger expects the episode to air in late October as the Davidson community eagerly awaits. One member of the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon house expressed his anticipation, “I can’t wait. I’m gonna go out, kick some Bes and get on TV.”

The Davidphonian

Kickin' the Ballistics
Menkhaus, Long To Appear This Summer With Three Big-Haired Babestresses on TV Hit Studs
By Freelove Upthumpa

After an afternoon of unmentionable debauchery involving liquor, women, guns, drugs, small children, an albino typist, three chickens, and a
trampoline at one ofCharlotte’s more disreputable drinking establishments, Professor of Political Science, Ken “Doll” Menkhaus, and Professor of English, David
“Love-Me-Don’t-Judge-Me” Long, tried out for the smash hit television show Studs during a recent Charlotte visit by the show’s crew.
Following several hours of grueling interviews where the two fielded questions regarding their past sexual conquests, Menkhaus was chosen to
appear on the show. Long’s interview took less time, as the show’s producers were instantly captivated by his Schwarzeneggarian physique.
During the beginning of April, the two were flown to California to tape an installment of the show, which will
air this summer. Before the show was taped, both of Davidson’s finest went on dates with three “fabulous babes” from
the Los Angeles area. The two men then taped Studs, deciphering questions from the teenagers to determine who had the
best time on the date, and which of the two is the biggest “stud.” The results are a closely guarded
secret until June, but Davidson’s faculty and student communities have been making some serious book in the meantime. The safe
money, according to experts, is on Menkhaus. Senior Courtney Nichols has for several months touted the young professor’s desirability across
campus. In spite of her recently-developed and rather adolescent fascination with Tom Kazee, Nichols says she considers Menkhaus, “quite a
piece,” and notes a certain animal attraction. In addition to his looks, Menkhaus has a certain arrogant, know-it-all about everything,
type of flair which most women find impossible to ignore. Gamblers with a taste for risk, however, have decided to
bet the whole hog on Long. “Bald is beautiful,” said a senior who did not wish to be identified. “I
just can’t get enough of his enthusiasm,” she continued; “he’s got this energy and unpredictability about him which sets me
on fire! I mean, sure, he walks through the day like he’s just barely out of a coma, but that’s
only his image. Inside the man is seething with masculine charge.”

“It’s the bitches I like,” said Menkhaus about the show. “I like trying my lines on poorly educated, synthetically clothed,
and gargantuan haired little skirts. Makes me feel pretty important, you know, like I matter,” he added. Long was a
bit more demure. “I’m not all that comfortable with the ethical standards established by the show. I mean, the whole
point of Studs is to set two guys up to go out and have sex with the same three women,
and then compare notes on national TV! The experiences shared between a man and a woman are sacred, tender, intimate
moments which shouldn’t be discussed in any place less sacred than, say, a fraternity house. But damn if it don’t
beat grading papers!” Neither would divulge any details about their dates, saying that the college community would have to wait
until the summer to learn who is the bigger “stud.” “Let’s just say, a good time was definitely had by
all!” blathered Menkhaus.
