THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1992 3

NEWS

Philosopher Discusses
How Society Creates Values

By Alice Felmlee

Imagine yourself back in time. It is now November 3, 1992. Election Day. Waiting in line at the voting station you realize that although Bill Clinton may be your candidate of choice, desirable platforms are also held by Bush and Perot. Each candidate offers programs and policies which are valuable to various groups of people. How then is one to determine which “plan for the future” is most valuable for their own life?

This is a question which philosopher Dr. Bill Throop of St. Andrew’s College sought to answer on Thursday, November fifth. How do we create values?

The lecture began with an analogy between the meaning of friendship and the value of an uninhabited forest: both are only as valuable as what you do with them. The value of a friendship increases as one builds on it. Indeed, the casual “coffee-shop acquaintance” may lead to the intimacy and sharing of secrets found only with a close friend.

An uninhabited forest becomes more valuable the less that is done with it. Amidst skyscrapers and traffic jams, a “virgin forest” becomes a desirable refuge.

Throop then introduced the audience to the anti-realist or naturalist orientation to the world—a view with which he associates himself. As an anti-realist, Throop creates his own values centered on the premise that the world of science provides the best view.

Moving from the birth of values, to their development and on to their

See "Values" on page 6

Davidson Cadets Compete at Fort Jackson

By Caroline Lemley

During the Halloween Weekend, while most Davidson students put on their costumes and headed down to the court, ROTC cadets put on their BDU’s and headed down to Fort Jackson, S.C. for a weekend of training and competition.

The ROTC’s annual Fall FTX (Field Training Exercise) is held annually with cadets from UNCC to give cadets an introduction to barracks life and weapons systems while promoting teamwork through squad level competition. Each squad, composed of from six to nine cadets, competed in a barracks inspection, confidence course, road march, M-16 qualification, and Drill and Ceremony competition. The weekend ended with an awards ceremony when the winning squad was announced.

More important than the competition was the teamwork involved in each event. Everyone had to work together to get over the 40-foot “Skyscraper” and to complete the road march after an exhausting day. The juniors had their first chance to take over the leadership positions and put to use the skills they have spent the last two years learning. This is especially critical for the juniors who will spend six weeks of their upcoming summer at Advanced Camp at Fort Bragg. The seniors spent numerous hours preparing for the weekend and grading the juniors on their performance. They did an excellent job of running a safe, beneficial weekend for everyone.

RELAX

St. Andrew's College Philosopher Bill Throop

quaintance” may lead to the intimacy and sharing of secrets found only with a close friend.

An uninhabited forest becomes more valuable the less that is done with it. Amidst skyscrapers and traffic jams, a “virgin forest” becomes a desirable refuge.

Throop then introduced the audience to the anti-realist or naturalist orientation to the world—a view with which he associates himself. As an anti-realist, Throop creates his own values centered on the premise that the world of science provides the best view.

Moving from the birth of values, to their development and on to their

lectures on our creation of values

them. The value of a friendship increases as one builds on it. Indeed, the casual “coffee-shop acquaintance” may lead to the intimacy and sharing of secrets found only with a close friend.

Make a Difference...

See "Values" on page 6

Yes, It's True, We Were Wrong

The News Editor would like to apologize for the following errors:
- Dr. Zumwalt's new book was referred to as a novel. It is a biography.
- Mrs. Kimbrough was referred to as a faculty member. She is not a faculty member. She is a staff member.
- Dr. Robert Manning is the committee head in the search for a new chaplain.
- And finally, all the spelling errors were caused by computer error.

TEACH

IES can make a difference as you begin your teaching career. We will provide you with information about teaching in a private school, honest assessment of your competitiveness, and recommendations about your candidacy.

Save A Life!

Go to the Bone Marrow Drive
Wednesday, November 18
9am-4pm
in the Morrison Room.

SPONSORED BY PROJECT LIFE

TES assists private schools in locating talented teachers. Last year we helped over 400 college seniors paces perme colete teaching job search. ay hgh farrnagcuslecenend raroprente, ed weare

Contact your Career Office for ind an interview app please telephone Kirk Russell or Brooke Burns at (800) 257-5102.

Buy 1 Full Sub and Get 1/2 Sub or Small Pizza FREE!

Four-Five-Six Foot Party Subs!
Gourmet Pizza & Subs
THE BEST... THIS SIDE OF ITALY
(48 hours notice, please)

8301 Magnolia Estates, Route 73 West, Cornelius
892-6678

RAINBOW DELI

Take off with Rainbow Deli, your home base for Fresh Fish and Steaks. Lunch, Dinner and drink specials daily. Weekend live entertainment.

Wednesday: Open Mic
Thursday: Karaoke, Mug Nite $1.50
Friday & Saturday: Live Entertainment
Daily Drink Specials $1.50 Tooters

ENTIRE TICKET (excluding alcohol)
DINE IN ONLY — THREE CONVENIENT LOCATIONS
8301 Magnolia Estates Dr.
Cornelius, NC
(704) 896-0091

EXPIRES NOVEMBER 23, 1992