THE DAVIDPHONIAN
FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1992

Letters

FREELOVE UPTHUMPA - Editor in Chief
CHRISTOPHER SMART - Assistant Editor
MOUNTAIN DEWBIE - Associate Editor
FISH, STUDY GEEK, HEYWOOD J. BLOMIE, HOLY ROLLER, DORK, LOSER, BIBLE BEATER - Associate Editors

And the rest of the little peons are too chicken to even put a pseudonym, so we'll take the credit for ourselves.

Actually, screw it, let's rat on 'em. Those really responsible are:
Joe Cook - Ringleader
Pat Bunch - Demolitions Expert
Glenn Kinken - Sexual Innuendo
Mark Johnson - Double Entendre
Virginia Mischen - Generally Mean Stuff
Sam Adams - Anti-Establishment Blather

A Few Words From the Editors

Oh, yes indeed kids, we're back! Last year's Phonian crew is back in the saddle to help out a much-harried young 'Sonian editor. That's the kind of guys we are; now if only you could know who we are, that'd be something; but we'll never tell. At least not out of court.

Putting this little rag sheet together takes me back, back about a year ago, to be precise, when we unleashed the last 'Phonian for your uncultured sensibilities. If you remember, as, trust me, we do all too well, the local press had a field day with us just because a few pseudo-humanities types hadn't read their Swift. We certainly don't want to dredge up any of that old mud; but, we're going to request here that you don't work yourselves up into such a frenzy this year.

We direct this charge especially to the Charlotte Observer, and News 36. Observer, your article was fair, but that sensational headline was really inappropriate. We know you're under new management, though, so we're sure that it wouldn't happen again. Now, with those News 36ers, it's a completely different story. You and your yellow-journalist leader came up here that day for the express purpose of making Davidson College look like crap. You got me out of bed at some ungodly hour to pump me for information. I agreed to talk to you only if you allowed me to make a brief statement about the controversy on the air. "Sure," you said. Had I only known what was to follow, I would have chased you out of town myself. You wound up taking brief sound bites from what each student you interviewed had to say, and strung them together as your lead story at 6:00 pm. I use the word "story" advisedly, for that's just what it was, fiction. You tried to paint Davidson as a haven for rape, knowing full well from the people with whom you had already spoken that such was not the case. In fact, when you went to get information about campus rape, you went down to UNC-C. The story was supposed to be about Davidson, and you're traipsing down Harris Blvd. looking for dirt. I tell you, guys, that was grand. Please don't waste your time or ours by coming back this year, because we won't talk; except to your competitors, the fair and objective team at Channel 9 led by that fine reporter Jeff Sonier, who will have the full story, both about this issue, and your utter ineptitude.

We kid about this place, but we love Davidson, and we won't allow some penny-ante Edward R. Murrow to trash its exalted name. But I'm letting my vindictive side take over, and losing my point. Sure, some of the stuff on these eight pages is pretty harsh, but it's not devastating. Hell, we're not trashing reputations here, just poking at a few egos. If you get upset from a mentioning of your name in these pages, you're being a little sensitive. If you can't laugh at yourself, you're missing life's greatest joke. And that, dear reader, is where comedy meets tragedy.

It's time for us to say our goodbyes. Christopher Smart and I won't be around next year to put out another one of these things, and we'll miss it. The Davidson community is a swingin’ bunch of cats, and you'll be missed sorely. Take care, you rock. Please don't make things too rough on ol’ Mountain Dewbie next year; he's got a good heart.

With plans to be spending a good deal of time in the Dean's Office tomorrow in spite of this avowal of our good intentions, we are,

Your humble servants,
Freelove Upthumpa, Christopher Smart, Mountain Dewbie

The Davidphonian is published yearly in the dark of an April night by a few ill-privileged students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and firebombs to: The Davidphonian, P.O. Box 1148, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-1963. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor will be summarily ridiculed and thrown away as those responsible for this travesty will be long gone in nine short days. Subscriptions cost $27,000 per year. Believe it or not, copyright is still held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

STRAIGHT-A STUDENT... Do these words sound familiar? Do they apply to someone you know at...Davidson-College? Do they apply to you? As seniors, we realize that the alcohol situation at Davidson has gotten worse. You underclassmen have us to thank for that. During our time here, we have seen increased property damage and rudeness at some parties. Now, as we approach graduation, we realize that this behavior has been totally justified and has in no way affected our prospects for a viable future in the workplace. Why the hell shouldn’t we behave like this when we’re screwed anyway? Encouraging a good, old-fashioned chemical dependency of some kind. With any luck, this could develop into an appearance on the Oprah show, a book deal, national fame, and a twelve-step recovery program in your name. Doesn’t that sound appealing?

See "FISH" on page 3

XAE to Protesters: You'll Get Yours

To Those Who Should be Very Concerned:

We, the brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, wish to offer yet another heartfelt apology. We’re really, really sorry. We realize that our actions this semester have been unacceptable to the Davidson community, and that our problems run much deeper than whether or not we took a few liberties with our female party guests. We did. We have repeatedly promised to keep the vandalism, threats, outright oppression, and drunken debauchery under the rug, and an SAE promise is as good as... gold. Our purpose in writing this letter, however, is not to kiss any more ass, for we are out of Blistex. This letter shall serve as fair warning to all of our detractors. To those bandwagon voters in Rusk, to those wenches who wrote that anonymous letter, and to every last one of you who sniveled up to the Select Committee and denigrated our beloved chapter, we know who you are. Your tires will not be slashed, nor will we hire swarthy assailants to greet you in the shadows. We, at Sigma Alpha Epsilon, are well above such petty retribution. We intend to ruin your lives. Have you snitches thought about life after Davidson in a ruthless world where Leslie will not be there to protect you? Economic necessity will drive you into our domain. Just what do you think the thousands of Davidson alums have done upon graduation? Taught fourth grade? No, they have stepped into the rich, southern, white, male network that controls the better half of America. Banking, law firms, textiles, South Carolina, the U.S. Senate; you skirts want to work where? You interview for a nice, cozy job, say, at a bank. You have a wonderful interview. President of Rusk, Hall Counselor, and PCC representative all color your resume. The man or woman behind the desk (it is a menial job) will forward your file to “someone” many floors up; and take a guess as to whom that “someone” might be. Imagine the laughs we will have over a lunch with the boys who, coincidentally, are also alums. We’ll drink a couple of Manhattans, slash your credit rating, and repossess your worldly goods. A toast to your sock-washing housewifery. Simply put, your lives will not be fair. Why should they be? You dateless fish consider yourselves clever for dragging us through the mud. Please fasten your crash helmets, because some of your more ambitious peers, I think you call them feminists, will find out the hard way (pardon the pun) that the glass ceiling is shatterproof, and we viciously vengeful SAE’s plan to use every legal... no, available means to lower it further. Meanwhile, the crocodile cries, and the blacklist grows longer.

Sincerely,
The Sig Alphs

A Friend Writes

Well Freclove, I decided to do it. I’ve become a professional bull rider. My parents knew it was in my blood, my friends knew it, you knew it, and even I knew it. I just couldn’t deny my true calling any longer. I was thinking to myself, “What does a recent graduate with a B.A. in History do? Grad school?... No, total cop-out. Become the Vice-President of a company?... Tried it. Get married?... Right! Then it hit me!--Pro Bullriding! Nothing else to do, why not? Sure, it’s not the most intellectually stimulating of sports, but it beats the shit out of wearing a suit. What is it like to ride a ton of nostril-flaring, ball-breaking, shit-stinking beast that wants to stick his horns in your rectum? I’m glad you asked. Well, it’s a lot like Bar-B-Q’ing chicken. No, really, it’s like NASCAR without brakes. As you can see in the picture, I’m now being sponsored by NIKE. They’ve even changed their slogan because of me. Instead of “Just do It,” their new catchphrase is “Shit, why not?” L. L. Bean is another sponsor of mine. Bet you’ve never seen an Anorak on the back of a butt-kickin’ mule on steroids! Seems that the Bean people got sick of their surf-casting, buoy-collecting, Yankee-Pot-Roast-Eating image. In fact, Mr. Bean himself was heard to say... “$*%! this pansy-ass Fly-Fishing shit, we’re going to sponsor us some bull riders!” Needless to say, they promptly called ol’ Jefferson. Yep, things are looking red bright for this city kid turned macho bovine rider. Being a rookie on the tour ain’t exactly the most desirable position in Bull-Riding; but don’t worry, I’m gonna make it! I'll keep you informed.

--Jeff