8 _ THE DAVIDPHONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1992

THE BACK END INTERVIEW

Another Conversation with The Dean

By Freelove Upthumpa, Mountain Dewbie, and Christopher Smart

After reading the legendary article about Dean of Faculty and self-proclaimed deity Robert C. Williams in the Davidson Journal, ace
‘Phonian reporters Freelove Upthumpa, Mountain Dewbie, and Christopher Smart went to talk with this legend themselves. What we print below
are extracts from a series of several conversations, each more spellbindingly wonderful than the last. We hope you, too, will
experience the same feelings of warmth, love, cheer, and harmony to which we were never privileged during the time we
spent with Dean Williams, or as we like to call him, Big Boy Bobby C. Bill.

Davidphonian: Last fall, when the Davidson Journal did a feature story on you and your family, you were extremely open
with Jerry Stockdale about a variety of subjects. What makes you so--well--indiscreet?

Big Boy: You see, guys, I really don’t have time for that feigned modesty crap. I mean, I am who
I am, and as you can see, that’s really quite something. When you take a guy who’s written six books,
and is extremely impressed with the fact that he’s written six books, you’re gonna be with a man who doesn’t
hold back. You kids should see my journals. I’ve got 8,476 volumes so far, just about my days in High
School, excuse me. (Looks in mirror, sighs heavily). Where were we? Oh, yeah, me. I guess you could say I’m
everything. I’ve written six books; I play tennis; I sing; I play the piano; I’ve written six books; I teach;
I’m the Dean of Faculty at a highly prestigious liberal arts college; I’ve chaired the Select Committee to Establish Clean
Living; and, I almost forgot to mention, I’ve written six books. Oh, yeah, I’m also married and I have three
children.

Davidphonian: You mentioned all those things, repeatedly, in the Journal piece. But it’s great to hear more. We really like
what you told Mr. Stockdale about Katherine’s conception! Boy, to give out details like that for a college publication shows
a willingness to...

Bobby C.: God knows! What a night! Just between us, I’m still walkin’ funny. Yeah, I told that Stockdale guy
a bit, about Mom sliding me some cash and letting me take out the car on my fortieth birthday, but
I don’t think I made the whole thing clear. Me and Ann: Freelove, baby, us was tanked! Hell, one minute
we’re out shootin’ a few games at the Korner Pub, next thing I know, I’m a Dad again. Crazy world,
boys!

Davidphonian: Somebody ought to sell tickets.

Bobenator: Hell, I'd buy one!

Davidphonian: Back in September one of the irresponsible Davidsonian editors wrote that opinions piece prattling on about the frequency with
which your tenured professors take off on mini-sabbaticals to do research. That was pretty insensitive. I mean, you can hardly
argue that Peter Ahrensdorf didn't earn his stripes in his three or four semesters at Davidson before he got that
big fat grant.

Bill: My point exactly. That damn Smyth obviously doesn't know his ass from a hole in the ground. His piece
reveals a fundamental misunderstanding of everything that makes this college work. And you’re looking at him--Big Boy Bobby C. In
fact, I've got big plans for an extension of the sabbatical program. I bet you didn't realize that we have
a number of world leaders on our faculty that are now doing research at other institutions as we speak: Elie
Wiesel, Mikhail Gorbachev, all the biggies.

Davidphonian: Well, doesn't that get kind of expensive? We probably have to pay those people a good deal of money.
Have you ever thought it might not be worth it to keep a bunch of figurehead...teachers on the faculty when
they aren't helping out with the educational mission of the college? Just playing the devil's advocate.

The Bobster: Listen, you punk. I've got a $12 million budget, and when you've got that kind of money you
have the power to make some things happen and to stop some things from happening. Right now, I'd like to
make a big daddy pizza happen. I mean, I'm a liberal artist and an athlete and all that, but I
can throw down some Domino's if I have to.

Davidphonian: That's great, Dean Williams, but we've got a lot of ground to cover here. Please put your pants back
on, sir. Would you mind coming down from the light fixture, Dean Williams; we’re really quite busy. Thank you, sir.
Now, you recently chaired something called “The Select Committee,” a group which wound up recommending that the college be immediately
converted into a Trappist monastery. You and the gang specifically targeted fraternities as the source of many troubles on campus,
and we were wondering if you might be able...

The Bopper: Yeah, yeah, I know what you’re going to say, and let me tell you, kid, you’re missing the
point. I don’t want to get rid of fraternities, well, except those damn animals over at Kappa Sigma; I want
to get a piece of the action. Do you realize what kind of power these organizations hold? Damn, they run
the place. All I want is a tribute, you know, kinda like the mafia. All they have to do is
give me a cut from the drugs, bootleg liquor, guns, and chicks, and I’m outta their hair. Nobody around here
has the slightest idea how to run a damn business—that’s where I come in: I know how to organize! As
for the thing about the Trappist monastery, it’s simple cover, guys. Just put on the sheep’s clothing, and you can
help yourself at the "All You Can Eat Lamb-O-Rama Food Bar of Crime.” Trust me, guys, I know what I’m
doing.

Davidphonian: Let’s talk students. You stated in the Journal article, that Davidson students were “more conformist—intellectual conformists. They sometimes lack
that edge, they lack that intellectual curiosity, or desire to find out something new” (Stockdale, Jerry. “A Conversation With The
Dean.” Davidson Journal. VII (1991), Fall. 16). Now isn’t that a little unfair?

Bobolopolis: I realize that was a little harsh, but let me remind you, I’ve been all around the intellectual map,
and I’ve got a 10-page C.V. to prove it. But let’s not talk about the students, they bore me. Let’s
talk about me. I’m into a new project, and I think you’ll be fascinated. Hand me that corkscrew, won’t you?
I’m gonna be working for Hit Parader magazine starting this summer. Can you believe it, a guy who’s written six
books will be following the Gunners, that’s Guns ‘N’ Roses for those of your readers not hangin’ with the pack.
Hey, lemme see that lighter for a minute. That’s better. Oh yeah, man. Gunners. (A series of heavy sighs.)

And in this state of impending euphoria, the reporters left Williams’ office. As we went out the door, we heard
him babbling something about needing his space-suit and mission control, but, in a hurry, we ignored it. Later in the
day, we saw Williams again, this time without the benefit of clothing, skipping gleefully around the gently blooming dogwoods behind
the Chemistry building. We promptly notified the authorities, and Dean Williams is currently “finding himself” at a comfortable hospital in
the Shenandoah Valley. Our thanks to the drugged-out Dean for his time, and of course his outstanding sense of humor.
We wish him a speedy return to mental stability.
