THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992

Russian Aid

Continued from page 1

help. Moncure first contacted a lieutenant colonel friend of his in the National Guard in Charlotte. This person sent Ordinartsev
a long list of U.S.-based relief organizations. One of these organizations, Volunteers In Technical Assistance, has agreed to coordinate this
relief effort.

Moncure then contacted Major General Buster Glosson, a Davidson parent and the director of tactical planning for the U.S. Air
Force. Glosson had actually heard of the program and secured the use of military aircraft in transporting the food to
Moscow. In Moscow, the food will be picked up by members of the Pyatigorsk church. These church members will make
the 30-hour drive to Moscow in rented trucks and will hopefully receive a KGB escort on the way home. Once
the aid reaches Pyatigorsk, the minister of the church will distribute it to the community.

The joint efforts of a small American community, the U.S. military, and the Russian KGB is remarkable. Rosemary Raynal contacted
the national Presbyterian organization, Presbyterian Church U.S.A., and they commented that "a relief effort of this nature was completely unprecedented
to the best of their knowledge." Raynal said that Russian Orthodox Churches have traditionally “steered clear” of American Protestant churches
and that this program is an incredible opportunity for the two churches to develop a “personalized relationship.”

Since the initial efforts of Ordinartsev and the Raynals, the aid program has branched out to other immediate communities. Ordinartsev
has spoken at nearby Gilwood Presbyterian Church and will soon speak at churches in Statesville and Elkin. He has also
spoken at area Rotary Clubs and Lions Clubs. Dr. Charles Raynal’s brother, who is a physician, has contacted several pharmaceutical
companies. Ordinartsev said that these companies are considering sending medical supplies. In addition, the effort has enlisted the support of
the Westminster group on campus and has contacted the Charlotte-based, US-USSR Bridges for Peace organization. Also, the company in Mooresville
which manufactures the boxes in which the goods are shipped has agreed to sell the church the boxes at a
discount price.

Ordinartsev underscored the seriousness of the need for aid. He said, “People have worked their whole lives and now this
country doesn’t want to help them.” The economic situation is so bad, Ordinartsev says, that many people are now unable
to afford their own funerals. He said, “The churches have no money,” and described their situation as “desperate.”

He called the program “remarkable, and very exciting.” Ordinartsev cited the “golden rule” in describing the purpose of the program:
“As God said, treat others as you would wish them to treat you.”

Ordinartsev is hopeful that the Davidson student body will also support this effort. He said, “I would like to have
any kind of assistance from Davidson College.” He also said that the Russian people “know Americans are very generous.”

These are the contents of the boxes that are being sent to Pyatigorsk. The organizers of the aid program ask
that you use the exact amounts requested and that you buy nothing in glass or plastic containers. Due to the
cost of the contents ($35-$45), families or individuals may wish to work together to fill a box. Rosemary Raynal is
urging participants to include pictures and notes to the Russian people. She is confident that “we'll hear from them” and
that a “two-way, long-term relationship” can be established.

AIDS

Continued from page 1

stated that “the historical tradition...is quite equivocal. Some physicians have stayed with contagious patients even at the risk of their
own health. Others, however, have fled.”

In the last two centuries, Zuger said that the American Medical Association’s Code of Ethics has changed from requiring physicians
to treat patients “...even at the risk of their own lives...” to giving physicians the freedom to choose “whom to
serve, with whom to associate, and the environment in which to provide medical services.”

She pointed out that there are two ethical models which physicians can follow today. The “contract model,” she explained, states
that both the physician and the patient can enter into a contract voluntarily. But, once the relationship is established, only
the patient has the right to break the contract unless the physician provides adequate notice for the patient to find
another doctor.

The “rights model,” Zuger said, forces public physicians to treat all patients who come for help. Physicians in private practice,
however, have the right to deny treatment to any patient, she said.

Zuger concluded by saying that “a volunteering system of accommodations is being worked out” for treating AIDS patients. But, she
noted, in return for a physician’s treatment of an AIDS patient, he can expect to receive some rewards. Zuger listed
attaining prestige in the research community, receiving a higher salary, and being labeled as a hero as possibilities.

Following her speech, Zuger was asked what her position was on the issue. In response, she said, “I think...it is
possible to construct a strong moral code for the profession... but I am not sure that physicians would adhere to
it.”

* EARN EXTRA INCOME *

Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to: Travel INC., P.O. Box 2530, Miami,
FL 33161

M.D.
J.D.
M.B.A.

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.

Available at campus and local bookstores

Want Help? We’re Here.

Study Skills
Sexuality
Relationships
Time management
Stress management
Family issues
Eating disorders
Depression
Anxiety
Alcohol & substance abuse

STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER
Room 08 Union Bldg. Basement
Call Ext. 2451 for appointment

DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.
Molly Terry, MSW
David Staton, Ph.D., Director
Christine Davidson, Secretary
