THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

Trade Licks?
By David Smyth

As a freshly enrolled student at W.P. Grier Junior High School, I explored my new surroundings with some trepidation. Hardly
used to the idiosyncrasies of Gastonia, North Carolina, my senses were wired and seemed perfectly attuned to everything going on
around me. Friends from respective elementary schools greeted each other with all manner of youthful enthusiasm and appeared to be
genuinely excited to be back wearing their parachute pants and Black Sabbath T-shirts. I didn’t exactly share their ardor. Since
I didn’t yet know anyone at Grier except my older stepbrother [I'd gotten in a fight with him that morning,
but I can’t remember why for the life of me], I thought I'd venture to my homeroom class and do
whatever was required of me there. At which point I met a big kid named Billy Payne. Billy introduced me
to a game whose formal title, had it one, would have been Tradin’ Licks. The game’s instigator at any given
moment would begin the action by asking a smaller but willing victim, “Trade licks?” Then the two knights would calculate,
based on relative size, what exactly would be a fair distribution of blows to the other’s shoulder. In my case,
on that first day of seventh grade, I was allowed two shots at Billy’s arm while he could only pound
me once. I still wound up on the short end of the stick. I think Billy had played before. I
never played again. He was really big for seventh grade.

Upon rereading Sir Gawain and the Green Knight (by, appropriately enough, the Gawain poet) last semester, I learned some things
about Billy Payne and his favorite game that I hardly expected to glean from a senior English colloquium. I now
know that the lick traders at Grier were not just poorly educated mill town residents with inferiority complexes. These people
were actually Medieval English scholars who were just interested in recreating the adventures of their favorite hero, Sir Gawain. I
mean, this is the greatest lick-tradin’ tale of them all! Just straight one-for-one pounding, a traditionalist’s trade. For those unfamiliar
with the Gawain poet’s epic work, it goes something like this: A green guy rolls into town and challenges the
king’s court to a big duel. Arthur won’t rise to the occasion, Gawain has to save some semblance of honor
for the whole place and the sparks go a-flyin’. Basically, Gawain gets a pretty good shot in with his axe
and knocks the challenger’s emerald head right the hell off his shoulders. But the over-zealous competitor runs away anyway and
Gawain has to wait a year to receive his in turn. But he perseveres and he eventually does not get
his head lopped off in retribution. I don’t think I would have held to my end of the bargain had
I knocked off Billy’s head only to have him stand up and say he was ready for his go.

If you have gained any real insight into the nature of humanity from this little story, I am truly sorry.
I hope only to tell you people how cool I thought this was and make you realize that Medieval literature
applies to dumbass twelve-year-olds as much as it does to doctorate-laden professors. And I’ve been insanely jealous of David Scott
and Thompson getting their names in big print in The Davidsonian. "Don't Let Another Good Thing Pass You By."

I couldn’t help but to think on February, and what the month meant to different individuals. For some, February was
a loving month full of balloons, flowers, soupy cards, and enough Valentine’s candy to put anyone on a diet. Seeing
as I don’t have a sweetheart, Valentine’s Day meant very little to me. And since Davidson students didn’t get President’s
Day off (how many people besides government officials do anyway), I didn’t spend lots of time thinking of how much
money I could save during President’s Day Sales. But something about February did set me in an unusual thinking mode.
Not only is February Black History Month, but February is also the anniversary of Malcolm X’s assassination.

The section about Black History Month in the Davidsonian made me chuckle. It was funny that we highlighted other schools’
Black History Month celebrations and not Davidson’s. Besides a movie, the acapella Badgett Sisters, and some Solidarity events, we really
didn’t do much. Overlooking various cultural and ethnic holidays happens at Davidson so often that it no longer disturbs me.
For example, while much of the U.S. celebrated Dr. Martin Luther King’s National Holiday, I can’t attest to anyone here
(Davidson) even mentioning it. So by the time Black History Month rolled along, I anticipated the same recognition, but felt
too worn out to do anything about it. Honestly, I didn’t care anymore, until one morning when I spent nearly
four hours reading Ebony and Essence magazines. Every time I was about to put the magazine down, I’d see something
else that intrigued me. I soaked up the pages like a sponge. When I finally got around to picking up
my...

Landess McKelway
Continued from page 7

...the number of students requesting them. Furthermore, special agreements governing such a dorm or hall should be arrived at by
those allowed to live there. I was surprised that Mr. Terry thought he needed to describe the rules of a
quiet dorm in such stern detail. That, I should think, would be up to the...students. In any case, I want
to assure you that the faculty’s only interest in this matter is to make sure that, if there are students
who want this, the administration will provide it.

Alexander J. McKelway
Vice Chairman of the Faculty, pro tem

Continued from page 7

...ing their conduct with a minimum of specific prohibitions. Any elaborate system of rules strictly enforced might promote a surface
conformity to the standards of behavior desired but would not effectively serve to develop the maturity of character which is
the aim of the College. Rather, responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the College community
is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his/her own actions
and decisions.

As you can see, the intention of the Code of Responsibility, and the reason for its adoption, is to promote,
enhance, and develop responsibility among students at Davidson College. It proposes to do that not by providing an extensive set
of rules but by trusting in the students of the College, with the guidance of their peers, to adapt their
behavior to the circumstances of a close-knit community. If that does not occur, the Code also undertakes to provide a
mechanism to discipline those who are irresponsible. The Code of Responsibility addresses this point as well.

The Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility emphasize the individual’s involvement in and responsibility to the corporate well-being of
the College community. In keeping with the latter, it is incumbent upon every member of the College community to promote
the climate which these Codes seek to establish on the campus. This involves not only counseling with fellow members of
the College community concerning their actions but also bringing the sanctions of the judicial system to bear upon those whose
conduct is in violation of the Codes. I hope that each of us will do all we can to help
our friends and colleagues adequately and appropriately deal with complaints regarding improper conduct and to use the system in place
to address inappropriate behavior as necessary. Since each of us agreed to be governed and to govern ourselves by the
Code of Responsibility and the Honor Code when we came to Davidson, we are therefore required to do our best
to make it work. And work it will, if used properly, as many years of effective operation can attest.

Bart Landess ‘81
Development Office

Fraternities Continued from page 10

Think seriously about how you represent that house, because as it stands now, the faculty, the administration, and many in
the student body have every reason to view the whole system in the way described earlier. Fraternities and the court
as a whole can provide wonderful opportunities for personal growth, responsibility, community service, and healthy social interaction, but they must
not continue to accept the kinds of behavior and attitudes that have led to their poor description if we wish
to hold on to the system we have now.

Have an opinion? Call Chris Frampton at -6022!

Solidarity Section: Erin Lee and Tené Moore

History book (which was what I had planned to study) I realized that I had been reading history. For three
and a half hours I read about African Americans’ past and present. There was something so awe-inspiring about the articles
that I felt like I had been to the Mountain Top. After that personal experience, I decided that I wouldn’t
be apathetic toward any cultural holiday or event, because there’s no telling how special or significant that occasion is to
someone else. 1992 Black History Month has passed Davidson by, along with several other non-mentioned dates, and many more events
are on the way. Don’t let another good thing pass you by. Stay updated for further Solidarity Events. Let’s All
Work Together to Unity Davidson!

Wallace Continued from page 7

Forthcoming, it is important to be aware of each other’s views and their foundations. Many of the members of Rusk
seem to have noticed or taken to heart the positive and unpretentious steps that have already, and are continuing to
come about at SAE. Though I cannot speak for every individual by any means, I feel that there is tremendous
concern among Rusk members at the thought of punishing the SAE fraternity as a group, beyond the realm of any
possible positive outcome. We felt that our sanction against them allowed for, among other things, an opportunity to take a
hard look at what they, as a group, represent, and some incentive to change. I personally, and I believe we
as a group, would question any policy decision affecting Davidson students that would merely hurt them, build incredible resentment, and
not have any positive effects on the people involved. I offer these results and insights not so much as an
appeal on behalf of SAE, but as information to add to your set of personal factors that ultimately make up
your opinions. Though I hesitate to say that Rusk’s action was the cause of the campus investigation, I feel somewhat
responsible to clarify our position and our intent. Again, I cannot speak the opinion of each of the 212 members
of Rusk House, but I feel confident in saying that I sense a strong interest among our members in the
growth and learning opportunity provided by the recent events, which we would hate to see stifled by a hasty policy
decision.

Susan H. Wallace
President, Rusk House
