THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992 17 Sports

Davidson in the Running to Host NCAA Soccer Final Four
By Tom Price

Soccer coach Charlie Slagle recently learned that Davidson has been included among the final three schools bidding for the 1992
and 1993 NCAA soccer championships. If Davidson were to be selected as the host site, the final two games of
the NCAA tournament would be played on Richardson Field next year.

Hosting the Final Four would undoubtedly be a great boost for the Davidson program. Coach Slagle said, “The event would
give us the chance to showcase our facility, and because of the facility, also the (Davidson soccer) program.” Coach Slagle
also said the event would be “good for the whole community.” He hopes to show the NCAA that Davidson can
host a class event and also hopes that “the support of the whole community will be involved.”

The other two schools being considered are the University of South Florida and the University of Richmond. The event has
been held at South Florida the past two years. Coach Slagle said that the NCAA committee is looking to decide
the venue for the next two years, but they may decide to wait on selecting the 1993 site.

Coach Slagle and Athletic Director Terry Holland will travel to Kansas City one week from Wednesday to make a presentation
to the NCAA committee. There are six members on the selection committee, most of whom are college coaches. In the
past, their recommendations have always been accepted without debate by the NCAA Council. Slagle believes that the committee will make
their decision within the next few weeks, but the NCAA Council will not make the selection official until they meet
in May.

Slagle believes that Davidson has a legitimate chance of “winning the bid.” “We are definitely a serious contender,” he said.
The strength of the ACC soccer teams in the region is a major plus for Davidson. During the past few
years, an ACC team has almost always been among the Final Four and several ACC teams have won the championship,
including last year’s champion, UVa.

Slagle also mentioned the success the NCAA has had with “community-based” championships in tennis and baseball. In both of those
championships, communities play a large role in the events’ overall success and Slagle believes that the Davidson community could do
the same for soccer.

Slagle believes that this is the right time for Davidson to attempt to host the tournament. Richardson Stadium, with its
6,200 permanent seats, would be almost the perfect size for hosting the 1992 and 1993 championships. Slagle said that in
the past few years the event has attracted crowds ranging between 3,800 and 5,000 people. If Davidson were to wait
five years, however, Slagle thinks that the tournament may require a venue which would seat closer to 15,000.

Financially, Davidson would stand to make a modest profit from the event. The host school receives a percentage.

Comeback Falls Short As Cats Fall to Winthrop
By Bruce Page

Davidson’s men’s basketball team was handed a disheartening loss Saturday night by Winthrop. The Wildcats lost 68-67, dropping their overall
record to 5-9, 2-4 in the Big South Conference.

Davidson started out strong in the first half, leading for most of the first 15 minutes behind the strong inside
play of junior center Detlef Musch. Musch was 4 of 4 in the first half for 8 points. Toward the
end of the first half, Winthrop went on a 9-0 run, taking a 29-22 lead, but the Wildcats fought back
with a 9-3 run of their own. Janko Narat scored five points during that run, bringing the ‘Cats back to
a 32-31 deficit at the half. Narat led Davidson in the first half with 11 points.

In the second half, the Wildcats tried repeatedly to fight back and take the lead, but were foiled by the
efforts of Winthrop center Mark Hailey. Hailey, who led all scorers with 24 points, scored a quick seven points to
open the second half. The Eagles’ lead grew to 11 points with eight minutes left in the game, but the
Wildcats refused to give up. Freshman point guard Frank Harris went on a scoring tear, scoring ten points late in
the game on short, running jumpers in the paint. After whittling the margin to 68-63, Janko Narat drove the lane
and scored with 28 seconds remaining to cut the lead to three.

Winthrop then lost a home-run inbounds pass out of bounds, and Davidson brought the ball upcourt with a chance to
tie. Down 68-65, coach Bob McKillop called a play designed to find Narat open for a three-pointer. Narat got the
ball, and hit what appeared to be a game-tying shot, but the officials ruled his foot was on the line,
making it a two-pointer. The Wildcats were forced to foul, and Winthrop missed the front end of a one-and-one. Davidson
had one last chance, but a desperation shot at the buzzer fell short, and the Wildcats lost by one point.of
the gate in addition to parking and concessions. Still, the main reason Davidson is pursuing the championship is for exposure.
CBS covers the event and the attention upon Davidson would benefit the school as well as the soccer program. All
of the necessary facilities seem to be in place. Richardson Field would not require any major renovations in order to
ready the field for the games. Johnston Gym could be used as a “media center” and the Vail Commons for
the annual banquet. Slagle is hoping to motivate all elements of the Davidson community behind the event, including students. Slagle
mentioned that he believes students will be excited about the prospects of “walking a few hundred yards to see an
NCAA championship.” He also said that he is looking into the possibility of forming a student committee within the Student
Government Association to help prepare for the event.

The team and entire crowd thought it to be a three-point shot, but the officials ruled that his toe was
on the line. Only two seconds remained when Detlef Musch realized the situation and was able to stop the clock
by fouling. Carlo Wilkins missed both free throws for Winthrop, but Narat’s desperation shot from beyond half-court at the buzzer
did not fall. Commenting on the game, McKillop complained of his team’s shot selection and inability to get the ball
into the paint. “None of the guys in the paint got the shots we wanted,” he said. Narat led the
team with 17 points. Harris had 16 points and Musch 16 points and 9 rebounds for the ‘Cats. Davidson is
on the road against Samford Tuesday and returns home to play Miami of Florida on February 1.

Home Athletic Events: Jan. 27-Feb. 3
Saturday, February 1: Men’s B'ball v. Miami (FL.), 7:30
Monday, February 3: Men’s B'ball v. UNC-Wilmington

Photo By Holt Hathaway

Williams, Terrell Make Difference as UNCC Tops the Wildcat Squad
By Bruce Balestier

A career-high 26 points from sophomore guard Jason Zimmerman led Davidson in a dogged comeback effort against UNCC Tuesday night
at Charlotte Coliseum, but it wasn’t enough. The three-point shooting of 49er guards Henry Williams and James “Trigger” Terrell several
times halted second-half Wildcat rallies, as 19th-ranked UNCC struggled to an 82-70 win over Davidson. The victory gave UNCC the
Hornet’s Nest trophy, representative of supremacy in the rivalry, for the sixth consecutive year.

The fairly competitive game that actually occurred seemed improbable after UNCC sprinted to a large early lead. Thanks to Davidson’s
numerous turnovers and generally tentative play, the 49ers took a 26-9 lead with 8:35 left in the half, and the
game seemed on the verge of becoming an enormous blowout. The barely diminished lead stood at 29-13 with 5:50 to
go in the half when Davidson began its surge to get within striking distance. Wildcat center Detlef Musch shouted, “Gimme
the ball,” got it and hit a jump-hook in the paint for the first points in a 6-0 run that
brought Davidson within 29-19, and kept the game competitive. UNCC took a 33-21 advantage into the locker room at halftime.

UNCC seemed once again to put the game away with a 12-2 run launched early in the second half. Terrell’s
pull-up jumper gave the 49ers a 45-25 cushion with 15:11 left. But Davidson came back behind Zimmerman. He scored 10
of the ‘Cats’ next 13 points to cut the lead to 51-38 before Terrell shut the door with a three-pointer.
The lead grew to 18 points, but the Wildcats fought back again; Musch’s two foul shots brought Davidson to within
61-50 at the 7:48 mark. Williams responded with a three-point shot for a 64-50 spread with 7:26 left, then hit
another just over a minute later for an insurmountable 69-52 lead. To their credit, the ‘Cats played aggressive, opportunistic basketball
until the buzzer sounded; Janko Narat and J.D. Heuer each hit three-pointers in the final 70 seconds to account for
the final margin.

Davidson coach Bob McKillop gave credit to Terrell and Williams after the game. “Every time we made a run on
them, they responded with a three-point shot,” he said. Terrell and Williams were a combined 7 of 14 from three-point
range. UNCC shot 59.6% for the game, including 78.3% in the second half.

Zimmerman’s performance Tuesday marked one of the first times this season that he has found the scoring touch which he
exhibited during much of last year. Zimmerman hit on 7-15 from the floor and 8-9 from the line. Musch dominated
the UNCC frontline with 17 points and 9 rebounds. Narat added 16 points and 7 boards.
