THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

Presidents Continued from page 2

install guidelines in their charter regarding acceptable behavior for all members of Connor House as well as the members of
Patterson Court regarding their treatment of Connor House property and members. Way believes that “if you haven’t made public what
behavior you expect, you have no basis for criticism,” and that some responsibility has to be given to the rest
of the court to “step in and say ‘Don’t do that’.” Way also said, “If we don’t monitor ourselves, we
will lose our privileges on the Court, or maybe even the Court itself.”

Travis Hinson of The Black Student Coalition believes that the Report is a “necessary and true publication.” His main question
is, “What took people so long to realize that there was a problem?” He, himself has “been experiencing problems for
the last three years.” The Report to Hinson is “extremely fair,” but when asked if it will be helpful, he
answered, “That remains to be seen.” Hinson noted that “nothing came out of” a report entitled Project ‘87, which focused
on minorities at Davidson, explaining his “skeptical” view that “this one will help.”

Regarding the recommendation for a “true” self-selection process, Hinson stated that “if they made everything open, they might as well
do away with fraternities.” He does not agree with this recommendation, but suggests that “fraternities should be more closely monitored,”
and that “there is a lot that goes on that the administration does not know about.” The placement of a
residence of an administrator on the court is “a good idea,” according to Hinson. Regarding SAE specifically, Hinson believes that
there should be a “suspension for some period of time,” but he “would be surprised if they will actually be
suspended.” Hinson also states that “BSC has openly tried to establish a more open relationship with SAE” and that he
“personally has no problems with the fraternity.” However, he also stated that “if the allegations are true [as stated in
the Report], they do need suspension.”

The Report will be presented and discussed at BSC, but Hinson noted that “not much in the Report will affect
BSC because it is not an exclusive organization, contrary to what people may think, it is not only open to
Black students.” BSC is also a “dry house, so the only topic for discussion might be the alcohol policy.”

Zama Neff of Spencer House stated that the Report is a “timely investigation,” but in “some parts seem a little
vague.” Neff stated that the Report “brings rumors and problems together and focuses them in a comprehensive approach.” Neff believes
the address of the “fear of reporting sexual assault will better the system that now exists,” but questions “how effective
the revisions of Patterson Court will be.” Should the self-selection system go to a lottery system, Neff believes it will
be “difficult for the women’s houses to exist as separate social clubs.” The allegations against the Dean of Students Office
seem “vague” to Neff, which seems to point to the fact that they are “afraid to come out and say”
their true findings, and Neff declined to comment on the specific allegations and recommendations of the Report regarding SAE. Neff
stated her hope that the Report will “encourage the college to create more steps to combat the fear of reporting
sexual assault, or to at least educate students on these matters.” Spencer will have a discussion of this Report at
their next House Meeting, and Neff finally stated that this Report is “not only a basis for discussion, but also
a basis for action.”

Stuart Hardy of Pi Kappa Alpha believes that the Report was “needed, but overdone,” and that “the problems they blame
on SAE happen everywhere.” Regarding SAE, Hardy points out that “it is not a house problem, it is an individual
one. If the members of SAE had disciplined themselves individually to begin with, they would have kept the house from
going down with them.” Hardy went on to say that “it is harsh to make the whole house suffer for
the actions of individuals.” Hardy also mentioned the recommendation of the lottery system for membership to eating houses: “It would
be like moving the dorms down to the Court. You should have someplace to go to associate with people who
have your common interests.” Regarding the Dean of Student’s Office, Hardy stated that it is “not as efficient as it
could be.” Hardy plans to present the Report to the brothers of Pika at their House Meeting, Monday, March 23,
and highlight the main points to look for possible solutions within Pika itself as well as all of Patterson Court.

Mandy Aycock of Warner Hall also believes that the Report “needed to be done because of so much disturbance on
campus,” but also recognizes the fact that the “people were there to state a problem, which explains the negative tone
of the whole report.” Regarding the current self-selectionProcess, Aycock stated that “it works very well for women,” and, using the
creation of Connor House as an example, she declares that “people can do what they want.” If the self-selection system
was modified as outlined in the Report, Aycock thinks “it would take something away for women,” and “it would basically
do away with fraternities, and drive clubs off-campus.” Regarding the recommendations for SAE specifically, Aycock first points out an error
in the Report. On page 4, the Report refers to the “recent boycotting of SAE by Warner Hall.” Aycock would
like to publicly correct this mistake; Warner Hall did not boycott SAE. Aycock also stated that the recommendations for SAE
are “extremely harsh” and “overly strict.” Aycock said, “A few things have happened, so notice must be taken, but there
definitely is a problem with the college environment in general. I think they were harsh on SAE.” Aycock would like
to see recommendations that “modify behavior instead of putting a halt to the whole fraternity.” Aycock is not planning on
presenting this Report to Warner Hall.

Chris Malanuk of The Kappa Alpha Order stated that the Report is “definitely biased.” A “small” and there was “more
faculty input than student input,” says Malanuk. The major problem that Malanuk finds with the situation on campus is the
"lack of communication between the faculty and the Court.” Malanuk stated that the faculty and administration “hear of no good
attributes of the Court, they only react to the bad things.” Malanuk refers to the Report’s statement that Patterson Court
“encourages good people to behave badly” (p. 10). What the administration does not take into account, according to Malanuk, are
“all the leadership roles Patterson Court creates on campus, and the attributes of Court life in general, from social life,
to friendships to service, encompassed.” Regarding the recommendations for a “true” self-selection, Malanuk believes that “the social life of Davidson
would move off-campus, which would be most detrimental, and would further the lack of communication between the school and the
Court.” Malanuk stated that it “seems that nothing was actually proven” regarding the allegations against SAE specifically. Malanuk also stated
that the “punishment recommended is a bit severe,” and points out that the problems stated are “acts more of individuals
than the house as a whole.” Malanuk also stated that “Dean Terry is unjustly blamed for the general problems of
the Court. Dean Terry is the only person to make an earnest and effective measure to communicate with the Court.”
In closing, Malanuk stated that “with such a small scale investigation, to go on to say the whole fraternity system
should be abolished based on only the negative aspects is going way out of line.” Malanuk presented the Report to
the members of KA at a House Meeting last Monday in an attempt to “try to maintain responsible behavior, including
drinking behavior.”

Susan Wallace of Rusk House stated that the Report serves as a “catalyst for more discussion and debate, and it
should lead to more research.” Wallace is “glad to see President Kuykendall take action,” and stated that “the committee did
a fair job in soliciting comments.” One thing that the committee “failed to point out is that these things happen
at a lot of fraternities, such as fighting and harassment,” according to Wallace. Regarding SAE, Wallace stated that “they have
taken the brunt of the punishment, and are victimized in the report.” The recommendation to suspend the fraternity is “not
very healthy,” Wallace added, “because no one will learn.”

See "Presidents" on page 4

PROGRAM
Clubs. Earn up to $1000 in one week. Plus receive a bonus yourself. And a FREE WATCH just for calling
1-800-932-0528 Ext. 65.

M.D. JD. M.B.A.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.
LSAT °GMAT ° GRE ° MCAT

FUNDRAISING
Fraternities, sororities, student clubs. Earn up to $1000 in one week. Plus receive a $1000 bonus yourself. And a FREE
WATCH just for calling 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 65.

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD and live with British Students

HOW WISC IS DIFFERENT FROM MOST OVERSEAS PROGRAMS:
- Accepted students receive admissions letters (and later transcripts) directly from a full college of Oxford University.
- Students are directly enrolled as full students of the Oxford college. Qualified students who apply early may have a
choice among six full colleges: St. Catherine's, St. Edmund Hall, Hertford, Keble, St. Antony's, and New College.
- Qualified early applicants may share a co-ed Student Residence associated with St. Catherine's College, Oxford (fully integrated with British
students).
- Students accepted before May 1 (for next year) are guaranteed housing with British students.
- Students will NOT be taught in (and receive transcripts from) an American college operating in Oxford. WISC is one
of the few completely integrated (academically and in housing) overseas programs in the UK.
- Previous students from your college or in your field will speak to you on the phone.

For information, call or write:
THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES COUNCIL
214 Massachusetts Avenue N.E., Suite 450, Washington, DC 20002, (800) 323-WISC
