THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992

Swimmers and Divers Prepare to Host Southern States Meet
By Chris Hood

Despite being swept by UNC-Wilmington’s swimming and diving squads at home on January 26, Davidson head coach Ron Morrow was satisfied with the 'Cats performances. “Our teams continued their outstanding swimming and diving,” he explained, noting that many 'Cats turned in personal best times and scores. Hayler Osborn, who topped the 100-yard breaststroke school record he established a day earlier, exemplified this progression.

Davidson was to return to action this Saturday morning at Cannon Pool against Florida A&M, but the Rattlers chose not to make the trek to face the 'Cats. This weekend, Davidson hosts the Southern States Swimming and Diving Championships. The twelve schools scheduled to attend comprise what Morrow calls an “extremely competitive field.”

“We have been tapering towards the big meet, and we hope to be good hosts as well as competitive,” Morrow continued. He also asked that anyone interested in volunteering to help keep track of times this weekend call him at -2812 for more information.

Otrok, Richardson Excel at Clemson Meet
By Peter Hurtado

Two weeks of men’s indoor track and field action was highlighted by the spirited running of the squad’s two seniors: at the US Air Invitational last weekend at ETSU and this weekend at the Clemson Invitational. Chris Otrok and co-captain Ted Richardson worked together in the 3000m at Clemson this weekend to post spectacular times. Otrok (8:55.5) becomes Davidson’s 4th best ever in the 3000m, while Richardson, who already holds the 2nd best 3000m in Davidson history, was a tick behind at 8:55.8.

Richardson raced to a 15:55.5 clocking in the 5000m run at ETSU, and he has now run two out of the fastest four indoor 5000m runs ever by a Davidson athlete. Chris Otrok followed suit, finishing the 3000m run in a fast 9:10.9. Both seniors are having outstanding seasons and are creating high expectations for each other this spring.

At the Lynchburg Invitational on Jan. 25, the Davidson squad turned in several fine performances. DJ Ruggles posted fine efforts in the long and triple jumps, highlighted by a jump of 20' 1/4". The mid-distance crew of John Alsobrook and Joe Beach had a busy day, having promising performances in the 400m for Beach (54.6) and in the 600 yards for Alsobrook.YOOMS "and $3800 annual spend (that means CHIAPET money), and join a diverse group of exciting men and women who make exercise a little bit easier. It's great, and it's sexy. If you're a Division I or Senior, apply now! (Deadline: Feb. 2nd). Alsobrook (1:25.9).

Grubb Continued from page 1
...man pushers to the Vikings as a backup placekicker. Not really, but my point is that Walker should stick to golf in the off-season and I have always wanted to use Rolf Benerschke’s name in a column.

Figure Skating: For my money, I’d rather watch the biathlon. It might be worth your while to check out a little bit of the coverage to catch Katarina Witt’s commentary.

Skiing: The men’s downhill promised to be the most exciting in recent history due to the tough course which caused a record number of skiers to crash during training. This could potentially be as much fun as a NASCAR race.

Ski Jumping: I thought that they stopped this sport after the guy on the Wide World of Sports opening sequence crashed.

Wrestling Continued from page 13
The team could have placed even higher except for a neck injury to Giorgio Hiatt two days before the tournament. “Giorgio’s points were the difference between fourth place and second place,” said Oddo. Knowles’s match against Kevin McSherry of Longwood was one of the highlights of the tournament for Davidson. Knowles allowed McSherry to have all five of his points in the 9-5 victory. “This was a huge win against a tough opponent,” said Oddo.

G.A. McClung also impressed Oddo with a tenacious comeback. McClung’s Washington and Lee opponent forced him to take an injury time-out when a body slam caused McClung to black out. McClung recovered and went on to win the match 8-5. “G.A. just beat the tar out of the guy after the time-out,” said Oddo.

Davidson wrestled Georgia State on Saturday and Eastern Illinois and the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga on Sunday. Results were unavailable at press time.

If you want to know what it's like to order from the competition, stare at this empty plate for 45 minutes. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

Don't wait on a slow delivery from those other guys, call Domino's Pizza® for a hot, fresh pizza delivered in 30 minutes or less. NOBODY 896-8007 Shops on the Green 4pm-12am Mon.-Thurs. 11am-1am Fri. & Sat. 12pm-12am Sun. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

MONDAY MADNESS February Late Night Special
Order your favorite large pizza after 10pm only for the price of a small. Offer expires Feb. 16, 1992. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. Cash value 1/20¢. ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.