THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1992

Trial Continued from page 4

Members then met privately and decided to call back two witnesses. Lopez was the first person brought back. Carter Payne
asked that the message be replayed and asked Lopez to explain his specific reaction to the wording of the message.
Lopez said, “I was pissed off man, just the way he called me nigger.” He said, “I didn’t see racial
tension at this school, when I got the message it opened my eyes that there was a lot of tension
at this school that a lot of people didn’t see.”

Atchison was then asked to answer more questions from the council. He was asked what he believed his staying on
campus would have on black students. After a long silence, Atchison said it would give him an opportunity to convince
them that he wasn’t a bad person. He said he would do this by talking to them and explaining what
happened in the trial and on November 23. He also said he would be a responsible member of the community
and would work to keep friends with the minority students that he knew.

Atchison said, “My call wasn’t directed towards the student body. I feel that by it being played (at the forum)
I’ve been tried for spreading racial slurs.” He said, “I did break the Code of Responsibility and deserve sanctions.” Atchison
also stated that by remaining on campus he could go about reconciling himself with the people he has inadvertently hurt.
He said he would maintain a high character and would be open to conversation with others.

Atchison was asked if it would be beneficial for him to be absent from the Davidson community. He said he
believed it would not benefit him or the community because it would allow the slander placed on his character to
stand. He said that if he was suspended people would say, “They kicked him out, he was a racist.”

The trial was heading into the early hours of Saturday morning when the defense and solicitors presented their closing statements.
Mimi Plauche stated that the solicitors sought a sanction that acknowledged Atchison’s responsibility for the phone message. Plauche explained how
Lopez’s initial reaction was one of hurt which then transformed into a feeling of anger. She said, “The content (of
the message) is neither excusable nor tolerable.” They repeated their call for immediate suspension and asked that he be required
to complete 150 to 250 hours of community service in the fall. They also suggested that Atchison undergo alcohol counseling.

Brendan O’Sullivan presented the closing statement for the defense. O’Sullivan stated five important aspects which he believed

Fraternities By Towner Blackstock

The history of Davidson’s Greek-letter organizations is certainly a colorful one, spanning from the antebellum days and the Civil War
to the present. During that 134 years, Davidson has seen fifteen national fraternities and at least eight local ones. With
such prolific organization, one would think fraternities have been very popular; however, secret societies at Davidson have had to survive
an interestingly mixed life of rejection, opposition, or support from students, faculty, administration, and elsewhere.

During the period before the Civil War, the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies had provided the bulk of social interaction
for the isolated men of Davidson. However, the societies focused mainly on academic pursuits like public speaking and essays, and
really constituted an addition to the college curriculum, albeit one run by the students. A social gap existed that longed
to be filled.

At this same time, fraternal groups all over the nation were seeking to expand their memberships to other colleges. A
representative from Beta Theta Pi at Chapel Hill arrived at Davidson in 1857, and apparently initiated three students the following
January. These were not men disenchanted with the literary societies. On the contrary, two of these three were presidents of
Eu and Phi. They simply wanted an alternative, and they were not the only ones, as Chi Phi established a
Davidson chapter in 1859. These organizations grew to about 13 men each, but they were apparently kept very secret. The
1858 Betas were not even mentioned in the first official history of the college, written in 1923!

It was for good reason that these groups stayed underground. The times and the religious affiliation of Davidson were not
especially receptive to secretive organizations, hidden from the rigid eye of the faculty, or to their tendency towards undesirable conduct.
An 1861 letter to a Beta’s friend read, “we celebrated our anniversary not long ago in a grand style... wound
up with some choice Scuppernong wine with which I became gloriously oblivious of the cares of this world.” Such activity,
if exposed, would have surely brought a score of anti-fraternity rulings, and in fact it did after the Civil War.

With the secession of South Carolina from the Union, many students purchased guns and began to drill. In April of
1861, President Lincoln called for volunteers, and nearly the entire campus left for war and home. One Beta lowered the
minutes and constitution down the hollow columns of Old Chambers for safekeeping. The only Davidson fraternities became almost instantly dormant.
Although some of the students returned after the war and Beta’s books were retrieved, the groups were not to be
reorganized right off. The faculty, in July 1866, made it illegal “to form or unite with any Secret Club or
association, other than the Literary Societies already established.” Beta tried to reorganize both in 1866 and in the early 1870s,
both times to no avail. Chi Phi returned in 1867, but became inactive within just two years. When the Pi
Kappa Alpha chapter in 1869 was established and showed its badges, the faculty immediately disapproved, and according to the college
history, “the Chapter cheerfully acquiesced and returned its charter to the home Chapter.”

In 1880, however, Kappa Alpha established a chapter, followed three years later by Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Another fraternity, the Mystic
Seven, colonized at Davidson in the Spring of 1884. About a year later, the faculty ended the ban on secret
societies, and promptly granted rooms in Old Chambers for use as meeting areas by the groups. This set a precedent
for previously unknown cooperation between college and student fraternities-- and established a good basis for faculty control of the groups,
if ever needed.

One must remember that Davidson was a strict Presbyterian school, with drinking, gambling, cards, pool, and (sin of sins) dancing
all banned. But in the 1890s, the fraternities seemed to bloom and even slip from the gaze of authority. A
chapter of Kappa Sigma was established, while the Mystic Seven group had taken up the old Beta Theta Pi chapter.
Big social events were held about twice a year, with some groups even holding dances in Charlotte. Most entertainment, however,
took theForm of “feeders” and athletics. The Greeks formed a Pan-Hellenic committee, which studied rushing tactics, which were at the
time completely unrestricted. Some freshmen were bidded (and initiated—there was no pledge period then) the day they arrived on campus,
and a few even before! Upperclassmen could and would arrange to room with freshmen rushees. With such tactics, it is
hardly surprising that 42 percent of Davidson’s men were members of fraternities in March, 1892. There was, however, opposition to
the fraternities from a few parties. 54 students signed a petition to the faculty in 1894 calling for abolishing fraternities,
but nothing came of it. Four years later the Albemarle Presbytery requested “the Board of Trustees, under the advice of
the Faculty, to consider the removal of the Evil of Secret Fraternities from the College.” The Trustees promptly listed that
as “inexpedient.”

Change did come to the fraternities, but slowly. The Pan-Hellenic council decided that no bid, in fact not even the
mention of fraternity, was to be issued to rushees until the Monday following Christmas holidays. Rushing went unrestricted otherwise, with
dinners and other entertainments given by the various competing groups. The basis for Davidson’s current system can be traced to
this first set of regulations. Yet the all-out efforts continued, with social activities, especially informal ones, increasing in number and
magnitude yearly. Beta Theta Pi even had its own tennis court for the purpose of rushing. By this time, the
fraternities were tired of the cramped rooms in Old Chambers, and so was everyone else. Because the meeting rooms were
amidst dorm rooms, the “incessant” player pianos and phonographs kept people up at night, or from studying in the day.
The faculty and the trustees decided in May of 1914 that the downstairs of the literary halls, Oak Row, and
Elm Row would be opened up for use as meeting and social halls. By 1917, the halls were occupied and
furnished quite comfortably, just in time for World War I. The Great War did not displace the fraternities at all
like the Civil War did. The Student Army Training Corps did, though. At the opening of school in 1918, every
able student was required to become an active duty soldier in training. Classes continued only for the 60 who did
not qualify for this enviable position. The commandant enforced strict military rules, including the restriction of rush, bidding, pledging, and
initiation to just two days! He also shut down the fraternity halls in October. Fortunately, the Armistice allowed the SATC
to disband in December, much to the relief of all. But many students returned from overseas duty, and the fraternities
picked right back up in an upward movement. Only one group, Pi Kappa Phi, folded during the war; it had
been established in 1912, but would return in 1924. A couple of local groups folded in ’22 and ’24, but
three others quickly replaced them. The Bachelor’s Club, founded in 1913, petitioned Phi Gamma Delta, and was granted a charter
in 1923. With all of this growth, many changes were wrought. Rushing took another turn, when the bidding date moved
back to December 15 in 1923. Every following year, the date moved further and further up in order to make
room for a longer pledge period. The rooming of freshmen and upperclassmen ended at the same time, which was timely
considering that Old Chambers burned to the ground in 1921. In the social scene, the oration of the big weekends
finally ended, and dances took their place, becoming more and more common as the twenties progressed. But perhaps the biggest
change came with the decision to let the groups build their own houses. Well, sort of. All of the fraternities
went nuts when they heard they could move into their own houses. Many already ate in local boarding houses, so
this was very well received, especially when the faculty announced in May of ’24 that the old halls had to
be empty in one year. But then in the fall, the faculty limited board in the houses to juniors and
seniors and required the houses to be on Davidson property and 75 percent of the construction money to be held
when building commenced. Then the trustees said they only needed 60 percent of the funds if the building would be
lived in, but that they could borrow money for a social and meeting hall with a top cost of $5000.
In the meantime, most fraternities rented out whole boarding houses, which soon proved expensive, rowdy, and tiresome after a couple
of years. Needless to say, everybody grew tired of the division and the indecision, yet the wait proved worthwhile. The
Board of Trustees adopted a plan in February, 1928, to build and rent houses to the fraternities on land situated
between Concord Road and the gym. The college would own the property, the houses would be in the same style
of architecture (with minor differences), and there would be no real dining or living facilities. Although nothing shocking to today’s
student, the idea proved innovative to the collegiate world of the time. Many advantages sprang from the arrangement. All students
lived in the dorms and the fraternities were all in close proximity, which proved to keep relations amiable and improve
Davidson spirit. Plus, the fraternities were nearly debt-free.

See "Fraternities" on page 6

---

He said that Atchison admitted his guilt and was not forced to confess to leaving the message. O’Sullivan’s second point
was that Atchison was on trial for this single call only and should not be a scapegoat for campus tension.
He said that Atchison’s action was not motivated by racial considerations. His fourth point was that Atchison’s action was focused
on one individual and the two have made steps towards reconciliation. O’Sullivan’s final point was that Atchison asked for an
open trial because he was aware of the problems his message has caused in the community. He said Atchison wanted
a chance to get the lines of communication open again. O’Sullivan said that the Code of Responsibility stated there should
be “no excessive penalties.” Therefore, he stated that the defense believed that Atchison should not be suspended and that the
council should impose sanctions that are completely just. “He realized he transgressed the spirit of the Code. We need to
teach him tolerance,” said O’Sullivan. He said, “Kicking him out won’t accomplish this, it won’t benefit Phil or the community.”
O’Sullivan said that the defense believed that Atchison should have to learn responsibility. He then listed six sanctions that he
believed Atchison should receive. These penalties were the same ones that the council decided to enjoin upon Atchison, except that
the Council added more length to his social and alcohol probation and recommended that he write the two articles for
the Davidsonian. The public part of the trial concluded at 12:45 am early Saturday morning after O’Sullivan’s closing statement.
