16 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Quarterback Richard Howell drops back to pass in the 'Cats Homecoming loss to Washington and Lee.

Hampden-Sydney Ends Football Win Streak at Two
By Chris Hood

Though Davidson’s football team entered Saturday’s contest at Hampden-Sydney with a two-game winning streak, it was the Tigers who jumped out early in ending their own losing streak at three games and handing the ‘Cats, now 3-5, a 35-18 setback.

Hampden-Sydney quarterback Bryan Crist, who threw for 274 yards and three touchdowns, and fullback Cedric Gayles, who hauled in a pair of Crist’s touchdown passes and scored one on the ground, were two of the Tigers’ main weapons. Running back Chad Duncan added 109 yards rushing.

The ‘Cats fell behind 21-0 at the half before mounting an offensive charge. Quarterback Kevin Holzworth replaced Richard Howell, who struggled to complete one of nine passes with a pair of interceptions, and guided Davidson to touchdowns on each of its first three possessions of the second half. He threw touchdown passes of 80 and four yards to Bruce Bannister and Dan Lamar, respectively, and scored the third himself on a four-yard run. The ‘Cats failed on all three conversion attempts.

Despite the offensive flurry, Davidson’s defense could not hold the Tigers’ attack. Gayles ran for a 37-yard score and caught a 50-yard strike from Crist for the Tigers’ two touchdowns of the second half.

The previous week, Davidson’s offense exploded for its highest-scoring game of the season in dropping Charleston Southern at home 32-27. The five-point margin was by far the narrowest of the season; the win was also significant because Davidson proved it could come from behind and take a close match.

As has been the case through-

See "Football" on page 14

Volleyball Team Battles Southern Conference Foes
By Janet Delery

The Davidson volleyball team continued to show steady improvement as it faced four Southern Conference opponents over the past 10 days. With the Southern Conference tournament three weeks away, the Wildcats are concentrating on becoming familiar with the Southern Conference teams and earning a solid seed for the tournament.

On the weekend of October 23-24, the Wildcats won back-to-back conference matches at home against Marshall and Georgia Southern. Exceptionally strong defense in defeating Marshall 16-14, 17-15, 15-10. Michele Augustin led the defense with 17 digs, while Janet Delery’s 18 kills and Jennie Wagner’s four service aces sparked the offense.

The following afternoon, the Wildcats defeated Georgia Southern in an exciting five-game match 15-11, 15-9, 9-15, 6-15, 15-12. After losing the third and fourth games and falling behind 0-4 in the fifth game, the Wildcats displayed poise and intensity in putting together a strong run to win the fifth game. Augustin once again led the Wildcats with 27 digs.

Last Tuesday, Davidson visited Campbell for a non-conference match. Plagued by service reception lapses, the Wildcats fell to the Camels 15-8, 5-15, 10-15, 15-4, 6-15. Amy Howard’s seven service aces, Wagner’s 17 digs,

See "Volley" on page 15

'Cats Upset #2 UCLA to Gain Highest Ranking Ever
But Losses to Coastal and Furman Put Tournament Bid in Jeopardy
By Bruce Balestier

With a 3-1 win over then second-ranked UCLA and a 4-0 win against UNC-Greensboro and Georgia Southern, the ‘Cats lost 3-0 at Coastal Carolina and fell to 6th in the South. The consensus of opinion is that Davidson must win its final five games, including a three-game sweep of the conference.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Tourna- = over Cal State-Fullerton, the Greenville, S.C., the team fell to ment next Davidson weekend in men’s soccer f& : =) Greensboro, to eee Solent yee ~ Scoring | have a shot at ‘the i an NCAA MetLife Clas- Goals ‘Assis eo Tournament sic in Los An- Rob Ukrop 24 see 55 berth. The geles over Fall John Sampers 8 8 24 ‘Cats survived Break, and Ben Hayes vi 5 19 a scare from cate ue Cliff Castelloe 4 el Ra SG “Winthrop in highest rank- Matt Spear _ i) 6 10 taking a 2-1 ing in the his- ‘ aes overtime win tory of the pro- national leader _ in their gram in the penultimate October 21 regular-season polls (#9 game Friday ISAA, 2nd in night. South region, #12 Soccer, Davidson 3 America). 11-4-3 and lost the Southern Con- UCLA 1 But the success was short- ference championship in a 3-2 loss The “Cats used uncharacteris- See "Soccer" on page 15

Field Hockey Earns First-Ever Regional Ranking in South By Jennifer Roos

Davidson’s field hockey team is ranked number seven in the Southern region, marking the school's first-ever ranking in the sport. Its record stands at 12-2-1, and it has the possibility of winning three more games for its highest victory total ever in a season. In addition, Davidson has earned ten shutouts and outscored its opponents 28-6. The Wildcats have won five consecutive games since fall break, over St. Louis, Louisville, Longwood, James Madison, and Virginia Tech. Davidson traveled to Louisville, Ky. over fall break and faced St. Louis and Louisville. Sophomore Andrea Short scored the only goal for the Wildcats in the second half while the defense held off a strong comeback by St. Louis. Sophomore Missy Potts, the team’s leading scorer with five goals, scored off an assist by senior Jacquelin Ukrop to take an early lead against Louisville 1-0. Then, senior Simone Plaisance scored the second goal of the game in the second half. The final score was 2-1. The Wildcats faced Longwood, which was hoping to earn a bid to the NCAA Division II tournament with a win, October 24. Davidson controlled the first half but could not score until four minutes remained in the game, when Ukrop came through with her first goal of the season. Senior Monique Dockter added another goal with 22 seconds left, ensuring the win and knocking Longwood See "Hockey" on page 13

Women’s Soccer Mashes UNC-Asheville 10-0 in Home Finale By Jen Lake

The Davidson women’s soccer team assured itself of its second successive winning record with wins over UNC-Asheville and Campbell this week. The team finished the season with a 10-8-1 record. The final three weeks were the most difficult of the season for the Wildcats; they struggled to a 2-4-1 record against frustratingly tough competition from N.C. State, Dayton, and Kentucky. That stretch of games included a controversial 1-1 tie with Vanderbilt, in which the potential winning goal in overtime was disallowed. The ball was shot just seconds before the final whistle was blown, and, in the referee’s eyes, did not cross the goal line before the game was called. Said coach Kevin Hundley about the competitive string of games, “Going into the Elon game we knew we were about to enter the longest stretch of the most testing games that we were to have this season. The rest of our competition at this point were Division I teams except Elon, [which is] ranked 12th in the country for the NAIA division.” See "Women's Soccer" on page 13