20 THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Musch Scores 22 As Men's Hoops Tops St. Joseph's

By Chris Hood

Detlef Musch burned St. Joseph’s for 22 points, Janko Narat added 19 and a host of newcomers gained vital experience
Wednesday night as the Wildcats handed St. Joseph’s their first loss in five contests, 98-78. The contest was the first
for Davidson, which earned a 107-90 exhibition victory over Imortal Desportivo the previous Friday.

The Monks, fourth-ranked in NAIA Division II, came out firing three-pointers from the start, holding the lead until George Spain’s
basket while he was fouled with 11:15 to play in the first half. Spain’s bucket put the ‘Cats up 20-18;
Detlef Musch hit both ends of a one-and-one three-and-a-half minutes later to give Davidson a 26-25 advantage it would never
relinquish. Davidson led 42-36 at the half, and St. Joseph’s kept hitting bombs to open the second half, but two
runs by the ‘Cats put the game out of reach for the visitors. Narat knocked down a three-pointer and hit
a pair of free throws as Davidson scored nine unanswered points near the midway mark of the half, and the
‘Cats held the Monks scoreless for four minutes late in the game to assure themselves of the win. Chris Alpert
scored a pair of baskets as Davidson increased its 84-72 lead by 10 between the 5:08 and 1:09 marks.

“I don’t really like to play these kinds of games where we have to win,” said Musch, who led all
scorers. Zimmerman and Spain each tallied 13 points; Musch’s 13 rebounds were tops for either team, and Narat pulled down
10. “Any time you win, you’re delighted,” head coach Bob McKillop commented. “St. Joseph’s did what they had to in
order to stay in the game, and we’ll have to do better defensively.” The Monks’ 15-for-32 three-point shooting kept the
game competitive for much of the evening.

The Davidson bench contributed 38 points and a huge boost for the starters. Alpert, a freshman, spent a good bit
of time relieving Zimmerman at point guard and nailed five of six from the floor for 10 points, Spain hit
six of eight and one free throw for 13, and Ron Horton scored six. Freshmen Jeff Anderson (who started) and
Brandon Williams also had six points apiece, showing excellent athletic ability mixed in with occasional reminders that they are freshmen.

Against Imortal Desportivo, the ‘Cats broke open a close contest with an 11-0 run midway through the half to take
a 34-18 lead over the visitors. Narat followed a running dunk by Anderson with a pair of layups and a
three-pointer from the baseline, and Davidson enjoyed a comfortable lead for the rest of the match. “I think the first
half was the best half of basketball we’ve played.”

See “Musch" on page 19

Surging Swimmers Prepare to Face Keydets, Rambling Wreck

By Will Cobb

The Davidson swimming and diving team has been extremely busy improving times and competing against other schools during the past
month. The Davidson squads faced Howard and North Carolina early in November, and beat both teams soundly in both women’s
and men’s competition. It was the team’s first home meet, and times continued to drop. Coach Ron Morrow remarked, “All
the 1991 team records were shattered in our first home meet; the team is much further ahead than at this
point last year.”

Freshman Churchill Hooff continued to perform well, taking first in the 1000 and 100 meter freestyle. The men’s 400 meter
freestyle relay (Kevin Boler, Carlton Craig, Hooff, and Dave Martin) set a school record and displays the potential for possible
participation in the NCAA competition in the spring.

In women’s competition, senior Tracy Barwick took first place in the 200 meter butterfly with a time of 2:32.07. Sophomore
Rebecca Falkenburg won the 50 meter freestyle and freshman Wendy Johnson handily won the 200 meter individual medley with an
impressive time of 2:27.88. Although they faced no competition from the Bison or Tar Heels, the diving teams went through
a set of dives and scored well.

On November 14, the women’s team took to the pool against Pfeiffer and Salem, and defeated them by scores of
144-95 and 189-37, respectively. Johnson took both the 200 meter individual medley and the 100 meter freestyle. Jennifer Schuetz earned
a team-high 17 points in the competition. Meg Bentley and diver Paige Hull each scored 13 points for Davidson. Morrow
was pleased with the team’s performance in the meet.

The Wildcats faced their toughest test of the year to date in a home meet against Georgia Southern and East
Carolina November 21. The women’s diving team defeated both schools while the men fell short against the traditionally powerful ECU
squad. Caroline Prioleau won the three meter diving competition, while...Freshmen Cart deBrux and sophomore Thad Reece had outstanding performances in
one and three meter diving. Johnson and Schuetz continued their outstanding performances in the pool by winning convincingly. Hooff again
dropped his time in the 1000 meter freestyle, this time breaking the 10-minute mark; he also did well in the
500 meter freestyle and 200 meter individual medley as well. Craig swam extremely well, taking the 200 meter freestyle, and
senior Hayler Osborn continued his dominance in the 200 meter breaststroke. The next meet for the team will be this
Saturday at 1:00 p.m. at Cannon Pool against Georgia Tech and VMI. “We are looking to beat VMI,” Morrow said,
“but Georgia Tech will be extremely tough. Hopefully, our swimmers will be able to lower their times again.”

KA Wins 2nd Straight Flickerball Title
By Jim Tayberry

In the championship game of the Men’s Division I flickerball tournament several weeks ago, the winner of the loser’s bracket,
Just Average Guys (representing Sigma Phi Epsilon), were defeated in a close game 31-25 by Crunch-N-Munch (representing Kappa Alpha). It
was Crunch-N-Munch’s second successive Division I title. KA got off to an early lead, but Sig Ep fought hard and
kept the game close. KA used a no-huddle, hurry-up offense in its march to victory. Arthur Morehead, Crunch’s quarterback, had
a solid game as he completed short passes over the middle to keep drives alive. Eric Gilbert, David Clingman, Matt
Cox, Matt Woodlief, Tom Price, and Morehead all played well for the Crunchers. Glenn Smith just wasn’t much of a
factor.

In the final of Men’s Division II flickerball, 2nd West Belk smashed the very spirited and loud 3rd East Belk.
The dandy hall counselor duo of Chris Shields and Richard Rivera led their Freshman squad through a dominating season.

See "Smith" on page 19

Photo by Casey Rogers
Senior Jennifer Roos aids the Wildcats in their return as a varsity sport at Davidson. The team opened the 1992-93
campaign with a victory over Ferrum.

Women's Hoops Returns to Drill Ferrum
By Chris Hood

When Tonya Sharpe hit a layup 57 seconds into Tuesday night’s women’s basketball season opener against Ferrum, she did more
than open the year’s scoring for the Wildcats; her bucket was the first for the varsity squad since Davidson dropped
women’s basketball in 1986.

Four ‘Cats finished in double figures as Davidson led from the beginning in trouncing the Panthers, 64-40, before approximately 400
fans at Belk Arena. Kristen Ferrucci and Kristin Solsrud each scored 13, while Erin Butcher added 12 and Maggie Young
11. The game was won in the first half, in which Davidson outscored the Panthers, 42-16. Davidson’s defense held Ferrum
to six of 28 shooting, while the ‘Cats connected on half of their 36 attempts. Many of Davidson’s baskets directly
resulted from fast breaks caused by turnovers or beating the Panthers’ press.

The key for Davidson in the opening minutes was overcoming first-game anxiety. As one of nine freshmen on John Filar’s
squad, Ferrucci admitted she was “really nervous. This was definitely a step up from high school.” Eight of the nine
freshmen played against Ferrum, and six saw over 10 minutes of playing time.

Erin Butcher began the second half with a driving layup, and Ferrucci made a free throw to increase Davidson’s lead
to 45-16, but the ‘Cats were unable to dominate as they had in the first half. A basket by Ferrucci
with 4:03 remaining rescued Davidson from nearly an eight-minute scoreless period in which Ferrum closed the gap from 55-22 to
55-32; Young followed with a pair of buckets, including a three-pointer, with time running down to solidify the victory.

“We let down some in the second half, and we were not nearly as fluid,” head coach John Filar assessed.
“It was more mental than anything; there just wasn’t quite as much adrenaline in the second half.” Nevertheless, Davidson’s program
has advanced rapidly since Filar led a club team into competition last year. The ‘Cats spread their scoring evenly, and
Ferrucci and Butcher, who pulled down 16 and 12 rebounds, respectively, provided plenty of muscle Tuesday evening. “We also got
a nice spark off the bench from some players,” Filar added.

The ‘Cats return to action Saturday at 6:00 p.m. when Washington and Lee visits. The Generals are in their first
year of varsity play, and Davidson won both meetings between the club level teams a year ago. If the Ferrum
contest is an indication, Davidson is likely on its way to its third consecutive victory over the Generals. “You would
not believe how far we’ve come in the last year,” senior Jennifer Roos said. “When Tonya made the layup and
we heard the crowd roar... we knew we were for real.”
