THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

Platform Views

The Environment From the Left
Sara Carlson

When it comes to the environment, the “environmental president” acts ignorantly. For George Bush, saving the environment means losing American jobs and conceding to tree-hugging Democrats. He fails to realize that new technology brings along with it new innovations and new industries to support the technology. Will a raise in national auto efficiency requirements to 45 miles per gallon devastate the U.S. auto industry? Mr. Bush seems to think so. He is campaigning in the industrial Midwest on the premise that American cars must be inefficient gas-guzzling goliaths to be attractive on domestic and world markets.

Al Gore and Bill Clinton support a raise in auto efficiency, and rightly so. World demands are slowly dragging the United States out of the 1970’s Lincoln Continental and super-macho muscle car and into the 1990’s low emissions efficiency vehicles. Not only do the new cars save gasoline, but they dramatically reduce the American contribution to carbon dioxide emissions, the major cause of global warming. California is leading the way with zero-emissions requirements in mere decades. Rather than destroy the auto industry, these new requirements spark the American innovative spirit. Companies are racing to design faster, lighter electric cars with longer battery staying power. General Motors has already produced a prototype electric vehicle with reasonable pickup. Sure, it has to be recharged every couple hundred miles, but it doesn’t have to be fed ever more expensive and precious petroleum products.

And what about nuclear power? As plants become increasingly unreliable and expensive to maintain, power bills jump. There is always that tiny problem as to where to dump the radioactive by-products from nuclear power production. Clinton and Gore plan to reduce nuclear reliance and increase research into renewable power sources, such as wind and solar energies. Again there is working precedent. When Sacramento’s residents voted by referendum to close the Rancho Seco Nuclear Power Plant, county officials feared an increase in power costs. Instead, power costs have stabilized. Sacramento Municipal Utility District (SMUD) has done more than just close the plant; they’ve invested in the future. Painting roofs white, planting shade trees on the south sides of buildings, and offering rebates for energy-efficient refrigerators will all help maintain lower power costs.

See "Left" on page 8

From the Right
John Allen

Senator gloom, Al Gore, has made environmental policy his central theme for the presidential campaign. His recent book, Earth in the Balance, explains his environmental goals for the future. Unfortunately, it is full of exaggerations and lies.

Al Gore began his environmental crusade as an undergraduate at Harvard. He studied the work of the late Roger Revelle who pioneered the study of atmospheric carbon dioxide. Gore credits much of his knowledge on the theory of greenhouse warming to Revelle. But Gore fails to cite in his book Revelle’s last, and most complete study, of ozone depletion which concludes, "The scientific base for greenhouse warming is too uncertain to justify drastic action at this time. There is little risk in delaying policy responses.” Gore instead cites a January report from NASA that states there is a “possible” ozone hole detected over Antarctica. Gore declared these findings, “an immediate, acute emergency threat... the single most important issue facing this country and this Earth!” But, in May, NASA refuted its first report and admitted there was no evidence of an ozone hole forming over the Northern Hemisphere. So much for the “most important issue facing the earth.”

Another Gore claim is that only 2 percent of credentialed researchers feel there is no greenhouse effect, but a recent Greenpeace survey of climatologists indicates that 47 percent feel that a runaway greenhouse effect is nearly impossible. Another 36 percent is undecided which leaves only 13 percent who said it was “probable”. But Gore’s “best” exaggeration occurs on page 24 of his book. Gore has an “accelerated rate of species extinction” graph that shows how fast species are becoming extinct. According to the data in his graph, the Earth’s five million or so species, including humans, will all be extinct before 2032!

The only truthful part of Gore’s book appears to be his enormous spending plan he proposes to “save” the environment. Entitled the Marshall Plan, Gore calls for a $95 billion per year plan that would be paid for with enormous tax increases. The plan is aimed at hurting U.S. industries and would...reduce economic growth by 1.4 percent per year, and that’s no lie! “Senator PIOOM wants Nerp™ to convert Bill Clinton into the “environmental President.” Let’s hope he doesn’t use his own book as the basis. If so, Americans have more to fear than ozone depletion.

SAE Continued from page 8

For AIDS research, Amnesty International, and world hunger, why not play one at Davidson for the expulsion of the “Not-so-nice-guys?” “Sunday, Bloody Sunday” could be rereleased as a single with all the proceeds going to help the extinction of this group from our beloved campus. Stop the killing! Is this campus desperately hunting for some sort of controversy or what? College is supposed to be fun. Shoot, we study enough here to earn a little merriment every now and then. I presume that the SAEs are feeling a bit handcuffed right now. But then again, we all are with the new alcohol policy.

So what can you do to make the SAEs feel better? I propose we form our own select committee and our first action will be to welcome the SAEs to Davidson as our newest minority. Move over FLAG, we need to make some room for Davidson’s newest oppressed minority. To make them feel like they belong, we should start a “Hug a Hod” campaign. They need lots of them, and it will make you feel better, too. It feels good, doesn’t it?

But seriously, let me reiterate that I am not justifying the incidents that happened last year for which they are now paying the price. But more often than not, it was not the SAEs who were responsible but one or two SAEs who were. I refuse to believe that a group of people who are intelligent enough to get in here would fall under what is known in psychology as “group think.” Davidson is becoming notorious for scapegoating all its problems on one group when it really should be focusing on the individuals who constantly get in trouble.

"No." - Aida Bekele
Yes No. [Yes "No. Well yes, I tried but I couldn't get it Have You Checked CHAL, Yet? No up! I had to get Terrica to help me and I even work here!" - Carol Brinkhous
Yes No "No. Mmmm well yea!" - John Rowe

Frampton Rules: Stereotyping Guys

According to the second college edition of the Webster's New World Dictionary, the definition of stereotype is as follows: an unvarying form or pattern; a fixed or conventional notion held by a number of people and allowing for no individuality, critical judgement, etc. To say the least, stereotypes are dangerous, judgmental, egotistical signs of stupidity. Nonetheless, I am going to go ahead and present four categories of personality into which all guys fall. (I think I can do this without offending anyone because ADC... Russians tell me I am guy.)

Everyone knows the first category of guy. He is called “the friend.” He is, as the name implies, friends with every single girl in the world. They may be hot, they may not be, it doesn’t matter, he knows them. If any guy wants to meet some girl or needs a date to some function and is too much of a loser to actually introduce himself to one, he calls “the friend.” If a girl has just been dumped or some other pseudo-trauma like that, she can talk to “the friend” for hours. He will give great advice and lots of hugs. (Please don’t think this means she’ll pay any attention to his advice.) Essentially, he is a cute, nice guy, which, when added up, means he can’t get a date for himself, and hasn’t gotten any play in about three or four years.

The flip side of this, of course, is “the cheese.” Again, everyone knows him. The best words to describe him would be, depending on your point of view, “revered” or “notorious.” The guys all love to tell tales of his exploits and conquests. He is known to have bagged so and so and it is only a matter of time before he hooks up with what’s her name. The girls warn each incoming freshwoman about him the first chance they get. See if this image might fit: “the cheese” stands on top of a table, dancing alone, some type of gyration, and he eyes some victim across the room. In the corner stand four guys, watching and punching each other in the shoulder, “He’s goin’ to bag her, dude!”

See "SuperFramp" on page 8