THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992 - 3

Davidson's Education Program Receives National Accreditation

By Rachel Dunifon
Courtesy of College Relations

Davidson has again proven that its small size is no limit to its educational capabilities. It recently became the smallest
of 500 colleges in the nation whose teacher education programs have been certified by the National Council for Accreditation of
Teacher Education (NCATE).

Meeting NCATE’s rigorous 952 standards and guidelines was a daunting task for the Davidson education staff, chaired by Associate Professor
Grace Mitchell. But it was a do-or-die situation. Four years ago, the North Carolina state legislature passed a controversial measure
requiring all 46 in-state teacher education programs to be nationally accredited by NCATE as a prerequisite to maintaining state accreditation.
Only North Carolina and Arkansas now require NCATE accreditation, though it is sought by programs in other states for its
prestige. None of the other national liberal arts colleges with which Davidson usually compares itself has an NCATE-accredited education program.

The new state requirement, which must be met by December 1992, was especially challenging for Davidson. Davidson’s program is the
smallest in North Carolina, and most NCATE guidelines were written for larger universities with entire colleges of education. But three
years of hard work and more than 800 pages of documentation paid off in October when Davidson’s program received NCATE
accreditation.

In April of last year, six representatives from the state accreditation board and five from NCATE visited the campus for
four days, conducting a thorough investigation. They examined student records, observed classes and student teachers, and interviewed more than 80
faculty members, students, and members of the public school system. In the end, Davidson was granted full accreditation with no
stipulations or provisions from either the state or NCATE.

One-third of schools attempting to gain NCATE accreditation do not receive it on their first evaluation. In spite of the
rigors of preparation for accreditation, Mitchell feels that the process was a positive one. She said that it forced Davidson
to define its goals, make important decisions, and update its curriculum.

As a result of the accreditation process, Davidson has expanded its education department to include 2.5 full-time faculty members, 5
adjunct professors, and 2 part-time faculty. Davidson has partnerships with four area public schools and has accelerated its outreach to
these schools and others in response to the demands of accreditation. Some services include in-service development workshops for teachers provided
by Davidson faculty, as well as tutoring and outreach programs in which Davidson students participate.

The number of students enrolled in Davidson’s education program has increased from 8 to 51 in the last four years.
State certification allows them to teach in any public school in the state and 28 other states nationwide. Many more
graduates teach in private schools, where state certification is often required. Mitchell said the increase in students has resulted from
more active recruitment by the department and the relatively “painless” requirements of the program. She continued, “Another thing is the
‘Peace Corps’ mindset. Many students feel like they want to give something back to society, to do something good for
kids before they go on to graduate school in another field.”

Davidson offers secondary education certification in Math, English, Social Studies, French, Spanish, and Latin. A major in education is not
offered, so students work to meet certification requirements, as well as the requirements of their majors. The program requires four
prerequisite courses, two of which are in the core curriculum. The other requirements are all fulfilled in the spring semester
of a student’s senior year. During that semester, students teach and observe for 60 hours in an area public school
and take seminars to receive four course credits and earn their certification.

Davidson’s NCATE accreditation is valid for the next five years, after which the evaluation process will be repeated. In reviewing
Davidson’s fulfillment of its goals, NCATE cited as one of Davidson’s strengths the quality of support that the education department
receives from the entire campus, especially the administration and the faculty. According to Mitchell, Davidson’s small size is actually an
asset in teacher preparation.and makes its education department better than those of many larger schools, because students here receive closer
supervision and support as they prepare to become teachers. They are assigned to work in mentor situations during their semester
of student teaching with a “team” consisting of a Davidson faculty member and public school teachers and administrators.

Construction on the new visual arts building is running close to schedule and is not over budget, according to Bob
Collins, Director of the Physical Plant. The building, which is currently two weeks behind schedule, is due to be completed
in July of 1993, and should be ready for classes next year.

Photo by Amy Laukenen

Reach Out at Davidson

Project Literacy

Adult Literacy is a tutoring program targeted towards adults. This program offers students an opportunity to teach a different age
level if they can’t volunteer for elementary or high school tutoring. At present, a few students meet with their adults
on an individual basis. Besides private tutoring, a couple of students also go to Mooresville twice a week to tutor
conversational English to Hispanic adults. This program is sponsored by a church in Mooresville. So... if you are looking to
improve your English (you learn all this interesting English and Spanish vocabulary), give Emily Crowder (-6052) or Sharon Cheah (-6626)
a call.

Reading Buddies

Reading Buddies is a new community program offered by Reach Out. In this program, a Davidson College student and a
Davidson Elementary student are paired to spend one hour together once a week at the Elementary School. Emphasized in this
program are the essential reading skills every child must have to keep from falling through the cracks in society as
well as the enormous confidence boost a child gets from receiving attention from a loving and fun college student. We
are always interested in volunteers and especially need a tutor on Tuesdays at 1 p.m. If you would like to
be a reading buddy, or would like more information, please call Tim (-636), Carol (-6325), or Julia (-6249).

Solidarity

By Sally See

The Student Government Association’s Solidarity committee has been busy providing opportunities and events promoting racial and cultural harmony at Davidson.
Chairman Joe Cook and his members are also planning important events for next semester. This semester the committee co-sponsored the
Community dinner at the Ada Jenkins Center during Into the Streets Week; showed Spike Lee’s film, School Daze; toured an
African Explorers exhibit in Charlotte’s Mint Museum; and tasted Spanish cuisine in a Charlotte restaurant with the Spanish club.

Cook said the committee plans to provide several traditional events next semester. There will be a twenty-four hour prayer vigil
in Lingle Chapel on January 18, Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday. Also next semester, the committee will host Solidarity Week.
Planned for late February or early March, the week will include speakers, events, and displays meant to educate the school
on diversity and the meaning of solidarity. Several new programs are currently being investigated. A student exchange with Johnson C.
Smith University is one that Cook is particularly excited about. The committee is also considering a benefit concert with a
local band and the proceeds going to charity. Chairman Curt Cassidy is also working on organizing day trips once a
month with Davidson students. Expanding the college base even farther, J.C. Smith, UNCC, Queens, and Davidson are working on sponsoring
a block party. The party will hopefully include a famous band.

Cook commented that the Solidarity committee continually adds new programs and is “on the forefront of coming up with new,
innovative ideas.” He and Co-chairman Curt Cassidy are always open for comments and ideas on their programs for minorities.

Take off with Rainbow Deli, your home base for Fresh Fish and Steaks. Lunch, Dinner and drink specials daily. Weekend
live entertainment.

10% OFF ENTIRE TICKET (excluding alcohol) DINE IN

THREE CONVENIENT LOCATIONS

Daily Drink Specials

Lake Norman

Wednesday: Open Mic
Thursday: Karaoke, BYO Mug $1.50 Draft (up to 32 ounces!)
8301 Magnolia Estates Dr.
Cornelius, NC
(704) 896-0091

EXPIRES NOVEMBER 23, 1992

Friday & Saturday: Live Entertainment
$1.50 Tooters
