12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992 DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Ukrop Nets Hat Trick in 9-2 Win Over The Citadel
Cats Face #10 Wolfpack Tuesday Afternoon
By Bruce Balestier

If you’ve read Sports Illustrated’s September 14 article on The Citadel, Davidson’s 9-2 win over the Bulldogs Saturday at Richardson
Field leaves you with a single question: what kind of abuse will the Citadel soccer players face upon their return
to Charleston? If the commanding officers there have any mercy at all, they’ll realize that the defeat itself was punishment
enough for the Bulldogs.

The Citadel entered the game 5-2, with Southern Conference wins over VMI and Appalachian State, but were outplayed from beginning
to end. Three goals from Rob Ukrop and two from Mike Newton sparked the Wildcats to the win.

The Bulldogs maintained a defensive stance for most of the contest, keeping most of their players behind midfield, but it
didn’t make their defense any less permissive. Davidson attacks were easily initiated in the first third of the field and
frequent.

The icebreaker for the Wildcats came in the 15th minute; Craig Omli deflected a John Sampers corner kick in front
of the goal, and Ben Hayes headed the ball in for a goal. Barely 30 seconds later, Ukrop made a
hard run with the ball from the right wing to the center of the field, shot the ball left-footed from
20 yards out, and found the bottom right corner for a 2-0 lead. With 20:05 left in the half, Ukrop
scored on a penalty kick to make it 3-0, and that was the score at halftime.

Just two and a half minutes into the second half, Ukrop completed the hat trick. Hayes took the ball on
a break down the left wing, pulled up, and fed Ukrop in front of the goal. Ukrop’s shot deflected off
the goalie and into the net for a 4-0 lead. Ukrop now has 11 goals on the year.

Newton scored his two goals within 40 seconds of each other in the 56th minute, the first on a penalty
kick and the second on a header in front of the goal. Matt Spear, Andy Haile, and Ian O’Brien finished
the scoring for Davidson.

The lopsided score allowed Davidson coach Charlie Slagle to give his reserves considerable playing time, and he was happy to
see them play with poise. “We found out we’ve got some more guys who can score goals,” he said. “The
kids played well. They really didn’t alter their game, especially when...

See "Soccer" on page 9

Hockey Goes 2-1 on Ohio Trip, Tops 17th Ranked Richmond
By Jennifer Roos

Davidson traveled over six hours to Athens, Ohio last Friday to face three Mid-American Conference opponents, Ohio University, Kent State,
and Central Michigan. The Wildcats emerged from the weekend of play with two wins in three games.

On Friday afternoon, the Wildcats faced Ohio U. on a field that resembled someone’s front yard. Due to the field
conditions, Davidson changed its offensive strategy. In the new alignment, junior Suzanne Hardesty lined up behind the first battery of
Jenny Plowright and Jennifer Roos on offensive corners to pick up any errant balls. Hardesty was able to score both
of Davidson’s goals in a 2-1 victory, the first with just :16 left in the first half to give the
‘Cats a 1-0 lead.

The Bobcats came out aggressively in the second half and played a very physical game in an attempt to disrupt
Davidson’s game plan. The Wildcats’ Andrea Short became a casualty of that physical play when she suffered a fractured ring
finger on her right hand; she will be out of action for two weeks. Hardesty scored with an identical play
on another corner to give Davidson the 2-1 win.

The Wildcats faced Kent State on Saturday but were not as successful in controlling the tempo of the game, and
lost 2-0. Kent came out more aggressive than Davidson and really disrupted the Wildcats’ style of play. Davidson usually carries
the ball upfield with the speed of wings Jacquelin Ukrop, Missy Potts, Andrea Short, and Holly Kledis. But Kent rung
the ball up when Davidson had a free hit, and the Wildcats could not get the ball to the wings
as much as they wanted. As a result, Kent held onto the ball longer and was able to move it
faster around the defense. Davidson had only one corner in the game.

The final game of the weekend was against Central Michigan. Despite playing their third game in as many days, Davidson
came out fresh, opened the game assertively, and dominated the entire game in winning 4-0. Coach Betsy Pryor said, “It
took us the majority of the week...

See "Hockey" on page 10

Nance Takes Title at JMU Women's Tennis Tournament
By Will Cobb

Davidson’s women’s tennis team began its fall schedule September 18-20, when it dominated a 15-team tournament at East Tennessee State.
The team had at least one finalist in each of the four flights. Junior Jennifer Beahm won the first flight
and Kimberley Nance was the finalist in flight two. Flights three and...Four were left undecided since all four finalists were
from Davidson. In flight three, Barbara Grooms and Nicole Wilcox reached the final, and in flight four Susanna Cobb and
Sarah Heer dominated their sides of the draw to meet in the finals. Cobb and Heer also went on to
reach the finals in flight two doubles. Coach Price feels that Davidson has “grown out of the tournament” and does
not expect to compete there next year.

At the James Madison Invitational September 25-27, Davidson faced much stiffer competition from a field that included teams from the
ACC, Big East, and Colonial Athletic Association. Davidson won six singles and four doubles matches. The star of the tournament
for Davidson was Nance, who won the flight four singles title with victories over players from Penn State and James
Madison and a come-from-behind, 7-6, 6-2 defeat of Elizabeth Huber of Virginia in the final. Nance was behind 4-1 in
the first set and rallied to gain one of her most impressive wins. “This tournament was my best one ever,”
Nance said. Beahm and Wilcox teamed to reach the finals at #3 doubles. They lost a tough match to a
team from Virginia 6-1, 7-6 after defeating George Mason and James Madison handily. The team will head to Brown University
this weekend for what Price feels will be its toughest test, a tournament involving teams from the Ivy League, Pac-10,
and ACC.

Spikers in Midst of Losing Streak
By Taylor Smith

The Davidson volleyball team continued its hectic schedule over the last two weeks, playing four times on the road and
once at home. The first match of the stretch was at Blacksburg, Va., against Virginia Tech. Davidson came out cold,
losing the first two games 15-5, 15-6. By the time the 'Cats began to play well, it was too late,
and the Hokies finished off the match by winning the third game 15-13. The team played three matches over the
weekend at a tournament at UNC-Charlotte. In their first, against UNC-Asheville, the Wildcats again showed difficulty in concentrating on the
task at hand, and lost 15-8, 15-10, 15-3. The problems remained against UNC-Wilmington, a team that Davidson had beaten earlier
in the year. The Wildcats were unable to execute in the way that they wanted, and lost 15-12, 15-8, 15-8.
The final game of the tournament was against host UNCC; the 49ers won 15-6, 15-8, 15-7. Davidson returned to Belk
Arena Tuesday to host Liberty. The Wildcats played much better than they had in their previous four outings, but were
unable to pull out the win, losing 15-11, 15-11, 10-15, 15-10. Outside hitter Janet Delery played exceptionally well, with 18
kills and 15 digs. When asked about her team’s poor play, coach Carolyn Blake said, “I don’t think we’ve really
done that badly considering the number of injuries that we’ve had.” Middle hitters Katherine Anderson and Michelle Augustin and setter
Lori Logan all have been sidelined with injuries. “When we take that into consideration, things really aren’t that bad,” Blake
said. “But we are looking forward to having everyone back, and returning to the level of play we were at
before the injuries.” Both Anderson and Augustin played in the last match. The team hosts the Davidson Tournament Friday and
Saturday.

Hankins Sets Record as Women’s Soccer Whips High Point
By Jen Lake

The Davidson women’s soccer team upped its record to 6-3 Friday with a 12-1 drubbing of a new team from
High Point College. The game was an example of the team’s depth and flexibility; the 'Cats got goals from nine
different players, and coach Kevin Hundley used completely different lineups to start the first and second halves. Goals came from
all over the field, and various players put together the necessary plays to hit the net. Heather Wineberg scored off
a pass from Ellen Sprinkle for a 1-0 lead within the first three minutes of the game. Sprinkle scored in
the 17th minute, assisted by Claudia Lombard. Three minutes later, Ann Todd’s cross landed on the foot of Susan Taylor,
and resulted in a 3-0 lead. Late in the half, Lombard got her third assist of the day with a
pass to Amy Hoffheimer. Hoffheimer, in her first game back after missing three weeks with an ankle injury, beat the
goalie to the near post with a left-footed shot. Lindsay Boozer wrapped up the first half with a goal to
make it 5-0. On the defensive side, goalkeeper Courtney Robertson was supported by consistent play from Jenny Satterfield, Jodi Lewis,
Colleen Camaione, Elizabeth McLaughlin, and Allison Browett. In the second half, Jen Lake replaced Robertson in goal and benefitted from
the defensive play of Shannon Lowrance, Anne Wampler, and Allison Adams. Sally Graham increased the lead to 7-0 with a
pair of goals, assisted by Erin Butcher and Browett, in the first five minutes of the second half. Butcher scored
ten

See "Women's Soccer” on page 10
