Che Davidse

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIII MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992 - NUMBER 16

SAE Faces Allegations of Harassment, Violence
By Tom Koonce

A committee of six people -- two members of the administration, two faculty, and two students -- was formed to
look into allegations of impropriety and violations of the Code of Responsibility on Patterson Court. This committee will begin with
the allegations that have been made against Sigma Alpha Epsilon. These allegations were brought to the attention of the administration
and the Board of Trustees in several different instances this past week. Such allegations came to the fore last Tuesday
when the members of Rusk House voted to not co-sponsor parties with SAE for the rest of the year. Two
days later, a letter from visiting history professor A.T. Miller was circulated around campus. This letter cited allegations of violence
and harassment committed by members of the house and urged the Trustees to take action to solve this problem. On
Thursday, a group of students organized a demonstration in front of the Commons to show their frustrations about the alleged
harassment and violence to Trustee members as they entered for lunch. Miller gave his letter to these students to hand
to Trustees as they walked into the Commons. Rusk President Susan Wallace said that her house’s action was prompted by
an anonymous letter that she received from some members of Rusk that cited concern and fear over various incidents.

Faculty Mandate Daily Schedule, Extend Quiet Hours
By David Smyth

The Educational Policy Committee, chaired by Vice-President of Academic Affairs Robert Williams, sent a resolution for the faculty’s approval last
week mandating a daily schedule that includes an extension of “quiet” hours in dormitories on campus. In a meeting of
the full faculty on Tuesday, the resolution was adopted and was subsequently sent to the Registrar’s office for implementation. The
proposal outlines a schedule wherein weekdays at Davidson would be split into three large blocks with quiet hours being extended
from 12:00 a.m. to 7:30 a.m. Classes, also, would be cut off at 4:00 on Tuesdays and Thursdays and at
5:30 on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. The move apparently is in response to complaints from faculty that their students are
unable to study or sleep in their rooms. These students have asked their teachers for extensions on reviews and papers
because of hostile studying environments, and their pleas have been heard. John Heil, a member of the Philosophy Department and
one of the professors who have expressed concern over this problem, said, “We floated the idea of having a noise
cutoff at 11:00 or something, I don’t know what the status of this is. This is just something we talked
about.” When asked how many students have come to him about noise interfering with their ability to complete assignments, he
said: “I’ve had a whole bunch. Faculty have gotten the impression that there’s a major problem.” Problem or no problem,
though, Director of Residence Life Richard Terry has not received the amounts of complaints that some faculty have received. He
has had three calls regarding excessive noise this year, one from Duke and two from Little Hall. Terry has heard
nothing from faculty to help locate specific problem areas that need special attention. “We have R.A.’s and hall counselors to
address these issues,” he said.

Alpha Phi Alpha Awaits Acceptance by National Fraternity
By Kevin Miller

After several years...of hard work, enthusiasm, and red tape, Patterson Court is one step away from expanding for the second
time this year. A group of 20-25 prospective brothers, led by the efforts of Al Gaines, '94, Lenny McCallister, '93,
and Assistant Dean of Students John Eaves, are presently awaiting a letter of acceptance from the National Greek Fraternity Alpha
Phi Alpha. The students, ranging from freshmen to seniors, are looking forward to bringing the oldest, traditionally African-American, national fraternity
in America to Davidson. “A Phi A,” which looks to promote scholarship, service, and culture within the community, promises to
add a new dimension to Patterson Court. “It is a positive, drastic, but necessary move in the right direction for
Davidson College students. For black males in particular, it creates an alternative social outlet,” said prospective A Phi A member
George Spain, '95. Spain’s comments stem from recent discussion about the alarming number of African-American males that have left Davidson
in the last few years, and they reflect the great concern many students have about the low percentage of African-Americans
on campus (4% - 68 students). Lenny McCallister, a proponent of the fraternity, sees “Alpha” on page 3.

College Destined For New Campus-Wide Alcohol Policy In April
By Tom Price

The trustees of the college decided this past weekend to empower the Dean of Students to rewrite the school’s alcohol
policy. Dean Terry said that within the next two weeks he will present specific objectives and recommendations to the Council
for Campus and Religious Life and to the Patterson Court Council. After consulting with these two organizations, Terry will bring
his final proposal before the trustees during their April meeting. The new alcohol policy is significant because it will be
a comprehensive policy covering all elements of the campus. Currently, there are two separate policies: one for Patterson Court and
one for the rest of the campus. Dean Terry said that the new comprehensive policy will “increase the school’s liability,”
but he did not specify what changes will be necessary because of the liability.

NEWS:
CCRL passes new pledge guidelines. See Page 2.
Groundbreaking continues on campus. See Page 2.
Anthony Foxx, the student body president-elect, said that after this weekend he felt that the trustees genuinely wanted a policy
with which “students would be comfortable.”
Mubarak Awad urges non-violence. See Page 2.

SPORTS:
The week in hoops. See page 13.

OPINIONS:
SAE president responds to allegations. See page 4.

Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Spain’s comments stem from recent discussion about the alarming number of African-American males that have left Davidson in the last
few years, and they reflect the great concern many students have about the low percentage of African-Americans on campus (4%
- 68 students). Lenny McCallister, a proponent of the fraternity, sees “Alpha” on page 3.

The authors of the letter stated five incidents at SAE that were in conjunction with Rusk or involved its members
that were examples of why such an attitude of fear had developed. The authors asked that Rusk vote not to
have parties with SAE for the rest of the year. Wallace stated that the authors realized that it was a
harsh and drastic suggestion, but lesser action had been taken in the past and something had to be done. Wallace
took the letter to Dean Will Terry who advised her to remove some parts of the letter that he felt
were inaccurate. The letter was then read at last week’s house meeting and after lengthy discussion, the motion to stop
co-sponsoring parties with SAE was approved. According to Wallace, over 150 people voted in favor of the motion and 19
people opposed. See "SAE" on page 5.
