THE DAVIDSONIAN

WALTER PRICE - Editor in Chief  
SARAH GAYLE - Managing Editor  
TOM KOONCE - Associate Editor  
TOM PRICE - Assistant Editor  
SEAN LIND - News Editor  
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Opinions Editor  
CHRIS HOVELAND - Davidson Arts Editor  
STANCEL RILEY - Davidson Arts Editor  
BRUCE BALESTIER - Sports Editor  
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor  
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist  
ALEX DANIEL - Production Manager  

The Davidsonian  
Founded in 1914  
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"  

HARRISON ROBERTS - Advertising Manager  
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager  
KATRICE SHULER - Circulation Manager  

Here's Hoping Spike Does the Right Thing

Spike Lee is coming to town and it would appear as if students on this campus have no opinions on his visit. We urged people to submit their opinions to us so that they could be vented through this medium, but the only people to reply to our invitation were a few faculty members. Given this, Spike Lee’s visit seems to have evoked almost no reactions among Davidson students. But, ticket sales tell us otherwise. In only three days over 800 tickets were sold to just students, faculty, and staff. It therefore seems as if people are excited about Lee’s visit and have definite opinions about his upcoming appearance on this campus, but they just don’t want to make their views public. That’s just fine, but that doesn’t mean we have to keep quiet...

Nobody will dispute that Spike Lee is a very accomplished filmmaker who has put out some excellent movies. (All of his movies are reviewed by various members of the community on p.10.) He has demonstrated his amazing talent at portraying race relations in our society, often successfully sparking debate. His upcoming movie, Malcolm X, has already created controversy within the motion picture industry and around the country, especially as a result of Lee’s complaints about budgetary and time constraints, which he ignored, being placed on his movie. He said that these limitations were different and much harsher than those imposed on white directors, which could be true. Lee has also told people to skip school and take a leave from work the day his movie opens. Controversy is a word that seems to follow Lee, and he also appears to relish in the turmoil that he has personally caused. Lee once said, “We know that every time I do something, it’s going to start something.” Once Lee has made a claim he is unlikely to back down from his statements as he is very firm in his beliefs and opinions.

Davidson has never been the type of school to solicit a ‘big name’ simply for publicity and Davidson didn’t hire Lee because of his artistic abilities; he was hired because some people in the administration believed that he was the sole speaker capable of uniting the Davidson community at this time. The reasons for the absurdity of this belief are two-fold. First, Lee has been known to be a less-than-thrilling speaker. In a similar appearance at the University of Virginia, the Richmond Times described a lethargic Lee who, when he finally spoke, did so only “dutifully.” Second, Lee’s past comments hardly qualify him as someone capable of, or even interested in, unification. For example, he told this month’s Esquire, “Black South Africans are going to have to kill people.... I went to South Africa, I saw those little kids chanting ‘One bullet, one settler.’ It’s gonna come to that. I’ll be rejoicing. Who knows? We might see the same tactic here some day.” Hardly the words of a great unifier.

Healthy discussions began last spring at Davidson and such dialogue needs to proceed. But is Spike Lee the impetus we need? The college is spending a substantial amount of money to get Lee, money that could probably be better spent on programs and activities designed to increase campus tolerance and unity. Nearly everyone stands to be offended by Lee. In the past Lee has criticized African-American students who did not choose predominately black colleges. Lee does not try to bring various components of a population together. He instead speaks to a specific segment and tells them what they should do to bring about a change; while alienating the rest of the audience. The Davidson College community needs to work together, not against each other to ease tension on campus. People need to be enlightened in order to learn about each specific race on our campus. We do not need someone who will create or widen divisions, but somebody who wants to work to help our college to collectively move forward. Things have to happen, but Lee does not seem to be the person who can help.

Maybe we are not giving Spike Lee a chance, but his past interviews and statements have led us to such a belief. Maybe he will surprise us and give the kind of address, or rap session, that Davidson needs. That would definitely be welcome. But somebody who has never visited or talked with members of our campus and knows our community only through articles sent to him out of this paper and the Charlotte Observer, does not understand Davidson enough to try and solve our problems. Once again, we do want the community to realize that there are definitely still problems. Nobody has said that everything is fine. But, we have moved ahead since last fall, and this has been a result of the campus working together, sharing ideas, and basically just talking with each other to generate positive suggestions of what should be done. We do not see how, judging from his past appearances, Spike Lee will provide positive feedback for our college. But we do hope that we're wrong and Lee breaks precedent to deliver a healthy session that is beneficial, helpful, and informative for all members of the community. But, we want students to realize that Lee is not a savior, as many of his recruiters would have us believe. He will open up debate, but maybe next time we can do it on our own. It is likely that Lee will “step on toes” next Wednesday night, and few people will agree with all of his claims. Still, as a community which does need guidance in this area, it is important to bring home the positive and constructive elements of his speech (assuming they will exist). Go hear Spike Lee next Wednesday.Listen carefully to his message. Decide for yourself the merits of his words. Most importantly, do not let offensive elements of his speech prevent you from thinking seriously about the status of race relations at Davidson College. Although we have expressed our doubts, it is our sincere hope that Lee will be inspiring in a positive manner. In the long run, however, the most important thing is that he makes us think. In that vein, we must continue the process and not simply forget about our problems a few days after Lee’s visit. Dialogue must be ongoing and not occur only when, in the event of some controversial incident, it evokes concern. Let’s remember that, so next time others won’t feel like the college has to resort to shelling out a lot of cash to continue campus-wide debates and discussions.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

Letters

Wildley, Lee Respond to Gullan

To the Editor,

At the Young Democrats vs. Young Republicans debate held Wednesday, October 7 in the 900 Room, Republican debater Bill Gullan turned what had been a productive discussion of campaign issues into an offensive display when he began his speech by saying that he was glad to see all of Bill Clinton’s mistresses who had come up from Arkansas to the debate. This remark, directed toward women in the audience, offended many who were present. When the women demanded an apology, Mr. Gullan defended himself by saying his comment was simply made to lighten the mood. Yet his tactics backfired. His negative commentary, which degraded women attending the debate, unfortunately removed the debate’s focus from important issues such as the environment, the economy, and education to a massive negative generalization of the women present. Mr. Gullan’s observation not only reflects unfavorably on the party Mr. Gullan supports, the Republican party,

See "Wildley” on page 9

Curran Reacts to Lee's Visit

To the Editor,

As a newcomer to the Davidson College community, I was not here last year to see the “tension and divisiveness” on this campus last year. But if there are such problems here (and Davidson would not be unique in being a college community that needs to come to terms with racial prejudice and bigotry), then it can only be good to have Spike Lee come and engage with us in a discussion about racial problems on this campus. At my graduate university, the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, a race-based attack in 1986 on an African American student by a group of white students led to a week-long student takeover of a building and a two-day moratorium on classes, widely supported by students and fac-

See "Curran" on page 9

Lee's Appearance is Defended

To the Editor:

As representatives of the Union Speakers Committee and of the Black Student Coalition, we would like to respond to the request for opinions on Spike Lee’s upcoming visit to Davidson College. As was stated in last week’s editorial, we too hope that his “visit, and the inevitable controversy it will bring, will result in a more aware and enlightened Davidson community.” We are concerned about the ways in which we relate to each other. We are concerned about the racial barriers that exist between people at Davidson and in the larger community. We have invited Spike Lee because we are convinced that his visit will provide a special opportunity for us to address these problems. There are several reasons why we hope for this result.

First, Spike Lee is a nationally, perhaps internationally known film director and producer, a Harvard professor and an activist. Lee is an educator. His teaching is not confined to the classroom; rather it reaches a large spectrum of society through his films. His films make us uncomfortable. They challenge us to open our eyes and our minds to the racial problems that exist everywhere. Lee does not claim to have solutions to all of the existing tensions; however, he does challenge others to search within for their own personal conclusions and beliefs. Lee’s upcoming visit has already sparked much debate within the college and surrounding community. Some may disagree with his ideas but we hope that many will find that this is a great opportunity to discuss their

See "Spike" on page 9

Benedict's View of Lee's Visit

To the Editor,

Why should opinions be solicited and the fragile community’s temperature taken when faced with the public appearance of one of the country’s leading filmmakers? Are the people on this campus — and at the Davidsonian — so close-minded, so afraid of opinions and world views different from their own that they would prefer to ignore every idea, every artist, every book, every vision of America that does not have the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval? Your cover story about Lee’s career and his films focuses almost entirely on the controversies they have created instead of on Lee’s extraordinary accomplishments. What’s wrong with an artist expressing ideas that disturb and confound and trouble his audience? If artists don’t challenge our visions, who will? Dan Quayle? Jesse Helms? The Hollywood moviemakers whose efforts are aimed entirely at making money for themselves and whose films promote the most senseless violence and sexism imaginable?

Are there really people at Davidson who would prefer to close their minds to serious discussion of racial division in the country? Are they the same people who believe in banned books and banned movies and Patrick Buchanan’s hate-filled vision of America? We at Davidson ought to rejoice at the prospect of Spike Lee’s visit. The fact that some of us don’t is a sad commentary indeed.

Sincerely,
Elizabeth Benedict McGee
Visiting Professor of Writing