THE DAVIDSONIAN » OPINIONS _ MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

In Black and White... The Court: Equal Opportunity?

We'd like to start off by saying that we’re glad Bill Clinton got elected. Even though we have reservations about
him, at least minority issues won’t be totally ignored like they have been during the past twelve years (touché, Bill
Gullan).

This week’s article has nothing to do with Bills (Clinton or Gullan). Our once again theoretical conversation deals with the
awkwardness—even the isolation—felt by many African-American students at Davidson.

Scott: Why do so many African-American students disappear on the weekends? I rarely see them on the Court or at
concerts.

Deidra: A lot of the social activities at Davidson do not appeal to the African-American students. You don’t see many
of them on the Court, because they don’t enjoy it.

Scott: Why not?

Deidra: Well, I guess you could say that it has to do with upbringing—or rather what you’re used to from
home. When I’m at home, my social activities are completely different. If I go to a party, there’s usually dance
music playing and everybody’s hanging out talking to friends or on the dance floor. The parties at Davidson are not
the same. A lot of times you’ll find me on the Court running around with my friends, but if I
want a party like the ones I go to at home, I go out of town.

Let’s also take for example the concert groups that come to Davidson; nine times out of ten, many of the
African-American students haven’t even heard of the group that’s performing. If you’ve never heard of the group, why would you
pay to see them? (This is not to say the Union is not trying its best to represent all of
the different groups on campus, it’s just a fact that when there is a majority view on something—whether it be
a concert or a movie—the others who don’t agree are left with their opinion.)

I admit that the speakers that have come recently have been good, and for this I send a shout out
to the Union board and all other committees involved in bringing them. However, a speaker here and there does not
make a social life. There really is not a social outlet to which the African-American students belong. Many begin to
feel isolated. This is a big reason why at least two African-American students per year transfer from Davidson. They feel
like they don’t belong to this school. When they look back on their college years, they don’t want to remember
the exams or all-nighters (granted, if hard work isn’t learned here it ain’t learned), but good times, great parties, and
most of all friends. I honestly don’t think some of the African-American students will remember Davidson for the great times.

The Ever Different Column Title... Thanksgiving, F-Ball, and Grandpa

On Thursday, many of us will be going home to celebrate the traditional Thanksgiving with family and friends much like
the Pilgrims and Indians did four hundred years ago:

JOHN SMITH: Could you pass the cornbread please?

SQUANTO: Yes, John Smith.

JOHN SMITH: Thank you. Can you please pass the turkey?

SQUANTO: Yes, John Smith, would you care for the lumpy potatoes? How is the turkey, John Smith?

JOHN SMITH: Uh, it’s very...uh... WHAT?!! NO PASS INTERFERENCE?!! He was all over the guy! Man, Squanto, you gotta agree
with me; he was hit way before the ball even got there.

Thanksgiving Day Football has given the opportunity for families all across America to get together and huddle around a 20’
television set, discuss commercials, talk about their lives, watch an exciting match-up between the Detroit Lions and the Green Bay
Packers, and listen to Grandpa Ed’s unforgettable Thanksgiving day football story about the time HE was sitting in the stands
when the Lions’ Len Dawson threw that game-winning touchdown pass and Grandpa suddenly realized that his nose was FALLING OFF
because it was the COLDEST DAY IN RECORDED HISTORY and the guy next to him turned into a LIVING SNOWMAN
and people couldn’t even hear the person next to them.because THE WORDS FROZE OVER BEFORE ANYONE COULD HEAR THEM and
BIG WOOLY MAMMOTHS roamed the fifty-yard line and Grandpa had to spend Thanksgiving with a big nurse named BERTHA. Thanksgiving
Day Football actually originated some three hundred years ago when Faith Brown asked her dear husband Samuel Brown to help
her baste the Thanksgiving turkey and Samuel, searching for any reasonable excuse because he was a firm non-baster, replied, “Uh,
honey, uh, I can’t because there's this football game between Detroit and Green Bay!” Faith believed him. Men all around
quickly picked up on this excuse and thus, over the years, while the women have toiled in the kitchen perfecting
the turkey with cranberry sauce,

See "Ever" on page 12

Idle pondering of the problems associated with our generation (i.e., drug abuse, depression, apathy, etc.) has led me to the
conclusion that our parents have failed us. Do not take this assertion the wrong way. I do not intend to
condemn the parenting skills of those who send their children to Davidson. The generation to which they belong, however—The Baby
Boom—has blundered miserably. Their mistake includes not only the selfish extravagance of the 80s, resulting in our skewed sense of
monetary value and the “mortgaged future” that so many candidates highlighted in the recent election campaign. Indeed, the far grander
shortcoming of our parents’ generation is its lack of true heroes and a corresponding failure to instill in us a
romantic view of the infinity of our potential. Here I again remind the reader that by using the term “us”
in the preceding paragraph, I do not mean the Davidson community. By virtue of our presence here, we acknowledge certain
factors that have made us motivated, purposeful people. It is the rare Davidson student who does not have his personal
heroes or who is not well-aware of the expansiveness of her potential. But we are the exception. It is no
wonder that our generation is beset with an unprecedented number of problems. One only has to look at some of
the cultural icons of the past 15 years to see the hollow quality and often tragic self-destruction of our role
models. Magic Johnson, John Belushi, Madonna, and Donald Trump have each shown us in their own way the depths one
can sink to for success or the moral depravity that success sometimes brings. Granted, many of you might take exception
to some of my examples, and all of you can name dozens who have lived in the limelight and have
retained their dignity and integrity. Proportionally speaking, however, the heroes from our parents’ generation have an alarming tendency to fall
flat right before our eyes or to espouse ideals which aren’t so heroic in the traditional sense. The importance of
this dis-

See "Deep" on page 12

GOP Continued from page 5

in the process of trying to solve the civil rights problems.” Several months later, he added that “the new civil
rights act was passed to protect 14% of the people. I am also worried about the other 86%.” Diane Mosbacher,
whose father and brother are chief GOP fund-raisers and Bush campaigners in Texas, calls the GOP stand on lesbians and
gays “neither expedient nor ethical.” Ms. Mosbacher is one of many targeted by the “cultural war” declared by Pat Buchanan
at the Republican Convention. At that convention, placards read “Family rights forever, Gay rights never.” Mosbacher declared, “When you have
the President of the United States and Vice President standing up and making homophobic remarks it goes beyond just denying
us our basic human rights.” Pat Robertson led the tax-exempt Christian Coalition in raising over $13 million in their attempt
to support “pro-family Christians and achieving working control of the Republican Party in 1996.” The Christian Coalition actively lobbied against
the gay rights initiatives in Oregon and Colorado as well as working to defeat an equal rights amendment in Iowa
that Robertson described as a “feminist agenda...that encourages women to leave their husbands, kill their children, practice witchcraft, destroy capitalism,
and become lesbians.” So when do we start burning these witches? Last week, Governor Fortice stated, “The less we emphasize
the Christian religion the further we fall into the abyss of the poor character and chaos in the United States
of America.” This is the same governor who said that he would call the National Guard to fight any court-ordered
tax increase funding at Mississippi’s nearly segregated universities and angered environmentalists by calling them “tree-huggers.” As the GOP falls further
out of the mainstream, their support falls also.

Scott Yarborough
Dan Nechemias
