12 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With Davidson Soccer Coach Charlie Slagle on Davidson's Selection as Host of the 1992, 1993 NCAA Men's Soccer

By Phelps Sprinkle

Davidsonian: What criteria did the NCAA selection committee look at when deciding on a host for the Men’s Soccer Final
Four?

Slagle: Well, there are certain criteria that we had to meet originally. The field has to be of a certain
size. The amount of seats they wanted (6,000), I guess South Florida may not have had that, but we did.
Lights and everything else have to be of a certain standard. But the main thing they were looking for is
the ability to put people in the seats—to get good crowds. We went out and gave them a community effort,
a college effort, that type of situation, and that really helped us.

Davidsonian: So the main reason Davidson was chosen over South Florida and Richmond was the community?

Slagle: I think they thought we would put in a great effort as a group. Because of the great effort,
a couple of criteria would be met: One, the teams participating would have a great event. Two, there would be
people in the stands to allow them to have a great event. Three, the setting would be real nice for
several reasons. We have a small community situation where the games will be played. We also have a big airport
in a big city to have some of the auxiliary events.

Davidsonian: And this is a two-year event?

Slagle: Right now it’s for ’92 and ’93.

Davidsonian: So what does this mean for Davidson’s soccer program and all sports for that matter?

Slagle: First for soccer, it really helps us in a couple of ways. The main thing is recruiting—we’ll be seen
by a lot of people across the country, soccer player-wise. Obviously, we’ll be in Soccer America and publicity of that
sort, including television. What’s going to happen is people will know about us. Secondly, we’ll be able to invite teams
who will come to tournaments and games during the regular season. Because of that, we might be able to have
a tournament where teams from out of the region like UCLA, Indiana, or St. Louis will come, where normally they
would not. We already attract the teams from our region of the country.

Davidsonian: What kind of changes will need to be made to our stadium to accommodate the Final Four?

Slagle: The major change that has to be done is to make the field a little bit more smooth. What
we’re going to have to do, and it’s already been worked out with Irvin Brawley and his crew, is that
they are going to flatten the field. There are some dips and ridges where the three lanes of track were
taken out, and that will be dealt with over the summer. We may need some more power because the Final
Four is on CBS, and they may need some requirements to be met. But other than that, there’s not a
lot that we’ll have to do.

Davidsonian: Will Johnson Gym be the location for the media to work out of during the event?

Slagle: Yes, it will be just an onsite media center. What we would like to do is separate the gym
into quarters. One place will be an interview area, there will be a buffet-type area, another would be a working
area, and perhaps a broadcast quarter. They will also use the press box, and we’ll probably have a temporary press
box also.

Davidsonian: When will the Final Four take place and how many fans do you expect?

Slagle: The semi-finals will be Friday, December 4. What we’re trying to do is probably play the games early to
late afternoon, going into the night. It’s still up in the air as to whether we will play them at
two o’clock or start at four o’clock, or whatever, but we’ll probably start sometime in the afternoon. The final is
on December 6, and it will be an afternoon game as well. My goals are to fill the stadium for
the final on Sunday the sixth, which hopefully if we put some temporary seats in, there would be at least
8,000 people for the final. For the semi-finals, we’d love to have 5,000.What kind of impact will hosting the Final
Four have on youth soccer interest in our region?

Slagle: I don’t know how much it’s going to actually help. There will be some people who come who have
never seen games before. I think one thing that will help will be the quality of it (I don’t know
if it will help the quantity), in that people will get a chance to see more and more good college
soccer, which right now in this country is the top level of the game. There are professional leagues, but you
don’t get the greatest players because there is not enough money in it. That means that the players are not
in this country if they are that good or they might decide to go into business, or whatever. So what
we’ve got is a lot of people who can see the top level of soccer in the country, and because
of that, that might spur some youngsters on to become better players. As far as quantity is concerned, I don’t
know if that is going to change much. Most of the people who come will already be soccer players or
soccer fans.

Davidsonian: Coach, how do you plan to attract fans to come and watch the event?

Slagle: The major push will be from groups. We are going to contact almost all the high school playing soccer
teams in the state and the surrounding area. We'll try to get busloads of teams coming to the tournament. We’re
also going to work real hard with the youth soccer. What we’re trying to do is get appropriations to help
us sell some tickets, so that if a group buys ten tickets they might get two extra for free, or
something like that. If a group like youth soccer buys two hundred tickets, they would get forty free. I think
at South Florida they just assumed that by advertising the tournament, they would draw people. We are going to recruit
people to get them in the seats. One other thing that we want to have is as many people as
possible from the student population. The tickets, probably, will cost a total of only fifteen dollars for all three games,
which is a great deal. With the tickets being only this amount, we hope that for the students, just walking
from their dorms and coming down to see the game would be great. Obviously, if we make the Final Four,
fifteen dollars should be next to nothing for the students to pay.

Davidsonian: What chances do you give Davidson of making the Final Four?

Slagle: I think Davidson has the best chance ever of getting into the NCAA tournament. The question after that is
whether we can win three games to get into the Final Four. But, the first is to get into the
tournament.

Davidsonian: Will there be opportunities for people to volunteer to help out with the tournament?

Slagle: Well, there will be both individual and group opportunities. We’re going to try to make the few days that
the teams are here as easy as possible, so we’re going to try and have hosts for each team. These
hosts will meet the teams at the airport and keep them informed and ready at the hotels, things like that.
There is a banquet on campus that we will need help at. Obviously, setting up the field and things during
the game will need to be attended to also. I think groups will have an opportunity to make some money
because they can run concession stands and so forth. A lot of what makes a good tournament for spectators is
the amenities that are around it. If you have to wait in line for fifteen minutes to get a hot
dog, then that’s not going to be a great deal. But if we have enough people out there running that
kind of situation, then it will run smoothly. The same thing is true of helping with parking. I think there
are going to be some opportunities for some of the other sports teams and clubs around campus to add to
the tournament, that will make it nice for the spectators and teams who come. Any help we can get from
individuals and groups will be greatly appreciated.
