THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, APRIL 6, 1992 7

Women's Lacrosse
Edges Duke, Guilford

By Bruce Balestier

With two wins in three games last week, the Davidson women’s lacrosse team upped its record to 4-2 in its
first season of existence. The Wildcats split a pair of games Saturday in a tournament at North Carolina. In the
opener, the ‘Cats paid back Duke’s club team for a previous 9-6 defeat with a 15-10 win. The key to
the win, according to Davidson coach Betsy Brown, was her team’s defensive double-teams. Wildcat defenders smothered the Blue Devil attack
by collapsing in the fan. Maria Tucker had four goals and two assists to lead the scoring for the ‘Cats.

Later that day against the North Carolina club team, Davidson squandered a four-goal lead late in the game as fatigue
set in, and lost 17-15. The Wildcats led 14-10 with six minutes to play, but the Tar Heels used mass
substitutions of fresh players to come back. Carolina repeatedly won the draw at midfield, and scored a series of quick
goals to win the game. Brown allowed that “we lost partially just due to exhaustion.” Tucker had five goals and
three assists to lead a balanced Davidson attack.

Brown had anticipated Wednesday afternoon’s game at Guilford (a varsity Division II program) to be an indicator of where the
program is headed. She got some positive feedback on that question in a 10-7 Davidson win. The key to the
game may have been that the Quakers, who had defeated other area club teams, did not take the Wildcats all
that seriously. The ‘Cats found the net in the first minute and followed that goal with two more to take
an early lead. “I think we caught them off guard,” Brown said. The two teams played the remainder of the
game on fairly even terms, but the Quakers could never overcome Davidson’s quick start. “In the end,” said Brown, “we
just dug in and held onto the lead, and it was nice to see.” Megan Snyder scored six times and
Tucker twice for the ‘Cats.

Davidson met N.C. State’s club team Sunday afternoon in Raleigh. The Wildcats play at home Saturday and Sunday against Wake
Forest and UNC-Greensboro.

Balestier

Continued from page 8

for just $75,000, but Holland is vehement in his assertion that it is not worth having a track program at
that level. “I’d rather not have a track team than have the track that we had,” he says. Holland says
“we want the best facility we can possibly have,” and insists that a quality track program can be built using
a fine facility, rather than scholarships, as the primary attractor. And in a program anchored by a facility, he reasons,
many more people, including the student body and the Davidson community, will benefit from its use, rather than just a
few scholarship-holders. In addition, high school meets could be held at such a track.

But a track worth having will set Davidson back at least $500,000, and, with the athletic budget frozen (by agreement),
that sets up a monumental task of fundraising. All of the money for the new track must come from private
contributors, and former Davidson track athletes will be a specific target. Holland hopes to begin construction this summer or next
fall, but the starting date will depend on the amount of capital that has been collected. And realistically, construction, if
it is going to happen, cannot wait all that long. A wait of more than a year would render the
already dwindling base of track athletes virtually non-existent, and would likely mark a point of no return for the Davidson
track programs. In such a case, the programs might be dropped entirely. So the fundraising race is on. Says Holland,
“I don’t think we’ve lost ground; the question is can we gain ground. That question can’t be answered yet.”

Student Faculty Social
Thursday, April 9
Chambers Lobby

Sponsored by SGA in correlation with Spencer, Rusk, Fonter, Warner Hall, BSC, SAE, FIJI, KS, SPE and the Committee

THE OFFICE OF ADMISSION WOULD LIKE TO THANK ALL THOSE STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF WHO PARTICIPATED IN DISCOVER DAVIDSON

THANK YOU!

THE DAY WAS A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS

THE DAVIDSON

TOPCATS

WANT YOU!!

There will be audition/try-outs for students interested in "sharing the experience"

Join the 92/93 TOPCAT DANCE TEAM

Wednesday 4/8 at 7 pm

Dance Room at Baker Sports Complex

For further info call Jeanette - 663 - 2665 or see any TOPCAT

BE THERE FOR THE "FUN" OF IT!
