By Sean Lind

Beginning this semester, Davidson Auxiliary Services will use a new “Bonus Bucks” dining system.

Under the new plan, students receive an up-front sum on their declining balance at the beginning of the semester. These
“Bonus Bucks” can be used anytime at the Union Cafe, at lunch at Baker, and late nights at the soon-to-be-open
“Union Outpost.” 10-meal cardholders are given $80 in “Bonus Bucks,” 14-meal $90, and 19-meal $100.

According to the Campus Network, “Bonus Bucks” will be “replacing the rather decadent meal exchange program that required one to
use a contract meal for purchases at the Union Cafe and the limited [sic] use of meal plan to breakfast
and lunch.”

Under the old “free-flow of meals” plan, a student could either receive a meal at the Commons or $3.60 credit
at the Union. Meals could be exchanged at the Union only before 4 P.M.

According to Carleton Pritchard, Director of Auxiliary Services, “one of the problems was that ‘meals’ that people were consuming were
basically going in the form of groceries.” Second, students weren’t allowed to use “free-flow” meals at the Union during dinner
hours. And finally, students had to use all $3.60, or the remaining credit would be “lost.”

Over the summer, Pritchard contacted other quality colleges and universities to examine meal-plan options. “Bonus Bucks” had been used by
other colleges with success and was the most appealing alternative.

Pritchard stressed that the new “Bonus Bucks” are in a trial stage, and that the Dining Services is always open
to comments and suggestions.

---

The Davidson College Renaissance Ensemble

Dr. Yvonne Kendall, director

WELCOMES

SINGERS: We are a chamber ensemble singing music from the 12th through the 16th centuries using 1-2 people per part.
No prior renaissance singing experience required.

DANCERS: The dancers will perform authentic historical group and couple dances from France, Italy, and England. No dancing experience required,
but experienced dancers are welcome.

INSTRUMENTALISTS: We have a harpsichord, recorders, renaissance flutes, a medieval harp, a medieval fiddle, flute, crumhorns, and various other instruments.
Adventurous players of the following modern instruments are encouraged to come: Keyboards, guitar, sax, guitar, percussion, flute.

Organizational meeting
Monday, August 31

---

Welcome Back

Davidson Screen Printers, your local supplier for T-shirts, sweatshirts, and other imprinted sportswear, is now conveniently located just down the
street from the Davidson College campus.

Visit Us and Pick Up Your Davidson "Paw" T-shirt for just $8.00 including Tax! (offer good through September 4th)

Davidson Screen Printers
428 South Main Street
P.O. Box 126
Davidson, N.C. 28036
Tel. (704) 892-5973
Christine & Ken Hageman

We specialize in working with organizations and clubs on special event and identity items.

---

Reach Out Volunteer Drive

Thursday, September 3
9 PM---Union 900 Room

EAT ICE CREAM and sign up to lend a hand to help out in one or more of our twenty-one
fun and rewarding programs! Questions? Call Erin (-6625) or Grey (-6828).

---

NEW JERSEY: TURKEY FAMILY CHEESESTEAK CLUB COMBO

*2 LG. SIZE HOAGIES
*2 JR. SIZE HOAGIES
*4 CHIPS

with coupon $9.99
expires 9/30/92
Not valid with any other offer
