14 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992

Track Teams Tackle the Southern Conference

Spears Takes 400m Hurdles Title

By Peter Hurtado

The men’s track and field team ended its outdoor season this past weekend at the Southern Conference Championships at Marshall University with several historic performances. The men placed seventh out of eight teams with eleven points. Sophomore sensation Duncan “Dunkin’” Spears became Davidson’s first individual Southern Conference champion since the late 1970s with his first-place finish in the 400m hurdles at 54.93. Duncan’s time of 54.26 two weeks earlier at the Duke Invitational makes him Davidson’s second fastest ever.

Senior Ted “Otis” Richardson ended his spectacular career with a stellar 5000m performance of 15:17.5. Ted finishes as Davidson’s fourth-best in the 5000m and is certainly one of the school’s finest mid-distance runners ever. Senior Chris “Rock” Otrok also closed out his outstanding and steady career with fine performances in the 1500m and 5000m runs. The 1500m corps of Pete “ICE” Hurtado (4:03.4), Erik “E-Man” McMichael (4:08.7), and senior John “Cutting Edge” Alsobrook (4:15.7) ended their seasons with personal best performances. Hurtado’s 4:06 effort at the conference

See "Track" on page 15

Golf Team Closes Season at District III Tournament

By Bruce Balestier

A year ago, the Davidson golf team put together its finest season in recent memory, a breakthrough season that included a tournament win at the Ferrum College Invitational. So despite the loss to graduation of consistent senior Mike Maggart, Davidson Coach Gordon Miewz entertained expectations of a repeat performance. But, perhaps owing to the youthful nature of the team (almost entirely freshmen and sophomores), the scores simply have not come this year. Davidson closed out a rather disappointing season with a seventh-place finish at the Big South Conference Championship and a last-place showing among 23 teams at the NCAA District II Tournament.

At the Big South Tournament, held April 6-7 at the Colonial Charters Golf Club in North Myrtle Beach, S.C., the results went according to form. As had happened in previous tournaments, Davidson finished well ahead of UNC-Asheville but significantly behind the other conference schools. Davidson’s 326-322-331=979 gave them seventh place over UNCA by a slim 93 stroke margin. As he has all year, sophomore Will McDaniel led the Wildcats, shooting 81-80-79=240 to finish 22nd. Marc Raber also played well, shooting rounds of 80 and 78 in the first and third rounds, but illness forced him out of the second round. Freshman Hal Fogleman carded the low Davidson score of the tournament with a 76 that Mietz saw as a breakthrough round. “[Hal has] had very good nine-hole rounds before, but this is the first time he’s put two nine-hole scores together,” Mietz said.

See "Golf" on page 15

Women's Team Places Sixth

By Peter Hurtado

The Davidson women’s track and field squad ended its season last weekend with several outstanding performances at the Southern Conference Championships at Marshall University. The women placed sixth overall with fourteen points. Senior Kathy “Teach” Beach ended her historic career with some stellar efforts. At the conference championships, Beach placed second in the 1500m and then fifth in the 5000m later the same afternoon. Two weeks earlier, she recorded a school-record time of 4:40.3 at the Duke Invitational. Beach, truly Davidson’s finest woman distance runner ever, finishes with school records in the women’s indoor and outdoor 1500m, 3000m, and 5000m.

Freshman Maria “Mar-I-ya” Whitehead finished her sensational season with a fifth-place finish at 67.6 in the 400m hurdles at the conference meet. She also placed eighth in the triple jump with a jump of 33'3". Whitehead set the school record a week earlier with a leap of 34'4". Heather “Zip” Tarpley placed fifth in the discus with a hurl of 119'11". Tarpley hopes to eclipse the outdoor record next season. Jean “Jeez Louise” DeMoss closed her season out with a personal best time of 5:08.6 in the 1500m. She will return next fall as captain of the cross country team. Freshman Carolyn “Muppet” Meadows showed promise with excellent performances in the 3000m (11:22) and 5000m (19:30) at the Duke Meet. Meadows showed her toughness at the conference meet, gritting out the 10,000m run in 41:58 to place 11th. Lisa “Sit-ke” Sitek recorded fine times in the 3000m and the 5000m to end her season. Sitek looks to be a mainstay for the cross-country squad next fall.Coaches Andrew and Manson were quite pleased with the squad’s performances. Both bid a warm farewell to senior captain Kathy Beach, and are excited about the promise shown by the underclassmen.

Women's Lacrosse Finishes 7-2 Campaign in First Season
By Bruce Balestier

With wins over the club teams from N.C. State and Duke over the last three weeks, the Davidson women’s lacrosse team completed its initial season at the club level with a 7-2 record. Both losses came to the club team from North Carolina.

The Wildcats claimed a 15-10 win over State on April 5 in Raleigh in what coach Betsy Brown frankly called “a pretty easy game.” There was plenty of playing time for everyone, including some unexpected time in goal for freshman Cat Grimmell. Grimmell, who had never before played goalie, spent the first half in goal when starter Kelly Perry was late arriving for the game. The Davidson attack dominated the game; Claire Hall, Maria Tucker, Nancy Hilles, and Jennifer Plowright combined for all the scoring. Brown quipped that the biggest obstacle for her team to overcome was the noise from a live band on an adjacent field.

Davidson closed out the season on April 14 with a 15-12 win over Duke in Durham. The ‘Cats opened up a close game with a couple of goals in the final quarter, and then went into a stall, keeping the ball in their end for five minutes to preserve the lead. Megan Snyder’s seven goals powered the Davidson attack; Hall, Plowright, Tucker, and Hilles also scored. Brown gave special credit to junior Jane Mount for her “exceptional” performance in goal.

The team’s success this season is having an unforeseen effect on next year’s schedule. It is Brown’s intention to schedule a number of Division III schools from the Old Dominion Athletic Conference next year, but the team’s win over Division III Guilford may make such schools wary of scheduling Davidson. Teams may feel that they have little to gain in playing a club team that likely will beat them. Regardless of the schedule, the team stands to be wildly successful again next year (their last as a club team), since it loses only two seniors, Tucker and Liz Bruins Slot. “I think that we’ll be really competitive with the ODAC schools,” Brown said. “I think it’s just a matter of them giving us a chance.”

“We believe the report is accurate, thoughtful, and fair”
QUOTE OF THE YEAR — “Some students deliberately set out to get intoxicated” - The Select Committee

Honorable Mention
“They (Davidson students) are more conformist—intellectual conformists. They sometimes lack that edge, they lack that intellectual curiosity, or desire to find out something new.... At Harvard, Williams, and Washington I never encountered a group of students as consistently able as Davidson students are, but at the same time I encountered many students who were intellectually more interesting and more stimulating than many Davidson students...” - Robert C. Williams, Dean of Faculty

“In fairness, there are several points within the letter I wrote yesterday that are not accurate” - Visiting Professor A.T. Miller

“Had we published such material (A.T. Miller’s letter) the Media Board would have prosecuted our dismissal faster than we could say, ‘Hey First Amendment’” - The Davidsonian

“Oh don’t mind him, he’s just the magic little friend I keep in my pants” - David Smyth

-Robert C. Williams, Chair of the Select Committee

“Tit for tat”
“What I want to know is what is ‘tat’”

“I freely receive that well”
“Good God man!”

“The Davidsonian is just a cabal of wanna-be journalists”

Actual Trivial Pursuit Question: What is a person cursed with diphallic terata have?
Answer: Two penises.
“That’s not a curse, that’s a blessing”

“The country music scene can be described in no other way than as a family. Sure it’s competitive, but it’s loving. There are tears; there are cries of joy; and there is warmth.” - Corey Walcott

“I don’t have a buzz” - Matt Bumstead on his 21st birthday
“Matt, how the hell do you know what a buzz is?” - Tom Koonce and Max Fisher

“April is the cruelest month” - T.S. Eliot

“FLOW COS TOMBE”

“Where can I get some to trade for that other thing”
“You’re raining on my parade” - Fran Vaughn and the women of 3rd Watts

-Cabe Loring
-Nathan Rogers
-Matt Bumstead