THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1992

Still Weaving Through Kenya
By Weave Whitehead

Two weeks ago, I wrote an article describing my semester in Kenya. This week, I am going to tell about my second experience in Kenya. In case you missed last week, I will give some background. From January until May, I attended the School for Field Studies’ Center for Wildlife Management. Located on a game ranch in the savanna of southern Kenya, the school provides an excellent opportunity to study African wildlife. The course included three classes and a research project as well as three safaris. I had a most enjoyable time as a student and I returned to Kenya last summer as an intern for the School for Field Studies.

As I said in the last article, I am not able to choose which experience was “better,” for they were quite different. As a student, all of my energies were concentrated on learning about Africa and wildlife management. As staff, though, my goal was to make sure that the summer students had as much fun and learned as much as I did. The summer courses are only one month long so the instruction is not as in-depth but the material (i.e. animal, bird, and plant names) must be picked up more quickly. My jobs as an intern ranged from alarm clock to assistant teaching to supply procurement to chauffeur. When I awoke each morning, I had no idea what the day had in store for me.

During the mornings, the students conducted their research. The interns were called on to drive the research teams to their study sites and to assist with animal identification and research techniques. As a student, I spent all of my research time looking at birds. Research time as an intern was different every day. One morning I would drive the “giraffe group” to measure the feeding heights of giraffe while the next day I might be building a trap to catch Yellow-necked Spurfowl (a game bird about the size of a chicken). Because I had a hand in every research project, my knowledge of African wildlife continued to grow.

Another important part of my job was “trips into town.” This may sound trivial, but when I left for Nairobi to buy supplies, I wondered if I would ever return. My fears stemmed from the condition of the school’s Land Rovers and the quality of Kenyan driving. The school has use of six Land Rovers and Land Cruisers; at any given time, though, only four or five would be working. These trucks ate parts and drank oil insatiably (while on a safari scouting trip, I put three gallons of oil in a car in one day). If the car did not break down, there was always the possibility of an accident. A near head-on collision or two was not uncommon on a trip to Nairobi. In town, cars pack the streets and aggressive, “offensive” driving was the only way to get around.

Through my dealings with Nairobi merchants and officials in the National Parks, I realized the corrupt nature of Kenyan business and government. Any price is negotiable and bribes to police and other government officials are commonplace. My white skin and American money gave me much clout when making purchases but police officers targeted me and, on more than one occasion, fabricated charges hoping I would offer a bribe. At first, I was aghast at the widespread corruption, but I soon realized that it was just part of the system that I would learn to work with.

During the summer I was able to participate in some ranch activities that I would not have been able to witness as a student. Taking part in the capture of a giraffe for blood sampling was one of the most memorable. The ranch periodically samples blood from its giraffes in order to check for diseases that may have infected them.the population. On this occasion, the subject was a fourteen-year-old male which stood about fifteen feet tall. The giraffe was darted from a Land Rover about three hundred yards away. A drugged animal is very unpredictable for it loses its sense of direction and its vision becomes cloudy. We moved in quickly to try to prevent it from entangling itself in a fence or falling too hard. The research team attempted to trip the giraffe by wrapping a rope around its legs. The powerful animal broke the rope, though, and raced toward our Land Rover. Luckily, it fell before it reached us. When a giraffe is down, the head must be raised and temperature regulation must begin immediately. When we reached the giraffe, we found that it had broken the dart off inside itself during the fall. This unfortunate accident added confusion to the already complicated process of dealing with a drugged giraffe. Sparing you the details, the giraffe died by choking on rumen contents. Vigorous attempts to revive it were unsuccessful. This ill-fated procedure had drastic consequences for this male was one of only four permanent breeding males on the 70 square mile ranch.

Other activities such as observing the cropping (night hunts) and slaughter operations of the game ranch gave me invaluable first-hand experience in wildlife management. My internship with the School for Field Studies allowed me to reinforce and further my knowledge of Africa and wildlife management. Through my involvement in the logistical aspects of the program, I gained a greater understanding of Kenya’s economic, political, and cultural systems. Once again, if anyone has any questions about East Africa or the School for Field Studies (or just wants to hear me ramble more), don’t hesitate to call me.

Reach Out at Davidson

Davidson Elementary Tutoring:

Davidson Elementary Tutoring has started the year with a bang! Each day Monday through Thursday from 3 to 5 p.m., Davidson students head to the Ada Jenkins Center to tutor and build friendships with children from Davidson Elementary School. Tutoring makes a big difference in the lives of these children, many of whom need extra help and attention. Davidson students have also gone to the Center to play their musical instruments and talk about music to the children. The BSC held a welcome-back party for the children too. The kids love to interact with college students. The co-chairpersons of Davidson Elementary Tutoring have started a project to improve the dental hygiene of the kids. A dentist donated some toothbrushes, and every day after snack, the children have fun brushing their teeth together.

While the program is going great, more tutors are needed. If you want to do some fun and rewarding volunteer work, please contact Lindsay Shoemaker (-6646), Treloar Tredennick (-1), or Vernelle Trim (-6286). Every Tuesday from 4 to 5 p.m. and 6 to 7 p.m. and Thursday from 6 to 7 p.m., Davidson tutors drive into Charlotte to tutor elementary school children from different ethnic backgrounds, who live in low-income housing. This tutoring is especially needed, due to language barriers that these children face. The tutors help the children with their homework and read with them each time. Davidson students are also invited to share a meal with the children at the church, but are asked to pay $1. The time commitment is small, but the rewards are great. This new Reach Out program needs lots of volunteers to help make a difference in these children’s lives. Please call Mary-Gwyn Sansom or Luila Roos (-6637), if interested. Rides to Charlotte are provided.

TENS & FRIDAYS. 256 BIG WINGS “BIG, FAT, JUICY ONES!” THURSDAYS: SHRIMP 2 for 1 “CHILLED, SPICED, CRACKED” $1.15 MARGARITAS $1.15 MEXICAN BEERS HOT, CHIPS Free BEER... GET IT ICE COLD RED (12 oz) $1.25 (PITCHER) $9.99 LOCATED AT TRONS END - OPEN FROM 11:20 AM MON THRU SAT... TREMONTE SOUTH BIND: ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EAST BLVD. 377-3377