6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

NEWS

Zumwalt Changes Directions with Newest Novel

By Russ Tarver

Associate Professor of Anthropology Dr. Rosemary Zumwalt recently published her third book, *Wealth and Rebellion: Elsie Clews Parsons, Anthropologist and
Folklorist.* The book details the life of early twentieth-century sociologist Elsie Clews Parsons.

After her first two books, *American Folklore Scholarship: A Dialogue of Dissent* published in 1988 and *The Enigma of Arnold
van Gennep (1873-1957)* also published in 1988, Zumwalt was ready for a change of direction. “I had decided that I
wasn’t going to do another book on the history of folklore scholarships, since I had already written two. I decided
to do something which would enable me to do some fieldwork.”

A good friend and colleague of Zumwalt, Dr. Roger Abrams, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, provided the majority
of Zumwalt’s inspiration. “He suggested to me that the time was right for someone to work on [a book about]
Elsie Clews Parsons.”

Zumwalt undertook an immense amount of research while writing this biography. While researching, Zumwalt discovered that Parsons was far more
socially significant than expected. “I [originally] thought I would be writing a book on Parsons as a folklorist and anthropologist.
As it turned out, her papers (housed at the American Philosophical Society in Philadelphia) were incredibly rich and diverse. She
had letters from phenomenally important people. I found that I couldn’t limit myself to one aspect of her life and
it became a much larger project than I anticipated.”

“She had very wide webs in terms of her interest and social connections,” says Zumwalt. Parsons’ social circle included such
gentry as President Taft and Theodore Roosevelt. “The people that knew Parsons wanted to discourage her from going into anthropology
because they thought her writings in social psychology, feminism, and social convention were more important.”

Not only were Parsons’ vast explorations and writings important, but her immense wealth enabled her to make generous contributions towards
research and educational advancement. “Everybody knew that she was very generous with her money in terms of supporting scholarly societies,”
says Zumwalt. However, “prior to recent research on Parsons, much of what was emphasized was her wealth. I think this
emphasis was a disservice to her because she was gifted in intellect and spirit as well. Those gifts are, in
many ways, more important than her wealth.”

Despite her intense interest in the subject matter, Zumwalt’s primary motivation leading to her rapid completion of the book (she
began her research in 1988 and the book was published in 1992) came from the ever-increasing threat of competition. “In
the course of my research, many other people began working on Parsons. I was trying to finish my book before
everybody else came out with theirs. There was a tremendous amount of pressure. I was running to keep ahead of
everybody else.”

Zumwalt explains that she did much of her research in the American Philosophical Society Library in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. “In addition,
I had to follow the trail of Parsons’ letters.” Zumwalt traveled all over the country tracing Parsons’ many letters. The
majority were found at the University of California at Berkeley and the Rye Historical Society in Rye, New York, once
one of Parsons’ residences.

Zumwalt describes a trip to Parsons’ New York home, “In her attic, there were boxes of letters which had been
unopened since she had opened them. We weren’t able to even skim the surface of what was there.”

Perhaps the most satisfying result of Zumwalt’s endeavor was Parsons’ granddaughter’s response to the biography upon its publication. “She wrote
saying she’d read the book and that it was exciting to read what I had written. She was able to
piece together things that she knew, but hadn't known how they fit in. They [Parsons’ family members] are able to
read this and be able to bring to bear their own personal knowledge. She [Parsons’ granddaughter] found it very interesting.”

With a Ph.D. in cultural anthropology, Zumwalt has been an anthropology professor at Davidson since 1983. She is currently finishing
yet another sociological undertaking, “My husband and I are working on a book on Jewish-Spanish magic and superstition. We interviewed
people in Greece, Yugoslavia, Turkey, and Israel.” She is unsure about future projects; however, she fears it will be another
intellectual biography.

---

Classifieds

Earn Free Spring Break Trips & $2500 Selling Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & Prices!
1-800-678-6386

Spring Break '93

Panama City Beach, Florida

Sales Representative Needed to Work with the #1 Spring Break Team. TRAVEL ASSOCIATES ARE LOOKING FOR STUDENT GROUPS TO SPONSOR
US ON YOUR CAMPUS. FAST, EASY, BIG MONEY. CALL 800-592-2121 EXT. 309.

Help Wanted

Baby-sitter needed for two girls. Flexible Hours. Non-Smoking. Driving Preferred. Experience With Children. Call Sandy. (704) 528-6039

Earn Top Commission and Free Trips In Just One Week! $$$$, FREE TRAVEL AND RESUME EXPERIENCE! Individuals and Student Groups
Wanted For Spring Break Travel Sales. 1-800-558-3002

HORSES BOARDED

Excellent facilities near lake campus, full stall care. $190 per month. 892-0247

GREEKS & CLUBS

Earn Top Commission and Free Trips In Just One Week! $$$$, FREE TRAVEL AND RESUME EXPERIENCE! No obligation. No cost.
You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65

---

10% off Chinchilla and Fleece with Davidson ID through Nov. 16

SIERRA DESIGNS

Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.

---

Organizational meeting Union Conference Room November 5, 6:30 p.m.

Don't need to be certified - call Tom Hunter for more information at 896-8291

---

Pizza Engineers

892-9046

12" Pizza w/ Two Toppings $4.99

16" Pizza w/ Two Toppings $6.99

18" Pizza w/ Two Toppings $8.99

Free Delivery
