10 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

Achtung, Baby!
Continued from page 8

to time, exist purely for enjoyment. And Bono doesn’t have to save the world, but he can just sing about
his own personal concerns. Indeed, themes regarding personal relationships dominate the lyrics of Achtung Baby. One telling line comes on
the song “Trying to Throw Your Arms Around the World.” Bono sings, “A woman needs a man like a fish
needs a bicycle / When you’re trying to throw your arms around the world.” This borrowed line hints that he
feels some regret at the way the band has lived the last ten years. Perhaps a return to real life,
to their lives, is the best way to live, because it is impossible to save the world and engage in
successful relationships with the people around you. The whole album reflects this attitude. Achtung Baby conspicuously lacks crusades, as the
band is concerned more with themselves than with the world around them.

“One” takes a hard look at a relationship that has failed, as Bono tries to understand all of the problems
and negative emotions. As usual, the feeling with which he sings takes it beyond its limits, and the music itself
is enjoyable. A muted guitar gently progresses, carrying the listener’s ear with it. But gentle guitars do not mark this
album. Instead, U2 employs a funkier sound, as on the current hit song “Mysterious Ways.” Most of the stuff is
really danceable, with bass and drums prominent. The crunchy guitar sound that marks The Unforgettable Fire is there, but it
is backed up by a bouncier percussion section. Just as they have realigned their lyrics, so has U2 slightly changed
their music. While the sound seems a little obscure, it quickly proves itself quality pop material.

Pop material is not always good, though, and Achtung Baby does have its failures. As they have been overzealous with
their world-saving songs in the past, they occasionally go a little too far with their songs of personal redemption here.
The worst example is “Who’s Gonna Ride Your Wild Horses,” a melodramatic teeny-bopper ballad which would have fit perfectly on
the Breakfast Club soundtrack. Other than the occasional melodrama, though, Achtung Baby succeeds. Buy it, and you’ll see that U2
is not the same band that was always trying to tell us what to do three years ago.

J.F.K.
Continued from page 8

tinct that the film maintains absolute clarity. Stone’s use of sound effects to amplify the characters’ mental condition is reminiscent
of Francis Ford Coppola’s very best work.

The problems with J.F.K. are far less subtle than the film’s high points. As in Platoon, Talk Radio, and Born
on the Fourth of July, Stone moralizes and propagandizes relentlessly. His script portrays Garrison as an unsung hero-god whose reputation
has been tarnished by “the establishment” for challenging the findings of the Warren Commission. With all the subtlety of a
sledgehammer, Stone has Costner stand before both the Lincoln Memorial and the Eternal Flame as the last remaining American with
a conscience. Costner’s tear-besmirched closing argument about Kennedy’s position as America’s last hope evokes laughter from the more cynical members
of the audience.

Casting aside Stone’s plainly annoying grandstanding, J.F.K. is a fascinating study in the theories surrounding Kennedy’s assassination, and makes for
a fantastically exciting movie.

Davidson Arts
Covering College Culture Since 1991

MOVIES AT THE LAKE
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS 892-3841

Hook (PG) 3:30, 7:05, 9:50
Prince of Tides (R) 3:30, 7:15, 9:50
The Hand that Rocks the Cradle (R) 3:15, 5:25, 7:35, 9:45
Freejack (R) 3:20, 5:30, 7:40, 9:50
Kuffs (PG13) 3:05, 5:30, 7:40, 9:50
Father of the Bride (PG) 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, 9:30
JFK (R) 3:30, 7:30
Beauty & The Beast (G) 3:10, 5:05, 7:00

The Davidsonian can always use your talents. We are ever in need of writers, editors, photographers, and computer technicians to
help us accomplish our weekly task. Call David Thompson, Walter Price, or David Smyth if interested.

WORK & PLAY
As a whitewater raft guide in West Virginia. Experience notrequired. Must be 18 years old. Contact: Passages to Adventure, P.O.
Box 71, Fayetteville, WV 25840 1-800-634-3785

1. Scientific Campus Paperback Bestsellers
- Progress Goes “Boink,” by Bill Watterson. (Andrews & McMeel, $7.95.) Latest Calvin & Hobbes cartoons.
- Unnatural Selection, by Gary Larson. (Andrews & McMeel, $7.95.) Collection of Far Side cartoons.
- You Just Don't Understand, by Deborah Tannen. (Ballantine, $10.00.) How men and women can understand each other better.
- Possession, by A. S. Byatt. (Vintage, $10.00.) A romance between two Victorian poets as seen by two British academics.
- Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, by Stephen R. Covey. (Fireside, $9.95.) Guide to personal and professional effectiveness.
- The Plains of Passage, by Jean M. Auel. (Crown, $24.95.) A novel set in prehistoric times.
- Jurassic Park, by Michael Crichton. (Ballantine, $5.99.) A theme park's cloned dinosaurs are creating a world crisis.
- The Education of Little Tree, by Forrest Carter. (Univ. of New Mexico, $10.95.) Growing up with the Cherokee way
of life.
- All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten, by Robert Fulghum. (Ivy, $5.95.) Uncommon thoughts on common
things.
- Four Past Midnight, by Stephen King. (Signet, $8.99.) Late-night hours with horror and terror.

December 18, 1991

New & Recommended
A personal selection of Sharon Marbury, Penn State Bookstore, University Park, PA
- The Weight of Water, by Anita Shreve. (Little, Brown, $5.99.) Unique Martha Horgan.
- A Dangerous Woman, by Mary McGarry Morris. (Viking, $10.00.) A portrait of a woman who teeters on the edge
of madness, filled with insights into the cruelties of small-town life.

The Henfield Prize
- The Outlaw Years, by Laura Gilpin, Joseph. (Harper, $9.99.) Award-winning fiction.

Canyon Continued from page 8
- Steve Martin’s character, an obscenely wealthy film producer, rises and falls according to the emotional swings from a near-fatal
mugging. He stands in sharp contrast to the rest of the main characters by the end of the film as
the epiphany he experiences immediately after his recovery in the hospital wears off when he gets back to his not-so
socially redeeming work. The final shot of the Grand Canyon itself, the symbol of everything that transcends bullets and movies
and abandoned babies, is effective even if undeveloped. One can see the Kasdans becoming more and more despondent about society’s
increasingly self-destructive tendencies and then taking a trip out to the biggest hole in the Earth and saying, “Wow...maybe it’s
not so bad.” Granted, thinking in terms of geological time doesn’t seem so comforting when your house is being artificially
ventilated with machine gun fire, but looking at the larger scheme of things cannot always hurt. All of the actors
pull off their roles. In addition to those I’ve already mentioned, Mary McDonnell plays Kline’s wonderfully compassionate and life-cherishing wife.
Alfre Woodard, too, is effectual in a smaller role as Glover’s new girlfriend. Even McDonnell’s fifteen-year-old son Roberto comes off
as being “much less of a punk than most kids are at that age,” said alumnus Bryan Kirtley ’90. Those
who are looking for the Big Chill of the Nineties, as this movie has been billed, will be disappointed. Grand
Canyon is not cute and doesn’t pretend to be. It is a stark look at a suicidal American culture that
does not proffer a prescription for our ills but at least points toward reasons for not blowing ourselves up. Do
yourself a favor and see this film.

SPRING BREAK '92
- Jamaica & Cancun, from $409
- Panama City Beach, from $119

Earn Cash & Free Travel By Becoming a Campus Representative. Call STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES 1-800-648-4849

HANGOVER HELPER
- A Late Nite on Patterson Court? Come To Steak-n-Hoagie for REST & RELAXATION
- Buy Any Full Size Hoagie and a Bag of Chips, Get a BIG 32oz Beverage of Your Choice for
just 25 cents. Just Mention the "Hangover Helper" Deal
