OPINIONS 8 MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

I would like to start this article by posing a few questions. Does your stomach ever get queasy when you
see a televangelist whack someone over the head and say, “Be healed by the power of Jesus?” Do bumper stickers
that read “In case of rapture, this car will be unoccupied” bug the hell out of you (no pun intended)?
Does the term “born again” make you think of some Bible-thumping, civil liberties restricting, self-righteous fanatic ready to sentence you
to eternal damnation? If you answered “yes” to any or all of these questions, please continue reading. And if you
didn’t, well, you have nothing else to do sitting on the toilet, so you might as well read the rest
of this article.

In writing this article I do not wish to ridicule anyone’s opinions or beliefs. I am also not going to
preach to anyone. (God knows this happens enough on this campus.) I would just like to explore the nature of
clichés and stereotypes involved with the Christian religion and attempt to dig deeper and see if any “truth” can be
found.

Webster’s defines clichés as being “anything that has become trite or commonplace through overuse.” With such a definition, it would
seem as if Christianity itself has become one big cliché constructed of many smaller clichés. Because of overuse, I can
understand why phrases such as “my walk with the Lord” or “being born again” have lost meaning for some and
become threatening to others. (Personally, whenever anyone asks me how my “walk” is going, I feel like answering, “Well, I
kind of plod from side to side and I think that I look too stiff.”)

In keeping with the practice of dictionary quoting which seems rampant in the opinions section, Webster’s defines a stereotype as
“a simplified and standardized conception or image of a person, group, etc.” Although we are all guilty of some form
of stereotypical amplification, I still feel that any form of stereotype, whether it is racial, religious, or political, robs an
individual of his or her innate human dignity. Just something to think about the next time we have the urge
to call someone a Bible thumper, feminazi, tree hugger, Mr. Charlie, or nigger.

OK, so where is the truth or even the Christianity in this article? Since I do not claim to possess
the truth, I will only try to point in its general direction. Do you ever just sit and look at
the stars and think “Wow, I wonder how they really got there?” Or have you ever just sat and laughed
with a friend, just because you enjoyed each other’s company? Do you ever just close your eyes, empty your heart
and mind of even the concept of yourself as an individual and just passively or serenely melt into existence itself?
If you haven’t done these things I encourage you to do so. Who knows what or whom you may encounter?

TOURIST => = CAROLINA CALIFORNIA FLORIDA TOURIST Distributed by Tribune Media Services

‘Tak CHARLOTTE TOURIST

Blame it on Texas: Suzanna Young

Why can't country musicians dress well?

This week the world was witness to the greatest night in country music. No, it was not Garthmania ‘93 (and
thank God it’s over. Now I can listen to the radio in peace. Finally. The concerts sold out so quickly
because every radio station in the tri-state area bought all the tickets so they could start giving them away in
June), but the 27th Annual CMA Awards. That’s Country Music Association, if you can’t figure it out.

The show is an array of various amazing performances and tributes, a few awards, and also a chance for country
music stars to show their off-stage personalities or, in the case of Reba McEntire, who showed a little more than
just her personality, to show what country music as a whole just can’t do, which is dress. What was up
with that outfit, Reba?

The CMA started out with one strike against them in the area of fashion when someone forgot to coordinate the
co-hosts, Clint Black and Vince Gill. First of all, Clint is five-foot-ten with his boots on, and Vince is a
pretty big boy. Also, Clint, who can do no wrong as far as I’m concerned, appeared from the left, neatly
dressed in a tux jacket, jeans, and his trademark black hat. From the right side, out lumbered Vince Gill in
a retro-seventies smoking jacket, which didn’t exactly fit with his Jason Priestly wanna-be hairdo, and definitely clashed with his dimpled
co-host. I don’t know what statement the CMA was trying to make, but I assure you that not everyone involved
in country music is color blind.

Perhaps the most talked about event in the whole program was George Jones’ acceptance of the award for Best Vocal
Event for “I Don’t Need Your Rocking Chair.” The catch here is that George didn’t exactly accept the award in
person because he was in the bathroom when the award was presented, as his wife, Nancy, so thoughtfully informed the
audience while the rest of the free world watched via satellite. My theory is, however, that while the other artists
who helped George record the song, which pretty much cleared outevery dressing room in the theater, were on stage to
accept the award, George was backstage writing in Vince Gill’s name as winner of every award he was nominated for.
That has to be it, because Vince won way too many awards for anyone with such bad taste in clothes.
Besides, his songs all sound the same. Then there was Tanya Tucker, exposing her six-pack stomach to the world once
again. I have heard that Tanya has been hired to lead a workout video called “Abs of Steel," set to
many of her greatest hits and in the spirit of Cher’s best-selling “Buns of Steel.” My only question is why?
Again, I have a theory. You see, Tanya is on the road a lot and probably doesn’t eat a balanced
diet. Well, not eating right can sometimes lead to, well, irregularity, which, in turn, can lead to extreme discomfort and
sometimes affect the brain. The best part of the CMA Awards, besides George Jones’ rendition of “Hello Darlin’,” in honor
of the late, great Conway Twitty, was the order. It was truly incredible that both Garth Brooks and Billy Ray
Cyrus (my apologies to Billy Ray for that unfair grouping) were both scheduled to perform during “Melrose Place.” So they
can’t avoid a simple and obvious fashion faux pas, but they sure know how to get their timing right.

Susan Beale

Say what you believe. Say what you believe. I wrote that sentence in a previous article in September, but because
I was focusing on another issue, I could not describe in great detail exactly what I meant. What was I
implying in that statement? Many injustices exist in this world because we simply do not look within ourselves for answers.
Much of what we accept as completely normal is probably in actuality, unjust and unfair. For example, sight to realize
our society’s inequities. Therefore, you may ask, how can we perceive what is unjust and evil? Though we are all
influenced and possibly indoctrinated by beliefs and standards since birth, we can discover truths by questioning ourselves. Though we all
have a set of rules and morals that we have learned, some of these standards may be outdated or possibly
unjust. Most of our values and opinions were conceived by ordinary people: I remember speaking with a couple (about my
parents' age) who lived in Georgia in the early 1960s: they recounted "Some of the beliefs which we accept as
completely normal must be incorrect." and we all know that humans are certainly not perfect. Therefore, some of the beliefs
which we accept as completely normal must be incorrect. That when they went into the city and had to use
the restroom or drink from a water fountain, they would always search for the sign displaying the word “whites." If
the “blacks” would ever have dared to drink from the forbidden fountain, they would have been criticized, ridiculed, and possibly
even arrested. In our age of Political Correctness (PC), it may seem shocking that such injustices occurred; but according to
this couple, many law-abiding citizens never questioned these standards, but merely accepted these rules as fact. What frightens me when
I recall this conversation, is that I can envision a large percentage of people in our generation acting the same
if we were placed in such a situation. Many of us at Davidson believe what we do is “right”: i.e.,
we obey laws and regulations, do not steal or cheat, and study diligently so we will acquire a lucrative job.
(I am certainly not saying that these goals are wrong, but I am stressing the fact that we are doing
what others expect of us). As products of our society, we usually strive to fulfill what is accepted as normal.
In the same context, many people in the 1960s assumed that these laws and rules were just, because they simply
never questioned the norm. Unfortunately, it is very simple for us to criticize the sins of the past, for we
often require hindsight to realize our society’s inequities. I am therefore encouraging the student body as intelligent and inquisitive students
to think freely and independently. If you notice someone is treated unfairly, try to muster the courage to voice your
opinion. I read once that almost every insightful opinion or revolutionary idea that we now accept as completely normal was
at one time hated and rebuked. To put this in perspective, if people had never stood up against injustices, our
world would be a very different place: for example, Hitler might have been the ruler of Europe (and possibly the
world), the Jewish race might have been exterminated, African-Americans might still be enslaved in America, and (on a more personal
level), I might not even be allowed to write this article or study at Davidson, because at one time, a
woman’s role was merely “dutiful passive homemaker.” If enough people had not realized these aspects of society were unjust, they
would never have changed. I am not saying we need to speed over to Roses, buy supplies for protest banners
and march around campus; but I am saying that as gifted students at a liberal arts college, it is practically
our obligation to analyze what we have been taught, question some of our own beliefs, and decide for ourselves what
is truly right.
