6 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

The Week in Washington

NAFTA may hinder GATT talks

By Brett Marston

Final passage of NAFTA directs U.S. attention to the Dec. 15th deadline for completion of the Uruguay round of negotiations
on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT. Dissenting with the Clinton Administration’s argument that NAFTA will give
the U.S. a bargaining chip in these negotiations, some analysts fear that NAFTA reflects a disturbing trend toward regionalization which
is contrary to GATT’s goals of increased universalization and liberalization of world trade.

What is GATT?

“Despite the repeated assurances of editorial writers that a GATT accord would inject a whopping dose of moxie into the
ailing world economy,” writes Michael Baller in last May’s issue of the Columbia Journalism Review, “it seems that the appearance
in print of this four-letter acronym... has been enough to glaze the eyes of readers and reporters alike.”

In 1947, while discussions of an International Trade Organization (ITO) were underway, representatives from 23 countries agreed on a set
of mutual tariff reductions which they named GATT. The ITO never materialized, and in 1948 GATT became the main forum
for international trade negotiations (L. Alan Winters, “The Road to Uruguay,” in The Economic Journal, Dec. 1990, 1289). Today GATT
has 111 members, and an additional few dozen countries apply GATT rules.

The positive effects of GATT on the world economy have been striking. According to many analysts, the reduction of tariffs
and increased international competition resulting from GATT negotiations have been partly responsible for the phenomenal growth in the world’s economy
since the Second World War.

Negotiations of GATT have now reached their 8th round, where they have been stuck for 7 years. In 1986, representatives
from member nations met in Punta del Este, Uruguay, to address a backlog of issues, notably trade in services, foreign
investment, intellectual property rights, and agricultural policies. Originally scheduled to conclude in 1990, negotiations dragged on until December of 1991,
when the final draft of the agreement was issued. Member states now have until December 15th to ratify the agreement.

The most significant obstacles to ratification come from the French, who object to the proposed reductions in agricultural subsidies, which
could put many French farmers out of business, and to reductions in subsidies of the entertainment industry, which would leave
French filmmakers at the mercy of a market flooded with what they feel are cheap and culturally worthless Hollywood productions.

For the U.S., of course, demands that the EC internally reduce its agricultural subsidies and reduce regulations on film and
TV do not amount to altruism. Since the 1970s the U.S. has been losing its hold on world agricultural markets.
Further, audiovisual products are the U.S.’s second biggest export to the EC.

So how will NAFTA affect the outcome of the Uruguay round? Democratic analyst Ted Van Dyk, writing in the New
York Times recently, fears the worst: “By suggesting that NAFTA should be expanded gradually southward into Latin America and by
implying that the U.S. should consider joining a new Pacific bloc,” Van Dyk warns, “Mr. Clinton ... has undermined the
global regime of economic and financial liberalization that has served the post-war world so well.” According to Van Dyk, NAFTA
may lead other countries to try to form regional economic blocks, and thus may end up dividing the world market.

Others, including the economist C. Michael Aho in a recent article in International Affairs (“America and the Pacific Century: Trade
Conflict or Cooperation?”, Jan. 1993, 19-27), argue that if negotiations of GATT continue to stall, Clinton has no other choice
but to push for regional trade agreements.

Other sources: U.S. Department of State Dispatch, Aug. 10, 1992, The Dean Rusk Program

Mafia & black market vs. the people: The two faces of Russia

By Giannis Papagiannis

I spent last summer traveling in Russia (including Siberia) and experienced the everyday life of the Russian people. I was
fascinated by the amount of time that people spend together. They sit and talk and they get to know each
other very well. Friendship and other human values have always been important to Russians.

Unfortunately, things are changing now as life for many Russians becomes harder day by day. Two unknown phenomena make their
debut in Russian society: hunger and unemployment. As a result, people have started focusing on money, money, money. Inflation is
uncontrollable because while prices skyrocket, salaries remain the same. Human values are losing precedence to the value of the Ruble.

The biggest problem in Russia right now is that there is a large separation of the classes. There is one
or two percent of very wealthy people, and then there are the poor masses. What we call middle class in
western Europe is non-existent in Russia. Only lately have there been some hints of a bourgeois Russian class.

The wealthy class consists of the members of the Russian Mafia and black marketers. These Russian “businessmen” are gaining billions
of dollars after establishing a monopoly in the distribution of goods inside Russia and the other ex-Soviet republics. Moreover, they
act as a monopsony in the natural resources market of Russian oil, metals, arms, and high technology. A few weeks
ago I read that Russian “businessmen” have more than $20 billion in accounts in U.S. banks.

The Mafia and the black market are everywhere. One morning in St. Petersburg I went to change some dollars to
rubles at the bank. Most of the time, I did it in the black market on the street, but that
can be dangerous if you are alone. Many friends of mine were beaten and robbed.

I went inside the bank and the security guard asked me what I was doing there. I answered that I
wanted to change some money. He told me that he would change the money for me. I could not believe
that even the security officer of a bank wastrying to do his own business. All the taxis which serve the
Moscow airport are Mafia-owned. That means that when one arrives in Moscow and wants to go to his hotel in
the city, he has to pay an absurd price. But everyone ends up paying because he has no alternative. Most
of the apartments in Moscow and St. Petersburg have been bought by the Mafia, which rents them to foreigners for
a much higher price. And the Mafia always gets its way because it works as a monopoly. They know that
the foreign businessmen and the international students have to live somewhere and that they have to take a taxi from
the airport. A good friend of mine who is working right now in St. Petersburg was paying $250 a month
for his 2-room apartment until one morning they told him that either he could pay $500 a month or move
out. More tragic, the Russian family (with three kids) who lived next door offered him their apartment for $300 a
month while they moved to live in a communal house.

A majority of the transportation is also controlled by the Mafia. A ticket to St. Petersburg from Moscow by train
normally costs $2.50, but they were all bought in advance, and I had to pay $10. When my sister and
I decided to go to Siberia, we could not find tickets, even though the trains were half empty. They leave
20% of the tickets free only for “important” people. All the others are bought and then sold on the black
market for astronomical prices. The black market also applies to tickets for theatres and ballets. Not surprisingly, crime and violence
have sharply risen in Russia. Occasionally while walking in St. Petersburg, we would spot several people beating someone. Several mornings
I woke up and saw stores of the marketplace in my neighborhood burned, probably because the owners failed to compromise
or pay security money to the Mafia. When I went to Moscow, I read in the Moscow Times that Moscow
has higher murder rates than Chicago had in the twenties. The general anecdote these days in Russia is that: "Russia
is the only country in the world where the young men are richer than the older ones.” Many young men
work in illegal underground businesses that bring them much more money than any other profession while the older people still
depend on their small salaries. The most tragic situation is that of the senior citizens who depend on their pensions
to live. I got depressed looking at old ladies sitting on the sidewalks until late at night to sell some
bread or flowers or anything they could make or find. At the same time, I was looking at all these
Mafia people driving luxurious cars and dressing in the latest European fashions. One walks on the main streets of Moscow
and St. Petersburg and watches all the veterans from the Second World War covered with medals, without hands or feet,
begging for some money. These people who saved the whole world, who fought and became invalids for us, have nothing
to eat now. The common Russian society suffers so much. It is unbelievable how much the lower social classes have
suffered throughout Russian history. There is much social distress. When I asked about Yeltsin, the only answer I got was
that he is totally incapable of doing anything and that he does not care for anybody other than himself. I
was really confused because, on the one hand, they do not believe in Yeltsin, but on the other hand, they
support him politically. It became clear to me that the Russians support Yeltsin because they are afraid that they will
go back to communism and chaos if Yeltsin falls. “There is no one better,” they kept saying to me, “there
is no one better.”

NOTES

While traveling in Siberia, I realized the vast resources of this country. I understood the grief of all the Russians,
who say that foreigners are stealing all their natural wealth, day after day. It is sad that a rich country
like Russia is facing the same condition that a third world country does. Something has to change in this country.
As many Russians told me, there is no master in this country. There is no one that the people can
trust and work for. That is what Russia needs today. A politician who will inspire the people, give them courage,
energy, make them believe in themselves. If someone can manage that, Russia will once again win its place in the
pantheon of world superpowers.

Acknowledging Violence

"Recent scholarship suggests that the world has never seen a region or a period without violence. . . . It
is not the time now to echo the grand vision of human perfectibility and historical progression. The end of the
Utopian ideals of eternal peace should not only be interpreted as a loss, but also as an act of liberation.
It is time that new insights into the violent structure of our psyches and of modern society be turned to
committing concrete and localized acts of peace." - from "The Violence Among Us" by Bernd Huppauf, a professor of German
at NYU, in the Sunday, November 21 Op-Ed pages of The New York Times.

Illegitimacy

"The surge in illegitimacy since 1979 is no accident. It coincided with easier access to houses for single mothers and
increasing welfare benefits. It is not that teenage girls sit down with a calculator and work out if they would
be better getting pregnant. What has happened is far more subtle: 40 years ago it was punishing, because of the
social stigma and lack of welfare, if a young unmarried woman got pregnant. Today, the stigma has gone and the
housing and benefit systems make it at least possible. . . . Our social mores and welfare benefits allow illegitimacy
to flourish among the poorest; we have reaped an underclass as a result. Ministers should concentrate on encouraging the sort
of social climate and welfare reform that will reverse this sad development." - from "The Lone Parent Problem," in the
November 14 editorial pages of The London Sunday Times.
