THE DAVIDSONIAN — SPORTS | MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993. 15

SPORTS SHORTS

Narat Makes Olympics
Davidson basketball standout, Janko Narat, has been named to the Slovenian Olympic Team. Narat and his Slovenian counterparts will have
an opportunity to qualify for the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. Last summer, Narat played for the Slovenian junior national team
and gained valuable experience.

Rugby Moves Up to Division I Status
The Davidson College Rugby Football Club has moved up to Division I rugby. This advancement comes after the Wildcats finished
in second place in Division II during the Fall. Officials have not commented on whether this move will affect any
other Division I programs. The team will make their Division I debut against UNC-Charlotte on Tuesday, 13 April, at 7:00
p.m. The game will be played at UNC-Charlotte.

Women’s Tennis
With second place in the Southern Conference locked up, Davidson faced some non-conference opponents this week. Because of some extraordinary
international players at the top spots, Winthrop defeated Davidson 5-4. Later in the week, the ‘Cats rebounded from this loss
by defeating UNCC 7-2. Cynthia Hess, Jennifer Beahm, and Tasha Ruth Kimberly Nance '95 all played well. This coming weekend,
Davidson will host the Southern Conference Women’s Tennis Tournament.

Women's Track Gearing
By Peter Hurtado
The women’s track and field team took one more step towards a great showing at the Southern Conference meet in
May with several outstanding performances at the Duke Invitational this past weekend. Carolyn Meadows led the way for the Lady
‘Cats with a fine 3000m effort of 10:56, slicing sixteen seconds off of her personal best. Karen Marshall ran a
great 3000m of 10:47, which is just two seconds off her season-best time. Look for these two women to challenge
at the Conference meet. Heather Tarpley continued her domination of the 400m hurdles with a 67.1. Heather leads the

DIAMOND BUYERS QUIZ
customers the facts while maintaining our high standards of grading.

Why Is Diamond Cut So Important?
A properly cut stone is proportioned so that when a ray of light enters it, that light will be reflected
back through the crown or top of the diamond with maximum prismatic “fire.” A cut of proper proportions increases the
value and beauty of a diamond, yet less than 1% of all diamonds cut are cut to ideal proportions.

What About Clarity?
Clarity refers to the absence of inclusions. It may not always affect beauty, but it always affects value. Diamonds are
graded from D-Z alphabetically. The finest color is colorless. You can begin to see yellow in an L. Most fine
jewelers carry J-L.

Important Factors Affecting The Value Of A Diamond?
Cutting, Color, Clarity, and Carat Weight determine a diamond's value. At Donald Haack Diamonds, you will see distinct differences in
clarity.Diamond color differences, because in our lab using deceptive pricing. Since 1954, Donald Abel and the team at Haack Diamonds
have built an international reputation by making it a point to show our certified Master Stones in our laboratory, unmounted,
and comparing them under magnification using a microscope. To learn more, call 372-7720.

Donald, why is carat weight one of the important factors? Improper cutting may add weight to the stone and may
also reduce the stone’s brilliance. You should be aware that there is a “price break” between a 0.99ct diamond and
a 1.0ct diamond, even though there are only 2 points difference and both are ranked as “1 carat diamonds.” On
top of this, the cut may make the 0.99ct appear larger than the 1.0ct. But all factors equal, larger diamonds
have greater value.

Haack Diamonds & Fine Gems, Ltd.
Mezzanine, One First Union Center, Charlotte
704/372-7720 or 800/222-1436

Up for Season Finale Conference in this event, Phuong Nyugen led the way in the Distance Medley Relay with a
great 3:57 1200m split. The squad of Nyugen, Maria Whitehead, Tarpley, and Marshall looked strong throughout the race. The 800m
corps of Nyugen (2:33), Jean DeMoss (2:36), Laura Jordan (2:36), and Jenn Brown (2:38) have shown great improvement since their
injuries. Coach Beth Manson is confident about the upcoming Conference meet and hopes to have everyone healthy by May. Both
teams travel to Columbia, SC for the Gamecock Invitational this coming weekend, and both seem poised for a strong finish.

"Life is Good" for Albie Varoski

Albie continued from page 14. It was a tough story for Albie. He suffered the first real slump of his
career earlier in the season. It seems that his attitude had shifted so much towards a team concept that he
had lost sight of his own game. He endured a losing streak which lasted over a month and left his
confidence frazzled. Since that time, Albie has won three matches in a row and has now positioned himself to be
a high seed at the conference tournament. He comments that this turnaround can be attributed to a new way of
thinking. “I’ve come to realize that the team needs me as much as I need the team.”

For whatever reason, it appears that Albie is back on track and can now concentrate on finishing off what he
feels could be a dream season. “Entering this year we had two primary goals: beat Virginia for our first victory
over an ACC team in seven years and win the Southern Conference tournament.” So far, one goal has been achieved.
Davidson defeated UVA 5-2 earlier in the season, where despite losing both of his matches, Albie was by far the
happiest player on the team. There is still a long way to go before Davidson claims a conference title, and
it will take a lot more than Albie playing his heart out. But if all goes according to his plan,
you can probably expect to hear that light-hearted, fun-loving guy saying his favorite phrase, “Life is good!”

ATTENTION: MOVE YOUR CAR!

The tennis parking lot has to be cleared of cars by noon (12:00 p.m.) on Friday, April 16 for the
Southern Conference Tournament. Thanks.
