16 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

In rain, Davidson football falls to Emory and Henry 27-0

Wildcats struggle against Sports Illustrated's sixth-ranked Division III team

By Robert Lloyd-Still

Davidson knew this was going to be tough. Sports Illustrated ranked Emory & Henry in their top ten of Division III teams. On a rainy day with awful conditions, the Wasps prevailed over the Cats 27-0. Wasp Charlie Cole put the game out of reach with a 92-yard run, pushing his total for the day to 119 yards.

While Emory & Henry was able to capitalize on their scoring chances, the same could not be said about Davidson. The Wildcats had the ball at Emory & Henry’s 10 in the first half and at the 5 and 4 in the second with nothing to show. During the second half, the Cats even faked a field goal. Del “Money” Turner was open in the endzone but the pass fell incomplete.

This was the seventeenth straight regular season victory for the Wasps. They made it to the Division I-AA playoffs a year ago. Davidson committed five turnovers in the first half to negate all scoring opportunities. After the first quarter, Emory & Henry led 13-0. In the first half, the Wasps had the ball seven times inside the Cats' thirty-yard line. They only managed three touchdowns out of those. Freshman Vershan Sherrill stopped one of those drives with an interception at the goal line.

With a 20-0 deficit at halftime, the Wildcats' chances appeared desolate. However, Davidson’s Jason Branch intercepted an errant pass soon after the break. With Kevin Holzworth at quarterback and Richard Howell playing the tail, Davidson marched to the five-yard line. But the Wildcats failed to score.

With only one yard, Davidson’s rushing attack was dismal. On a rainy day, the Cats went airborne, collecting 178 yards. The Wasps, on the other hand, worked the ball on the ground, totaling 230 rushing yards. Senior Alden Smith and Junior Chris Leak did not play in Saturday’s game. Leak has a dislocated finger, but he is expected back next week. Smith will not play again this season. Even with these absences, the Cats' defense played strongly.

Davidson knew that these first three games would be the hardest. They hope to improve on their 1-2 record in the coming weeks. On Saturday, they travel to Greensboro to face Guilford College.

High expectations pay off for women harriers at McAlpine Park

By Jean DeMoss

The women’s cross-country team competed against seven other teams at McAlpine Park on Saturday. United under the slogan “High Expectations Pay Off,” the harriers proved that it was a great day to be a Wildcat.

During the warm-up stretching, pre-race strides, and culminating on the starting line, an electric current sparked the women's team. They were ready and eager to run fast. With cool early morning temperatures and a dry course, weather conditions were close to perfect.

When the gun went off, nine Davidson runners sprinted out of box five. The first half mile of the race was a straight, flat path over grass; the course then curved into the woods. Sophomore sensation Phuong Nyugen crossed the first mile marker under six minutes and never looked back. She was followed by Davidson’s top five all under 6:20. Nearly halfway through the race, “the hill” loomed, challenging runners to tackle the long, winding uphill and the sudden downhill drop. After conquering the incline, the LadyWildcats emerged from the woods and ran around a lake. The two-mile marker greeted the runners as a reminder that there was just one more mile left. The third mile was as flat as the first, and the harriers buckled down for fast third-mile splits. Phuong Nyugen crossed the finish line first for the Wildcats in a dazzling 19:38, a personal best. Jean DeMoss (20:04), Erin Roach (20:07), Carolyn Meadows (20:11), and Katie McElvie (20:20) rounded out the top five. The rest of the team quickly followed: Marie Grisez (20:25), Stephanie Moses (20:30), Alicia Dandar (21:17), and Sallie Permar (23:20).

Bright and early Sunday morning, the Wildcats clobbered Louisville 4-0. Wide-awake and ready to win, Davidson took control of the game. Within five minutes of play, the Wildcats scored their first goal as junior Nancy Hilles deflected Nicole Ficeto’s initial shot into the cage. The Cats continued tough offensive pressure throughout the first half, but it wasn’t until the second half that the Cats really turned it on. Kjeldis scored the second goal, receiving a pass from Lang on a corner play. For the third goal, Short and Hilles had an effective two-on-one as Hilles passed the ball at the top of the circle and Short swept it into the corner of the cage. Freshman Rebecca MacLean got her first assist of the season when she crossed the ball to Laura Kjeldgaard who, wrestling with the Louisville goalie, tapped the ball to Hilles for the fourth goal. All in all, the Wildcats played an excellent game, demonstrating both finesse and confidence. Coach Betsy Pryor told the team, “I saw some of the best passing you've done all season.” This win was a good note to end on before the upcoming two-week break. Davidson plays Ohio University and Bucknell at home on October 9 and 10.

Classifieds
EARN $500-$1,000 WEEKLY stuffing envelopes. For details, rush $1.00 with SASE to: Group Five, 57 Greentree Dr., Suite 307, Dover, DE 19901.

The Record Exchange is now hiring for both full and part-time positions. Apply in person at 5401 S. Blvd., Tyvola Mall—No phone calls.

Earn $2,500 and Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips and you go FREE! Best trips and prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City! 1-800-678-6386.

The Davidsonian
Your source for sports

Calendar
SPORTS THIS WEEK
Football
SAT Oct 2 at Guilford

Men’s Soccer
WED Sep 29 at North Carolina
FRI Oct 1 at Yale

Women’s Soccer
TUE Sep 28 RADFORD
FRI Oct 1 at Georgia Southern
SAT Oct 2 LIBERTY

Volleyball
FRI Oct 1 WEST CAROLINA
VA. COMMONWEALTH
SAT Oct 2 UNC WILMINGTON
*Home games in capitals

Tell your parents you need to expand your horizons by sensitizing yourself to the myths, mores, and history of a culture foreign to your own. (By the time they figure out what's up, you'll already be there.) Next semester, get out of town with Beaver College. You can intern in London, ponder Peace Studies in Austria, cycle to class in Oxford, or sun yourself in Mexico (while studying Spanish, of course). You can even linger at a cafe in Vienna or tour a Greek isle. We also have a wide variety of integrated university programs in the U.K. and Ireland. For over 30 years, Beaver has been sending students abroad for the experience of their life. Now it's time for yours. Call us today for more information. Study Abroad with Beaver College. 1.800.755.5007.