THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993

Popular school programs attract students and prospectives

By Rachel Dunifon

By graduation, about 50% of each Davidson class has studied abroad for a year, semester, or summer. Options for study
abroad programs are endless, and Davidson itself offers a wide range of programs in nearly every area, allowing students to
receive Davidson credit while in a foreign country. Davidson’s well-known study abroad programs are what attract many students to come
here.

Davidson sponsors year-round programs in Germany and France. French students, along with a Davidson professor, study in Montpellier through the
Paul Valery University of Montpellier. Students choose from a wide variety of classes, taught in French, including the history of
Europe, French literature, education, and political science. Upon arriving in Germany, Davidson students live with a German family for one
month, to get a feel for the culture and brush up on their German before classes begin. Students then begin
studying at the University of Würzburg, taking regular classes.

Davidson’s Spanish Department hopes to join its French and German counterparts next year by offering its own study abroad program.
Currently, Davidson students studying in Spain go through programs at other schools. According to Dr. Luis Pena, next year’s addition
of a new Spanish professor will change that. This professor will direct study abroad programs in Spain, offering students the
chance to study for a semester or for the full year. Pena says the department is considering schools in Madrid,
Valencia, and Salamanca, and is looking for universities there able to adapt to Davidson’s semester system. Spanish students also currently
have the option of studying in Mexico in a summer program led by Dr. Pena.

Not as well known is the year-long Davidson program of the American Collegiate Consortium for East-West Cultural and Academic Exchange.
Through this program, two students from the former Soviet Union study at Davidson for a year, while Davidson students, who
must be fluent in Russian, may study there. Ashley Cockrill, ’93 was the first Davidson student to spend a year
in the Former Soviet Union. Junior Charlie Pollster has just begun his year of study there.

Davidson’s semester-long programs include some unique offerings. The Seminar Abroad in Classical Humanities, sometimes called “Humes on wheels,” travels continuously
during its four months, visiting ancient sites throughout Greece, Crete, Turkey, Italy, and France. The program, offered every other year,
is led this spring by Dr. Dirk French, and students will receive three Classics credits, as well as a credit
for an independent study.

Davidson also sponsors a semester-long program of study in India, offered in alternate fall semesters. The next trip will depart
in the Fall of 1994, and will be led by Dr. Job Thomas of the History Department. Students are housed

See There on page 5

Running the gamut of social experiences

Students can design their own programs

By Rachel Dunifon & Sally Stone

Senior Jen Guise wanted the opportunity to immerse herself in a non-western culture when she studied abroad last semester. As
a result, she spent the semester in Nepal, becoming a part of this unique culture in terms of language, dress,
and custom. The Office of Experiential Programs referred Guise to the School for International Training, based in Brattleboro, Vermont. They
sponsor “experiential learning programs,” with the goal of allowing students to live in a culture as much as possible, and
offering programs world-wide.

Guise spent her semester in Nepal with eighteen other students from throughout the United States. The first month was spent
in a village, where a 3:1 student/teacher ratio facilitated their intensive Nepali language studies. The next month was spent in
Kathmandu, with students living with local families. They attended a lecture series and continued their language studies. Guise describes the
learning as very “hands-on.” For example, her group traveled to a Buddhist monastery and learned how to meditate in order
to learn about this aspect of Nepali culture.

The program’s third month was an independent study project, in which Guise traveled alone to a Gurung village to study
the unique type of music found there. She then went hiking for ten days, reaching an elevation of 17,700 ft.,
all the time wearing the customary native skirt, called a loongy. According to Guise, her cultural immersion showed her how
much Westerners traveling abroad stand out in other countries. She suffered more culture shock returning home to the United States
than she did when she arrived in Nepal, and is still gettingUsed to being back, Heather Hill’s spring semester abroad
created culture shocks. She traveled around the world on the University of Pittsburgh’s Semester-At-Sea program. For four months, Heather lived
with 403 students on a small cruise ship. Sailing from the Bahamas, the ship stopped in Venezuela, Brazil, South Africa,
Kenya, India, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Japan before returning to Seattle. Describing it as “the best thing I’ll ever
do in my whole life,” Heather especially appreciated the trip’s multicultural immersion. While docked in China, Heather traveled to Beijing
where she stayed at the university and met other Chinese students, some of whom she keeps in contact with. The
school, or ship, would organize excursions like the one to Beijing for the students. This convenient and useful service allowed
students to be spontaneous in their travel plans, Heather remarked. A safari in Kenya was another trip of which she
took full advantage. Such varied experiences were main assets of Semester-At-Sea. Heather described the trip as a field study of
cultures and learned about the United States and herself along the way.

During the fall semester, Heather was truly performing field studies. She attended the School for Field Studies semester in the
South Turks and Caicos Islands. There she took four biology classes.

See Unique on page 5

Photo courtesy of Margaret Murphy

Last year, Margaret Murphy '94 studied journalism and worked for British Television in London with a Boston University program. The
group took advantage of travel opportunities.

Students also choose to travel with other schools. Other schools' programs provide opportunities not found at Davidson.

By Sally Stone

Experiencing a world beyond Davidson, exploring options not available here are two primary reasons many Davidson students choose to spend
summers, semesters, or years elsewhere. For many, this exploration means selecting a “non-Davidson” abroad program more suitable to their interests.
According to the Study Abroad office coordinator, Carolyn Ortmayer, students interested in unique abroad programs learn from friends about options
or simply examine the books and files in the study abroad office. This year nine students are “on-leave” for the
year and thirty-nine are gone this semester. Defined as “on-leave,” students attending non-Davidson programs receive several pass/fail credits, depending upon
the academic intensity.

Great Britain and Spain are the two more popular sites students historically choose. Margaret Murphy, one of the DCTV coordinators,
wanted more television experience and also knew she wanted to study abroad in the spring of her junior year. Learning
about Boston University’s London internship program from several upperclassmen, Margaret began her pursuit. Combining an academic course load with working,
the London school offered Margaret the opportunity to attend journalism classes unavailable at Davidson and work at British Television. The
courses were taught by U.S. professors for which she received Pass/Fail credit from Davidson. The Boston semester provided “a good
balance between academics and working,” Margaret said. Spending three and one-half months in London, Margaret’s experience gave her “the best
of both worlds” and was a great break from Davidson.

Lisa Moore’s semester away from Davidson did not expand across the ocean, but it too marked an experience unparalleled at
Davidson. Lisa attended Howard University in Washington, D.C. in the spring as a member of the Davidson-Howard Exchange. In addition
to her courses, Lisa worked for the Children’s Defense Fund. Besides living in an urban atmosphere, Lisa chose the Howard
program for its diverse classes and the internship opportunities in Washington. A senior political science major, Lisa attended unique courses
such as “Race and Public Policy,” “Simulation of International Organization,” and “Blacks in the Arts” unavailable at Davidson. Also an
accomplished cellist, she played with Howard’s string ensemble and took cello lessons. Her Washington experience allowed Lisa a better understanding
of why students attend black colleges. As she learned, every day, in every class African or African-American issues are raised
or topics discussed pertaining to minority issues. Furthermore, Howard offered an economically diverse population.

Mary Hartman wanted a semester abroad. As an art history major, Davidson offers several programs applicable to her field, but
only in the spring. So Mary investigated outside art history programs and found CYA, College Year in Athens. Living in
an apartment with other CYA students, in a “safe” neighborhood of Athens enriched Mary’s experience. She met many native residents
and became comfortable with the city. Most importantly, Athens was a perfect location for studying classical art and architecture. Mary
greatly appreciated the unique attributes of her program and how they pertained to her interests. Selecting one’s own abroad program
allows students to focus on their interests and receive a “hands-on” education.
