4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993

Davidson Student Selected as Possible Bone Marrow Donor
By Alice Felmlee

Thanks to the miracles of modern medicine and technology, many diseases are now curable. While researchers and doctors hold many
keys to life, they cannot do it all alone. Organ and bone marrow donors too may give the gift of
life. If all goes well between now and April, sophomore Megan Snyder will be doing just that.

More than one year after having her bone marrow typed at Davidson’s Annual Bone Marrow Drive, Snyder has been selected
as a donor. In order to reach this stage of the process, she underwent two additional blood tests, one last
spring and a second in November. The second test, which involved giving nine small tubes of blood, had to be
performed twice because of complications. The prospective recipient of Snyder’s bone marrow underwent the same test on the same day.
The doctors believe he might have been ill on this day, thus causing complications.

Now that everything suggests Snyder is a perfect match for the recipient, she anticipates the day on which she will
donate her bone marrow. How does she feel about the whole procedure? “Of course it’s a little scary, but mainly
it’s very emotional and exciting.” After facing her own initial reservations and dealing with her parents' natural concern for possible
health risks, Snyder alone made the final decision.

The operation, which is scheduled for the week of April first at Wake Forest's Bowman Gray Hospital, involves a team
of two doctors using syringes to extract bone marrow from her pelvic bone. The only real risk comes with the
use of anesthesia—and Snyder was quick to point out that this is now a common practice. “Everyone gets anesthesia when
having their wisdom teeth out, so that doesn’t really bother me.” Pain for the donor is also limited to “slight
discomfort.”

Although Snyder, a member of the field hockey team, is the bone marrow donor, she knows little about the recipient
and he knows little about her. “All I know is that he is a forty-four-year-old man with chronic leukemia. I
don’t even know where he lives.” Amidst all of this secrecy, one thing, however, is for sure. Within twelve hours
of Snyder’s surgery, a forty-four-year-old man will be entering another operating room in a fight for his life. Not for
another year will Snyder be given the chance to meet the recipient, and that depends upon his willingness to do
so. Until then, she plans to check on his progress by corresponding through a third party.

Although Snyder’s perspective on life hasn’t changed since becoming a donor, she has become more aware. “It’s hard for me
to imagine what he is going through as I live my daily life.” Although there is only a 50-50 chance
for the operation’s success, the whole thing is very inspiring. This story should prove to be inspiring for the Davidson
College family as well. Since bone marrow testing began in 1987, there have been only 2000 matches of unrelated people.
Make that 2001. Thanks to Davidson, that number includes Megan Snyder, and she admitted, “a lot of credit goes to
the people who organized the Bone Marrow Drive—they made it easy for this to be possible.” And finally, she said,
“I encourage everyone to sign up for the bone marrow drive next year.”

Norwood Flies Relief to U.S. Troops Stationed in Somalia
By Shaye Benton

Turmoil of Somalia: it permeates the media, filters into class discussions, and proves itself in pictures of starving children. Yet
what’s happening halfway across the world still seems so distant...

Tom Norwood, Davidson Assistant Director of Corporate and Foundation Relations, experienced Somalia first-hand when he flew 30 tons of food
and equipment to the Mogadishu Somalian Airport on a 15 1/2 hour non-stop flight during Christmas break. The “Pony Express”
system in which Norwood participated involved the transport of badly needed cargo to U.S. troops from American Air Bases in
California and Saudi Arabia. The American troops, sheltered in airplane hangars with little water, food, and utilities, greatly appreciated the
supplies and even took advantage of the plane’s bathrooms and air conditioning. A major in theU.S. Air Force Reserve, Norwood
has been flying for over 20 years and spends 2-3 weekends per month staying current with the proficiency requirements for
pilots. By staying current, Norwood explained that Reserve pilots can “step right in and go” whenever and wherever they are
needed. Norwood, a KC-10 Aircraft Commander, was needed December 28 - January 5 when he flew from the Seymour-Johnson base
to the West Coast for assignment to a cargo plane. He then flew a KC-10, an aircraft used as a
tanker in the Persian Gulf War, following a course from California to Massachusetts, on to Spain, over the Mediterranean, between
Italy and Sicily, through the south of Greece to Egypt, and finally to Saudi Arabia where the crew had a
short layover before arriving at Mogadishu. Since the flight was non-stop, the plane had to be refueled twice while in
mid-air. Norwood explained that in order to refuel while in flight, the plane must decrease its speed to meet the
fueling craft at a certain location. The two planes then fly surprisingly close, one behind the other, until the refueling
is completed. Once having arrived, the relief crew delivered the 30-ton cargo. It consisted of necessary food and equipment but
also of beloved Doritos, pizza, Cokes, and other junk food and was given directly to the troops instead of to
relief agencies. While in Somalia, Norwood decided to stay at the airport instead of exploring the area because of reported
shooting in the streets the day before. The return trip took only 14 1/2 hours because of a tailwind to
the plane’s advantage. One of the biggest challenges, Norwood said, was to stay oriented amidst the enormous time changes. Passing
through two “days” and two “nights” in 15 1/2 hours could become somewhat confusing, especially while concentrating so intensely for
twice the hours in a normal working day. As for the condition of the area, Norwood remarked that it made
“Saudi Arabia look like a Hilton.” The day before Norwood arrived, President Bush had flown into Somalia and visited the
troops to meet and talk with them. Norwood said the “morale of the troops was pretty upbeat; they were up
because they knew the world was paying some attention to them.” As Norwood commented, it is assuring to know that
the U.S. has the capability to sustain operations like this one thousands of miles away in Somalia. “An experience like
this,” he said, “makes you grateful for life in America.”

Davidson Tibet Continued from page 2 Tibetan religion, politics, and other aspects of their unique Himalayan culture. They will also
perform the “vocal and instrumental music,” that, according to Stasack, “they incorporate in ritual practice as a means of effecting
spiritual alignment and transcendence.” The monks’ visit is possible due to the support of the Dean Rusk Program and the
Music Department. The Tibetan monks are in town as part of the celebration of Tibetan Cultural Awareness Month in Charlotte.
In proclaiming February as Tibetan Cultural Awareness Month, Mayor Vinroot cited the awarding of the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize to
His Holiness the Fourteenth Dalai Lama and the fact that 1992 was the International Year of Tibet. All of this
recognition stems from the thirty-three years that Tibet has been occupied and ruled by Communist China. Since 1959, the Tibetan
government and many of its citizens have been in exile throughout the world, mostly in India and Nepal. Although the
occupation is horrible, comparable to the Holocaust in its genocidal efforts, it has brought the rich, unique, and very mysterious
culture of Tibet to the outside world. Do not miss this opportunity to learn about one of the most beautiful
and peaceful societies in the cosmos.

THE Serving the best in traditional Southern Foods Tues.-Fri. Lunch: 11-2; Dinner: 5-9 Saturday Dinner: 5-9 Wednesday-College Night Special on
Selected Appetizers (1/2-Price) Discount on Beer Occasional ENTERTAINMENT Weekend Specials include grilled swordfish and broiled salmon Entrees include fresh vegetables
To Go Orders — Daily Lunch Specials 761 N. Main St. Mooresville, NC 704/663-7322

Give Someone You Love A Book For Valentine’s Day Mention this ad and receive a 15% discount on any book
with a red cover! (Good Through Feb. 14) 126 South Main Street 892-6841
