THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993

Kirkland, Randolph Represent Davidson at 1993 NCSL

By Alice Felmlee

The Davidson delegation to the North Carolina Student Legislature (NCSL) recently attended the 56th Annual Legislative Session at the Old
State Capital Building in Raleigh.

The students debated bills written by fellow college students from all over the state, simulated roles of Representatives, Senators, Speaker
of the House, Bill Committee Chairs and others. In addition, they met with members of our state legislature to discuss
issues such as the proposed tuition increase throughout the UNC system.

Annual Session (this year held March 24-28) is the most important event of the Student Legislature; however, the organization is
active throughout the year, providing all college students in North Carolina with the opportunity to mimic government in action, as
well as influence policy directions in the state.

A constitutional amendment bill by Anni Kirkland and Mary Randolph dealing with religious discrimination was awarded Best Bill introduced in
the House of Representatives during the recent session. Unfortunately and despite much lobbying, the bill became stuck in a Senate
committee and was never signed.

The Governor of the NCSL, Becca Norton of UNC-Chapel Hill, signed bills legalizing gay marriages, permitting repeat sex offenders to
choose chemical castration in return for reduced jail time, and establishing an education trust fund to be used by school
districts interested in moving to a year-round school system.

Bills restricting abortion, prohibiting discrimination in adoption proceedings, and imposing term limits on state legislators failed on the floor and
were never sent to the Governor. Representing Davidson were Anni Kirkland as Speaker Pro Tempore of the House, Mary Randolph
in the Senate, and Frank Gibbes in the House. Debate, although guided by parliamentary procedure as is used in Congress
and State Legislatures, was always heated, usually well-researched and articulate, and never dull.

The state-level organization wishes to enlarge its membership to include as many North Carolina undergrads as possible in the delegations
from each school. The NCSL is a route for young political leaders to find a voice, learn, and influence decision
making.

Through participation in NCSL, Davidson students may also attend the United States Collegiate Congress (USCC) in July. USCC is a
similar student-run model legislature comprised of members from state student legislatures all over the country.

Davidson students interested in either the NCSL or USCC should speak with sophomore Anni Kirkland, the Davidson Delegation Chairperson.

Take Back the Night Promotes Rape Awareness

March continued from page 1

Three Davidson women described their personal circumstances of sexual assault. One speaker who wishes only to be identified here as
Jenn also spoke at the first Take Back the Night at Davidson because she realizes the significance both to her
peers and herself. At age ten, she was raped by a camp counselor but managed to put the incident out
of her mind until she was seventeen. Since facing the truth, Jenn has gained strength through sharing her story in
order to increase awareness and sensitivity about the issue.

The second speaker, sophomore Mary Randolph, recounted multiple accounts of sexual assault including an incident with a teacher in kindergarten
as well as situations of acquaintance rape in high school.

Another sophomore described an encounter during her senior year of high school at a roommate’s party. She met a college
man who invited her to take a walk outside. He eventually raped her on the ground by the side of
the road. She and Randolph both emphasized the involvement of alcohol in their situations but that alcohol could by no
means be held solely accountable.

Following a prayer led by Assistant Chaplain, Brenda Tapia, half of the audience moved outside the Union for a march
around campus. The procession of about 75 people walked through dark areas holding candles and chanting a variety of chants
including, “Yes means yes/ No means no/ Whatever we wear/ Wherever we go” and, “Take Back the Night/ The time
is near/ We will not be/ controlled by fear.”

Opinion Poll
100 students surveyed:

Do you support the idea of building a new college union?

Yes - 80%

CELEBRATE EASTER...

Main Street Books

with Easter Books, Cards Furry Bunnies & More

126 S. Main St. 892-6841

Recycle this Davidsonian

Your socially aware paper.

ATTENTION:

Our committee has been appointed by the President and Dean of Students to hear "the petition for membership and participation
on Patterson Court” of the members and pledges of SAE. We have been asked to complete our deliberations by May.

We wish to learn what we can concerning the activities and members and pledges of SAE during the past twelve
months so that we can give appropriate consideration to the petition. We therefore earnestly invite any member of the greater
Davidson community who has information pertinent to the committee's charge to communicate with the administration immediately. This may be initiated
by contacting any of the following committee members by Friday, April 9.

Information may be submitted in writing, or persons may meet with committee members. If appropriate, comments can be held in
confidence.

Verna Case 892-2330
Bruce Jackson 892-3316, -6649
Erin Lee 892-6625
Leigh Hamrick 892-6644
Anthony Foxx 892-2249
Peter Hess 892-2249

WE’LL MAKE YOUR SPECIAL OCCASIONS REALLY SPECIAL

Date Functions, Graduation Parties Birthdays, Wedding Parties

Give Us A Call And We'll Reserve A Place For Your Party Of 2, 22, or 122

896-0085

Shops On The Green, I-77, Exit 28 W, Cornelius Adjacent to Comfort Inn
