_ OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993

Better Lighting Is Essential for Campus Safety
By Chris Hood

Looking around the 900 Room during “Take Back the Night” last Tuesday, I noticed that far more women than men were in attendance. This was no great surprise, but it leads to another point I find interesting and, perhaps, disheartening. As the crowd began somberly exiting the 900 Room, I walked over to the table where the SGA Security Committee’s Petition for Better Campus Lighting was being presented by Jonathan Orr. Obviously, with the abundance of women present Tuesday, the vast majority of the signatures were women’s. I began to wonder how responsive Davidson men would be if offered a similar opportunity to sign the petition. That evening, I presented the sheet to a number of men, many of whom eagerly signed. Still, a significant number chose not to sign the document, claiming that lighting was adequate or that the College would do better to spend its money elsewhere.

Personally, I generally feel safe most anywhere I walk on campus, regardless of the time of day. My experience shows that far more men than women share this sentiment. Since I began my Davidson career, I have heard an increasing number of stories about students being harassed and assaulted on campus, often in dimly-lit areas. How many of these stories are fact and how many are fiction I do not know, but I am beginning to wonder whether my feeling of security is legitimate or a sign of ignorance. I fear the latter is becoming more valid.

Better campus lighting would hardly terminate all assaults and fears, but I can’t help but think it would lessen the chances of such events. After a long period of student lobbying, more lights have been erected, particularly between Belk and Chambers. But walk from the library to the Union, and you’d better watch your step; you may not notice the steps. I know many students who will not walk down the hill alone at night. Most everyone seems to have suggestions on strategic locations where lighting and safety are probably proportionally linked. While we often think of women as being the victims of assaults, men are certainly not immune. Though many men are aware of this fact, too many are not. Better lighting and security are not just women’s issues; they are campus issues.

I cannot claim that more lighting will stop such crimes from occurring, but it seems that greater visibility will be a deterrent in a number of cases. Far too often, we act retroactively; it isn’t until after something terrible has occurred that we take steps to prevent it from happening again. Insufficient lighting has contributed to various assaults on campus in the past; this must be a concern of men as well as women. If you haven’t had the opportunity to sign a petition or stand up in favor of more and better lighting, please look for such an occasion. In the meantime, watch your back.

Seay Rations... A Liberal At Last
By Nathan Seay

I’m sure that the foremost question on everyone’s mind last week was: “Where is Nathan’s article?” I apologize for the incredible turmoil I subjected most of this campus to. Without your weekly dose of yours truly, I’m sure that many of you failed tests, blew off papers, and maybe a few of you flew into a bloodthirsty rage, bludgeoning your roommate with your Norton Anthology. (Maybe. I’m exaggerating a bit. I think maybe two people asked me about it.)

(The next few paragraphs have a “devil’s advocate” character in it, so don’t let that throw you. You're all gifted students. You can handle it.)

But I’m extremely excited about my being censored. “Why are you so proud that you wrote something so terrible that it can’t be put in the paper?” Well, I’ll tell you. I have joined the ranks of Perry Farrell and Robert Mapplethorpe. “Are you coming out of the closet?” No, silly. I’m trying to tell you that I’m now an oppressed artist. “You call that crap you write art?” Yes, I do. This is how I express myself; so there.

It is every liberal’s dream to be put down, to be censored. At last I’m officially a left winger. “And you're really happy about that?” Shut up. “You can’t make me. You’re a pacifist.” Yeah, well... “At least satisfy my curiosity. What on earth could you have written about that was worse than underage drinking, picking your nose, farting, or having sex with dead people? All that stuff got by the censors.” Well, I can’t exactly tell you. I’ll give you some hints. You do it when you’re alone. “Sleep?” No, but it makes you sleepy. “Jogging?” No. Jerry Seinfeld devoted an episode of his show to it. “Oh.So Muy PoP Puy HERE, ARE Se se FUL of DEPRESSED, 2¢~ Self = este. Ty ele ere ere mc. YuR THe WORRY UME WU SHORT, SEURE ip eal ae mesoF GUESE We WERE WCE pact Ewis, WAT'D you THK ( HEWT 4. GOD oR Something 7 INE GoT NY Mage To vPH@D! | Cult SHEA! te That. What were you thinking? Don’t you have any pride?” Not according to some of the stories I’ve heard. It just happens that I watched JFK the other day, and I started putting two and two together. I listened very closely to Donald Sutherland and started asking myself just who benefitted from the omission of my article. I was determined to get to the bottom of what was obviously a conspiracy. The first group of people who wouldn’t want this article to come out would be females. They wouldn’t want me to blow open this taboo subject. I backed it up with facts and figures. The women were scared. They didn’t want me to blow their cover. Fine, girls. Just remember next time I’m playing I Never with any of you, I know at least three-fourths of you are lying. The Catholic church was another part of the conspiracy. They didn’t want me advertising the benefits of a venial sin, especially since I’m one of their flock. Maybe it’s because I’m a white male. Perhaps the newspaper staff thought that the WASCs (sorry, I’m a Catholic) get too much coverage in this paper. Or maybe it’s just because I’m a bleeding heart liberal and the paper is run by a bunch of guys who actually think that Ronald Reagan was a good President. If some of you want to read the article anyway, please ask me, and I’ll give you a copy. It’s not that graphic, I swear. The “m” word isn’t even mentioned once. Don’t be shy. I’d be incredibly flattered if some total stranger walked up to me and said, “Hey, aren’t you the guy...” (If I look scared at this point, don’t worry. I’m probably just frightened that you’re going to tell me something about last Friday. Just continue with your question.) I'll be more than happy to help you.

Reduced Teaching Load Improves Academic Life

Berkey continued from page 5

...something that can only come about through diligent reading and research. By extension, the expansion of our intellectual horizons depends upon the research and writing of women and men such as those on the faculty at Davidson, as well as their peers at other institutions of higher education. More importantly, teaching at the post-secondary level involves more than merely transmitting information, however current and up-to-date. It involves demonstrating to students what it means to “do” history, or physics, or economics. It involves showing students how and why one explores a particular question or issue within the confines of a particular discipline, how and why one can hope to achieve, through hard work, some better understanding of the world. It is for these reasons that being involved in a disciplined program of reading and research, what I have heard termed an "active life of the mind,” can be essential to discharging one's teaching duties at an institution like Davidson. To put it succinctly, to be a professor, one must have something to profess. Indeed, Davidson's long-standing "Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures" recognizes this imperative. This is not to say that research alone produces a good teacher. Nor is it to say that Davidson should expect its professors to produce X number of books and Y number of articles every few years. Mr. Windham betrays an unfamiliarity with what most academic publishing involves when he glibly labels it “worthless,” but the quality of one’s “life of the mind” need not, and in many cases should not be measured by the number of words committed to print. The quality of that intellectual life, for the encouragement of which an institution such as Davidson exists, does, however, require considerable blocks of time. Therein lies a compelling justification for a five-course teaching load. There is another more practical matter which Mr. Windham, and those who share his opinions, would do well to bear in mind. The value of their degrees from Davidson College will depend upon the reputation of the College. That reputation, in turn, depends almost entirely on the professional standing of those who teach here. Like it or not, in the real world, the professional standing of this or any other faculty rests squarely on the extent and quality of its program of research. That is why a five-course teaching load is by no means slack, by the standards of those institutions to which Davidson likes to compare itself. To take one popular yardstick: many of those institutions ranked among the top 25 “national liberal arts colleges” by U.S. News and World Report require their faculty to teach only four courses per year, not five. These schools are recognized as excellent, not because their faculty members teach fewer courses, but because teaching fewer courses allows them the time to develop their own excellence, and to encourage it in their students. If some feel strongly that the measure of a college’s excellence is to be found in the number of courses individual professors teach, there are plenty of institutions which set a teaching load of seven, or even eight courses per year. Davidson, however, has chosen a different path to quality.

Sincerely,
Jonathan Berkey