THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

Unbelievable: some thoughts on 1993 Wildcat Hoops
By James F. Jackson, III

Here’s to all the fans that went to the Wake game last week. In that game, improvement was evident in
our team—they played with discipline and, more importantly, heart. The sophomores really stepped up, especially Chris Alpert and Brandon Williams.
Our guys played a tremendous defensive game, especially Brandon, who guarded a conspicuously taller and heavier player. No one deserves
more credit, though, than Coach Bob McKillop. The Cats executed and shot tremendously against Wake; the credit for the renewed
discipline and aggressiveness should go greatly to the coach.

The loss against Wake is by no means a demoralizing one. It shows our capabilities and allows us to release
some tension so we can compete with and beat other good teams, like UNCC. I think it was also important
that McKillop and the Cats beat UNCC with Lefty Dreisell present. Coach McKillop has constantly proven himself as a coach
and is due a lot more credit than he gets. The fourth row crew is behind you all the way,
Coach.

Much of the improvement can be attributed to the way the sophomores have stepped up. Chris Alpert has always been
a leader, but Jeff Anderson, Mark McGuire, and George Spain have also improved. And, after the UNCC game, hats off
to Quinn “Hair World” Harwood. He was clutch when Davidson needed it, including two key second-half three-pointers in the face
of UNCC defenders. In the last three games, he has also lunged for loose balls. We love that heart on
the part of Quinn and the rest of the sophomores.

The go-to guy is still Janko Narat. The guy is quiet, reserved, and unemotional, but he gives all he has
every time he steps on the court. He has already proven why.

Byassee berates Forty-Niner fans

Hoops continued from page 14

as most of ours. But it seemed like he at least had a hand on just about every rebound out
there. He was a presence. Oh yeah, he scored 19 points, too. He took it to the hole (left and
right-handed), hit the three, and handled the ball with confidence. The thing is, I don’t know that Harwood’s necessarily gonna
star for the Wildcats every night. Surely Narat and Zimmerman are gonna get their points, but it seems like the
rest of the scoring is going to be done by committee. One night it’ll be Alpert or Donnelly from the
outside, Jeff Anderson or Williams going to the hole, or Mark McGuire and George Spain in the paint. Most likely,
the points will come from a combination thereof. And that’s the way it should be.

And good gosh, do they hustle or what?! There seemed to be two or three white jerseys diving for every
single loose ball. If the Charlotte Hornets’ “hustle stats” scoreboard had been in Belk Arena Saturday night, it would have
attested to the Cats’ tenacity. They were scrappin’ and playin’ hard. That’ll win you some games. So will confidence. The
other night, the Wildcats lost on the road to Wake Forest in a pretty close game. Beforehand I asked McGuire
whether he thought they had a chance to win against ACC competition. “We will beat them,” he told me, almost
matter-of-factly. Well, they didn’t. But McGuire’s statement said something about this team. They realize that they can play, and they
expect to win games. They know that if they can only win the Southern Conference tournament, they can wind up
in the NCAA’s big dance. It can be done. This is clearly the best team Davidson has put on the
floor in some time. They’re fun to watch.They’ve got good athletes and good team leaders, and they’ve been coached to
play hard. Now Davidson, let’s make sure there are fewer empty seats at these close games. We gotta believe. He
was a pre-season All-Southern Conference pick. The heart and soul of the team is with Janko, and the other guys
know it. Personally, I find it embarrassing that our walk-ons, Chris Shields and Tim Caldwell, don’t have their names on
their jerseys. Those two guys put their butts on the line just as much as any other player and should
not be discriminated against because they are not on scholarship. Not only is it embarrassing to them, it’s embarrassing to
Davidson. Behind me at the Wake game were two Wake fans commenting on how cheap Davidson looked when Caldwell ran
onto the court with no name on his jersey. That’s just cheap. And, considering the fact that it can’t cost
more than ten bucks to get it done, it’s even worse. It’s high time our walk-ons get the credit they
deserve, especially when they play almost every game. Here’s to you Tim and Chris. Donations can be sent c/o Bob
Pascal in NBE 203.

I miss the frequent fan plan this year. For some of us, that was another reason to attend games. We
should do all we can to get students to basketball games: T-shirts thrown out by starters and the frequent fan
plan are an easy way to do that. I hope these two will be continued in the future. Until then,
though, it’s the job of every red-blooded Davidson student to get tickets for Sunday afternoon’s game versus Clemson in the
Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets go on sale Wednesday at 1:00 p.m. at the Baker ticket office. Let’s see Davidson students finally
give this team the credit they deserve.

UNCC
FG FT R PF TP MIN
B. Thompson 1-4 1-2 0 5 4 21
Jarvis Lang 8-11 4-5 7 2 20 28
Delano Johnson 5-18 1-1 0 1 11 34
Andre Davis 1-12 0-0 1 4 3 36
Rodney Odom 4-8 1-1 1 2 9 34

DAVIDSON
J. Zimmerman 0-3 2-2 1 0 2 19
Janko Narat 4-11 12-14 8 0 20 35
Chris Alpert 1-2 0-0 2 0 3 38
George Spain 3-6 0-1 1 3 6 20
B. Williams 2-7 3-3 1 4 8 23
Mark McGuire 1-2 0-0 2 3 2 11
Jeff Anderson 3-6 0-0 2 1 6 15
Quinn Harwood 5-7 7-8 11 3 19 28
Mark Donnelly 2-2 0-0 1 0 5 11

Buy a Macintosh now and you can organize your time, sort out your finances, or go completely ballistic. Macintosh LC
520 5/80, Macintosh LC 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus 14" Display, Apple Keyboard II and mouse. Apple PowerBook 145B 4/80,
internal AppleCD™ 300i CD-ROM Drive, Apple Keyboard II and mouse.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any select Macintosh® or PowerBook® computer, you'll also receive seven
software programs. It’s all included in one low price. And the software package alone has a combined SRP value of
$596. It was designed to give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize your time and
money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy an Apple® computer? It does more. It costs less. It’s
that simple.

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. Visit Computer Services Center. Contact Kim Kenyon at x2432.

The Apple logo, Macintosh, and PowerBook are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. AppleCD is a trademark of Apple Computer,
Inc. Suggested Retail Prices (SRP) of the products in The Campus Software Set for Macintosh as of October 1, 1993.
