OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

Should the Stars and Bars Fly on Davidson Campus?
By Alex Crumbley

As I walked down the hill from my music class in Cunningham, I noticed something hanging in a window in
Little, something which is not a rare sight in dorm rooms at Davidson or anywhere in the South. That something
was a Confederate battle flag, or, as many call it, the rebel flag. I thought immediately about the controversy surrounding
the Confederate flags which two students hung from their dorm windows at Harvard in 1991, quickly provoking a racial confrontation.
Their demonstration of the stars and bars provoked protest marches, sit-ins, forums, and newspaper editorials. The Harvard administration and most
of the student body condemned their display of the flag and urged the students to remove it, but the two
students refused, invoking the First Amendment.

Then I considered the flag which I beheld before me here at Davidson, and I wondered why no one seemed
to care. When I asked a friend this question, he responded matter-of-factly, “Because we’re in the South.” Period.

One reason for the acceptance of the Confederate flag at Davidson is geography. Unlike more liberal schools up North, Davidson
is in a part of the country where the Confederate flag is more than accepted. The Confederate flag flies over
the South Carolina state capitol in Columbia, and it has been part of the Georgia state flag since the 1950s.
Obviously, state governments in the South not only condone the display of the flag but consider it a part of
Southern pride, a symbol for all to behold and admire. Presently, the governor of Georgia, Zell Miller, is leading a
movement away from this viewpoint, introducing a bill into the Georgia assembly to change the state flag from its Confederate
visage to a design which resembles the white and red bars on the North Carolina flag. Although many people agree
with Zell and show it by such radical methods as burning the Georgia flag, his efforts will probably fail. The
legislature will most likely vote the bill to referendum, and the majority of Georgia voters want to leave the flag
the way it is.

The debate about the Georgia flag consists of two basic arguments. Those who want to change it say that it
offends African-Americans who see the Confederacy fought under this flag to keep their ancestors enslaved. Those who want to leave
it say that, one, the “War of Northern Aggression” was not fought over slavery, and two, the flag is a
symbol for Southern pride and heritage.

Pithy Irreverence... Plead Drunkenness
Editor's note: Due to popular demand and in response to charges that he's just a big fem who targets his
articles primarily at the female audience to create the image that he's “sensitive,” Sean wrote this article. It's for the
guys.

Another time, I killed an entire air conditioning unit with a non-running car’s door. (It’s a long story. Ask Amanda.)
And once, after drinking a whole bottle of the beverage Kentucky is famous for, I tried to take a female
friend’s shorts off over her head. But the next day, I could always say “Aw, dude, I’m sorry. I was
drunk.” (Except for that time with the A/C. That cost $125.)

So here’s the proposal: I think this excuse should be made viable for all sorts of offenses. A Universal Excuse,
if you will. (Hey, at least it’s better than that wimpy “no contest” or the “temporary insanity” crap.) Think of
it: John Hinkley comes up for parole, gets up before the judge and says, “Aw, dude, I’m sorry. I was
drunk.” Reprieve. Saddam Hussein addresses the United Nations. “Aw, dude, I’m sorry. I was drunk.” Sanctions are lifted.

Or maybe an example closer to home: You’ve missed half the lectures that semester, failed all the tests, and haven’t
handed in the final paper. What do you tell your professor? You got it: “Aw, dude, I’m sorry. I was
drunk.” You pass. (But be forewarned - the one situation where you should never, EVER use this excuse is after
you’ve been pulled over for speeding.)

So that’s the end of the article. I don’t mean to condone drinking or drunkenness, just to help out those
who find themselves in dire need of an excuse. But if I offend, “Aw, dude...” You know the rest.Pride, not
a symbol for racism. Of course, there are people who do consider the Confederate flag a symbol for racism and
like it for that reason. I hope that people who have the rebel flag in their rooms at Davidson do
not fall into this category. One simple truth is the primary cause for tension over the Confederate flag: two people
can look at the same object and see two completely different things. Two sides of the argument are justified. So
what do we do? In a system such as ours, the majority decides what to do. But that’s not necessarily
right. I have a Georgia flag hanging in my room. I put it up neither out of Southern pride nor
as a racial affront. I put it up because I am from Georgia. No one has ever told me that
it offended him, but if someone did, I would take it down and hope that Gov. Miller is successful this
spring in changing it. If no one has ever complained to the person in Little about her display of the
rebel flag, that’s fine. But if someone asks her to remove it, I would urge her to comply. In a
small, intellectual community like Davidson, it’s not a matter of pride or prejudice, political correctness or the first amendment. It’s
a matter of personal respect, understanding, and above all, courtesy.

Lazenby Responds to Ambroise Article
By Will Lazenby

To answer your question, Miss Ambroise, nobody. Nobody died and left me the judge. The opportunity of judgment does not
necessitate a death. It simply requires a set of values, an opinion, and a place to voice that opinion, such
as a newspaper. That’s why I’m going to begin this response by telling you that I am judging the ideas
in your article, not from a “high chair,” but as a peer and fellow student.

First, I don’t think too many Davidson students “worship the devil.” Do we sin? Sure. Do we drink? You bet—we’re
college students. Are we hypocrites? Sometimes. Do we wear pentagrams, sacrifice animals, and vandalize the church? Nope, not since I’ve
been here. C’mon, Marilyn. Devil worshipers? You need to rethink the “high chair” thing. Or is the air up there
too thin for clear thinking?

Second, the validity of your comparison of African-Americans to homosexuals is questionable. You say that homosexuals “don’t just wake up
and decide to be gay.” But some do. Yes, some people are involuntarily homosexual, but there are other people who
choose to be gay. As you pointed out, such is not the case with color. So to say that you
“empathize with homosexuals” because, as an African American, you “know what it is like to be discriminated against for something”
you “have no control over” is to make an irrelevant point.

Lastly, your article is teeming with hypocrisy. You criticize those supposedly “good Christians” for judging others. Isn’t that what you’re
doing? Aren’t you judging them? Christians are instructed to love everyone, but does that mean that Christians should find no
fault in anyone? How can you say that it’s alright for an atheist to speak out against homosexuality and not
a Christian? People can still love each other and disagree at the same time. A Christian can love a homosexual
and still find fault with homosexuality. You say that as “God’s children” it’s “vital that we get along.” Do you
think that calling people Satan worshipers promotes good relations? You come off as very high and mighty in this piece.
Come down a little so you don’t have to squint. You might see things a little better, and you might
realize that, according to your own reasoning, you have as little right to judge those “good Christians” as they do
to judge homosexuals.

The Green Has Left the Red and Black
By Nathan Seay

I’m what may be considered a lime green person. I like the idea of saving the world and all, but
my laziness gets in the way of my good intentions. Inwardly, I cringe when I throw potentially recyclable things away,
but not quite bad enough to walk down four flights of stairs and hunt all over campus in the rain
for a place to put my empty Snapple bottle. (Nostalgia time) Two years ago, there were recycle bins strewn all
over every dorm; buckets just begging for your recyclables. You had to be a paralyzed sloth (or a near comatose
partier) if you couldn’t throw all your empties in one of those pink bins. And if you were too lazy
to walk five steps down the hall, you could even steal one and put it in your room; there were
plenty of extras. Now, I don’t have any idea what to do with the pile of newspapers rapidly taking over
one corner of my room. Does anybody know where I can put this stuff? Somewhere close by, I hope. Is
there even a recycling committee anymore? I was informed that the reason for the removal of recycling bins from the
dorms was because of fire precautions. That makes sense. I read an article in Scientific American that said when aluminum
cans containing beer dregs and dip spit are rubbed together with soggy newspapers, spontaneous combustion occurs. I don’t think that
I’m alone in my limeness. You only must look at the trash cans in the bathrooms to understand the amount
of recyclable material that goes straight to the landfills from this campus. Recycling at Davidson would in-

See "Seay" on page 7
