THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

Suggestions for Davidson's Future

Spain Continued from page 7

Cornelius for lunch at 1:00. If that reality is offensive, I do not apologize. College students live in a separate,
phantasmal time zone. 11:00 a.m. on a Sunday morning may as well be the crack of dawn. And a DCPC
sermon entitled “You and Your Aging Parent” is wonderful and necessary for the more middle-aged members of the congregation, but
for college students, it’s no reason at all to get out of bed. Despite this, a lot of us are
really searching within ourselves for ways in which to deal with the questions of this life, questions that are philosophical,
emotional, and spiritual in nature. To address many of these issues, I would love to see an ecumenical vespers service
come into existence. Beginning at 5:30 or 6:00 on Sunday evenings, the service need not last more than half an
hour, and students could come dressed in sweatpants and ripped T-shirts if they so desired. Most importantly, students could come
into an environment prepared to ruminate on questions that are of the utmost importance to people ages 18 to 22,
questions like, what exactly do I believe? or where am I going from here? There’s a need.

On Davidson: Implicit in the ongoing 150 Million Capital Campaign is a plan to push Davidson into the national arena
of colleges and universities. I’m all for it, so long as it is done in a manner that serves to
magnify rather than erase all that is wonderful and unique about Davidson. I hope Davidson will:
1) never have more than 2,000 students.
2) never push professors to publish at all costs.
3) never endorse a politically correct police state of words.
4) never allow students or faculty elements to go unchecked when they (a) make racial or gender incidents out of
non-discriminatory occurrences or (b) claim racial or gender incidents are nothing when they clearly are (prudent, non-reactionary observers know the
difference).
5) never turn its back on its continuing commitment to embrace diversity in a manner that is positive for all
ethnic groups.
6) never try to measure up to schools with bigger names and smaller hearts.

In a nutshell: “People think they compliment us when they call us the ‘Princeton of the South.’ If you want
Princeton, you’ll have to go to New Jersey, dammit!” — Former Professor Charles E. Lloyd.

Not unlike a lot of seniors, I view my time at Davidson with a strange mixture of emotions. I refuse
to cheapen those sentiments with sentimentality. A final column in which I might recount 4 years of Davidson, as if
it were on behalf of my class, seems a lot more than presumptuous. That’s why I decided to end this
column the way it began, talking about the desperate needs of a school already in the 99th percentile.

On a final note, I want to recognize the work Walter Price, Sarah Gayle, Tom Koonce, and Tom Price have
done for the paper. Few non-senior, non-faculty readers understand how far the paper has come in two years. Mark Puckett,
whom few of you would have known, began the push to get the newspaper going again. Before that, the South’s
Foremost College Weekly was an atrocious quarterly that read like the weather page from USA TODAY. Walter Price has done
a great deal to improve both the look and the content of the paper, in 1990-91 as Associate Editor, in
1991-92 as Executive Editor, and in 1992-93 as Editor-in-Chief. No, the paper’s not always perfect, but a lot of the
time, it’s damn good. I say that despite my association with the paper, despite the fact that Walter is one
of my roommates and that Sarah, Tom, and Tom are good friends of mine, and despite the fact that people
continue to claim that the Davidsonian is an elitist rag run by the FOW’s (Friends of Walter, for those of
you in the know). To those few, I plead, as many people in these pages have, to come to the
Davidsonian meetings, get involved, and make the paper even better.

Rude Notes Continued from page 8

the Dungeon by VAXites.) I am not using hyperbole as a literary device here, either. It really is three feet
thick. Actually, it’s got some useful stuff on it. Next time you Check Chal, View Vax. (I like that, “View
Vax.”)

Then, I wonder, how many committees are there on this campus. I know the Union itself has at least fifteen;
the SGA forms a committee to go to the bathroom; and the administration forms a committee at the drop of
the proverbial hat. When in doubt, form a committee. (Walter Price, our distinguished, soon to be ex, editor-in-chief.)

Now here’s something that really shocked me. The brothers of Spee, I mean Sigma Phi Epsilon, did something wrong. To
quote one of the TV stations, “They tied him up and dropped him on his head.” Now, I’m not trying
to pick on them here, but I thought the KAs and the SAEs were the bad guys on campus. I
thought it was the Kappa Sigs and the Sig Eps who kept up the image that fraternities were created to
mold men’s souls, not their drinking.habits. Screw it, let’s throw ‘em all off campus. (That is hyperbole.) Raise your hand
if you’re tired of looking at junior girls. I mean, if you’re tired of looking at some junior girl or
guy’s pictures from their absolutely wonderful trip abroad that you should have gone on. I mean, it was the greatest
time of my life, I’d go back there as soon as possible. I mean Davidson has changed, and I know
it’s hard for you to understand this, but it’s weird coming back when everything has changed so much and there
are all these new freshmen and all. I mean, I’d go right back right now, if I could. Yeah, I’m
tired of hearing that, too. Plus, I have another question. Don’t you wish you were a pledge? Me neither. Why
doesn’t your laundry just get up and wash itself? (Actually, mine might.) I mean this is when I feel like
I need a maid, or at least a wife. I simply don’t have the patience to get up and carry
my laundry down to Watts and throw it into the machines. Hell, I’m too lazy to even buy detergent. (Sure,
I could just take it to the Laundry, but I want to do it myself, which means it doesn’t get
done.) Anyway, it’s been fun doing this for the last year and a half and I hope you’ve enjoyed reading
some of these articles. (God, this is emotional.) Thank Walter Price for doing a wonderful job as editor-in-chief, if you
get a chance. And thank Sarah Gayle for showing him how to do it, too. P.S. Have you noticed how
many swear words you can sneak into print now? You can bitch, get pissed off, screw off, bite me. Hell,
you can say just about anything. (Just one last little bit of cheap humor there. Actually, I wouldn’t call it
humor, maybe cheap obnoxiousness, but not humor.) See ya. (The wife thing was a joke.)

Ambroise Continued from page 7

Policemen were people before they became policemen. But what makes you think that if they were racist people before, that
they are not now? There is not much of a change. The only change is that now, they are racist
people with occupations. So, how could they have arrived at that verdict? In my opinion, very easily. America is a
racist society where, for the most part, unless you are a “white, Anglo-Saxon, Protestant male” you are not worth anything.
The Rodney King incident was not the first incident to prove that there is no justice for African-Americans; it was
just the first to receive that much attention. This may be news to the majority, but to minorities this is
a reality that occurs a little bit more than desired. Indeed, the majority will never know what it feels like
to walk into a store and have people follow you because they associate your color to something negative, like stealing.
Some will never know what it feels like to have a professor look at you like you don’t belong. Yes,
many won’t know what it feels like when you have to prove yourself, work twice as hard and come out
with much less. The sad truth is that wherever African-Americans go, they are always treated as guilty before proven innocent.
Shouldn’t it be the other way around?

Both groups helped extend Baker Sports Complex hours. We must continue our commitment to action. The student government agenda has
been greatly influenced by this term of office. The alcohol policy has changed our social lives significantly. I expect that
the policy will gain more acceptance with time and, to be sure, the March evaluation period. No campus group—administration, faculty,
Trustees, or students—stand to gain from a boring campus life. The bottom line, however, is that things will continue to
improve. I leave with the satisfaction that I have made strides toward bringing the student agenda to its rightful place
as a primary part of the college agenda. I leave you to build upon the Davidson experience. Tuesday, February 9,
1993, at 7:45 in Phi Hall, Alden Smith will be sworn into office, and I will have done my very
best to serve you. At that time, Alden will put the college community first. Keep it strong and peace.

Alex Continued from page 8

Write it on the wall of a restaurant, I do not know. But it does present a point of view
which I hope many of you take to heart. We shouldn’t worry so much about our grades and resumes as
long as we learn to think. Of course, there is no harm in preparing for a line of work by
majoring in subjects like biology or economics, but don’t do it unless you like it; you’ll just like it less
later. Besides, many people don’t find their talents until after college. My roommate’s father majored in aerospace engineering and is
now a t-shirt designer. So enjoy your years of freedom, open your minds, experiment, and don’t bog yourselves down too
early. And read the writing on the wall. Sometimes you find wisdom where you don’t expect it.
