OPINIONS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 8

Yasir Arafat, Yitzhak Rabin, and their facial hair
By Tony Tuntasit

In a concerted effort to conform to the Opinions editor’s request for “writers with sincere insights,” today I’ve decided to
discuss a very pertinent world issue: The Israeli and Palestinian Peace Accord. As I was watching the Israeli Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin and PLO Chairman Yasir Arafat shake hands over an agreement that temporarily settled disputed territory in Israel, I
couldn’t help but notice that Yasir was sporting a nice gruffy batch of stubble while Yitzhak looked as if he
was one of those world leaders that fell in the category of the perpetually non-fuzzy.

This seemed to be a problem for Rabin. He seemed a bit intimidated by this, and while shaking hands, could
only muster a meek smile to Arafat’s “I’ve got more facial hair than you, ‘peach-fuzz!’ HA! HA! HA! HA! HA!”
wide-toothed grin. Yasir was confident. Yasir was the man.

Abundant facial hair (on men) has long been a desired trait amongst men and women. The ancient Neanderthal culture often
measured a man’s stature in society by the length of his beard. The longer the beard, the older the man.
The elders usually had the long spindles of grey hairs while the younger guys had a puny foot-long stubble. And
the hairy guys usually got the women:

NEANDERTHAL MAN: Woman! Here! Come me to cave!! Do the pterodactyl!!!
BETTY: Oh Billy, you know we’re only friends.
NEANDERTHAL MAN: (Burps) You do it with Spencer. What difference me and he?
BETTY: Well, you know, Spencer, he’s just hairier, you know? He’s got hair on his face, ears, bellybutton, nose and
even on the bottom of his feet! Now that’s sexy. And besides, I don’t want to jeopardize our relationship.
NEANDERTHAL MAN: (Scratches) Uh, OK.

Eventually, excessive facial hair became an evolutionary no-no and with Yasir Gillette’s ingenuity, man had his first razor: two very
sharp rocks. After several severe bouts of razor burn, chaffing, and epidemic shortages of Old Spice, technology soon improved, and
finally men could shave and trim their facial hair in styles recognizable today, like the goatee, the beard, the plain
moustache, the Amish look (see Witness) and, of course, the Don Johnson cool guy five o’clock shadow.

I suppose that facial hair makes a guy look older. People tell me that I should grow a goatee so
that I don’t look so much like a kid. Unfortunately, my facial hair refuses to comply. It does give me
enough hair so that I look unwashed, “Hey Tony, you got a bit of dirt under your chin. Hee! Hee!”
but nothing significant.

But what’s the big deal about having a lot of facial hair, anyway? Does it mean that you’re more of
a man? Nah. Will women dig you? Who knows with women? Are you going to be more popular? Probably not.
All it means is that you have to get your butt out of bed at the wee hours of the
morning and try to coordinate your actions so that you don’t end up walking around campus with wads of toilet
paper adhered to your cheek.

Everyone's favorite seven little no-no's

Being a senior has few perks, but the biggest one is having cable TV right in your very own living
room. There is not one minute in the 1440 per day (who says English majors are crummy mathematicians?) when there
is absolutely, positively nothing on. I mean, sometimes I’m forced to watch the Inspirational Channel (a dream come true —
televangelists 24 hours a day reminding me that I’m going to rot in Hell) or MTV (a dream come true
— millions of reasons for me to not mind Hell so much; look at all the company I’ll have).

Speaking of Hell and eternal damnation, recently I saw a blending of the two worst channels of cable. No, Robert
Tipton is not banging his head while a hot babe...

Semester in Exile
Frampton takes a beating

I heard through the grapevine that the sophomore class has a little joke about me. It goes something like this:
“I must be cool because I can drink as much as Frampton.” In response, I just want to point out,
that, on a good day, the sophomore class sucks.

Now, I don’t really mean that. Nor did I mean that the freshmen are a bunch of dorks. However, I
have a policy taught to me by the illustrious humorist, David Thompson. I never apologize for my articles, so I
guess I do mean all of that stuff.

Anyway, before class at UNCC the other day (and no I did not pull for the 49’ers in the soccer
game) I stopped to talk to one of the fraternities signing freshmen and sophomores for their annual rush. The frat
boys were very helpful, telling me I looked like I...‘Might make a good frat man. Then they handed me a
little book designed to inform potential brothers about the fraternity system. Really, though, it was a guide for those interested
in joining a house, providing them with information designed to lead them into the proper fraternity. I figured I’d do
the same thing for the freshmen.

Chris Frampton

The format is a little loose, but I’m sure everyone will figure out how this thing works. Do you think
you are God’s gift to the fairer sex? Look for a KA bid. Do your career goals involve selling insurance
in Duluth? You should be a Sig Ep. Forget your name sometimes? Phi Delt. Forget your name for chemical reasons?
PiKA. Have an affinity for hats with farm equipment logos? SAE is for you. Feel guilty if you go a
whole week without talking to your mom? Hey, you’re a Squid. None of the above? Go FIJI.

Moving on... (Folks, I’m having a really hard time coming up with an article that doesn’t talk about beer, so
you’ll have to forgive me if I wander.) Do you ever wonder why the people at Dow Chemical Company named
their all-purpose cleaner “Fantastik” with a “k”? Probably some type of code thing, or maybe they just can’t spell too
well.

Now let’s get on to what I really want to talk about, and that is the general state of the
opinions section. Under the fine leadership of Alex Crumbley, who, seriously, does a wonderful job, the section has sunk to
what one teacher referred to as “its lowest point in years.” What I want to know is why that is.
It’s certainly not Alex’s fault.

See Framp on page 9

In tight leather rubs on him. I’m speaking of MTV’s special on the seven deadly sins. For your fun and
entertainment, I’m now going to examine my conscience in front of God and everybody. Feel free to do the same.

Nathan Seay

The first deadly sin I can remember is sloth. I committed this sin all the time as a kid. My
friends and I would spend all day doing nothing but hanging upside-down from trees. But I don’t plan on climbing
a tree for a while. Even if I wanted to, I don’t think my arms could pull my butt up
there. TV is a much better way to blow off things like school and church. Sloth is not a problem
for me.

Envy is up next. I’m fine with this one, too. I have no desire to be one of those people
like Brett Easton Ellis who got his first novel published at age 19 or Shaquille O’Neal who is earning millions
of dollars at my age.

Covetousness is pretty much the same thing as envy, but it has to do with people’s wives. I don’t think
this sin is fair. Heterosexual women and gay men have a definite advantage at this one. But I’m not jealous
of Richard Gere for marrying Cindy Crawford or Billy Joel for marrying Christie Brinkley. No, I prefer to be a
poor, struggling college student. I like the fact that women would rather face a slow, painful death than have a
five-minute conversation with me. It builds character.

Number three is gluttony. I wasn’t sure what this was until I watched the MTV special. It seems that gluttony
is a synonym for bulimia. I pass this one with flying colors. You should see all the food that I
leave on my tray in the commons. I only vomit up what I’ve consumed after I drink to excess.

Lust? Next question, please.

Number six is anger. The two or three people who know me can attest to the fact that I’m a
harmless tree-hugger. I’ve almost had a mean thought a few times, but I’ve never wished misfortunes upon anyone. No, I
really would be grieved if Rush Limbaugh choked on a big chunk of steak. I’ve only felt compassion for people
who don’t know how to merge into the interstate as I’m stuck behind them for hours after almost winding up
in their trunk. No, anger is not part of my vocabulary.

The last and greatest of the seven deadlies is pride (we all know where the Marines are going now, don’t
we?). Now this one is by far the easiest to prove my innocence. If you’ve ever seen me at a
party, you know that there is not one ounce of pride in my body. Besides, could anyone with pride put
their name on top of this newspaper column? I’ve done a bang-up job on pride. I see a lot of
parallels in my life to Jesus’. I denied pride just like Jesus did when Satan offered him the world. Yeah,
I sure am good at not being proud.

I feel much better now. I haven’t committed a single deadly sin. I may be a failure in this life,
but at least I’ll inherit the earth or something.

The Davidsonian Opinions section. Where else would one find such brilliance?
