4 THE DAVIDSONIAN. ELECTION '93 MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993

1993 SGA ELECTIONS

SGA PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES

Editor's Note: The Davidsonian asked the candidates for Student Government President to respond to four questions regarding their candidacy. 
(1) What are your qualifications for the job of SGA President? 
(2) If elected, what will be your primary interests/goals as SGA President? 
(3) The SGA President is the leader, but still part of a team. If you are elected, how do you plan to pursue your own personal agenda as well as work with the SGA body as a whole to get things done? 
(4) Why do you want to be SGA President?

Jennifer Humphrey

Initiative, action, experience, commitment, and dedication to students and their needs are just a few of the qualities an effective SGA president should possess. I can offer these to Davidson. Three years on the Senate, two years as class president, involvement in various campus groups, as well as work with several SGA committees qualify me for this position. I have experience in many aspects of student life. Within the Union, I have worked with the F-Crew and Davidson Outdoors. I have participated in IMAC and was a member of the Track team. I helped to start Student Health Options and Concerns (SHOC) which has functioned as a liaison between students and the infirmary and will be setting up a hotline this semester. I helped initiate Connor House to increase women’s choices and representation on the court, a goal not yet achieved. I also have introduced visitors to the campus as a tour guide with Davidson Ambassadors. My past involvement with these groups has given me an informed view of activity at Davidson and of student concerns.

Committee work is nothing new to me. I have worked with the Activity Tax Council to reorganize the way your $130 activity tax is divided between campus groups. As a result, student groups may now petition for money at any time, not just in April. Recipients are also held accountable during the year for their expenditures, something not previously done. As a member of the Student Conduct Council this year, sexual harassment and assault have been my major concern. I am helping to establish a system that deals specifically with these sensitive cases on a separate sub-committee. As a co-chair of the Council on Academic Affairs, I have worked on the calendar and am pleased to tell you that, beginning this semester, students will have eleven periods instead of ten to take their exams. This committee is also looking into reducing cum laude graduation requirements in response to minus grades, improving drop/add, evaluating optional class days, and getting student representation on the calendar sub-committee of the Faculty Executive Committee. With this work, I have learned the various avenues through which changes may be instituted. I have worked hard for students the past three years and hope to continue doing so as your SGA President.

Some of my primary goals as SGA President are to increase cooperation and efforts between various student groups, improve the effectiveness of SGA Committees, and continue successful projects that the SGA has already initiated. In the past, there has been little coordination and communication between the Union, PCC, and SGA. Though each of these groups have different roles on campus, increased interaction between these will better serve the student body. Perhaps a coordinated effort between these three groups could have effected a slightly different outcome and might have made the transition to a new policy easier. This was a lesson we all learned the hard way. Let’s work to prevent this from happening again. The only way to get student concerns heard and really do something about them is to organize effectively and work together. I feel that the SGA has not fully utilized the greatest resource on campus: the students. SGA Committees have not consistently met their potential to work for students. It is my hope to involve more students in these groups and work with the chairs. Reach Out At Davidson has shown that several committees under one umbrella can all be effective if properly organized. I would like to reorganize the way committees have worked within the SGA and have Chairs meet collectively. More focus among SGA Committees will not only get more accomplished, but also involve students in a position where they can make a difference in Davidson. A more effective SGA is my major goal.

This year the SGA has worked to “rebuild community” through increased contact between students and other parts of the college. I hope to continue Student/Faculty Roundtables and invite administrators and other faculty to SGA meetings to further relations and communication between all “Davidsonians.” The Committee on Minority Affairs has worked hard this year to promote discussion surrounding race, gender, and religion in freshman halls. This has met with success. As president, I will encourage these discussions to include all students, not just freshmen. I also wish to push for curriculum dealing with cultures outside of Europe and America. There are, for example, weaknesses in LatinAmerican and Afro-American Studies. A greater variety of courses should be provided to enrich the academic experience of students. I feel I have much to offer the student body as the SGA president. I am sensitive to the needs of the students and have worked hard for the past three years to have their concerns heard and acted upon. Since coming to Davidson I have been involved in various See "Humphrey" on page 6

1. I haven’t always wanted to be President of the SGA. As a Freshman, I was frustrated with student government. There seemed to be a limit on what we could do. Sure we could hand out exams and talk about lighting and kiosks, but I never felt like the SGA could ever really make a difference — until last year. The long overdue emergence of F.L.A.G. as an SGA-chartered organization functioned as a signal to me that we as Davidson students were beginning to open our minds. I believe in a new vision for the SGA — a campaign platform based entirely on inclusiveness, diversity, and open-mindedness. I offer two qualifications for the job of SGA President: the passion to make Davidson appeal to everyone rather than a certain type of person, and a plan to get us headed in that direction.

2. It has been said that a community is only as strong as its weakest link. I often think of organizations in these terms — especially in regard to an athletic team or even a team of SGA Senators. What about Davidson College? There is a certain part of Davidson that I believe is particularly weak. It is the issue of diversity. Because of our lack of diversity and a general discontent among minorities at Davidson, minority concerns are my priority as a candidate for SGA President. If there is one positive message I wish to get across to other students, it is that a strong effort to diversify the faces on this campus as well as the curriculum would be a benefit for everyone in the community, not just minorities. My intent is not to criticize Davidson’s past, but to assert my conviction that we have arrived at a time when some headway can be gained. After talking with many Freshmen during CoMA discussions about race relations, I am convinced that a lot of students are frustrated with Davidson’s lack of diversity. Having fulfilled his last year’s campaign platform of Community Building, Anthony Foxx has paved the bridge of communication between the trustees and a SGA President who concentrates on diversity. The trustees are more receptive now to the students’ concerns than they were a year ago. They need to hear that the students want diversity. I know I can effectively deliver that message.

To the trustees, I plan to emphasize the need for more support towards financial aid and minority scholarships. I plan also to follow through on Anthony’s efforts to convince them of the need for a new student union. I believe Davidson desperately needs an alternative social outlet — a place where we can all hang out when court parties start getting a little bit old. To the faculty, I plan to pursue the addition of an integrated studies curriculum — something along the line of humanities, but linking ethnic, gender, and international studies. To the students, I plan to focus on a redirection of attitude as it relates to open-mindedness and unfair stereotypes. This last challenging goal does not involve a process of actively seeking to convert opinions to the “right” view. Rather it involves open discussions about race relations, both in and out of the classroom. I would like to see the model upon which S.E.A.R.C.H. was founded introduced into the eating houses and fraternities. I do not believe that defining minority concerns as the priority translates into a neglect of other important issues. If I am elected, the SGA will still challenge the existing alcohol policy significantly. We will still strengthen efforts to offer alternatives to this backhanded business of optional class days and 5 exam days. In fact, these kinds of issues will be pursued no matter whom you elect. I believe it is the issue of diversity that is the key factor in this election. Diversifying Davidson and redirecting attitudes are not overnight processes, but they are concerns that must be pursued with more energy and dedication.

3. The Davidsonian is wise to ask this question. In the past three years, I have often noticed that the President’s personal agenda can be quite different from the SGA agenda which is defined often by the immediate concerns of the Senators. I realize that, if elected, I may be challenged with this task of both pursuing my own priorities (as they are detailed in the previous answer) and responding to the various other concerns of the Senators. If I am elected, the SGA agenda will be formed largely according to what the senators want, even if I am not personally interested in some of their concerns. In See "Smith" on page 6