THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

Smith Specifies Means to Increase College Diversity

Alden Smith was inaugurated as SGA President Feb. 9. Excerpts from his inauguration speech are reprinted here.

Over the Christmas break, I had an interesting conversation on an airplane with a young woman from Minnesota. I was explaining to her that - No, Davidson is not a junior college, but actually a fine liberal arts school with an outstanding academic reputation. She said - Oh, it must be like Washington and Lee University, which she then explained is much too conservative for her blood.

Now I happen to be of the school of thought that Davidson is a better college than W & L, and it concerns me that the image of Davidson is often being compared to other conservative institutions.

Today’s implications of the word “conservative” are many — traditional, exclusive, hesitant to change, single-minded, homophobic, etc. Some of these words may indeed apply to Davidson.

If an institution is only as strong as its weakest link, I may be justified in feeling concerned about this school I love so much. Davidson has a weak link. There may or may not be general agreement that one cause of our relative lack of cultural diversity on this campus is Davidson’s appeal to a certain type of student. Southern... caucasian... conservative more often than not?

Recruiting Diversity

One reality that looms over any liberal arts college in the South is that diversity is expensive. Extensive financial aid, merit scholarships, and other financial resources are essential for attracting high-caliber students of diverse cultures. These are resources that the Admissions Office must have sufficient access to.

Sometimes I think of Davidson as a good college with great intentions. We intend to recruit diversity, but the trustees put a cap on the amount of financial aid we can give just last Spring. I believe that the Admissions Office (now under new leadership) is doing all it can to recruit minority students to Davidson. I also believe that effort and vision are not enough. The Statement of Purpose is an exclusive document, especially to non-Christian students and faculty. Among other things, it says that one of Davidson’s primary purposes is to develop students of “Christian character.” This statement is simply no longer true. Although we still maintain a close and positive relationship with the Presbyterian Church, the curriculum does not seek to make students more “Christian.” We need to modify Davidson’s Statement of Purpose, so as to include everyone in the college family.

Non-Discriminatory Clause

Related to the Statement of Purpose is the college’s Nondiscrimination Policy. Adding sexual orientation to this policy would not change the atmosphere of Davidson, but it is a long overdue step towards inclusiveness.

This trustee cap on financial aid — this exclusive nondiscrimination policy and Statement of Purpose — the relative lack of diversity in the academic curriculum — the need for more social options (namely a new student union where we all feel comfortable hanging out together)... These are examples of the kinds of issues that the SGA will make a stand on this year.

Making a Stand

I have made a heavy assumption in this speech that most students at Davidson want more diversity. I realize that there is a minority of students who do not share my dream of diversifying Davidson, but I refuse to attempt to represent absolutely everyone. I am not a politician. Sometimes you’ve just got to make a stand.

I also realize that diversity at Davidson is not a new issue. Diversity is my personal focus for the SGA because I want to mobilize student government to be a catalyst for less talking, less Task Force Reports, and more action. I’m not offering any promises. Just my best.

Alden Smith

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT

Serving the best in traditional Southern Foods
Tues.-Fri. Lunch: 11-2; Dinner: 5-9
Saturday Dinner: 5-9
Chase Your Winter Blues Away at THE RAFTERS
Matt Auten Singing Blues and Folk Music
Thursday Nights From 7:00 to 9:00
Free Nachos With Any 2 Entrees!
To Go Orders — Daily Lunch Specials
761 N. Main St. Mooresville, NC

WHY GO OUT FOR PIZZA?

JUST WHEN “HOOPS” HENDERSON THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO GO OUT FOR PIZZA.

HOURS:
4-11 pm Sun.-Thurs.;
4 pm-12 midnight Fri.-Sat.

Call Us! 896-8007
Davidson/Cornelius

Coke is a registered trademark of the Coca-Cola Company. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1/20¢.

LATE NITE SPECIAL
$7.99 plus tax
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA PLUS
Coca-Cola classic® or diet Coke®
Hours: 10 p.m. - Close

MEAL DEAL
$11.99 plus tax
COUPLE'S COMBO
MEDIUM 2-TOPPING PIZZA,
PLUS 2 CANS OF COKE®

DOMINO'S TWISTY BREAD™
$10.99 plus tax
LARGE 1-TOPPING PIZZA
PLUS TWO 12 oz cans of Coca-Cola® classic or diet Coke®

CHOOSE YOUR SAVINGS
$12.99 plus tax
LARGE 2-TOPPING PIZZA
PLUS 2 Liter of Coca-Cola® classic or diet Coke®