THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
YVETTE PITA - Special Section Editor
Founded in 1914 "The South's Foremost College Weekly"
MANDY CURTIS - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist
LAURA DENNIS - Production Manager
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Another Campus Debate

The newest policy debate rages across campus. Not about tolerance or diversity. This time it’s the prized Honor Code. Where does its jurisdiction end: can a student be charged with an Honor Code offense for stealing a street sign in California? Impracticality of enforcing such a stringent law, some claim, forces us to leave off-campus offenses to other authorities, while others say that the Code is more than a set of rules, but a way of living, that reaches into the depths of a Davidson student’s existence.

Like many of the debates that flare up around the College, the specifics of the two camps’ arguments overshadow the basic principles upon which the Code stands, and more importantly, of which people of strong moral character are made: honesty, fairness, and conviction. Virtues such as these hardly demand any debate, but debate continues. Forcing an untrained mind to consider that which may seem improbable is the charge of a liberal arts institution. That such lively discussion still exists at this time of year, as souls grow weary and exams loom ahead, certainly must be a positive sign of the vitality of the College’s intellectual abilities.

These debates are the stuff that will enlighten and discipline our minds so that we may make intelligent decisions in life. They do not, however, represent life, but politics. When asked what happened at Davidson this year, would students answer, “We took leaps and bounds towards having a more diverse campus”? No, this was politics. What happened at Davidson this year was much, much bigger.

This year, students traveled to Charlotte on a weekly basis to help underprivileged students learn to read. They shared their knowledge so that these young citizens might one day have the intellectual opportunities most of us in college have. This year, students donated time and blood to place themselves on the National Bone Marrow Registry, in an attempt, however slim the possibility, to help save the lives of strangers. Some already have been picked. This year, a soccer team shocked the college athletic world, making the community feel as if they had played some part in this triumph, and filling the college with pride. They came home to an over-packed stadium and placed Davidson on the map—and national TV.

These events do not represent up-and-coming political or intellectual debate, but some of that which makes our lives meaningful: courage, selflessness, and giving. The catch-phrase for next year? Who knows. Diversity, tolerance, the honor code, and debates themselves all have times and places. Being members of a college community, however, affords us the opportunity to leave these things behind once a year, for three free months. Underneath flowery speech and poetic prose lies a very simple message. Have a darn good summer. Enjoy it. And most importantly, don’t think. Good luck to the seniors and thanks to all those who helped us in our quest to truly be “The South’s Foremost College Weekly.”

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. The Davidsonian requests that letters be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be published. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Carlson Defends Diversity Question

To the Editors,

As a concerned member of the Davidson community, I feel compelled to reply to Phillip D. Atchison and A. Weaver Whitehead’s April 12, 1993 letter to the editor in which they explained their “dismay and shock” at the possibility of the establishment of “thought-police” in the admissions office. I am happy to tell them they have nothing to worry about. Davidson changes constantly, like any good college. In order best to reflect the shifting attitudes and priorities of the college, the faculty admissions committee...Revises the entrance application periodically. At this time, the committee is considering a host of revisions, not the least of which is an additional essay question designed to ascertain an applicant’s capacity for critical thinking. Such a question, as endorsed by the SGA-appointed Council on Minority Affairs, would center on issues of open-mindedness and curiosity, according to SGA president Alden Smith. “It’s not a conservative or liberal issue,” said Dr. Bill Mahoney, chair of the faculty admissions committee, “It’s a thoughtful or unthoughtful issue.” Dr. Mahoney wants to modify the application as a whole to emphasize intellectual engagement. He does not want to enforce any particular opinion, just ascertain that any opinion expressed on the application is an example of well-formed critical thought. “We take open-mindedness informed by critical thinking seriously,” he said, “It’s just the opposite of the thought police.”

I applaud the admissions committee and COMA for their commitment to something much more important than so-called political correctness. Their decision to represent Davidson to prospective students as a place concerned with students’ capacity to form and reform their opinions is admirable. And the entrance application is the perfect place to start. Just as current students were informed of the importance of the Honor Code by its prominence on the application, future students will know that Davidson values everyone’s opinion, no matter how divergent from the current intellectual fad. If it chooses to change its application, Davidson will introduce its commitment to true open-mindedness: the ability to evaluate critically one’s own views and opinions in the light of others’ views and opinions.

Respectfully,
Sara Carlson

Cruise Clears Misunderstanding

To the Editors,

In last week’s issue of The Davidsonian, a short story of mine appeared along with a photograph of a house that appears to be the subject of the story. But the story, being fictitious, has no subject in reality; it is imaginary. The place, the people, they are all imaginary. However, when placed next to an image similar to one described in the story which does exist in reality, like the house in the photograph, it seems to be saying things about that real image that are not so. It crosses out of fiction to reality and appears as a lie, as slander in this case. The description of the house in the story is a description of the house in the story, not a description of a house on Depot Street, but the presentation in the paper made it seem as if it is. They are entirely separate, but too similar to be presented together. Had I known they were going to be, I would not have given up the story to be printed.

So please, if you have not read the story and think you may, do me this favor. Rip the picture out, or, even better, cut it out so as not to risk making a mess of the thing. Everyone likes to cut stuff and God knows, we don’t get the opportunity around here to ever actually cut. Too much money was laid down for those Swiss army knives to allow not cutting whenever the chance comes about.

Thanks,
Mike Cruise

King Addresses Passion Play

Dear fellow skeptics, doubters, and cynics,

I am writing in response to your reaction to the impromptu crucifixion scene which occurred the Thursday before Easter Sunday. First of all, I would like to thank you for your participation in the play. Without your attention and involvement, our play would not have been so realistic. Just as Christ was mocked and scorned nearly two thousand years ago, so too did your cynicism mock and scorn him last Thursday.

By writing this letter I am not pointing a condemning finger at anyone. The reason I address this letter as “Dear fellow skeptics, doubters, and cynics” is because I understand where you are coming from. As human beings we have all been skeptics, doubters, and cynics throughout different times in our lives and we shall remain skeptics, doubters, and cynics of many different things. Doubt and skepticism can be healthy products of a liberally educated mind.

There is a place, however, where this doubt and skepticism end. For me and many other Christians, this doubt ends where faith begins. Faith is not something rational which can be obtained through any theorem or proof, but rather begins when one abandons all rationality. Those of you who have read any Kierkegaard will recognize such a “leap.”

See Play on page 7