THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993

Creationism vs. Evolutionism: a relevant issue?
By Stephen Faller

Ultimately, the question of creation versus evolution is an important one because people have found a way to relate its answer to their lives. There are many ways of applying the issue to one’s life, but over and over, the following two views have presented themselves to me. Usually, in one corner, there is the furious fundamentalist, and in the other corner is the angry atheist.

In short, each extreme has a point and a fault. Let’s start with the side of our friend the furious fundamentalist (henceforth referred to as fundie). Now, this is a stereotype. I feel that I can generalize like this because I have been something of each extreme in my life. It is not my intention to point the proverbial finger at anyone, but create a caricature. Caricatures, by nature, are ridiculously untrue, but they contain enough truth about them so that the subject is recognizable.

The fundie believes that his importance comes from God. The strength of the fundie position is that the fundie believes himself to be worthwhile. However, anything gained from this understanding is lost to the fundie’s flaw. That is, too often the individual believes he does not have to go out and actively seek life. This extremist “faith” is not an active trusting in God (that would be believing that everything could be accomplished through God, and it is worth trying to do everything). No, it is an inactive resignation. God tries to give hope, and people try to give up. No good. What good does it do, that a man save his immortal soul, and have him throw away the very life that his beloved God wanted him to have?

The angry atheist is no better. They often become angry atheists because they recognize the resignation of the fundie. To do away with the resignation, they do away with God and creation. They don’t want to go through life finding out, when they get to the end of it, that they have not lived. Understandable. The only trouble is, in doing away with God, they often do away with their very sense of self. Philosophical materialism rules, and a man is just nothing but parts. What difference does it make that I go out and get trashed tonight? I’m just a collection of protons, neutrons, and electrons; there is no right or wrong, so I might as well have all the fun I can. But this isn’t any good either, and this life of orgiastic nihilism is no better than a life of pious resignation.

The fact of the matter is, the individual has a self, and no matter how hard one tries to convince themselves that they are just electrons, they never truly believe it in their hearts. In order to feel love, betrayal, hurt, or anything, one must have a self. It is almost as if the large amount of hurt in the world serves as a proof of the self. Something must be feeling the hurt.

I ultimately defer to the most fundamental source of all. I quote from the Coptic Gospel of Thomas, “Jesus said: If the flesh came into existence because of the spirit, it is a marvel. But if the spirit came into existence because of the body, it is a marvel of marvels. But as for me, I wonder at this, how this great wealth made its home in this poverty.” I don’t know which happened (creation or evolution). I wasn’t there, but I’m here, isn’t that enough? It doesn’t matter, because for some reason we have selves and lives, and we’d better figure out what to do with them.

To the annoying extremists on both sides of the issue, I close with this: go home and find a real issue, such as how one might go about a well-spent life in such a sick and dead world.

Blame it on Texas
Country isn't just beer and barstools
By Susanna Young

Okay, I know what it is. I know why, after reading my last column, every single one of you doesn’t have at least one country music station on memory on your car radio. It’s the drinking, isn’t it? As most of us are under-aged and inexperienced in the world of alcohol, you all just can’t identify with many of the songs that talk about bars and drinking. If you think about it, though, it’s obvious why alcohol is such a prevalent topic for country music writers—could you sing John Anderson’s “Money in the Bank” sober?

Well, here’s my solution (I’m always thinking). Country music has lots of other great topics. In the immortal words of my childhood hero and adolescent idol, David Allan Coe, we still have “Mama, or trains, or trucks, or prison.” So what are you all so worried about? Everyone has a mother. No matter what you call her, you can’t deny that you have one (unless you slept through seventh grade biology, and I’m sure I knew about my mom before the seventh grade). You can identify with this topic, so stop squirming and pay attention to the rest of the article.

Trains are a mode of transportation that is slowly becoming obsolete, and it’s a shame. I myself have had the opportunity to ride a few trains. I’m not talking about the trains that rode around the park by the zoo, whose seats I couldn’t squeeze my backside into now with some help from a crowbar. And I’m not talking about the subway. I mean real live, cross-country, passenger trains. It is an incredible experience to feel the wheels turn beneath you and to see the open country stretched out before your eyes. So ride a train.

See Trains continued on page 10

REAT! MY PANEL OF

Semester in Avignon
The problems of breaking your spell-checker
By Chris Frampton

Oh tragedies of tragedies. Now UNCC is in for the sort of shock treatment that the once illustrious Davidson College experienced at the beginning of this...school year. They, however, in their infinite, institutional wisdom, have dealt with a crisis of epic proportions in a manner becoming their enormous size. They have completely and totally and redundantly done as others have done before them. Though they have also taken immediate measures to avoid the unavoidable trauma that would most assuredly result were they to allow a crisis of such magnanimous implications to result from the mistakes of others. That’s right. They kicked my butt out. Why? Why do such an awful and terrible thing that could bring people to starve themselves in protest? Well, it turns out, I didn’t get my rabies shot. (Which would explain why I am always frothing at the mouth—actually, maybe all of that beer I drink to look cool explains that.) But unlike our once illustrious college, my new prosecutors have added a clause to the contract of termination: I can get back in if I allow some monstrous woman to stick a needle into my butt. So, no worries. However, in my pursuit of justice in this case, I learned an interesting thing about UNCC students: if they have classes before three o’clock, they have to get their shots. If they don’t, they can have anything they want disease-wise. The result of this ridiculous regulation is obvious and it can be seen every day in my chemistry class which is in the wee hours of the evening. In the front row, people literally drool over the professor's every word. In the back row, students scream in pain as their insides eat at them. And each and every class, some leper raises their arm to ask a question and it falls off and into someone else’s lap. (That is tasteless humor; if you can call it humor at all.) But life at UNCC is joyous. To date, I have talked to exactly two people, both of whom were about as cool as, I don’t know, Bill Gullan. They seemed to think I was just a freshman, a baby so to speak. I guess they saw me walking to and from class alone, my head down, my shoulders drooped as I contemplated the sheer brain power of the students with whom I had just taken a class. The sight must have thrust pity into their hearts and they asked if I wanted to go to a Charlotte Knights’ game with some college version of the glee club that they led. It hurt my pride when I had to tell them to get away before I shot them through the throat. Speaking of guns. Did you know, that if I wanted to, if I was crazy enough, or bored enough, I could walk into Roses, throw three hundred dollars on the counter, walk out with a semi-automatic weapon, and kill everyone in the parking lot? Just a thought. But back to UNCC, where they don’t allow guns on campus. I did meet one other person. Well, I overheard him talking to a teacher. Basically, he said, “I am sorry if there are some spelling mistakes on this paper but my spell checker is broken on my computer so I couldn’t get all the words right.” The teacher laughed and said, “Oh that’s all right, I won’t pay attention to them unless the mistakes really start to add up.” Folks, we go to the wrong school, even if we do have rabies and really like morning classes. Take your core thingies.

Seay Rations

Beavis, Butthead, and Nathan
By Nathan Seay

Perhaps this sounds familiar: you’re sitting in history class, studying about World War Two or something. The professor is lecturing about D-Day. “And thus, the Allies were able to penetrate far enough...” You don’t hear anything else for about five minutes because you keep saying to yourself “He said penetrate. Huh huh huh uh huh huh.” Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I have a problem (well, another one anyway): Beavis and Butt-Head are ruining my academic career. I now can laugh at anything. Biology class is impossible; I don’t know of one that never mentions “sex” or “organism.” (Sorry about the lack of continuity--Nathan has been censored.) Art class is full of naked people. Chemistry is difficult because I’m always tempted to raise my hand and ask the professor how to make something that will “pack a mean buzz.” Even the word “but” can set me off. I don’t want to give Beavis and Butt-Head a bad rap. They’ve already gotten knocked about by parent groups concerned with the evil pouring into their children from the TV. (I guess none of these people have ever thought of throwing the thing away.) I personally think that there are several good things to say about the show. Look at Beavis and Butt-Head’s economic background. They don’t live in such a nice neighborhood. They don’t have cars or even a change of clothes, yet Beavis and Butt-Head are content. They know that money can’t buy happiness (even though it is cool). And pay attention, parents of lazy kids: Beavis and Butt-Head have jobs. They’ve tempted me so many times to get a job at McDonald’s just so I can man the drive-through window: “We’re closed or something. Drive around to the . . . Uh, hello?” Another reason that I like Beavis and Butt-Head so much is that they glorify being stupid. At last we stupid people of the world have someone to look to for guidance. What should we do with our lack of brainpower and overabundance of hormones? Beavis and Butt-Head give us suggestions three times a day. It’s about time the PC movement started paying attention to stupid people. I’m also sick and tired of seeing beautiful people on TV all the time. I know of no landlord that looks like Heather Locklear and none of this year’s freshmen looks like Jason Priestly (maybe next year, ladies). Beavis and Butt-Head are making a stand for ugly people going through the ugliest time in their lives — puberty. Beavis and Butt-Head are destroying me, but at least they’re teaching me how to have fun at the bottom of the heap.