THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993

Opinions

Policy Continued from page 8

sible for getting themselves to class.” She also suggests that students should be allowed to stay at houses with music
as long as they would like after alcohol is no longer served. She asks, “otherwise where will people go to
sober up, their cars?”

Loring says, “I don’t mind a limitation on weekday parties but two is ridiculous. I do think the restriction is
a good idea; I know I have worked more because of it.” Some students, especially freshmen men who remember rushing
fraternities in the fall, agree that the limited weekday parties eliminate some pressure to spend time on the court during
the week.

Connor social chair, sophomore Kimberly Nance, disagrees, “Davidson students should be responsible enough to determine when they will go out.
The faculty should not have any influence on our social lives.” According to Dean Terry, the limitations on weekday parties
came directly from repeated requests by professors. He is uncertain about the faculty’s impression of the influence the rule has
had on attendance and class attention.

Underage Drinking

Many students do not feel that alcohol is any less available to underage drinkers than it was last year. Others
find that a significantly smaller volume of alcohol leaves the basement of social houses. Regardless, most students do not believe
that overall consumption has decreased. Although she does not feel that alcohol is significantly more difficult to obtain, hall counselor
Keri Slater observes, “the policy has prevented some people who didn’t drink in high school from drinking as heavily as
soon.”

Junior John Harper who spent first semester abroad, has seen a significant difference in the atmosphere at parties this year
as opposed to last. Harper is twenty-one and “sometimes feels accosted by underage drinkers at parties, especially coming up from
the basement to a crowd surrounding the stairs.”

“I don’t think the policy has at all curbed underage drinking; it has only been relocated,” says Dean Terry. Many
students expressed similar observations noting that the widespread change in geography of the drinking has led to less attended and
later parties. Underage drinkers also commented on the increased expense for alcohol.

The Future of the Policy

In March the Council on Campus and Religious Life will review the policy, taking into consideration reports from the SGA,
the PCC, SHOC, and the campus police. The CCRL will then make suggestions for a stronger and more effective policy
to the Board of Trustees in April. Currently the Alcohol Enforcement Committee is working to clarify some of the confusions
of the policy. For instance, they will define what constitutes obstruction of a monitor, who needs ID, and for which
violations party sponsors are responsible. The most common violations include underage drinking, lack of response to a monitor, and disorderly
conduct.

Overall Dean Terry perceives the policy has worked as well as he expected. “I'd like to say the policy is
here to stay andI hope we can reconcile ourselves to it and make purpose that alcohol will not be the
centerpiece of Davidson social life,” he says. Terry has, “been disappointed with the kinds of support from agencies which could
create alternative social options, though there has been some improvement.” Terry applauded the growing success of the Outpost as a
supplement rather than a competitor for the Court activities.

Current Alcohol Policy Changes Little for Independent

Independent Continued from page 9

locations the independent underage drinker can go. The furiously engrossing 900 Room is as moribund as its planned events are
dull. Despite its energy on 21-year-old night, (I have heard rumors) on weekend evenings its lack of popularity is only
surpassed by the twenty-four-hour study room. Other school-sponsored evening events are fun, but do not provide the same social atmosphere.
This ultimately leaves the fraternities and eating houses.

With Patterson Court in mind, consider the situation. If there is an open party to attend, it usually doesn’t open
until around 10:00. What the hell am I supposed to do until ten? Study? Please. I’m an independent, but I’m
not perverse. Rather, I’m going to drink. Truly, it is during this three to four-hour stretch that I will do
my most serious consumption, away from the alcohol monitors and fear of authority, in the comfort and quiet of my
own room. By the time I reach Patterson Court, I don’t have to worry about drinking. I may still drink
a beer or two, but the desired effect has already been attained, beyond the limitations of the system. Thus, my
room serves the purpose as well as any bar, and the court, dry or otherwise, awaits.

Unpleasant as it may seem to a fraternity brother or eating house “sister?”, the system has served me well ever
since I came to Davidson. Getting alcohol at court parties was never a problem for me, but it never was
a big concern. Someone always existed who would buy for me, and I always had enough of what I wanted.
If twenty-one-year-olds can only carry one can of beer up the stairs at a time, so be it. One can
is all I need. And drinking in my room doesn’t bother me; Sentelle’s two-tone putrid green walls would only inspire
convulsion anyway. Finally, I wonder if the new policy has had any effect on court members either. As much as
people may complain, the parties I attend now seem almost as good as they were in the past. Perhaps more
people follow this example than I am aware of.

Write For News
Call Alice at -6010

Shooter Specials
Mug Nite $1.50

Asheville at Biltmore Estates

RAINBOW

Take off with Rainbow Deli, your home base for Fresh Fish and Steaks. Lunch, Dinner, and drink specials daily. Weekend
live entertainment.

10% OFF
ENTIRE TICKET (excluding alcohol)
DINE IN ONLY - FOUR CONVENIENT LOCATIONS
Daily Drink Specials

Lake Norman
6301 Magnolia Estates Dr.
Cornelius, NC
(704) 896-0091

Arboretum Shopping Center and Town Center Plaza
Friday & Saturday: Live Entertainment
Charlotte
