OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

Pithy Irreverence ... Sean Lind

"IT Hab a Coad;" How Sean Deals When His Body's Down

Intelligence reports warned of an imminent enemy attack. I began to notice signs of it all around. People were coughing; they were sniffing; they were pale. The Flu was on the offensive. I set up my defenses. Exercise on the right flank. Check. Balanced diet with plenty of fruits and vegetables on the left. Roger. Plenty of sleep straight ahead. Aye-Aye. I was fine for a while, and cocky. Sickness is for the weak, I thought. Then, a little sniffle here, a little cough there. Somehow, the enemy had breached the perimeter. I was determined to fight with every ounce of my being. By force of will, I, The Mighty Sean, would triumph and remain healthy.

As the battle raged, however, I realized that I was hopelessly outgunned. I was being attacked from all sides - my head hurt, my back ached, I coughed. I had planed off half my nose with Kleenex. ("But there’s still plenty to go around,” says my funny roommate - Oh, ha, ha, he, ho!) Still, I remained on my feet, defending myself against the foe. After all, this is Davidson, and I had no time to be sick. I tried Comtrex, Thera-Flu, Anti-Cold, Omni-Sick - just about every cure on the market. I drank so much citrus, that if someone had squeezed me, I would have peed juice. But I still felt myself getting sick.

So I went the other direction. I tried partying - drinking and smoking and lots of extreme changes in temperature, hoping that my body would become a toxic environment and whatever viruses that were inhabiting it would flee for their lives, like rats leaving a sinking ship. But that didn’t work either. My body started telling me “Sleep. Sleep would be good.” I didn’t listen, because I am opposed to naps. A little aversion left over from my preschool days, perhaps. Then, my body got pissed. “SLEEP!,” it yelled, punctuating this with a neat flashy, dizzy spell. Discretion proved the better part of valor, and I resolved to concede defeat and retreat to the warmth of my bed. I dreamt of lilac ducks. I have no idea why.

Sometime early Friday morning I awoke shaking like an epileptic. Who let in the Arctic? I was freezing cold, and yet had a fever of like 108°. Obviously, I had contracted malaria. Anyway, to make a long illness short, I got better. Time was the only thing that could cure me. And now that I’m a veteran, I feel qualified to expound weightily on my experience. Here’s some interesting things about colds:

Sickness reduces people to their lowest common denominator. It’s completely impossible to have a metaphysical crisis when you’re sick as a dog. “What’s the meaning of life?” Who cares? Just let me get rid of this headache and keep down some solid food. Paradoxically, I find that when I’m sick, I become more religious. “Dear God, I know I haven’t spoken to you since exams, but could you please make this stuffy nose go away?”

When you’re sick, life sucks. Colds are a double whammy at Davidson: First, they cut down productivity, making it impossible to do the mountain of work you’ve been procrastinating. Second, as if it wasn’t already hard enough to get play at Davidson, colds reduce your social prowess to a minimum. It’s hard to be a charmer with snot running down your face.

But now that I’m healthy again, I’ve decided being sick isn’t so bad. Sure, you feel like crap, but look on the bright side: You can sit around on the couch all day and justify it to yourself, your professors, and your parents. You can’t work - you’re sick. If you can figure out how to adjust the dosages of Sudafed, NyQuil and Robitussin just right, you can be flying like a kite ‘till you land on the other side of ill. Best of all, if you play it up enough, you can enjoy the sympathy of all your friends. Sniff a lot, shuffle around, and moan. Works like a charm. So enjoy the cold and flu season, kids!

Sexism Not The Issue By Patrick Jopling & Ryan Harper

Last year a scandal-ridden Clemson University basketball program was in search of a new coach. The man they wanted was Terry Holland, whom they offered nearly one million dollars a year. The name Holland is widely respected and synonymous with integrity in the sports community. His name has been mentioned for almost every coaching vacancy in the past three years, including Kentucky, yet he has remained committed to serving his alma mater.

In the past few weeks, he has received criticism from a faculty immersed solely in academics. The decision made by Holland to rent out Belk Arena was meant to generate extra revenue for a deficit-stricken athletic department, not as a sexist act. It is unfortunate that the game had to be canceled due to an apparent misunderstanding, however the $4500 user’s fee has been promised to the women’s basketball program.

The benefits Terry Holland has brought to Davidson are innumerable. He has brought back several women’s sports. He brings instant credibility to Davidson sports which helps with recruiting and publicity. He played a vital role in bringing in the NCAA Soccer Final Four and willcontinue to have a positive effect on Davidson. Holland ranks among the leaders of NCAA members. It is a shame this recent incident has overshadowed his accomplishments. Professors David Martin and Mary Anne Moore’s request that the money be given to academic affairs is unwarranted, irrelevant, and just plain ludicrous. By using The Observer, they generated undue negative press for the college. It seems as if they could have shown the courtesy to have handled the affair within the college community.

RECESSION? Orchestrated by Troune Meas Services

Stop and Think About It
Misrepresentation Plagues the Media
By Marilyn Ambroise

Television plays a vital role in the lives of all Americans. Whether or not you watch television, you are still affected by it. Over the years, there have been many changes in the television world. However, the misrepresentation and under-representation of minorities has remained constant. This poor representation can be found in all branches of the media. Among the primary examples are news, commercials, and movies.

Let us first consider the news. It is very common to see an accused African-American male in handcuffs, or, if we don’t see him, we are given the description of “a black male in his teens.” One has to wonder if this leads us to believe that only people of that description commit crimes. Think deeply before you put on your retaliating gloves. Crimes committed by Caucasians and presented on the news can be easily rendered as abnormal by our society. Clear cases are those of Ted Bundy and Jeffrey Dahmer, cases which the media had no problem exposing to the public. What this says to society is that these men do not represent Caucasians. Further, this representation suggests that it is unusual for normal Caucasians to commit crimes and that these men are only exceptions to that rule. This leads to the conclusion that only abnormal Caucasians commit crimes.

On the other hand, the news sends subliminal messages to society. Often these imply that it is normal for African-Americans, especially males, to commit crimes. The news introduces African-American males as common criminals. Only on rare occasions are African-Americans praised rather than represented as really weird. The news suggests, then, that crimes committed by African-Americans are not rare and that noteworthy actions on their part are.

Secondly, ask yourself how many minorities you have seen in commercials. Not many, huh? Only the less than observant person would arrive at a different answer. Minorities are rarely given more than parts in fast-food commercials or those that are related to housekeeping. Infomercials may be even worse: Ask yourself how many minorities you have seen testify to being ex-drug addicts or AIDS patients. It was not until recently...

See "Stop" on page 10

Gull's Nest... Who Says Davidson is Conservative?

The myth that Davidson is a conservative place is false. Several weekends ago I journeyed to Washington D.C. for the Young America’s Foundation Student Leadership Seminar. YAF is an organization that sponsors conservative speakers at colleges across the country. There were about ten other students there who told horror stories about episodes of extreme political correctness on their campuses. I thought for a while and was proud that Davidson is not like that. Our speech is not restricted, there is no thought police here, and everyone is free to express anything. Our rights are protected.

The director then asked me if Davidson is a conservative school. I was forced to say no. Conservatism can be separated into two parts: politics and instincts. When it comes to politics, nobody in their right (pardon the pun) mind would say that Davidson is a right-wing institution. The faculty is predictably liberal; the students are pretty split. Clinton won the campus election, the battle of the bumper stickers, and the door war. A large group of students went to see Clinton speak, while only a handful went with me to see Ronald Reagan. That doesn’t really matter, though. There is a healthy (and relatively even) political dialogue here.

Instincts are a different story. There has not been one conservative speaker on campus this year (something I hope to change). Big bucks were doled out to Spike Lee, and everyone was shocked that he would come to such a conservative school. There are radical left-wing viewpoints in this paper every week. There are committees for minority interests, an SGA advocate for women, a gender-inclusive language sheet handed out in most classes. Our two SGA presidential candidates both listed diversity as their top priority. There is nothing wrong with these things, but it just goes to show that Davidson is not conservative. The curriculum is still structured, yet “victims’ studies” courses seem to be popping up. The school seems to be changing. I think many of these reforms are wonderful. I love Davidson. It is not Berkeley or Oberlin. However, maybe it would be more fair if there were more conservative speakers, and if the conservative element of the community spoke up. Davidson is a moderate school. It is more conservative than the Ivy League, but less conservative than most southern schools. Let’s make sure everyone’s rights are protected and all voices are heard.

Bill Gullan is a Republican.