THE DAVIDSONIAN _ ARTS MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993 13

Whistlin' Dixie ... Matt Bumstead

1993 Top Ten Male Country Singers: Brooks Tops Again

Before I proceed with the 2nd annual “Whistlin’ Dixie Top Ten Males,” there are a few stipulations of this ranking that I should mention. First, to be in this list you must be currently performing (that’s why Patsy Cline did not land in last week’s list). Second, to be ranked you must also be very successful with new albums and singles today. George Jones will, therefore, be among the superstars who, though still living, are not eligible for this ranking. Finally, this week’s column is the toughest of the year to write; it probably shouldn’t even be done. There are at least six people who could arguably land in the top three. But the 1993 Top Ten is a lot harder to call (especially since I am going to try to keep my personal preference at bay). Well, here we go...

10. Mark Chesnutt - A pretty strong #10, eh? Hits #1’s without magically produced albums. But he’s still not high profile at all and can’t get much bigger in today’s media-oriented world until he steps out a little more. For real country lovers, he ranks a lot higher.

9. Doug Stone - Continues to hang tough. He’s coming to Coyote Joe’s over Spring Break. If you are here, I highly recommend his show. As I said two weeks ago, he consistently sells albums and has lots of huge singles; but his cheesy romantic demeanor (especially when mixed with his good-old-boy English) probably keeps him from being a big shot.

8. Randy Travis / Ricky Van Shelton - Fine. Call it the top eleven. It’s still my column, and I simply can’t leave out any of these people if this is to be a true ranking of the best. Randy is still hitting number one (two in a row, and four of his last five) and has gotten a small resurgence of popularity in the national spotlight (sort of a fascination with where this whole country boom got its start). Ricky is still doing well, but he may be falling a little with the incredible surge by the younger crowd. Neither has really fallen in rank; the others have just gotten bigger.

7. Clint Black - Again, despite the perceived fall in rank, Clint has actually regained momentum. #7 is way too low for a superstar like Clint Black, but for now he just can’t be any higher. “Burn One Down” (his most recent #1) was a classic Black tune, arguably his best. But he lost points because, upon panicking at his backsliding popularity, he attempted to modify his image by getting rid of the hat. A little weak, Clint.

6. George Strait - George hasn’t really fallen (as I keep saying in all of these), he’s just been surpassed by some great performances in 1992. But give George a gold star for his landing the starring role in “Pure Country” (in which he did just fine, thank you), and for putting out - by way of the film - another savory piece of work. George will always be the country fan’s sentimental favorite.

5. Alan Jackson - It gets even harder now. Whew. “Alan Jackson at #5? Are you crazy?” I can hear the critics now. Sure he writes his own stuff, has the big albums, the big singles, and the huge (and dynamite) live shows, but Alan Jackson does not have what the top four have in addition to those: awards and big media. He doesn’t have a moustache anymore, either. (But he was one of People’s “50 Most Beautiful”)

4. Travis Tritt - Tritt has taken his place among the big boys. Another great album, number ones, TV movie, a Grammy, three CMA's. He has it all, and it’s all thanks to that bitter little song he wrote when he was getting a divorce - “Here’s a Quarter." If he can just keep his mouth shut about Billy Ray Cyrus, he might make it higher next year.

3. Vince Gill - Vince has surpassed the challengers. He may not be the most country-sounding guy; you just don’t hear a tenor like him every day. But here’s what he is: six CMA’s (two for best male vocalist, two for songwriting), two Grammys, and the title of best all-around person in the country music world. He is loved by all, and that makes his deserved victories all the sweeter. He is also one of the very best instrumentalists in the country spotlight.

2. Billy (shiver) Ray (gag) Cyrus - Oh, he’s just great. The only member of the top five who can’t write songs (the verdict is out on whether or not he can write). You know how I feel on this one. All I can say is this: biggest debut album of any format in the history of music; somewhere around 8 million copies sold; a CMA his first time out and a Grammy nomination for Best Record. He could not be denied the #2 spot... no matter how hard I tried.

1. Garth Brooks - But thank the Lord that there is still the Garthmeister. We’ll see if Billy Ray can stick around and sell almost thirty million copies of five albums as Garth has (so far). Singing, songwriting, and performing - he does it all like no other. He owns number one - on the radio, in the record stores, in the media, in the bookstores, and, of course, in the auditoriums.No single person can ever match what Garth Brooks has done in and for country music. And all at just over thirty years old. Well, there it is, the 1993 edition of the Whistlin’ Dixie Top Ten. Although my top ten probably doesn’t match yours, you gotta like all these artists for putting out some outstanding products. It’s been quite a year.

"Imports are Girls, We're Women." - Class of '77 Females

1973 continued from page 7

School, a boarding school that recently became coed. He believes that most of the men “were not conscious of any sexism or chauvinism that [they] manifested at that time, in light of what is known now.” He recalls his freshman year as a series of broadcasted stereo messages across dorms to girls, major water fights, and caravans of streakers. “I remember the women as being more mature than we were. They were also independent, self-confident, and extremely bright."

Although the standard of admission to Davidson in 1973 was higher for women than for men, many of the new females felt that some of the faculty made the transition more difficult for the school. Bumgarner believes that “some of the faculty seemed to have reservations at first.” Elizabeth Simpson disagrees. “I never felt that I had any problems with the faculty to feel included.” According to Jonas, “Some professors were reluctant to help us fit in, but overall we proved that we deserved to be there.” Despite the initial problems, the women of the class of 1977 are generally happy with their decision to go to Davidson. According to Andrews, “It’s given me a lot of pride and pleasure to be a member of that class.” Bumgarner agrees. She says, “After twenty years, I can say I made the right decision.”

Most of the women agree that the males also struggled with the transition to coeducation. Although Andrews notes that there was a lot of attention taken away from men and given to women, Mark Armstrong believes that the men were excited about women joining them at Davidson. “I always thought about how difficult it was for the women with 1100 men hanging around them all of the time.” Laurie Bumgarner’s husband, Kenneth (class of 1976), agrees. “In general, men were very happy that women showed up.” Laurie laughs at this, and says, “Well, we stifled some of their perversion.”

Women continued from page 6

Once, however, she met the bite of faculty conservatism. Upon finding her quarter grade in one class to be a ‘B’ when she knew she had clearly earned an ‘A’, she confronted the professor. He admitted plainly that yes, she had earned the higher grade, but that he simply “didn’t give ‘A’s to girls.” Shortly thereafter, in 1956, Davidson hired its first female faculty member, Dr. Carolyn MacBrayer. She had taught psychology at Queens College. At her first faculty meeting, an old bottle found during the restoration of Eumenean Hall was exhibited to the faculty. One professor was heard to remark that he never expected to live long enough to see the day when, at a Davidson College faculty meeting, there should be a whiskey bottle at one end of the table and a woman at the other.

Attitudes concerning women changed slowly, but by 1968 the floodgates had been opened with the election of Samuel R. Spencer Jr. to the College presidency. Dr. Spencer pushed for rigorous self-examination of the entire structure of Davidson, and established advisory commissions on issues including coeducation. They recommended in May 1969, that Davidson “become coeducational at the earliest appropriate time...” The faculty soon decided to accept thirty female students for the next year under a Student Exchange Program with eight other schools including Agnes Scott, Winthrop, Randolph-Macon, and others. These women dormed across main street in the Grey House, now the Admissions Building. The Trustees moved in 1971 to accept wives of students, and the wives and daughters of faculty and staff members, as students working toward actual degrees. The next year, the faculty recommended coeducation at Davidson as “desirable and feasible” and “imperative.” The vote stood at sixty to six, and by May 1972 the Trustees accepted the recommendation. The first full-fledged female students arrived the next year. According to historian Mary Beaty, applications had declined in years previous to coeducation, but the number reached record highs within two years after the Trustees voted for it. By 1977, the school was well on its way to having one third of its student body female, and later that percentage was raised by the trustees to 45%.

Now, women have equal status as students and community members at Davidson, with the exception of having their own fraternities. Women have proven to be ample students and campus leaders, having claimed valedictory, Rhodes Scholar, and SGA honors, and have filled many positions in the faculty. They didn’t faint, collapse, become invalids, or melt as the editorialist of 1888 would have had us believe; no, in fact they have held up quite well.

This article relied heavily on the late Mary D. Beaty’s A History of Davidson College, and from interviews with Lura Owen, wife of Dr. Kenneth Owen ’57. As always I am deeply in gratitude to College Archivist Dr. C.G. Davidson and his assistant Frances Overcash ’91. Go visit them sometime on the north side of the library, second floor, next to the Rare Book Room, and pick up on some Davidsoniana before you graduate.

1993-94 Hall Counselors
Anna Gray Anderson
Ben Balsley
Pat Barrett
Steve Brackbill
Sean Callahan
Alex Crumbley
Phoebe Dean
Elizabeth Fleming
Eleanor Hatcher
Chris Hood
Frank Ingram
Derek Judson
Lorie Logan
Wendy McHugh
Erik McMichael
John Murchison
Scott Yarborough
Kimberley Nance
Josh Neubauer
Sarah Orsbon
Adriana Ortega
Brian Parrish
John Philpott
John Ramey
Christy Rikard
John Rogers
Eric Rosenbach
Ellen Sprinkle
Ryan Thomas
Holt Vaughan
John Walsh
Maria Whitehead
Rachel Worlds