TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993 - 9 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS

Gull's Nest ... Bill Gullan

A solution to drop/add

I just had my first experience with the wonderful drop/add process. I’d always heard people complain about it, but we
all tend to whine about little things, so I thought it couldn’t be as bad as everyone said. It is.

Why should people who waste their afternoons sitting in a hallway be rewarded? Why should athletes who have practice be
prevented from getting a good spot in line? Why should it begin after classes start, seemingly guaranteeing that half the
student body falls behind on the first day? Why aren’t cigarettes sold in Chambers?

Assuming that we’re not going to scrap the whole system, this is how it should be done:

1. Classes should be filled based on need. People who need to fulfill the core must be permitted to do
so, and those with the least amount of time left to take a mandatory class should be given first consideration.
Also, declared majors should receive first crack at taking the classes they need in their majors. The charmingly egalitarian “first
come, first serve” system is inefficient and unfair.

2. I was only given three classes. I couldn’t have cared less what my fourth would turn out to be,
but I needed to sign up for something. I'll bet that a majority of drop/add attendees were there not because
they did not receive four. Everyone should be given four classes on their schedules. If their choices don’t fit, give
them a random fourth class, either in their major or in a subject they are required to take for the
core. Had I been given any fourth class, I would not have gone to drop/add. Neither would many others, and
that would alleviate the chaos that ensues starting from 2 p.m. (not to mention once the doors open).

3. Offer more classes. The student body is bigger. It’s logical that more courses are needed. I wouldn’t even mind
if Dean Terry gave a seminar on what it’s like to spend a weekend with the Clintons, or if a
“Hug a Tree with Al Gore” class is offered, or even if a “How to Jump on the Atlanta Braves
Bandwagon” is in next year’s catalog. We need more classes.

This is how I would fix drop/add. The day itself is a nightmare, as is the result: people with screwed
up schedules and nasty dispositions.

A few rules for newcomers

Tony continued from page 7

Rule #4. Freshmen must carry around a light in order to provide one if an upperclassman should require a smoke.

Rule #9. Freshmen are prohibited from ambulating upon the grass.

Rule #17. If an upperclassman is of shorter stature and cannot reach his cupboard, the freshman shall lie and act
as a step for said upperclassman.

Rule #24. Freshmen cannot date other freshmen. (Well, Davidson was all male back then.)

It’s too bad, though, that times have changed. I wouldn’t mind if a few of these rules came back just
for a little while. And to the freshmen, don’t worry about the fact that we can easily spot that y’all
are freshmen. You too will be able to spy on and smirk at the next freshman class. Trust me, you’re
not wearing some big placard that screams “FRESHMAN!!!” but if it were up to me, you would.

Write For the Opinions Section

Call Alex on 2nd West at -6178 And help fill this space!

As I See It... Tom Norwood

Heaven, Hell, and hubris: tips for the frosh

Figured I’d write some tips for freshmen.

1) Transfer ... just kidding.

2) Don’t be cocky. Don’t brag about making __ on your SATs, being on SGA in high school, or being
all-conference in your sport. Nobody cares; everyone here did those things. Just because you were the greatest thing since cruise
control in your hometown doesn’t mean you’re anything at Davidson. This tip is especially important to those of you who
are looking to join fraternities or eating houses. If you’re arrogant when you meet upperclassmen you may never get a
bid.

3) Men: Don’t break up with your girlfriend back home. Chances are you are not going to be able to
find a new one at Davidson. I broke up with mine my freshman year, and I still haven’t found a
new one after two years at Davidson.

4) Women: Break up with your boyfriend back home. Davidson is heaven for girls. Don’t waste your weekendsgoing to see
your old flame when you can pick and choose from the hundreds of guys who broke up with their hometown
honeys and are now lonely.

5) Do your work in the afternoon so you can go out at night. Your freshman year is the only
time you will be able to get away with this. After this year, you will waste your afternoons playing Sega
and watching soap operas. Of course, most of you are already doing this.

6) Memorize the number at Domino’s pizza. It is 896-8007, not 892-8007. That is Dr. Larry Ligo’s number and while
he is a very nice man, he and his family rue the day they were given a number that should
logically not be theirs.

7) Coats and ties and Sunday dresses are not required at the Korner pub.

8) Wake up early enough to shower before class. Your professors notice who took the time to look presentable and
who is still wearing the same clothes they wore last night.

9) Don’t let your dirty clothes pile build up too high. If you do so, you will have to wear
dirty underwear for two days while the laundry is sort of washing your clothes.

10) Don’t write for The Davidsonian. Your writing will become a mass of clichés and contradictions, and your freshman composition
teacher will never speak to you again.

Seay Rations ... Nathan Seay

Men are what? Men are dogs? Dr. Holland has informed me that there is actually a group of people trying
to stop the negative stereotyping of pigs in the world. You know: pigs are usually portrayed as lazy compulsive eaters
who have bad personal hygiene. Think what you will of the PC movement, but those people do have a point.
Every day, women all over the world insult and degrade swine (yes, insult the barnyard animals) in their cries of,
“Men are pigs!”

Think about it. What do men have in common with pigs? We like the occasional roll in the mud, we
eat almost anything, and most of the time we smell bad. But the comparison ends there. After all, pigs are
extremely intelligent animals. I beg of you to leave the pig alone, but I understand if you want to associate
men with some other member of the animal kingdom. Thus, I put forth Nathan Seay’s Allegory of the Dog. Read
it, and then you may change your tune:

*Picture a long table surrounded by several chairs. In these chairs sit women of every imaginable type. Before each woman
sits different meals. Dozens of dogs circle around the women at the table, drooling and begging for some food. Occasionally,
a dog is lucky enough to receive a bit of food from one of the women at the table. After
his treat, he usually goes scampering off to tell his friends of his feat. The dogs aren’t complete idiots. The
dogs pay more attention to the girls who indiscriminately distribute their food. Some of them insist on hovering around girls
who never give anything away. I guess those dogs prefer smelling the food to actually tasting it. Invariably, it’s the
dogs who least deserve the food who most often get it. (It seems that dogs who have learned to kick
a ball around with their paws have no trouble getting food.) The dogs who most deserve it have to suffer
through dry times.

Methods of getting food vary. Some dogs nuzzle the girls’ hands and act friendly. It works for some dogs to
simply act aloof. Others simply look pathetic and hope for a girl to take pity on him and throw him
a piece. This maneuver is typically known as the “sympathy chuck.”

I don’t want to completely humiliate dogs. There are some differences between the dogs in the Allegory and your run-of-the-mill
spaniel. The Allegory dogs aren’t happy with the same old dog food every day. These dogs want variety. Every woman
at the table has a slightly different dish. The meals range from bland starfish to spicy hot beaver. These dogs
want to taste as many different dishes as possible. The idea of eating the same stuff day after day is
a scary prospect. However, the fact that one gets to eat every day is attractive, no matter how bland the
food is.

That’s it for my humble attempt to correct the bad name that pigs have been given by those who hate
men. I hope it’s obvious to everyone that man’s best friend has more in common with man than pigs. Now
if I could only figure out how they lick their... oh, never mind.
