Che B aNiDsonian

SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993 NUMBER 11

Composer Babbitt premieres piece at weekend festival

By Carrie Blackburn

The culmination of many months of hard work resulted in the Milton Babbitt music festival this past weekend. Milton Babbitt,
a composer in Davidson’s music history textbook, has been called the greatest living American composer. Many Davidsonians combined efforts to
collect around $10,000 for the event. Music Professor Dr. Mauro Botelho feels that “getting this is a major coup for
Davidson.”

Although having Milton Babbitt speak is enough of an honor, the Brentano String Quartet chose Davidson for the world premiere
of Babbitt’s String Quartet No. 6. As a pioneer in the world of music, Milton Babbitt has emphasized a more
rational approach which realigned much of the western musical tradition and inspired two generations of composers. He also helped “give
the composer and the theorist a position of respectability within the university,” adds Botelho. Babbitt taught at Princeton University for
33 years where he established a real rapport with students.

Despite the many other accolades heaped on Babbitt, “it’s going to be his music that is going to be his
legacy,” predicts Botelho, who also feels Babbitt is “the most important American composer alive.” The pooled efforts and resources of
the Music Department, the Friends of the Arts at Davidson, the Davidson College Concert Series, and the College Union enticed
world-renowned musicians to come. Apparently, Babbitt, an influential composer, still agreed to appear at Davidson for much less than he
really deserves because of his love of students.

Photo by Caney Rigers
Composer Milton Babbitt lectures Thursday night as part of last weekend's music festival. Page 11.

Student Government barely passes resolution calling for coed frosh housing

By Mandy Curtis

After a heated debate within the student government last Tuesday, the council passed a resolution for freshman coeducational housing. The
recommendation, written up by junior president By Rudell, was accepted by the council in a vote of 18-12. Rudell’s proposal
reads: “Let it be resolved that, on this day, November 16, 1993, the Student Government Association recommends the conversion of
all freshman dorms into coed-by-floor housing.” In addition, Rudell’s resolution calls for the implementation of this plan for the next
year’s incoming freshmen, the Class of 1998.

Why the call for change? Number one on the list of reasons for implementing a new housing system for freshmen
is that “Davidson College aspires to improve the main goal behind the change,” which would enable males and females of
the freshman class to form “brother-sister” relationships between the sexes, according to Rudell. The written resolution claims that “initial contact
between males and females occurs on Patterson Court and in classrooms,” which are not environments conducive to forming friendships. Justifications
for why coed freshman dorms should be instituted include that: dormitory cohabitation among freshmen has occurred in the past; females
live in Belk in the summer; all students have access to all dorms; and nearly everyone has lived in a
coed dorm at one point or another.

The debate in the Senate

Tuesday’s debate within the Senate brought to light many strong points for and against the plan. The vote was by
no means a unanimous decision, with 18 for it, 12 against, and 1 abstention. In addition, there was no consistency
in the way the senators voted.After long wait, Ben & Jerry's arrives
By Susan Warren

Davidson’s own Ben and Jerry’s opened its doors to the public this past Wednesday. The store is located at 202
South Main Street, one block from the Post Office. It is open Sunday to Thursday from noon to 10:00 p.m.,
and Friday and Saturday from noon until midnight.

The Ben and Jerry’s atmosphere is delightful, with cows happily grazing on the walls, reminding the consumer of only the
purest ingredients in all of their ice cream. There are many “euphoric” flavors to choose from, including the always popular
Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough. In addition to ice creams, low-fat yogurt and nonfat ices are served. Sheets containing nutrition information
can be obtained on the low-fat yogurt. For those with a heartier appetite, shakes, brownies, and a twenty-scoop sundae known
as the “Vermonster” are offered.

Owner and manager Phyllis Schultz is very pleased with business so far. This store is Schultz’s third; she owns two
Ben and Jerry’s in Charlotte as well. She decided to open a store in Davidson because she “wanted to have
a store as a part of the community.” She hopes her store will become “a gathering place for people where
they can see their friends and have a pleasant place to be.”

Town Administrator Leamon Brice spoke positively about Ben and Jerry’s arrival to Davidson, stressing how wonderful it is “to have
a national firm with their reputation.” The store is employing Davidson students as well as local residents of the town.
Applications are still being accepted, though Schultz hesitates to hire college students, because students tend to leave town during the
holidays.

Photo by Amy Tpithenen
Ben & Jerry's owner Phyllis Schultz serves senior Alexia Gregory a dish of Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough ice cream on
Saturday.

By Katherine Hash

Davidson College hopes to cash in on Charlotte’s movement north by planning a new, profitable development—an upscale hotel, day care
center, apartments, and retail shops. At the same time, the college can maintain control over its surroundings. Over a period
of years, the college has acquired over 25 acres of land off of Griffith Street between the I-77 ramp to
Statesville and Jetton Street which it intends to develop into an attractive, high-quality combination of commercial, retail, and residential areas.

For years, the college has owned five acres in this area, which is situated directly across from the Exxon station
on the way into town from the interstate. Until recent years, most of this land was undeveloped.

See Lot on page 2

THIS WEEK
NEWS: With B & E closed, where are students to go? Page 5.
OPINIONS: More humanity, humor, and hubris in your favorite section. Pages 8-10.
SPORTS: Davidson's pro athletes. Page 14.
ARTS: Scott hated Remains of the Day. Page 12.
Rachel & Wilcox sittin' in a tree...s-i-n-g-i-n-g. Page 13.
First Class Mail U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

Profile of Richard Howell. Page 14.
