OPINIONS 8 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

“Each fall some 13 million students enroll in American colleges. By the time that these students graduate, very few colleges
have met their need for all-round development. Instead, by precept and example, universities have taught them that ‘all rules are
unjust’ and ‘all preferences are principled;’ that justice is simply the will of the stronger party; that standards and values
are arbitrary. Although university leaders speak of the self-evident virtues of diversity, it is not at all obvious why it
is necessary to a first-rate education.”
-from Illiberal Education by Dinesh D’Souza

Dittos, Dinesh. The national trend in “higher” education that declares the deep need for “diversity” and multiculturalism has hit at
Davidson. Over the past few years, the call for “diversity” has been growing here at a fair rate. Some of
the measures have been tolerable, such as the core requirement of “cultural diversity.” Most of these classes are non-politicized, serious
studies of non-Western civilizations; they enhance the educational experience of students who desire a liberal arts education (just in case
any of you wondered, the liberal here is derived from liberalis, referring to persons who have been liberated—it has nothing
to do with the Socialist, FDR-worshipping political leaders or their cronies). An objective view of another culture is a good
means toward the end of a liberal (small “l”) education, and a liberal (small “l”) education is the primary end
of this institution.

Near the end of last year, and again on October 26, the political powers of the student body, under somewhat
spurious leadership, effectively declared war on the very foundation upon which Davidson College is built, Christianity and Christian leadership. Last
year, when the SGA asked for a change in the Statement of Purpose, this was just a step toward the
goal of Liberal (not a small “l”) education. The SGA resolution on October 26, which calls for a change in
the Trustee requirements, is a blatant attempt to Liberalize Davidson further. The Trustees are one of the only powerful Conservative
Christian elements remaining at Davidson to balance the trend toward pure Liberalism and a flagrantly political college agenda.

In addition, one cannot forget that Davidson was founded upon Christian principles and remains affiliated with the Presbyterian Church. That
is one of the elements of the college that separates it from many other schools. It also gives it a
static, unified purpose toward which to strive. Educational trends (such as the one mentioned in the above quote) change, but
this purpose will not; it will stand, a beacon through time.

If I were to amend the policy at all, it would be changed to the following: “All persons elected as
Trustees shall be active members of a Christian church or Jewish synagogue.” My reason for this is that Judaism is
the religion from which Christianity sprung. They believe in the same God, and they hold the same morals, ideals, and
ethics; as the forerunners of Christianity, their insights would be greatly helpful in coming to Christian decisions in keeping with
the ideals of the college.

SGA Vice-President Alice Spivey was one of three who voted against the resolution. When I asked her why, she gave
me the following statement: “I came to Davidson knowing that it is a Christian school and not a totally secular
one where ‘anything goes.’ Christianity is one of the main tenets upon which Davidson was founded, and there are some
traditions which are too important to abandon. Davidson is a private Christian school and does not have to embrace the
‘p.c.’ ideals of a public school.”

Why are people asking that the policy be changed? Ask anyone who voted for the measure, and they will tell
you that it is to be fair to the non-church-attending students, who will, upon graduation, become alumni. This primarily emotional
argument is highly fallacious—the Trustees should represent the...

See Garrison on page 9

Alex Crumbley

Ignore the left-wing nuts.

To all of the high school seniors who are considering Davidson College for their next four years, I would like
to say a few words. I know Davidson has its drawbacks, like offensive fraternity flyers and nudity on stage and
a student government that’s antagonistic toward Christianity, but I would like to ask you to ignore those left-wing nuts for
a minute and hear what Davidson’s really all about—false progress.

You see, we at Davidson really want to be a national institution like other schools up North with which we
compete in the college rankings. So we make a BSC and a COMA and a FLAG, and they look great
on Davidson’s resume when the U.S. News rankers look at us in comparison to Williams and Amherst. With seemingly the
same mindset and environment as those schools, and our location in the lovely South where it’s eighty degrees in November,
Davidson is hard to beat as a college choice. But don’t be fooled! We don’t really...Believe all that intellectual mess
about inclusiveness and mind-broadening and art, and whatever else we say we believe in. We’re proud to have alumni write
in and say that Equus, our offensive mainstage production, was little more than an unnecessary display of nudity. You see,
we try not to cross the line into the artsy-fartsy-pansy way of thinking that those Northern schools promote. In order
to stay P.C., we repress reality so much here that our students can’t even handle a little nudity on stage.
You know what? We like it that way!

Also, we like to invite people from all over the globe to come here and study. This helps our international
awareness statistic, especially because the people we invite here are godless heathens who don’t even love Jesus. And since they
aren’t Christian, of course, they can’t make decisions for the good of a Presbyterian school, so there’s no way we
would let them be Trustees. Yep, that means we would never even let Jesus on our board of Trustees (he
was a Jew, wasn’t he?).

Oh, and how could I forget our terrifying fraternity flyers? Last week, one of the Greek monsters put a flyer
around campus that made fun of a very serious topic around here, our phone books. In case you didn’t know,
the cover of the Davidson phone book is a very good indicator of the ideological climate of the college. This
year, we’re oppressing women. Last year, it was Marilyn Ambroise, but I think she transferred to Williams, so we had
to pick on someone else. SPE made a flyer for a party that was a spoof of the controversy surrounding
the babe on the cover of the phone book, and, of course, no one got the joke. We try to
recruit students who are so P.C. that they can’t even go to the bathroom without being offended. And we seem
to have succeeded.

So, class of 1998, please understand that all those silly women’s issues committees and minority affairs groups are just a
front for a college with some people so caught up in their religions, whether it’s the Christian religion, or the
P.C. movement (almost a religion to some), that they can’t appreciate what each other has to offer. So please come
here. We promise we'll stamp out the offensive theater productions, even if they are the best Davidson’s ever had, and
we’ll keep those heathens off the Trustee board, too. Yes, sir! There’s more to the South than just pretty weather,
there’s good old-fashioned backwardness. Don’t miss out on your chance to come here and be chastised for trying to broaden
your mind!

Will boys be boys (or men)?

Flyer continued from page 7

Women as sexual objects is not new to this statistic. Did the issue include input from women? Or did they
not see the connection between respect and portrayal? Why was the flyer put up without the approval of the co-sponsoring
women’s houses but with their names? I cannot know, and I will not speculate. The other, (in my opinion) more
appalling possibility is that the creators of the flyer knew exactly what they were communicating. What are the implications of
posting a party flyer featuring a half-naked woman only in men’s bathroom stalls? I leave it to the reader to
continue this line of reasoning.

Perhaps even more disturbing than the possibility that a few men created this sexist and offensive flyer is the fact
that the flyers stayed up for days. Hundreds of caring, intelligent, thoughtful men use the bathrooms in their dorms each
and every day, some of whom I know, care about, and trust. Why did the flyers not come down? Was
it fear of destroying property, hesitancy to take a stand, or just lack of thought about the issues at stake?
Or does something happen to the brain when the pants are down? (The Dean Rusk Program, for one, seems to
think not). This would be a good time for the “boys will be boys” (“men will be men?”) line of
rationale. With apologies to those who think otherwise, I simply cannot accept this reasoning because it ignores the intelligence and
awareness of too many men and side-steps the issue of personal accountability.

I don’t know exactly why the flyers were posted, why they stayed up so long, or what the intentions were.
I do know that regardless of the intent, those flyers join a chorus of cultural messages by which we are
affected in more ways than we know. I don’t know who was responsible, and I hope that no apology will
rise from semi-sincere regret. I do hope, and demand, that this never happens again on Davidson’s campus. If we say
that we are about “mutual trust and respect,” we must live with that mutuality and respect constantly in mind or
we risk nothing less than our integrity.

Sincerely,
Letitia M. Campbell
