THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 - 3

Alumni occupational fair suggests career opportunities
By Susan Warren

The harsh reality of life after Davidson is quickly approaching for many students. The Alumni Relations Department is trying to
make the future a little brighter by sponsoring events such as the Second Annual Alumni Occupational Fair, which took place
Tuesday afternoon, September 14, in the Chambers Gallery.

The Careers Office planned the event by choosing young alumni from different career fields in the Charlotte area. Most students
at the fair were upperclassmen. The students found the fair to be well organized and helpful. Junior Mary McCrory enjoyed
the fair, saying she was “more comfortable there than at a regular job fair” because only Davidson students were there.
Complaints about the fair included the hopes of more careers being represented in the future, such as law.

The alumni were eager to talk to students about their jobs, their major at Davidson, and possible summer internships. They
were also eager to give students advice on what to do to get hired. One alum claimed she was hired
straight out of Davidson because she had shown diversity—she had maintained her GPA while playing sports. Her major and her
summer jobs were not a major asset.

Many of the alumni praised the Career Office, encouraging students to take advantage of the personality tests, computer programs, and
alumni networking that the Careers Office offers. This fair is only one of the many activities the Career Office plans
for Davidson students. Upcoming events include a pre-law society dinner meeting, speakers, and afternoon sessions about what one can do
with their major. The Career Office publishes a newsletter, provides counseling, suggests internships, and much more.

"Photo by Katie Tobin
The Careers Office sponsors activities such as the Alumni Occupational Fair held Tuesday, September 14 in Chambers Gallery. The office,
located in the Julia Johnston house, up from the Admissions Office, is eager to help though only fifty percent of
students currently take advantage of their services."

Consultants finish initial study of campus life
By Leigh Rawdon

Two professional consultants spent three days, Wednesday to Friday, asking questions and collecting answers about the campus feelings for a
new student Union. Representatives from MPC and Associates, a firm based in Washington D.C. which does architectural and legal consulting
for many colleges and universities, took notes and recorded the thoughts and opinions of students, faculty, administration, as well as
town community members.

After listening to the college’s concerns, Gail Biddison and Tom Hier will make a recommendation to the Facilities Planning Committee
about the needs Davidson has for a new union. This committee will then make a recommendation to Dr. Kuykendall based
on the consultant’s report, which is expected at the end of the semester, combined with that of the Union Planning
Committee, chaired by Dr. Sally McMillen. The next step involves the Board of Trustees. Assuming they then approve the unknown
recommendation, the school would take steps to collect the funds to finance the new or renovated facilities.

Dr. John Kelton, Director of Institutional Research and Chair of the Facilities Planning Committee, says, “Yes, it is possible that
some current students would see the results.” But he emphasizes the uncertainty of the process which depends on financial contributions.

Location and function were two of the primary concerns addressed at the meeting with the SGA and Union Board Wednesday
night. Students mentioned a variety of places on campus which would be accessible for study breaks from the library, for
time between classes, and for social options. Many voiced the need for improved student office facilities and increased comfortable study
areas. The consultants “will pull all viewpoints together to inform those who are talking about a Union regarding programs, activities,
the role in social and academic life,” says Kelton. He encourages anyone interested in contributing ideas to submit their suggestions
to his office on the first floor of Chambers.

TV lounges' latest craze happens on "Melrose Place"
Students seem to watch popular show because of different lifestyle it portrays.
By Lexy Devane

There is a question plaguing the minds of many. Why has the number of Davidson students spending their Wednesday nights
watching "Melrose Place" reached epic proportions? For those who are not familiar with this 90210-for-the-mature-viewing-audience, "Melrose Place" surrounds the turmoil
and triumphs of eight twenty-somethings living in a trendy apartment complex in Los Angeles. Nothing too out of the ordinary
for the ‘92-‘93 premiere season packed with other such situational shows. Why then did "Melrose Place" earn a permanent place
in the pop icon culture when a similar show, "The Heights", with such a nifty theme song/topten hit, “How Do
You Talk To An Angel,” got canceled after its first showing? What is it with "Melrose Place"? One recurring answer
to why "Melrose" is particularly popular revolves around sex, mainly in the romantic relationship between roommates and best friends Allison
(Courtney Thornton-Smith) and Billy (Andrew Shue). Many Davidson students say this couple is the reason the show has such a
wide viewing audience; they represent to many an "ideal relationship." Kate Evans says, “I will never forget how fast the
library cleared and lounges filled at the season finale of ‘Melrose’ during exam week last year. Of course, I was
part of the rush because Billy and Allison were going to finally hook up.” Erika Gromleski agrees, stating, “Basically, the
reason people watch "Melrose Place" is to watch Andrew Shue. Andrew Shue walk. Andrew Shue talk. Andrew Shue breathe....”

A majority of students watch the show because it contrasts to their lives at Davidson. “The characters on 'Melrose Place’
do not lead more realistic or necessarily better lives than the average student. However, they...” states Allison Sable. She continues,
“The show makes me feel like my life isn’t all that stressful. For example, during last week’s episode, there was
a jealous boyfriend, a psychotic ex-boyfriend, an attempted rape, the beginnings of a divorce, an adulterous affair, a firing, and
a tramp hitting on another tramp’s man. Maybe my huge calculus test isn’t all that bad after all.” Rhett Ingerick
agrees with Sable because “it is the one thing in my life that does not require me to think. Quality
and meaningful lines such as ‘I’ll do all the work, I always do’ - and no, they are not talking
about their careers - are a nice contrast from the literature that the average Davidson student reads for class.”

Even Patterson Court has followed suit in the craze. Last year Warner Hall hosted a "90210"/"Melrose Place" party. This year
the Kappa Sig apartment is packed every Wednesday at 9 p.m. with a plethora of young women accompanying its inhabitants.
An anonymous brother present at all these gatherings says, “The reason the show has its appeal is because it plays
on our age group’s interest in sex. The cast is full of attractive individuals leading lives more exciting than the
average Davidson student’s."

School will see improvements: phones & lights

Installing Voice Mail
Voice continued from page 1

...of people called frequently. This feature will save professors, advisors, and sports coaches a lot of time by eliminating the
need to relay messages. One of Davidson’s main attractions is its helpful and friendly atmosphere, according to Stephenson. He emphasizes
that the move to a computerized system does not represent a move away from this spirit. He hopes that the
system will take some of the time and hassle out of “mundane tasks” like taking and returning messages so that
secretaries, professors, and administrators can spend more time helping people. Vivian Davis will continue to operate the college switchboard, and
callers will always have access to a human voice. The college is very pleased with the Octel system which was
chosen from several bids and is being purchased on a five-year lease program. An Octel representative stressed that bidding was
very competitive and that Davidson got “a very good deal.” The system will be installed between October 15 and 19
while students are on Fall Break. The Campus Chronicle contributed to this article.

Eliminating Darkness
Lights continued from page 1

...women. Although 85% of the participants stated that they felt safe when walking on campus at night, 56% expressed fear
that they could become a victim of some sort of crime. When asked how this issue affected their decisions to
come to Davidson, 47% responded that it was either a “big factor” or “considered.” Approved changes include the addition of
new lampposts in areas such as the section between Oak and Elm Rows, the road in front of Baker Sports
Complex, and the walkway next to Richardson Dorm. Added floodlights will service the large area in front of Chambers Building.
The college will also use lights already in place around Richardson Field to increase lighting for the track and basketball
courts at night. Orr admits that he is unsure of an exact date for the completion of this work. He
says that the physical plant is currently involved in the repair of damages caused by an electrical storm at the
beginning of the semester. It can devote only a limited number of its staff members to the project at this
time but is working to make the changes as soon as possible.

News Staff Meeting
Monday Night, 8:00 p.m., Wilson Room
Everyone is welcome
