8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993

Pithy Irreverence...

Editor’s Note: Due to Mr. Groundhog's recent prominence in the news, The Davidsonian thought it would be pertinent and informative to talk with him. The following interview took place in the middle of a prairie somewhere in Nebraska on February 2.

Davidsonian: Mr. Groundhog, you’ve been all over the news recently, having features on all the major networks, your name in all the major newspapers. How can you explain your celebrity status?

Mr. Groundhog: It’s publicity, kid! Publicity! Do you know what groundhogs do?

Davidsonian: I don’t.

Mr. Groundhog: That’s the way we like it. You see, nobody really knows what groundhogs naturally do. Before we came up with the ad campaign, we were just generic rodents. But through publicity, we groundhogs created a whole industry. This has gotten way bigger than meteorology. I have a day named after me. How many humans do you know with days named after them? Even Washington and Lincoln have had to consolidate into “President’s Day.” I have a great life. I have to work one day a year. One. Actually, it’s more like fifteen seconds. I pop up, look for my shadow, smile for the cameras, and go back inside. Of course, this increases the pressure a lot. But, hey, I’m a groundhog. That’s my job.

Davidsonian: About this “seeing your shadow” business - how could you possibly see your shadow with all the TV camera high beams trained on you?

Mr. Groundhog: Well, you see, that’s a rather delicate matter. It’s related to instinct and the like. Very complicated to explain.

Davidsonian: Basically, then, it’s a sham (or scam or whatever).

Mr. Groundhog: Not really. No more than professional wrestling. That’s the peculiar thing about you humans - you’ll believe most anything, especially if it’s cute and innocuous.

Davidsonian: On a different note, what do you think about all the environmental devastation going on? Do you see yourself becoming extinct?

Mr. Groundhog: I think it’s tragic, what’s happening to our animal brothers. But looking at it realistically, it’s their own fault. Species die off because they aren’t able to adapt in this fast-changing modern world. Know how to avoid extinction? Marketing. Advertising. Give people a reason to want you around. Groundhogs will never be extinct, because all of America looks to us at the beginning of every February to determine the course of Winter. The Bald Eagle may soon be a thing of the past, but we’ll still be here.

Davidsonian: Any advice for the little groundhogs out there?

Mr. Groundhog: Well, I guess it would be this: you have to find your niche. Everybody’s got something to offer. Look at me. I started out as an insignificant little rodent, rather low on the food chain, and now I’m one of the more important mammals in America. Just goes to show you - you can make of yourself really whatever you like.

Good Advice for Underclassmen
By Alex Crumbley

Second semester, sophomore year. Time to choose a major. When we chose to come to Davidson, we made a decision that we knew would determine much about the rest of our lives. Then, many of us felt the stress that accompanies a life-changing decision. Two years later, Davidson underclassmen feel a similar ultimatum approaching. If you’re not stressed about it, good for you. If you are, listen.

At a time when we are at the jumping off point for the real world, it seems that our every action somehow will influence our success as adults. Our summer plans, our internships, the classes we take, the grades we make, everything seems so important because its consequences may win or lose our jobs or our graduate school acceptances; one blown test or missed interview may mar our pretty resumes and follow us for the rest of our lives. Is it any wonder we drink, put a comfortable fog in our brains, and forget about the pressure of our potent college years?

“My God,” you say, “I didn’t realize how much everything matters until Alex told me. My livelihood hangs in the balance, and I still can’t decide between ‘The Simpsons’ and ‘Wings.’ What about grad school, making money, supporting a family? What if I blow my test tomorrow? Will my salary decrease? What if I blow an exam? Will I work in the Outpost all my life?”

Before you scurry off to the Pub, finish reading. A few words of wisdom may ease your troubled minds. This sounds ludicrous, but something I read on the wall of a bathroom in Atlanta really makes sense, and it didn’t have any bad words or a telephone number with it. It said: “One can understand the desire of today’s undergraduates to leave college with a readily marketable skill. There is nothing wrong in this. But if our colleges and universities begin to turn out graduates with little else but this training, where will be found the statesmen, the philosophers, the moralists, and the thinkers, without whom no society can hope for greatness?”

I found

Put Yourself in Others’ B&W
Continued from page 7

Nelson’s face, it’s unfair to assume that no white people can dance or that no black people like Willie Nelson. What is even more unfair is to make assumptions about a person’s attitudes, capabilities, and preferences based on his race, or to make judgments about him when these assumptions don’t fit the so-called norm. We all have expectations based on race, but the difference between expectations and assumptions is that you treat someone in a certain way based on your assumptions, whereas expectations reflect merely the way you expect someone to act, not how you act towards him.

"The black person in the Union in the mostly-white group is not less than black or more than black..."

Being black is more than just skin color and racial identity. While many black people share a general culture, many also enjoy aspects of other cultures.Out later that Alan Pifer, whoever that is, wrote this in a book. Why someone chose to see "Alex" on page 9 shows white culture. The black person in the Union in the mostly-white group is not less than black or more than black because of his friends; you can hardly tell what he’s like just by the company he keeps. There’s nothing wrong with people enjoying aspects of other cultures. What is wrong is treating differently those who cross the lines. While it is important never to forget your culture and your past, there’s nothing wrong with hanging out with people from a different race or culture.

Gull's Nest ... Bill Gullan

An Interview with Mr. Groundhog

Mascots are Silly

When one chooses a college, he usually doesn’t select based on mascots. However, team names and mascots are extremely important. Many schools are known because of their mascots. In pro sports, team names are also a reason to root for a team. We've reached a crossroads in sports. Many college team names are politically incorrect, and many are just horribly boring. New professional franchises are struggling also with naming their teams.

While the Florida St. Seminoles still have a mounted brave who starts each game with a challenging spear thrust into the ground, and Illinois still retains its “Chief Illini” mascot, colleges from Dartmouth to Stanford have chosen to abandon their American Indian symbolism. This is because many activists claim that Indian names are somehow insulting and degrade Native Americans (it never occurred to them that “brave” is a compliment).

In the Stanford case, the administration made the mistake of holding a contest. While “Robber Barons” won (in honor of the school’s founder, Leland Stanford), they chickened out, of course, and opted for an innocuous “Cardinal” (are plural nicknames too politically incorrect?). Pro teams, however, can more easily resist the urge to conform because they must answer only to the fans, who generally aren’t as hyper-sensitive as college administrators and Indian activists. The Atlanta Braves’ fans chop away, as do Ted Turner and his lively new bride Jane “I’m Fonda communism.” Those (formerly) fearsome Washington Redskins are still the only NFL team to employ a full-time band, whose chubbily feathered musicians are a true insult to the fitness of most Native Americans.

But let us get away from politics and speak about quality. The best college mascots, the Syracuse Orangemen and the Richmond Spiders, are those uniquely identified with a specific school, especially if it is relevant such as in the case of the Virginia Cavaliers. This does result in comical oxymorons occasionally as in the case of the “Demon Deacons,” or the “Fighting Quakers” of Penn, or Notre Dame (which means “Our Lady” in French), whose athletes are urged to kill in her name.

Professional teams are best advised, on the other hand, to stay generic because they move around too much. Hence “Athletics” is just as appropriate to Oakland as it was to Philadelphia, but “Jazz” is not found in Utah. When they moved from New Orleans, there wasn’t enough room on the uniforms to write “Mormon Tabernacle Choir,” so they kept the name “Jazz.”

No offense, but the problem with the Davidson “Wildcats” is that it is too commonplace for a school so distinctive. There are simply too many, from Arizona to Villanova. “Wildcats” could work if our mascot did something unique, like the St. Joseph’s “Hawk,” who flaps his wings slowly for the entire game without a respite. There actually are some real Wildcats in the farthest reaches of North Carolina (I don’t mean BackStreet), while authentic “Tar Heels” are difficult to find, and, true, “Blue Devils” are probably limited to the hills of West Virginia.

However, there are many more distinctive names we could use. We could use animal names like the “Opossums” or the “Spider Monkeys.” We could use uniquely Davidson names like the “Courtsmen” (as in Patterson), or the “Ruskies.” I will leave the rest to you, but wouldn’t you love to see a team come trotting out onto the basketball court with “the Davidson CHAL’s” on their uniforms? I didn’t think so.

Frampton Rules... Chris Frampton

Rude Notes & Random Scribblings

Every once in a while I get an urge to write about something. Problem is, I’m not very good at it. Actually, that’s not a problem for me, because no matter what I write, I can fit it in The Davidsonian. However, it is a problem for you, because you have to read it. Well, actually, you don’t have to read it, you can just admire the sexy picture in the middle of my text. Anyway, this is going to be the last thing I can slip into the paper for about a year, so enjoy it. (If you haven’t read Andrew Spainhour’s column yet you probably don’t know that there’s some type of change going on at The Davidsonian. In fact, I bet Andrew talks about change at Davidson, not just the paper, over the past four years of his career. But, I haven’t read it, yet. I’ve just heard about it.)

Have you ever noticed there are a good deal of things going on at Davidson that you simply do not understand? Well, I have, but that may be just because I’m an idiot. For example, VAX. What the hell is this? I mean I know how to get my mail and look at this thing called Notes where you can write neat little messages to the whole campus and people can read ‘em. But what about these people who use it to call other people in places like Jerusalem? And why don’t they just use a phone? As for the rest of the VAX, forget it. Did you know there is a manual for the thing that is about three feet thick downstairs in Chambers? (This place is evidently called...

See "Rude Notes" on page 9