THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

What does the P.O. do with all the junk mail we trash?
By Jay Jennings

Every week Davidson College students can count on at least something in their mailbox because stores like Roses and Bi-Lo
send out flyers without fail. Although it is nice not to have an empty box, the flyers can be an
annoying waste. Most students take one look at the flyers and throw them out. The flyers are annoying not only
for students, but also for the workers at the Post Office. The workers must put the flyers in the boxes
even though they know that they will go right into the trash cans. Then, someone else must clean all of
the trash on the days after the flyers are delivered.

Elaine Connor, the Davidson postmaster, says that she has to put the flyers in the boxes because the companies have
paid for them. The companies generate money for the Post Office, thus it makes no sense to refuse the money.
She realizes that “most Davidson students will not look at flyers from Roses and Bi-Lo,” but if the companies send
4,000 flyers to the Post Office, they must be put in the corresponding boxes. Connor has recommended to some companies
that they should only send enough for the townspeople and not the students. She has been able to convince some
stores of this, but others continue to send them.

The flyers do have a purpose for some students. Some really use them to find out about discounts and available
products at the various stores. Shelly Helms, the manager of the Roses store in Cornelius, said that the flyers are
“Roses’ main way of advertising” and thus Roses needs to send them out to as many people as they can.
She feels that if only a handful of people come to the store because of the flyers, then they have
served their purpose. Roses has done surveys about their customers and use this information to determine where the flyers go.
Contrary to popular belief, there is some method to the madness of sending them to students.

Connor wants to set up some sort of recycling program for the flyers that are thrown away, but she does
not have the time nor the money to do this. She hopes that a Davidson student will be interested in
recycling to help combat the excess trash caused by the flyers. Thad Reece thinks the flyers “are like the consolation
prize in kindergarten. One kid wins the game, but everyone gets a prize.” If the flyers help someone find a
bargain, they serve a purpose for those who advertise. Or maybe the flyers can make some people feel better about
their mailbox.

Oxfam fast has lowest turnout ever
By Court McBryde

Davidson made an effort to participate in the Oxfam America fast on Tuesday, November 16; however, the turnout was seriously
lacking with a small number of eight students for dinner. Oxfam America, of the Oxford Committee for Famine Relief, was
founded in England in 1942. Oxfam is celebrating its 50th anniversary. Oxfam works with overseas organizations to assess local needs,
develop programs, and monitor results. A non-profit, international agency, Oxfam funds self-help development and disaster relief projects in Africa, Asia,
the Americas, and the Caribbean. Oxfam’s income comes from private sources; they neither seek nor accept U.S. government funds. Their
grants support local groups working to increase their food production or economic self-reliance.

Vail Commons hosted an Oxfam meal Tuesday evening for those students who participated in the fast.were fasting for the day.
No lunches were served at the Patterson Court eating houses and fraternities for the day. Members were invited to the
dinner at Vail of beans, rice, and cornbread. An employee of the Commons remarked that this year’s participation was the
lowest ever.

Melee We Just d We Want You To Join. Join McKee and be a part of the founding of Davidson’s
newest and best Eating House. And it's the only house for men and women. We are better because we offer
more. The best parties, the best food, and the best house. We don’t want to do it any other way.
Call today. McKee... Contact Samantha Hackett at 6602 or Jonathan Orr at 6353 to join. Do it Better.

Final Four Tickets According to the Davidson Athletic Department, 100-200 extra tickets are on sale for the final four soccer
championship. The tickets are available to students first, so call soon. Ticket Office - 2375.

SGA proposes dorm resolution

Belk continued from page 1

Even if the resolution is not acted upon for next year, “it makes a statement implying what direction Davidson should
go.” However, on the opposing standpoint, vice president Alice Spivey said that there were enough people against the resolution within
the SGA that there is no way it should be implemented next year. Spivey claimed that there are other ways
to improve gender relations without calling for cohabitation. BJ Rudell, of course, “feels pretty strongly about it.” He commented that
the senators who voted down the proposal were those “more traditional in values,” whereas those who supported the resolution want
“to break down the stereotypes of the sexes.” As Smith noted, the council was very split on the decision. The
sophomore representatives are prime examples of this: Bo Bartholomew voted it down; Kelly Cunningham affirmed it; while Nick Troiano abstained.

What happens now? According to Richard Terry of Residence Life, the resolution is exactly that: a resolution. Whether or not
the resolution will be acted upon for next fall is seriously in question. Due to the “sensitive nature” of the
controversy, Terry is hesitant to say that it will actually be implemented as it is “firmly stated.” Lacking in options,
the resolution may force freshmen into a situation that might not be in their best interest. However, Richard Terry commented
that this “starts the dialogue in a formal, civilized, and efficient way.” Inevitably, the resolution will go to the Dean
of Students for the final say in what will happen or not happen. However, according to Richard Terry, the Trustees
may even intervene in this matter due to the major impact it would have on the college from all perspectives.

Upon first glance at the resolution, Dean Terry simply stated, “I don’t agree with it.” He claimed that freshmen have
enough to deal with when entering college that they do not need another extra added stress as would be there
with cohabitation. Dean Terry also noted that the maturity level of freshmen, particularly of men, “is not ready for it
yet.” He thinks that in the long run there will be more friction between the sexes as a result of
coeducational housing for freshmen. When asked, “Where will it go now?” Dean Terry responded that he did not know. Says
Terry, “When I am officially presented with it, we will discuss it at the CCRL meeting.”

The Davidsonian Anyone interested in writing or editing should contact Harrison Roberts at -2148. Positions are available for next semester.
