Che Davidsonian
"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993
VOLUME LXXXIV NUMBER 22

Alumna Mystery Writer Establishes 2nd Scholarship
Patricia Cornwell '79 Surprises Campus by Endowing “Kay Scarpetta" Award
By Shaye Benton

To encourage young people in creative writing, Davidson graduate and renowned author Patricia Cornwell established the Patricia D. Cornwell Prize this past year. The scholarship, which is worth $10,000 and renewable for four years, is awarded to one incoming freshman among students who apply for the award by submitting 8-10 pages of any type of writing. Although this is the first year for the scholarship to be awarded, the college received 293 entries. The entire Davidson English faculty read these entries and then selected 45 for further consideration. A committee consisting of Cornwell, Dr. Randy Nelson, Dr. Gill Holland, and Dr. Cynthia Lewis re-read the 45 selected entries and narrowed the number down to ten finalists. The ten students were then invited to Davidson for interviews and a special luncheon with Cornwell held in their honor. At the luncheon, Cornwell announced Sean McGrew of Charlotte as the first recipient of the honorable scholarship. She continued by expressing her pleasure at the excellent quality of every entry. Then, the surprise came. Because she was so impressed with the quality of writing, Cornwell decided to establish another scholarship. The Kay Scarpetta Award for Excellence in Scientific Writing, named for a main character in Cornwell’s books, is valued at $7,500 and is renewable for four years. Cornwell presented the scholarship, which is awarded for writing that is both scientifically oriented and technically based, to Chad Fogleman of Graham, NC. In the course of her comments at the luncheon, Cornwell applauded all of the students and continued by saying that they would always be a permanent part of her Davidson family, and that she would always be available to help them pursue their writing interests.

Photo by Jason Bertsch
Freshmen Nicole Howard and Meg Bentley go through the Lottery line last Tuesday evening.

Lottery Leaves Many Waiting
By Jason Dennis

The residential lottery finally ended, and for many, the stress has ended. For almost 90 men and women, however, the struggle to find a place to live is not over. The almost 60 women without secured rooms will find out next Tuesday night at 5 p.m. when the Residence Life Office hosts a mini-lottery for the women who had tentatively signed up for Irwin and those on the waiting list. They will choose between 2nd Watts and 1st Irwin. Originally, first Irwin was neither a men’s nor women’s hall, but left open to be determined by the number of people on each waiting list. Second Watts was slated to be a men’s hall, but the unexpectedly high number of women left without rooms has led to changes.

Alumni Return for Reunion Weekend
By Jeff Oller

Davidson is welcoming over 1,000 students to campus this weekend. You'll see them shaking hands, touring the buildings, and meeting current students. Who are these students? No, not prospective or other high school students, but former students. Alumni from thirteen different classes will celebrate class reunions during the annual Alumni Weekend from April 16 to April 18. Graduates of the class of 1928 will join graduates from the classes of '33, '38, '43, '48, '53, '58, '63, '68, '73, and 1983. The classes of 1977-1979 will join together to form one class and celebrate their fifteenth anniversary while members of the class of 1923 will be on hand for their seventieth reunion. The action starts at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, April 16, with Spring Convocation. The Davidson Alumni Association has planned over fifty activities for the various classes. Reunion Registration will be held in the Morrison Room of the Union from 11 a.m. until 7 p.m. on Friday as the returning grads roll into town and the excitement starts.

Photo by Casey Rogers
Take a Brisk Walk Down Main Street
Life in Davidson means familiarity with the Soda Shop.Learn about the town surrounding our campus in this week's special, "Davidson, North Carolina." Pages 6-7. By Shaye Benton and Alice Felmlee

Except for a quick trip to the Post Office or the bank, Davidson College students rarely spend much time in the town of Davidson. And though students leave after four years, much of the town has been the same for decades. Things in this unique town do not disappear quickly, but often linger and add to the rich tradition which the town already holds. Take a stroll on a sunny day and here's what you might find.

Our first stop on Main Street is Tom Clark’s Museum and Shop. Clark, a resident of Davidson and a professor of Religion, Art, and Theology at the college for thirty years, left teaching in 1988 to devote all of his time to his sculpting. Thousands of gnome-like figures, each with its own personality and history, adorn the wooden shelves and glass cases of the store which Clark opened nearly three years ago.

Yes, that’s an authentic barber’s flag outside Norton’s Barber Shop. And if you walk in for a quick cut, you will like the many old photos of the town of Davidson, and of college students from years past. There’s not much room to lay anything down, for knick-knacks, magazines, barber’s tools, and other things cover the counter space. And when you walk inside, the creak of the wood floors, the...

See TOWN on page 6

...out rooms caused Residence Life to pull it from the men’s lottery. There are some people not included in this mini-lottery that might resent this sudden opening of a highly sought after dorm to wait-listed women. Those who may be upset are women who got rooms down the hill but would prefer to be in Watts, since they have higher numbers than the women who will get rooms in Watts. Also, some junior men expected to have an opportunity to live in Watts but instead were forced to remain in Belk. Richard Terry, Director of Residence Life...

See Lottery on page 2

Patricia Cornwell, a 1979 Davidson graduate, is the author of award-winning mystery novels and number one best-sellers Post Mortem, Body of Evidence, and All That Remains. Mrs. Gardner Roller Ligo, Merit Scholarship Coordinator, stated of the scholarship: “[These awards] are perfect examples of Davidson’s emerging philosophy of merit scholarship aid. These scholarships recognize and award special talent and ability and then nurture that talent.”

Students Want to Know Why the Court Stinks
By Mandy Curtis

“Maintaining” Patterson Court, literally and symbolically, is a concern of students, faculty, and staff at Davidson. Recently, the concern has been directed to sewage. The Environmental Action Committee, alarmed by an odor and rumors of leaking sewage pipes, has raised questions about Patterson Court’s sewage system. Students want to know what the foul smell is and where it is coming from.

According to Maintenance Supervisor Jerry Archer, however bad the court may smell, there is nothing unusual happening. He said that there has been a history of sewage overflow from one particular manhole on the court. However, to his knowledge, this has not happened in over a year. The specific manhole in question is the one between Warner Hall and Connor. There, the manhole has overflowed with sewage in years past. Archer stated that this has only happened when there has been a build-up of food grease and other garbage and excrement sent down the drains and into the pipelines. The grease congeals in the pipes and acts as a stoppage in the system. Archer stated that the pipes...

See Smell on page 3

NEWS: Sarah Weddington, prevailing Roe v. Wade attorney, speaks at Davidson. Page 4.

OPINIONS: Ambroise on integration. Page 12.

SPORTS: Senior Albie Varoski finishes his great tennis career. Page 14.

ARTS: Tattoos. Rachel takes a look at the world of body art. Page 8. Scott McLean hated Crush. Page 8.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036