THE DAVIDSONIAN _ OPINIONS — MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Taking Curiosity Too Far Can Equal Danger
By Bryan Allison

It is human nature to stick one’s nose where it does not belong. Yet where is the line drawn between innocuous curiosity and disregard for the effects of one’s actions? Several examples of taking curiosity too far have recently occurred at Davidson.

Very few people missed the hubbub caused by Terry Holland’s decision to give Belk gym to the UNCC men’s team when the Davidson women’s team already had a game scheduled. Heck, it made the front page of the sports section of the Charlotte Observer. “Discrimination against female athletics!” was the rallying cry. I have to admit that after reading the article, I was a bit miffed, too. But then I sink my teeth into the next issue of The Davidsonian. I then realized, much to my dismay, that several pertinent facts were left out of the article in The Observer. Only then did I realize that the decision had been made weeks beforehand, not on the spur of the moment, as I had been led to believe. Not to mention the significant amount of money the men’s game would bring to the athletic program.

A couple of issues later, I read about the reduction of the normal faculty teaching load to five courses. From the letters to the editor that I read, I was convinced that the campus was going to hell in a handbasket (whatever that means). But in his letter to the editor, Dr. Zimmermann makes some salient points in favor of the reduction. Perhaps he said it best in the letter: “The acknowledged leaders among national liberal arts institutions must have discovered something significant about the quantity/quality balance, since they all have a maximum load of five courses.”

Most recently, the front page cried “Innocent Black Students Stopped by Campus Police.” The story goes on to relate how on March 22, two black students were stopped by a campus police officer and asked for identification. I only found out two days ago that the police officer who stopped the two students was also an African-American, a fact which conveniently did not appear in the article. And in lieu of the continually increasing bicycle thefts on campus, stopping the two students seems to be a little less blatant and a little more justified.

Now I am not saying that racism does not exist on this campus; plenty of unfortunate examples of racism, some more subtle than others, have occurred on Davidson’s campus recently. But this is not one of them.

The effects of these various articles are varied. The course reduction story probably did not have much of an effect on too many people outside of Davidson. But the story in The Observer was read by the better part of the Charlotte area. And the story about the two students stopped by campus police appeared on the front page of The Davidsonian. Not only do we read The Davidsonian, but so do our parents. And so do prospective students.

I do not intend to judge these actions because what’s done is done. I only propose this question: Is this the kind of publicity Davidson needs to improve its image? Let’s be a little more careful before we make rash accusations not based on all of the facts of an issue. We didn’t like it when there was little student input in the writing of the new alcohol policy. It makes sense that Terry Holland knows how to run the athletic program better than we do. It makes sense that teachers know how and how often to teach better than we do. It makes sense that the campus police know how to protect students and their property more effectively than we do.

Do you support the idea that Patterson Court houses eat lunch together in Vail Commons instead of on the court?
Davidsonian Opinion Poll
No - 39%
Yes - 47%
This poll was conducted two weeks ago. 100 students were surveyed.

Face Reality of Racial Stereotypes
Spain continued from page 12

because he/she would have easily blended into the Davidson College populous. The combination of Chris Leak and Cedric West being unrecognizable, nondescript African-American males, with a bicycle in their possession hurled them across the boundary of general suspicion, which we are all subject to, into the realm of being legitimate suspects. It is within these bounds that the offense committed against them, justified or not, occurred. The ultimate question is whether this procedure of questioning to identify is legitimate harassment, or merely an inconvenient precaution. On a personal level, it is irritating more than anything else. It reminds the person being approached that he/she may be viewed and treated differently than other groups may be viewed and treated, because of factors he/she has no control over.

The intent of this letter is not to label the DCPD a racist organization, nor do I seek to label the particular officer involved in this incident a racist. Instead, I will say that what can be perceived as a policy of stopping nondescript African-American males, more so than any other group on campus, has racist implications. The policy, in itself, may not...be inherently racist. The officer may not be an outright racist, if he is a racist at all, but the enactment of this policy, which I cannot help but believe is influenced by race, is a racist act. What both the officer and policy are guilty of is stereotyping a certain group, and then acting on this stereotype. This is racism. When this type of behavior exists in an organization with the authority of a police department, the result is institutionalized racism. I base all of these conclusions on the simple and easily proven fact that African-Americans, African-American males in particular, are approached by the DCPD more often than whites or any other minority group. Within any society, prejudices exist. It is idealistic and utopic for us to believe that we can eradicate or escape all of them. It is my opinion that this incident involves not only prejudices, but policy and the enactment of policy based on these prejudices. This is racism. Whether this form of racism is direct or indirect, intentional or unintentional is something to be discussed, but it is racism nonetheless, and that cannot be avoided.

By Alex Crumbley

On the sunny Thursday before Easter, I ambled out of Chambers to head down the hill for lunch, as I do every Thursday after my ten o'clock class. Today was different, though, because I saw a congregation of students around the flagpole looking at some commotion down by Cannon. Curiously, I joined the group and asked someone what was going on. “It’s the IVCF,” someone replied with a note of mockery. “I can’t believe they’re doing this.” A group of students were participating in a passion play, enacting Jesus’ walk through the streets of Jerusalem to Mount Cavalry, with one student wailing and carrying a large cross and the others surrounding him, shouting “Crucify him!” This was not our typical Davidson scene, and, like everyone else, I was caught off guard. As students continued to pile out of Chambers, embarrassed looks and snide comments permeated the growing crowd of spectators. I didn’t know what to think. Being a member of America’s cynical, snide, post-modernist generation, my first instinct was to deride their activity and dismiss it as ridiculous. Although the players were making their way up toward Chambers to cross beside the flagpole in front of the crowd, my curiosity got the better of me, and I walked down to where they were. Suddenly, the student who was playing the role of Pilate looked up at me and pointed straight at me, shouting, “Will you bear his burden? Will you carry the cross of Christ?” I froze. Silence descended upon the world. Before I knew what had happened to me, there was a heavy wooden cross on my back, and everyone with whom I had disapprovingly observed the play now saw me as its leader. “Dammit,” I thought with a sigh. So I carried the cross right in front of Chambers, in front of my peers, my pride surrendered and my ego left defenseless to blows from jeering students. Thoughts raced through my mind. “I usually avoid this type of situation pretty well,” I thought to myself. “This feels bad. Why did this happen to me? I want my mommy.”

After it was all over, and I was safely in my house eating lunch, my friend Max asked, “Alex! What in the hell were you doing carrying the cross? Everyone’s going to think you’re a Jesus freak now!” I am not a particularly religious person. In fact, I’ve never been awake on a Sunday morning at Davidson. But for some reason I felt defensive, not only because I felt victimized but because I now empathized with the students in the passion play. In the course of a few moments, I had seen the situation from both sides, and it affected my attitude about tolerance. I respected these students not necessarily because of what they were doing but because they were taking a risk, professing strong belief and, in doing so, setting themselves up to be judged by others. Though I laughed with Max about the incident, I felt mocked myself. But now I’m glad this happened to me. Even though I didn’t really identify with what these students were doing, I learned the importance of having others support you, regardless of whether they want to participate themselves. The least a college student can ask for is not to be scorned by his fellow students for his efforts to promote whatever it is he believes in. Hopefully, he can ask for more—actually to be supported in his activity. It was good to see so many people at the homosexuality and Take Back the Night forums, but I encourage the members of this community to support each other also in more everyday events, from athletics to theater productions to union activities. You don’t have to support the cause to support the person, and having a network of support and constructive criticism is part of what makes attending a college valuable. As Davidson moves to diversify, more and more varied student groups will emerge, and I hope that we will be prepared to actively support the new ideas that will accompany our increasingly diverse campus.