4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

SGA Phonathon Surpasses Original Goal of $175,000
By Mary McCrory

The smell of hot pizza wafted down the halls of Chambers every night around 6:00. People wandered through the library
with helium balloons. What was this madness? In case you missed it, the annual SGA Phonathon ran from Sunday, February
14, through Wednesday, February 24. Every evening from 6-9 p.m., students packed Chambers Gallery to solicit pledges from alumni. With
the organization of Phonathon Co-Chairs Kelly Cunningham, Bailey Foster, Tom Koonce, Dan Nechemias, and Alice Spivey, the Phonathon was a
huge success. Freshmen, Independents, Fraternities, Eating Houses, and BSC worked together to raise $181,645 for the Annual Fund.

The Annual Fund provides 10% of the operating budget of the college. Money collected from the Phonathon will be put
towards athletic equipment, light bulbs, furniture, WDAV, the living endowment, and the Wildcat Club, among other things. This year, the
brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon pulled in more than any other house with $30,970 in pledges. Kappa Alpha followed closely
with $28,610, and the Freshmen and BSC raised $27,065. Other houses were as follows: Rusk - $22,300, Pi Kappa Alpha
with Warner Hall - $21,425, Phi Gamma Delta with Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Phi Epsilon - $14,715, and Connor
- $12,460.

Friendly house rivalry was not the only reason to attend, however. Prizes like free ice cream, free movie passes, and
a free dinner at Woody’s were all good reasons to attend. Also, dinner at houses on the court was canceled
so members would eat pizza instead. Calling for money wasn’t always easy, as some discovered. Several students were turned down
by alumni whose children were not accepted into Davidson. Also, sophomore Chris Hood called one alumna at a really bad
time: her house had just burned down! The best way to persuade reluctant alumni to pledge, according to Tara Pyne,
is to “Put it on a more personal level, don’t just read off the page in front of you.”

Money from the Phonathon is used for materials and activities vital to Davidson students. This should be the biggest incentive
to go, even more than free prizes. Also, this should be a big incentive for alumni to give. As Alice
Spivey pointed out, “It’s really a neat connection to have between alumni and students. You’re calling for the school they
went to, and it’s a chance for them to find out what’s happening here.”

Students and Faculty Meet to Discuss Diversity
Problem Exists on All Levels: From the Court to Classes
By Brad Johnson

Last Thursday night, a group of faculty members and students met for a dinner discussion on cultural inclusiveness at Davidson.
Organized by Alice Spivey and Rachel Dunifon through the SGA and presented by Bill Mahoney of the Religious Department and
SGA President Alden Smith, the discussion aimed to bring a diverse group of community members together and to discuss the
creation of a more inclusive and integrated Davidson.

Dr. Mahoney opened the discussion by asking why inclusiveness was not more prevalent on campus. He noted that some students
appear intolerant of people of different genders, races, and sexual orientations. He also stated that he saw anxiety as the
primary cause of this problem, saying that today’s pluralistic society creates a need for a sense of stability and belonging.
Criticizing Patterson Court houses for stressing the group rather than the individual and thus not allowing for self-identification, Mahoney argued
that many people deny themselves the opportunity to expand theirworld view. Junior Rafael Candelario agreed with Mahoney and added that
the court drew people looking for an identity and thus, created a certain amount of inclusiveness rather than the desired
diversity. From a different perspective, SGA Vice-President Alice Spivey argued that people too often neglect the diversity present within each
house because greater emphasis is placed on the external differences and appearances as a whole. The presentation was then turned
over to Alden Smith. He stated that the movement toward diversity must be led by the majority. He also pointed
out the experience of Wayne Crumwell, Davidson’s first black graduate, who was far from happy with his tenure at Davidson.
Problems discussed ranged from the decreasing number of minority students to the fact that African-Americans often separate themselves from the
rest of the students in the Commons during dinner. The committee also discussed the popular misconception that the BSC is
only for black students. Smith asked why the BSC was criticized for being exclusive when no one questioned the exclusiveness
of the fraternities. He also commented on the need for a new college union that would cater to the needs
of all students and at the same time would be attractive in terms of social activities.

Homosexuality was also discussed. Dr. Sam Maloney shared results of a questionnaire he had handed out in his Christian Ethics
class. Of the students in the class, 100% agreed that they would vote for a President without regard to race
or gender, but only 50% agreed that they would vote for a sexually promiscuous or homosexual candidate. It was proposed
that inclusiveness be initiated in the classroom. Smith complimented one of his teachers for recognizing Martin Luther King at the
end of class on the civil rights leader’s birthday. Drs. McMillen and Curran agreed with this sentiment and added that
students often appear wary of discussing difficult issues such as diversity in class.

Also targeted in the discussion was the admission process. Some expressed concern about the cap placed on financial aid. However,
Dr. Homer Sutton, former Dean of Admissions, stated that as more money was raised by The Campaign for Davidson, more
aid would become available. Sophomore Anni Kirkland suggested initiating inclusiveness during the admissions process. She saw a questionnaire distributed to
applicants and dealing primarily with the problem of diversity as a way to alert potential students that the school was
serious about the issue. She further argued that this would allow candidates to decide if they want to attend a
college where the issue is so prevalent. Dr. Mahoney noted that the admissions process is currently being updated.

Photo by Casey Rogers
Mary Katherine Gregory schmoozes for alumni money.

The John Teague Vice President of NationsBank
Dinner Talk on the Bond Market
March 8, 6-8 p.m.
Dupont Room in the Commons
Sign Up Outside of Dr. Lindsey's office
323b Chambers
The Speaker is willing to discuss career accessibility.

KOBE JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD
Sushi Bar Open Sunday-Thursday Evenings
Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.
Bern Norman Crossing
20285 Chartwell Ctr. Dr.
Cornelius, NC
705-896-7778
Early Bird Special (Sunday-Thursday, 5:00-6:30)
$2.00 off Chicken
$2.00 off Shrimp
$3.00 off Chicken & Shrimp
Lunch: Wed., Thurs. & Fri. 11:30 - 2:00
Sun. - Thurs. 5-10 p.m.
Fri. - Sat. 5-11 p.m.
Norman Crossing
I-77 Exit 28
