Cr & quis onian

SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993 NUMBER 2

Dean of Students Will Terry Announces Plans to Retire
By Ross Sloop

Last week Dean of Students Will Terry announced that he will step down from his position at the end of
the ’93-’94 school year. Terry has served the Davidson Community in various capacities for over thirty years. Terry graduated from
Davidson as a member of the class of 1954 and returned to the college in 1962 as chaplain. He later
served as pastor of DCPC for five years until 1971 when he became the college’s 12th Dean of Students.

During his tenure at Davidson, Terry has seen the college grow and change in a number of ways. The student
body has grown by almost fifty percent. As Dean of Students, Terry also helped usher in the era of coeducation
at Davidson.

Five years ago he developed the Davidson Plus program in an effort to help freshmen adjust to college life. The
program encourages students to communicate openly with one another about social and personal issues. Terry says that Davidson Plus also
provides him with the opportunity to know a larger group of students on a closer basis.

In his last year at Davidson, Terry will be busy as ever. Before leaving he has an agenda of goals
he hopes to accomplish. He wants to see a more serious religious program take root on campus and hopes to
foster a renewed sensitivity to the Honor Code. Terry also wants to initiate a student leadership program. He is currently
working with others on plans for a new student union building. Finally, Dean Terry says that he wants a system
by which the college can evaluate the quality and effectiveness of the school’s student services.

Davidson has not decided on an individual to replace Terry in the Dean’s office, but President Kuykendall will soon form
a search committee that will seek candidates for the position. Upon retirement, Dean Terry plans to vacation while he also
continues work on a new home near the Pines. Although he will no longer serve the college in an official
manner, Dean Terry says he will always be ready to help Davidson in any way possible.

Consultants to Study Feasibility of New Union
By Alice Felmlee

Has the college outgrown its current union? What sorts of facilities should be offered in a new union? Where would
such a facility be best located? These are all questions that representatives from MPC & Associates out of Washington, D.C.
will try to answer this week as they assess the college’s need for a new student center. The representatives will
be on campus Wednesday through Friday for interviews and investigation. With the help of selected students, faculty, and staff, they
hope to draw some conclusions for a new union.

During their visit to the Davidson campus, Gail Biddison and Tom Hier of MPC & Associates are scheduled to conduct
interviews with three student focus groups, one of which is composed solely of freshmen, members of the SGA, and the
Union Board. The Physical Plant, the office of Auxiliary Services, the Athletic Department, as well as organizations not located on
the Davidson campus who enjoy the use of Union facilities will also be interviewed. In addition, Biddison and Hier will
meet with President Kuykendall, Dean Terry, and the Union Planning Committee composed of both faculty and students.

“We have tried to assemble a group of students and faculty who will represent the campus broadly and with an
open mind in these interviews,” says Dr. John Kelton, Director of Institutional Research and overseer of the Union Planning Committee.

While serious discussion about plans for a new union has been under way for nearly a year, original talk of
such a facility began long ago. When Johnston Gym was left vacant in 1989 by the opening of Baker Sports
Complex, thoughts of this being the ideal location for a new union became apparent.

See Union on page 5

The soccer angle grows wider
The Wildcat soccer program has put Davidson on the sporting map. This summer the school signed a deal with Sports
South to broadcast the Final Four live. See page 14.

Campaign for Davidson Secures $123,300,000
By Mary McCroryFor Davidson has raised $123,300,000 to be divvied up to every aspect of Davidson College. The Campaign for
Davidson officially began in November 1989, with a resolve to raise $150,000,000 over the course of five years. The planning
for such te 11 >

Photo by Casey Rogers

Clinton appoints Davidson dad
By Christy Block

As President Clinton gets comfortable in the Oval Office, we’ve begun to see some changes in our nation’s policies, and
in turn, in its leaders. We now have a whole slew of new names in the headlines, one of which
won’t be too much trouble to remember. John Howard Dalton, Sr. is, as of July 21, the Navy’s newly appointed
Secretary. The Junior version of our Secretary of the Navy is part of the “Davidson Family," and can’t believe people
are asking him how he feels about his father’s newest position: “It’s just strange to hear Dad’s voice on CNN,
and to think of him as someone whose picture will be up in the Pentagon...” But, as unbelievable as it
seems to John, Jr., no one else seems to be surprised that Dalton was Clinton’s hand-picked nominee. He is said
to be one of the Navy’s most capable and qualified secretaries. His Senate Hearings in July went as smoothly as
they come these days, as Mr. Dalton answered questions about his plans for dealing with Defense budget cuts, and the
latest Tailhook scandal. Dalton faithfully stood by his Navy’s founder, John Paul Jones, and quoted the duties of every Naval
officer who must be both “an officer and a gentleman.”

Although Dalton became the active Secretary in July, his swearing-in ceremony took place on August 14 at his alma mater,
the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. The Naval Academy Superintendent, Rear Admiral Thomas C. Lynch, made Dalton and his
entourage guests of honor at the Academy. The “Official Party” of the ceremony included the Deputy Secretary of Defense, William
J. Perry, Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Kelso, Marine Corps Commandant, General Mundy, Admiral Arleigh A. Burke, Rear Admiral Thomas
C. Lynch, Dean Richard Lobs, long-time friend Reverend Doctor Robert Ratelle, Mr. Dalton’s brother-in-law, and his wife and “claim to
fame,” Margaret Ogilvie Dalton. Dalton’s speech raised a few proverbial neck hairs as he accepted his new position. He made
obvious his gratitude, faith, and sincere patriotism with his closing line: “God bless you. God bless the men and women
of the Navy and Marine Corps. And God bless America.”

John Dalton, Sr. served 12 years in the Navy: four at the Academy, six in active duty where he attained
the rank of Lieutenant, and two in the Naval Reserve where he was promoted to Lieutenant Commander. After earning his
Master of Business Degree from the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, Mr. and Mrs. Dalton moved to Dallas where
they lived until 1976, when they first moved to Washington, D.C. Mr. Dalton there became active in the Democratic Party,
and was nominated.

See Dalton on page 5

THIS WEEK

The Campaign for Davidson began in 1986. According to Jamie May, Director of Development and Alumni Programming, “We actually raised
$60 million before we ever announced we were going to raise $150 million.” The goals of the campaign for Davidson
are multi-faceted. The campaign seeks $40 million to support teaching. $15 million of the total will endow 10 Distinguished Professorships.
The McGee Professorship in Writing is one example. It encourages the teaching of writing at Davidson by bringing a different
writer-teacher to Davidson each year. The campaign will raise $13 million for endowed positions, $6 million to improve salaries of
the current faculty (which is relatively low in comparison with schools like Swarthmore, Duke, Washington and Lee, and the University
of Virginia), and $6 million to allow professors to do more research, present more papers, exhibit more artwork, or conduct
more experiments. The campaign will also raise

See Campaign on page 4

NEWS: McConnell offers housing option for faculty. Page 2.
OPINIONS: Excerpts from Duke President's welcome address. Page 8.
SPORTS: Men's basketball trained in Italy this summer. Page 15.
ARTS: Geoff Graham is Still Whistlin' Dixie. Page 11. Rachel digs Lenny Kravitz. Page 11.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
