SRN NG: x os Yn te iC € ne iy id “te, fsaee / penis ad si ia energie tN
a le! G

THE DAVIDSONIAN! ARTS! MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

OFF THE SCENE

A completely boring and entirely too difficult to read calendar of the week's upcoming events.

Grateful Dead & Residew. 900 Room. Free with Davidson College I.D. 9:30 p.m. Come hear your favorite Dead songs and
some originals. Apr. 30.

Obstinacy Training Workshop. Led by Richard Terry, this workshop teaches firmness and tenacity against insurmountable obstacles. Learn how to say
“no” to even the most seemingly logical requests. Designed to give the developing student a will of iron. Great for
combating peer pressure. Plus: Tips on how to use your student ID access cards before they change the security system
again. Morrison Room. Apr. 27, 7:00 p.m.

Beetle Education Seminar. This consciousness-raising seminar involves a tour of the northeast area of the main campus, where the brutal
Southern Pine Bark Beetle is currently destroying a number of innocent trees. The affected trees, some of which have been
here since the 1940s, are all being destroyed. Learn how you can spot this merciless insect and the best techniques
for beetle crushing. Tour meets at the baseball field, Apr. 26 at 2:00 p.m.

Day At The Algae Pond. Due to the recent success of “Day at the Lake,” the school is sponsoring a
Day at the Algae Pond. The Algae Pond is located about a mile from campus on the road leading to
I-77, right next to “ELOX - An Agie Group Company.” This small ecosystem often supports such wildlife as mallard ducks
and the occasional heron. Patterson Court Houses will sponsor booths designed to educate students on the value of algae in
our society today. Algae burgers and shakes will be served. With the wonderful DJ from Day At The Lake!! (You
know, the one with the Curl Activator.) May 1, 12:00-5:00 p.m.

Liquorhouse. Tuesday, 8:30-11:00 p.m. Come drink liquor and eat doughnuts. A great chance to see your friends and professors and
catch up on old times. 900 Room.

KROP Lunch. Special lunch for Rob Ukrop. Every Wednesday, 11:30 a.m. 900 Room.

Skunks of Prey. Presented by the Carolina Skunk Center. Learn about the different varieties of the skunk found in this
area and how you can spot them from afar. Familiarize yourself with the telling odor that lets you know a
skunk is in your neighborhood. With ever-popular scratch-and-sniff booth. Included: a discourse on the mating patterns of skunks, migratory patterns,
best techniques for washing skunk spray from the body. Apr. 28. 7:30 p.m. in the Big Screen Room.

Eighteen Year Old Night. 900 Room. Thursday, 8:30-10:30 p.m. Bring your friends. Play Word Yahtzee, Scrabble, UNO, and Trivial Pursuit
for Juniors. Kool-Aid will be served. Don't forget your two I.D.'s.

Partnership For A Doped-Up America. A representative from the Partnership For A Doped-Up America will be speaking on Apr. 28
in the Morrison Room. He will discuss the health benefits of the drug and its many uses—for cancer patients, to
make rope, as birdseed, as a source of paper, and most importantly, for relaxation purposes.

VAX Seminar offered by the Association of Student Librarians. Log on with the Society for Creative Anachronism. Computer Services Center,
Apr. 28.

The Pines Nudist Colony is having a College Day this Saturday. Come as you are.

Celebrating Men At Davidson - See how far we’ve come, and how far we still have to go. Speaker: Chalmers
Davidson. Tuesday, 4:00 p.m.

Tacky Party at SAE. Off campus at the American Legion. Stair-diving lessons led by David Lindsay and Rachel Newcomb. Saturday
night.

Kappa Sigma and Connor - Knitting Festival Mixer. Friday night.

PIKA - Party Saturday night. Plenty of hot tub nudity, no alcohol monitors or cops (until some do-gooder gets there!).

SPE Cookout. Wednesday. Grill weenies on the SPE cooker with the Sig Ep cook, climb the SPE tree, play a
round of ‘pong with the guys.

Order on the Court - PIKA is having a party, so KA is having a BYOB.Saturday. Watch highlights from the
1992 Soccer Season video. “We laughed, we cried, it was the feel-good video of the year.” — Spanky Valdez. Phi
Delt Music — Up all night, sleep all day. Can be heard from anywhere on campus. Two people rockin’ out,
playin’ foosball on the roof— PAR-TAY!! All week. Tractor Pull in Baker Sports Complex. Wednesday night. Sponsored by Inter Varsity
Christian and Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Followed by tag team co-ed mud wrestling in the shallow end of the pool.
— Senior Apartments - there’ll be nothing going on. Davidson Police — How to Close Down a Party Rudely. Sponsored
by Officer Hightower. "Well Tabitha, the White House is really interesting. If you want to sneak out the back door
with me, we can ditch this crap and I can show you my Presidential pencil.” +... Catch the Horoscope Fever!
Scope continued from page 8

Added: Dimensions (Note: prices may vary according to size of garment). Don’t diet, the Libra constellation defies gravity in more
than one way. Don’t worry though, Rosanne Barr has a new exercise video that helped other Libras such as Oprah
Winfrey and Liz Taylor. Oh horizontally challenged one, some say the world is round, but you will make it flat
again.

Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) You will die on the 22nd.

Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) You centaur-archer, you... you are hung like a horse and will hit the bullseye this month.
Experience the world of Catherine the Great - a new stallion will be ridden around the 10th. On the 19th,
your new jockey, a Libra, will cause you grief and back pains after riding you for the first time. On
a financial note, your chances of getting away with embezzlement are good on the 20th, but on the 21st, the
$2 stolen from your hall counselor will not go unnoticed. Don’t let that bring you down, archer, you’ll experience two
hours of arched back on the 26th.

Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Ram, ram, horny ram. Rammed... oh ram, you ram, oh, you ram. Horny horndog, your horns
are rammed, ram, ah sweet ram. Ram, ram, you horned ram: ramming ram, oh ram some more. (Random ramming)

Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) Rejoice! This is the dawning of your age! On the 2nd, temperatures rise, and your water
starts to boil. You’re in for a steamy encounter around the 9th, but don’t get washed up - these feelings
soon evaporate. Cheer up, old fella! You’re known for your individuality - chronic loneliness and nights spent alone in your
single playing solitaire. Good movies to rent next Friday night: Revenge of the Nerds III, Dying Young, Can't Buy Me
Love, and that recently severed Siamese twin’s Silk Stalkings video collection.

Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) Something’s smelling fishy and they say it’s you. Your chronic odor festers in your hall (4th
Belk?), and this problem won’t improve until you shower on the 6th. Scour the hairier parts of your body with
Ajax - this may help the situation. Try gasoline and Listermint for your breath - your special predicament demands these
drastic measures. On the 27th, beware of a hardy sailor who may skin you alive, yet this might solve your
problem. Your weakness, insecurity, begins to bother you mid-month when people forget your name because you have such a plain
face and wear big shoes. Don’t worry - it’s not that you’re ugly... you’re just not very interesting.

Aries (March 21-April 19) You are small and hairy and you suck. Don’t get any big ideas this month or
any month, for you are destined to be little. They say big things come in small packages, and boy do
you have a big surprise for that cute Gemini approaching your sector. After that Gemini dumps you on the 19th,
consider being Danny DeVito’s stunt double for a career. You won’t make much money, but you might die.

Poetry... Oh, My Aching Toes
Mom's All
Trees
Trees everywhere
Bees
Bees Everywhere
Mom's Everywhere
Dad's
Dad's Everywhere
WATCH OUT BEHIND YOU! THERE'S A WOOKER!
All Hurting My Toes
Maybe
Maybe I'll Wear Shoes
