2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

Disabled Students Discuss Unique Davidson Experiences

Solidarity Week Sponsors Forum to Promote Awareness & Understanding

By Alice Felmlee

Rising an hour before class, Stephen dresses, gathers his books, and heads off to beat the morning rush in Chambers. He arrives just in time to beat the professor into the classroom. Tired of studying and hoping to enjoy the unusually warm air of February, Marty makes a post office run. His friends are busy so he heads off on his own. Certainly, going to class and checking your mail are parts of everyday life — the lives of Stephen and Marty, too.

Stephen Faller has been affected by cerebral palsy since birth. Although he can walk with braces, he depends on his motorized wheelchair for most of his daily transportation. Marty McLeod is blind. Armed with his ears and his cane which he “uses as a red flag” Marty has no problem being independent. Growing up with these disabilities has given both students a perspective on Davidson and life which many of us may never experience.

When Stephen and Marty shared these perspectives as part of Solidarity Week one thing became apparent. Similarity. “A lot of aspects of my life are a little more complicated than yours, but it’s still just day-to-day. It’s a life just like anybody else’s life,” said Stephen. Sharing the platform with Betsey Boshell, a senior who has completed extensive research on Americans with disabilities, the two painted a picture of their lives as Davidson students. Like the other 1,500 Davidsonians, they seek the complete college experience; unlike the rest of us, they sometimes face discomforting attitudes and unwanted assistance.

The attitudes they sense do not come from turning heads, stares, or snide remarks; rather, they appear in indirect ways. “A lot of people take advantage of the handicapped parking spaces on campus because they know I’m the only person who uses them. It’s not as crucial for me because I can walk but there are those disabled people out there who will be forced to go elsewhere when those spaces are taken,” commented Stephen. Certainly, we have all seen cars without handicapped license plates or stickers parked in handicap spaces.

Holding doors, carrying food trays for others, and offering assistance on an assignment is often seen as being merely polite. For handicapped people, however, this overzealous willingness to help can often be interpreted in another way: “It’s always wonderful to have help offered and to receive it; but it’s also wonderful to be trusted to handle things on your own,” explained Marty. Stephen offered this advice about knowing when to offer help. “If it’s something an individual needs help with they will ask. Simply, give help when needed but not when you want to be helpful.”

Listening to lectures, writing papers, and taking tests are all parts of Stephen’s and Marty’s lives similar to other Davidson students; yet for Marty study practices are a bit different.

Davidson Archaeological Program Prepares for Another Summer Excavation in Cyprus

By Andrew Spainhour and Alex Crumbley

Dr. Michael Toumazou, Davidson professor of classics and archaeology, is already planning another summer of archaeological excavation and study on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. Now in its fourth year, the project has already met with considerable success, with regard to both the educational experience which its participants have enjoyed and the discoveries that have been unearthed on the site in Athienou, Cyprus. Last summer, six Davidsonians excavated alongside 35 other students and archaeologists from colleges and universities around the U.S. In addition to receiving credit for Toumazou’s field school CLA 342, Andrew Spainhour, Stancel Riley, Sarah Melson, Alex Crumbley, Joseph Cooper, and Jason Bell traveled extensively around Cyprus with the rest of the group, which included several Davidson alumni and Instructional Support Director Diane Stirling.

The excavation in Athienou, a village near the Cypriot capital Nicosia, sought primarily to uncover a number of...Buildings and tombs, dating from the Archaic period (6th century B.C.) to the Venetian period (17th century A.D.). In addition to discovering several structures and a sanctuary believed to be devoted to Herakles, a Venetian cemetery was unearthed, exposing a large number of skeletons. The most exciting finds included a gold and onyx ring, a gold necklace, and several statues. The finds are now housed in the museum, located in Larnaca, a coastal city to the south of Athicnou. Toumazou hopes one day to raise enough money to build a museum in close proximity to the site. Though archaeology sounds mysterious and adventurous because of Indiana Jones and his escapades, senior Sarah Melson dispels such myths. “It’s really hard work,” she remarks, “but it’s a lot of fun to learn about Cypriot culture, both in the present and in ancient times.” Dr. Toumazou is holding an informational meeting this Wednesday at 8:00 pm in Chambers room 312 for students interested in working for the project this summer.

Last year, these summer archaeological students unearthed a sanctuary devoted to the Greek hero, Herakles, a Venetian cemetery, and a gold and onyx ring.

Photo courtesy of Andrew Spainhour

Donation Continued from page 1

And foundation gifts are currently at $33 million since the gift from First Union. Last year Davidson raised $4.7 million from corporations and foundations. That broke the previous record of $4.1 million. Exactly how the $1.1 million from First Union will be utilized at the College has not yet been decided, according to Bethea. In the next couple of weeks, Davidson and First Union officials will sit down and hope to come up with concurrent ideas of how the money will be spent. Having built upon experiences of campaigning in regional areas like Raleigh, Durham, Chapel Hill, Greensboro, and Winston-Salem, Davidson has gone into Charlotte “very ready,” according to Bethea. Charlotte is the midpoint of the national campaign, and in the next 6 months Davidson hopes to raise $9 million more in new commitments. After Charlotte, the campaign will move on to other cities such as Washington D.C., Richmond, and Atlanta.

Washingtor's Birthday Sale! Our Annual DOORBUSTER Sale Continues Through Sat. Feb. 27

Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel for MEN and WOMEN

A little different. “I get to hear lectures twice whether I want to or not,” he commented. Using a braille machine, Marty transcribes all of his lectures from tapes in order to have them for later use. In addition, he must also depend on cassette recorded textbooks, and even sometimes a classmate, or Dr. Marsicano to read daily assignments to him as well. To that Marty commented, “I sometimes think these people don’t know what they’re getting themselves into.” Closing their discussion, Stephen and Marty focused on one main idea. “The main problem begins when we become different. The only way to stop this and affect change is through being informed.” Boshell summed this up, “the fact that many presently abled bodies will become disabled in the future and no one knows if it will be them or possibly a loved one, should at least be one selfish reason to support the physically disabled person’s right to equality.”

Recycling Continued from page 1

When students went on school breaks. In addition, students were overwhelmed because they had to organize recycling bins in other parts of the campus, like the Union, dorms, and houses. With the new strategy, members of the faculty and staff can participate in the process; the work will be shared and recycling will be more successful. “The exciting thing from my perspective,” Dr. Martin said, “is not that the policy is here but that we can make the policy a part of everyday life.” Currently, some items, like colored paper and colored bottles, are not included in the recycling. The system will incorporate these items once everyone first becomes accustomed to recycling the basics. Recycling in Chambers will take a little adjustment but should eventually save time and will, in the long run, benefit all.

John Mack & Son
123 North Main St., Downtown Mooresville