THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993

Widespread Panic Takes Their Music to New Levels
By Chip Petree

"Who's that girl on the cover?" That’s the question I was asking myself as I left Repo CD’s last Tuesday with the new release from Widespread Panic, *Everyday*, in my hand. I have been eagerly anticipating this new release from the Athens-based group, and its arrival on the store shelves has finally ended months of speculation as to the nature of the release.

Way back on October 5-6, the band held two concerts in Athens’ Georgia Theatre to supposedly record live material for a then-soon-to-be-released album. The plans changed as the band indicated only some of the live material would accompany several studio tracks. Of course, this was little recompense for the several hundred of us who attended the Theatre shows in hopes of hearing ourselves on the album!

However, *Everyday* has surprised us all with its simple, 11-track studio recorded format. I had heard a bootleg tape of the recordings for the album shortly before spring break, and although what I heard was good, I expected a little more from the boys on the real thing. Although no additional songs appear on the CD release, the mixing and production of this album do not fail to impress.

The album begins with “Pleas,” an upbeat number that the band began performing around the beginning of October. Many of you will remember the show that Widespread put on in Johnston Gym on November 3. Three of the next four songs on *Everyday* were performed that evening, including “Papa’s Home.” A simple song in its initial approach, yet with each song Widespread Panic works to create a sound that has undergone lyrical changes to become a song about a traveling sideshow. The other numbers heard that night were “Hatfield,” a brooding number about pioneers and Indians in the Old West, and “Diner,” a rocking number about one of the band’s hangouts back in Athens.

Although Widespread Panic is often lumped into the hippy-music genre with bands like Blues Traveler, Spin Doctors, and Phish, they have a distinctive style that separates them from their contemporaries. They do not possess an ultimate virtuosity and complexity like Phish, and they do not have a single incredible talent to depend on like Blues Traveler’s John Popper. They do, however, have a vision about their music and a simplicity that transcends its limitations in their songwriting. Unlike their last self-titled album, *Everyday* does not depend on long jams to prove their talent as songwriters. Each song works with others to create a sound that WSP has worked for years to master.

In accordance with their songwriting, the band has also improved upon the production of their recording. The last album featured little or no overlays or ornamentation and the bass seemed overmixed. *Everyday* is a very large step in a positive direction. Dave Schools’ bass is toned down, yet as the most accomplished band member on his instrument, his abilities can still be clearly heard (see “Hatfield,” “Papa’s Home”). Also, John Bell’s voice is very polished and seems to be growing stronger with age. As for the surplus ornamentation, listen for extra guitar layers throughout the album, especially on the first radio release, “Wondering.”

The rest of the album features many more treats. “Better Off” is a rolling, Cajun-inspired number in the Little Feat/Meters vein that is guaranteed to be played at Patterson Court gatherings. Also, Matt Mundy from the Aquarian Rescue Unit makes a mandolin appearance on “Pickin’ Up the Pieces,” and Daniel Hutchens of Bloodkin makes a vocal appearance on a cover of his song, “Henry Parsons Died.” The album closes with the Athens-favorite, “Postcard,” and a very mellow “Dream Song.”

Now, those of you who are still with me after this epic review will be interested to know that Widespread Panic will be performing at Rocky’s (bleah!) in Charlotte on April 13th. I can’t think of a better way to get ready for this performance than going out to the closest record store (I endorse Repo on Tyvola) and snatching up their latest release, *Everyday*.

Students Attend Theatre
By Robert M. Ramsay

During the weekend of March 4th, two Davidson seniors—Ed Cunningham, an English Drama major, and Nicole Scoggins, a Theater major—attended the Southeastern Theater Conference in Crystal City, Virginia, where they auditioned for over 70 theater companies from all over the country.Auditions were a type of recruitment, a search for talented actors and actresses who would be offered either summer or nine-month touring jobs. This was an opportunity for experience and publicity of which both Ed and Nicole took advantage. The auditions functioned according to tight time restrictions, giving each actor only sixty seconds to perform his or her monologue. Later, each company posted a list of the people it wanted to see again. Those lucky few were called in to do some improvisation, cold readings, or to sing.

In his minute, Ed performed a comedic monologue from the play "Strange Snow" by Steve Metcalfe. “No one laughed,” he said with a chuckle. He must have impressed someone, however, for eleven companies called Ed back so they could see more. Because of time and location conflicts, Ed could only attend six. Ed is hoping to continue communication with the Ensemble Theater of Cincinnati, where Edward Albee will be directing one of his own new plays. The position he has his sights on is unpaid, but according to Ed, “if you get a chance to work with Edward Albee you don’t look for money.”

At the same time, Nicole was filling her minute with an original piece based on a program called “James Brown Word of the Day” previously played on WPEG. She received fourteen callbacks and was able to attend twelve. Nicole does have her eyes on a certain company, but she refrained from mentioning which one for fear of bringing bad luck on the process. She did say that it offers a good salary, benefits, and travel opportunities. She hopes to hear from them soon. Nicole, who recently directed a play entitled "In My Mind," another original script that celebrates the lives of women, enjoyed the Southeastern Theater Conference overall. “As rough as it was, it was kind of exciting—you’re right there in the hubbub.”

Nevertheless, Ed, who auditioned for several schools in New York earlier this year, was nervous. On his way in he asked someone, “What do we do if we have to puke?” The response: “Don’t.”

Davidsonian Oscar Picks Are a Sure Lock

Oscars continued from page 8

Emma Thompson, "Howard's End." If the indicators are correct, this one will go to Thompson. However, there seems to be some heavy betting on Susan Sarandon, who was passed over for "Thelma and Louise" last year. Pfeiffer and McDonell aren’t exactly out of the running either, but Deneuve’s nomination is the most blatant throwing of a bone I’ve seen in a while. If I were a gambling man, I’d go with Thompson though.

Best Director: Robert Altman, "The Player"; Martin Brest, "Scent of a Woman"; Clint Eastwood, "Unforgiven"; James Ivory, "Howard's End"; and Neil Jordan, "The Crying Game." This one’s pretty much a lock for Clint. He won the Director’s Guild of America award and usually anyone who wins this also gets the Oscar. Robert Altman also deserves some props here, but considering "The Player" skewered Hollywood, I doubt the Academy will be kind.

Best Picture: "The Crying Game"; "A Few Good Men"; "Howard's End"; "Scent of a Woman"; and "Unforgiven." Usually, whoever wins for Best Director, their film wins Best Picture. It’s the law, I’m sure of it. Look for "Unforgiven" to win this one, bolstered by the comeback of the Western with the win of "Dances With Wolves" in 1990. That just about wraps it up for this year. The Best Supporting Actor and Actress categories are basically a crap shoot, but I would look for some big surprises here. Anyway, I’ll be glued to the screen rooting for my faves when the show airs March 29—and I'll be praying that 1993 is a better year.

Come celebrate Spring Frolics with us!

JAPANESE HOUSE OF STEAKS & SEAFOOD

Sushi Bar Open Sunday-Thursday Evenings

Early Bird Special (Sunday-Thursday, 5:00-6:30)
$2.00 off Chicken
$2.00 off Shrimp
$3.00 off Chicken & Shrimp

Lunch Wed., Thurs. & Fri. 11:30 - 2pm
Sun - Thurs. 5-10pm
Fri - Sat 5-11pm

I-77 Exit 28
Norman Crossing
20255 Chartwell Ctr. Dr.
Cornelius, NC
704-896-7778

WRITE FOR ARTS

ALL STEREO SOUND
3:05, 5:10, 7:20, 9:30
3:10, 5:15, 7:25, 9:30

Married To It
EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6

MOVIES at THE LAKE
I-77 EXIT 28 CORNELIUS
892-3841

3:05, 5:05 (G)
7:10, 9:15 (R)
3:10, 5:10
3:10, 5:15
7:15, 9:15
7:20, 9:25

Homeward Bound
Opposite Sex
Groundhog Day
Amos and Andrew

SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY!
5:10, 9:25 (PG)
3:10, 7:15 (PG13)