11 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CHRIS FRAMPTON - Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
YVETTE PITA - Special Section Editor

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

MANDY CURTIS - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist
LAURA DENNIS - Production Manager
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Give & Take Relationship

In 1937, seeing the inequity created in the local schools by desegregation, Ada Jenkins asked Davidson College to donate the bricks from the burned down Chambers Building to erect an improved school for African-American students. (See page 6.) That school now serves as a center for the community and as an example of how Davidson can give to the town. But the school also takes. The entire Housekeeping Staff is made up of members of the community, and most of the groundskeepers are local residents. Without their help, Davidson would be strapped for services.

Last week, Patricia Cornwell again added herself to the college’s long list of scholarship donors. It was the second time she had done so in as many weeks. What the successful author saw in the school was what she had taken from it: a place of learning and growth. (See page 1.) In essence, she has made an attempt to give something back to the school that has given so much to her.

What these specifics show may be the essence of Davidson College’s relationship with the outside world. On an idealistic level, the college molds men and women who can make a difference, people who can adhere to the lofty standards learned during their careers here. On a realistic level, Davidson provides its students with the skills to make a difference in their communities. Unfortunately, we sometimes forget that. Issues such as a new Union and the alcohol policy take precedence over the needs of the community in which we live. Though these issues are important to what we learn here at Davidson and affect the experiences of future students, they tend to overshadow the bigger picture.

Davidson students are part of a global and local community. What we need to remember is that we are being provided with an invaluable opportunity. We are being given the skills and education to make a difference. As future lawyers, doctors, politicians, businessmen, and teachers, Davidson students will give to their communities. In fact, this could be the purpose of our education. But, we can also give now. The town of Davidson is our home and that means it is our responsibility to make it an even better place to live. This responsibility calls for action. Hopefully, we can remember the actions of people like Ada Jenkins and Patricia Cornwell and use them as inspiration to give back to the community.

LETTERS

Diversity and Free Speech Incompatible?

To the editors,

With dismay and shock, we read the minutes of the March 30 SGA meeting. The proposal, discussed by SGA president Alden Smith, to “add an essay question that addresses issues such as open-mindedness and inclusiveness to the application for admission to Davidson” aptly demonstrates the danger of such reactionary and radical sentiments which in recent weeks have graced the pages of The Davidsonian and have empowered God knows whom with those double-edged words such as “inclusiveness” and “open-mindedness.”

The implications of such a question on our application are paramount. If an applicant answers such a question with honesty, will his beliefs shatter his chances of admission? If an applicant is not open-minded, would he be weeded out of the applicant pool in favor of one who writes positively about such trite euphemisms as “diversity?” Will the Davidson admissions office, at the urging of those in the SGA, become thought-police, admitting only those applicants who express whichever ideology is currently en vogue on campus? Will applicants, having doubtlessly read about the rise of Political Correctness on American campuses, lie about their feelings and beliefs in order to gain admission into Davidson College?

Is it ironic that those who espousethe virtues of “inclusiveness” want to exclude those who do not? We urge those people who will attempt to mold the beliefs of future Davidson students to consider seriously the implications of your “fix-it-all” actions. At worst, your awkward, hyper-sensitive question will filter the applicant pool, blocking admission of those applicants who fail to see merit in “inclusiveness.” At best, those who value the freedoms of speech and thought will know not to apply.

With Concern,
Phillip D. Atchison
A. Weaver Whitehead

Figlio Impressed with Campus Attitudes

To the editors,

The last time I wrote The Davidsonian, I was pissed off. I had spent hours running all around campus putting up flyers for FLAG only to have most of them taken down before I was done. I complained that Davidson was a conservative backwater, that most Davidson students seemed to want to keep it that way, that the twentieth century had passed us by. I said a lot of harsh things last spring, all of which I meant at the time, and all of which I would now like to take back.

Two weeks ago FLAG held its second annual forum. Two men and three women, one of them a current Davidson student, spoke on their experiences and hardships of being gay or lesbian in an uncompromising world. Several hundred people came to hear them speak. Their show of understanding was overwhelming. I don’t think I have ever been this proud of my alma mater.

Other leading “liberal arts” colleges make Davidson look like Bush-Quayle Land. But who cares? Time after time, the FLAG forum being the most recent example, Davidson has demonstrated an underlying capacity for acceptance and understanding. No, we are not a campus of activists. Maybe we should be. Maybe we don’t behave enough like students of the sixties. Maybe the causes just don’t seem important enough. When the open-minded are silent, the only ones making noise are the backwards and the narrow. To be open-minded students, to be good Christians, we don’t have to advocate; we just have to accept.

Last year, I didn’t think Davidson was capable of that. Once again, I would like to apologize to my college for my comments last year. Davidson may not be the shining star of my brand of liberalism, but liberal or conservative, no one can rightly accuse Davidson of being backwards.

Sincerely,
Rick Figlio

Groups Promote Campus Lighting

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year.

Advertising

To the editors,

The world we live in is a dangerous place. One needs only to turn on the evening news to be greeted with that reality. Terrorism, drug-related violence, sexual crime—all of these are frequent occurrences and a daily fear for too many people. With suffering and threat so common, it is all too easy to become numb to their presence and desire safe havens where one can escape these horrors. Often times the insulated, idealistic world of a college campus can seem to be just such a haven, an escape into a close community of supreme ideals, great thoughts, and codes of honor.

The unfortunate reality is that no such safe havens exist. Whether we like to believe it or not, college campuses—the Davidson College campus among them—are not islands. The high ideals and standards of conduct that make them good places for learning also often make them good places for crime, especially sexual crime. Here at Davidson College, the highly emphasized Honor Code and the casual habits it engenders make it all too easy to slip into the false complacency that everyone is bound by similar standards of conduct and that nothing bad can ever happen. The Davidson College community must recognize the reality of the dangers which it faces. Although we live in a small town, the college is not unknown and

See Light on page 12