THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Only Dinner Only at

Patterson Court Houses?

Dinner continued from page 1

Interaction that is being discussed by the committee is establishing a “dinner-only” system at the eating houses and fraternities. In this plan, only dinner would be served at the houses, with students eating breakfast and lunch elsewhere on campus. According to Howard, this would “break away from the ‘segregation’ of males and females that results from the current eating house and fraternity systems.”

Petty says that, although this dinner-only plan is still in its formulative stages, she has received very positive feedback about it from members of the women’s eating houses. Petty believes that it is likely that some or all of the women’s houses will implement the plan next semester, hoping that the fraternities would follow suit in the upcoming semesters.

Although she is unsure of the fraternities’ reactions to this plan, Petty says, “even if they don’t do it, it will still be beneficial to the women’s houses and will give us a chance to interact with others,” such as independents, BSC members, freshmen, and athletes who eat in the Commons. House members would retain the opportunity to eat with their friends in their respective houses at dinner each night, Petty says.

The committee plans to discuss eating options with Carleton Pritchard, and hopes to include, along with the Commons, the Union and the Outpost as places where students can eat their meals.

The ultimate goal of the dinner-only plan, says Petty, is “to provide a chance for males and females to interact socially without alcohol.” She, along with many others, believes that this would help alleviate tension between genders that is often felt at Davidson.

Another action taken by the Patterson Court Women’s committee is to begin monthly discussions hosted by the women’s houses, involving faculty, staff, and students. Petty says that the goal of these discussions is to “improve faculty, staff and student relations, and to provide a support system, as well as an outlet for discussion, for women at Davidson.”

The first event will be at Connor this Thursday, March 4, at 7:00 p.m. The discussion, sponsored by all three eating houses, will feature Dr. Susan Hooks of the English Department. Her speech, “Measuring Success: A Different Standard for Women?” will be followed by an open discussion, to which everyone is invited.

VOLUNTEERS

Classical WDAV needs volunteers to answer phones during the Spring Membership Drive. The Drive will be in the Morrison Room March 20-28 from 6am-10pm.

Great Music, Free Food.

Call Sylvia at -2122 or 2128

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

Female Admitted, Then Rejected, by The Citadel

CHARLESTON (CPS) - Shannon Richey Faulkner was accepted, and then rejected by The Citadel after it was determined her high school transcripts had been altered to delete all references to her gender.

The Citadel, a state-run military school in Charleston, allows no women in its corps.

Faulkner, 18, of Powdersville, SC, applied to The Citadel and had officials at Wren High School use correction fluid to delete all gender references. She was provisionally accepted pending final transcripts, and then Citadel officials realized Faulkner’s transcripts had been tampered with.

“We received a transcript in connection with an application for admission into the corps of cadets that had been masterfully altered,” said Maj. Rick Mill, a Citadel spokesman. “The admissions policies of The Citadel are quite clear and the applicant does not meet the standards of admission.”

Use Your Amex, Feed the Hungry

NEW YORK (CPS) - American Express student members who use their charge cards between March and April will be helping to feed the homeless, officials with the financial and travel company said.

The program, Million Meals, will last from March 15 to April 30. Every time college students use their American Express charge cards to purchase anything, the company will donate a meal to Share Our Strength, a Washington-based hunger relief organization.

American Express hopes to be able to donate enough money to pay for 1 million meals, said Andy Sibert, senior manager for the American Express student card division.

New SAT Exam Planned

NEW YORK (CPS) - The Scholastic Aptitude Test may have a new name when a redesigned form of the test is introduced in the spring of 1994.

Critics say that the word “aptitude” misleads high school students and their parents into believing the test is analyzing something innate or immutable when they take the college entrance examination, said Robert Seaver, spokesman for The College Board.

Additionally, an academic study recommended a new name because the redesigned test won’t include the antonyms section and will have a longer reading section that requires students to come up with conclusions. In the math section, the students will have to generate their own answers instead of picking an answer.

Suggestions for the new name include the Scholastic Achievement Test, the Student Attainment Test and the Student Assessments for Transition. Seaver said no decision has been made yet on whether to rename the SAT.

Come see the new selections - handsome styles and exciting new colors.

Just Arrived for Spring
SHORTS, KNIT TOPS

for MEN and WOMEN

John Mack at

123 North Main St.,

Downtown Mooresville