4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993

Monitor Job Not Always Taken Seriously

Monitors Continued from page 9

"You're supposed to do things, but when you consider you’re a student here and live with the people you monitor, you may adhere to the rules to a personal degree that no other monitor corresponds to. It’s like being a judge. It’s amazing how much power they give you. The alcohol violation slips give you the ability to make someone’s life miserable, both monetarily and socially. What I try to remember is that people are down there to have fun. I’m not there to harass them or not let them have a good time.”

Another alcohol monitor, who asked to remain anonymous, said, “Maybe I don’t take my job seriously enough, but I see it as letting people do what they want as long as I don’t find out about it. I think the main reason I’m there is so that the school can’t be liable for any accidents. If I don’t see something, I don’t care. What I don’t see, I don’t know. I mean, I’m monitoring my friends! There’s really nobody I’d give a citation to. Once I was talking to a friend, and the cop asked me to check his I.D. Well, the cop left, so I didn’t write him up. I’m your advocate. If you break the rules without my knowing it, then that’s fine.”

Monitors agree that their jobs would be much easier if they did not have to give out alcohol violations. In fact, most of them have only given out a couple the entire year. Edwards feels that “if the alcohol monitor’s job was to watch for the students’ safety, there wouldn’t be as many problems. Writing citations should be the officer’s job.”

Despite all of the problems that go with the job, most alcohol monitors feel that it has benefits, also. Lopez said that “when I’m at a party where one of my friends is out of control, if I ask him to go home, he’ll listen to me. I’m his friend and my job is on the line, whereas if a cop went up to him, he probably wouldn’t listen.” In addition, Hinson says that “people are going to drink, and this is one way to keep them from killing themselves.” According to Edwards, “Being a monitor is hard, and usually not rewarding, but it’s a job that has to be done.”

Monitors do not see themselves as policemen, but after the party, Lopez signs out at the Campus Police department and hands in any violations he may have given out that night.

Application Process Well Under Way

Applicants Continued from page 1

African American applications rose from three to four. This fall Dr. Cable Wells and her staff began small initiatives which are beginning to show promise in minority recruitment. For instance, they contacted the College Board to obtain the names of high achieving African American students; a minority recruitment brochure was designed; and first-year African-American students returned to their high schools over breaks to hold Davidson information sessions. The Admission office has renewed its relationship with Charlotte high schools and has begun to recruit minorities in their junior year.

Applications are only one step of the enrollment process, however. Following the acceptance decisions, the real challenge is “to enroll the best and highest academic achievers from the accepted pool,” commented Dean Cable Wells. They are hoping for 420 first-year students to enroll in the fall of 1993.

To encourage the highest quality student to enroll, the Admission office has created a massive yield project, all to be implemented between March 5 and May 1. It begins with the acceptance...Packet. This year accepted students will also receive a letter from Dean of Academics, Bob Williams, student leaders, and regional admission counselors. A copy of both the Davidsonian and Davidson Journal will also be mailed out. Parents are included by the Parents Council letter they will receive. Current Davidson parents and students alike can participate in separate phonathons to encourage the accepted seniors. Besides external communication, the Admission office and Davidson Ambassadors are planning Decision Davidson for Saturday, March 27. This opportunity will be a final personal invitation to join the Davidson community. Accepted minority students will be invited to spend this weekend. Dr. Cable Wells commends both her hard-working staff and the faculty admission committee for their assistance and involvement. Davidson shall look forward to meeting a gifted class of 1997.

WE ARE NOT STRICTLY A MEXICAN RESTAURANT!!!
Although we do have the most extensive and most authentic Mexican menu in the area, we also feature items such as:
* Fresh Seafood
* Hand Cut Steaks
* Rotisserie Chicken & Ribs
* Pasta
* Wine by the Glass or Bottle
* Imported Beers
* Fresh Homemade Dessert

PRESENT THIS COUPON AND GET 12% OFF OF YOUR ENTREES.

Wendell’s Cafe can also handle your catering needs. Wendell’s will cater anything from a backyard BBQ to an in-house black tie party or wedding receptions! Wendell's can cater parties from 5 to 500 people.

Wendell's Cafe
Cornelius Exit 28
Hours:
Lunch: Tues.-Fri. 11:30 am - 2:00 pm
Dinner: Tues.-Thurs. 5:30-9:00 pm
Fri.-Sat. 5:30-10:00 pm
Sun. & Mon. Closed
Located in Shops on the Green
896-0078
Take-Out Available!

AIDS Awareness Healthy Study Break
9 pm 900 Room
Enjoy healthy treats & hear GEORGIA RINGLE on AIDS & Sexuality

Mon celebrate Feb. 12
The Official Story
3:30-5:30 pm Big Screen Room
Film & presentation by DR. KEMP concerning the disappearance of 1,000s in Argentina's "Dirty War".

The Awesome Voice:
7 pm 900 Room
Join the Gaden Shartse Monks of Tibet in a celebration of Tibetan culture.

CROP Lunch
11:45 am-1 pm
Room of rice and beans to show solidarity with the

Coffeehouse
8:30-11 am 900 Room
Big Screen Room

MARTY K
Experience the arts and religion of Native Americans through pottery, dancing, storytelling, and more!

Haiti: Killing the Dream
4-5:30 pm Big Screen Room
WALLACE SANDERS will speak and present a slide show on the situation in Kuwait.

International Nite
8 pm 900 Room
Experience the diverse talent of our own internationals sharing their experiences on campus.

Soul Food Study Break
10 pm BSC
Enjoy Rhythm & Blues and Salsa! It's not just for nachos!

Black Firsts
7-9 pm 900 Room
Join the women of Davidson for dinner and a discussion on past experiences, pointers, and precautions. Beets welcome - sign up at the

COUNTESS COUGINS
7 pm 900 Room
Learn how to salsa & meringue to spicy Latin American music. Free dance lessons provided by our Latin American students.

The Davidson College Union, BSC, Reach Out, SHOC, and Dean Rusk Program present: Solidarity Week