THE DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

Coeducation: A Professor's Point of View
By Dr. Gill Holland

The assignment given to me a couple of days ago was to reflect on coeducation over the last twenty years.
I can’t do it. I have been unable to rein in the horses. Allow me to start a decade earlier
and consider a larger scene. Blame the two charming students on The Davidsonian who caught me off guard.

During the summer heat of second semester examinations, which were scarcely self-scheduled in the early sixties, the students would be
writing furiously, as now, but stripped to their boxers and sweating. The high ceilings of Chambers were lowered later in
the decade to accommodate air conditioning, the wooden floors overlaid with stone. In those earlier years Love and Perkins were
not blind spaces. Standing outside east of Chambers you would have seen the spectral outline of the tall windows that
lighted and cooled the auditorium. The bald head of the Dome Room, now called Perkins, had eyes too. Under large
skylights in a semi-theatre-in-the-round, plays were performed for a smaller audience.

The patio and cafeteria in the old student union, on the site of the present E.H. Little Library, were a
crossroads. Today in good weather the present patio gives a taste of the conversation once common on campus. Just north
of that union the Davidson wildcat lived in a cage. A couple of times a week the cooks threw it
a chicken. Ah, the good old days.

At assembly, student leaders had a chance to orate; some of today’s college leaders trained there or in the forums
of Eu and Phi and the debate team. Yes, in the good old days there was Chapel, ROTC for most,
Vespers followed by visits to faculty houses, Saturday classes, and snow. Ruminations on that chicken and student snow sculptures beneath
the Chambermaids have kept me from my assignment, but even when I accepted the job I knew I would not
be able to say much more about women students at the college except welcome and thank you.

Davidson sisters had of course gone to class here before; they transferred credits and graduated elsewhere. The shift to degree-candidate
women students came, as one colleague put it, without creating a ripple in the curriculum. I have never felt that
the quality of academic discourse at the college changed much with coeducation. Some argued women would raise it. In my
judgment, however, what has been raised is the quality of the college as a society. On many a weekend in
the 1960s the college packed its bags and left. Tonight in the library, Friday, February 26th, 1993, there is hardly
a creature stirring. Some minds are whirring, as in the old days, but the...

See "Prof." on page 16

Female Class of '77 Wouldn't Change a Thing
Most Look Back on College Careers with Sense of Pride
By Yvette Pita

On the first Saturday of Susan Jonas’ freshman year at Davidson, she was invited to an off-campus rugby party because
her roommate’s brother was on the team. She was one of the only girls at the party, and there were
a number of team members running around in the nude. She thought to herself, “This is weird.”

Jonas was a member of the class of 1977, the first graduating class at Davidson that included women. According to
her, the mixture of the 60s culture, the “preppy-types,” and new girls made Davidson a strange place.

Source: 1974 Quips and Cranks

Though the first women may not have met opposition, they often bore the brunt of practical jokes.

Perspective... When Men Were Men & Women Were Guests
By Amy Branch

“... when men were men and women were guests...” While this seems like a distant and forgotten past in Davidson’s
history to many, for some this statement describes Davidson’s “glory years.” Although women have been attending Davidson for over twenty
years, there are still vestiges of Davidson’s all-male past lurking around campus. Women have certainly made their presence felt, establishing
credibility in scholarship, leadership, and athletics. We have had female valedictorians, SGA presidents, and even a Hall of Fame athlete.
These past accomplishments have helped to create a very positive “Davidson experience” for many Davidson women.

Personally, there has never been a time when I felt intimidated by a male presence in the classroom, and I
have always been wholeheartedly encouraged by my professors to push for my goals. However, it would be naive to believe
that female...Students at Davidson have nothing left to strive for or to think that all of our battles have already
been fought. After all, in what other bookstore can you still find a bumper sticker proclaiming, “A Davidson man needs
no introduction,” even though the school has been coed for two decades? While this may not be the most heinous
crime, it certainly exemplifies a mentality. It is not uncommon for a woman to write about women’s issues in The
Davidsonian without encountering negative responses from both sexes in the next edition. Although women are no longer “guests” at this
institution, they are sometimes still treated as such. Even though females have held offices and won awards, women at Davidson,
present and future, still face an immense task. They must continue to strive to fully integrate the female perspective into
Davidson’s tradition of excellence. My purpose in writing is not to chastise the male population, but rather, to inspire the
female portion. I hope to encourage Davidson women to always remember the accomplishments that females have made at this school,
but not to rest on them.

What was it like to be a female Davidson student in 1973? According to most graduates, it was hard, but
worth it. Some women of the class of '77 do not see being the first women on campus as a
contribution to their decision to enroll. According to Patricia Andrews, “It was secondary to what I was after. What I
really wanted was a good pre-med program.” She was also attracted by the low student-to-teacher ratio. Laurie Bumgarner agrees. “My
whole life I was set on going to Duke, but when I visited both schools, I realized I felt comfortable
at Davidson. I really didn’t like Duke.” In addition, Bumgarner has always thought of herself as an independent person, and
she never felt the need to be with a group of girls. She adds, “Even in high school, most of
my friends were guys.”

However, inappropriate, but the next year we set up a group of madrigal singers that women could be a part
of, also. By my senior year, enough women had enrolled to make an all-female chorus.” Andrews also contributed to the
start of female programs on campus. There were no sports for women, but she gives Davidson credit for starting them
promptly. “I was the first female athletic trainer. It was a great experience when I worked with the women’s basketball
team, and I also met my husband when he broke his finger during football season.” They were later married at
DCPC. Although many of the male students dated the new women, their reactions sometimes contributed to the female students’ struggles.
According to Jonas, “Sometimes I felt that if we were all nice southern girls, we would have been more accepted.”

Some other women, like Jonas, did take into account the fact that they would be a part of a groundbreaking
class. “I thought it would be interesting to be one of the first, but I didn’t know what I was
getting into. It turned out to be much harder than I thought.” Although most of the women agree that their
time at Davidson was hard, it was an experience that none of them would replace. When asked why her years
at Davidson were positive, Andrews responds, “Well, Davidson...”

Some of the males called us “women’s libers.” The first year we enrolled, the men still wanted to nominate outsiders
for the Homecoming court. When I said I didn’t think that was fair, one guy told me, ‘You girls are
just trying to ruin every tradition we have.’ Comments like that made it very hard, and unfortunately caused many girls
to try to blend into the woodwork because it was too painful to stick out and take abuse. “That was
the first time in my life that people saw me as a ‘woman,’ and not a ‘person’ or ‘student.’ I
felt I was doing something good for the school, but a lot of the men who didn’t want us there
made it seem like they were doing us a favor by letting us in.”

Bumgarner believes that in social situations, “there were awkward times. I think a lot of the men had chosen Davidson
so that they could concentrate on academics during the week, and date on the weekends. We had a problem with
them constantly importing other women, but we made up a saying about them: ‘Imports are girls; we’re women.’”

Mark Armstrong was a member of the class of ’77, and later went on to be the Director of Student
Life at Virginia Episcopal.

See "1973" on page 13.
