4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

NFL votes to give Charlotte and the Carolinas the Panthers
By Robert Lloyd-Still

The wait is over. On Wednesday, the NFL owners granted Charlotte an NFL expansion team. The other remaining spot will be announced November 30: St. Louis, Jacksonville, Memphis, and Baltimore are still in the running.

“This is a dream come true for me,” said Jerry Richardson, the owner of the Carolina Panthers. “Especially a dream come true for ten million people back in the Carolinas.”

The NFL was attracted to Charlotte for a number of reasons. They included the success of the NBA Charlotte Hornets, the geographical location, and the solidity of the ownership group. The football team will play their first season in 1995 at Clemson University in South Carolina. In 1996, the Panthers will play in the stadium being built in downtown Charlotte.

The social and economic ramifications of this decision are enormous. Charlotte and Davidson College will be affected in innumerable ways. Charlotte will receive more international recognition. This will result in more companies moving to Charlotte. As Charlotte grows, Davidson will feel the positive effects of the NFL’s newest expansion team.

Richardson wants to find a head coach with NFL coaching experience. The possible candidates are former Redskins coach Joe Gibbs, former Bears coach Mike Ditka, and former Patriots coach Raymond Berry.

This expansion group has been working on the project for six years. Richardson, chairman and CEO of Flagstar Companies, which own Denny’s and Hardee’s restaurants, paid $140 million dollars for the Panthers to join the league.

The Panthers’ colors will be black, silver, and blue. While the team will not open until 1995, Panther-mania has already hit the Carolinas in full force.

Sources include USA Today, and The Charlotte Observer

The Road to Davidson
Faculty concerned about Code

Excitement is beginning to build in anticipation of the Final Four.
By Wendy Lee

“The Road To Davidson.” That’s the name of a weekly television show that highlights college soccer nationally. The eyes of soccer fans all over the country will turn to Davidson College December 3 and 5 as it hosts the NCAA Division I Men’s Soccer Championship for the second consecutive year on Richardson Field.

The number of tickets available has been increased from 8,100 last year to over 10,400 this year. The increase is possible because this year, large bleachers will be placed in the end zones as well as on the sides of the stadium. For the second straight year, Davidson will surpass the 2-day attendance record for an NCAA Soccer Tournament.

Yearly the NCAA sponsors 89 National Championships. The soccer tournament at Davidson is one of only five that sells out each year. Tickets went on sale June 1, and over 8,000 were sold that first day alone. By July 30, the more than 10,400 tickets had been sold.

John Beyer of the Athletic Ticket Office noted that “We will be able to accommodate a few lucky people on the waiting list, but anyone else looking for tickets better start working on a plan to be on the roof of the library.” Beyer also said that a strong effort was made this year to get tickets to any student who wanted them. Every student was mailed a ticket application prior to June 1. Beyer feels that “every Davidson student who wanted tickets got them.”

In addition to Beyer, a host of people from the Athletic Department are working hard to make the tournament a success. Lee Sargent is Tournament Director and Pat Millen is responsible for marketing and promotions. Emil Parker will assist members of the press who will be present.

One of the greatest challenges during the tournament will be parking for over 10,000 fans. As was done last year, the empty lot by I-77 and the Exxon station will be used for parking. A shuttle service will transport fans to the Village Green. During the games, Pizza Hut, Wendy’s, and the Lion’s Club will have food booths. The Village Green will also provide food as well as entertainment for fans.

Millen noted that for the first time ever, both the semifinals and championship game will be televised live on the Prime Network—Sport South. Over 200 members of the press are expected. Spectator Sports Network in Charlotte has exclusive rights to the selling of tournament souvenirs and merchandise. Fans can purchase t-shirts and paraphernalia on the Village Green and in the stadium.

Beyer said that the NCAA has asked Davidson to enforce a “no exit policy” once people have entered the stadium. For this reason, phones will be set up inside the stadium to assist with the problem.

Honor continued from page 1

Council Chairman to meet with the faculty; it is, in fact, a regular event. In addition to the faculty's concerns about the Code's effectiveness, Davis will also address issues ranging from the trial process to the obligations of the teachers. The faculty concerns, however, will be the primary issue. Says Davis, "We know that at least one member of the faculty is very vocal in their opposition to the honor process."as it stands." He added, however, that the faculty complains about every other year. He says Dean Terry told him that several years ago the faculty complained that the Code was not working because there were too many convictions. "The very next year a different group complained that there were too few. It is just how it goes." Nonetheless, the meeting is an important one, and Davis pointed out that this year's round of complaints seems to be serious.

Explore options with Mentor Program
By Scott Windham

Since early spring, over one hundred parents and alumni have volunteered for the Mentor Program offered by the Office of Career Services. Begun last semester as the Alumni Mentor Program and expanded this fall to include parents of Davidson students and graduates, the Mentor Program allows students the opportunity to spend a half-day “shadowing” a professional in his or her workplace. A phone call to a Mentor could land you in that person’s workplace for a morning or an afternoon, observing her profession.

According to Carol Jordan, Director of the Office of Career Services, this type of close observation allows students important insight into a profession, without the time commitment of an internship. Staff members note that the Mentor Program is also a good way to make contacts which will prove useful in the search for a job. Another frequently-used way to make valuable contacts and learn more about a profession is the Alumni Resource Network. Over one thousand alumni and parents have agreed to grant informational interviews to Davidson students, either over the phone or in person. Volunteers send a fact sheet to Career Services providing phone numbers, field of employment, and a brief job description. In addition, Career Services maintains computer printouts on all Davidson alumni, indexed by location and by vocation.

Dr. Herrick R. Hay ’77, of the Paw Creek Animal Hospital in Charlotte, is a member of the Mentor Program. Dr. Hay allows students to go into examination rooms, observe and learn basic animal care, basic diagnosis, and handling and control of pets, and watch how he deals with clients. He adds that students who visit his office gain a sense of the alternatives to “standard” medicine. Dr. Hay is joined in the Mentor Program by practitioners in the fields of medicine, law, banking, education, science, non-profit, and media, to name but a few.

Achievement, Cole continued from page 1

In her address, Cole challenged her audience, and especially the members of the Class of 1994, to prepare themselves to pull the weight of the new world. She encouraged future leaders to “draw on the talents, sensitivities, and the plain old smarts of all of our people,” including women and people of color, in order to respond appropriately to our rapidly changing world. Cole cited instances in which women and minorities are “uneducated and mis-educated” in school, suppressing their talents and abilities. “To teach of the world’s heroes, and not the world’s she-roes is to tell only a part of the world’s moving action,” she claimed. Cole called for multicultural education, in which we “respect the rainbow of humanity,” not by giving up academic excellence, but by coupling it with an emphasis on diversity.

The presentation of several awards followed Cole’s address. Dean of Students Will Terry presented the Goodwin-Exxon Award recognizing high standards of character, good sportsmanship, and consideration of others to Sophomore Robin Schroeder, Junior Eric Rosenbach, and Senior Suneya Gupta. Patterson Court President Julie Petty presented Connor House with the Scholarship award, SAE with the Service award, and Rusk House with the Spirit award for Patterson Court. The Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards went to Sophomore Bo Bartholomew, Junior Patrick White, and Senior Caroline Lemley. The Alumni Association Award, presented to the Sophomore who achieved the highest GPA during the Freshman year, went to Scott Ellis. Suneya Gupta presented Omicron Delta Kappa recognition to Juniors Eleanor Hatcher, Georgio Hiatt, Anni Kirkland, Lori Logan, Lisa Lyons, and Leigh Rawdon. Will Canu, Chris Edmonston, Sally Gantt, Brad Johnson, Erin Lang, Rob Malinzak, Brett Marston, Katy McDaniel, Julie Petty, and Lisa Sitek were the Seniors recognized for this award.

Political Science Professor Louis Ortmayer received recognition for winning the Professor of the Year Award from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education, and the Thomas Jefferson award was presented to Psychology Department Chair Ed Palmer for “going above the call of duty.” Finally, Dr. Kuykendall conferred the honorary degree of the Doctor of Laws upon Johnetta Betsch Cole. Dean Terry concluded the ceremony with a benediction.