THE DAVIDSONIAN  
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief  
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor  
MANDY CURTIS - News Editor  
COURT McBRYDE - Assistant News Editor  
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor  
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor  
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor  
WILL COBB - Assistant Sports Editor  
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor  
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist  

Founded in 1914  
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

WELLS BLACK - Advertising Manager  
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager  
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager  

Finally, a Davidson woman needs no introduction

For 156 years, many Davidson men have prided themselves on the Southern heritage and national reputation of their college of choice. Most find a connection and a love for the unique situation we have at Davidson—a small liberal arts college that emphasizes the values of personal teaching and independent thinking. But it is only recently that women could experience the same warm feelings at Davidson.

1993 marks a milestone for the woman’s determination to be a part of Davidson. The Alumni Association sponsored weekend activities to celebrate the twenty years of coeducation. Alumnae from the ‘70s, ‘80s, and ‘90s attended, sharing their perspectives of a Davidson woman’s experience. Each woman’s tales were different, but generally the testimonies tended to speak of the improved and improving opportunities for women here at Davidson.

We can attribute many changes to the administration, but more importantly we should thank the women who have come before us. They made it possible for Davidson to be an institution of coeducation in which women work as professors, gender studies courses are taught, and the list of varsity sports includes women’s teams. Without the Elizabeth Kisses, the Carol Connor Willinghams, and the Patricia Cornwells (to name only a few), current students could not experience the same opportunities.

Still, we must not forget that though others have paved a path, we must follow the road. Women at Davidson now find themselves a part of a unique and wealthy heritage, though it is essentially only twenty years old. The community formed by current students and those of years passed is unbreakable. It is one based on the pioneering efforts of the first 29 women accepted as degree-seeking students in 1972 and the many who followed, facing the challenges necessary for an adapting institution.

The road, though, has not ended. The women at Davidson today should laud the efforts of those who came before, but must more importantly graduate with pride in a Davidson education and in the life led during the four years of college. We owe it to the foremothers of only twenty years ago to continue working to make a Davidson education truly a coeducation worth celebrating.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Faller insensitive to clinically depressed

To the editors,

The article at the head of last week's Opinions section, “Prozac, the wonder drug: the danger of buying happiness," both shocked and disappointed me. The flip, disparaging manner in which the author addresses clinical depression and the drug Prozac is nothing short of offensive. To compare clinical depression with problems such as "smoking, ‘loving too much,' and nail biting" belittles what can for some people be a crippling physical condition.

Clearly the author has no comprehension of clinical depression. Clinical depression is not "generally feeling down and unmotivated," nor is it mourning for the death of a loved one. Similarly, I would be surprised to find even one doctor who agreed with the analogy that the use of Prozac is equivalent to a lobotomy. Although I share the viewthat there is a risk of abusing any drug, the author's fear that someone would use a drug such as Prozac when they didn't need it is hardly valid. Prozac is not Advil or Tylenol; you certainly won't find it on the shelf at your local pharmacy. Despite the author's disclaimer that "It is not my point in any way to deny anybody who used or is presently using any chemical anti-depressant the compassion that they need and deserve," I find this article lacking in taste and sensitivity. Sufferers of clinical depression are not asking for "compassion," only an understanding and acknowledgment of what is a legitimate medical illness.

Sincerely,
Amy Cohan '94

To the editors,

We are writing in response to the September 27th article by Stephen Faller concerning Prozac and "the danger of buying happiness." Apparently, he believes that counseling and anti-depressants are a dangerous and even unnecessary treatment for clinical depression. He even goes so far as to suggest that anti-depressants are a quick fix for happiness and accuses users of "lobotomizing" themselves. Mr. Faller's lack of research is appalling and the representation of those using anti-depressants he provides is degrading. While he made the statement that he was not trying to offend those who used or are currently using anti-depressants, his ignorance concerning the area he addresses is nonetheless hurtful.

We do not know the extent of knowledge Davidson students have about Prozac and counseling services, but for those learning about it for the first time through Faller's article, we would like to clear up the inaccuracies. First of all, one cannot compare occasional periods of "feeling down" (i.e. mourning over the loss of a loved one) to the constant struggle of depression on a

See Prozac on page 8

A battle of words

To the editors,

After reading Rafael and Travis' editorial about racism and prejudice, I was confused about the definition of racism. Their definition seemed wrong. My sixth grade teacher always said, "If you don't know what a word means, look it up!" So I did. Rafael and Travis state in their column that "Minorities can be prejudiced, but not racist. Racism implies economic and political power; minorities until recently have not had access to either." The American Heritage Dictionary says racism is "1. the notion that one's own ethnic stock is superior. 2. Discrimination or prejudice based on race."

Now I think I see where Rafael and Travis got confused. They must have used the first part of the dictionary's definition and thought that "ethnic stock" is an economic term. They must think that "ethnic stock" is something like preferred

See Stock on page 10

A little slice of goodness

To the editors,

Just a little slice of goodness that is available at Davidson College: the laundry service. In this realm where we all bitch and complain about the little things that irk us (and believe me, I am not afraid to complain), I would just like to give a little praise to our laundry service. I love walking in there because I am always greeted by smiles and “afternoon.” I have never once had a problem with the service. On one occasion when I left a five dollar bill in a pair of pants, there was a note on my wrapped satchel of warm, fresh clothes that stated something to the extent of, “Money found inside, please come to the counter to collect.” Where else would my money have been given back to me? How about the fact that buttons are sewn on for free? If I ever have a suit job, I know I will miss this free button service. One time the service sewed a patch on a pair of my jeans. It cost me a whopping two dollars. Once again, I was pleased with the job well done as well as the price, and service with a smile.

So next time you go into the laundry, say “hello” and smile to Mrs. Francis Beaver, Manager of the Laundry Service, and her wonderful crew who help keep our little community happy by delivering clean clothes and a friendly greeting.

Sincerely,
Wesley Davis ’94