THE DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993

ALCOHOL POLICY

One year ago, The Davidsonian reprinted a letter from Dr. Kuykendal to the College, in which he stated his intention
to appoint the Select Committee on Intolerance. Indirectly, this committee's influence led the effort to re-write the College's Alcohol Policy
as stated in the Code of Responsibility. The Davidsonian now takes an in-depth look at the effects, the effectiveness, and
the perceptions of the revised policy.

After a Semester, Policy Receives Mixed Reviews
By Leigh Rawdon

Beginning the fall of 1992, a new alcohol policy took effect on the Davidson campus. The main objective of the
policy aimed “to uphold the laws of North Carolina in regard to the consumption of alcohol, namely that only those
twenty-one years of age and older may consume alcohol on the Davidson campus.” Other objectives sought to promote responsible drinking
and to provide education.

Lack of Respect

The new alcohol policy has been in effect for more than a semester and students are still unsatisfied with the
situation. The major concern involves the negative feelings among students rather than the actual results of the policy itself.

“I sense a tremendous anti-Davidson feeling on campus in general due to the new policy,” observes sophomore Anna Watkins. “More
people leave Davidson to go to the Pub or Backstreet or to other colleges.”

“The most significant change at this year’s parties is the lack of respect for the new alcohol policy,” comments senior
Cabe Loring. At age twenty-two, Loring is not directly affected by the policy but he understands the difficulties of his
underage friends.

The Patterson Court Council is proposing that the policy become more self-regulating in an attempt to curb the tension between
the students and administrators. Specific suggestions include a new monitor system and student-determined punishments for certain violations.

Junior Julie Petty, PCC President, notes that, “students don’t feel they had a part in creating or maintaining the policy
so they don’t respect it.” She believes that the policy has accomplished some of its goals but that the tension
created as a result has led many Davidson students to stay off the court.

Unnecessary Monitors

The PCC’s proposal focuses on risk management rather than the one cup rule. Petty stated that the PCC agreed that
the SGA’s ad hoc committee report sufficiently addressed the possibility of a two-cup rule. The council proposes that “risk” monitors
be selected by each house “to be sober, to watch for overly inebriated people, and to help in case of
an emergency.” Only one school-employed alcohol monitor would be needed to supervise IDing and beer consumption.

“At the beginning the monitors made me feel uncomfortable because their responsibilities seemed inconsistent,” says sophomore John Murchison who agrees
that monitors should serve as general safety monitors.

Weekday Party Limits

Petty also emphasized the unnecessary time limitations on parties. “Parties are a good outlet on weekdays for a break from
studying; students should be responsible,” she said.

See "Policy" on page 3

Photo Courtesy of Shelley Baker
Parties like this at Warner Hall in January seem to defy the original objectives of the current alcohol policy.

Trustee Comments on the Current Policy
By Alice Felmlee

College is a time of personal growth and freedom; yet while the rules of “Mom and Dad’s house” no longer
apply, the laws of Davidson College and the state of North Carolina do. This includes the consumption of alcohol.

Last April, the Board of Trustees with advice from the Davidson faculty composed a new alcohol policy with its purpose
being, “to uphold the laws of North Carolina in regard to the consumption of alcohol, namely that only those twenty-one
years of age and older may consume alcohol on the Davidson campus.”

According to Trustee Dr. Bill Wood, “the Board had always been concerned about alcohol abuse — not so much the
drinkers but the total abuse. It simply cameTo the point where the college was out of compliance with the laws
of the State.” In its attempt to create a more manageable policy, the Board of Trustees altered life on Patterson
Court. As the first parties of the new school year began in late August, the new policy with its one-cup
ban on alcoholic punch and limited weekday party rules came into effect. This April, the Board of Trustees will convene
for its spring session. At the top of its agenda will be the assessment of the new alcohol policy. Because
the policy was initially implemented on a year-long trial basis, students may see further changes.

When recently assessing the policy, Dr. Wood, Head of the Committee on Campus and Religious Life, noted, “the use of
alcohol has not diminished but has moved to different places; however, racial problems and intolerance traced back to alcohol abuse
have subsided.” Meeting at Davidson only three times a year, the Board of Trustees has little time to sense the
general feeling of campus. Right now, they are measuring the success of the alcohol policy in an indirect way by
relying on the comments and observations of the CCRL and faculty. The alcohol policy is an issue that seems to
arouse the whole campus, and Dr. Wood pointed out, “It is necessary for students to jump into it by letting
their feelings be known and expressing their own perceptions.”

Independent Social Life Changed Little by Policy
By Christopher Torres

What has the new alcohol policy at Davidson meant for Independent drinkers? Has it really made the weekends more unpleasant
for students who don’t belong to fraternities or eating houses? In short, has the new policy changed the way Independents
drink?

Before I begin, I wish to make an important point. As an Independent and an individual, I can offer my
drinking experiences under the new system as an example. I cannot honestly speak for everyone unaffiliated with a house. The
new alcohol policy has truly had no effect on the way I drink. Surprising? It shouldn’t be. After all, I
have always done my serious drinking in my room, the one location on campus the school grudgingly sanctions. Thus, Davidson’s
administration had granted me my own status quo.

Why drink in my room? Consider the abundant Davidson nightlife first. The Korner Pub, the Par Four perhaps? Not quite
my speed. The Back Street Cafe, though refreshing, gets tired, and there’s still the problem of being underage. Charlotte offers
a better scene, but it’s twenty miles away. Besides, driving in Charlotte is an experience worth avoiding, especially after drinking.
As you can see, bars and clubs are expensive, distant, and often off-limits to those under twenty-one. Fake I.D.s are
handy but risky. And, in my case, a fake I.D. would be completely useless (last year, one of Cornelius’ finest
pulled me over suspecting I was an underage driver); I was in a moving car! Think of what a doorman
or a bartender would say. Therefore, to drink, I am often limited to the campus.

Second, ponder the number of...

See "Independent" on page 3

Campus Comments... What role does alcohol play in your life at Davidson?

“Because of varsity tennis and economics I find very little time to go out but I think that for other
people who don’t have their priorities straight the emphasis on alcohol is extremely out of hand.” —Jenn Beam, ‘94

“Alcohol is not too high on my list of priorities but it doesn’t play a lesser role than it did
last year.” —Kamil Shah, '95

“I think alcohol here is much more social-oriented. It’s not necessary but it just makes things more fun.” —Beth Lindsay,
'96

“Alcohol doesn’t really play any huge role in my life. I still enjoy going out but I don’t drink around
people that I don’t know. I’d rather be with a close group of friends.” —Claudine Abernathy, '96

“Last year alcohol was much more of an escape — to go get drunk. This year it’s a social extra,
not a necessity. Since I’m not that big of a drinker, the alcohol policy doesn’t bother me at all.” —Will
Lazenby, '95
