ARTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

Flick Review... "The Crying Game" Fails to Deliver

By Scott McLean

The maxim “curiosity killed the cat” comes to mind when I recount my excitement in last week’s issue about seeing the much-talked-about film “The Crying Game.” Well, all I’ve got to say is that it’s a good thing this cat had a couple of lives on reserve. Irish writer-director Neil Jordan’s romantic thriller failed to deliver the goods as far as I’m concerned, although it just nabbed six Academy Award nominations and at the moment is the darling of Hollywood. It just goes to show that this North Carolina boy may be further from Hollywood than he thought—not that that’s a bad thing.

The story starts off in Ireland where a band of IRA radicals kidnaps a British officer (Forest Whitaker) in an attempt to bargain for the freedom of one of their leaders who has just been captured. This group includes the slinky Jude (Miranda Richardson, Best Supporting Actress nominee for “Damage”) and the good-natured Fergus (Stephen Rea, Best Actor nominee). Fergus befriends Whitaker’s character and when their secret camp is raided by the British army, a bedraggled Fergus escapes to London to make good on the promise he made to watch after his captive’s girlfriend, Dil (Jaye Davidson, Best Supporting Actor nominee).

This one is really hard to summarize because the plot twists are so wild you can’t say anything without giving something away, so I’ll stop while I’m ahead. However, it is safe for me to say that Fergus discovers that things aren’t always as they appear to be and that he can’t escape his past. Rea is good in his role as a “bad guy” trying to make things right, and so is, to a certain degree, Davidson, as the very enigmatic Dil. The standout, however, was Miranda Richardson and she deserved a nomination for her work in this film as well. All three of the features she has made this year have garnered at least one nomination apiece (“Game,” “Damage,” and “Enchanted April”) and she is poised, along with fellow Brit Emma Thompson, for major stardom.

I don’t know exactly where this film rubbed my rhubarb the wrong way given all the talent present: maybe it was too artsy or maybe it was too British. Who knows? I do know that you probably will not be able to guess the ending (“Entertainment Weekly” says only 10% of the audience is able to do so). You will be somewhat entertained by the plot twists, and the haunting title song might catch your fancy, but whether you enjoy the work as a whole or not will in the end be purely based on individual preference.

By Ceci Combs

Heads turned at Davidson College last Monday night as a dozen men with shaved heads clad in red drapes called “draches” walked about campus, murmuring quietly amongst themselves. What most curious passers-by probably did not know is that the clan was a group of monks from Tibet on an eight-month tour of the United States. The Buddhist visitors gave a presentation in the 900 Room intended to heighten awareness of the plight of their homeland. Many Tibetans, including these monks, have been living in exile since China’s invasion of Tibet in the 1950s.

Cheme Tsering, spokesman for the group, introduced the members of the Gaden Monastery to a full house. The monks sat cross-legged on the stage with bowed heads. Incense and several tapestries lent an appropriate South Asian air to the presentation. Tsering first explained the basic philosophy of his monastery: They believe that the two things which

Photo by Casey Rogers
The monks of the Gaden Monastery visited Davidson's 900 Room Monday, February 15. The monks are renowned for their ability to produce, simultaneously, multiple sounds with their voices.To Offer Spring Break Alternatives: Water Trips Provide Adventure
By Rachel Newcomb

Over the week of March 13-19, Davidson Outdoors will sponsor two alternatives to the traditional Spring Break destinations. The two trips offered are a four-day beginner whitewater kayaking course and a canoeing expedition through the Florida Everglades.

The whitewater kayaking course is offered in conjunction with the Nantahala Outdoor Center. Located near the edge of the Great Smoky Mountains, the Nantahala Outdoor Center is the leader in whitewater instruction. The trip departs on March 19 from Davidson and no experience is necessary for participation. Instruction begins on a lake and progresses to more exciting streams as the week continues. All equipment is provided, and the price is $250 per person.

Davidson student Alexia Gregory participated in this kayaking course during the fall. “It’s a good way to get solid kayaking experience,” she offers. “They teach you basically everything you need to know about paddling and rolling the kayak.” Students sleep at a campsite and, Gregory added, the NOC is close enough to civilization that a store and restaurant are nearby. “If you love water sports, it’s a wonderful opportunity,” she says.

Additionally, Davidson Outdoors will be taking a group of students to the Florida Everglades National Park for a week. Departing from Everglades City, students will paddle through mangroves and out into the Ten Thousand Islands area in the Gulf of Mexico. Once in the Gulf, they will canoe from island to island and camp on the beach at night. “The Everglades are amazing,” says Lissa Mowris, who went on this trip two years ago. She mentioned that she saw dolphins, eagles, and manatees at very close range. “You’re right out on the ocean, and it’s very isolated. The Gulf sunsets are especially beautiful. It’s an incredible experience.” The canoeing trip costs $175.

For more information on either of these two trips, call Davidson Outdoors at -2623.

---

The things that really matter in life are acquiring knowledge and using this knowledge with wisdom and maturity. Peace, says Tsering, is up to the individual. Time does not actually change; human beings change and experience the illusion of change. The Tibetan monks have held this philosophy close to their hearts and have thus been able to tolerate China’s presence in Tibet with an amazingly peaceful state of mind. The majority of their monasteries have been destroyed, targeted as symbols of Tibetan culture by the Chinese. But, says Tsering, external factors are not always the cause of problems. He claims that the true source of happiness lies within the individual, that we are the navigators of our own lives.

Part of the Buddhists’ religious ritual includes chanting, which was demonstrated by one of the monks. The monks must train for two to three years to acquire the chanting voice, and to some, it never comes. The chanting voice was an amazing, almost non-human sound. It consisted of a series of low, vibrating starts and stops with interspersed humming.

The monks have been living in India with their spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, since 1959. Thousands of Tibetans have crossed the Himalayas into North India to take refuge with the Dalai Lama, who is...

See "Monks" on page 9

---

English Department Announces Writing Competitions

R. WINDLEY HALL WRITING AWARD
Presented to the member of the freshman class who submits the best work of fiction, non-fiction, or prose. First prize carries a $50 award, second prize: $25. Entries must be submitted to Prof. Holland.

CHARLES E. LLOYD AWARD
Presented to the best sophomore, junior, or senior personal and scholarly non-fiction essay. Entries must be submitted to Prof. Lewis.

VEREEN BELL MEMORIAL AWARD FOR CREATIVE WRITING
Presented to the sophomore, junior, or senior work of poetry, fiction, or drama. First prize carries a $100 award, second prize: $75, and third prize: $50. Entries must be submitted to Prof. Mills.

ALL ENTRIES DUE BY 5:00 PM ON THURSDAY, MARCH 11.