“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993 NUMBER 18

Residence Life Eliminates Clusters for 1993-94
By Shaye Benton

If you have caught the latest news concerning campus living arrangements, you have probably reacted — are you irate, pleased, or indifferent? Or perhaps you have not heard about the recent stir down at the RLO....

Beginning the fall of 1993, Davidson College upperclassmen will not be allowed to cluster when choosing dorm rooms. Under the new policy released by Residence Life, groups of students cannot pool their lottery numbers and move on to halls in a cluster. Instead, roommates must choose a room independent of their friends. The change in policy responds to concern over the past several months about integration among students. While Residence Life has always enforced social affiliate restrictions on every hall, the Office still received student comments on the tendencies of students to limit themselves to one group.

Richard Terry, Director of Residence Life, states in the printed explanation of the new policy: “We want to continue to commit ourselves to the promotion of openness to new people and new ways of life.” According to Terry, Residence Life has discussed this change for the last two years. However, RLO considered enacting this policy for next Fall after they recently conducted RA interviews. The greatest concern for the RA candidates, according to Terry, was the lack of interaction among students in different clusters, even if they lived on the same hall.

Students recently have raised concerns about being thrown into a new situation after having worked freshman or sophomore year to build friendships. Terry believes most students will not be isolated when choosing rooms. He said that friends most likely will continue to live on the same halls; they just may not live next door to one another. Residence Life hopes that since students may have to walk down the hall to visit friends they will also meet the people in between.

Nevertheless, some students are angry over the policy. Thad Reece and Jay Jennings disagree with the change. “In an attempt to spare the feelings of a hypothetical few who might be injured in some way by clustering, the RLO is forcing upperclassmen to relive the See "RLO" on page 3

Ice-Covered Campus...
Photo by Alice Felmlee
After a three-year drought, it snowed in Davidson Thursday night. It didn't last long, though, and few snowballs were seen flying around campus.

Statement of Purpose Under Heavy Scrutiny
By Leigh Rawdon

According to the college's current Statement of Purpose, "Davidson maintains therefore, that a college must be a worshipping as well as a studying community, if it is to be genuinely Christian." The Trustees recently appointed a committee to study the Statement of Purpose. The review is an early start to the comprehensive self-study done every ten years on every aspect of the college. The Statement of Purpose receives particular interest because the atmosphere on campus seems to call for inclusiveness, according to Dr. Alexander McKelway, professor of Religion. “In general there is a desire that the statement be more explicit about the college’s commitment to inclusiveness,” says McKelway. “The counterpoint to this is to remove from the statement the lan- See "Changes" on page 2

Eating House Changes Considered
By Rachel Dunifon

A Patterson Court Women’s Committee, established to address the concerns of women in relation to Patterson Court, has been considering ways of improving the social atmosphere of Davidson as a whole. The committee was initi-by PCC President Julie Petty, Connor Vice-President Lorie Logan, and Political Science Professor Mary Thornberry. The informal group has met several times throughout this semester and welcomes anyone interested in attending. According to Petty, the committee was originally formed out of a desire to establish a better way of coordinating self-selection activities between the three women’s eating houses. The committee also addresses ways to combat the stereotyping of the three houses, which some believe has been an increasing problem, affecting the self-selection process, and limiting houses’ diversity. While addressing these issues, the group also focused its attention on the wider issue of male-female interaction at Davidson—an area that most participants in the meetings feel needs improvement. According to Junior Amy Howard, who has attended several of the meetings, the committee wants “to facilitate more male-female interaction on campus. It is important to bring males and females together in a different atmosphere than what is found at most parties.” One means of facilitating this is a dinner event.

20 Years of Women at Davidson
By Yvette Pita

Life at Davidson before co-education was “like living at the YMCA” according to Mark Armstrong ‘77. He recalls upperclassmen telling him about the old days when men didn’t need to think about personal hygiene. He laughs and says, “Once the women enrolled, students bathed and shaved more often.” The first year of the transition was difficult for Davidson. Some male students not in favor of the change were afraid that they would lose most of their traditions. They continued "importing" women for social functions and the Homecoming Court. According to Susan Jonas, “We made the Queens girls upset when we insisted that we should start being the cheerleaders for the football team. After all, it was our school team.” Twenty years later, women's presence is felt in the classroom, in organizations, and on the playing field. In addition, they have created a healthier environment for the college. Thank the women of Davidson for cleaner, better-seeing students. See Special Section, "20 Years of Women at Davidson," pages 6 & 7.

THIS WEEK

Faculty Promotes Rape Awareness
By Sally Stone

Twenty years of women at Davidson is reason to celebrate. It also means a time to exercise precaution. In modern society, campus acquaintance rape runs rampant and Davidson College is not immune. At some point in their college career, one in six women will be raped. A new pamphlet from the Dean of Students’ office deals with this issue. The pamphlet and the student-run Rape Awareness committee were originated to spearhead precautionary efforts. The newest campus group to join the rape awareness movement is the Faculty Women’s Group. On Tuesday, February 23, the members of this group, Drs. Thornberry, Moore, Gray, Curran, McMillen, Gibson, Dietz, Molinek, Pena, and MacNeil introduced themselves to the women’s eating houses. Three professors visited each house to express their group’s concern for Davidson women’s and men’s safety in the growing climate of date rape. The Faculty Women’s Group is an advocacy organization wishing to extend their support to victims of sexual assault. They realize they are not trained counselors, but recognize that in most instances victims need a listening ear. They also mean to provide an additional option from whom victims may choose to seek help. This way, the professors stressed, victims may feel more comfortable coming forward.

NEWS: First black graduates return to Davidson. Page 2.
OPINIONS: Crumbley's "Winter of Discontent.” Page 10.
SPORTS: Rugby takes Duke. Page 14.
ARTS: Rachel reviews "Everything." Page 12. "Untamed Heart" leaves much to be desired. Page 11.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036