**The Davidsonian**

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993 NUMBER 23

Friday's "Day at the Lake" Receives Praise as Success
Participants Call for More Campus-Wide Events, Faculty Involvement

Photo by Casey Rogers
"Day at the Lake" activities ranged from Earth Day celebrations to simply lounging around.

WALT Radio to Broadcast Next Year
Station Receives Charter, Go-Ahead to Begin Programming
By Leigh Rawdon

Ever since WDAV went classical, Davidson students have sought to fill the void left for student-run radio. Finally, a group of organized students made a convincing proposal to recreate the latent WALT, an alternative radio station run for Davidson students.

WALT is not a new idea. Students in the past have tried without success to get the station off the ground. Difficulties continually arose, including an extremely limited broadcasting area and inadequate student support. The last efforts to begin WALT died in 1990, leaving little leadership and a locked station in the basement of Belk dorm.

Finally, this fall, junior Vincent Choo broke into the station. Combining energy with other interested students, Choo played a key role in organizing plans for the rebirth of the alternative radio station next fall. The group received a charter from the SGA last week. The ATC denied funding because the financial support will most likely come from a Union fund.

The executive board aims primarily to provide students with musical entertainment. They have been disappointed with the music selections available on radio stations in Charlotte, which is “the largest city without an alternative station,” according to the program director, Todd Bowman. The intent of the organizers is to feature alternative selections, including progressive, college rock, and local music. The station will also promote groups which are scheduled to play in the Davidson area. Bowman specifically mentioned the bands that play in the Union’s IPC (Intimate Performance Committee) concerts. He believes student attendance to these concerts is lacking because students are not familiar with the bands. With promotion by WALT, students will be encouraged to enjoy the up-and-coming bands.

Beetle-Infested Trees Chopped
By College Relations

Work to remove pine trees infested with Southern Pine Bark Beetle from about 20 acres of college forest land is now underway. The area is located to the northeast of the main campus, roughly between Grey Road and the college baseball field. The decision to remove the trees was made on the advice of North Carolina Forest Service agents who inspected the damage. Many pine trees in the area are already dead, and others are hopelessly infested.

The affected trees, and a 100-foot buffer of pine trees around them, are being removed by a forest products contractor in an attempt to keep the beetles from spreading to other college and surrounding land. Only affected pine trees are being removed, leaving many smaller young pines and all hardwoods standing. The area will be replanted with pines next fall. The larger trees being cut will be turned into saw timber, and smaller ones will be converted into pulpwood.

Many of the trees that are being removed were planted by the college in the 1940s in the fairways of a former nine-hole college golf course that was located on that land. Alton Hipp, a N.C. Department of Forestry ranger, said Davidson College is not alone in its battle with the pine beetle. He said there are many areas of heavy infestation currently in Mecklenburg, Cabarrus, and Lincoln Counties. One explanation for the current infestation may be that pines were weakened by Hurricane Hugo, according to Hipp.

By Alexis West

The smell from the grill, blue frisbees, and great tunes filled the air at last Friday’s first Spring Fling at the lake. As Julie Petty put it, “Who could’ve asked fora better day?” Petty, Patterson Court President, played an essential role in organizing the event. The day’s activities focused on environmental action, and in support of this, several Patterson Court houses sponsored booths promoting such things as recycling and decreasing pollution by not driving on campus. SGA President Alden Smith commented on the “Day at the Lake” by saying, “Beside the fact that the weather cooperated with us, this is just another indication that we need more campus-wide events. The only disappointing aspect of the afternoon was the lack of faculty participation.” Most everyone who attended enjoyed an afternoon of sun, games, good food, and music by the lake. Chris Edmonston agreed, “As a college, we should do this more often rather than only once or twice a year. It should be more like four or five times a year.” Thanks to all who came out and made the first “Day at the Lake” such a success.

Spring Convocation

Another concern of the WALT initiators involves increasing campus awareness of events and pertinent issues. This would include broadcasting actual campus events such as athletic events and choir concerts. By doing so, they hope to enhance campus life by providing a diverse outlet and adding another facet of variety to the college. Possibly, WALT would become another outlet and voice for students. See WALT on page 3.

Friday morning. Photo by Casey Rogers

Senior Brad Griffin accepts a theatre award from Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, who presented the departmental awards at Spring Convocation, held in Love Auditorium.

Union Outpost Director Pizzo Quits
By Mary McCrory

Since the Union Outpost opened in September, students have gathered there for evening meetings and late-night camaraderie. Until April 8th, Richard Pizzo, the Union Outpost Manager, was there to do more than take orders for pizza and nachos. Through the course of the year, he became a familiar face and friend to many as well. What students liked about Pizzo was his relaxed attitude and generosity. “I went there really late before my Humanities midterm to get a cup of coffee, and he gave me a free omelette because I looked so stressed,” said sophomore Shelly Mott.

According to Pizzo, it was necessary to quit because, "I have a real estate career, and working at night was interfering with it.” As the manager of the Outpost he had to open and close, and was responsible for money in the cash register. Frequently Pizzo would be at the Outpost until 4:30 a.m., making it exhausting to return to work by 10 a.m.

Pizzo is originally from Chicago, but moved to the Davidson area four years ago. Before working for Davidson College, he was a salesman for a photographic company, then started his own business in Charlotte. He obtained his real estate license last summer, and now works for Lake Norman Realty. He decided to take on two jobs to help pay for his sons’ education. His older son Tony is a senior at UNC-Chapel Hill, and his other son Tom is a junior at the University of Georgia.

Pizzo regrets having to leave, because he liked working with students, and very rarely had problems with anyone. “I enjoyed it, it reminded me of my boys and it helped me understand what they were going through with their exams,” he explained. As for Davidson College, he said, “Davidson is very demanding, but it will pay off in the future.”

NEWS: ATC proposes budget for upcoming year. Page 2.
OPINIONS: Nathan Seay abandons all reason. Page 7.
SPORTS: Women's Lacrosse takes seven games in one weekend. Page 11.
ARTS: Sara Carlson's Charles E. Lloyd Award winning "horse-girl flying..." Page 8. Rachel likes KP's. Page 8.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036