_ OPINIONS : 6 MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993

First off, we got overwhelmingly positive responses—and even a letter—to our articles on interracial dating. We would like to thank
everyone for their comments and support. It’s nice to know that someone out there is breathing. We decided to take
a break from the normal routine this week and discuss men and women at Davidson. Don’t worry, we'll return to
our normal berating of everyone about racism next week.

Few people at Davidson have productive and healthy relationships. Those that do are the exception rather than the rule. This
is due, at least partially, to two things: the way Davidson men and women expect each other to act, and
lack of self-esteem. Let’s take, for example, the double standards that men here (and society in general) set for women.
If a guy goes out hooking with lots of girls he’s considered a stud and gets respect, but a girl
who does the same thing is considered a slut.

We don’t want to speak out against hooking. We’re certainly not moral examples to the campus, and it’s really none
of our business who wants to procreate and who doesn’t. What we do want to speak out against is the
way people think about hooking. What bothers us is the fact that guys who hook frequently are thought of as
cool, and girls who do are thought of as sluts. If people want to hook, it’s not our duty to
stop them. But let’s look at it for what it is. Too many people here look at it for what
it is not: a trophy for a guy or a bad name for a girl. Is either one correct? Just
because a guy hooks with girls doesn’t make him cool. On the same note, just because a girl hooks with
guys doesn’t make her any less of a person. We need to apply the same rules to girls that we
do to guys. But the rules we apply to guys are wrong. We can think of few things more shallow
than judging the quality of a guy by the number of notches on his bedpost. Yet this illusion is reinforced
by back-slapping buddies and admiring girlies at parties.

Girls who complain about the way Davidson men treat Davidson women need to look among their own gender (and, in
some cases, in the mirror) to find some of the reasons why guys act this way. We’re not talking about
serious cases like rape or abuse. Nor are we suggesting that this is the only reason guys act this way
(it’s not). All we're saying is that the way some girls act reinforces the way some guys act.

Defending Bad Habits

OK, everyone. Clear your mind of everything that your mamma said was bad manners. You have been ruthlessly socialized and
need to fight back.

I want to bring so-called bad habits into the limelight. I’m tired of having to restrain myself whenever I really
need to do something that isn’t socially acceptable. Take nose picking, for instance. Why is this so bad? I mean,
you have something really annoying in your nose; you get it out. Everyone does it. Who hasn’t been busted rooting
around their nostrils while miles away on the interstate? I have a friend who goes to Williams (that proves he’s
not a complete moron). He grows out the nail of his right little finger for the express purpose of removing
inconvenient airway blockages. Gross, you say? It’s not that bad of an idea when you think about it.

Burping is another social no-no. I don’t hold my burps back that often, but when I do, I become very
uncomfortable. I’d hate to be a dainty southern belle who never lets gas see the outside of her body. I’d
be a bitch, too. And speaking of gas, let us turn now to the ultimate of social taboos. There are
many names for this phenomenon, but I'll refer to this hush-hush subject as, uh, tooting. Everyone toots. From the baddest
Harley-riding, bean-eating, leather-wearing, mo-showering man to the daintiest, ballet-dancing, Mozart-listening, vegetable-eating, skirt-wearing woman; everyone does it.

I remember the happiest day of my life. I was out to dinner with my girlfriend and decided that the
time had come for me to show her what I was really like. I chose my words well, “Honey, now
that I’ve spent well over ten dollars on you during the past three weeks, I think that we should start
just being ourselves around each other.” She looked at me over her Value Meal, mystified. Obviously, I hadn’t made my
point well enough. A demonstration was in order. So I lifted my leg and demonstrated just what I wanted to
do around her. I tooted and prepared myself for the worst. My girlfriend laughed and said, “Oh good, I’ve had
to do this all night.” Sure enough, she lifted her leg and put my toot to shame. Ever since then,
we’ve been tooting freely around each other.

The moral of this story? Our relationship is that much stronger and ever so much more comfortable. We don’t smell
that good, but we’re always happy. The world could be such a happier place if we were only more open
about normal body functions. If everyone does it, there’s nothing to be ashamed about. So next time you're sitting in
class and feel the urge to make yourself more comfortable, go for it. In the immortal words of Chaucer, “leet
flee a fart.”saying is that when guys act in a certain way to fill a certain image, and that action
receives positive reinforcement, guys respond (like Pavlov’s dog) by repeating the action. A lot of this is due to lack
of self-esteem. People who can’t rely on themselves for support look to others for it, and these others often have
no self-esteem, either. If you think that people who move into the 24-hour room the day after freshman orientation, only
to emerge with a pale green tint and sunken eyes on May 14 are the only ones with no self-esteem,
think again. People who look like the biggest studs on campus often have little self-esteem. The stud image is just
that, an image. It’s an image they create of themselves and one they think they must conform to in order
for people to like them. When this enters into relationships between men and women, it is anything but healthy. People
are afraid of being themselves, because if they don’t live up to the image, others will stop liking them. But
if you can’t be yourself around your boyfriend or girlfriend, when can you be yourself? People at Davidson need to
crack the illusion of the importance of the stud image. It’s fine for people to drink entire kegs at one
sitting, dip in their sleep, and hook up with ten people and a Trustee in one evening, if they do
it for no other reason than because they want to. But to do anything, especially to hook up with someone,
to bolster your own image and convince yourself and others that you’re cool, is shallow and manipulative. On the same
token, we can’t look at girls who hook up as frequently as many guys claim to as sluts. This reduces
them to objects with functions. Let’s look at people as people and judge each other for what we are, not
what petty images we live up to.

Pithy Irreverence... Don't Forget Your Mittens
By Sean Lind

I was reading Robert Fulghum on the toilet the other day, and I guess his neat-o allegory-ish style must have
rubbed off. I never dress right for the weather. When I wake up, I look out the window and see
the day and judge from that: A cloudless blue day with sunshine. Oh good. I’ll wear a t-shirt. I walk
outside and it’s like Antarctica - that crisp cold that makes your nipples so hard you think they'll tear your
shirt. Or maybe it’s cloudy and raining. So I bundle up and walk outside. And it’s like monsoon season in
the tropics. Every pore in my body opens at once and begins to sweat. The thing is, I hardly ever
go back inside and change. Maybe I’m stubborn or just plain stupid, but I usually stick with what I’ve got
on. I don’t listen to weather reports either. Meteorologists are on the same level as palm readers and economists. (Remember
last week’s “snow” fiasco? - The sky is falling!! The sky is falling?!) I have the same problem with people
as I have with the weather. I look at them, try to gauge the climate, and prepare myself only to
realize “Oops, smart guy, you’ve done it again.” From comfortable and confident to icy cold in one easy step.

When I was a junior in high school, I asked a girl friend of mine to homecoming. Because it was
high school, I think I asked her about 3 months in advance. Well, in the interim period between the asking
and the date, this friend of mine started seeing someone. No problem, I thought, I’ll let her go with him.
We talked about it, but she insisted that she and I go. I had asked her first; I was her
“pal” and she could talk to me and feel comfortable. Or something along those lines.

So it’s the night of homecoming and I’m dressed to kill. As I’m driving to pick her up, it starts
raining. Great. I, of course, have no umbrella. I get to her house, jog to the front door. Ring. Her
father answers. “Is Sue in?” Her father looks confused. “Why no, son. I believe she left to go to dinner
with another fella.” “Thank you,” I said. It started to rain harder. I stood there stunned, holding the corsage, which
was enjoying the watering. I sat on the hood of my car for a while after that as the sprinkle
became a downpour, wondering what the hell went wrong. The rain wet my hair, which had been drying from the
shower I had taken about 30 minutes before, and began to soak through my wool sport coat. I remember thinking
that I smelled oddly like a freshly shampooed sheep.

I caught up with Sue at school on Monday. We talked. She said I was too close a friend, her
“soulmate,” and she didn’t want to screw it up with sex. I said I had no idea sex was mandatory
on a homecoming date, but that I was glad she thought so much of me, especially in comparison with the
meathead she was seeing. She tried to explain, but all she could come up with were more lame excuses. So
I shot her. Just kidding. I didn’t shoot her. I just turned up my collar and braced myself, promising to
be more careful in the future. Have a nice day. Don’t forget your mittens. It’s probably colder out there than
you think.
