Che Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993 NUMBER 15

Dean Suspends Fraternity for Pledging Violation

Sigma Phi Epsilon Pledge Injured in Attempted "Road Trip”

By Sean Lind

On Sunday, February 1, a pledge of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity was injured during an attempted “road trip.” In
the incident, freshman Alfredo Urbino, an international student from Venezuela, received a laceration to the back of his head. Urbino
was treated at a local hospital and released. The Dean of Students Office has suspended all pledging and social activities
at SPE until further notice. Dean of Students Will Terry said that the Dean's office has also set up a
Review Committee to determine “the culpability of the fraternity as an organization in this event.”

According to the police report, at approximately 4:20 pm, Urbino was summoned to a SPE fraternity brother’s Belk dorm room
on the pretense of vacuuming the carpet. Shortly thereafter, seven SPE fraternity brothers entered the room, wrestled Urbino to the
floor, and bound his hands and feet with duct tape. Several brothers then carried Urbino down the stairs, out of
Belk, and into the laundry parking lot, intending to put him into a waiting car and “road trip” him. At
this time, two SPE pledges witnessed what was happening and pursued the brothers, attempting to rescue Urbino. In the struggle,
the brother or brothers carrying Urbino lost hold of him, and he fell headfirst onto the asphalt surface of the
parking lot. Because he was bound, Urbino was unable to break his fall and landed on his left shoulder and
the left side and rear of his head.

Committee Proposes Changes to Alcohol Policy

By Mandy Curtis

The current alcohol policy on campus underwent revision by the SGA Ad-Hoc Alcohol Policy Committee and changes have been proposed.
After reviewing the effects of the policy from the start of the 1992-93 academic year, the SGA Ad-Hoc committee found
positive and negative results and made recommendations to be approved by the Dean of Students and the Trustees of the
college.

According to the committee, headed by junior Chris Edmonston, there are two main failings of the alcohol policy. The first
is its inability to create an atmosphere of responsible drinking as it had been hoped to achieve. The second failing
is its ability to create an “Us vs. Them” attitude on campus between the students and the monitors, police officers,
and administration.

The negative results observed by the committee in the report include overall student discontent with the “dense, muddled, and confusing”
policy that has caused confusion for the students. Another negative result of the policy is the one cup “rule” which
has consistently frustrated those students of the legal drinking age. The third negative result reported by the committee is the
weekday party regulation which has “altered the social atmosphere at Davidson.” According to Edmonston, the weekday party restriction is the
aspect of the alcohol policy consistently complained about by men.

See "Alcohol" on page 5

Photo by Casey Rogers

Nine Special Olympics teams from Charlotte and the surrounding area competed this weekend in a basketball tournament held at the
Baker Sports Complex. The teams were preparing for the upcoming state tournament.

Trustees Convene for First Meeting of 1993

By Leigh Rawdon

Business was as usual for the first Trustee meeting of 1993. Davidson’s board of Trustees met February 4-5 on campus
to discuss college issues. The two-day period included committee meetings, reports, a reception with students, anddinner at faculty homes. The
plenary session was held Friday morning. Several committees reported to the board. Admissions and Financial Aid announced this year’s numbers,
including the decreasing yield of accepted students choosing Davidson. Last year’s yield was forty-six percent. The Admissions Office attributes the
declining yield to other schools’ aggressive marketing and merit scholarships.

The Educational Policy Com-
See "Trustees" on page 5

was left momentarily unconscious, his head bleeding profusely. Urbino was transported by ambulance to University Memorial Hospital for treatment and
released. Urbino’s injuries included a bruised left shoulder and a cut on the back of the head requiring eight stitches.
He is an out-patient at the Davidson College infirmary for an indefinite period of time. Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes
said that as of yet the Dean of Students Office is dealing with the problem, pending evidence that could lead
to CCRL or Honor Council involvement. The students who attempted to “road trip” Urbino have been issued a summons by
the Dean of Students Office and are being charged with a violation of Section IV, paragraph 1 of the Code
of Responsibility, which reads, in part, “...students will not engage in any form of activity which intentionally or recklessly results
in physical injury to any person on College premises... Physical abuse, threats of violence, or conduct
See "SPE" on page 3

Regional Campaign for Davidson Kicks Off in Charlotte Area
Seen as "Centerpiece" of the $150 Million Campaign
By Chris Hood and College Relations

Approximately 900 Charlotte-area alumni gathered at the First Union Atrium and North Carolina Blumenthal Performing Arts Center last Wednesday evening
as the College officially opened its Regional Campaign for Davidson in Charlotte. The program, hosted by Charlotte Campaign co-chairpeople Thomas
M. Belk ’46 and Katherine M. Belk, included speeches by President John Kuykendall ’59, former Governor James Martin ’57, and
Charlotte Mayor Richard Vinroot. The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra entertained the crowd and included an impressive solo by Joseph L. Robinson
’62, the New York Philharmonic’s Principal Oboist. First Union Chairman Edward E. Crutchfield, Jr. ’63, who is also Campaign Corporate
Gifts Chairman, helped organize the location for the program and gala. R. Stuart Dickson II ’51, Chairman of the Institutional
Advancement Committee for the Board of Trustees, served as emcee.

The Campaign for Davidson began in November of 1989. The Campaign’s goal is $150 million by June 1995, and over
$110 million has already been recorded. $20.6 million of that came in the 1992 calendar year, a figure that puts
the campaign on target to meet its overall goal by 1995. In Charlotte alone, Campaign organizers expect to raise at
least $9 million more, to bring the area’s total contribution to $30 million. “I consider this the centerpiece of the
Campaign,” said Davidson’s Director of Regional Campaigns, Gracia Slater. “We feel like we’re right on target, in spite of a
difficult economic climate.” The institutional advancement staff has lined up 75 Charlotte volunteers who will follow this gala by each
contacting five people about making pledges to Davidson. Last Tuesday the college also paid for an eight-page special insert in
the Charlotte Observer which profiled 15 Davidson alumni who are “Making a Difference” in the Queen City.

INSIDE
NEWS: Tibetan Monks Perform as Part of South Asia Week. See page 2.
Davidson Student Selected as Bone Marrow Donor. See page 4.
OPINIONS: Spain's Farewell Column. See page 7.
SPORTS: Baseball Preview. See page 12.
Men's Hoops Drop Game to Georgia Southern. See page 12.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
