OPINIONS MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Don't Deny Presence of Racism in DCPD Policy
By George Spain

In the article “‘Isms at Davidson” last week, the question was asked: “Why do African-Americans get stopped so much more frequently?” This question refers to an incident involving Chris Leak, Cedric West, and DCPD officer Moore. This article is an answer to that question.

The officer who stopped Chris Leak and Cedric West insists that this incident was motivated by genuine suspicion and not racism. He attempts to substantiate this claim by retelling the events of that night and by listing two primary factors which he believes warranted his legitimate suspicion of these gentlemen. He does this in a letter appearing in the April 5th issue of The Davidsonian. He maintains that he stopped these two gentlemen because they were unrecognizable to him and because they had a bicycle in their possession.

In an earlier article in the March 29th issue of The Davidsonian, an officer explained that it is DCPD policy to question and identify any person that they cannot recognize. If these two things—the inability of the officer to recognize Cedric and Chris, and their possession of a bicycle—were the only things to be considered in this incident, the officer would be guilty only of doing his job. But this is not the case; the element of race cannot be omitted or de-emphasized.

It is a simple and easily proven fact that more African-Americans, African-American males in particular, are approached by the DCPD than are whites or other minorities. Based solely on this reality, it is hard for me to believe that two white students, or students belonging to any other minority group, would have been stopped under the exact same conditions.

In the same article in which the policy of questioning the identity of those who warrant suspicion is explained by the officer, he also makes this statement: “There are times that for some reason a person just doesn’t look right and you feel like you have to check something out.” I cannot help but believe that the color of Chris Leak’s and Cedric West’s skin, if only in an indirect and subtle way, had something to do with their not looking right.

About one out of every four African-American males (23%) is either incarcerated, on parole, or on probation (The Washington Post Feb. 27, 1990: Pg. A3). The imprisonment rate of African-American males in the United States is 3370 per 100,000 (The Washington Post Aug. 8, 1992: Pg. A17). This number is astounding when compared to the national rate of 455 per 100,000 white males (Christian Science Monitor Feb. 18, 1992: Pg. 20). It is estimated that 80% of African-American males will be imprisoned during their lifetime (Christian Science Monitor Feb. 18, 1992: Pg. 20).

Cedric West and Chris Leak are nondescript African-American males. They possess no particular characteristics which would separate them from these statistics. They possess no particular characteristics that would distinguish them from any number of young African-American males who could have possibly been trespassing on Davidson campus that night, except one. That characteristic, their enrollment at this college, is made obsolete when they are unrecognizable. This is a key point. I do not believe that I would have been stopped under the same circumstances because I am an easily recognized physical presence on this campus, and because I visibly participate in a sport. This familiarizes me with the campus police and,

Token Integration Perpetuates Inequity
By Marilyn Ambroise

First, Caucasians only associated with other Caucasians. And African-Americans did the same, only not by their own choice. In fact, the only time Caucasians and African-Americans convened were in the instances that African-Americans were being subservient to Caucasians (e.g. housekeeping). The division between the two races meant that if any sharing was to occur, Caucasians would be in charge of the distribution and would remain with the best of everything.

Then African-Americans got angry and fought for the same privileges. Hence, the conception of integration. But does integration really exist, or is it just another idealistic term tactfully chosen to keep African-Americans quiet and to help alleviate some guilt? There are institutions all over the country that claim to be integrated but remain very segregated. I like to call it “segregation within integration.” For example, Davidson is a supposedly integrated institution, right? But have you ever been to the Commons, where almost every day most of the African-American students sit together and the Caucasian students do the same. What about at a game or on the court—the very same thing occurs.

Hold it! I know what some of you are about to say, “I have sat with someone of a race different than mine before.” Bologna! Before I move on, I suggest that you think about that defensive statement (above) and wake up. The truth is, “integration” does not work, it has never worked, and it never will work. Malcolm X said it the best: “Integration is not good for either side.” So long as African-Americans continue to be used as examples or “for the benefit of others,” instead of appreciated and respected, theto some extent, deletes suspicion. These gentlemen are not afforded this luxury. I also do not believe that a nondescript white student would have been stopped. See on page 13

DAVID
Son Days: the effects of sleep deprivation

KAVMLE CALACTIC YAN: CHW H (AT 5 Ba (HE is e, ae SsTRiP. ry wo LE ie <6 HA KMart at failures of integration will continue. African-Americans must be treated as equals in order to precipitate something positive from the foul solution of integration. In my three years here in Davidson, too many people have tried to make me feel like a second-class citizen. Very few days have gone by without the subtle suggestion that I know less because of the color of my skin. It is common knowledge here that Davidson lowers its academic standards when admitting minorities. Thus, very rarely am I treated as an equal on this campus. Why is this so? My opinion is that the cause of this is that there are so few African-Americans and other minorities at Davidson. In other words, “token integration” is the problem. Malcolm X said: “Token integration takes the place of the real thing." Sadly, white America really does not want true integration. She does not want true integration because she owns the better half of everything. There is privilege that comes with being white that I fear some Caucasians are not ready to give up. All-Caucasian institutions have better equipment than all-African-American institutions. Hence, products of all-Caucasian institutions come out with the best. When African-Americans go out on the job market, they are made to feel less qualified. The suggestion is made that African-Americans are inherently incapable of success, while the fact that most are graduates of a corrupt system goes unnoticed. And this is how African-Americans are kept “in control.” But if Caucasians let African-Americans into “their” institutions, African-Americans would be equally educated. I submit that institutions by claim to be integrated like Davidson, because they have a few African-American students and so few African-American professors you can count them on one hand and still have one finger left and a housekeeping staff that is almost exclusively African-American are not integrated. Until not only more African-American students and faculty but other minorities (e.g. West Indian Americans, Latin-Americans, Orientals) are actively searched, nothing will change. I think some would have it no other way.

Lighting Options Need to Be Examined & Enacted to Provide Peace of Mind

Light continued from page 11

from a major interstate highway and a large metropolitan area. We are indeed lucky that crime on the Davidson College Campus is not more widespread than it is. That is not to say, however, that there is no fear of crime on campus, and fear can be as much a menace as real crime. Unfortunately, Davidson is not as well-prepared as it should be to counter the threat of crime and the very real fear of crime on campus. One glaring example is the inadequate lighting on campus. Good lighting is not the sole solution to preventing crime—careful habits are an important factor as well. Nevertheless, darkness gives crime a place to hide and a place for fears to grow. We applaud the recent upgrades of lighting on campus, but feel more is necessary. There are still many well-traveled areas on campus that are not lit, and the potential of the existing lighting is wasted through the use of inadequately bright fixtures. Luckily, better lighting is one aspect of safety that can be easily improved. The number of unlit areas on campus that require wholly new light sources is small, and the existing lighting (namely light posts) could be better used by installing sodium or mercury-vapor light bulbs, fixtures which are far brighter than the bulbs presently used. The cost of such improvements would be minimal, and when considering their value in deterring both crime and fear, the costs are most insignificant. Davidson College states as one of its responsibilities creating and maintaining the best possible environment for students in order to achieve its educational goals. In the present day, safety and peace-of-mind are huge factors in maintaining that proper environment. We hope responsibility for proper safety will be more fully recognized and the matter of better lighting in particular can be addressed and remedied.

Sincerely,
SGA Security Committee
Rape Awareness Committee
Patterson Court Women’s Concerns Group
Women’s Issues Committee