12 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

Singer/songwriter David Wilcox

By Rachel Newcomb

Several factors make David Wilcox a cut above other singers who might fall into the category of “folk singers.” For
one thing, his voice is pleasant and capable of conveying a wide range of feelings that in other musicians might
not come across as sincere. His expertise at the guitar allows him to write careful, intricate songs. But most of
all, David Wilcox is as much a storyteller as he is a songwriter. His songs are laced with personal anecdotes
and humorous metaphors that lighten the serious nature of many of his lyrics.

On Saturday, November 13, a sell-out Davidson crowd was treated to an evening of his well-crafted folk melodies and homespun
stories. Because of its small size, the 900 Room was the ideal venue for an artist like Wilcox. The personal
nature of his performances lends itself more to smaller halls which allow him to connect with the audience.

Right away, it was apparent that Wilcox would do more than just perform a few songs for the audience. He
was as easygoing as if he were in a small room playing for a few friends. From time to time,
he’d tap one blue-jeans clad leg in time to the music, his guitar slung casually over his shoulder. He opened
with a song whose pertinent lyrics spoke pointedly to the mostly college-age crowd. “It’s not just what you’re given, it’s
what you do with what you’ve got,” he sang wisely. He followed this with “Sunshine on the Land,” a song
whose soft melody showcased his calm, thoughtful voice.

Wilcox sang several songs from his new album, which will be released early next year. Among these were a few
love songs that were poignant without being overly sentimental. In his most personal songs, his lyrics acquire an incredibly poetic
intensity. One song written for a lover described an intimacy “as you bravely give your all/ To the moon-soaked wall
and wind.” Another song compared a destructive relationship to a drug addiction as Wilcox sang of a beautiful and dangerous
poppy flower, the plant from which opium is derived. “Our bodies fit desperately together/ Like a needle against the vein/I
got a weakness for strong chemistry/ One touch- all resolutions change.” He then played “Farther to Fall,” a song from
his last album Home Again.

Wilcox’s storytelling abilities became more apparent as he sang a song about his Peter Pan-like difficulties in getting older. Like
the classic Hank Williams Jr. song “All My Rowdy Friends (Have Settled Down)”, this song expressed Wilcox’s inability to finally
grow up. Sarcastically he tossed out the line, “I’m the oldest in this bar/ And I’m drinking with children/ On
a field trip to observe me in my habitat.” In another song, he compared the single life metaphorically to the
life of the neighborhood block dog, who can always find a warm meal and a roof to sleep under. “They
don’t make him wear a collar,” Wilcox sang ironically. For the last part of the...Evening, Wilcox covered several songs from
his album "How Did You Find Me Here," including “Rusty Old American Dream,” the moving “Jamie’s Secret,” and “How Did
You Find Me Here?” He also played the chilling “Eye of the Hurricane,” which tells the tragic story of a
friend who dies in a motorcycle accident. One reason that David Wilcox has such intensely loyal fans is that he
is able to sing about experiences and emotions in a way that gives voice to unspoken human fears. Listening to
him sing, it is easy to identify with what he is saying. Many of his songs are about relationships, but
the lyrics are always subtle and never sappy. His lyrics deal with both the pain and the joys of life,
and his laid-back delivery makes them seem even more personal. He has an amazing rapport with his audience.

Maria Whitehead, a Davidson College junior and longtime Wilcox fan, recounts an incident at one of his concerts a few
years ago. “I was standing in the very back of the room, and he brought me up to the front
and sat me on a speaker so I could see better. I had the best seat in the house.” Wilcox
has none of the swaggering rock star mentality that makes other musicians so unappealing. He’s the kind of guy whom
you could see yourself having late-night chats with, a man who, despite his talent, seems down to earth and friendly.

Psychology Lecture
Dr. Jim Walker
"Recent Research on Human Response to the Biology of Odors"
Monday, November 29 • 4:00 p.m. • Morrison Room

The season. Hey, Special Gifts Spoken Here. Whether it's classic, cute, or unconventional, The Village Store offers a variety of
great gifts which will make the season special and shopping easy. Bring your list! We'll be happy to wrap your
purchases for free, and provide shipping service. Join us the evenings of December 1-3, Wed.-Fri. for Christmas In Davidson—a spirited,
fun celebration at 110 South Main Street, Downtown Davidson.

Call Us! 896-8007
Shops on the Green - Comelies
HOURS: 4pm-12 midnight
NEW ADDITIONS: Twisty Bread, Salad, Cheddar Cheese

LARGE CHEESE
* Additional toppings 50¢
No coupon necessary

MEAL DEAL
2 TOPPING PIZZA
ORDER OF TWISTY BREAD
2 QT. PKG. OF KOOL-AID
expires 11-28-93 • Sunday-Thursday only

2 FOR 1 DEAL (MONDAY ONLY)
2 MEDIUM PIZZAS FOR THE PRICE OF A LARGE
expires 11-28-93

SOMETHING FOR NOTHING
NEW DEEP DISH
WITH PURCHASE OF ANY MEDIUM PIZZA WITH TWO OR MORE TOPPINGS
expires 11-28-93 (THURSDAY ONLY)

LARGE 2 TOPPING PIZZA PLUS 2 LITER COKE®
expires 11-28-93

2 FOR 1 LARGE PIZZAS
expires 11-28-93

DELIVERY AREA LIMITED TO ENSURE SAFE DRIVING. LIMITED TIME OFFER. DELIVERY CHARGES MAY APPLY. PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY.
