THE DAVIDSONIAN PREVIEW MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

With the preseason just underway, The Davidsonian’s Rick Thurmond sat down with Coach Bob McKillop to discuss this year’s seniors, the Southern Conference, and some team strengths and weaknesses as he sees them heading into practice.

Davidsonian: Comment on the three seniors Ron Horton, Jason Zimmerman, and Janko Narat.

Coach McKillop: Ronald, Jason, and Janko have seen the program go from a situation of being an independent coming off four wins to a Southern Conference team that has reached the middle of the pack. We won fourteen games last year and were 25-30 seconds away from getting into the finals of the Southern Conference tournament and perhaps a trip to the NCAA Tournament. Their career here has been characterized by significant steps evolved because of a genuine sense of care and commitment that [the players] have shown to each other. A third strength would be a feeling about Davidson, now this may sound corny but, our guys are here because they chose Davidson, not because they chose a scholarship, not because they chose what they considered to be a basketball opportunity. They want to be at Davidson College, they’re proud to be at Davidson, and they’re happy to be at Davidson College. Sure they don’t wear rose-colored glasses and think that everything here is perfect, but they always look at the positive side of what is occurring here and they try to represent that in what they do in the classroom, throughout the community, and on the basketball court.

From a technical standpoint, there is no doubt that our strength is our ability to score from the perimeter. Ronald and Jason are very good shooters, as good as, I think, anyone in the country. And of course, a strength would be our depth. We are two deep and sometimes three deep [at each position]. So scoring ability and depth would certainly be the key factors from a technical and physical standpoint.

Davidsonian: Do you see them as the team leaders?

Coach McKillop: No doubt about it. Ronald and Jason are the team leaders in a very vocal manner. Janko is a quiet leader who leads by example. We are very fortunate to have three guys like that who can play leadership roles and have a sense of chemistry about themselves that is then transferred down to the team.

Davidsonian: What do you see as the team strengths?

Coach McKillop: No question about it, number one has to be our versatility. Number two has to be our sense of team chemistry. Everyone on this team understands that when the team wins they will become a star. There is not a star system on the team, [the players] do not anticipate a star system, and they do not seek a star system. That chemistry has evolved because of a genuine sense of care and commitment that [the players] have shown to each other. A third strength would be a feeling about Davidson, now this may sound corny but, our guys are here because they chose Davidson, not because they chose a scholarship, not because they chose what they considered to be a basketball opportunity. They want to be at Davidson College, they’re proud to be at Davidson, and they’re happy to be at Davidson College. Sure they don’t wear rose-colored glasses and think that everything here is perfect, but they always look at the positive side of what is occurring here and they try to represent that in what they do in the classroom, throughout the community, and on the basketball court.

Davidsonian: You mentioned the team’s excellent shooters. Will the three-point shot be a weapon this year?

Coach McKillop: I’d love to say that it will be. But I think that we can’t make that assessment at this point just because we have great three-point shooters. You need to be able to stop the opponent and you need to be able to rebound to create opportunities to shoot the three-pointer. We’re hopeful, though, that with our work and our maturity as a team we will get plenty of opportunities and more opportunities than last year to shoot the three-point shot.

Davidsonian: How about some team weaknesses?

Coach McKillop: Well, the departure of Detlef and J.D. crystallizes the need to do something in the paint with our post play. We lose the post defense that J.D. was so good at so we need to get somebody to become a defensive stopper in the post. Of course, the offensive end of that is who’s going to be able to become an offensive go-to guy in the post. Who are we going to look to get points for us? And tying all that together, how are we going to rebound? With a six-eight and seven-footer departing, there will be a void in rebounding. Detlef was our leading rebounder and J.D. was our second-leading rebounder. So those will be the three holes that we have to fill: rebounding, defensive stopper, and an offensive go-to guy down low.

Davidsonian: Do you feel comfortable now in the Southern Conference?

Coach McKillop: The Southern Conference is a conference where the media is attractive, the talent is good, the rivalries are well-documented. There is a professionalism about the Southern Conference office that makes the conference visible, gives it a tremendous sense of recognition.tion throughout the region as well as throughout the country. We have reached a point where we feel comfortable; we are no longer the new kid on the block. One thing I would like to see in the Southern Conference, I would like to see either the -Head Coach Bob McKillop academic standards of the member schools pointed more in the direction of Davidson’s academic standards or maybe add a conference team or two or three that would fit into the academic framework that we at Davidson have such a high regard for.

D: At the annual Southern Conference media day last week, Davidson was picked to finish fifth in the Conference. How do you feel about that?

M: Well, we were picked tied for fifth with Furman, so depending upon which side of the coin you look at, we could be sixth or fourth. This is an improvement from last year and maybe we can look at it from this standpoint. Last year we were picked ninth and we moved up and finished fifth. So we finished four spots ahead of where we were picked. We were picked fifth this year and if we move up four spots does that mean we’ll finish first?

1. Davidson
With three returning scorers and depth out the wazoo, the Wildcats are set to make their second season in the Southern Conference a memorable one. The hole underneath will surely be filled by a versatile group of sophomores and the best front-line in the conference.

2. Eastern Tennessee State
A perennial conference powerhouse, the Buccaneers failed to win 20 games for the first time in four years last season. That, however, will not be the case this time around. With junior transfer Robert Dogget, formerly a player at Wake Forest, the point guard position will be solidified.

3. Marshall
The Thundering Herd are loaded this year despite the loss of leading scorer Tyrone Phillips. Junior Malik Hightower should provide the offensive punch after performing well enough to be the SC Freshman of the Year two seasons ago. In the words of head coach Dwight Freeman, Marshall is "going to be a lot more well balanced this year."

4. UT-Chattanooga
The Moccasins were both regular season and conference tournament champs last year. However, with the loss of leading scorer Tim Brooks, the team will be hurting in the offensive category. Still, they could play a major role if senior Chad Copeland continues with his spectacular three-point shooting. UTC also had a solid recruiting year.

5. Appalachian State
The Mountaineers graduated the conference's leading scorer in Billy Ross, shifting their scoring load to junior forward Chad McLendon who led the SC in rebounding last season. ASU's weakness lies in its depth. Head coach Tom Apke said, "We hope going through the growing pains of playing so many young players like we did last season will reap benefits this year. But, we have to replace the top scorer in the league in Billy Ross. That's a key for us."

6. Georgia Southern
Graduation gutted the Eagles' front line and took away Charlton Young. However, head coach Frank Kerns is optimistic. "We think we recruited well," he said. "For us it's just going to be a matter of gaining experience, a maturation process. Obviously, some of these new people are going to have to plug some holes for us to be successful."

7. Furman
Two Clemson transfers should make the Paladins more competitive than a year ago. Lacking in quickness and athleticism last season, the addition of swingman Steve Harris should make a difference.

8. The Citadel
The Bulldogs are in their second season under head coach Pat Dennis who has been preaching patience to his players. That line should continue considering that the team is undersized and lacking experience.

9. VMI
The Keydets lost their last 16 games last season, a fact that does not bode well for the upcoming one. A young point-guard oriented team, Coach Joe Cantafio will have to look for leadership from freshmen, unfortunately.

10. Western Carolina
The Catamounts have gone through five coaches in nine years, deciding now to go with the experienced Benny Dees, but they're still heading for the cellar again this year.

Source: 1993-94 SC Men's Basketball Media Guide