THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS. MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

Bobby Ramsay

Consider business before granting gays civil rights.

In last week’s issue of The Davidsonian, Anna R. Kirkland advocated the passage of a Civil Rights Act to protect
sexual orientation in her article “Grant gays legal right to protect equality & justice.” It is true that, as citizens,
homosexuals should be granted the same rights as the rest of us; but an Act such as the one Kirkland
extols may actually tread on the rights of many others.

Kirkland used the example of the openly lesbian mother in Virginia whose child was taken from her because she was
gay. It was not noted, however, that this woman admittedly engaged in oral sex, which, strange as it may seem,
is a felony in Virginia. It was this admission that was the strongest influence on the judge’s decision that the
mother would be a poor moral example for the child. Almost always, the children of felons are taken from them,
despite the specific crime.

Another example used was the firing of several employees from the Cracker Barrel restaurant because of their sexual orientation. A
Civil Rights Act such as the one Kirkland promotes would preclude this kind of action. The Cracker Barrel, though, is
a private business, and if it is losing customers because of the presence of a certain individual, then it has
a right to get rid of that individual for no other reason than the survival of the business.

As an example, we will look at Joe’s Deli. Joe’s caters to a specific clientele. Many of the customers have
been patrons for decades. One day, the meat slicer quits and Joe runs an ad in the newspaper. Soon, Joe
hires Al, the new guy in town who has a great deal of meat slicing experience. Business continues to flourish,
and the loyal customers of Joe’s Deli seem to be very happy with their sliced meat. And then, somehow, it
is discovered that Al is HIV-positive. Rumors spread, and soon Joe notices that some of the regular customers haven’t been
to the Deli in a long time. Soon, business drops so low that Joe barely makes a profit one month.
One day, Joe is at the grocery store and overhears a few women talking about his deli. They say they
would never go to a deli where some guy with AIDS is cutting the meat. Now Joe knows why business
has declined. He has no choice but to fire Al.

Businesses must have business to make it, and anything that stands in the way of optimum business and profit must
be eliminated. Now, I don’t know if the Cracker Barrel was losing business because of the gay employees. However, if
it was, and the Civil Rights Act presented by Kirkland existed, there would be nothing that Cracker Barrel could do
about it. This stands in the way of capitalism, and gives inarguable rights to one group while prohibiting the success
of another.

The situation is similar for doctors. A recent article in The Charlotte Observer entitled “Dentists sued for dropping AIDS patients”
spoke of a dental center in Houston that was sued by the Justice Department for refusing to treat an HIV-positive
individual, which violated the Americans with Disabilities Act. After eight months of treatment, the patient was told in a letter:
“Due to the recent discovery of your health problems, [our dental center] has decided to cease

Seay Rations: Nathan Seay

I am even neurotic in the laundry.

I do my own laundry here at Davidson. No, I’m not going to complain about the laundry service. I agree
100% with Wesley Davis (wasn’t his letter sweet?). The reason that I do my own laundry is that I’m such
a pathetic mama’s boy; I must have my clothes fluffy soft and April fresh. I think that I am the
only person on this campus who is obsessed with using fabric softener. My clothes are the one part of me
that smells good.

You can tell a lot about a person by observing them wash their clothes. You can spot the anal retentive,
the slobs, and the hopeless. I get a sort of sadistic pleasure watching people come in who have absolutely no
idea how to work a laundry machine. One time (I swear this is not a joke) I was doing laundry,
and a guy came in who didn’t know that he needed soap to wash his clothes.

What I found out about myself is that I’m a moron. I went to the senior apartment laundry and was
incredibly disappointed that there were coin slots in the washers and dryers. I cursed the school for being cheap, ran
back to my apartment for quarters, and spent about three bucks before someone told me that the machines work just
fine without money.

One of the biggest problems in the laundry occurs when somebody’s wash is done, but they’re not there to claim
it. I never know exactly how to handle the situation. I look in the machine to see if the owner
is male or female. If the clothes belong to a male, no problem. They’re out of the machine and on
the table like a hot tamale. But if I look in the dryer and I see aHere is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

bunch of delicate ladies’ underthings, I slam that door faster than I would on that encyclopedia guy on TV. (I
had some difficulty creating appropriate similes in this paragraph. Don’t question them.) “You sexist pig. You little brown noser. Are
you afraid that some girl might think you’re a jerk?” Nay, nay, little bear. Plenty of girls the world over
think that I’m a poor excuse for a human being already. Being called a jerk is nothing new; it happens
every day. The reason I don’t touch girls’ laundry is that I know that this will happen: I'll get the
towels, t-shirts, and all the sterile stuff out just fine. But I know that at the precise moment when both
my hands are filled with dainty things from Victoria’s Secret (or worse — Frederick’s of Hollywood), the owner of these
particular panties (God, I hate that word) will come strolling through the door. I'll freeze, blush, and look very guilty.
The young lady will scream, punch me, and run into the night, yelling “Nathan Seay is a pervert” at the
top of her lungs. Some people are very polite and fold the laundry they take out of the dryers. I
don’t want to go into why I would never fold any girl’s laundry. Anybody remember Vision Quest? Let’s just say
that I’ve had several nightmares about getting busted as bad as the guy in that movie. So if you’re a
guy and you find your laundry on a table, you’re more than welcome to blame me. If you’re female, don’t
blame me for missing underwear. There’s plenty of that laying all over the laundry floor. I could have a bag
full of it any time I want.

Distributed by Tribune Media Services providing you with orthodontic treatment.

First of all, AIDS patients should not be included in the group protected by the Americans with Disabilities Act. They
have an infectious, incurable disease, not paralysis or a missing limb. Yes, they do deserve protection against discrimination, but not
under the Disabilities Act. Secondly, a doctor of any kind has a responsibility to protect his patients from possible health
threats such as the HIV virus. If that dentist in Houston feels that the AIDS victim poses a real and
unnecessary threat to his other patients, he should have the ability to discontinue service to that person. Concerns of American
businesses cannot be overlooked.

Tony Tuntasit

Women speak a different language. I was hanging upside down in the jungle gym with my best friend Danny discussing
the pros and cons of having Grover for president when all of a sudden Heather walked by and shot a
loogie at me. Immediately I knew that Heather Green, the class cubby monitor, the tall brown-haired girl with freckles, and
the cutest girl with no front teeth, was going to be the mother of my twelve children. So I did
what most five-year-old guys do when they’re in love: I yanked her pigtails. Life used to be so simple. Only
yesterday, the woman of your dreams was that little girl who tagged you during duck duck goose. Or you could
find out if a girl liked you by using one of these clever questionnaires:

Heather, do you like me? (Please check which applies)
___ Yea.
___ Nope.
___ Sort of.
___ Who are you?

As men and women get older, they start playing subversive mind games because they’re afraid of showing their true feelings.
They emit mixed signals, hand signals, no signals, and Morse code signals. I honestly don’t think that men and women
speak the same language. I actually overheard the following conversation at the Duke soccer game the other night:

KATE: What did he say about what she told him about that incident he had?
JENNY: Well, he said that she wanted him to tell her that he said he wanted him to tell her
that he how.
KATE: Really ?/!!

Perhaps women use this intrinsic code that men must somehow try to interpret and understand. I know that the guy
that wrote the book How to Understand Women and Fix a Standard Butterfly Valve Carburetor is bloody rich. Apparently, women
have the same problem understanding men. A recent issue of YM had the following headline: “100 Guys give inside dirt
on dating, relationships and why they love the Mets.” Yes, the language of the male includes philosophy, religion, literature, the
sciences, and mathematics which are all neatly packaged in the latest Baseball Weekly (This week’s issue includes an aesthetic pictorial
of John Kruk using the thighmaster). Men are just suckers.

And women are picking up on this:

EMILY: Um, so you’re in Biology right?
BOB: Nope.
EMILY: Have you gone to the new Visual Arts Center yet?
BOB: (Whistling Dixie) Uh, no.
EMILY: Did you know that the Phillies won?
BOB: The PHILLIES WON?!! Really? Wow! They’re incredible! Gosh, that means they’ve clinched!! YAHOO!!! Emily, will you marry me?!!

Clearly, women have the clear advantage over men. They’ve learned that the way to a man’s heart is through good
old baseball. Men, however, have a distorted understanding of what women want that usually ends up being completely wrong. So,
to any guys out there, if you’ve got an incredible understanding of women, come share your knowledge with me and
I'll take good notes. We’ll be bloody rich.

---

