THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993

11

Track Looks to Spring Season

Track continued from page 10

With only four women making the trip, the squad had its eyes set on the outdoor season.

Karen Marshall led the way for the lady Wildcats with an outstanding 2:27.4 clocking in the 800m. Marshall is prepared to chase the record in the outdoor 1500m this spring.

Heather Tarpley turned in excellent efforts in the 400m (65.1) and in the shot put (33'3"). Tarpley will also attack the 400m hurdles in the outdoor season.

Carolyn Meadows (2:34) led the 6th place effort for Davidson’s 4x800m relay squad of Marshall, Tarpley, Marie Grisez, and Meadows.

Coach Manson hopes that the spring will bring an end to the team’s injuries, as the women get set to topple a host of outdoor records. The outdoor season begins in two weeks at UNC-Wilmington.

Write for Sports ...
Call Robert -6645

COLLEGE GRADUATES

Put your education to work--become a

Lawyer's Assistant
“The Career for the 90's"

at The National Center for Paralegal Training

- Graduate-level American Bar Association-approved program in the Southeast.
- Employment assistance--over 1,000 employers in 38 states have hired our graduates.
- 3 month day program with housing available.
- 8 month evening program.
- Diversified Curriculum: specialize in Litigation, Corporations, or Real Estate & Probate; all courses include “Computers in the Law.”

Meet with our representative
Wednesday, March 31, 9:00-5:00

Contact College Placement Office for an appointment.
Call or write for a free brochure and more information.

The National Center for Paralegal Training
3414 Peachtree Road, Atlanta, GA 30326

Name
Address
City
College
Phone (day) (

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT RESULTS

W. Carolina
App. St.
App. St. ETSU
ETSU
ETSU
Citadel
Ga. Southern
Ga. Southern
UTC
Davidson
Davidson
Marshall
UTC
UTC
Furman
UTC
Furman
VMI

Davidson Rugby Finishes Second in Tri-State Invitational

By Dack Stackhouse

On Saturday the Wildcats traveled to Johnson City, TN to participate in the last round of the Johnson City’s Tri-State Invitational, representing clubs from Tennessee, Virginia, and North Carolina. In the first match, Davidson shut out Southwest Virginia State College.

Scotch Turner scored the first try by picking up the ball from the back of a ruck and running ten meters for a diving try.

In the second half, Turner again scored, this time on a penalty run which he initiated quickly during the confusion of an offsides call. Jamie Brown converted both tries and added a penalty kick from the midfield line, leading to the 17-0 victory for the Wildcats. Shutouts are rare in rugby, so Davidson gained much confidence through this bone-crushing win.

After the first game, the Wildcats entered the final game as the big underdogs against the formidable Johnson City Men’s Club. The ‘Cats played with intensity, holding the score even through much of the second half.

Johnson City scored first on a penalty run from three meters out. Soon afterwards, the Davidson Scrum pushed over the ball in the try zone and collapsed on top of it, yielding a scrum try. However, late in the second half, Johnson City was able to score a penalty kick, leading the Silver Bullets to a 10-7 victory over Davidson.

The Davidson Rugby Club felt very confident after their performance at Johnson City. Playing well against high-caliber teams indicates that they should do well in the North Carolina State Tournament at Greensboro.

The ‘Cats have a two-week rest and then have their final home game on March 27.

FULL SERVICE INCLUDES:

- Lubricate Chassis
- Oil Change
- Oil Filter Change
- Check Air Filter
- Check Differential Fluid
- Check Transmission Fluid
- Check Power Steering Fluid
- Fill Windshield Washer
- Check Tires
- Check Brake Fluid
- Check Battery
- Check Wiper Blades
- Vacuum Interior
- Wash Windshield

19000 Statesville Road/Hwy. 21
Cornelius, N.C. 28031
(704) 892-9834

Exit 28

Lake Lube

Westmoreland Rd.

Exit 25

Mon.-Fri. 8am-6pm; Sat. 8am-3pm

$5.00 OFF

Auto or Truck
14 Point Maintenance Check and Oil Change and Filter
Reg. $24.95
Now $19.95

1 coupon per vehicle
expires 3-31-93

Lake Lube