SPORTS. 11 MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993

Women's Lacrosse Wins Big in Weekend Invitational
By Mandy Curtis

The women’s lacrosse team was victorious over five different teams, winning all seven of the games they played this weekend in their invitational tournament hosted here at Davidson. After a round-robin on Saturday with play-offs and a final game on Sunday, the Cats swept the tournament.

Davidson first played George Mason University, defeating the team by a score of 16-1. Immediately after, the Cats upset Eastern Carolina University with a score of 11-1. For the highlight of the afternoon, the Wildcats met up against Duke and beat them 14-4. In this game, Megan Snyder scored five goals, Nancy Hilles scored four, and Jenny Plowright scored two. Goalkeeper Jen Lake made ten saves.

For the third time of the season, the Cats beat Greensboro College 8-3. It was getting late and the players were getting tired when they played NC State; however, the Cats won again by a score of 8-2. After Saturday, the teams were ranked, with Davidson on top. Play-offs and finals followed on Sunday. Because Greensboro beat NC State, the Cats played their fourth and final game against Greensboro, defeating them 8-2.

This sixth win of the tournament brought the women’s lacrosse team to the final game against Duke. According to Coach Betsy Brown, Duke was obviously the strongest of the teams invited for the weekend, despite their club status. For the final game, the Cats had to learn and execute five new plays because Duke had watched and copied much of what Davidson had done on Saturday.

Although the score was close at the half with Davidson only up by two goals, the Cats won the game 9-2. Snyder scored four goals, Plowright scored three, and Hilles scored one. Brown said that Duke “challenged us in both games” and that the entire team did a “great job. . . I’m so impressed with them.”

Three key players for the Cats this weekend were Snyder, Plowright, and Hilles. Snyder at first home had been out for two weeks after giving bone marrow but played extremely well with 18 goals and five assists. Plowright at third home scored 12 goals with 16 assists. Hilles at attack wing scored nine goals.

According to Brown, Plowright, a senior and captain for the past two years, has brought the program where it is today having much experience as a skillful and supportive player and encouraging many to either play or stick with the sport. Plowright plays center on draws, which she most often wins, and then moves to third home where she plays strong defense and offense. “Plow is an incredible player. She’s one of a kind and will surely be missed next year. I’ll never come across another Jennifer Plowright,” said Brown.

The team plays Lynchburg College and Sweetbriar away this weekend.

Men's Track Finishing Strong to Prepare for Championship
By Peter Hurtado

In their final meet before the Southern Conference Championships, the men’s track and field team showed that they have the ability to improve upon last year’s 11-point showing, posting solid performances at the Gamecock Invitational in Columbia, SC.

Seniors Dave Kerns (8:48) and Ian Stewart (8:49) fell just shy of breaking the ten-year-old 3,000m school record of 8:45. Kerns and Stewart met a fierce headwind and were forced to lead much of the race. Look for Kerns to capture the steeplechase school record at the conference meet, while Stewart chases after points in the 10,000m and 5,000m.

Duncan Spears, though faltering at the final hurdle, still managed an excellent 400m hurdle effort of 55.5. Spears, the returning conference champion in that event, is ranked fourth in the conference and should make All-Conference with a great effort.

Brandon Williams, joining the team for the final two outings, made a great impression while placing fourth overall with a high jump of 6’6". This height would have won last year’s conference meet.

In the middle distance corps, Peter Hurtado and Erik McMichael will chase the field in the 1,500m at the conference meet; both are ranked around tenth or eleventh. Joe Beach and Mike Grant will compete in perhaps the strongest field of any event at the conference meet, the 800m run. In the weight events, Rob King threw his best hammer distance of the season, while Bo Bartholomew topped his best in the shot put.

Coach Gary Andrew is confident about the team’s chances to score and “even win a couple conference championships.” The big meet is May 1 at Appalachian State.

ATTENTION: The Tennis Parking Lot Must Be Cleared Again this Weekend for the Men's Tournament
By Chris Hood

The fact that Katie Hammond arrived at Davidson as a freshman two years ago eager to play for the golf team is not surprising. That she did so knowing that Davidson has no women’s team is. As the only woman on campus expressing public interest in playing competitive golf, the junior from Beachwood, Ohio, began her Davidson golf career by attempting to make the men’s team. Unable to qualify, she has turned to playing in women’s tournaments as an individual. Hammond was attracted to Davidson by her brother,Joe, a 1991 graduate, and the College’s academic reputation. She says the lack of a women’s golf team was not a deterrent “because my first priority was academics.” She spoke with Davidson golf coach Gordon Mietz before her freshman year to see if she would be permitted to try out for the men’s team. Because Davidson does not have a women’s golf team, NCAA guidelines permit such endeavors. Though she has tried to gain support among students for a women’s club team, the interest is lacking. Thus far, she has been unable to qualify for the men’s team. “She’s an excellent golfer and a legitimate eight handicap golfer,” Mietz explained. “I have to allay her higher scores at River Run (Davidson’s home course) to the long distance playing from the championship tees.” Hammond plays from the same tees as the men in qualifying rounds, which make the course significantly longer than women’s courses. Her next step was to look into playing in women’s tournaments, representing Davidson as an individual; Mietz aided in her search for such events. She competed in the Winthrop Individual in February and at the Fighting Campbell Classic in early March. In each event, she was the only competitor playing without a team. Hammond also played this weekend in a 54-hole event hosted by UNC Wilmington. “I’ve gotten really positive responses,” Hammond said, naming Winthrop coach Eddie Weldon as being particularly supportive. “The women all want to know what it’s like being the only player for a school. It works well for me, too, because it’s more fun to compete against women than men.” Playing as a one-woman team is no great adjustment for Hammond. Her high school, Hathaway Brown School for Girls, did not offer a golf program; Hammond played as an individual. As a senior, she placed third in the state tournament. Though she practices nearly every day in nearby Mooresville and has playing privileges at River Run, Hammond spends the most time on her game during the summer, when she plays in numerous Cleveland-area tournaments. Last summer, she captured the second flight championship in the Ohio Women’s Amateur, won the consolation championship flight of the Cleveland Women’s Districts, and was the Canterbury Golf Club women’s champion. Hammond admits that playing college golf alone is particularly difficult. “It’s tough not having a team and the encouragement of other players,” she explained, “and now I’m not home with my parents like I was in high school.” Mietz remains impressed with Hammond’s abilities and is encouraged about her prospects in women’s events. “She has a very well-balanced game. Katie is a good shotmaker and is very long with her irons. She’s very competitive with other women golfers.” Hammond has the advantage of having competed individually throughout her high school career.

Women's Tennis Fares Well in SC Tournament
By Will Cobb

The women’s tennis team can hang up the rackets until next year as the season came to a close on Sunday afternoon at the Davidson tennis center on a weekend that provided gorgeous weather for the Southern Conference tournament. Before any competition, the all-conference team was announced. Davidson represented three players, juniors Jennifer Beahm for singles along with Tasha Ruth and Barbara Grooms for doubles. Matches began on Saturday morning at 8:30. All top six singles players advanced in straight sets, including Davidson’s #1 player Cyndi Hess, who upset the #4 seed from Marshall University 7-5, 7-5. This match was the closest out of all Davidson competitors, and it was a big victory, insuring Hess of a top four finish. Unfortunately, the second round of play did not go as well for the Wildcats. Of the six singles players, only two advanced to the championship round, Susannah Cobb and Nicole Wilcox. Cobb defeated UT-Chattanooga 6-2, 6-2 and Wilcox needed an extra set to defeat App. State 6-2, 3-6, 6-4. None of Davidson’s top four advanced as Beahm, Kimberly Nance, and Sarah Heer were all upset in straight sets. “We took some unexpected hits in the 2nd round of singles and hope to regroup and make up ground in doubles,” said Coach Price. The doubles teams of Ruth and Grooms, and Beahm and Wilcox both advanced to the second round. On Sunday, Davidson aimed to pass ETSU for 2nd place. In singles, Hess and Beahm both finished 4th, as Hess fell to Furman and Beahm lost to ETSU. Both Nance and Heer bounced back from second round losses to claim 3rd overall in their respective flights. Wilcox and Cobb both finished strong with second place finishes to players from Furman. In doubles action, Nance and Heer were able to finish 5th at #1 while #2 Ruth and Grooms fell to Furman in the championship match. In the closest doubles match of the weekend, #3 Wilcox and Beahm fell to Furman 6-4 in the 3rd set of the finals. Due to good finishes by the doubles teams, the Cats were able to claim 2nd place by one point over ETSU. Players and Coach Price were pleased with the finish, as well as the successful year Davidson had in its 1st year back in Southern Conference play.