THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

The Davidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

WELLS BLACK - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

Drawing the line

Each year The Davidsonian runs into the problem of publishing opinions pieces that offend members of the Davidson community. In the past, these writings have sent parents, administrators, and students alike running for their computers and notebooks to write letters of complaint. But each year it happens again. The section seems at times to encourage alcoholism, blatantly sexual behavior, and complete disavowal of formerly established moral standards.

However, as students, we operate in a culture that is unsure of right and wrong, there are few distinctions about what is morally correct, and there is even less evidence that as journalists we should dictate morality. Our writers must decide these issues for themselves. There is a fine line between playing the devil’s advocate and simply being offensive. That line becomes less distinguished when being offensive is the goal—the aim being to influence in a hardball, in-your-face manner.

The writers also face the problem of being members of a youth sub-culture. While age is not an excuse for our behavior at this point in our lives, the language, ideals, and lifestyles of Davidson students vary greatly from that of the rest of the paper's audience. The better part of that audience is both older and more certain of its moral beliefs, while we are still deciding. But students also live, as do all people, in a community that is far from even keel in terms of what is appropriate. One needs to look no further than the enormous popularity and outspoken criticism of radio and TV personality Rush Limbaugh for evidence of the disparity between what is appropriate and what is not.

But our writers' membership in a unique culture with its own developing ideals is one of the undeniable strengths of the paper. While one issue cannot possibly give the reader full insight into the workings of the Davidson campus and its students, prolonged exposure to The Davidsonian gives an unparalleled view of a unique lifestyle.

In our quest for guidelines on this issue, we turned to Press Time, a college-level textbook published by Prentice Hall and designed to teach students the logistics of journalism. The book points out that students at schools such as Davidson cry censorship when administrators direct that certain words or stories not be published. It also goes on to read, “This raises a fine distinction: Where does reasonable editing stop and unconstitutional censorship start?” A good question.

Our answer comes from an intuitive understanding that specific terms and ideas will offend. Still, we have decided to limit ourselves in terms of editing potentially offensive ideas. Why? We do not want to limit our writers. We do not believe that it is our job to decide what is inappropriate on any level except the most basic. You will see no severe language in The Davidsonian, racism will not scour our pages, and personal attacks will not be allowed to develop beyond simple disagreements. These are obviously incorrect, but beyond this, we are poor judges of morality, and we can think of scarce few who should be placed in a position to dictate others’ ethical values.

Our philosophy sides completely with that of a 1969 Supreme Court decision stating, “A student may express his opinion on campus, even on controversial subjects...if he does so without materially and substantially interfering with the requirements of appropriate discipline and without colliding with the rights of others.” This statement, however, is still ambiguous. For that reason, we also agree with the federal judge in the 1970 case of Eisner v. Stamford: “Student newspapers are valuable educational tools, and also serve to aid the school administrators by providing them with an insight into student thinking and student problems. They are valuable, peaceful channels of student protest which should be encouraged...”

LETTERS

Faller enters the "gender war"

To the Editors,

Specifically, this is in response to last week’s letter, by Frederique Campagne. She wrote “how it can suck to be a girl.” That’s understandable. Some days being anything seems to be too much to bear. However, what I read between the lines was a cry for campus prudery, a little name-calling, and a warning that Davidson’s girls be on the watch for all the lions roaming about seeking to devour them.

It is too callous and untrue to simply say that girls labelled “slut” get what they deserve. However, behind the cynicism is a faint note of truth that shouldn’t be overlooked. I don’t mean to suggest that anyone is dirty or cheap like the name implies. I mean to suggest that the best method of getting to know someone might not be found by going to bed with some guy the first night down. If an individual wants to play those games, they should realize possible consequences. This is not to coldly say that...women should once again exercise control where men should not. That has not only been said before, but is silly. It is to say that if she doesn’t want to be used, she’d be better off not sleeping with guys who want to use her. This does not excuse womanizers. So, I enter the gender war. Its history can briefly be summed up as one gender dehumanizing the other as meat and flesh for the taking. Since then, men and women have tried to out-exploit each other. Maybe at one point it was easy to see who started the whole mess, but now there’s so much collateral “damage” it's become impossible to point the finger anywhere. Frederique’s letter also touched on the age-old double standard. Typically, this is viewed as men do what they want and women can’t. And viewed in these terms, it is no wonder why people get so riled up. I’d like to suggest something else. Doesn’t it seem strange that everyone’s familiar with two types of women? One type is the legendary kind you bring home to momma, and the other is the kind you use. One makes a great wife, and the other makes a great date, so says the double standard. And often, a guy is accused of trying to change his date into one of these if not both. A combination of both, I think, is what the media hounds refer to as a superwoman. I’d like to suggest that it represents a confusion. So many people I’ve known have wanted both a date who puts out and a “pure” bride, whatever that means. It doesn’t make sense to situate mutually exclusive things. Instead of blaming one sex or another, it seems to me more productive to try and figure out that confusion. A struggle between opposites? What are the opposites? Or a result of living in an age bombarded with noise? Any takers? Yours, Stephen Faller

Support the United Way

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the Editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Davidson College Community,

Davidson’s effort in support of the 1993 United Way Campaign has now begun, under the capable leadership of Dan Boye and Elouise Carter. We can all be grateful to Dan and Elouise for the service they are rendering on our behalf, and for their encouragement to each of us to become involved in this project which provides support for so many worthwhile services in our community.

At Davidson, we have the privilege of working with young men and women whose success in earlier years of their lives have brought them to college with bright prospects for the future. As we spend our days with such wonderful young people, though, we are increasingly aware of the many children in our area who face bleak prospects without the assistance of United Way agencies. Such programs as Cities in Schools, Success by Six, and the Family Support Center use the gifts which are directed through the United Way effort to offer a better future to children whose lives would otherwise be quite limited. Contributions have not kept pace with the needs in recent years, despite the efforts of many people at Davidson and elsewhere to participate in the broad benevolent efforts of the United Way.

If you have donated to United Way in the past, I certainly hope you will continue to do so, and even consider a modest increase to help meet increasing needs. If you have not given in recent years, I hope you will take the time to study the variety of programs and services which United Way supports. It has been my experience that the staff and volunteers of the United Way are ready and willing to respond to any concerns about allocation of its resources, and to provide ready alternatives for the designation of gifts to specific causes. This is one of the few select causes for which Davidson College provides the option of a payroll deduction, and there is always the possibility of allocating some or all of your contribution to the agency of your choosing. Also, pledges from Davidson employees living outside Mecklenburg County can usually be credited to your local fund. Simply indicate those choices on your pledge card and your stipulations will be honored.

Thank you for your careful consideration of this special request.

Sincerely yours,
John W. Kuykendall