ARTS _ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 11

Still Whistlin' Dixie
Getting Drunk and country music, a tradition
By Geoff Graham

I met my Davidson “little sister” last week. She hails from the great state of New Jersey. She’s very sweet
and, although I’ve known her for a short time only, she appears to be an exceedingly fun person. Her accent
is hardly noticeable. Before I continue, let me mention that, aside from the past few weeks, she hasn’t spent much
time down South. With that said, let me surprise you. She told me (I’m dead serious) Country music isn’t that
big up North. That’s not all. She’d never heard of Garth Brooks! I don’t mean she’d never heard his music.
When I mentioned the impending Garth Brooks concert in Charlotte, she asked, “Is that a local band?” I laughed. “Good
joke,” I said. She didn’t laugh. Apparently, Country really isn’t popular up there.

I’ve been wondering about this for a few days. Why isn’t it appreciated? Why isn’t Country the music of choice
for all self-respecting Americans? Without listing all the possible reasons (I might offend a great many of you if I
did), I’ll get down to it. I finally concluded that Country just wasn’t properly introduced North of the Mason-Dixon line.
To make up for this unfortunate discrepancy, I’ve compiled a short list (in no order but that in which they
came to mind) for my little sister and the possible hundreds more like her attending the great institution of Davidson
College. These aren’t particularly the best songs, but perhaps the best representative. They will give the listener a sense of
what Country is all about. Here is your heartache, here is your joy, here is your wisdom.

Clint Black’s “Killin’ Time” definitely has some key ingredients of a true Country song: Gettin’ drunk and missing someone who’s
left you. The latter is certainly the most frequent theme in Country, but frequency by no means signifies importance. The
former is every bit as notable. In fact, the two generally go hand in hand. To quote Doug Stone: “If
you’re drinkin’, you’ll start thinkin’, ‘bout...”

See Dixie on page 13

Body Piercing
More and more students are putting metal into their bodies
By Rachel Newcomb

I can’t remember a time when I didn’t want my ears pierced. Probably the main reason I wanted them pierced
so badly was because I had been forbidden by my parents to get them pierced until I was eighteen. At
the age of eleven, I decided I was tired of waiting. Unfortunately, I had no money and no parental permission
to get my ears pierced at the mall. So I decided to do it myself. Luckily, someone had left a
pair of gold starter studs at my house once before, and I’d kept them for a couple of years, thinking
someday I could possibly use them. I numbed my ear with ice, stuck a needle through, then pulled it out
quickly and put in the starter stud. No problem. I waited until school the next day to pierce the other
one in front of a crowd of admiring, or probably aghast, sixth graders. I didn’t even use ice this time.
They were all impressed.

For a few days, I didn’t tell my mother. I had fairly short hair, but I tried to keep it
over my ears as much as possible, and even went through a charade of making earrings out of construction paper
and telling my mother I was making jewelry. The construction paper was nice, and it covered my ears pretty well,
but I realized I couldn’t wear paper earrings forever. So one morning, I told her. Of course, I got in
trouble; I couldn’t watch my favorite T.V. show “What’s Happening” for a month and I had to wash the family
cars. But I got to keep them. “If you wanted your ears pierced that badly that you would do it
yourself, then I guess you can keep them,” my mother sighed grudgingly. This was all a very big deal to
an eleven-year-old.

Compared to the things people are getting pierced nowadays, my personal experience pales in comparison. But I remember the rush
I felt at having pierced ears. I wanted more, so a few years later, I double pierced one ear. I
even pierced the ears of some of my male friends when that became the rage in high school. This is
by no means an endorsement of the do-it-yourself method. I was lucky; they’ve never gotten infected. I know now, and
probably knew then, that doing it yourself isn’t very smart. If you’re thinking of having something pierced, visit a professional.

Screaming at the freshmen

Lead singer Greg Humphries led his band, Dillon Fence, to Kappa Sigma on Saturday night as part of the fraternity's
"first night down" festivities. The freshmen were allowed down on Patterson Court for the first time that night and were
able to attend parties at almost every fraternity as rush got under way. See related story on page 1.

Photo by Casey Rogersprofessional. It was a few years after my own sixth-grade experience that I realized people often pierce
parts of the body other than the ears. In the past few years, there has been a greater acceptance of
body piercing. A recent article in Creative Loafing newspaper entitled “Body Piercing Finds the Mainstream” attests to this fact. However,
body piercing is still the exception rather than the rule.

The concept of body piercing is not new. According to the article in Creative Loafing, the Egyptians pierced their navels
as a sign of royalty. Techniques such as lip piercing are a tradition in some cultures.

"At about the age of three or four, practically every person gets their nose pierced in Nepal. The family I
was living with encouraged it, and I just wanted to. By the time we left, all the girls on the
trip had gotten their noses pierced.” She had never thought about having it done before going abroad but felt like
it would be a good experience in participating in the culture of Nepal. I asked her about the procedure that
was followed in Nepal for piercing the nose. “It was in a jewelry shop; they used a gun. It’s not
like they took a spear or anything and drove it through. It did get a little bit infected and swelled
a lot. The mother I was living with took a tiny branch from the garden and put it where the
post had been. The infection went away.” Was it painful? “No, it didn’t hurt that badly. It looks painful, but
it isn’t. For me, earrings are more uncomfortable. They get caught on things, whereas having your nose pierced is very
low maintenance.” She mentioned that she didn’t pierce her nose to make any sort of statement. “It’s a very natural
thing in Nepal. It’s part of the culture. It was something I just wanted to do.”

In the Creative Loafing article, a professional body piercer from Charlotte mentioned that body piercing is a ritual, something that
makes people more spiritually aware of their bodies. It is possible to pierce almost any body part, from tongues to
nipples to belly buttons, even to genitalia. At Davidson, several students besides Jen have pierced body parts other than the
ear. One student has a nipple ring. Another sports a pierced tongue. Both wish to remain anonymous. The student with
the pierced tongue told me, “It didn’t hurt that bad. I really don’t even notice that it’s there.” According to
Wendy Propst, the body piercer in the Creative Loafing article, there are some special techniques that must be followed.

See Piercing on page 13

---

Movie Review: "Hard Target" is "The Real McCoy"
By Scott McLean

As a special added bonus, this week’s “critic’s corner” will feature a double billing: “The Real McCoy” with Kim Basinger
and “Hard Target” starring Jean-Claude Van Damme. Now y’all may be asking yourselves, “Scott, what did we do to deserve
this royal treatment—two movies in one week?” Well folks, the pace was a little slow in McLeanland this time around
so I was able to squeeze an extra flick into my schedule. I work tirelessly so I can give you
the latest word on as many current films as possible in order to broaden your entertainment horizons. You know, I
think that may be my problem—I give ‘til it hurts.

Anyway, first up is “The Real McCoy” in which Kim Basinger plays the title character Karen McCoy, a bank robber
out on parole and forced back into burglaring in order to save her kidnapped son. To begin with, you know
something’s up when Kim emerges from prison after six years looking like she was ready to do a Vogue cover.
Not that I particularly minded this, but it didn’t exactly do wonders for the credibility of the film. Child, if
that’s what prison will do for a woman then I can think of several individuals that need to be serving
life. However, that’s just the tip of the iceberg as the movie goes from bad to worse (and I’m talking
really bad) and I think all that needs to be said is that I can nap at home for free,
you know what I’m saying? I feel for Kim here though, because she is probably looking for every bit of
work she can get in order to pay off the $9 million fine she owes the producers of “Boxing Helena”
for breaching an oral agreement to star in that film. Maybe new hubby Alec Baldwin can give her a loan
so that we will be spared this and any other future stinkers she feels forced to do.

Moving right along, next is the action/adventure thriller “Hard Target” with Jean-Claude Van Damme as a down and out soldier
hired to investigate the deaths of homeless victims. I had heard excellent things about this film and I’m glad to
say they were all true. Acclaimed director John Woo presents the action as an art form through slow-motion photography which
is really pretty nifty to watch. And as if that weren’t enough, he also makes the most interesting use of
a snake I have seen in the movies since “Conan the Barbarian.” Suffice it to say that I thought “Hard
Target” was too Damme bad (sorry, I couldn’t resist) - a definite thumbs up.

That’s all for this week, folks, but stay tuned ‘cause in subsequent weeks I'll be tackling some pretty heavy pictures
that you won’t want to miss. ‘Til next time, so long!
