SPORTS 14 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

Davidson strikes huge TV deal with future Final Fours in mind
From the Campus Chronicle

Strange but true... The key to making the NCAA Soccer Championships a marketing success is to try to disappoint as many people as possible every year by denying them access to the games. That’s the philosophy that has driven Pat Millen, director of sports marketing, in creating a package of television shows that have the potential to vastly increase soccer’s popularity in America. Davidson is hosting the 1993 and 1994 NCAA soccer semifinal and final games, but the television package created this summer might give the college a big role in an increasingly popular event indefinitely.

“The key to making the championships bigger and better isn’t a larger site than Richardson Field here at Davidson, but a national television audience,” says Millen. A larger television audience inevitably creates more demand for tickets. If Davidson can develop a large television audience for soccer, the dollars raised for the NCAA from ticket sales will be increasingly insignificant compared to the sale of television rights, and Davidson’s leadership in developing the market will help it remain a “player” in the event. Millen said Davidson officials never expected the tournament to...

Men's soccer — gets set for UNCC match Thursday
By Will Cobb

After a couple of tough losses to top twenty teams, the Davidson soccer team begins preparation for county rival UNCC. The Wildcats’ record now stands at 1-2 on the season after losing to the fourteenth-ranked South Carolina Gamecocks 5-0 last Wednesday. The Cats got their first win of the season by defeating Syracuse University 4-1 two days earlier. In the Syracuse victory, Ben Hayes scored twice, Andy Haile once, and Reed Maltbie recorded his first career goal. Davidson played their first three games in only five days and have come together as a team quickly. The eight-day break between their last game and UNCC on Thursday allows the coaches and players ample time to work out their problems.

Coach Slagle, who is pleased with the team’s talent, has concern about a lack of leadership displayed on the field. With the loss of many experienced players from last year’s squad, this year the team has encountered more unforced errors, difficulty with defensive movement, and a general lack of control. This situation will improve game by game once players become more comfortable and used to playing with each other. There is an excellent level of talent on the team so big wins should be expected as much as disappointing losses.

The soccer team now looks forward to its big match with cross-county rival UNCC this Thursday at home at 7:00 p.m. This will make the third top twenty team in four games. With the return of Mack Cozier, arguably the fastest soccer player in the country, the 49ers have a potent offense. UNCC is coming off a big win over Clemson and a big upset loss to Virginia Commonwealth. This game is traditionally close and intense, and this year should be no different. UNCC is quick to remind everyone the last time Davidson officially beat them. But Davidson knows who played in the Final Four last year and who did not, and Davidson knows who choked last year and who did not. Come help fill the stands this Thursday to greet our Cats at their first home game.

Photo by Casey Rogers
Senior Katherine Anderson sets up for the spike in practice last week. The volleyball and field hockey teams traveled to Washington, DC this weekend.

Volleyball set for fall season
By Peter Amidon

If 1992 was seen as the transition year with new coach Carolyn Blake taking over the helm, 1993 should provide the results of this change of leadership. The first few weeks of this young season do indeed demonstrate results. The team returns five lettermen from a year ago. Seniors Katherine Anderson and Amy Howard will serve as captains for a squad which reflects tremendous balance with two seniors, two juniors, a sophomore, and a freshman starting. Junior Lori Logan returns as the starting setter. Hampered by a broken bone in her foot last season, she returns healthy and experienced. Anderson and Howard hope to dominate at the net this season with Howard playing outside hitter on the right side for the first time in her career. Junior Carol Bitter enters the starting line this season and will play outside hitter. Sophomore Michele Augustin returns healthy and explosive after earning Southern Conference Freshman of the Year a season ago. Freshmen Tara Smith or Jenny Bruner will also start...For the Wildcats, freshman Ami Bondurant will back up Logan at center. A tough schedule will challenge the Cats this season. Already, they have competed in the Georgia Tech Tournament and placed second. They lost to eventual champion Georgia Tech in the opening match. They then went on to defeat Eastern Carolina, Coastal Carolina, and Winthrop to finish second. Head Coach Carolyn Blake commented: “I was really pleased with our play. We did exactly what we needed to do to win, and I think we played better than the scores showed against Georgia Tech.”

Davidson will open a five-game stint at home beginning with the Tarheels of North Carolina on September 14 at 7:00 p.m. Co-Captain Howard reflects on her hopes for the team by stating, “We hope to raise our level of play and become a dominant force in the Southern Conference.” The time for transition is over, and now is the time when a healthy and talented Wildcat team will prove themselves.

Millen got involved with the television deal because the NCAA was essentially uninterested in working on it, Millen said. Sensing the possible benefits, Davidson bought the TV rights for the two semifinal games from the NCAA more than six months ago and started trying to interest sponsors in the event. “It didn’t take long, though, for us to realize that live...

See Package on page 16

---

Football struggles to 7-3 loss at Sewanee

By Robert Lloyd-Still

Davidson knew that their first three games were going to be extremely tough. On Saturday, the Cats played their hearts out. Unfortunately for Davidson, they fell a little short, losing 7-3. On the first possession of the second half, Davidson marched 69 yards and Drew Fassett hit a 28-yard field goal. Sewanee came back with a score of their own when Carl Cravens ran the ball in from 36 yards. Cravens was tough all day. He rushed the ball 29 times for 150 yards. Davidson had plenty of opportunities in this game. Twice they had the ball deep in Sewanee’s territory but were unable to capitalize. Davidson threw an interception from the 16 on one drive and fell short on a fourth down at the seven-yard line on another.

While the Cats only managed a field goal on the day, they did move the ball up the field extremely well in the second half. Davidson’s quarterback, Richard Howell, played another fantastic game in his illustrious career. Howell passed for 112 yards and ran the ball for 101. The defense was the story of the day for Davidson. They managed to sack Sewanee’s quarterback six times. The defensive line, led by Mills Ariail and Curtis Burns, put pressure on the quarterback all day long. And some credit is due to the secondary who covered the receivers so well that some of those sacks were due to coverage.

In the second half, the Cats played strong offensively. They controlled the line of scrimmage and created huge holes for the runners. Seniors Jack Barry and Rob King created the gaps that helped Davidson rush the ball 40 times for 191 yards. With the running game in high gear, wide receivers Ike Bailey and Kelly Shirley worked underneath the defense for short completions. If the Cats can play an entire game like the second half on Saturday, there should be no trouble in winning games this year. Davidson plays their first home game versus Rhodes College at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday.

---

Football Statistics from the Charlotte Observer

Scoring
1 2 3 4 F
Davidson 0 0 3 0 3
Sewanee 0 0 7 0 7

D- Fassett 28 yd FG
S- Cravens 36 yd run (Hardy kick)
Att.- 2,000 (at Sewanee, Tenn.)

Davidson Sewanee
First downs 16 11
Rushes-Yards 40-191 46-121
Passing 112 85
Return Yards 5 63
Comp-Att-Int 13-26-1 10-17-2
Punts 7-45.5 5-41
Fumbles-lost 2-1 1-0
Penalties-Yards 5-62 8-89
Time of possession 28:50 31:10

Individual Statistics

Rushing-Davidson: Mills 1-16, Bannister 16-82, Howell 22-101, Holzworth 1-minus 8.
Sewanee: Cravens 29-150, Morrison 5-16, Young 12-minus 45.

Passing-Davidson: Howell 13-26-1-112.
Sewanee: Young 10-17-2-86.

Receiving-Davidson: Bailey 5-54, Holzworth 3-23, Shirley 2-17, Mills 3-18.
Sewanee: Goss 4-46, Underwood 2-28, Morrison 1-12, Cravens 3-0.