Che Babidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXIV MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993 NUMBER 16

Tuition Increases by 8.3% For Upcoming Calendar Year

By Mandy Curtis

The tuition and fees of Davidson will increase by 8.3% for the 1993-94 academic year. This will place the total student charges at $21,037. Required charges including tuition, laundry, and activity fees will come to $16,263. The room rate, based on double occupancy, will cost $2,470. The meals, applying to those students on the full meal plan with the College Dining Service, will amount to $2,304.

The final decisions for tuition and fees were made by the Board of Trustees in their recent meetings this February. This was after the Budget Committee, including members such as the President, Vice-President, Athletic Director, Dean of Admissions, and College Controller, came up with a recommended budget to be approved by the President and finally, the Trustees.

Compared to the 8.9% increase for the 1992-93 year, the overall increase of 8.3% “represents a decrease in the increase,” according to College Controller, Edward Kania. A letter to Davidson students and their parents from President John Kuykendall explained that “attracting and sustaining the right people—students, faculty, and staff—is the most important financial priority of the College.”

The greatest amount of the year’s increase will go to compensation for faculty and staff as well as to the increasing needs for financial aid. Changes in programs, price of goods and services, operating costs, and activity costs also account for the annual increase in the total charges. Kania explained the “reality of Davidson” is that “we are tuition dependent.” There are two reasons for this: the small student body and the size of the College endowment compared to other institutions.

However, Davidson still ranks 79th out of 111 select private institutions in the country for total student charges. Two years ago, Davidson was placed 80th out of 108 schools. According to the president, “our situation remains virtually the same.” According to Kania and Kuykendall, Davidson is committed to providing the students with the best liberal arts education at the lowest cost. Kuykendall stated in his letter, “I will guarantee our best effort, now.

Admission Office Sees Increase in Applicants

By Sally Stone

Davidson’s class of 1997 may seem distant to current students, yet to the Admission office the class of ‘97 is their priority. With the applications deadline of February 1, the Admission office is “working literally around the clock” to select Davidson’s next freshmen class by March 5, says Dean of Admission Nancy Cable Wells.

As of February 9, 2,331 regular decision applications had been received. This is an increase of 95 applications from 1992. For early decision, 227 students submitted applications; 165 were accepted. International student applications rose to 161 versus 153 in 1992. The Admission office currently is reading these applications. After each folder is read by an admission member, he or she presents it to his or her colleagues, where they work “to render a shared decision.” If any questions arise, the faculty admission committee is asked to make the final decision.

For the first time in several years, the faculty committee is reading approximately twenty percent of random applications. The committee’s chair is Dr. Mahoney; the other members are Drs. Barton, Beeston, Serebrennikov, Foley, and McCulloh. While minority student applications have risen in the past year, Dr. Cable Wells noted that minority recruitment and enrollment is “among [the Admission office’s] highest priority.” She stressed her office’s goal to follow “the strategic plan in continuing to diversify the campus.” Asian students’ applications rose from 54 to 76; African American applicants increased by ten, from 36 to 46; in 1992, 33 Hispanics applied compared with this year’s 39; and Native American applications increased from 2 to 3.

See "Applicants" on page 4

Days of Old...

SAE's "3:01 Club" was a mainstay of first night down parties—and underage drinking. How has the revised alcohol policy affected parties like this? See Alcohol Policy Section on pages 8 and 9.and in the future, to maintain a prudent and stable approach to the determination of our costs year by year.”

Ambassador Speaks During South Asia Week
By Jeff Oller

On Tuesday, February 9, Dr. Ananda W. P. Guruge, the Sri Lankan Ambassador to the United States, spoke on “Universal and Perennial Relevance of Buddhism.” He offered insight and reflections about the usefulness of Buddhism as a cure to the many problems of modern society. “The current intellectual abilities of the modern technology-driven man are inclined towards an acceptance of Buddhism. The richer one gets, the more leisure he has and boredom and idleness set in... Buddha said ‘train the mind for a purpose,’” reasoned Dr. Guruge.

At age twenty-four, the ambassador obtained his Ph.D. from the University of Ceylon for his research into social conditions of ancient India as reflected in the Valmiki Ramayana. After working for the Ceylon Civil Service in the education field, he joined the staff of UNESCO where he was eventually elected to the executive board. Dr. Guruge has published over thirty books and 120 articles in a variety of subjects and languages. In his address on campus, Dr. Guruge gave a brief history of Buddhism explaining that Buddha, meaning “the enlightened one,” realized that a moderate lifestyle was preferable to one of self-indulgence.

See "Guruge” on page 2

Staff Photo

SGA Changes Guard
By Rachel Dunifon

On Tuesday, Davidson’s SGA held an open meeting in Phi Hall to hear the farewell remarks of former President Anthony Foxx, and to swear in Alden Smith and Alice Spivey as the student body’s new President and Vice President. At an SGA Senate dinner preceding the meeting, Dean of Students Will Terry addressed the senators, articulating some dreams that he hopes Davidson will realize in the upcoming years. These include providing a wider range of social options for students, which involves expanded programs at Baker Sports Complex, and the development of what Terry believes is a much-needed new student union. Other goals he has are providing leadership development programs to help maximize the potential of Davidson’s student leaders, involving more students in cultural events and extracurricular activities, and working to improve the communication abilities of students.

After the dinner, the meeting moved to Phi Hall, where Anthony Foxx made his farewell remarks to the student body. He cited the hard work of other campus leaders, as well as of the SGA Senate, whose “responsibility, diligence, and distinction” helped him to carry out his duties. Foxx said that throughout his term, he followed a “constant philosophy that this campus become a more inclusive environment,” and believes that “Davidson students must continue to say that this school has something for everyone.”

Former Vice President Alden Smith then took the floor, remarking on Foxx’s diligent efforts at community-building during his tenure as President. Smith recognized Foxx’s ability to communicate and command respect from faculty, students, and trustees as an essential component of Foxx’s success in his endeavors. Smith then presented Foxx with a commemorative chair, and Chancellor Leigh Rawdon gave him a plaque honoring his achievements.

After Foxx received these honors, he praised Rawdon’s service to the SGA, and led the SGA on a vote to approve Allison Sabel as the new Chancellor. Sabel was approved unanimously. Foxx then proceeded with the swearing-in of Alice Spivey as the new Vice President. In her remarks, Spivey noted her commitment to be a strong liaison between students and the SGA, and to work on such areas as student-faculty relationships, campus lighting, and trustee contacts. Foxx performed his final presidential duty with the swearing-in of Smith as the new SGA President.

INSIDE
NEWS: Movie shown for Black History month. See page 2.
OPINIONS: Sean Lind comments on Valentine's Day. See page 11.
SPORTS: Hoops sees victories. See page 13.
ARTS: Sarah Zirkle's short story, "Make Do." See page 5. Hoveland reviews Phish's latest. See page 5.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036