2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Current construction may seem to be a nuisance to some, but once it is finished all of those who attend Davidson College Presbyterian Church should appreciate the finished product. According to church administrator Carol Barber, the new additions are being completed in two phases. During the first phase, the sanctuary is being completely refurbished. Workers are repainting, re-carpeting, installing new air conditioning, and also erecting a new cross.

The second phase of construction will add space to the church. A new fellowship hall is being added which will be adjacent to the patio courtyard on the campus side. There will also be added office space, an enlarged nursery, and a new Christian education room. An addition of particular interest to students might be the new student lounge, a place for Davidson students to study and relax. The lounge will have a separate doorway so that it is easily accessible to students.

The money for the construction, which totals up to well over $1 million dollars, was almost entirely raised by members of the church. In the spring of 1992, the church began a capital funds campaign, which consisted of a fundraising council that met with members in their homes. There the members discussed plans for the church and pledged whatever they could over a five-year period. Fifteen percent of all of the funds raised has also been set aside for benevolent causes, local and global.

According to the Associate Minister, Thomas Blair, the new additions are being built to accommodate a growing membership. With the growth of North Mecklenburg county and the increased number of retirement homes in the area, the church expects to have at least 75 new members this year. Reverend Blair is very excited about the growth trend that the church is taking. “There is a new spirit afoot at DCPC,” he says, and he encourages students to get involved. Anyone wanting to get more involved with DCPC should call the church office for a schedule. Service is every Sunday at 11:00, preceded by Sunday school.

Photo by Casey Rogers
The church is going through some changes. This new addition to the building will make room for new offices, a classroom, and other additions. The money for the renovations was raised within the community and totaled over $1 million. In addition, the community provided DCPC leaders with insight into the needs of its congregation.

Students and faculty discuss the Honor Code at round table dinner
Faculty members express worry that the code is becoming ineffective and needs modification

By Martha Knight

On Wednesday, students and faculty met in a round table discussion to talk about the Honor Code and its effectiveness. Dean of Students Will Terry and Honor Council Chairman Ward Davis addressed the group before an informal exchange of ideas. Faculty and students stated their opinions about how the system has worked in the past, its present strengths and weaknesses, and suggestions for improvements.

The basic principles of the Honor Code require that students refrain from lying, cheating, or stealing. Entering students must sign a pledge agreeing to follow the rules and to report violations, handled by the Honor Council. The college handbook states that respect for this system is “an integral part of the educational experience, helping students to develop an honorable, responsible lifestyle.”

Several faculty members at the meeting expressed concern that the Honor Code is no longer as effective as it has been in past years. Some shared recent problems that have occurred involving specific violations in the classroom. Sara Beasley, English professor and 1986 graduate, says that she sees a change in the system since her time at Davidson. She served as a member of the Honor Council for four years and felt, at the time, that students took a sincere interest in the Honor Code. Beasley admits, “as an alum, I was sad to hear that the faculty perceives the code as not as effective.” She feels that many upperclassmen tend to take the system for granted and adds that she speaks to her students about the importance of their involvement.

The students responded with a mixed reaction. Some felt that a certain few disregard the principles of the Honor Code and threaten to destroy it for those who do their part. Others said that they believe students are aware of the importance of their pledge and will continue to uphold its purpose. The two groups then set some general goals. Through events like the mock honor trials, they would like to find ways to increase student awareness of the system and, in particular, the functioning of the Honor Council. Many believed that such steps would make the students feel more strongly about the positive influence of the code.

Senior Sally Stone felt that this meeting was productive. She stresses that faculty and students must work together in order to realize the best interests of the college and to make Davidson an environment in which everyone can live and work. She says that “in order to ensure that theHonor Code remains in full operation, everyone must do his part.”

Few freshmen attend court tours of fraternities and BSC

By Jay Jennings

On Monday and Tuesday of last week, the freshmen men had the traditional court tours to the six on-campus fraternities. For the first time, the Black Student Coalition was included. The number of freshmen touring was significantly lower than in years past. Amia Canada, President of the BSC, wanted to thank 4th Little, 1st Rich, and 4th Cannon for coming down to the house. The BSC includes everyone and does not interfere with membership in eating houses and fraternities.

According to Dean Terry, the court tours expose the freshmen to the variety on the court. He does not want the freshmen to put “all of their eggs in one basket” and only look at one house. For the first time, the court tours were after first night down. Dean Terry said he thought the scheduling probably had an effect on the attendance. Hall Counselor Ben Balsley felt that “curiosity would have caused more involvement” if the tours had been before first night down. Hall Counselor John Murchison thought that if it had been earlier in the year, more freshmen would have attended. Many freshmen mentioned that they had commitments that would have been avoided if it had been earlier in the year.

Terry points out that some freshmen have already secured bonds with upperclassmen and do not have an open mind. He added that it is inevitable for the freshmen to form these bonds, but it is important for them to look at all of the possibilities. The people who went on the tours, like freshman Scott Young, felt that the event was a “good opportunity to meet people from houses that they have not met.” Another freshman, Jason Schmidt, said that he got to “see who is in which of the houses.” Many people hope that the timing will be changed for next year’s tours. Ryan Harper, the President of PiKA, thought that the tours should either be made a requirement like PE 101 or be restructured. One suggestion is to model the tours after the women’s eating houses.

Health Center makes changes to fight colds

By Katherine Hash

This fall, the Davidson Student Health Center will offer three new services to students: a “Cold Center,” flu vaccinations, and a medical information hotline.

The “Cold Center” is a self-care unit which will save both students and nurses time by allowing students to evaluate their own symptoms before deciding to see a nurse or physician. The unit is located in the infirmary adjacent to the sun room. It is equipped with a thermometer, a flashlight, a mirror, and several “fact sheets.” After following the instructions at the center, students will either be advised to see the receptionist to make an appointment with a physician or directed to a list of over-the-counter medications. One-dose packages of many of these medications can be obtained from the Health Center staff. The “Cold Center” is open from 8:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.

The Health Center will offer flu vaccinations for the first time this fall. This decision came in response to student requests and to the Center for Disease Control’s recent recommendation that dormitory residents be vaccinated. According to nurse Jan Poole, the vaccine is recommended for anyone who “wishes to decrease the possibility of disruption of his daily routine by influenza.” Those vaccinated will get only a mild case of the flu or none at all. Because the influenza virus changes from year to year, vaccinations are effective for only one year. The optimal time for injection is between mid-October and mid-November prior to the peak flu season. The vaccination, which may be accompanied by side effects lasting up to one week, will begin providing protection two weeks after injection. The Health Center will be offering the vaccination Monday through Friday, October 18 to November 12 between 1:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. for a cost of $7. The staff requests that those interested in receiving the vaccination call ext. 2300 between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. before October 15.

The Health Center also wants to make students aware of a 24-hour medical and health information hotline service provided by Iredale Memorial Hospital. Tel-Med is a free, private way for students to receive answers to questions they may have on a variety of subjects including alcohol abuse, nutrition, and birth control. Calling the toll-free number (1-800-622-4633) from a touch-tone phone will connect students with a computerized library of 3-5 minute tape-recorded messages. A pamphlet containing three-digit code numbers for the over two hundred messages can be found in the infirmary and in residence halls.

AVINO'S

Pitchers of Beer

More than just great pizza! We also deliver dinners, subs, BEER and WINE!

Our Prices Can't Be Beat!

Monday Special
Buy any item from our menu, get the 2nd one 1/2 price. (Excluding drinks & appetizers)

Wednesday Special
All U Can Eat Pizza

All ABC Permits -- TV in Bar

892-4794
I-77 Exit 30, Davidson + Sadler Square
M-F 11:30-10:00 * Sat 4:00-10:00
WE DELIVER