2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

Profile

Professor Beasley '82 returns to teach where she once learned

By Krisy Ford

Sara Beasley has returned to Davidson, but this time her role is reversed. No longer is she sitting in a desk frantically jotting down notes as most students do; she is the one giving them. A 1986 graduate of Davidson, Beasley has returned this year as a visiting professor in the English department.

Upon enrollment at Davidson in 1982, Professor Beasley knew that she wanted to be an English major. “English was something I always had a great enthusiasm for,” said Beasley. “It was something I cared about, so I always strived to do well in it.” She always wanted to be a teacher, but it wasn’t until her sophomore year at Davidson that she decided she wanted to be a college professor.

After graduation she continued her studies at the University of Pennsylvania. Her specialty is English Renaissance Drama and even more specifically, Revenge Tragedy. She claims that her interest in this area began her junior year while taking a class with Professor Cynthia Lewis. “I wrote a paper in that class and became so obsessed with the concept of revenge tragedy and why the Greeks found it so interesting. After that I was hooked,” said Beasley.

In her spare time she loves to read. Her favorite author is Jeanette Winterson. Beasley loves the British author’s wittiness and is impressed with the fact that Winterson has published several books and is just a few years older than she. Although fiction and female Southern writers are her favorites, she enjoys drama from all periods.

Beasley is also a big sports fan. She tunes in to baseball and basketball games as well as participating in some sports of her own such as biking. “I also like to listen to music, but my taste is somewhat diverse,” says Beasley. She listens to anything from alternative to classical to rock-n-roll. Some of her favorites are the Judy Batts, K.D. Lang, and REM.

When asked why she returned to Davidson, Beasley responded: “It was an excellent opportunity. I feel like I received an excellent education here and now it is my goal to give back all of the same effort that was shown to me. When I was a student here, I knew the professors were smart and worked really hard, but now that I am in their shoes, I can really appreciate it.”

Beasley was always very inspired by the time put in by her teachers and the knowledge they possessed. “What I’m really trying to do is be accessible to my students.” This semester she is teaching American Literature, Freshman Composition, and Shakespeare. “Some of my old professors have said that it makes them feel old because I am back here as a professor. Actually, I feel old because so much has happened and changed since I was here.” Beasley feels a special attachment towards Davidson because it is “kind, generous, and I get a good sense from the whole place.” After completing her year here, Professor Beasley hopes to obtain a tenure track position at another college, preferably in the South.

File Photo

With Norton in semi-retirement, Raeford's is the place for a haircut.

Raeford's replaces Norton's

By Lexy Devane

When Norton’s Barber Shop closed last Spring, many students believed an era had ended. No longer could the tradition of getting “Nortonized” be an integral part of the male freshman experience. With the opening of Raeford’s Barber Shop on Main Street, students’ hopes of having a quality, old-fashioned haircut have been rekindled.

Raeford’s Barber Shop opened officially to the public on October 4th. The shop is owned by James Raeford who has been cutting hair for 30 years. Two other barbers, Ken Norton, with 51 years experience, and Joe McClain, with 40 years experience, also work part-time.

Workshop aims to help students deal

By Mandy Curtis

Students who procrastinate are not alone in their traumas to get papers in on time or to study enough for an exam. The Student Counseling Center sees many students over the year with the same symptoms of anxiety and stress related to their habitual practice of procrastinating. For this reason, the Student Counseling Service will be sponsoring a workshop, “To do, or not to do: Dealing with Procrastination,” on Thursday, October 28 at 8:30 p.m. in the Carolina Inn. Student counselors Dr. DeWitt Crosby and Dr. David Staton will be hosting the lecture and helping students to recognize their individual problems with procrastination.

DAVINO'S

Pitchers of Beer

more than just great pizza! We also deliver dinners, subs, BEER and WINE! Our Prices Can't Monday Special Buy any itemfrom our menu, get the 2nd one 1/2 price. (Excluding drinks & appetizers)

Wednesday Special
All U Can Eat Pizza
All ABC Permits -- TV in Bar
892-4794
I-77 Exit 30, Davidson
* Sadler Square *
M-F 11:30-10:00
Sat 4:00-10:00
Sun WE DELIVER

Be Beat! $4.50 $3.00

tion as well as recommending practical ways of avoiding the universal causes. According to Crosby and Staton, students usually have the biggest problems when papers are due. They explain that a common attitude is “why do today what you can do tomorrow.” With this reoccurring rationale, “tension builds” and the students find themselves staying up all night to finish a paper due the next day. Anxiety, stress, and shame are some of the emotions related to procrastination, say Crosby and Staton. They feel that if more students recognized their individual problems, they might be able to help themselves before it is too late. Staton recalled a time when a student came to him in the counseling center on the last day of exams of the second semester to say that “he thought he had a problem with procrastination.” The irony of the situation is that the student was a senior. Procrastination can be a debilitating problem for many students; learning how to deal with the habit can help deter the action, according to the student counselors. With a full-time staff in the Student Counseling center, the counselors plan to hold more workshops throughout the year.

The shop is open Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Saturday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., and is closed on Wednesday and Sunday. The cost of a regular cut is $6.00, while a flat-top is $6.25. “In the last two weeks, we have had a very successful opening. I think it is because of our good location near the school and because we give good cuts,” stated Raeford. “Kids go to other places and get their hair styled. Then they come to us because we give a good conservative cut. There is a degree of styling but mostly we cut hair the good old-fashioned way.” The promise of a good old-fashioned haircut is taken seriously at Raeford’s. The barbers use straight razors, as opposed to safety razors, and actually shave the person’s face and neck. The actual haircuts are only altered slightly from the styles popular with Davidson alumni throughout the years. Even the shop itself is stocked with tradition including four inviting barber chairs for clients to relax in. Sophomore Rhett Ingerick says, “Raeford’s Barber Shop is my last hope for some sort of tradition outside of actual school. With the close of Norton’s and Bacon and Eggs last year, I was very disillusioned because institutions of Davidson’s unique culture were dying. At least now I don’t have to go to Supercuts.” “Raeford’s is a convenient, affordable place to get your haircut,” says sophomore Scott Ellis. “It is a nice place with nice people working there who will give you a good conservative, no-frills cut well worth the price.”

Women's self-selection system faces changes
By Carrie Blackburn

Because the size of membership in the women’s eating houses varies drastically, plans have been made to address this discrepancy. In the past, freshwomen could choose a house for social purposes even if they could not eat there. Waiting lists also existed for each house. Now, however, prospective members must list the three houses Warner Hall, Connor, and Rusk in order of preference. Because waiting lists have been abolished, a computer will try to place an even number of women per house. Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes explains the necessity for change “to keep the houses from fluctuating and to slow down the cycle of up and down.” Although this new proposal does not guarantee that everyone will get the house of her choice, many seem optimistic about the revision. “I definitely think we need it. We need three houses and we need the numbers in all the houses. I think it will work,” comments Kathy Oakes, vice president of Rusk. Sarah Goldsmith, vice president of Warner Hall, an eating house which will greatly benefit from added members, echoes this feeling: “I like the spirit infused this year with self-selection with trying to unify all the women’s houses but also recognizing each house’s uniqueness.”

The Davidsonian
News Editor Mandy Curtis
Staff Writers Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Mary McCrory, Alice Felmlee, Katherine Hash, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Ashlyn Dannelly, Martha Knight, Meg Wolff, Susan Warren, Wendy Lee, Carrie Blackburn, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Shea Benton, Jenay Schroeter, Lexy Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock