_ OPINIONS - 6 MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993

Gull's Nest... There is More That Unites Us Than Divides Us

However you may view the legacy of Richard Nixon, he did come up with a memorable phrase at the height
of the Vietnam War. Nixon referred to the “silent majority” of Americans who worked hard, paid their taxes, loved their
country, tried to save for their children, and needed a great deal of provocation to speak up. I think that
perhaps we have a silent majority at Davidson.

I wrote recently that Davidson is a more “moderate” than a truly “conservative” institution, but this is not a matter
of politics. Most students here are working so hard that it takes a real effort to attend meetings, put together
petitions, or frame a thoughtful letter to this newspaper. As a freshman used to the class meetings of high school,
I believe assembling our entire class from time to time and encouraging everyone to express their opinions would prove popular
and beneficial, but it has yet to be tried.

It’s great that The Davidsonian is as much a journal of opinion as a chronicle of events. However, The Davidsonian
is not synonymous with Davidson. Anyone reading this newspaper throughout the past year would conclude that the overriding issue on
campus is “diversity,” and that student “apathy” is a major problem. The fact is that, whatever our time constraints, we
are anything but apathetic about what concerns us most directly. I believe that we are dedicated to this school, its
traditions, and its future. How else to explain why so many people applied to be Hall Counselors and Tour Guides?
It wasn’t apathy that induced the students to paint cat paws all over town during the soccer season, or for
so many service projects to find sponsorship here.

As for diversity, I think that what most Davidson students care about is simply to have good people come here.
We are not concerned with percentages, gender, or ethnicity. There is no need to “update” our Statement of Purpose. Yes,
Davidson has a Christian character. Georgetown may be run by the Jesuits, but non-Catholics and non-Christians feel just as comfortable
there. You don’t have to be Jewish to go to Brandeis, or black to go to Howard. Of course diversity,
including ideological diversity, is healthy, but everyone should be judged by a single standard. Are there too many Southerners at
Davidson? Too many Presbyterians? The Davidson tradition is what unites us, honor is its touchstone, and that does not ever
go out of style. There can never be too many good people.

The late writer Theodore White once noted that when he was a student there were really two Harvards—that of the
“grinds” like himself and that of the “snobs,” with little communication between them. There is only one Davidson. Sharing the
same ideals is much more important than having identical ideas. The laid-back Davidson of Thursday nights at Back Street is
not antithetical to the intensive Davidson of sustained Sunday studying. At the same time, workload does not define an outstanding
academic institution. Time for reflection is just as important. Davidson already boasts the primary requisite of high-quality education: an accessible
and dedicated faculty. How much we manage to get out of this environment is up to each of us, but
the opportunities are there for all.

Despite the clustering ordeal, there are still freshmen I haven’t met (who I’m sure want to hear my opinions at
closer range). Since all friendships are based on shared experiences, I will make friends with those who share my interests—even
if I haven’t met them yet. It all happens naturally. Most importantly, I hope that next year more students will
take the opportunity to speak out. If Trustees can find the time to come to campus, it is our obligation
to give them an authentic impression of how it really is here. Like in the clustering episode, student opinion can
affect change, or even resist it. Open your mouth and watch what happens. As Davidson students, there is a lot
more that unites us than divides us. I think we can all agree on that.

F.L.A.G. Panel Deserves Credit
By Will Lazenby

Before spring break some students did a courageous thing. Those students formed a panel center stage in a packed 900
Room and recounted their experiences as homosexuals. And they were warmly received. As a member of the audience, I was
at once impressed and upset. I was amazed at the fortitude of the speakers, but I was saddened that it
required a public gathering for our students to admit something that they had to keep hidden so long.

Last year there were a lot of problems on campus concerning the harassment of homosexuals. In fact, one of the
panel members in the 900 Room was a former Davidson student who transferred because he was treated so horribly. He
even received death threats. Each panel member gave an account of what life was like growing up a homosexual. And
most of them said the...same thing, that homosexuality was not a choice. Some of the members even forced themselves to
date people of the opposite sex to rid themselves of homosexuality. The forced dating didn’t work. Nothing did. Those members
of the panel that tried to fight their feelings eventually gave in to what couldn’t be fought. What members did
was finally give in to being themselves. Because of the closed-mindedness of some people, the panel members understood what they
were feeling to be wrong. They were taught that homosexuality was bad, and that homosexuals were outcasts to be shunned.
Just now are those students on the panel able to come out and say who and what they are. I
think each of us would like to change at least one thing about ourselves. If you’re like me, you’d like
to fix a lot more than one thing. But we’re stuck with us. That’s something I re-learn every day. Like
it or not, I’m just me. Some days that’s a tough lesson to re-learn. But I don’t get out of
bed to face scorn and ridicule, as many homosexuals do. And they shouldn’t have to either. It’s not right to
persecute someone for who he is. If someone is wrong about something, argue. If a person does something bad to
you, let them know. But don’t blame a person for being him or herself, especially if that person has already
tried to change. Instead, try to open up, even to put yourself in his shoes. You might sympathize, and you
might find that who that person is isn’t so bad at all.

In Black & White ... Deidra Montague & Scott Windham

Malcolm X's Message Often Misunderstood

We'd like to salute those people who held a panel in the 900 Room a few weeks ago to discuss
their lives as homosexuals. We’d especially like to salute Meg Jones, who took a potentially larger risk than others since
she’s still a student here. We were also very happy with the level of support the speakers received from the
audience. Davidson really impresses us sometimes.

By presenting both the bad and good aspects of his philosophy, we hope to eliminate some of the misunderstanding surrounding
this controversial but brilliant and influential character. What follows was written by Scott.

Contrary to popular belief about Malcolm X, his final ideology promoted acceptance of all types of people, regardless of race.
Most people are familiar with him only through the first, most outspoken years of his career as a spokesman for
the Nation of Islam. This organization, which is still strong today, insisted upon the superiority of the black race, the
inherent evil of the white race, and the need for black people to withdraw, socially and economically, from white-dominated society.
Malcolm X was saved from a miserable existence on the streets and in jail by members of the Nation, and
later helped build it into a large and successful enterprise. He rose to power within the Nation, but was ejected
shortly before his holy pilgrimage to Mecca. The trip to Mecca completely changed Malcolm’s views of white people, and he
returned to the United States determined to preach his new gospel. Assassins’ bullets cut him down in 1965 before he
had a chance to make any progress.

Many people misunderstand Malcolm X’s message. This is largely because his philosophy was being constantly developed and revised to fit
his growing experiences. There are two main parts to Malcolm’s philosophy. The part he developed early in his career is,
in many ways, contradictory to the part he developed late in his career. Early in his career, at the time
when Malcolm was very active in the Nation of Islam, his most volatile anti-white statements were being recorded and reported
by the (white-dominated) press. His message risked alienating whites, especially those who were alive then, who understandably see Malcolm X’s
philosophy as threatening, dangerous, and even revolutionary. His message also risks misleading younger people, blacks and whites alike, who know
Malcolm X only through pop culture—ads for the movie, hats, t-shirts, and a few powerful quotations taken from these more
aggressive days. This pop culture cannot possibly present Malcolm X in a complete and fair view; it aims only to
make him a fad. Most of his early thought is, indeed, somewhat dangerous. His late career, however, saw the development
of a universal philosophy of harmony and acceptance. His trip to Mecca, where he saw Muslims of all races acting
like brothers, radically altered his opinion of white people. Sadly, it is his last and most important message that is
the least-known and most frequently neglected.

Malcolm X’s autobiography, collected by Alex Haley, gives a very good insight into his real intentions, and gives the whole
story of his life, from his days of poverty in Michigan to his trip to Mecca. It is this book
which is the basis for our presentation of Malcolm X.
