SPECIAL!

6 THE DAVIDPHONIAN! - MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993

Sex Life At Davidson! Sex Life at Davidson! Sex Life at Davidson! Sex Life at Davidson! Sex Life at Davidson!
Sex Life at Davidson! Sex Life at Davidson! Sex Life at Davidson!

A Deep, Penetrating, Undercover Investigation!

The Fresh MEN Experience

Members of Davidson's coming freshmen class show real possibilities. As for sex, the really hot one (second from the left)
gave a little giggle and asked, "How else do you think I got in?!"

Psychology Corner...
Are You a Slut, Normal, or Just Horny?

By Jackie Wilson & Mary Waner

A recent study performed by a Pulitzer Prize-winning psychologist, Dr. David Phelps Sprinkle, indicated the alarming number of college-aged women
with sexual dysfunctions. In his experiment, Sprinkle studied and personally interviewed hundreds of women in a relaxed atmosphere in an
attempt to decipher in which of three categories they belonged.

Our study has taken the three-category system Sprinkle used in his innovative study and changed them somewhat. For example, the
type of woman he categorized as a tease, we are deeming normal. Along the same lines, the group he called
normal, we will call sluts. Finally, Sprinkle’s horny category will remain the same.

Below is a small sample of the questions used in Sprinkle’s study. Read each question carefully, and honestly circle the
answer which most corresponds to you. For each answer, give yourself the number of points allotted to that letter: a=1,
b=2, c=3. Only after having answered each question read your personal evaluation according to the number of points you received.
Please send the results to Wilson & Waner, P.O. Box 69. Good luck!

The Official Sex Life Poll

Men Who've Had Intercourse - 100%

Women Claiming to have done it with any of those guys - 0%

People Who've Done it in Chambers - 27%

People Who Want to do it in Chambers - 100%

People Who've Done it in Pres. K's office - 15%

Women Who want Alex Deegan - 100%

Men Who Want Alex Deegan - 17%

Men Who masturbate in the library - 73%

Women who claim they never do - 100%

Men Claiming to have had two girls at once - 23%

Men With an oedipal complex - 87%

Women who've hooked up with a SPE - 0%

Women Who wear polka-dotted panties - 59%

Men who wear polka-dotted panties - 15%

Horny junior girls - 100%

Men who've hooked with one - 4.3322543%

Women who collect pictures of Rob Ukrop - 72%

Women Ukrop's hooked with - 0%

Davidphonian Editors with bad taste - 100%

1. While taking a shower, you usually:
a. make sure to wash behind your ears. You take hygiene seriously.
b. wash your partner's back. You take hygiene seriously.
c. wash vigorously in private places. You take pleasure in hygiene.

2. Your favorite song is:
a. “Like a Virgin”
b. “Sexual Healing”
c. “I Touch Myself”

3. Your greatest accomplishment at Davidson so far is:
a. a Steward scholarship.
b. you’ve avoided herpes.
c. no one has found your dildo yet.

4. The last time you hooked up, you:
a. kissed for thirty minutes.
b. tried every position documented by Masters and Johnson.
c. were alone.

5. Do you consider yourself to be overly in touch with your sexual feelings?
a. No.
b. Yes.
c. Yes, and I wish someone else were, as well.

6. During lunch, you usually:
a. eat a well-balanced meal.
b. sleep. You’re exhausted from the night before.
c. suck on a cucumber.

7. Your classes are over, and you’ve had a long day. You:
a. go to the library so you can finish all of your work before dinner.
b. sleep some more. You're still tired.
c. hang out in Belk, hoping to get some action.

8. It’s Friday night, and you and a cute guy go to a movie. At the concession stand, he asks
you if you want butter on your popcorn. You think he means:
a. “Do you want butter on your popcorn?”
b. “Do you want me to rub hot butter on you like I did last night?”
c. “I want to have sex with you.”

9. During the movie, your date tries to hold your hand:
a. You hold his hand, and smile innocently.
b. You notice deep scars on his wrists from the handcuffs last night.
c. He can’t find your hand. It’s already down his pants.

10. After the movie, your date drives you home. As he pulls into campus, he says:
a. “I had a lovely time. Maybe we can do something tomorrow.”
b. “We don’t even need to get out of the car, I’ve got a condom in the glove compartment.”
c. “No, you can’t come back to my room, you desperate loser.”

10-18 pts.
Congratulations, you’re normal according to our standards! Dr. Sprinkle may think you’re a tease, but look on the bright side,
your medical bills are probably cheaper than the other groups. Anyway, you have passed our test with flying colors, and
you should be proud of yourself, tight-ass.

19-24 pts.
Well, you’re a little too loose for us. You’re the type of person men dream about (for one night), and
women despise. You probably don’t have any friends. Pick your pants up, and get you some self-esteem.

25-30 pts.
You must be a junior who was abroad last semester. You're horny, there's no other way to put it.
