THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993

Crull
Continued from page 11

against its figurative counterpart. In a sense, he challenges the categories of public and private, self and soul. Crull is
as interested in the technical aspect of his paintings as he is in the metaphorical and subjective. He uses a
variety of palettes in the works seen in Chambers. Several works are strictly black and white, others pastel, and one
entitled Winds of Chance (1986) uses violent reds and deep green. St. Sebastian (1989) has an impasto so thick it
seems to flow off the canvas like lava.

In spite of the sense of immediacy he conveys in the application of the paint, the viewer becomes aware of
the subtle organization of the piece. Each canvas has a wholeness which does not limit the viewer to its particularities.
This effect is limited in multi-panel pieces as the division between panels is nearly insurmountable for the eye. The proximity
of the panels allows them to be considered as a unit, but he uses the divisions as a symbol of
the dichotomy so prevalent in existential metaphors. Crull manages successfully the complex and even chaotic portrayal of a soul-searching confrontation
within the realm of cohesive composition.

Bumstead
Continued from page 11

long enough to give us another album and finally go back on tour—without his hat. I could go on for
hours, but one story overshadows them all for 1992. The 3,491st show of the Grand Ole Opry was like any
other for the past 54 years, and it was sadly lacking. In November of 1992, the King of Country Music,
Roy Acuff, died, leaving the Opry to go on without him—something it had done for only the first 13 years
in its 67-year history. To say he left shoes that can never be filled does not begin to memorialize the
legend that was Roy Acuff; to say he will live forever in the heart of Nashville is an understatement. But
he left us his Opry; and as long as it lives, so will he.

Finally, the best songs on the radio that peaked in the 1992 calendar year? It’s a tough call off the
top of my head, but I'll try:
- "What Kind of Fool Do You Think I Am", Lee Roy Parnell
- "The River", Garth Brooks
- "The Greatest Man I Never Knew", Reba McEntire
- "I Saw the Light", Wynonna Judd
- "Jukebox With a Country Song", Doug Stone

There were other greats by Garth, Randy Travis, Wynonna, and Collin Raye, but this was simply a quick shot at
an all-star list. So that’s a very, very quick look at 1992 on music row. And 1993 looks like it’s
off to the best start it could have. Why? Garth is singing in the Super Bowl (for the Boys), and
his "Somewhere Other Than the Night"—one of his very finest songs—was the first #1 of 1993 ... on all three
charts.

by B.J. Rudell

A small, friendly room
Who are you
You who intrigues me so
A small girl contentedly sits alone
So oftenHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

That it makes me wonder while outside there rages a violent storm. Wonder who you are. Mutual friends made us
acquaintances. Mutual feelings are making us friends. The storm beyond, it breaks the bond and enters the house as the
girl looks on. What mood do you wish to present? Is it meant to embrace my lonely heart or is
it a platonic nature presented? The futile walls frown and come crashing down as the frightened girl fights to make
a sound. She crouches where a corner used to be. Three feet in front of her face she can’t see.
The darkening schemes, the opening seams each dash her hopes and shatter her dreams. A voice of unreason shouts in
her head. Another makes threats that could scare the dead. The girl shuts her ears, but can’t fight the tears
as inhuman screams are all that she hears. A gentle and recognizable hand, its presence the girl could never have
planned, lifts her out of the shadows of her doubts while the storm, it ebbs, thus losing its clout. The
small girl sits and waits in her chair. Of the past events she is well aware. Though the rain has
eased, though the voices have ceased, their aim to destroy has not been appeased. Yet the girl is proud of
the life she owns. She sighs contentedly: She is not alone.

“Who Are You?”

Mutual desires may make us acquainted with something far greater than a view. To arrest my emotions before they start,
the game we may be preparing to play. It reeks of other such past events. I am talking of similar
games I have played where I incorrectly read my opponents’ intents. But this is a new and better season, filled
with the promise our fantasies engender. And you are my intriguing teammate, seasoned with the spice that continues to make
me wonder. Who are you? You who baffles me so, so often that it makes me admire whoever you truly
are.

--Write for Arts--

WHY DON'T YOU SELL SOMETHING IN THIS SPACE?
-The Davidsonian Classifieds
Call -2148

**Awesome Spring Breaks!**
Bahamas Cruise Includes 10 Meals $279, Panama City With Kitchen $119, Key West $249, Daytona (Kitchens) $149, Cancun $459, Jamaica
$479!
1-800-678-6386

$1,000 AN HOUR!
Each member of your frat, sorority, team, club, etc. pitches in just one hour and your group can raise $1,000
in just a few days! Plus a chance to earn $1,000 for yourself! No cost. No obligation.
1-800-932-0528, ext. 65

Weekend RAFTERS RESTAURANT
Serving the best in traditional Southern Foods
Tues.-Fri. Lunch: 11-2; Dinner: 5-9
Saturday Dinner: 5-9
Wednesday-College Night
Special on Selected Appetizers (1/2-Price)
Discount on Beer
Occasional ENTERTAINMENT
Grilled swordfish and broiled salmon
Entrees include fresh vegetables
To Go Orders — Daily Lunch Specials
761 N. Main St. Mooresville, NC
704/663-7322

THE Downtown Boutique
Frankly My Dear...
106 S. Main Street Davidson, NC 28036

In Time For Midwinters Weekend Shopping - Formal or Casual
New York & L.A. Manufacturers Representatives
Designer Labels for Less
Specializing in After Five & Prom
EARRINGS DESIGNED by Owner Donna Stewart $28.00
Call to order today

---
