2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Native American Churchill Says "Forget the Fairytale"

Lecturer Offers "Indigenist View of America Since 1492"

By Kelly M. Dixson

The traditional view of the Spanish Conquest resembles a fairy tale: Columbus sailed the ocean blue and “discovered” a wonderful new world. However, on Tuesday, April 6 in the 900 Room, the Center for Special Studies, Committee on Public Lectures, Dean Rusk Program, Department of Anthropology and Sociology, and Phi Beta Kappa, Gamma chapter, sponsored a presentation by Dr. Ward Churchill, a Native American author and critic who presented a very different view of the Conquest.

Dr. Churchill is presently at the Center for Studies of Ethnicity and Race in America at the University of Colorado, Boulder. Dr. Grant Jones introduced him as an academic and activist, as well as a self-described “international trouble maker.”

Dr. Churchill’s speech, entitled “When the Predator Came: An Indigenist View of Native North America Since 1492,” focused on the effects of the Columbian arrival. He characterized Christopher Columbus and his men as predators, but emphasized that the term predator is not interchangeable with any specific group such as Caucasian or European. Dr. Churchill reminded the audience that Columbus and his men were not the first Europeans to arrive in the Americas, but they were the first to settle and conquer the area in such a way as to destroy the land, the population, and the natural order of the continent. He described the Conquest claiming, “It was not a process of settlement, it was a process of genocide.”

He declared that there was a ninety-eight percent Indian population reduction as a result of the Columbian arrival, and that this reduction is unparalleled in history in terms of its magnitude. Dr. Churchill discussed the traditional view that three-fourths of the Indian deaths occurred as a result of diseases such as smallpox, typhoid, and influenza. Many scholars have seen disease as an unintentional process, therefore taking away from the culpability of the European settlers. Dr. Churchill, however, explained that the settlers observed that the diseases that they brought killed the Indians, yet they continued to settle the area and even accelerated the process. Therefore, he claimed, the settlers were not innocent. He recounted several cases in which commanders of conquering armies intentionally distributed contaminated items to the Indians with the intention of spreading disease, stating, “These were exercises in biological warfare for the express purpose of exterminating the opposition.”

In order to explain the deaths of the twenty-five percent of the population that were not related to disease, Dr. Churchill offered information about the encomienda system in which Indians and their land and the destruction of their environment. Dr. Churchill ended his talk by affirming that the predator attitude is a state of mind and that people are not born into the predator mindset, but are conditioned to be predators. He encouraged the audience to educate themselves and to condition their own consciousness. Finally, he expressed his desire for people to feel a sense of responsibility.Responsibility to eliminate the misconception about the Columbian Conquest. Photo by C.A. Rogers

Native American Ward Churchill had lunch with students on Wednesday, April 7 in the DuPont Room. Churchill spoke on Tuesday in the 900 Room and at the induction of the new Phi Beta Kappa members.

The Ups and Downs of the DC Lottery

Lottery continued from page 1

Responded, “Folks will say it is patently unfair, but we would have to redo the whole women’s lottery.” Further, not even included in this mini-lottery are the more than 40 men on the waiting list. Terry, however, says not to worry, that he expects campus housing to open up for the 20 women who will remain on the waiting list, as well as for the 40 men. He made the final decision to make 2nd Watts a women’s hall for a few reasons. One, if he had put those women down the hill it would have furthered the disproportional gender allocation already present with the conversion of 1st Irwin. The hall ratio down the hill now stands at four halls for women to two for men. Also, more men have requested permission to live off-campus than women, and if worse comes to worst Terry likes to have flexibility with the men: “If it is absolutely necessary, I’d rather force men off campus than women for security reasons.”

Freshman Philip Parks says, “It sucks that we don’t know where we’re gonna live and our cluster is broken up. Richard Terry said we might even have to split up roommates.” Freshman Isaac Squires asked, “Why is it so hard to get off campus if there are so many people on the waiting list?” Terry responded by saying that they have to be very careful, because they do not know which rising juniors will not be on campus next year, which students will not return, or what the freshman matriculation will be. “It’s not just a matter of adding; it’s like shooting at shadows,” says Terry. They have restricted off-campus housing to the 120 they had last year, which may or may not increase, depending upon attrition. They have to, however, guarantee at least 96% occupancy, or Terry says there would be insufficient funds for the operating budget of Residence Life.

As to future changes in residence plans, Terry is considering, in addition to a new dorm estimated to begin construction in 1994 or 1995, a variety of possible options. He is looking at the result of the change in this year’s clustering policy, as well as other possible configurations of the dorms, even a possibility of a coed Belk dorm; Terry remembers that when he attended Davidson in the 1970s that Belk was coed for one year. Students are free to submit any new lottery plans they may have.

We've plenty of choices in campus wear, and great selections for Him or for Her for that upcoming interview. Apparel for Men and Women Downtown Mooresville for 81 years 161 North Main, Mooresville, NC 28115

COME TO AN EVENT FOR DAVIDSON'S ELIZABETH BENEDICT who will autograph her new novel "Safe Conduct" Friday, May 7 4-6 p.m. 126 S. Main St. 892-6841