SPORTS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993 13

Cross Country teams ready themselves for fall seasons
By Jean DeMoss & Matthew Bradley

Women's Team
Three teams showed up for the first women’s cross-country meet of the year at Moses H. Cone State Park near
Boone. The Lady Wildcats finished third behind Appalachian State and UNC-Charlotte. A hard rain fell hours before the race which
left the course muddy. When the gun went off at four, however, the running conditions were perfect. Davidson’s top seven
finished less than a minute apart. Strong performances were turned in by Carolyn Meadows, Katie McKelvie, Stephanie Moses, and Erin
Roach. The strategy of pack running will definitely psyche out a lot of teams in future meets. Besides battling the
other teams, the runners had to share the course with horses. Runners even had to avoid horse chips. The women’s
cross-country team was picked to finish a disappointing seventh out of eight teams in the Southern Conference. After the opening
meet, however, the team looks only to improve. When the Southern Conference meet rolls around, the women’s cross-country team will
surprise a lot of people.

Men's Team
Davidson’s men’s cross-country team has a lot of new faces this year, with junior Eric McMichael being the only non-freshman.
The team opened up its season this past Saturday with a three-team meet at Boone’s Moses Cone Memorial Park. The
early, rainy weather cleared and left cool conditions. After the obligatory sprint start, the runners circled Bass Lake for the
race’s first mile. They then followed a horse trail into the trees for the race’s second, third, and fourth miles.
The horses had left a muddy path and other, less aesthetic surprises. Nevertheless, the three-mile section was equally divided between
a long gradual uphill, a flat portion with lots of turns, and a downhill with more switchbacks. The runners then
emerged back into the daylight for one more lap around the lake and the finish. When all was said and
done, Mike Coyle was Davidson’s top finisher. His time of 28:08 made him the tenth fastest Wildcat ever to run
the course. Eric McMichael, Matthew Bradley, and Chris Machon followed within twenty seconds, and Dave Foss rounded out the scoring
five in 29:04. The host team from Appalachian State won the meet with 15 points, followed by UNC-Charlotte with 46,
and the Wildcats ended up with 82. Davidson will travel to Winston-Salem on September 18 for an invitational meet.

Football looking to improve under new leaders.
By Robert Lloyd-Still

The Davidson football team enters this year’s fall campaign with a new head coach, Tim Landis. Coach Landis replaces Dave
Fagg who presided over the team the previous three seasons. Fagg became Executive Director of the Wildcat Club and Assistant
Athletic Director. Landis had been an assistant to Fagg for the past two seasons. At 29, Landis is one of
the youngest head coaches in America. He feels ecstatic about his new position. “This is a dream come true,” Landis
said. “It has happened sooner in my career than I imagined. I attended a college similar to Davidson and it’s
always been one of my goals to be a head coach at a school with a small enrollment and a
low student-professor ratio.” In 1986, Landis graduated from Randolph-Macon College. Before coming to Davidson in 1991, Landis served as athletic
director, head football coach, and head baseball coach at Morrisville High School in Pennsylvania. Besides coaching football in the fall,
Landis will remain as the associate head coach of Davidson’s baseball team. Landis is excited about the football team’s direction.
“I want to continue to develop a formidable small college program. We’re not far from it. One of the nice
things about taking this position is that Coach Fagg built a good foundation. It will be more a process of
taking the ball and running with it than building from scratch.” Landis also mentioned that, “we want a program that
will be one of the best in the southeast region. The combination of strong academics and a good football program
is a great draw for players.”

Football Schedule
Date Opponent
Sep 11 U. of the South
Sep 18 RHODES
Sep 25 Emory & Henry
Oct 2 Guilford
Oct 9 Washington & Lee
Oct 16 METHODIST
Oct 23 RANDOLPH-MACON
Oct 30 HAMPDEN-SYDNEY
Nov 6 Centre
Nov 13 BRIDGEWATER
Home Games in Capitals

Men's soccer remains optimistic despite losses
By Will Cobb

The Davidson College soccer team suffered a 4-0 loss to the eleventh-ranked James Madison in its season opener last Saturday
in the first round of the Wake Forest Invitational. The Cats play in the second round against Syracuse University. After
coming off a season decorated with two tournament victories, a Southern Conference title, andan appearance in the Final Four, the
team anticipates a season that will help establish a consistently successful program. While losing nine players to graduation, Davidson hopes
to enjoy success while rebuilding. This year’s squad will be young, since half of the team is either sophomores or
freshmen. Due to the opening of starting positions and fewer experienced players, there will be plenty of playing opportunities for
more players. This will be very different from last year’s senior-loaded team that used a twelve to thirteen-man rotation. With
the abundance of unable to establish a set starting line-up, Slagle plans to use this past weekend’s tournament as a
feeling ground by mixing line-ups with different rotations to help establish the starting eleven. Though not all positions are filled,
many are set. Returning from last year’s lineup are the starting outside backs, senior Rob Malinzak and junior Tommy Suter.
Also returning is senior striker Ben Hayes, the leading returning scorer from the Final Four squad. The only other returning
starter is the acrobatic junior goalie Alex Deegan, who is currently recovering from a knee injury he suffered last summer.
Coach Slagle is very optimistic about Deegan’s rehabilitation. If all goes well, hopefully we will see Deegan suited up for
the home opener versus UNCC on September 16 at 7:00 PM. Until then, the starting goaltender job has been given
to no one more deserving.

- See Soccer on page 15 -

The Davidson football players are also very excited about Landis. Senior Rob King stated that, “everyone on the team has
a positive attitude this year. The players are so excited this year and the coaches relate so well to the
players.”

1993 OUTLOOK

With a new head coach and many returning players, Davidson hopes to improve on their 5-5 record of a year
ago. This year, the Wildcats will switch from Division III in football to Division I-AA. However, most of Davidson’s opponents
this year will be of Division III stature, because of geographical reasons. While Davidson hopes to improve on last year’s
five hundred season, they will face some very stiff competition early. Davidson’s first three opponents (The University of the South,
Rhodes, Emory and Henry) were a combined 24-6-1 last year. The Cats open the season at the University of the
South on September 11, and return home the next week for Rhodes. On the third week of the season, they
travel to Emory and Henry, who were 10-0 last year and made the Division III semi-finals.

The senior class of Davidson is the first one with no scholarship players. Luckily for Davidson, however, is that there
are 22 returning starters in this year’s lineup. Amongst those starters are the team’s two senior captains: Richard Howell and
Alden Smith. Howell, the quarterback, enters his final season at Davidson after leading the team last year in passing (1198
yards 10 touchdowns) and rushing (383 yards 4 touchdowns). Smith, who plays cornerback, contributed 55 tackles last year and led
the defense with seven interceptions. Smith also returned 28 kickoffs for 573 yards and 24 punts for 155 yards. It
seems, however, that football is not enough for Smith who also serves as the President of Davidson’s Student Government Association.

On the offensive side of the ball, Davidson will be especially strong up front. Although they lost standout Nathan Fenwick
at center, senior Rob King will move over and take his spot. Another senior, Jack Barry, will man a spot
on the line and he has started all 28 games since his freshman year. Seniors Chris Edmonston and Charles “Chopper”
Hill will also start. The possibility of an all-senior starting offensive line will be put on hold for a couple
of weeks due to a knee injury that will keep Barrett Plasman out of action. Freshman John Cowan has impressed
the coaching staff this summer and he will start in place of Plasman. Davidson also looks strong at the skilled
positions this coming season. While Davidson will miss their big play receiver Dan Lamar,

- See Football on page 15 -
