2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

Patterson Court judicial board handles first cases of year

By Martha Knight

The newly created Patterson Court Judicial Board held its first hearing on Wednesday, October 27, in the Union. Members discussed
specific violations from Homecoming weekend activities and decided on certain procedures and sanctions that will be instituted in the future.

In the past, citations given at social events resulted in actions taken by the administration. Violations of Patterson Court policies
were handled by either the Alcohol Enforcement Committee or the college judicial board. PCC President Julie Petty felt that there
was a strong need for Patterson Court “to take responsibility for its own actions.” She and Resident Advisor Kurt Holmes
worked together during the spring semester in reviewing old by-laws and in developing this new system as one of several
changes on Patterson Court.

The board consists of one representative from each of the seven fraternities, three women’s eating houses, and the Black Student
Coalition. Two members of the faculty and staff are also a part of the council, which is currently in the
process of appointing two additional people to serve in this capacity. Holmes and Petty act as non-voting members.

Guidelines for the proceedings state that at least five of these students and two faculty representatives must be present at
every hearing. Any member whose house has been accused of a violation must sit out during that particular deliberation. A
house cited for a violation receives a written notice two days in advance of the hearing, at which time they
can prepare their defense.

Changes proposed for course evaluations

By Wendy Lee

Exams, research papers, and course evaluations are three “givens” at the semester’s end of any Davidson College class. Sophomore Jamie
McConnel is proposing that the way Davidson conducts course evaluations be changed. He presented his proposal to the Student Government
Association at their meeting on Tuesday, November 2. He feels that the present system with only free answer questions does
not allow a “way to comprehensively compile evaluations.”

McConnel would like to see a numerical format added to the current free answer question format and a book published
with summary information from the evaluations. An added numerical rating format would give one a “better sense of what a
whole class thinks about a course,” McConnel said. Davidson could use the ratings to chart the progress of a professor
from year to year.

McConnel will draw up an alternative course evaluation form and submit it to Dean Robert Williams, Vice President for Academic
Affairs, prior to November 22. The alternative form will be reviewed by Williams, several students, and several faculty members.

McConnel sees value in both the free answer and numerical formats. The free answer section allows students to discuss in
depth their feelings about a course or to list their grievances. A numerical format would ask students to rate, on
a scale, aspects of the class such as the readings, quality of teaching, and workload.

The second change McConnel proposes is publishing a book based on course evaluations. “By publishing a book with the opinions
of all students on all of their classes in the past year, the school can give a student a much
more accurate view of the classes and the professors at Davidson.” The book would include a breakdown of students in
a course by class year; statistics on ratings of readings, teaching, and workload; and course requirements such as number of
papers, tests, and major reading requirements.

The book could be sent to incoming freshmen when they are registering for courses during the summer before coming to
Davidson. SGA Senior Class Representative Chris Edmonston agrees. “It [the book] would give freshmen an idea of what they’re getting
into” when they register for a class.

Harvard University uses an evaluation system similar to the one McConnel is proposing. At Harvard, students yearly publish over 5,000
copies of a book with information compiled from evaluations. Brown University utilizes a rating system and has published the results
for 19 years.

SGA President Alden Smith noted that this is a “good idea and it demonstrates initiative on the part of a
student to change course evaluations.” Edmonston said that “both professors and students would benefit from this proposed change.” He also
noted that students would have access to the “opinions of a large number of people regarding a class” rather than
just relying on friends for information about a course.

Dean Williams noted that the present system is “very valuable in all personnel decisions.” Williams said that currently, evaluations are
shared with the department chair and individual faculty members. When professors are up for tenure or contract renewal, course evaluations
are instrumental in decision making.

During a recent meeting with McConnel, Dean Williams noted that “the changes were worth exploring,” but he was concerned with
the administration of the evaluations and publishing of the book. McConnel plans to apply to the SGA for a charter
for an 11-member student group that would compile information from evaluations and put it into book form.

Join the news staff. Call Mandy -6252.which the representative may then plead “guilty, not guilty, or no contest.” Because it
was the first trial of the new judicial system, last week’s meeting was long and at times confusing. Holmes stated
that “it was rough just because it was so new, but we did a lot of debating and worked through
a lot of issues.” The Judicial Board approved a number of sanctions for dealing with specific violations. It recognized problems
involving alcohol service procedures, unregistered social events, alternative food and beverages, and the distribution of party fliers referring to alcohol.
Houses which fail to comply with Patterson Court policies must now either pay a fine ranging from $20 to $100,
remain on social probation for a week, participate in court education programs, or abide by a combination of these terms.
Holmes said that board members expressed greatest concern about sober monitors and agreed that a house sponsoring an event without
monitors should receive the most severe sanctions. PCC rules currently require that any house hosting a party have one person
on duty for the entire event and others who take shifts throughout the night so that two sober monitors are
present at all times. In dealing with the Homecoming citations, the board issued warning letters, fines ranging from $50 to
$150, and a week’s social probation to houses on the court. Some of the charges were dismissed. Those involved in
the first meeting generally agreed that it surpassed their expectations. Political science professor Shelley Rigger stated, “I was pleased at
how conscientious the students were in a group of peers.” Holmes considers it a tribute to the cooperation of the
houses that no violations occurred in the first six weeks of the semester.

Photo by Laura Dennis

A thief apparently hid in the restroom facility at the Lake Campus October 27. Policemen investigated from the parking lot.

Criminal robs woman, escapes to Lake Campus
By Mandy Curtis

Iredell County police surrounded the lake campus two weeks ago on Wednesday, October 27 in search of an escaped criminal
who robbed and assaulted a woman in her Lake Norman home earlier that day. Davidson students preparing for their kayaking
course were told to leave the area when the police arrived to search the bathrooms for the man afoot in
the vicinity. Police received word that the man was there at some point in the afternoon, although never confirmed. Three
police cars parked in the lot above the bathrooms; from there they scanned the scene. Cautiously, the officers walked down
to the bathrooms, according to students who remained to watch in the distance. After about ten minutes in the bathrooms,
the cops retraced the area and dispersed without a sign of the criminal. One Davidson student en route to the
lake campus, as well as other vehicle motorists traveling on that road, was stopped by police upon entrance. Given a
detailed description of the man in question and a warning about being in the area, the student proceeded to the
campus anyway. Unfazed by the situation, the student waited around near the dock to see what was going on while
others in the kayaking class observed from the safety of a van near the boathouse. Says student, “Things like that
don’t bother me; he did sound pretty sketchy though. But when the police left without a word we all figured
everything was okay.” Iredell County police would not comment on the situation, however. Whether or not the escaped criminal was
caught or is still out at the lake campus is unknown.

Lock your door!

The Davidsonian News Editor
Mandy Curtis
McCrory, Alice Felmlee, Ka

Staff Writers
Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Mary Catherine Hash, Jay Jennings, Kristy Ford, Ashlyn Dannelly, Martha Knight, Meg
Wolff, Susan Warren, Wendy Lee, Carrie Blackburn, Mary Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Jenny Schroeter, Lexy Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock

Correction
In the October 25 issue of The Davidsonian, an article about the women's self-selection system said waiting lists for membership
had "been abolished." According to PCC President Julie Petty, there will be waiting lists but only after every house has
at least 60 freshmen members. However, this number assumes there will be only three houses.

EDUCATION FOR THE REAL WORLD
Graduate degree programs (MA, Ph.D) in International Affairs with an emphasis on contemporary policy-relevant issues.

Area and Functional Fields:
- Interamerican Studies (including U.S.-Latin American Relations)
- European Studies
- Post-Soviet Studies
- Comparative Development
- International Business
- International Economics
- International Health Policy
- International Relations Theory
- International Security and Conflict
- Foreign Policy Analysis

Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid.

North-South Center
UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI

Students who are interested in Interamerican issues are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Graduate Assistantships.

GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
Admissions, Room #359
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010
(305) 284-4173
