THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

Dating Games

The events were originally designed exclusively for fraternities

By Sally Stone & Rachel Dunifon

Today the weekends known as Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics bring to mind fraternity-oriented date functions that dominate the entire weekend. Not so long ago, however, these events were something completely different.

Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics were conceived in the late 1940s, after the trustees allowed dancing on campus. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, these events were “frantic” weekends in which hundreds of females from colleges throughout the Southeast vacationed in Belk dorm, as their hosts doubled or tripled with their friends to make space for them. Dances were held in Johnston Gym, and involved the whole student body, mingling in their formal attire and dancing to the sounds of big band music. Although each fraternity, as well as the independent students, occupied sections of the gym, the focus was on the dance floor, where the whole college interacted.

The more rebellious Davidson students of the 1960s did not find big band music to their liking, and their fraternity parties moved off-campus for the big weekends. Following the admission of alcohol to on-campus parties, date functions returned to campus in 1969. The year 1972 brought women to Davidson and the conception of the women’s eating houses. By design, women’s date functions were scheduled separately rather than all in one weekend like fraternity functions.

Today, Davidson’s main date functions continue to be fraternity-oriented while women’s occasions are held individually throughout the year. With only 60% of Davidson men joining houses, a large number are excluded from these fraternity-led events. According to Patterson Court president Julie Petty, male and female students on the whole express some dissatisfaction with big weekend date functions. Senior Merrill Earnest shares this view. Although a member of a fraternity, he believes that date functions such as Homecoming do not promote community on the Davidson campus. They can be uncomfortable for males not in fraternities, as well as for females who do not have dates. Additionally, as a senior, he feels that the novelty of date functions has worn off for him.

Fellow seniors Ed Denning and Greg Livers believe that the quality of a date function varies, depending upon one's date. On the whole, though, Denning enjoys the variety that date functions add to the monotonous life on Patterson Court. On the female side, sophomore Amanda Davis also enjoys big date weekends. However, she notes that this is due to the fact that her boyfriend is in a fraternity. She acknowledges that, while they are often fun, date functions are “not all that inclusive,” and that Davidson lacks opportunities for independents and other students on the big weekends.

Independent senior Michael Oehler says that the only reason that he would have joined a fraternity would be to participate in such events. However, efforts are being made to make such weekends more fun for the entire campus. SGA senator Brad Hilsmier organized the masquerade ball on Saturday, which was advertised as a campus-wide event, rather than just for independent students. Hilsmier is trying to start a new trend of increased social opportunities for all Davidson students on the big weekends. Similar campus-wide events will be held on future weekends, such as Midwinters and Spring Frolics.

Graduate school advice offered by Careers

By Scott Windham

Students who have taken one of the graduate school tests on campus this semester, the MCAT, LSAT, or GRE, are familiar with the Office of Career Services. Carol Jordan and her co-workers at Career Services are the ones who administer those dreaded exams to hapless souls.

Jordan wants students to know that Career Services offers much more in the field of graduate study than just graduate school placement exams. The Careers library on the first floor of the Julia Johnston house is stocked with information that will help students with each step of the graduate school process. Library assistant Ann Melton recommends the Barron’s and Princeton Review series of study guides to help students prepare for the aforementioned exams as well as other references to aid in selecting and applying to graduate schools. In addition to the six-volume Peterson’s Guides to Graduate Study, the library contains separate guides to specialized fields of study from Business to Psychology, as well as books on writing top-notch applications.Personal statements and application essays. The library also owns Career Services’ recently-revised Guide to Graduate and Professional Study, a compilation designed to help students plan their path to graduate school. Computer printouts listing Davidson alumni in graduate school are also available, as is the Gourman Report ranking schools by discipline. Students interested in financial aid for graduate study might consult the library information concerning scholarships, grants, and loans. The library also houses copies of the GAPSFAS form, an application necessary at many universities to receive financial aid. Staff members note that students may also get information from other sources on campus. The E.H. Little Library has a complete microfiche collection of graduate and undergraduate catalogs. In addition, Little possesses its own set of Peterson’s guidebooks and a set of guides to graduate scholarships. The staff also emphasizes that Davidson faculty are one of the most valuable resources available to students considering graduate school. Professors not only “know the game” of applying, but can recommend the best programs and universities. Professor of English and Humanities Gail Gibson is especially interested in helping students with the graduate school process and is an excellent resource for students considering programs in the Arts and Humanities. Career Services reports that 85 percent of Davidson graduates attend graduate school within the first five years after Davidson. The Class of 1993 now boasts students at some of the top programs in the nation, including Harvard and UVa Law Schools, Johns Hopkins, Baylor, and Bowman Gray Medical Schools, and Arts and Sciences programs at Duke, Penn, and Emory. A number of graduate schools are sending representatives to Davidson this year, and students may sign up at the Office of Career Services for interviews or information sessions concerning the schools represented. The staff at Career Services encourages any student interested in graduate school to stop by the Julia Johnston House on Main St or to call 2132.

"That's disgusting, let's see it again"

By Wendy Lee

“That’s disgusting; let’s see it again” is the mentality that many Japanese citizens hold of the United States, according to Chris Field, an American correspondent for a Japanese TV station. Field, a Dean Rusk speaker, gave a presentation on Japanese views of Americans Thursday, October 21 in the 900 Room of the Union. Excerpts from Field’s work as a reporter were replete with scenes of shootings, fires, riots, and hostage situations confirming the fact that the Japanese are as fascinated by tabloid TV as much as Americans. Field provided reasons why the Japanese media heavily covers the U.S. because the U.S. is the world’s political and financial center and the image of Hollywood is reinforced. Another reason Field noted was a superiority/inferiority complex amongst Japanese. Their image is reinforced by viewing the decayed state of the U.S.; however, they are also afraid that Americans will “bash” them. Field said that a mini-revolution inside Japan with a recession and government changes is altering economic and cultural attitudes. “We know everything there is to know about America. Tell us something new.”

ARE YOU FEELING ALONE?

If you are struggling with food and body image, you are not alone. For six weeks, starting Monday, October 25th, from 8:00 p.m., a group will meet in the Counseling Center to discuss these issues. The group will be co-directed by an experienced Davidson student. For information contact: Georgia Ringle, extension 2902 Christine Davidson, extension 2451

Honor Council Elections

The honor council elections came to an end just last week. The process for those interested in running for a position consisted of signing up and attending a candidate’s meeting. In contrast to other elections on campus, no campaigning or signs are permitted during the election process. The newly elected seniors include John Dalton, Meg J. Kendall, Erin Lang, and Dave Stewart. The juniors are Sean Callahan, Phoebe Dean, and Rachel Worlds. Samantha Hodges, Chris Knox, and Justin Verm will represent the sophomores. Freshmen are ineligible to serve on the Council—a time-honored Davidson tradition.

—Jenny Schroeter