_ ARTS! _ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

The Grateful Dead to Tour With Some Band Called Residew

By Piddie Newbury

In a press conference this past Wednesday, Residew announced that they will be accompanying the Grateful Dead on their summer tour. “We’re very psyched to be helping them out,” bassist Chip Petree said. At a recent Residew performance at the Dark Horse Tavern in Atlanta, Bob Weir joined the ‘Dew onstage for a rendition of “Mr. Charlie” and “Stuck In the Middle With You.” “After the show, Bob came backstage and said he was really impressed,” said Petree. “We hit it off. Long after the crowd left, we [Residew and Weir] jammed.” Further conversation led to a meeting with the other Dead band members, and they unanimously voted to bring Residew along for the summer tour. “It’s going to be huge,” said guitarist Julian Cochran, class of ’92. “We'll be playing venues like RFK stadium, and Deer Creek. I can’t believe we made the transition from clubs to mass audiences so quickly.” “We’ve had to cancel all our club dates for summer,” singer Fud McKinney added. “From now on, no more frat parties. We’re big time now.” Residew was chosen among five other bands.

Pissin' in the Wind...

I. D. Iot

The Ballad of B&E

Well, pardners, I know that this article will seem anticlimactic after last week’s gargantuan, self-important orgy of an editorial on the country music phenomenon. But I just couldn’t restrain myself after finding out about the demise of the B & E. Yes, folks, the one last bastion of Americana in the Davidson area (and the only place around I can watch my favorite Billy Ray Cyrus videos) is history. A source I won’t identify called around and found out that McDonald’s owns that land and sold it to a franchise that will put a Texaco in the B & E’s place. I know cowboys aren’t supposed to cry, but I came pretty darn close when I found out. Well, Eric Clapton dealt with the tragedy of his son’s death by writing a Grammy-winning song (I can’t remember what it’s called since it’s not country), and I figured I could do the same for the B & E. Even though songwriting’s fairly unknown territory for me, I came up with something that would make Hank Jr. or David Allen Coe proud. I know what y’all are thinking: “Matt, don’t this create a conflict of interest between your music reviewin’ side and your Nashville tourin’ side?” All I have to say is, read ‘em and weep...

I was truckin’ late one night on 77
Bein’ tired on the road just ain’t no heaven
And Columbia was over two hours away.
Passin’ by Mooresville at quarter ‘till three
my mouth started waterin’ like a dog in heat
‘Cause the Bacon & Eggs was minutes away.
I called up some folks on my old CB
And asked ‘em all, “Who's comin’ with me?
I’m gettin’ a Belt-Buster at the B & E!”
Pot Belly, Bubba, and Papabear replied
And said one after the other, “We'd be much obliged
We’ll be in Cornelius with you by three.”
But on our way into the parking lot
All our 72 wheels screeched to a stop
As we saw the B & E wasn’t open no more!
“Where the hell’s that restaurant of mine?
That sweet grease oasis of North Caroline
Has a Texaco sign where ‘B & E’ stood before”
None of us four knew what to do
“What about that waitress with the shoulder tattoo?
And what about the ‘Rowe’ video screen?”
We stopped a passerby, “Hey, what’s happened
To our smothered grits and our little Ms. Pacman,
And who in the hell could be so low-down and mean?”
I gotta tell ya, I couldn’t take no more
When he said it was done by the McDonald’s next door,
Who sold the land to someone to build a Texaco.
Bubba said, “You're tellin’ me some stupid clown
Tore down the best place in this entire town
To build just another crappy Texaco?”
Well, the boys and me wouldn’t sit idly by
And just watch our Southern heritage die—
We all knew some justice had to be dealt!
It wasn’t enough just to raise a ruckus
So we all four climbed back into our trucks
And headed for McDonald’s at full tilt...
Well, I’m the only one left to tell this story
(And I’m leavin’ out the parts that are really gory)
Let’s just say I was the only one to see the dawn.
Though levellin’ McD’s and losin’ our lives
won’t bring back Ms. Pacman, tattoos, or greasy knives,
The legend of the B & E will live on.Finalist bands to share the stage with the Dead. Among the alternates were Widespread Panic and Allgood. A recent practice session at Richardson Field set the pace for the shows to come. Before a crowd of 2,000 students, faculty, and alumni, Residew displayed some of the work they plan to showcase this summer. Residew took the stage at 4:00 and played an upbeat set which included “Me and My Uncle” and “Eyes Of The World.” A surprise appearance from both Bob Dylan and Jerry Garcia highlighted the ‘Dew’s rendition of the Dylan song “Tangled Up In Blue.” Residew also played some of their new material for the eager crowd. “We’re not about Grateful Dead covers. We just play them because the fans are always requesting them,” Petree said adamantly. “This summer, we’ll be playing all original songs.”

The Grateful Dead has been practicing with Residew at an undisclosed location in Mt. Mourne. “We’ve got some surprises in store,” said Cochran. “One of us (I can’t reveal which) will be taking the stage with the Dead, not just opening for them.” Sources say that the mystery performer might be Joe Binns, drummer for Residew and Davidson Alumnus '91. He may be joining Mickey Hart for the infamous song, “Drums.” “I cannot wait. I couldn’t be more floored,” Petree said after the press conference. “We'll be playing Davidson before we tour, so look for us,” he added. At press time, IPC has scheduled a Grateful Dead/Residew performance in the 900 Room during exams. It will be free with Davidson College I.D.

The Dead and The Dew

In what is probably the most unreasonable joke in this issue of The Davidphonian, the Grateful Dead made a surprise tour stop to jam with the local hippie band, The Residew. There are some other things written about this in the article above. Oh, by the way, that's Julian's head pasted over Bob Weir's above. Photo doctor by Chuck E. Cheese.

By Crystal Gazer

Taurus (April 20-May 20)
Yeah! Your birthday month starts off with a bang! Saturn, briefly penetrating Pisces on the 21st, leaves as quickly as he comes. This starry encounter may leave its mark for several months, so you may want to visit Davidson’s clinic. Around the 5th, a relationship flares its nostrils at you, bovine sign, and you flare yours right back. But beware, this may become violent around the 16th. No fear, four-nippled livestock... with your stubborn attitude people will hate you more than you hate yourself. Famous birthdays this month: Pee Wee Herman, Alyssa Milano, Erik Estrada, Richard Simmons, John Ritter, Cagney and Lacey, and Sally Struthers.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)
Hey twin, get off your ass and stop whining! It’s time for a little independence. This month would be a cosmic opportunity to get yourself severed from that pesky Siamese twin of yours, or take some language classes. Say hello to the ladies and goodbye to his Silk Stalkings video collection. No more sitting around while he plays on the Vax for hours! Around the 13th, you may file charges against him for taking more than his fair share—both testicles.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)
Beware!!! As the crab of the heavens, you will find a colony of your peers living in your pants (see condom ad in Special Section for information) on the 3rd. How happy you'll be mid-month, Moonchild, when your sex life makes a single solar flare from its black hole. Although this supernova is short-lived, it will tide you over to the next new moon.

Leo (July 23-August 22)
You are the king of the jungle, the master of the bush. Don’t get cocky too early this month—make yourself a little vulnerable. Let the kitten in you replace your roar with a purr. After that last unsuccessful hunt, take time to lick your wounds, etc. Relax! The harem will make its way back to your lair around the 20th—expect cubs on the 30th.

Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22)
Unlock the chastity belt and put the key in your hope chest. Like always, you’ll never let them snatch away your prized possession. Focus on new financial opportunities, your class schedule, and fruits and vegetables such as cherries and cucumbers. If your boyfriend’s name is Joseph, don’t forget to learn about birth control. Nobody will buy that story about the "Lord" more than once.

Libra (Sept. 23-Oct. 22)
Since your sign is the scale, watch your scales this month, you’re putting on some poundage. Forget about watching what you eat, Scalemaster, it’s what they call “a gland problem.” Summer’s coming, and there’s a lovely suit wait—

See Scope on page 9