NEWS 4: THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

Internships can give you the edge
By Scott Windham

Senior David Stewart spends his Tuesday afternoons this semester teaching classes and coaching cross-country. The history major from Harrisonburg, Virginia,
is an intern at Charlotte Latin, a local private school. After three weeks of observation in September, David will now
conduct a discussion seminar in U.S. History and teach a tenth-grade U.S. History Survey. In addition, David plans to assist
with coaching the cross-country team.

David learned about the internship opening through Education Department Head Dr. Grace Mitchell. He states that he had considered teaching
as a possible career, but that he “wanted to make sure what it was about” before committing himself to a
career in education. So far, says David, the experience has been positive.

Meredith Harris ’91 is in charge of locating and researching internships at the Office of Career Services. Meredith notes that
many offices on campus have information on internships. She suggests that interested students use some of the following contacts: Ken
Wood in the Office for Experiential Programs, Jack Perry or Laura Malenas at the Dean Rusk Program, Service Coordinator Gigi
Cooke, or the heads of academic departments. In addition, Meredith highly recommends consulting the internship guidebooks at Career Services. These
guidebooks, which list internships by location and by vocation, contain over five hundred one-year, semester, or summer internships. The fields
run the gamut from arts to sports. Around half are paid positions, and Meredith...

FLAG plans National Coming Out Day celebration
By Lexy DeVane

National Coming Out Week begins today, October 11, nationwide. The purpose of the week is to provide a positive atmosphere
for homosexual people to step out of the closet and for others to accept homosexuality after realizing some of their
friends and family are homosexuals. Members of F.L.A.G. (Friends of Lesbians and Gays) have planned several awareness-building events to recognize
this week.

F.L.A.G.’s chairperson David Haslam hopes the week will help “educate the student body on what it is to be gay
and educate anyone questioning their sexuality in an attempt to make the coming out process easier.” Haslam believes F.L.A.G.’s role
in its third charter year at Davidson is largely educational. As Chairperson, he hopes to continue to “break down the
stereotypes about gay persons and their lifestyles and to make Davidson a friendly community for people who might be gay.”

F.L.A.G. has arranged for a pictorial narrative to be displayed in the Union Gallery. These photographs depict the Homosexual Rights
March on Washington last Spring in which a Davidson F.L.A.G. delegation participated. Junior Anni Kirkland, a member of the delegation,
said, “the exhibit is a tribute and a profound educational opportunity for us all.”

The Davidson Delegation in Washington met several Davidson alumni who proclaimed their homosexuality after graduation. Haslam said, “One alumnus, upon
noticing the Davidson sign in the march, spoke to the group. He thanked us for our public support and expressed
his pride in this symbolic gesture.”

The F.L.A.G. meeting this Thursday at ten o’clock in the Wilson Room will be a special presentation by Haslam on
the issue of Gays in the military. Haslam spent this summer in Washington lobbying this issue. F.L.A.G. meetings are open
to all.

F.L.A.G.’s presence on campus marks the first step in accepting homosexuality. Haslam concluded, “Davidson students have the analytical and logical
skills to understand homosexuality, we are just trying to give them the information.”Notes that Career Services is striving to increase
the number of paid internships. The guidebooks give the following reasons to get an internship: “to gain experience, to explore
an interest, to build a base of knowledge about the world of work, or to decide [whether] you want to
do this type of work.” Students interested in an internship may call the Office of Career Services or stop by
to visit Meredith. Students who are planning to apply for an internship and do not have a resume should take
time to write one using Career Services’ Resume Handbook. The book provides guidelines which should help students create a unique
resume that stands out.

Admissions Discover continued from page 1

Quips and Cranks, SGA, the Union, Reach Out, Honor Council, Dean Rusk Program, and religious life. A freshman hall counselor
also spoke to the students. Meanwhile, parents met with representatives from the Financial Aid Office and Dean of Students Will
Terry. The day ended with a dinner for students and their parents. Roberta Stolpen of Davidson Ambassadors said 70 of
the students took the opportunity to spend a night at Davidson on Sunday and attend classes of their choice on
Monday. Freshmen and sophomores served as hosts for the visitors. Over 50 Davidson students helped with registering as well as
hosting students and giving campus tours.

Photo by Lisa Watson

Don Jayasinghe '94 was sworn in as ISA president. His efforts have made the International Student Association a reality.

Ceremony marks ISA installation
By Wendy Lee

Officers for the new International Student Association were sworn into office during an installation ceremony Wednesday, October 6 at Eu
Hall. Ruth Pittard, Assistant Dean of Students, presided over the swearing in of ISA President Don Jayasinghe, Vice President Devjani
Dev, Secretary Li Lin Lee, Treasurer Jorge Thierman, and International Committee Chair Katrina O’Neal. Dr. Alberto Hernandez-Chiroldez swore in Senior
Rep Jorge Pardo, Junior Rep Ranjit Narayanan, Sophomore Rep Krista Tihanyi, Freshman Rep Dahlia Sherif, and One-Year Student Rep Slav
Brisuick. During the ceremony, students took part in a lamp lighting to symbolize international solidarity.

“A lamp when lit is symbolic of the light of wisdom that enables one to dispel the darkness of ignorance
and misery. When Zik Joseph of Uganda, Devjani Dev of India, Krista Tihanyi of Hungary, Katrina O’Neal of the USA,
and Jorge Pardo of Puerto Rico, representing the 5 major regions of the world, i.e., Africa, Asia, Europe, North America,
and Latin America joined hands to light the ceremonial lamp, they symbolized the birth of the International Student Association. The
ISA seeks to enhance international student life, strengthen bonds between internationals and Americans, and help the Davidson community develop a
better understanding and greater appreciation of the beauty and value of global diversity,” said Jayasinghe.

They say college is supposed to broaden your horizons. Next semester, take them literally. Next semester, broaden your horizons with
Beaver College. You can intern in London, ponder Peace Studies in Austria, cycle to class in Oxford, or sun yourself
in Mexico (while studying Spanish, of course). You can even linger at a cafe in Vienna or tour a Greek
isle. We also have a wide variety of integrated university programs in the U.K. and Ireland. For over 30 years
Beaver has been sending students abroad for the experience of their life. Now it's time for yours. Call us today
for more information.

Study Abroad with Beaver College.
1.800.755.5607
