SPORTS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993 17

Gridders come back for 21-14 win over Hampden-Sydney
By Robert Lloyd-Still

It was only fair for the game to end this way. Davidson has played in close games all year. This weekend in front of Davidson’s proud parents, the Cats prevailed in a 21-14 thriller. It was fitting that this game was decided by Davidson’s secondary. Cornerback Jason Branch intercepted two passes in the fourth quarter. At the beginning of the fourth quarter, Branch stole a pass from Wes Andrews. The Tigers had driven to the Davidson 17-yard line when Branch picked the pass off. That play came after Andrews appeared to connect with Jody Cohen for an apparent touchdown. However, holding was called and Andrews tried once again. This time Branch intercepted to end a scoring opportunity. 

With seven minutes left in the game, Branch intercepted another Andrews pass. After this interception, the Cats marched half the length of the field which culminated in a one-yard touchdown run from Shane Mills. While Branch played great defensively, Mills keyed the offense. Mills had 60 yards rushing and 83 receiving, for a combined 143 yards. During the final touchdown drive, Mills and Richard Howell connected on a 35-yard pass. Besides scoring the game-winning touchdown, Mills also scored the game’s first with a seven-yard run.

This game also marked the resurgence of Davidson’s defense. Against Methodist, the Cats lost the game in the final minutes by giving up some big pass completions. This week the Cats' secondary got even. In the game's final moments, Senior John Dalton ended one drive with an interception. And in Hampden-Sydney’s last chance, they failed in four attempts to complete a pass. A Davidson football team has not won seven games since 1969. This year’s squad has already won five. The Cats will travel next weekend to Centre College, before returning home November 13 to face Bridgewater College.

Volleyball restructures after trip west
By Matt Pitzer

It was a little strange to see volleyball coach Carolyn Blake so happy following Thursday’s loss to Furman. She wasn’t glad the team lost; rather, she was pleased with the way Davidson played, following what she described as a complete change in the team’s strategy. The new style of play didn’t result in immediate success. Furman beat the Wildcats 15-10, 13-15, 15-12, 15-13, but it has the team confident success is just ahead. After one day of practice with these complete shifts, Blake said, “we did what we needed to do. The more we practice, the better we’re going to get. It would have been nice to win, but winning and losing aren’t as important as learning to play differently.”

The team concentrates now on putting the ball into the hands of veteran players to make something happen on the court. And Blake praised Lorie Logan for distributing the ball well in the team’s first game with the new strategy. What prompted the shift was a slide which saw the Wildcats lose three matches in California over fall break, and three of four since their return through the Furman match, dropping Davidson’s record to 10-16. The lone win came October 22 at Marshall. “We have not been playing well,” Blake said. “We’ve been in a slump for a while. This is the kind of swing we needed.”

Against Furman, the Wildcats showed some strengths, particularly when they served well, but also made several mistakes. They lost one game on a mishit and another on what appeared to be a miscommunication and the ball fell in between two players. But Davidson also sustained several long rallies with fine saves on defense. “One of the biggest factors when we played well,” Blake said, “was we served really well. Our defense looked really good, much better than we’ve seen it before.” The coach also commended the play of middle blockers Katherine Anderson and Tara Smith. Against the Paladins, both teams won games in which they...

See Ball continued on page 20

Soccer ties Marshall in preview of SC tournament play
By Will Cobb

As the last seconds ticked off the clock Sunday afternoon around 4:45 p.m., the 1993 regular season came to a close for the Davidson Wildcats. Along with a frustrating season fittingly came a frustrating tie with the Marshall Thundering Herd at 1-1. This tie brought the Cats' record to a disappointing 7-11-2 overall with a 2-3-1 conference record. Now the second season begins this Friday in Greensboro, NC, where the Cats will face Marshall again at 2:00 PM at the Bryan Park Complex. The 2-3-1 conference record leaves Davidson as the 4th seed. The winner of the Davidson-Marshall game will face the number one seeded Furman Paladins on Saturday.

After a six-game road trip, the Cats finally got to come home for their final two conference games. Following the 3-2 loss to Georgia Southern, Davidson came home looking to break their five-game losing streak when they faced Appalachian State University. Unfortunately, no relief could be found as the Mountaineers broke a 1-1 tie with 55 seconds remaining to steal the possible victory from the Cats. Freshman Robert Clarke notched his second goal of the season for Davidson’s lone goal. After letting the slide...extend to six straight losses, Davidson traveled to Rock Hill, South Carolina to vent out their frustration on Winthrop University with a 5-0 thrashing. This game was over quickly as three goals were scored in the first 20 minutes of play, putting the game out of reach in the early stages. With an additional goal off a penalty kick by Tommy Suter before the half, the losing streak looked all but over with a 4-0 cushion at halftime. The rout began as Ben Hayes scored twice and Jon Olin added his fourth goal of the season. Robert Clarke punched in a beautiful goal for his third of the year to add insult to injury. The five goals stand as the best offensive output of the year. With the game out of reach, the Winthrop Eagles reduced their play to cheap shots as things got extremely physical. With the impressive performance, Coach Slagle hoped to carry this level of play into the season finale.

The Thundering Herd from Marshall University brought a group ready to play. As far as Southern Conference standings went, this game was meaningless, but on another level, it was very important. Both teams knew they would face each other five days later when they began, so this game boiled down to a preview of the tournament, as well as pride. With the losing streak over, Davidson looked to close out the regular season with two victories. “We played real well against Winthrop (on Friday),” said Slagle. “I thought we’d come out and play real well today (against Marshall).” What Davidson got was a stalemate, a tie, a game where no one goes home happy. The Cats took the lead in the first half when senior Andy Haile took a shot that appeared to be a routine save for the Marshall goalie. Luckily for Davidson, the ball was misplayed as it rolled under the keeper’s foot and into the goal for a 1-0 lead. This lead held until early in the second half when the Herd tied the game up at the 48-minute mark. No other goals would be scored as the score would stand at 1-1. With only 14 total shots in the game, it proved to be a defensive battle. In 120 minutes of play, Davidson managed 9 shots and Marshall took a mere 5. A healthy Neal Andrews, now back in goal, got three saves on the day. Davidson played shorthanded for most of the second half as they lost a player due to a red card, leaving them with only 10 players. A man up, Marshall relaxed and played to tie, making scoring opportunities for Davidson tough. Slagle added, “We were the better team, but just didn’t win the game.” Scoring has been difficult for the Cats all season long. The five goals versus Winthrop equaled the team’s of-

See Slagle continued on page 20

Photo by Mike W. Wang
Sophomore Ryan Northington jukes out his Appalachian State opponent as senior Andy Haile looks on Wednesday. ASU took the match 2-1.

Women's Soccer finishes at .500
By Neil Marks

A lot was riding on the Virginia Tech game for the women’s soccer team—it was the final game of the season, the final game of the seniors’ careers, it was a must-win game for a .500 season, and most players had an anxious parent waiting to be impressed in the stands. Top those reasons off with the fact that the Wildcats lost to Tech in a sub-par performance earlier in the season and it’s easy to see why the team came away with a 3-0 victory. “Since we lost earlier in the season to them, we had to prove that we were better. Our coaches told us that we each needed to find a reason to win,” said Senior Susan Taylor, who scored one of the three Wildcat goals. A rainy wet day made it hard to anticipate when the ball would continue rolling and when it would stop. “Hustling was very important since the balls were so unpredictable. We knew that they played rough and hard so we had to be especially tough if we wanted to end the season on a positive note,” said Freshman Melissa Moser.

Last Sunday the team battled back from a 2-0 deficit against Kentucky before losing in overtime 4-3. Down 2-0 at the half, the Wildcats came out hard and evened the score within five minutes. Davidson scored again to take the lead with 15 minutes to play, but Kentucky came up with a goal as well with six minutes left. A Kentucky goal in OT made a .500 season possible only with a win over Virginia Tech. The best way to describe the season as a whole was “up and down.” “We would play unbelievably well and come up with a big win over a team like UNC-Greensboro and then have to settle for a tie against a team like Catawba,” said Moser. The team’s 9-9-1 record alone doesn’t describe the team’s ability. The Wildcats hung tough in the first half against top twenty teams such as Duke, N.C. State, Maryland, and Vanderbilt. “I think it was a year for learning and gaining experience. The team was young and can only get better with more playing time together,” said Freshman Leslie Greiner.