SPORTS 12 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

Men's Tennis Knocks Off University of Virginia
5-2 Victory Ends Davidson's Seven-Year Losing Streak vs. ACC
By Brannon Buck

With a bastion of crowd support, an inspirational speech from captain Albie Varoski, and a “never say die” attitude, the
Davidson Men’s Tennis Team defeated The University of Virginia on Saturday for its first win over an ACC team in
seven years. Coach Frank’s team actually dominated the match, winning by a score of 5-2, which could have easily been
worse. On Friday, Davidson passed a tough test on the way to Virginia by defeating East Carolina 5-2. Against ECU,
the team struggled in the doubles but played strong singles to win at every position except number five. Albie Varoski
stood out by winning his singles and doubles matches.

In both matches this weekend, the Cats utilized the new collegiate match format to their advantage. This new format starts
with the doubles teams playing an “eight-game pro-set” (whichever team wins two of the three doubles matches gets one point),
then the singles are played counting one point apiece. Against both ECU and UVA, Davidson dropped one point in the
doubles competition but nullified it with strong singles play.

Early on during the Virginia match, it appeared as if Davidson might fall just short once again of what it
needed to beat an ACC school. In the doubles, Russell Briggs and Ryan Harper played an amazing match at number
one, defeating the Cavaliers 8-1. Even though the Cats lost at number three, David Jespersen and Holt Vaughan were on
their way to a victory at number two. But after serving for the match twice and being up 5-2 at
one point during the tie-breaker, they ended up losing the match. Davidson dropped the first point to Virginia, and it
looked like the “ACC curse” was taking effect.

Things turned around immediately in the singles. Vaughan played an outstanding match, winning 6-1, 6-3 at number two. Briggs saved
four set points to come from behind and win 7-6, 6-3 at number four. Daniel Grinnan won in three sets
4-6, 6-1, 6-1, and Dave Tonidandel smothered his opponent 6-4, 6-3. In by far the most “gutty” performance of the
day, Jespersen overcame severe muscle spasms in his back to pull out a victory.

Men's Basketball Falls to UTC, App. St.
By Bruce Balestier

With so much on the line in Saturday afternoon’s game at Belk Arena against Appalachian State, you might have expected
more of the Davidson basketball team. With a chance to bury the reeling Mountaineers, losers of five straight, beneath them
in the conference standings and all but lock up a top-six finish in the league, the Wildcats faltered instead. Davidson
(10-13, 7-8) never came up with the defensive stop it needed, and App State’s Billy Ross coaxed in a 25-foot
three-pointer with three seconds left to give his team a 79-76 win. Ross, the second-leading scorer in the Southern Conference
at more than 24 points a game, finished with 32 points, including seven three-pointers. His winning shot concluded a final
minute and a half of action in which Davidson several times failed to capitalize on chances to win the game.

J.D. Heuer tied the game at 76 with 1:29 to go when he made the front end of a one-and-one,
but missed the second (a 72% free throw shooter, Heuer finished one for five at the line). The Wildcats retained
possession though, when the rebound went out of bounds off an App. State player, and Detlef Musch was fouled on
the ensuing inbounds play. But he missed the front end of the one-and-one, and the Mountaineers took possession with 1:27
to play. Freshman Brandon Williams, inserted into the lineup for Janko Narat in an effort to stop Ross, forced him
into an off-balance miss from 17 feet with 50 seconds left, but ASU’s Nod Carter claimed the rebound, and the
Mountaineers reset the offense. Williams further harassed Ross with just over 10 seconds left by lunging forward to deflect a
pass into the backcourt. As the two players pursued the ball near midcourt, Williams went down, perhaps pushed by Ross,
who claimed the ball and took it the other way. Ross dribbled to the right wing.

See "NC A&T” on page 116-3, 1-6, 6-3 victory at number three. Once it was all over, Davidson had claimed
a 5-2 victory that left Varoski in hysterics. “I told the team that this was the seniors’ last chance at
an ACC team and to go out there and bust ass. I also said that if we got down, we
couldn’t give up. And we didn’t.” Coach Frank was jubilant as well, attributing the win to the players’ hard work
and the excellent crowd support. The victory leaves Davidson at 5-0 in dual match competition this year. The next home
match is on Tuesday at 4:00 against South Carolina, who is ranked top-ten in the nation. The Cats will be
trying to improve on their performance as they gun for a big upset over this SEC powerhouse.

Photo by Adam Knapp
Freshman Molly Burke hits a jump shot against Charleston Southern last week. The Lady Cats cancelled game against Radford has
raised charges of sexism in the Athletic Department.

Davidson Accused of Sexism in Cancelling Basketball Game
By Robert Lloyd-Still

According to the Charlotte Observer on Saturday, February 20, two Davidson professors accused the Davidson Athletic Department of sexism in
the cancellation of a women’s basketball game. Davidson was supposed to play Radford on Monday, February 15, but the game
was cancelled to allow the UNCC men’s basketball team to play Furman. UNCC was unable to play at the Coliseum,
because Neil Diamond needed to prepare for his concert the next day. Davidson received $4,500 for allowing UNCC to play
at Davidson.

The two Davidson professors, David Martin (Economics) and Mary Anne Moore (Physics), plan to present a two-page resolution at the
next faculty meeting. Martin, an economics professor, and Moore, a physics professor, told the Observer that the schedule change “humiliated
the women’s team.” The professors ended the resolution by adding that, “Davidson College should not be a sexist, money-grubbing institution.”
Martin and Moore want the school to release public apologies to the Radford and Davidson teams.

Davidson Athletic Director Terry Holland defended the decision by arguing that the switch generated a considerable amount of money for
Davidson athletics. Holland offered to reschedule the game during the day, but Coach John Filar only wanted to play at
night. Filar stated in Saturday’s Charlotte Observer, “It’s a very lousy time to play a game. We’d have been playing
it basically during the dinner hour. It would have been virtually impossible for anybody to attend. And I don’t want
to be the lead-in to a UNC-Charlotte men’s game.” However, Filar believed that no apology was necessary and he commended
the job Holland has done for women’s athletics at Davidson.

Hooff, Bickers Set School Records in Southern States Classic
By Will Cobb

Throughout the year freshman standout Churchill Hooff of Lorton, Virginia, has repeatedly produced impressive times. On Friday night, he did
the unexpected by capturing first place at the Southern States Championships in the 500-meter freestyle with a personal best of
4:40.19. Not only was it a personal best, but a school best, a Southern States Championships best, and even a
pool best. He became the school’s first medal recipient at the event, and the future cannot wait to see what
else he may accomplish.

Another outstanding performance was put in by Senior captain Curtis Bickers from Memphis, Tennessee who finished third in the one-meter
diving competition with a personal best that broke the Davidson school record for points total after 11 dives. He was
the second Davidson competitor to pick up a medal by earning the bronze. The diving teams did very well as
the men’s group picked up 43 points, while the women gathered 48. In Saturday night’s competition, Jennifer Schuetz reached the
medal round in the 400 Meter Individual. This meet closed out the season for the team, a season that has
been quite successful. The team will anxiously await next year to build on this year’s all-around substantial improvement.

Now Available: Applications for 1993-94 Financial Aid

Students who have not previously received financial aid may be eligible for grants, work-study jobs, federal loans and/or merit scholarships.
Application forms are available at the Financial Aid Office, #1 Jackson Court. Office hours are 9-12 and 2-4:30, Monday-Friday, and
the phone number is 892-2232. The deadline for applying for aid is May 1, 1993.
