THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

15

Back-to-back-to-back-to-back: Field hockey wins fourth title in four years

Hockey continued from page 14

continually split Catawba’s defense with quick passes and switching from one side of the field to the other. The Wildcats played with style and composure as they dominated the game.

At the end of the first half, the score was a whopping 6-0, with Kledis getting two goals, and Missy Potts, Nicole Ficeto, and Nancy Hilles each getting one. Potts also had three assists. Defensive standouts for the game were Robin Pepper, Jill Bennett, Erin Lang, and freshman Allison Rhoads. The 8-0 victory was a complete team effort.

In the final game of the tournament, the Wildcats faced Virginia Tech. Unfortunately, it seemed as if the Cats had used up all of their goals in the previous game. Davidson had numerous scoring opportunities but could not seem to get the ball into the cage.

The game was frustrating for the Wildcats: they were clearly the better team (Tech rarely got the ball over the 50-yard line), but they just could not score a goal.

The game remained scoreless through regulation and two overtime periods, which led into the penalty stroke shoot-out. Lang was the first shooter who placed the ball effortlessly into the upper right corner of the goal-cage. Davidson goalie Emily Coleman played with complete composure as she saved two of Tech’s strokes and let two others go wide.

Wildcat scoring machine Holly Kledis got the winning stroke, giving Davidson a final 2-0 victory in the shoot-out. The win, although not one of Davidson’s finest, had an exciting finish, and it led the team to its fourth Deep South Championship title.

During the final weekend of the 1993 field hockey season, the superior play and the undying dedication of the four seniors: Coleman, Lang, Bennett, and Hardesty. They were supportive leaders both on and off the field, and each one of them has given complete dedication and commitment to this team. These four players made the team a unique family, not just a group of student-athletes playing together.

The agony of defeat

Last year's flickerball champions, the Connor House team, coached by Scott Vermillion, lost the championship game 6-0 to the Stairmasters, last year's fourth Rich team. The Stairmasters scored on an intercepted pass early in the game and ended the season undefeated.

Photo by Casey Rogers

This week, the Wildcat swimmers had two meets, one at UNC-Chapel Hill on Wednesday, and another against VMI and Georgetown University at VMI on Saturday.

The Cats were not victorious against UNC-Chapel Hill on Wednesday, but on Saturday the women defeated Georgetown. The men beat VMI but lost to Georgetown. The women did not compete against VMI because VMI has no women's teams.

Among many notable performances on Saturday were those of sophomores Churchill Hoof and Julie Brabson, and freshman Karey Thompson.

You win some, you lose some

Hoof won the 500 yards freestyle, Brabson won the 1,000 yards freestyle, and Thompson took third in the 1,000 yards freestyle, which she had not been expecting to swim.

The current standings of the team are:

Women 3-4-0

Men 3-5-0

The next set of meets will be Nov. 20, at 2 p.m. against East Carolina University and William and Mary, at ECU. And on November 21, Davidson faces the University of Richmond and Mary Washington, at the University of Richmond.

Jen McGillan

————— Call Robert at 892-5241

Some big-time things are happening in the world of sports. Be a part of them.

Macintosh LC 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus 14" Display, Apple Keyboard II and mouse.

Apple PowerBook Duo™ 230 4/80 (with Macintosh External Floppy Disk Drive and PowerBook Duo Floppy Adapter not shown).

Macintosh Quadra® 610 8/160, Apple Color

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any select Macintosh or PowerBook computer, you'll also receive seven software programs. It’s all included in one low price. And the software package alone has a combined SRP value of $596. It was designed to give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy an Apple computer? It does more. It costs less. It’s that simple.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal.

For more information, visit your Apple Campus Reseller today!

For further information visit Computer Services Center. Contact Kim Kenyon at x2432.

October 1, is not included in the shown in this ad. But you will receive these same software programs in an integrated package.