THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993

Maya Angelou to "Electrify" Davidson Campus
By Mandy Curtis

Maya Angelou, distinguished poet, educator, historian, best-selling author, actress, playwright, civil-rights activist, producer, and director, will be visiting Davidson for the annual Reynolds Lecture at the College. Sponsored by the Public Lectures Committee, Angelou will be speaking in Love Auditorium at 8:00 pm on Wednesday, March 31.

The Public Lectures Committee, chaired this semester by Dr. Harry Thomas in the place of Dr. C. Shaw Smith, consists of faculty members including Dr. Don Kimmel, William Brown, and Stacy Smith. Students T.K. Tibby and Jennifer Humphrey are also a part of the committee that chooses lecturers based on suggestions from the faculty, staff, and students. The committee organizes different lectures throughout the year including the Reynolds, Wearn, Smith, and McGall lectures at Davidson that are funded by endowments granted to the College. Of the lectureships, the Reynolds is the oldest, endowed 35 years ago by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation of North Carolina.

According to Kimmel, this year's Reynolds lecturer, Angelou, was one of a “small list” of candidates that the committee explored for the event. By a unanimous decision, the Committee agreed to pursue Angelou. This was the second time Angelou has been suggested and sought after for the Reynolds lecture at Davidson. According to Program Advisor, Stacy Smith, “We were lucky in solidifying our plans with Angelou.”

Angelou, Bill Clinton's inaugural poet, has made many accomplishments in her life. Only to name a few, she was the first woman editor of The Arab Observer of Cairo, the only English news weekly in the Middle East, and the northern coordinator for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference upon the request of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. She was the writer of the screenplay “Georgia, Georgia,” the first original script by a black woman to be produced and has had ten best-selling books including “I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.”

Angelou has been awarded many honors in many different fields. These include a National Book Award nomination for “I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings,” a Pulitzer Prize nomination for “Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'Fore I Diiie,” and a Tony Award nomination for her performance in “Look Away.” She was appointed to a lifetime position as the first Reynolds Professor of American Studies at Wake Forest University in North Carolina in 1981 and was honored with the North Carolina Award in Literature in 1987.

Despite the vast accomplishments of Angelou, John Meroney, a senior at Wake Forest University and editor of the Wake Forest Critic, wrote in The Critic that Angelou is falsely celebrated. Meroney claimed that she is known as a “distinguished professor of American Studies” at Wake Forest when in actuality, she offers no classes, has a “broom-closet” office, and collects an annual salary in the six figures. Contrary to Meroney’s article, Rosemary Hawver of Charlotte wrote in The Charlotte Observer about her daughter's poetry course taught by Angelou. Hawver explained that Angelou “expected only the best from her students” and that she feels “lucky to have had [Angelou] be a part of her daughter’s education.”

According to a write-up by Art Assignment Sparks Controversy

NORTHRIDGE, GA (CPS) - About two dozen California State University-Northridge students barricaded themselves inside the university president’s office to protest the firing of a student teacher who asked them to draw nude pictures of themselves. The Feb. 17 protest, which ended peacefully with no arrests, highlighted the case of Rupert Carl Stechman, 25, a former graduate teaching associate who claims his views are being censored by the university. “They’re trying to expel me now,” said Stechman, who is studying for a master’s degree in art. “It’s pretty stressful.”

Piano Man Donates 38 Keys

STONY BROOK, NY (CPS) - Pop singer and songwriter Billy Joel donated a concert piano to Stony Brook after a burst water main flooded the school’s center for the arts with one million gallons of mud and water, school officials said.Condom Lady Sings About Safe Sex

COLUMBUS, OH (CPS) - "When you take off your pants, like my mamma say/Don’t forget the price you have to pay,” crooned the grandmotherly woman as she strummed her guitar in the lobby of the Student Health Center at Ohio State University.

Meet Jane the Condom Lady.

A familiar figure on the OSU campus, the fifty-something Jane Scott belts out prophylactic tunes and passes out condoms in a one-woman crusade to promote safe sex and raise AIDS awareness on campus. The mother of three sons, Scott became aware of the dangers of unprotected sex several years ago and took it upon herself to leave condoms on students’ pillows, she said in a story in the Ohio State Lantern, the campus paper. Her unusual condom packages are assembled by the hundreds in the basement of her Columbus home, with members of the Health Care staff occasionally assisting in the production line.

CAMPUS CRIME
Compiled by Jennifer Kerns

February 4: The tires of a car parked in Belk parking lot were slashed causing $175 worth of damage.

February 10: A gold bracelet valued at $400 was stolen from a purse in Richardson dorm.

February 25: A car parked in the Belk lot had its speakers ($100) stolen.

March 8: A 29-year-old white male from Cornelius was charged and arrested on counts of indecent exposure and 1st degree trespassing. This individual was arrested on November 29, 1992 for the same charge.

March 9: The Phi Delta Theta House reported a coat and camera stolen from the house, valued at $280.

Between March 9 and March 21: At some time within these dates, a burglar broke into a car in Lingle Manor Parking. The convertible top was removed for entrance and must be replaced. Total damage is $1000. Also during Spring Break, a car parked in the Admissions parking lot sustained little damage, but $200 worth of items, mostly tapes, were stolen.

If you have any information concerning any of these crimes please contact the Davidson College Police.

See Maya on page 3

Professors’ Text Somewhat Different
ECO continued from page 1

"We’re most fortunate in having fine colleagues and students here [at Davidson] who inspire us to strive for excellence in the classroom,” Hess adds. “We don’t pretend that sitting down and reading this will be like reading a novel. But our premise is that students gain when the writing is precise and the material is presented fairly. We do not ask students to accept results on faith, rather, we show them how the results are derived.”

The book contains thirty-five chapters, emphasizing international economics as well as the political-economic dynamics of policy making. The authors split up work, writing the chapters that dealt specifically with their areas of expertise, Hess focusing on macroeconomics and Ross focusing on microeconomics.

West Publishing Company has already begun marketing the book to professors, who are now placing orders for textbooks for next fall’s classes. Dick Fenton, executive editor at West Publishing said, “We have already received great feedback from our salespeople about this book, and we’re certain it’s an editorial success. But whether it will be a sales success remains to be seen. If the book does prove successful it will be edited and re-released in three years.”

The debate is worth the effort. Join others with a hunger for God's service, and an urge to explore. Meet the people and feel the warmth of Austin Seminary. If your personal road map calls for insights in Bible, church history, pastoral care, theology, Christian education, world religions, worship, ethics, and ministry — continue your journey with us. Continue the journey of faith. We offer Master of Arts and Master of Divinity degrees. Registration deadline for fall: July 15. Come journey with us. Contact Eleanor Cozad Cherryholmes, Director of Vocations and Admissions.

AUSTIN PRESBYTERIAN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
100 East 27th Street, Austin, Texas 78705-5797; 800-777-6127

Davidsonians! Come Browse. We've plenty of choices in campus wear, and great selections for Him or for Her for that upcoming interview.

Apparel for Men and Women
Downtown Mooresville for 81 years