THE DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Elaine Connor
Post Office
Belinda Higdon & Amy Hogg
The Soda Shop
Helen Short
Habitat for Humanity
Photos by Laura Dennis

Ada continued from page 6

including Davidson Elementary Tutoring, programs for senior citizens, as well as Boy and Girl Scouts. Reverend Shirley has also worked to bring county and other already-established services to Davidson. Parenting classes, such as “Wee Luv,” a preschool program called Hooked on Phonics, job training programs for teenagers, the SHARE food program, free health clinics, community development leadership training courses, as well as health and child care classes are all held at the Ada Jenkins Center during the year. Many members are excited that the center is the new location for a Head Start class, which will help AJC Supports Underprivileged disadvantaged preschool-aged children in Davidson to better prepare for school.

On weekdays, the cafeteria is used for the Meals on Wheels program for senior citizens from Cornelius, Huntersville, and Davidson. Davidson Parks and Recreation uses the gym of the old school for summer and year-round recreational activities for the whole community, ranging from basketball games for children to exercise and dance classes for adults. Perhaps the most frustrating aspect of Reverend Shirley’s work has been trying to get more people in the community involved with the center. If you would like to get involved, contact a Reach Out officer.

An Alum & Resident Reflects on Past
By William D. Vinson

My memories of the town of Davidson and the college are based on trips to Davidson to visit my Aunt, Miss Maude Vinson, attendance of a summer Music Camp run by James Christian Pfohl, and my college days in 1942-43 and after World War II, 1946-48. The size of the downtown area as I remember it was approximately the same as it is today, but the makeup was somewhat different. The major attraction was a movie theater located where the present BP gas station is now. If one was a serious moviegoer, that was not the place to go. The student body in attendance would make their feelings known in a loud and raucous manner particularly if the show didn’t start on time or the reels were mixed. The floor was wooden and several hundred (at least it seemed that many) pounding feet along with derogatory remarks would match closely the dB sound level of present-day rock groups.

Other differences included a horse stable located about where the back of the Habitat store is now located. There, one could rent a riding horse for an hour or two. There was a hardware store along with several grocery stores that would deliver. Additionally, the White Drug Store that served real milkshakes was located where Tom Clark now has his store and museum. The Post Office was around the corner on Depot Street, along with the Coffee Cup (where I ate my meals after the war) and the local jail. The Post Office was housed in a building, since torn down, that used to be a hotel. Interestingly, a new inn is being built on the same site. What goes around, comes around.

The oldest building downtown, I think, is the Carolina Inn, which was known as the Helper Hotel. This was built around 1830-35. My great grandfather, Hanson Pickney Helper, acquired it in the early 1840s and ran it as an inn and store. The store portion was on the north side of the building. Pickney was also the Postmaster and maintained the inn until late in the century. For a while, it was used to house the “young ladies” that came for various college functions. In the 1950s, the College purchased the building and restored the outside to its original appearance.

Pickney was one of three brothers: Hanson, Hogan, and Hinton Helper who were born and brought up in Mocksville, NC, just south of Winston-Salem in a house, still standing, that had been owned by Squire Boone, Daniel Boone’s father. Pickney, as many of the former residents of Davidson, is buried in the College Cemetery on North Main Street. As I recall, not much has changed on North Main Street or Concord Road out beyond Grey Road other than some restorations. The College-owned houses used to be identified by the lack of upkeep, but since Bob Collins has been here, that has completely turned around to the pleasure of the town residents. Additionally, there used to be a funeral home on South Main that has been converted into a private residence. Now when one dies, one must go at least to Huntersville.

In years past, many of the homes around the campus were boarding houses for fraternities and independents. My grandmother boarded the Beta fraternity from 1898 until the early 1920s in my current home. In fact, our house was built with an oversized dining room having an outside door. Hooks where the boys hung their coats are still on the wall outside the door. A strong bond existed between many of the women who ran the boarding houses and “my boys.” This setup provided jobs for single women, widows, and those who needed to supplement their family income. It was one of few jobs that was available to them at that time.

The town of Davidson has changed over the years, some for the better and some in the other direction, depending upon your taste. However, there have notbeen drastic renewal projects as experienced in other towns such as Charlotte. Fortunately, many of the original buildings have stayed. Only the occupants have changed. Let us hope this continues.

William D. Vinson graduated from Davidson in 1948 and has lived in town most of his life.

Short Story... The Notice - By Mike Cruise

The porch was so piled with stuff that from the car I couldn’t see the house number, or even if there was one; little concrete elves and mermaids and men in riding pants—all scattered about this dingy porch, among shaggy potted trees and plaster Virgins—a little fantasy jungle. The sun was glaring hard on the crumbly sidewalk stinging my white cheeks. Voices droned in the summer background, between the small houses, grumbling through the little neighborhood. The sedan door boomed closed behind me and I spit out the piece of Juicy Fruit that had sponged up all my saliva.

A faded plastic bamboo blind, hanging on the far left of the porch, blocking off the sun, made the porch look like a cave, dark, three steps up from the sidewalk. I crept up the steps.

“Who dat?” a little voice barked from somewhere on the porch. She must have seen me jump because she laughed a little too, but stopped quickly; probably because she saw I was white. I don’t know. I couldn’t see her yet.

“I said who der and what you want?” Now I could see her, sitting over in a chair by a concrete lion that looked to be some sort of table, under a brown hanging fern. She was real dark and the shadows hung over so I couldn’t see her eyes, but she was drinking out of a dark bottle and had her dress pulled up almost to her crotch for the heat. Something was on her lap too, but I couldn’t make it out and didn’t want to.

“Now you gonna speak, boy? What you doin’ up here, snoopin’ around or somethin’?” The sight of a white boy, no older than her youngest grandchild, standing on her porch with a white envelope in his hand, was not a happy one for her. I told her who I was and that I had this envelope for a Mister Terrence Shore, who I presumed lived in this very house. My eyes were adjusting somewhat to the shade now so I could see her better. Her kinky hair shot up wild and her eyes were very round and made her look a bit crazy, like she was holding her breath even when she was speaking. The plastic blind didn’t keep the heat off the porch with the light.

“I’m looking for a Mister Terrence Shore,” I said. “Is he around?”

“He busy wherever he is and sure don’t have time to be fussin’ with strangers. Did he win the lottery?” she asked with another slurping giggle. I said I wished he had, but as far as I knew, he hadn’t and that was not why I was here. A cat slid down from between her wide thighs and startled me when it moved. It hustled over to where I was, rubbed around my ankles and sniffed up my cuff, before lazing herself down onto an old door mat set aside, it seemed, for just that purpose. She stretched and rolled all the way over so she came back up staring right at me.

One time, years earlier, my brother and I found a dead stray under our hedge and burned it in gasoline from the lawn mower can. It curled up, blackened like a burnt macaroni. I thought it might be hot enough on the porch to burn this cat but she didn’t seem bothered. She was a good-looking house cat, round and slow and comfortable laying out in the patch of sun she had found. The woman had been talking on, not taking any notice of the cat, and not doing anything to help my cause, only sucking up the last bits of stale porch air. Every rotten breath she uttered forced itself up my nose, making me sick, and blind, and deaf. The cat had begun to burn in the sun, I thought. First the hair, singed away, and now the flesh, crackling, popping, smoking black throughout the porch. The woman talked on; breathing in the rotten smoke and blowing it out. Mr. Shore was not at home.

“I told you boy, he ain’t here...” she warned. I tried to explain that I was then leaving the envelope with her, but my swollen tongue wouldn’t bend. The envelope would tell them to clear off the porch and get out. The house was no longer theirs. She already knew that. I dropped the envelope onto her lap and slid down the three steps, off the porch. The dry summer air, dusty and smelling of asphalt, flushed out the porch’s queasy haze, as I squinted against the sun toward the sedan. The cat flashed through my legs and into the shadows beneath the car. The grumble of the neighborhood filed back into my ears. Little laughs and bitches poking in and out. It was hotter than hell. These people were burning up. A whole neighborhood of black people burning up in the summer sun. The shade in the car passed over me like a breeze, cooling my pink face. The tip of my nose was red and tender, and especially...

See Story on page 9