THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

Sigma Phi Epsilon Receives Order to Educate

By Mandy Curtis

Since the “road-tripping” incident that inflicted injury on freshman Alfredo Urbino on February 1, the Sig Ep fraternity house has been put on an educational program as punishment for this pledging violation. A Review Committee headed by Patterson Court Advisor Kurt Holmes, including Patterson Court Council President Julie Petty, KA President Rod Carter, Assistant Dean of Students John Eaves, and faculty representative Alex Pinkston, formed to review the situation. They then made recommendations to Dean Terry and President Kuykendall as to the actions the College should take in dealing with individuals involved and the fraternity itself.

According to Holmes, the sanctions made between the College and the Sig Ep house are “programmatic and not punitive.” The program, which includes various “projects,” is designed to help the fraternity and the whole court. Holmes did not release specifics about the sanctions received by the individuals and the whole fraternity with respect for the members of the house. However, he feels that it is “time to talk.”

Scott Newnam, president of Sig Ep, would not comment on the details of the sanctions. He explained that the fraternity is “going beyond what the College is asking of them.” There will be an All-Campus Educational Program sponsored by the Sig Ep fraternity to help the court and the campus, according to Newnam.

Because Sig Ep's National organization responded quickly and worked with the chapter at Davidson, the College was able to come to decisions quickly, according to Holmes. Currently, the fraternity is still in good standing with its national organization as well as with the College.

Flu Epidemic Sweeps the Campus

By Jennifer Kerns

You know it is cold and flu season when you can hear coughing and sneezing over the sound of your professor. Davidson has recently fallen victim to a malevolent virus. The health facility is as crowded as the Union Cafe at times. According to the infirmary records, an average of 40-50 people visited the infirmary each day this week. These numbers are not extraordinary, however. Joe Ann Land, a nurse at the Student Health Center, comments, “ever since we came back from break, it has been bad.”

Most of the students treated had viral infections with flu-like symptoms, although there have been a few cases of a more serious nature. Unfortunately, there is not any prescription medication to solve these problems (the flu shot is not available). The sufferer must instead stock up on over-the-counter drugs like Tylenol, Sucrets, and Robitussin to alleviate pain and congestion. Some traditional ways to avoid and ease flu symptoms include sleeping (more than eight hours per night), gargling with salt water to relieve a sore throat, and perhaps buying a humidifier to help clear congestion.

Most of the students have been attending class despite their health. “I cannot afford to miss classes,” one sick individual declares. While it is conscientious to go to class sick, it is also hazardous to everyone else’s health. Rima Chakrabati, one of many flu sufferers, laments that, “one of the hardest things about recovering is that you think you are getting better, but when you try to resume your normal schedule, you find you are headed towards a relapse. It hits you very hard.”

No-Cluster Move by RLO Upsets Students

RLO continued from page 1

This is an obvious reduction to the advantages usually given to those who survived freshman year, and we feel it is a poor solution to a problem that has been invented by the RLO itself.”

Other students feel good about the change. Leigh Patterson believes it will have a positive impact. “The concern now is that students do not care about meeting new people and are not willing to reach out to others on their halls. I think people would feel more comfortable about getting to know others on the hall better if they were not living with a cluster of friends. Students will be more willing to participate in hall interaction.”

What do you think? Residence Life encourages students to read the printed explanation of the policy and to come by RLO to discuss their opinions. Terry said the office hopes to do an exit survey at the close of next year to evaluate the results.At times.” She insists that her employers have been very good about excusing her from work and that professors have also expressed concern. If a student feels ill, he or she should visit the infirmary. It is as close as you will get to the treatment of home, fresh chicken soup, and of course, Mom.

News Staff Meeting
Monday, 9:00 pm, Wilson Room.

WE ARE NOT STRICTLY A MEXICAN RESTAURANT!!!
Although we do have the most extensive and most authentic Mexican menu in the area, we also feature items such as:
- Fresh Seafood
- Wine
- Hand Cut Steaks
- Rotisserie Chicken & Ribs
- Imported Beers
- Fresh Homemade Dessert
- Pasta

PRESENT THIS COUPON AND GET 12% OFF OF YOUR ENTREES.

Wendell’s Cole can also handle your catering needs. Wendell’s will cater anything from a backyard BBQ to an in-house black tie party or wedding receptions! Wendell’s can cater parties from 5 to 500 people.

Our Hours:
Lunch: Tues.-Fri. 11:30 am - 2:00 pm
Dinner: Tues.-Thurs. 5:30-9:00 pm
Fri.-Sat. 5:30-10:00 pm
Sun. & Mon. Closed

Located in Shops on the Green
896-0078
Take-Out Available!

College, explained Holmes. Pledging has continued. “As tragic as it was, I think some good has come out of it,” stated Holmes. He said that the incident has helped in making it easier for others to come forward if there are any violations of pledging regulations on campus. “We are constantly encouraging pledges and fraternity brothers to tell of any violations.” However, Holmes also stated that because the College took strong actions in dealing with this situation, the message has been sent that the College is serious. Since the incident, there have been other things that Holmes has followed up on but he has learned of no other specific incidents. Holmes feels that the impact the Sig Ep incident has had on the other fraternities has been twofold. They have either “toned down their programs or have gotten more discreet; it’s probably a combination of the two.” He stated, “I'd like to think that no one has done a ‘road-trip’ since.” Currently, the College has “pretty good pledging restrictions; however, next year there will be more specific guidelines,” according to Holmes. “Road-tripping” and personal servitude will be among the things to be specifically mentioned next year.

5:30 p.m. Lecture Series...
Photo Courtesy of the Chaplain's Office

On March 3-4, the Thomas F. Staley Foundation presents John and Elizabeth Sherrill. The couple, both writers of religious novels and essays, will present a lecture series titled, "Celebrating Your Uniqueness." Wednesday evening's lecture will be in the 900 Room from 7:30-9:00 p.m. Thursday afternoon's lecture will also be in the 900 Room from 4:00-

Election Results Posted
By Alice Felmlee

Last week the Council on Campus and Religious Life, the Student Conduct Council, and Reach Out held their elections. All of these positions run without campaigning except for Reach Out. The Reach Out candidates for President and Vice President, Julia Barnes and freshman, Nicole Howard, ran unopposed thus no banners, flyers, or pamphlets lined the dorm halls, classrooms, or the Chambers Lawn.

Because run-offs were required for both the CCRL and the SCC elections, the winners were not announced until Wednesday evening. Joining the CCRL are Alex Crumbley and Chris Edmonston; Shaye Benton and John Harper are now members of the SCC. The Reach Out positions were pretty much decided on the night of the candidates' meeting as both were unopposed. “When I went to the meeting they told me I was unopposed and then congratulated me on becoming the new Reach Out President,” said Julia Barnes.

John Philpott, Chairman of the Elections Committee, commented, “In order for a candidate to win they must have a majority plus one. Whenever there are a lot of people running for one or two offices, the need for run-offs increases.” In addition, he called for reform to the tally process. “Counting all of the ballots by hand and tallying them all by hand takes a ridiculous amount of time and leaves itself open to error.” As an alternative, he suggested scan-tron sheets or even old voting machines.

Now Available: Applications for 1993-94 Financial Aid
Students who have not previously received financial aid may be eligible for grants, work-study jobs, federal loans, and/or merit scholarships. Application forms are available at the Financial Aid Office, #1 Jackson Court. The deadline is May 1, 1993. 892-2232