THE DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993

Perspective... You Can Never Go Home Again
By Nathan Seay

Let me introduce myself, I’m what Dean Terry refers to as a prodigal son. I came to Davidson my freshman
year; for a variety of reasons I left. I goofed off for a year and a half at an institute
of medium education, but now I’m back for good (I hope). Quite a bit has changed at Davidson in these
two short years. I’m still suffering from culture shock. I can remember the days (or was it but a dream?)
when as a thirsty freshman, I would cram up against hoards of minors against the staircase in a random fraternity,
waiting for some divine twenty-one year old to ascend from the pit, eight cups of fermented heaven precariously held in
his hands. Apparently, malt and barley have some sort of mysterious sterilizing power; nobody cared where the digits immersed in
the glorious liquid had been. I turned twenty-one the first day of classes this semester, ecstatic about carrying on the
tradition of helping out my fellow (younger) man. But, alas, my dreams were dashed against the cruel rocks of the
new, improved alcohol policy.

“New policy?” I scoffed. “Ha! Ha! Watch me be a stealthy man and ignore it.” Unbeknownst to me, there was
a veritable SWAT team at this party. These people don’t fool around; the inflammatory red shirts were pretty intimidating. (The
cop with the .45 caught my attention, as well). I didn’t seem to remember any sort of weaponry at the
parties two years ago. I weighed my options and decided that complicity was in my best interest. Intent on my
goal of becoming a demigod in several minors’ eyes, I started my trek. My generosity dwindled rapidly. One beer at
a time? Are you crazy? Just look at me. I’m no athlete. I gave it the old college try (no
pun intended), but apparently I hadn’t spent enough time on my Stairmaster to be able to keep it up for
very long. I never dreamt that corrupting minors would take so much exertion. I decided that it just wasn’t worth
it. I found myself spending a great deal of time in the basement with the other twenty-one year olds—the Haves,
if you will. The Have Nots were clamoring above, but their pleas fell on deaf ears, and tired legs. This
new (to me, anyway) alcohol policy is destroying a vital link between the upper- and lowerclassmen. There is nothing like
a twenty-one year old coming up the stairs to a throng of dehydrated minors, saying, “This Bud’s for you.”

Monitors: Enforce Law or Manage Risks? Inconsistencies Make Job Difficult, Confusing
By Yvette Pita

It’s Friday night, and there is a party on Patterson Court. Tonight, Braulio Lopez prepares for the party differently than
other students on campus. Before the party begins, he signs in with the Campus Police department, where he also picks
up a distinctive red shirt and walkie-talkie. Lopez is an alcohol monitor. His role at the party is different from
other people’s. Instead of dancing to the music of a band or D.J., he is paid six dollars an hour
to ensure that the regulations of the new alcohol policy are enforced. What does his job encompass? Lopez’s interpretation of
his job is to look for people who are out of control, and keep them from causing trouble. However, other
alcohol monitors disagree with him. Chris Edwards believes that, as an alcohol monitor, he should try to stop underage drinking.
In fact, almost every alcohol monitor sees his or her job differently. They each have their own interpretation.

The inconsistency in alcohol monitors’ actions has posed problems for the alcohol policy, the student body, and the alcohol monitors,
themselves. Some interpret the new alcohol policy more leniently than others, and both extremes are hurt by this. Strict alcohol
monitors are frustrated by lenient ones. According to Edwards, “Some [monitors] will sit on the couch and do nothing the
whole party. I think they contribute, in a way, to the uncooperative pattern of some of the students.” On the
other hand, lenient monitors feel that the strict ones make their lives more difficult. Travis Hinson quit his job as
a monitor because of this problem. According to him, “When one alcohol monitor does something out of proportion, then people
think all

Professor Offers Thoughts on Alcohol — Important Issue is Abuse, Not Policy
By Sally McMillen

These comments are not an effort to reinstate Prohibition. And they are offered knowing that the alcohol problems at Davidson
exist nationwide. Stories from schools such as Princeton, Duke, and Dartmouth have a familiar ring. But I am not teaching
at these institutions. What troubles me and many of my colleagues is not alcohol use, but alcohol abuse. Most Davidson
students would agree that the school has an alcohol problem. Alcohol is the focus of most social activities, and activities
where alcohol is not served usually attract few students. This obsession creates two major problems. The first, as everyone knows,
is that heavy drinking often leads to disruptive, violent, and destructive behavior. At Davidson, alcohol seems to be at the
heart of bad behavior. Date rape usually occurs when two people have been drinking; dorm rooms are trashed when a
student is drunk; and violence breaks out at fraternities when men have overindulged. Secondly, this focus on alcohol is a
greater problem here than at many other institutions because of our size and isolation. With the exception of Union activities,
few acceptable alternatives exist beyond a social life centered around drinking.

Overindulging in alcohol creates a negative environment. I hear about fathers who do not want their daughters to attend Davidson;
of high school counselors who recommend that students not apply; of students (usually female) who transfer. The reasons are the
same: a social life focused soExclusively on alcohol. It has been many years since I was in college, so I
have difficulty understanding the compulsive need for some students to drink excessively before they can attend a party. I have
heard that many male and female students feel more comfortable at parties if everyone is drunk. Can one not drink
in moderation—or perhaps not at all—and still enjoy oneself? Why is fun often defined by how much one has had
to drink? And if a student is underage and can’t get beer at a party, why does social acceptance derive
from drinking in the privacy of a dorm room? Students repeatedly ask that the college treat them as adults and
allow them to make decisions about how they will socialize. Unfortunately, some are asking for the right to be mature
in order to engage in immature behavior. Students ask that they be able to control their own parties, a request
that often sounds as if some students demand control in order to have the right to be out of control.
Could students socializing at Davidson reflect more mature behavior and prove that they can handle more responsibility? The various challenges
to the alcohol policy and code of responsibility this year cause one to wonder. Davidson is a great college; the
faculty and students are stimulating and lively. All of us have taught and are teaching some wonderful students who work
hard and constantly challenge us. Not all students abuse alcohol. But there is no doubt that the current social climate
has a negative impact on classroom performance and on our ability to treat one another decently. Davidson could be a
better place. We all have a responsibility to this institution, but most importantly, to one another. We could create a
more interesting, varied, intellectual, and inclusive climate by shifting the focus of social life away from alcohol. More students would
perform better in the classroom and seek out the limitless possibilities that can accrue from a superior education. There are
productive and rewarding ways to spend one's free time besides Davidson parties. Charlotte offers a variety of activities, such as
the “Gallery Crawl” last weekend. Davidson Outdoors has weekend trips to climb Mount Rogers or go white water rafting. Students
could become actively involved in working for a new and expanded Union. Fraternities and eating houses could foster stronger ties
between faculty and students, such as sponsoring a student-faculty softball game or 10K race. I would urge us to begin
a dialogue, not on whether or how to alter the alcohol policy, but on a more important issue—how to create
a better campus environment so that excessive drinking is less central to campus social life. Efforts by student leaders and
others over the past few years to tackle these concerns are commendable. But it’s going to take a greater commitment
from a broader spectrum of the campus to enact change. It’s going to take a commitment to lessen harmful behavior
that comes from too much drinking. Davidson can create a more positive social environment. Many of us on the faculty
would welcome your ideas and comments. Sally McMillen is an Associate Professor of History. The Davidsonian welcomes contributions from faculty
and staff.

Abuse of alcohol... alcohol monitors are the same. I needed the work because I needed the money, but I don’t
think that the new image it brought is worth [the money].” He is not the only monitor to complain about
a “new image.” Tene Moore and Chris Torres also say they have been viewed differently by the student body since
they became monitors. According to Tene, “They don’t look at you like you’re a student anymore. If I ask people
to move back from the stairs so that people can get down to the basement, some respond rudely.” Torres also
believes he receives verbal abuse simply because he has the red shirt on at parties. “A guy came up to
me, tapped me on the shoulder, pulled out a flask, said, ‘Look at this,’ and drank from it. All I
asked him to do was settle down, but what bothers me is that he did it just to try to
make me mad.” Most monitors think that the inconsistency between themselves is a problem. Why do they see their jobs
so differently? One reason is that they took their jobs for different reasons. Some do it for the money. According
to Lopez, “Some take it as a power trip and their duty to be a hero, I take it as
a job.” Others, like Edwards, do not care for the money. “I’m highly against the abuse of alcohol. Maybe I
can’t stop it completely, but I can minimize the damages to the campus physically and help stop people from hurting
other people in various ways. I see my job as a personal call to do something good for the college.”
A second reason they see their jobs so differently, according to Hinson, is that some of the monitors do not
have enough experience at parties. “Some of the alcohol monitors had never been out on the court before they put
the red shirt on. They don’t know how to interact with people.” Yet another reason for the inconsistency may be
the amount of training the monitors receive before going out to enforce the policy. According to Torres, “They give you
guidelines as to what you should do: write people up, see that nobody under 21 is drinking, and watch for
bottles, cans, or liquor. That’s all the training I got.” When Hinson read the guidelines, he thought, “Okay, I'll remember
the basic idea, and enforce that.” Therefore, not even the alcohol monitors are really sure what their job calls for.
Some monitors perform their job as they think it should be done. According to Torres, “Your sup- See "Monitors" on
page 4
