THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
WILL COBB - Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

A. WELLS BLACK - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Bone Marrow

Four years ago, several Davidson students initiated a volunteer drive for the National Bone Marrow Registry. Why? Because a close
friend had undergone a bone marrow transplant and lived as a result. Although their friend’s donor was his sister, the
students recognized the need to make bone marrow matches easier to find for those patients who do not find matches
within their families. The students found themselves in an overwhelming fundraising campaign so that they could pay for the $60
lab work fees necessary for each typing. Somehow, they miraculously raised $30,000 to type the 500 people who signed saying
they’d be typed.

Since their original drive, 1,100 people have been added to the Registry from Davidson, making the school the number one
college drive in the Carolinas, and possibly the entire country, according to the Charlotte Red Cross. On Wednesday, Davidson will
see its fourth volunteer drive. The Project Life Committee has raised $20,000 and hopes to type 300 people. Many upperclassmen
have been typed in past drives, so the call is primarily to freshmen. It’s simple and takes only a few
minutes. Just think about the situation when someone might call needing a transplant to live, with you being the only
one who could save the patient. Two Davidson students have been called to do just that because they volunteered at
Davidson’s drive. ~ Get typed.

Sports

With all the talk about soccer around Davidson, other sports many times seem to be forgotten. This year's football team
brings us back to reality. In the world of big-time college athletics, it would appear all but impossible to field
a team of which a school as small as Davidson could be proud. But this year's team certainly deserves such
credit. Congratulations are in order for a new coach, solid underclassmen, and a senior class whose dedication has brought them
21 wins, more than any other class in Davidson's football history. We may not be a "big-time" football school, but
their contribution has not gone unnoticed.

The same goes for the women's field hockey team. The Cats have dominated the Deep South Tournament for so long
that losing in the finals, let alone anywhere else in the tournament, would be an embarrassment. Again, congratulations. And these
two teams have produced stars. Senior Richard Howell has quarterbacked the Cats for almost all of his career and the
end results are immediately evident in the number of times his name will appear in the record book. Another Wildcat
in the spotlight is senior field hockey goalie Emily Coleman, who has placed her name among the nation's best this
season. Both have brought tremendous leadership and pride to their respective teams. However, as every sports star knows, these two
might not have accomplished so much without their teammates, coaches, and fans.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to:
The Davidsonian
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036.
Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.

The Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to
edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of
the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is
held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993 | 7

LETTERS

Zemp: Warner Hall is fine

To the editors,

On behalf of the women of Warner Hall, I would like to clarify the misconception concerning our financial difficulties this
year. It is true that Warner Hall went into the new semester with some added challenges. Due to our small
size, we realized that along with the benefits of a small house inducing a close sense of unity, we would
have to face some difficulties as well. Luckily, we knew what to expect. Driven by a strong dedication and love
for our house, the women of Warner Hall have pulled together in a common purpose.Through the combined efforts of all
our members, we have safely kept Warner Hall far from the danger of folding. Our success has been all the
more gratifying because, not only are we in good financial shape, but we have reaffirmed our ability to come together
when faced with hardship. We hope that The Davidsonian will cease to place Warner Hall in the shadow of financial
doom. It is unfair to the many members of Warner Hall who have made sure that Warner Hall will not
fold but will continue to be a thriving member of the court.

Sincerely,
Phyllis Zemp and all the women of Warner Hall

Ney says "nay" to nudity

To the editors,

Parents’ weekend at Davidson was a wonderfully educational experience for me, resolving questions of thirty years of confusion. As a
freshman at Davidson, I attended the “Statesville Artist Series.” This was the county fair peep show where scrawny, pitiful women
danced around naked (pronounced “necked”) in front of hormone-raged college males. Looking back on that I felt I was immature
to go and that such exploitation of sexuality was wrong. Now I realize that I was mature then and that
with age and reflection I have become immature. I realize they were not naked at all, it was just artistic
nudity. (But why did the college not issue us tickets to the series? May I now have a refund for
that ticket?)

I am most impressed that the male student body can look upon the recent nudity in Equus and not see
nakedness. With hormones in overdrive at this stage of life, if there were no measured male response below the belt,
then I would recommend drinking bottled water as the saltpeter content in Davidson’s water must be at near toxic levels.
But perhaps there is no response because we have been so numbed and anesthetized by the volume of sexually explicit
images that the frontiers of our imagination have been expanded beyond reasonable and acceptable bounds to a dark abyss where
Enlightenment is confused with the Light and darkness is presumed to be enlightenment. This abyss is a black hole which
oppresses us and compresses our spirit. Is this maturity you speak of in your audience, a maturity in immaturity and
immorality? The chronologically and spiritually mature people I discuss the play with have all had a drop-the-jaw response.

Is it reasonable in a school concerned with morals and littered with date-rape signs to perform the play with nudity?
Could not the characters have been more creatively clothed (no pun intended) and have the same...

See Ney on page 9

We need only one Union

To the Editors,

The name “Union” has a strong connotation of togetherness, of interaction, and of cooperation. The Union Board works hard to
make this connotation a reality, not simply in regard to the student community, but also the college community as a
whole: staff, faculty, and students. Students often end up being the primary focus of Union programming, but it would be
wonderful to have more staff and faculty involvement.

The MPC report stated that some of the things lacking on campus are a common meeting ground, a comfortable hangout
space, and a symbol of unity. They found that the places of student/faculty interaction are the Union Café, Chambers, and
the departments. The report concludes that “there is a need for natural points of intersection where all members of the
Davidson community can interact informally.” Yet they propose a primary center, to be used as a student crossroads, and a
secondary center, to be used as a community crossroads. My fear is that with two centers, one will become known
as the faculty/staff union and the other will be known as the student union.

The MPC report described one function of the Union as a place to run into people or a common meeting
place. Students will want to use the primary center so that they will run into other students. If we plan
only for one center, the interaction between students and faculty and staff will be natural, because everyone would be guaranteed
to be using the same center. When the college community uses the same building, we can then strengthen the aspects
of togetherness, interaction, and cooperation that we like to experience. Only then can the College Union be truly what the
name implies.

Sincerely,
Nathaniel May ‘95
Intimate Performances Committee Chairman
