THE DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Davidson, North Carolina

Quaint Shops Lining Main Street Tell of Davidson's Tradition.

Town continued from page 1

Old photos, the smell of shaving cream, and Mr. Norton’s welcoming smile immediately offer a feeling of nostalgia. Mr. Kenneth
Norton, the present owner of Norton’s Barber Shop, took over the business from his father, Hood Norton, who opened the
barber’s shop in 1913 along with his brother, Rutledge Norton. At that time the shop was located next to the
Soda Shop, but was moved to its present location in 1927. Mr. Norton remembers the days when there were many
little “mom and pop” stores along Main Street. “I’ve seen Davidson change from horse and buggy days to automobile days,”
he commented.

Mr. Norton noted that the busiest time he has ever seen was during World War II, when the college had
a large ROTC department, and 500 Army Air Cadets were stationed in Davidson. Twelve barbers were needed to keep up
with the demands for haircuts. When the men were ready for their shaves, Mr. Norton and the other barbers did
50 in one hour, as the men lined up and went on. Mr. Norton has planned to retire in June
of this year, but will continue to live in Davidson.

NUMBERS

Where’s the only place in town to grab a thick milkshake, a “Big O”, freshly made egg salad, or a
cream cheese and olive sandwich? The Soda Shop, of course. Located next to the post office, The Soda Shop is
a true Davidson landmark. First opened in 1951 as The M & M Soda Shop, the quaint restaurant with wooden
booths and a screen door has been serving college students and Davidson residents ever since.

“When Murray and Mary first opened the shop they would stand behind the counter all day, Murray making the sandwiches;
Mary making the ‘Big O’s’ and working the cash register. They wouldn’t take your order or anything. You had to
write it down on a little scrap of paper before they would serve you,” said Jay Wade ’79, whose wife,
Cary, took over operation of the shop in 1991. The Soda Shop has virtually remained the same except for the
addition of a larger kitchen, new night hours, and the addition of beer to the menu. Look at the walls
the next time you’re there grabbing a quick bite to eat. Old pictures of Davidson athletes in action, memorabilia, awards,
and pennants adorning the walls give The Soda Shop its obvious charm.

The Mecklenburg Gazette

*Population: 4,046
*Police Officers: 8
*Medical Facilities:
- Hospitals: 0
- Clinics: 1
- Doctors: 4
- Dentists: 3
*Unemployment Rate: 3%
*Property Tax: $0.20 to $100 of land value
*Fire Department: 20 volunteers
*Fire Equipment: 3 pumpers, 1 ladder
*Churches:
- Protestant: 12
- Catholic: 3
- Jewish: 9
- Other: 1

HISTORICAL FACTS

*1837: 9 buildings house the college and town. Postal Service begun under James Johnston, postmaster.
*1879: Officially incorporated by the state of North Carolina as the Town of Davidson College.
*1891: Name officially changed to the Town of Davidson after General William Lee Davidson, a local hero in the Revolutionary
War.

Information courtesy of Sarah Gayle, 1990 Census, and "Historic Downtown Davidson"

Photo by Casey Rogers

The view down Main Street is one of the many memories students will take with them as they leave.

While a small newspaper, The Mecklenburg Gazette has served Davidson/Cornelius since 1948. The first publications of the newspaper were only
four pages long, and featured articles only pertaining to the local area. The office is not large—yet the stack of
papers outside the white door reveals the busy work that goes on inside.Gazette now serves as a local liaison with
county governments and is read in Davidson, Cornelius, and Huntersville. Nearby, trinkets fill the walls of the Village Store. Owned
and operated by Irene and Taylor Blackwell, The Village Store serves as a great place for students and townspeople to
purchase everything from birthday to graduation gifts. While the store has been a part of Davidson’s history for the past
27 years, the building itself has been around much longer. Originally built in 1903, the structure first opened as a
Five and Dime store. The Village Store has always had a good relationship with the college as Mr. Blackwell has
worked in the Office of College Relations and now helps to keep students informed as owner of The Mecklenburg Gazette.
A few doors down, Ms. Joyce Patch and Ms. Barbara Freund manage Main Street Books. The bookstore, itself only six
years old, is located on its original hardwood floors and books line the original shelves. Of course, in 1903 the
shelves held clothing of “Archie Brown’s Dry Goods Store,” but they remain as a type of shelf that is not
made anymore. The owners of the bookstore will tell you that there is one spot on the floor that has
been recovered since 1903, and that is the place where the wood stove used to sit, which heated Archie Brown’s
store in the winter. Does our town have tradition? You could probably say that. Davidson's Main Street adds a dimension
to the college and town by preserving a setting not found in many places. It’s nice that some things remain
the same.

Jenkins Center Brings in Community
By Grey Timberlake

Many Davidson College students have visited the Ada Jenkins Center at least once during their Davidson careers for a community
dinner, service program, or other activity. However, very few college students realize that the building is not just a community
center, but also a historic site with meaning for Davidson’s African-American community. Located on Gamble Street in Davidson, the building
served as the school for Davidson’s black children before integration. Prior to the 1930s, Davidson’s black children attended a small,
poorly-equipped elementary school. After a fire which partially destroyed this school building, Ms. Ada Jenkins started the movement to build
a new school for black children in Davidson. Many members of Davidson’s African-American community helped in the effort, raising money
for the new school by selling hot dogs, hamburgers, ice cream, etc. Ms. Ada Jenkins sought to get financial assistance
and other resources from Davidson College and local businesses. Bricks from Davidson’s old Chambers building, which burned in 1921, were
used in the construction of the new school. Finally, in 1937, the result was the Ada Jenkins School. Despite segregation,
this much-improved facility opened many doors for African-Americans in Davidson. In the 1960s, gradual desegregation of area schools began. In
1966, the Ada Jenkins School closed as a result of integration. Afterwards, Davidson’s black elementary-aged children attended Davidson Elementary School.
The Charlotte Mecklenburg Board of Education still owns the school and rents it to the town of Davidson for $1
a year. Since the building was opened as a community center, financial difficulties due to the aging of the building
have been a primary concern to townspeople who want the building to be preserved. During last school year, Davidson College
students joined many members of the community in helping to paint and renovate the old building. Currently, Reverend Robert L.
Shirley serves as the Director of the Ada Jenkins Families and Careers Development Center. Leaders in Davidson’s African-American community help
to run various programs for people of all ages.

See Ada on page 7
