10 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993

Student Sees Soccer Enthusiasm As a Model For the Campus Attitude

Bumstead Continued from page 9

was here to be swept away by the magic you created. None of us will soon, if ever, forget the sound of a cannon-like thud, the look of fear in a hapless defender’s eyes, and the image of 1992’s top scorer running past the crowd, pumping his fist or holding his arms out to us as if to say “That was for you, Davidson.”

Nor will we forget that little blur of yellow that flew through the air in ways we thought only happened in the movies, and somehow kept the ball out of the goal. How many times did Alex Deegan and our great defensive corps make miraculous plays to keep our dreams alive. Ben Hayes’s headers. Iceman Sampers’s fifth round penalty kicks. Omli’s refusal to give an inch - no matter what. Spear’s ability to be everywhere. It all added up to the greatest athletic moment of our lives. You played out our greatest fantasies on the soccer field. Every week, you faced Goliath, you drilled him, and you took us with you. We will keep the memories of those days with us always. And, as trivial as it sounds, I think we could all stand to learn from what that brief period of pride and enthusiasm had to teach us. I hope that perhaps in the coming semester, when we start to get down and frustrated, and when it

"None of us will soon, if ever, forget ... the image of 1992's top scorer running past the crowd, pumping his fists or holding his arms out as if to say, 'That was for you, Davidson.'"

seems that in order to be a young, concerned adult we have to take an unflinching stand on everything, fighting bitterly to the end at all costs so that our voice is heard, ... we can stop. And remember what it was then, and is now, to LIVE. Remember how lucky we are to be here, young or old, together. Remember how easy it can be to relax and enjoy each other’s company. We don’t have to drop our concerns or care about them any less, but we also don’t have to get so bogged down in work or causes and crusades that we forget to sit back and think about how good it really is to be here - today. It certainly wouldn’t be easy, but it’s worth considering. I for one made some friends in those weeks that I might never have made had we not stopped, cut through the surface, and realized that we are all in this together - that at the core we all have a lot around which to unite. Maybe I’m alone on this, and maybe I’m making it all up in my head as I romanticize the past. But maybe I’m not. Maybe the soccer team showed us a real light in a place we never would have thought to look. Thanks, guys. You did us proud.

Fear of Interracial Dating is Sometimes Understandable, Sometimes Not

B&W Continued from page 9

this college comes to that is watching old “Jeffersons” reruns. There is also probably some sort of fear of the unknown involved with interracial dating. People are more comfortable with what’s familiar, physically as well as culturally. And many people just aren’t used to it. They don’t consider people of other races because, well, it just never crosses their minds. Try this little self-test: what would your friends or family think if you said, speaking of someone of another race, “that guy/girl is hot”? What would you think of someone who said that? Davidson should try to increase the number of African-American applicants. A Phi A will hopefully help. Students should get involved more in groups like SERCH (it only meets once every few weeks for an hour; you can

"There is also probably some sort of fear of the unknown in interracial dating."

take time out of your beer-guzzling to go). The BSC and A Phi A need to continue to reach out to White students, and White students need to pay attention when they do. And students need to discuss racial issues more. It doesn’t help to complain to your roommate; Blacks and Whites need to talk to each other. It’s not hard, once you get over the initial apprehension. That’s why we write this damn article, to show that it can be done. Lastly, we need to try to rid ourselves of the impression that mixed-race dating can’t be done. If you like someone of another race, or even if you just ogle their bod, don’t let their race hold you back.

The World's Mistakes Should Serve to Teach Togetherness tothe United States

Kirbster

Continued from page 9

stantly fighting to gain ground over the other ethnic groups in a particular country at the entire population’s expense. Sounds a lot like the warring factions in Somalia, too, doesn’t it? These are all examples of a lack of national unity, a quality vital to the survival and stability of a nation. Sooner or perhaps too much later, we are going to have to realize that if we are going to avoid the monolithic crises that are affecting us, we are going to have to accept the notion that we must play by the rules and work together as a team, or we will all lose. Sometimes we may have to make the painful decision to forego individual gain for the good of our neighbors and the welfare of our nation. Perhaps we could all learn from Rockdale County (Ga.) High School’s basketball coach Cleveland Stroud, who gave up his team’s 1987 state title on a technicality and then said, “You’ve got to do what’s honest and right. People forget the scores of basketball games; they don’t ever forget what you’re made of.” Ain’t that the truth.

We Aren't Apathetic
By John Rogers

Two recent letters to the editors and a Davidsonian editorial chastised students for their apathy. Specifically, these articles cited the failure of students to attend a Congressional candidate forum and a meeting with the Board of Trustees. The editorial criticized the lack of student response to a newspaper inquiry about Spike Lee. Davidson students have many demands on their time. That most of us have chosen to devote our time and energy to academics, athletics, and clubs does not mean that we are indifferent to politics, culture, school business, and other issues that affect our lives. Between swimming and schoolwork, I have found little time to attend lectures and events that I would have liked to experience. Davidson students may be busy, but not apathetic.

Oh Boy, Sean Is an Old Man
Sean

Continued from page 8

look like a silly Caucasian Fu Manchu. There you have it - my ideals dashed to pieces. Saddest of all, I find myself reminiscing about “when I was a kid...” Remember the good ol’ days? Phone calls were a dime. Candy bars were a quarter. McDonald’s had only sold 30 million. Children got punished for not eating their peas or coming home from play late, not manslaughter, drug trafficking, and rape. Youngsters on the court could get as many beers as they wanted. Like I said, I’m old. Sometimes I drink coffee. When I was four, only old people drank coffee. Now, I realize, those who wish to stay awake do. I have three gray hairs. The other day I caught myself making that arthritic “Uhhh” sound as I sat down. Soon I expect to be gumming my bread and talking about my bowels. So if you see me shuffling around, be kind. Respect your elders.

Bush's Last Dirty Trick
Alex

Continued from page 8

in South America, fighters to whom Congress had voted specifically not to give aid. That is worse than breaking into a building, at least on my governmental crimes scale. Second, the fact that Bush pardoned these men so close to their trial can only lead me to suspect that he feared information brought out in the trials would lead to his own indictment. This accusation, of course, is unproven, but is it not unlikely that Bush, the ex-director of the CIA, knew about the arms deals. Maybe, one day, we will know. What about Reagan? The American public felt so comfortable under his grandfatherly wing that they let him get away with saying, “I don’t remember.” What was Nixon’s crime? That he didn’t lie enough? The fact is, both Reagan and Bush got away narrowly from being dragged into the aftermath of some highly illegal dealings which originated in the White House. Even the men whom we know are guilty got away with the crime. So why is it worse than Watergate? After all, no Presidents resigned, no tapes were found, no one lost his cool, and Bush downplayed the pardons like a pro on Christmas Eve. It is worse because in America, a country founded on the principles of governmental checks and rule of law, some people are, in fact, above the law. They got away with it, and we let them. That is the worst crime of all.