THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993 | 3

SPE

Continued from page 1

which endangers the health and safety of others are prohibited.” The students can either plead guilty to the charges and
have the Judiciary Committee deal with the penalty, or may appeal the charges through the Judiciary Committee or the Honor
Council.

Terry emphasized that the students responsible for the incident will not be punished en masse, but “will be dealt with
on an individual basis.”

Urbino is not being charged with any violation.

On Monday, the Dean of Students Office distributed “Pledge/New Member Activity Guidelines” to every freshman. Rule No. 11 on the
list states that, “No pledge/new member activity may involve hazing of any sort. These prohibited activities include, but are not
limited to, physical danger, alcohol and drugs, public nudity, and mental anguish.”

The Dean’s review committee, which will investigate the incident, is comprised of two students, Patterson Court Council President Julie Petty
and KA President Rod Carter; Assistant Dean of Students John Eaves; and a Faculty Representative, Alex Pinkston. Holmes will help
coordinate and facilitate communication between the chapter, the national and the committee.

According to Holmes, the Committee will attempt to determine whether the event was a chapter-sponsored activity, or whether the action
was undertaken purely by individuals.

Upon completion of its investigation, the Committee will submit its findings and recommendations to Terry and College President John Kuykendall.

Holmes said that one thing in SPE’s favor has been the very helpful response of the National Organization to the
incident. The more the national helps to resolve the incident with the chapter internally, the more lenient the college is
expected to be.

“We are doing everything we can to work with our national office and the school,” SPE President Scott Newnam said.

The College has received a good deal of negative coverage in the local media over the incident. Reports on Charlotte’s
Channel 9 and in the Charlotte Observer have given the “hazing” incident high profile.

Chapter 14, Article 9 of North Carolina State Law defines hazing as “to annoy any student by playing abusive or
ridiculous tricks upon him, to frighten, scold, beat or harass him, or to subject him to personal indignity.”

Holmes said, “I don’t think these guys did anything overtly malicious.”

Urbino said, “I don’t have any bad feelings; I’m not bitter.”

“It’s just a game that got out of hand, accidentally out of hand. It’s not as if that group of
guys got together and said ‘Let’s hurt this guy’... Those guys that were doing this to me are my friends,
and in the future will continue to be my friends... I think that what the newspaper and TV were looking
for was to fill up some time.”

“I think we needed to learn the lesson... I believe we have learned a lesson.”

Student Health

Options and Concerns Starts Phone Hotline

By Davidsonian Staff Reports

Last Friday, the Student Health Options and Concerns committee (SHOC), with the help of the Health Services Center, started a
student-manned phone line to serve the students of Davidson College. The purpose of the phone line is to serve as
a health reference for students who have questions about health issues or need referral for health-related services. The phone line
will also operate as a counseling service for students who need to talk during the late evening hours of the
weekend.

Although the phone line is student-manned, all calls are strictly confidential and can be placed completely anonymously.

The phone line number is x2902 and the hours are:

Friday and Saturday, 9 pm - 1 am

Sunday, 9 pm - 12 am

If you are interested in joining SHOC or would like to help with the phone line, call x6552.

SALE

Quality & Fashion Apparel for Men and Women

John Mack & Son

128 N. Main St. Downtown Mooresville
phone: 664-4711 or 663-3701

Valentine's

Teleflora
Make a lasting impression.
Invitations » Candelabra Rental » All

World-Wide Delivery

Fresh & Silk Bouquets

Also: Referral Service » Wedding Consultation & Directing » Wedding Accessories » Cake Tops » Photo Albums

Call for Special Occasions,

Florist & Wedding Specialists —

892-9129

Town Square, Cornelius, N.C.

OUTDOORS Is Happening.
COME SEE THE CHANGES!

OUTDOORS

Remaining Winter Clothing
15 to 20% off

Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.

Awesome Spring Breaks!

Bahamas Cruise $279, Panama City (Kitchens) $149, Cancun $459, Jamaica $479! 1-800-678-6386

GREEKS & CLUBS

$1,000 AN HOUR!

Each member of your frat, sorority, team, club, etc. pitches in just one hour and your group can raise $1,000
in just a few days!

Plus a chance to earn $1,000 for yourself!

No cost. No obligation.
1-800-932-0528, ext. 65

Thursday:
Mug Nite $1.50

Shooter Specials

Asheville

Billy and Eric (The Magpies)

Take off with Rainbow Deli, your home base for Fresh Fish and Steaks.
Lunch, Dinner and drink specials daily. Weekend live entertainment.

10% OFF

ENTIRE TICKET (excluding alcohol)

DINE IN ONLY - FOUR CONVENIENT LOCATIONS - Daily Drink Specials

Lake Norman
8301 Magnolia Estates Dr.

Cornelius, NC
(704) 896-0091

Live Entertainment

Charlotte
Arboretum Shopping Center
and Town Center Plaza

Friday & Saturday:

10% at Biltmore Estates
