e 10 | THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

Unfortunately, several people have misunderstood a piece I wrote a few weeks back. But, that is to be expected. Not
everyone is going to see where I’m coming from or what I’m getting at, and that’s okay. People are going
to see what they want, that is the curse of subjectivity. However, to leave the tune on the present note
would leave the reader who has been keeping up with all of this an impression that I see as misleading.

First, if anyone who read my opinion was hurt, that was not my intention. If you’ve got clinical depression or
other problems and you’re taking Prozac, or any other drug, to help you get through, I wish you the best
of luck. I wasn’t criticizing you, and I hope you do whatever it takes to get on with life. That
is the nature of survival.

Second, the letters which followed my column made it look like the issue was a question of the “informed” versus
the “uninformed.” This is very misleading. For too long, lay persons have surrendered their opinions to almighty experts who, sadly,
are merely lay persons of another sort. I wish to impress upon the reader that my opinion is not uneducated
or less valid than those of the people who have written in to the editor just because my opinion is
in the minority. There are many doctors who agree with me.

My column wasn’t about “door deals” or Prozac. My column was about a trend. There is a trend of trying
to get something for nothing. It treats symptoms instead of problems with the pseudo-logic that if there are no symptoms
there are no problems. It is childish in nature, like children who make frightening things go away by closing their
eyes. There is a trend of trying to escape from life, often by chemical means.

I don’t think that it is a coincidence that since the dawn of Prozac and other contemporary psychiatric pills more
and more people are getting depressed. From USA Today, Wednesday, April 14, 1993: “The suicide rate among adolescents climbed in
37 of the 50 states in the last decade, and a report by Northwestern National Life Insurance Co. hints that
the numbers might go even higher. From 1980 to 1989, teen suicides increased by 18 percent, and the insurance company
found that 86 percent of its adolescent cases in ‘91 and ‘92 included treatment for suicidal tendencies or attempts.”

Why are these numbers going up? This is a national problem. According to Perot’s United We Stand, we are 5%
of the global population but consume 50% of its drugs. Why are the constituents of perhaps the wealthiest nation the
most eager people to get away from themselves? Why should we of all people need to escape so badly?

Not surprisingly, there are similar statistics involving Prozac. According to Time magazine, October 11, 1993, “In the U.S. an estimated
900,000 to 950,000 prescriptions are filled each month” (my italics). And one more quote, same source: “Since its introduction five
years ago, 5 million Americans — and 10 million worldwide — have used [Prozac].” Why do we consume 50% of
the world’s Prozac? Why are we so depressed?

Just to back up my point that we are indeed so depressed, I proffer the following quote. Again, from USA
Today, Thursday, April 15, 1993: “One in 8 Americans suffers major depression at some point in a lifetime, and about
11 million Americans are depressed in any given year.”

Not only is this a national problem, but a Davidson problem. Prozac isn’t the only drug that can be abused.
National Alcohol Awareness week recently expired, but I think Davidson students are all too aware of alcohol. There is a
ritual of slaving during the week and doing one’s best to forget it all on the court. “Steve,” they’ll say,
“we work so hard, and need some kind of a break, a way to let go.” I counter this with
the fact that when you’re doing what you love, your work becomes play, a break in and of itself.

I have been presented with arguments ranging from insensitivity on my part to the cost-effectiveness of drugs versus analysis. The
entire issue is touchy, scary, and I refuse to defer to “experts.” Yet, during a freshman humanities lecture, Dr. Mele
presented the hypothetical construct that there was no reality as such, but rather that we were brains in vats, and
we were being fed our perception of reality through a computer. Some students shrugged this off and went back to
sleep, but others were disturbed. It mattered to them that their lives were real, not illusions. Likewise, there is a
very real difference between counseling through a problem (even though expensive), and quicker, chemical treatment. It matters.

I’ll conclude by revealing the reality of this trend, as it relates to Prozac. In the mentioned issue of Time,
a Prozac patient and writer, Elizabeth Wurtzel, finds herself missing the person she used to be. She has struggled with
severe depression since age 11. She says, “Now I go to parties and everyone says, ‘I’m on Prozac too.’ You
can just walk into a doctor’s office and say, ‘I think I’m depressed,’ and he writes you a Prozac prescription...
If they feel bad, they should figure out what’s wrong with them.”

Topay WELL Discuss THE Two BRITISH En-YAROLPS Se KILLED Homeless need opportunities, not shopping carts Sleepingcontinued from page 10

shopping cart would be less motivated to change his situation. These placebo solutions cannot continue. The only way to solve
the problem is to motivate those who are homeless to become productive members of society. Their lives must be cleaned
up and they must be taught to take advantage of opportunity. In addition, the large percentage who are mentally ill
or addicted to one substance or another must be helped.

A more intelligent argument for helping the homeless is presented by Peter Singer in his essay “Rich and Poor.” His
thesis is that we are obligated to prevent what is bad from happening when the action does not cause us
to lose anything of comparable moral value. He illustrates this by describing the scenario of a small child drowning in
a shallow pond. Saving the child would cause us to lose nothing more than a clean pair of pants and
dry shoes; therefore, we are obligated to act to save the child.

Singer’s argument makes perfect sense in that scenario, but it is the wrong example to use when speaking of aiding
the homeless. By comparing a homeless person to a drowning child who is unable to do anything about his situation,
the homeless person is stripped of the ability to assert himself. It is this very ability that must be recognized
if the plight of the homeless is to be improved. Giving them shopping carts and a Constitutional right to beg
are incentives to remain homeless—there must be incentives to get jobs and enter society.

The reason for pointing out the ills of a great deal of homelessness advocacy is to stress the fact that
the Inverse Committee is free from them. They run a solid and upstanding program that does true good for shelters
such as the Uptown Men’s and the Salvation Army Women’s and Children’s Shelter. They do not promote placebo solutions, but
help the homeless obtain skills needed to function fruitfully in American society.

Whether you sleep outside or not is a personal choice; I do not feel it is a necessary part of
helping the homeless. They need more than compassion—they need people who can teach and motivate. Do not stop at the
sleep-out, but act on the compassion you have. I must thank Kim Kreiling, the coordinator of the Inverse Committee, for
her help in writing this article. And I hope some of you will join her one Sunday in teaching a
homeless man to read.

Hal Dougherty

I live with an alcoholic

The nineties is the era of twelve steps. Support groups following a common format are sprouting up all across the
U.S.: Alcoholics Anonymous, Gamblers Anonymous, Over-eaters Anonymous, Al-Anon, Ala-teen, Ala-tot, and Adult Children of Alcoholics. So far, knock on wood,
the latter group, ACOA, is all I need in my life.

My father is an alcoholic. I am his son which makes me an Adult Child of an Alcoholic. That does
not mean I am an Alcoholic. I simply grew up in a family weeded with dysfunction. The neighborhood thought my
family to be perfect or “normal.” We had a white picket fence, two and a half car garage, the best
private schools, we “summered” in Martha’s Vineyard, and wore clothes from Talbots and J. Crew. I was invited to every
party and I was liked by everyone at school.

So where is the dysfunction? Nobody needs to know my life history but they should know the effects of growing
up in an alcoholic family. Here are some characteristics of an ACOA or somebody who has survived a similar environment.
ACOAs over-react to changes over which they have no control, seek tension and crisis and then complain about the results,
guess at what normal is, and judge themselves without mercy. They have difficulty with intimate relationships, take themselves very seriously,
are super responsible or super irresponsible, and are impulsive. Often they feel different from other people, fear rejection and abandonment
yet reject others, and constantly seek approval and affirmation.

If you identify with any of the above traits and are interested in a mellow support group for adult children
who grew up or are still involved in an alcoholic/dysfunctional family, please call Hal at -6032, PO #2890 or Dr.
Crosby (Counseling Center) at -2451. This group and all contact will be extremely confidential.

Students slumber on Chambers lawn

continued from page 8

giving great effort to no avail. Still, we should be able to find empathy for those no longer capable of
doing or willing to do work. How easy is it to type a long paper for a professor who is
almost certain to fail you? The homeless have generally found failure and/or exclusion at every corner.

Consider the difficulty of such circumstances to find impetus for continued attempts. As for the Davidson community, which includes people
from enormously different backgrounds, we can’t allow ourselves to grow so accustomed to our comforts, regardless of how we’ve reached
them, that we are amputated from the parts of society which are discomforting.

The sleep-out hopefully reminded you of what you’ve accomplished, exposed you to those less fortunate, re-acquainted you with the simple
lifestyle, and inspired you to aid a segment of society which our advanced technology tends to leave out.

"Images of Women in Art and Advertising," a lecture by Dr. Nina Serebrennikov, Tuesday, October 26, at 7:30 p.m. in
the lecture hall of the VAC. Sponsored by the Committee for Women's Issues.
