SPORTS MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993 11

Men's Tennis Splits Southern Conference Matches
By Brannon Buck

The Davidson Men’s tennis team played two Southern Conference matches this weekend, losing to Furman on Friday but defeating Western
Carolina on Saturday. Coach Frank was pleased with the team’s effort and concentration despite the loss. And the players now
know more about where they stand in relation to the top teams in the conference.

Albie Varoski stood out both days, winning the team’s only match against Furman and playing solidly in a victory over
Western Carolina. Davidson lost 6-1 to Furman but rebounded to defeat Western by the same score. There were several close
matches both days. The rest of the team dropped tight matches to Furman, but the loss was definitely not devastating.
Coach Frank stressed to his players that they now know exactly what they must do to prepare for the conference
tournament. He said the first step would be to come back and play a strong match the next day. And
that is exactly what they did by only losing one match to a good team from Western Carolina.

Varoski defeated Colin Delany from Furman in three sets 2-6, 6-1, 6-2, and then won another tight match against James
Gasparini of Western Carolina 6-3, 7-6 (10-8).

These two wins seem to have pulled Varoski out of a mild slump and improved his conference standing which will
determine important seedings at the tournament which begins April 23 at Davidson. Holt Vaughan, David Jespersen, Dan Grinnan, and Dave
Tonidandel also won singles matches on Saturday. The doubles play was strong as well with Russell Briggs and Ryan Harper
winning at number 1, and the other two teams following their lead.

Davidson has several days off until they face U.T.-Chattanooga next Friday at 2:00 in another conference match. Captains Varoski and
Tonidandel emphasized that the team, which now has a record of 12-4, should win its remaining matches and be in
a good position to vie for the conference championship.

Virginia Trip Disappoints Women's Lacrosse Team
By Mandy Curtis

This past weekend of the third and fourth of April, the women’s lacrosse team traveled to Virginia to play Randolph-Macon
College where they were defeated by a score of 15-14. With only 36 seconds left in the game, the opposing
team scored the final goal that decided the game. Having been up 6-0 in the first 10 minutes of the
game and 10-6 at the half, the ‘Cats lost their lead in the second half.

According to offensive star Megan Snyder, the team was upset by many of the officials’ “questionable” calls. She explained that
in the second half of the game the officials took one of the Davidson players out of the game and
into a penalty box for wearing a watch. However, there is no such thing as a penalty box in lacrosse.
In the time that the Davidson player was out of the game, leaving the ‘Cats numerically disadvantaged, Randolph-Macon managed to
score.

Despite the loss, Snyder said the Wildcats “played really well as a team.” Instead of having a few “superstars” who
scored all of the goals as Randolph-Macon had, Davidson showed strength as a unit, explained Snyder, “We passed really well...
We left knowing that we played better as a team.”

Another disappointment for the women’s lacrosse team was the cancellation of Sunday’s game in Harrisonburg against James Madison University. Hoping
to schedule a game against another team in the area, they were not successful and arrived home early on Saturday
night in time for the KA barn dance.

This Tuesday, April 6, the Wildcats will travel to play Greensboro College for the second time of the season. The
‘Cats previously defeated this team by a score of 18-1 last Tuesday and hope to do as well this week.
The ‘Cats will be hosting a lacrosse tournament on the weekend of the 17th and 18th. They will be playing
5 games which will be their last home games of the season.

Women's Lacrosse Wins First Home Game
Photo by Laura Dennis

On Tuesday, March 30, Davidson women’s lacrosse won their first game ever by defeating Greensboro College. Later in the week,
the ‘Cats traveled to Greensboro to face Guilford. The ‘Cats won for the second time by the score of 12-8
and Davidson was led...by Megan Snyder’s six goals. Davidson will host the Davidson Lacrosse Tournament on April 17 and 18.

Freshmen, Seniors Dominate IMAC Season

Skearies forced freshman 4th Watts into a grueling two-game championship. However, 4th Watts capitalized on Skeary John Hudson’s unfortunate injury.
The five-on-four match-up which ensued led to the 4th Watts victory. Freshmen also dominated the Upper B-League. Green Eggs and
Grits, the athletic dynamos from 2nd West Belk, clinched the game against Gettin’ Stoopid with a power drive by Chris
Shields for a 47-45 win. The Women’s League finished with a tough match between the well-practiced Fab Seniors (Stacked) and
the mighty Lee’s Team (a.k.a. the Big-Mamas); experience won 40-28.

By Carla Davis

Intramural basketball came to a close this week as the four divisions claimed their victories. The upset of the season
came when the undefeated All Stars (BSC) were stomped by Hi-C & No-D (KA) in the first game of the
championship series. Their strong comeback efforts in the second game, led by Chuck Brooks and Cedric West, were not enough
to beat the powerful KA combo of Matt Woodlief and Bill Webb. Coming off the bench, Andy Schwab and John
Sampers gave the performances of their basketball careers.

In the Lower B-League:
Tonidandel 5-7, 6-2, 6-2.
Varoski-Chris Parker 8-3.
Walker 6-0, 6-4.
Flader 8-1.

Furman 6, Davidson 1
Singles:
Albie Varoski (D) d. Colin Delany 2-6, 6-1, 6-2;
Ashley Gaines (F) d. Holt Vaughan 6-2, 6-3;
Chris Henderson (F) d. Russell Briggs 6-3, 6-3;
Chris Muller (F) d. David Jespersen 6-2, 1-6, 6-3;
Brian Rudisell (F) d. Dan Grinnan 7-5, 6-1;
Andy Case (F) d. Dave.

Doubles:
Gaines-Clinton Glasscock (F) d. Briggs-Ryan Harper 8-3;
Henderson-Delany (F) d. Jespersen-Vaughan 8-5;
Rudisell-Case (F).

Davidson 6, Western Carolina 1
Singles:
Varoski (D) d. James Gasparini 6-3, 7-6 (10-8);
Vaughan (D) d. Andrew Randle 7-6 (7-2), 4-6, 6-1;
Neoclis Neocleous (WC) d. Briggs 7-6 (10-8), 3-6, 6-4;
Jespersen (D) d. Adam Flader 6-2, 2-6, 6-1;
Grinnan (D) d. Terry Coles 6-0, 6-1;
Tonidandel (D) d. Shane.

Doubles:
Briggs-Harper (D) d. Gasparini-Coles 8-4;
Vaughan-Jespersen (D) d. Randle-Neocleous 8-5;
Varoski-Parker (D) d. Walker.

Women's Tennis Comes Down After Amazing Start
By Robert Lloyd-Still

The Davidson women’s tennis team began Southern Conference play in perfect fashion. With victories over Georgia Southern, App. St., and
UT-Chattanooga, the ‘Cats appeared to have a legitimate shot at a perfect conference season. However, things changed quickly when the
‘Cats faced Furman, losing 9-0. On Saturday, the ‘Cats rebounded from this loss with a 9-0 pouncing of Western Carolina.
Davidson played hard against Furman, but the Paladins were simply too tough. The Paladins are defending champions in the Southern
Conference and they are one of the South’s foremost teams. Presently, they have a one-game lead on Davidson. After struggling
with Furman, the ‘Cats played exceptionally well against WCU with great performances out of Nicole Wilcox, Cynthia Hess, and Jennifer
Beahm. Davidson’s record now stands at 6-1 in the conference and 10-3 overall.

Earlier in the week, the ‘Cats defeated Appalachian St. by a 9-0 score. In the three matches previous to Furman,
Jennifer Beahm and Nicole Wilcox were on an unbelievable streak. They both managed to win all three of their singles
matches and when they teamed up at doubles they swept three victories there as well. Freshman Sarah Heer has also
helped the ‘Cats of late. At the number four spot, she has managed a 5-1 mark in the conference and
10-1 for the season.

Davidson only has two more matches before the Southern Conference Championships on April 16 and 17. On April 6, the
‘Cats will be at home to face Winthrop and they travel to Raleigh on April 13 to face N.C. State.

Southern Conference Baseball Standings
Through April 2, 1992

Conference | All Games
W L | W L
Western Carolina 10 2 | 15 12
Georgia Southern 8 3 | 20 10
The Citadel 6 4 | 16 14
East Tennessee St. 6 4 | 9 8
Marshall 5 6 | 6 10
Appalachian St. 3 5 | 5 13
DAVIDSON 3 5 | 7 15
Furman 3 8 | 8 13
VMI 0 9 | 9 14

If you were writing for Sports, this space might be filled with a story. Instead, you just get this box.
Write for Sports. Call Robert, -6645.
