ws. ‘a He 4 a3 td ‘a

THE DAVIDPHONIAN!

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993

LEPRACHAUN JOHNSON - Editor in Chief
PENCIL DICK - Executive Editor
JANE ACTIVIST - Managing Editor

EMM NAD MICHEL HUNT - News Editor
PETER GOZINYA - Opinions Editor
JOSEPHINE GARCIA - Arts Editor
SIPPER FLIPPER - Sports Editor
CHUCK E. CHEESE - Photography Editor
MARIA CORLEONE - Special Section Editor
CANDY MAY - Copy Editor
ART FREAK - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
Nothing"

TRACEY HARDWICK - Cut and Paste Girl
AMI GAY - Advertising Manager
GOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
COCKY LITTLE PUNK - Circulation Manager

Editorial? We Don't Need No
Stinkin’ Editorial.

This editorial is aimed at two audiences: the piss poor Charlotte area
media and the whining little people whose sense of humor is as long as their
Johnsons. This lampoon, probably the best lampoon to ever cover this puny,
rarely noticed, often avoided, often forgotten campus, is not intended for your
viewing. So if you see anything that you find offensive in these pages and feel
it is your duty to correct it, Fuck Off.

Puree lighting... and less offensive note... we really don’t mean to hurt anyone. We just
want all of you to know that the trials and travails of your life are about as significant to us
as Bill Clinton’s amazing knowledge of the history of the White House and off-track betting
in the Himalayas.

This opinion is derived from our perception that none of you really give
a flying farthing whether this paper comes out or not, and its only purpose is
to entertain you in the toilet and keep your mind off the incredibly raunchy
smell and tiny plopping noises coming from the stall next to yours.

About the only truly important thing in this little bundle of humor is the
Special Section, “Sex Life at Davidson.” No doubt this is a topic that has been
too often avoided by us, the media, and we wanted to get as deeply into this
subject as manly possible. We have researched this subject whenever
possible throughout the year (which explains its incompleteness) and feel that
if it doesn’t get you off, we’ve been doing something wrong.

But, back to the topic in our hand, we are not here to make you angry, just
to remind us all that, from one angle, we are all very funny looking people.
Besides, finals are coming, and we are so sick of putting out real papers that
we think we might just quit, and then where would you be?

You’d have no source for interesting and lively news. You’d be without
an Opinions Section covering every campus issue from diversity to diversity.
There’d be no exciting poems to fill your day with joy. Nobody would know
how the women’s lacrosse team was doing. And most of all, you’d be without
all of those exciting space fillers reminding you to recycle and write for news.
So enjoy this Davidphonian as if it was your last, because if you are a senior,
it is.

The Davidphonian is published at the editors' leisure by so-called students of Davidson
College. Please promptly flush all letters down the toilet because we simply don't care
what you have to say. Our phone number is also of no use to you cause we never answer
it. Our offices are located somewhere in the bowels of the Union and basically are the two
ugliest rooms on campus. We do not accept letters longer than 300 words, which is, of
course, a moot point, because we do not accept them at all. Opinions expressed in these
letters we don't accept probably reflect the opinion of someone on the Editorial board,
and if they are racist in nature most certainly reflect the opinions of the Trustees of
Davidson College. They, however, wish to point out they had nothing to do with this.

IDIOTS!

An Idiot Writes In!

Dear Davidphonian,

I was shocked to read
the letter from the school
arborist a few issues ago.
What is this school thinking
about to have an arborist on
campus? What about us pro-
lifers? I’m shocked that
Davidson has the nerve to
keep an arborist on the pay-
roll, and nobody even took a
vote on it. I didn’t under-
stand what the connection
was between abortions and
trees, but I call forth all pro-
lifers to join forces and stand
under the trees of Davidson.
Anything we can do to ham-
per those bloodthirsty ar-
borists should be done. That
arborist just better hope that
he doesn’t meet up with an
avid supporter of the NRA,
if you know what I mean.

Sincerely,

Miss Anne L. Re-
tentive

Harding Calls the Cops Idiots!

To the Editors,

As a police officer for
the Davidson College Po-
lice Department I wanted to
write to you to let you know
that the people are here for
you and yours all the days of
our lives which is why we
came to work here at this
school called Davidson Col-
lege which is a very nice
school though not necessar-
ily a perfectly safe school so
that is why we are here but
we need to talk about the
people who have been tak-
ing bikes because we want
them to stop and we want
them to stop and that is why
I am writing to talk about
people stealing bikes so don't
forget to lock them up in
your room or wherever but
not in your hall because the
RLO will take it and you
will get in trouble with them
and it is our job to keep you
from getting in trouble so
thanks for not doing that
because we do not want to
get in trouble so lock up your
bike so it doesn't get stolen.

Truly,
Off. Dave Harding
N.C. Officer o' the Year
DCPD

Helms, Duke Think Ambroise Is an Idiot!

To the Editors,

We have but one thing to say in response to the article written by Marilyn Ambroise,
"Bitter much?"

Sincerely,
Sen. Jesse Helms
David Duke

Only Three Idiots Wrote This Week!

To the Editors,

Sincerely,
Nobody