16 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

Playing chess threatens to become a Davidson tradition

By Davidsonian sports staff writers

The chess club, one of Davidson’s newest organizations, has already made a name for itself in the North Carolina Chess
Association and is vying for national recognition. The organization received its charter at the end of the last school year
and recently received funding from Davidson officials.

President and founder John Ballard, no stranger to the game of chess, ranked 31st in the nation for all high
school chess players. He has competed in chess tournaments for almost six years and placed third in the 1993 North
Carolina Junior Invitational. The chess club’s other driving force is vice-president Doitch Kraser. Kraser, best known around campus as the
Domino’s delivery man with the “bumper-stickered” car, recently turned the heads of North Carolina chess players when he won the
1993 North Carolina Class D Championship. With a 4-1 record, Doitch did not lose until the final round and after
four rounds was guaranteed state co-championship. Kraser topped this achievement two weeks later on October 1-3, when he placed fifth
overall in the Class D section of the United States Class Championships, falling just short of second place and its
$250 prize money.

While Ballard and Kraser’s accomplishments received attention across the state of North Carolina, the club itself is still relatively unknown
on campus. The club was founded so that Davidson students who like to play the game of chess have the
opportunity. A common misconception on campus is that students feel they are not very good and would not “fit in,”
according to Ballard. The club meets on Thursday nights at 9:30 in the Union Conference room. Another goal of the
chess club charter is to be able to hold tournaments at Davidson and compete against other colleges.

On November 13, the chess club will host the 1st Annual Davidson College Chess Championship. The tournament will be from
10 a.m. to 8 p.m. in the Union conference room and will only be open to Davidson students and faculty.
There is no entry fee, and prizes will be plaques for the top four overall individuals and for the top
faculty member. The top four students in this championship will be eligible to represent Davidson in the 1993 Pan American
Intercollegiate Chess Championships in Deland, Florida at the end of December.

Photo by Casey Rogers
Kraser & Ballard challenge themselves and the clock.

Football
SAT OCT 30 HAMPDEN-SYDNEY

Men’s Soccer
WED OCT 27 APP. STATE
FRI OCT 29 at Winthrop
SUN OCT 31 MARSHALL

Women’s Soccer
SAT OCT 30 VIRGINIA TECH

Men’s/Women’s Cross Country
SAT OCT 30 SC Championships

Volleyball
TUE OCT 26 RADFORD
THU OCT 28 FURMAN
FRI OCT 29 WESTERN CAROLINA

Field Hockey
FRI OCT 29 VIRGINIA TECH

Home teams in caps

THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR PARALEGAL TRAINING

Program graduates

GRADUATING SENIORS
Put your education to work - become a LAWYER'S ASSISTANT

The National Center for Paralegal Training
* American Bar Association Approved
* 3 Month Day or 7 Month Evening Program
* Employment Assistance - over 1,200 employers in 39 states have NCPT

Thursday, October 28, 1993
9:00 am—4:00 pm
Julia Johnston House

The National Center for Paralegal Training
3414 Peachtree Road, Suite 528, Atlanta, GA 30326
(800) 275-7842 * (404) 266-1060

New baseball system will defy game's past

Nips continued from page 14

stayed home under the old system. It was great—the baseball playoff format was unique to America’s game and it created
longstanding rivalries and exciting pennant races. Now, a team won’t even necessarily have to win their division to go to
the playoffs, and there’ll be three division winners instead of two. Baseball’s owners have decided that second best is suddenly
good enough. If the new system were in place in ‘93, the Braves-Giants pennant race would never have happened, some
pretty weak teams would have made the playoffs, and the World Series may have lasted into November. Baseball’s owners saw
more dollar signs in store for them in realigning, at the expense of the tradition of the game that baseball
purists shout about. Maybe you have to irk traditionalists to make any progressive move in life, and usually everyone forgets
about being angry and just enjoys the new system. Not me, man, I’m staying bitter. Any time a good tradition
gets sacrificed for money’s sake peopleNeed to scream and holler. On to the National Football League. Why is everyone so
upset about that Houston Oilers football player losing a week’s pay, $125,000, for missing a game? Sports writers are up
in arms because the team withheld his check when he missed the Oilers’ game with the New England Patriots to
be with his wife in the hospital after she’d had a baby, some 17 hours before kickoff time. I understand
folks defending his actions, and I hope I’d have done the same thing he did if my wife had just
had our first child. But he did miss the game, so why should he get paid as if he’d played
it? If I don’t show up for my work study, no matter how good the reason, I don’t get paid
as if I’d been there. The man didn’t play the game, so he doesn’t deserve to get paid, it’s that
simple. Plus, you do the math, if he’s making 125 grand each game for sixteen weeks, will he miss the
one check?

Now for some more rapid-fire complaints and questions. Will the Atlanta Braves please come up with a closing pitcher? Will
somebody at Davidson please trim the tree branches above the outdoor basketball courts? What were the powers that be thinking
when they planted a light pole right smack-dab in the middle of the same courts? Does Larry Johnson really need
$84 million dollars? Need I even ask that question? Did Michael Jordan really have to retire? Can anybody beat Florida
State in football? Will anyone be able to beat North Carolina in basketball this season? Should Davidson have beaten Randolph-Macon
or what? Getting tired of this yet?

Now, I don’t mean to sound completely bitter, for there certainly are some wonderful things going on in sports today.
Charlotte’s gonna get an NFL franchise this week, college basketball practice gets underway soon (albeit unfortunately late), and Larry Johnson
had the same injury, a herniated disk in his lower back, that I had this summer (no lie). But it’s
good to get angry once in a while, and I have hereby afforded myself that little luxury. I do feel
much better now, and if you’ve read this far, thanks for listening. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m going to
brood as I watch the last real World Series ever. Hopefully, my homecoming date won’t mind.

By Jean DeMoss

Western Carolina hosted the 1993 Cross-Country state meet on Saturday, October 16th. Over twenty teams traveled to the mountains to
compete for all-state honors. A cold, steady rain greeted the Lady Wildcats when they arrived Friday evening to run the
course. The rain continued through the night, letting up in the morning before the gun went off. The starting line
stretched far with over one hundred and fifty runners anticipating the gun; eight runners from Davidson competed. The first mile
of the race was compacted into several tight winding turns on the school’s golf course. Runners were packed together for
the first mile and spectators got a good view of the race. The second mile branched off into a loop
around a parking lot and back through the starting line. A smaller loop over the golf course and again around
the parking lot found the runners at the two-mile mark. After a quick start, Phuong Nguyen led the Wildcats at
the two-mile mark. Despite the soggy grass and crowded race conditions, splits hovered around thirteen minutes.

The third mile started with a long uphill by resident dorms and past the sports complex. The trail leveled off
and wound around by a power plant. The last half mile hugged the outskirts of the woods. The trail gradually
sloped downwards, with the finish line visible, and the harriers picked it up on the third mile. Phuong Nguyen crossed
the finish line in a respectable 20:06. She was quickly followed by Carolyn Meadows, Katie McKelvie, Stephanie Moses, and Erin
Roach all finishing under 20:30. Alicia Dandar ran a great race with a personal best of 21:00. The Lady Wildcats
plan to put it all together for the Southern Conference Meet next weekend in Charleston, SC, a very pretty southern
town.
