THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993 - 5

Students question Davidson's Pass/Fail policy: Too restrictive?
By Katherine Hash

Questions are raised by students about the legitimacy of stipulations governing Davidson’s pass/fail policy. Many feel that the college ought
to extend the time allowed for pass/fail petition submission and keep students' choice of the pass/fail grading mechanism confidential.

Approximately 350 students took classes on a pass/fail basis last spring, but many came to regret their decisions. Sophomore Kakki
McEntire wanted to explore two new subjects, philosophy and religion. Of the two classes she chose to take: religion pass/fail.
She ended the semester with an A, recorded on her transcript as a "P", in religion and a C in
her philosophy class. McEntire insists that she could have made a wiser decision if she had a few more weeks
to “feel out the classes” - get to know the amount and nature of the work required and her chances
of succeeding in each of the classes.

Other students fear that professors will be prone to think of those who choose the pass/fail option as “slackers” or
as uninterested. Possible changes in the policy could be extended deadlines--variations include three weeks into the semester, mid-term, or end
of term--and a removal of the choice of grading mechanism from professors’ class rosters.

According to the current academic regulations, students who wish to choose the pass/fail grading mechanism for a credit course must
file a pass/fail authorization form with the registrar’s office during the “regular registration period” which includes the two-week drop/add period
at the beginning of the semester. Professors are informed of the students' pass/fail status on their final class rosters. Students
may take up to six classes on a pass/fail basis during their college career. These classes may count towards core
but not major requirements. A passing grade (P) is awarded for work at the C level or above; a D
or below constitutes a failing grade (F). A student’s choice of grading option cannot be reversed once the form is
submitted.

Classifieds

EARN $500-$1,000 WEEKLY stuffing envelopes. For details, rush SASE to: Group Five, 57 Greentree Dr., Suite 307, Dover, DE 19901

Earn $2,500 and Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips and you go FREE! Best trips and prices! Bahamas,
Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City! 1-800-678-6386

What's Cooking is looking for kitchen help. Call or apply after 2pm 892-3800 20700 N. Main The Chair Factory, Cornelius

Ms. Polly Griffin, registrar, explains that the deadline for pass/fail petitions results from “the philosophy that the selection of a
grading mechanism is an integral and inseparable part of the registration process.” Davidson’s pass/fail policy regulations are standard and similar
to those of UNCC, UNC Chapel Hill, and Washington and Lee. Griffin disclaims students’ concerns that professors might be biased
against students who choose the pass/fail option, arguing that the faculty supports the notion of pass/fail and realizes that students
will sometimes choose it in their classes. Griffin acknowledges the possibility of change, but points out that it would have
to be approved by the faculty.

Dr. Earl Edmondson, professor of history, argues that the primary reason for the pass/fail system would not be served by
changing the decision deadline. He suggests the policy intends to “invite students to explore areas outside of their own areas
of expertise which they otherwise would not.” According to Edmondson, the choice to take a class pass/fail is, ideally, made
for the reason above.

College gets gift- 100 years later

GETTYSBURG, Pa. (CPS) - Gettysburg College recently received the biggest single gift in its history - $3.5 million - from
a trust fund established by an 1893 graduate. Merle Stauffer Boyer’s will stipulated that the college ultimately would receive all
proceeds from a trust established to benefit his two children, Kathryn and Donald in 1993. They left no heirs, so
the trust was dissolved and the proceeds were given to Gettysburg College. “What makes the Merle Boyer gift so special
is that students who will make their mark on the world of the 21st century will have as their benefactor...”a
graduate from the 19th century,” said college President Gordon Haaland.

Straight group supports gay rights

HOUSTON (CPS) - The name says it all. Straight But Not Narrow is a group of heterosexual students who have
banded together to support gay and lesbian rights and fight homophobia at the University of Houston.

“There is no reason for homophobia,” John Cobb, president of the new organization, told The Daily Cougar. Cobb said his
group wanted to emphasize that not all heterosexual people fear homosexuals. “It’s simple. We’re straight; but not narrow-minded,” said Maryelaine
Eckerle, vice president of the group. “Everyone should have equal rights, and everyone should have the right to come out
in support of gays and be who they are.”

Mitchell Nicholas, executive administrator of the Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Alliance, said his group supported the efforts of SBNN. “You
don’t have to be gay to support lesbians’ equal rights,” Nicholas said. “People are realizing that 95 percent of our
lives are like everyone else’s.”

Cobb said SBNN would be involved in the National Coming Out march and rally October 11 and AIDS Awareness Week
in November.

Students with big ideas

MINNEAPOLIS (CPS) - A new national grant program dubbed “The Big Idea” offers students $2,000 grants for designing innovative service
projects to battle social problems in their campus communities. The program, sponsored by the Jostens Foundation in partnership with the
Campus Outreach Opportunity League (COOL), announced the program, which will provide grants to 10 students throughout the country in September.
The projects must reflect creativity and innovation, and have the potential to be replicated on other campuses.

“Further evidence of growing student concern over social issues can be found in the profusion of new student service organizations
like COOL that have sprung up since the late 1980s as well as in a marked resurgence in established service
programs,” COOL said.

Ken Norton

RAEFORD'S BARBER SHOP

Yes, Davidson has a new barber shop!

James Raeford - 30 years of experience
Joe McClain - 51 years of experience
121 years of barbering experience

206 MAIN STREET - ACROSS FROM EXXON

In which case any knowledge relevant to the decision (i.e. personal background or interest in that area) is presumably already
known. Dr. Sam Maloney, professor of religion, is opposed to changing the deadline for making a decision which, he says,
ought to be based on one’s predisposition towards the subject not on class performance. The policy, he maintains, is “not
designed to keep students from getting Cs but to encourage them to take classes necessary for a good liberal arts
education where they might not make As.”

Edmondson sees how the pass/fail system also functions as a “pressure valve to relieve pressure at least psychologically” for students
with tough schedules and recognizes practical motivations for taking classes pass/fail. Edmondson projects that the faculty would be reluctant to
allow these practical considerations to overrule the ideal basis of the system but admits that he is willing to consider
the idea.

Edmondson admitted that it was possible, though not probable, that professors would be biased against pass/fail students. He personally makes
a conscious effort not to register or pay attention to that information on his class roster and would not be
opposed to it being removed. Proposals for change would have to be brought before the Educational Policy Committee composed of
several faculty members and two student representatives with the registrar serving as an advisor.

<a 11,12 one

Gover (ts your past. [ts your Future, Its your Finger

rJHIS ving 1S made of coves pheric parties SiGSiia2 mise in Amer ee Ctine 10 am - 3 pm Bic
Bookstore, Monday and Tuesday - $15 deposit

AVINO'S

Pitchers of Beer

More than just great pizza! We also deliver dinners, subs, BEER and WINE!

Our Prices Can't Be Beat!

Monday Special
Buy any item from our menu, get the 2nd one 1/2 price. (Excluding drinks & appetizers)

Wednesday Special
All U Can Eat Pizza

All ABC Permits -- TV in Bar

892-4794
1-77 Exit 30. Davidson * Sadler Square * M-F 11:30-10:00 * Sat 4:00-10:00

WE DELIVER

$4.50
$3.00
