OPINIONS _ 8 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993

Gull's Nest

Summer: The time of pennant races and quasi-expensive beer

By Bill Gullan

The summer is a time of pennant races, familiar faces, exotic places, and empty cases. It’s the season of uncompromising
love and compromising positions. It’s when dreams are realized or when boredom sets in. It’s a time to splurge and
a time to save. It goes too fast or too slow; never just right. The girls look great, the beer
tastes good, and academia is, oh, so far away.

I have no A/C at home. I have a fan in my room, so I tended to lie in my
bed like a beached whale. That’s something one can do in the summertime, and I sure did it. The heat
wave of ’93 hit Philly like a ton of scalding hot bricks, and the city moaned from under floppy hats
and Ray-Ban sunglasses. At lunch downtown, the skirts got shorter, the shirtsleeves were rolled up, and the drivers were frustrated.
People wasted time, waiting for that first cold beer or the pregame show.

Speaking of wasting time, my job was just that. I filed, typed, proofread, and stuffed envelopes at the University of
Pennsylvania. However, I earned beer money, smoke money, waste-on-annoying-girlfriend money, and savings account money. And my resume will say, “fundraising.”

Summer is also the time for quasi-expensive beer. Once the GPA shock wore off, I could always count on going
home with mom to the distributor for our family’s needs. I was always able to convince her that, “Yes, mom,
Sam Adams and Moosehead are cheap beers.” Also, Beast ain’t sold in bars. Neither are Piels or Busch.

Summer is also a fine time to road trip. Whether it be the Jersey shore, Baltimore, New York, or Ocean
City, my supercharged Escort frequently escorted a small yet boisterous group of drunkards around the East coast. I did spend
a week in D.C. at a convention with a bunch of young fascists like myself, and was excited to find
that there are other young Republicans who can dispense with their policy debates long enough to suck down a few.
By the way, check out Kelly’s Irish Times on Capitol Hill. Great bar. To quote Robert Louis Stevenson, “In summer
quite the other way, I have to go to bed by day!”

Summer was not just a string of alcoholic mornings, afternoons, and evenings, though. Between my job at Penn and the
help I gave my father at his warehouse, I worked a lot. I also read actual books and got back
in touch with current events. I also had a girlfriend for a while. The whole thing petered out in early
August, but when funds run low, nothing is better than snuggling up with a nice girl in front of the
tube (if you can get her to watch baseball).

That last point brings me to the real highlight of my summer: the world champion Phillies (oh, I guess they
haven’t officially won it yet). All cockiness aside, they are an exciting team to watch, and that they are able
to win with half the team possessing worse physiques than my own is a miracle. October will be fun for
me, win or lose. It sure beats last place (sorry Mets fans, your team belongs in the minors).

Alas, summer has left us, or we it. Either way, it sure was fun while it lasted. As the sad
old song goes, “We’ll have these moments forever, but never again.”

Biologies, cancer, back rooms, and your education

Editors' note: The following is an excerpt from a speech given by Duke University President, Nannerl Keohane, when she welcomed
the class of 1997. This is reprinted from the Charlotte Observer.

Be intellectually bold and adventurous. If you stick entirely to subjects you already know something about and feel like you
will do well in, you’ll miss the opportunity to discover whole new ways of looking at the world. You will
be like an explorer who chickens out just before the big voyage and decides, instead of traveling up the Amazon
or trying to get to Mars, to play it safe and visit the town next door instead.

The biggest cancer of an undergraduate education is worrying too early and too much about what you’re going to do
afterward. That kind of worry consumes your time and energies, redirects your vital juices in perverse directions, and slowly drives
out more healthy intellectual impulses.

To make you a more interesting person to spend time with, both for yourself and others, ought to be one
of the primary purposes of your education. One of my favorite authors is Michel de Montaigne, who wrote a book
for which he coined a new title that has become a common noun: essais. The French root of this word
means to try, to experiment, to give things a chance and see what happens. Montaigne hit upon a lovely image
that I commend to you: the image of the “back room of the mind.” He thought of his own mind
as a kind of tower.library to which he could retreat, filled with quotations from wise people and experimental thoughts and
jokes and anecdotes, where he could keep company with himself. He suggested that we all have such back rooms in
our minds, and that the most valuable and attractive people we know tend to be people who have rich and
fascinating furniture in those spaces rather than a void between their ears. You might think of your education as a
way of furnishing the back room of your mind.

If you succumb to the temptation to spend all your time at Duke with people who dress and think and
talk just like you do, you will be cheating yourself of one of the most significant parts of a good
education. They will reinforce your notion that the world really is just exactly the way you think it is; but
that’s a dangerous conceit. One of the advantages of a great university is that there are many different kinds of
people, with many ways of looking at the world. You should take advantage of that to find out what the
world looks like to them, in order to broaden and refine your own knowledge of the world. It’s easy to
assume that having different kinds of folks around is just a feature of the place that you are expected to
tolerate, carefully avoiding being mean or prejudiced. But diversity on a university campus involves much more than that. It is
one of the essential sources of your education; you should value diversity and learn from it.

The opinions section is looking for writers who do not have witty opinions about campus life. If you have any
sincere insights please contact Alex Crumbley at -6178.

WE INTERRUPT THIS PROGRAM FOR AN IMPORTANT MESSAGE

Everyone is requested to step outside, point your remote at Mars and, on the count of three...

[Nathan Seay]

I'm a bigger dork than I thought I was. Not since Black Monday have more people on this campus run
home crying. Hopes of a new world order — gone. Hopes of an early retirement — gone. Hopes of achieving
respectability in this lifetime — gone. Camelot is dead. Brother, can you spare a dime?

You seniors know of what I speak. Last Tuesday night's Careers meeting beheld a spectacle which revealed to the class
of 1994 what their future looked like. It is not a pretty picture. I realized what I had to offer
the world, and with it came a clearer picture of what Napoleon must have felt like after Waterloo; what Lee
was feeling at Appomattox; what Nixon felt like after Watergate; or what was going through Pee Wee Herman’s mind at
Charlie’s Pleasure Palace (after the cop walked in, I mean).

The speakers drove into our heads the importance of a good resume: So I called forth my memories of the
past four years and came up with something that looked like Homer Simpson’s high school yearbook:

Activities: None
Sports: None
Honors: None

Ah! So many memories! I have absolutely no real-world skills. I can read and write, but my spelling isn’t always
that good. I can’t even do simple math. I’m paralyzed for hours at a time in grocery store aisles, trying
to figure out if the 64-ounce bottle of Olde English 800 is a better deal than two of the 32-ounce
ones. Everything that I could put down in a resume would be a stretch. I never got any credit when
I went out and rubbed popcorn in my hair. How am I going to explain to IBM that the experience
taught me anything? I was the instigator of the thing (so I’m told); does that make me a leader? Last
weekend I was doing cartwheels in the middle of Patterson Court. Does that make me creative?

I have done nothing all through my college career, and now I have to find a way to make it
in the real world. The way I see it, I have two options: 1) I could sleep with someone really
important or 2) a long-lost eccentric millionaire relative of mine could die and leave me all of his money. The
odds of a millionaire leaving his money to me are much better than me sleeping with anyone, let alone someone
important.

The real world is approaching me about as fast as a windshield closing in on a bug. I can’t even
look forward to Beavis and Butt-Head. MTV has shown the exact same episode for the past three nights. Immediately following
the senior meeting entitled “We Have Your Eighty Thousand Dollars and There’s Nothing You Can Do About It” I ran
into the one comfort I have. If anything has helped me get through college, it is Geoffrey Chaucer’s Troilus and
Creseyde. Of course, I’m kidding. (Sorry, Dr. Gibson) I did what any self-respecting 21-year-old would do. I ran straight to
the grocery store, bought a case of beer, and drowned my sorrows with a bunch of equally miserable seniors.

The moral of the story: run to your richest relative and start brown-nosing fast.
