SPORTS 14 MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

Cat Nips

Precedent setters: Terry Holland's teams put DC on basketball map

By Jason Byassee

Imagine this: A Davidson College basketball team sharing the nation’s hoops spotlight with the likes of such big-time schools as
Duke and North Carolina. A respected and even feared team nationally, rising as high as third in the polls and
often knocking off top-notch opponents. There’s a fiery young coach at the helm who has recruited an impressive bunch of
All-Americans, allowing the team to go more than ten years without losing a game on campus.

It all happened right here at Davidson, a mere thirty years ago. Seems like most Davidson students have heard that
the school’s hoops program was once pretty good; that we beat some decent teams or went to the NCAA tournament
or something. I don’t think we realize just how good the team was, though. The numbers that Davidson racked up
from the early 60s to the mid-70s look like they belong on a plaque in Chapel Hill or Durham. Count
‘em: four Southern Conference Championships in five years, the top record in the league for nine out of ten years,
four year-end rankings in the nation’s top ten, and two straight visits to the NCAA tournament’s Final 8. Not even
our current soccer team can boast that kind of longevity.

One of the principal figures behind the Golden Era of Davidson Basketball was Athletic Director Terry Holland, who followed his
playing career with five years as an assistant coach and five more as the head of the program. He arrived
as Head Coach Lefty Driesell’s first-ever recruit in 1960, and left in the mid-1970s as the last coach to guide
Davidson to true national prominence. His contribution as a player was most significant, however, in that it lit the program’s
first spark of success. The first breakthrough came in Holland’s junior year as Duke visited the sold-out Charlotte Coliseum, a
game still touted as the “greatest win in Davidson sports history.” A steal and a pair of free throws by
a scrappy point guard named Terry Teague bested the number two ranked Blue Devils.

Soccer turns in impressive results

By Will Cobb

On a chilly evening, Davidson squared off against N.C. State last Thursday for their last matchup against ACC teams this
year. The game also ended their six-game stretch versus teams that have been in the top 25 this year. The
Cats entered with a 2-3 record against top 25 teams, and with a win they would come out with a
.500 record for the stretch and push the Cats over that mark for the second time this season.

The Davidson-N.C. State game has become a traditionally close game with last year’s regular season match ending in a 4-4
tie and in the playoffs the unforgettable overtime thriller. This one would be no different. The two teams came out
strong, both with excellent scoring opportunities and they played a scoreless first half. All of the statistics were even, as
both schools took about the same number of shots. The Wolfpack, however, took more shots on goal, only to be
denied by Neal Andrews every time. The game stood at 0-0 until the Pack got on board with 23 minutes
left in the second half on a broken play that left the N.C. State striker with a wide-open shot. But
Davidson came right back in a fury. The Cats took only six minutes to bring the game to a tie.
Off a beautiful cross from junior Ryan Northington, senior Ben Hayes finished perfectly with a header that the Wolfpack keeper
had no chance to save. With the game far from over, the Pack brought on a hard charge for the
remainder of the game, unloading some shots simulating cannonballs. But these shots produced no goals, and the two teams headed
into overtime. The two overtime sessions brought on many intense moments as both squads produced excellent scoring opportunities. At one
point, it appeared that N.C. State would take the lead.

See Pack on page 15

Photo by Anne Bartholomew

Davidson defensive end Bo Bartholomew and tackle James Cassidy rough it up during the Rhodes game. Davidson's defensive line has
been a mainstay of the team all season and helped preserve Saturday's 21-14 victory over Washington and Lee.Devils by a
72-69 score. Holland remembers the result well: “The next year Duke refused to play us in Charlotte,” he said. “Lefty
called [Duke head coach Vic] Bubas ‘yellow,’ which ended the relationship for several years and we didn’t play Duke at
all.”

The Cats were just warming up. The next year they vaulted to the number three ranking in the nation by
beating Ohio State on national television. Davidson’s victory broke the Big Ten School’s fifty-game home win streak and brought the
school some unaccustomed media attention, including a feature story in Sports Illustrated. Following the Ohio State victory, the team returned
home to Charlotte’s Douglas airport with a hero’s welcome from a throng of supporters. They had not only electrified the
Davidson campus with the OSU victory, but all of Charlotte’s basketball fans as well. Holland was the first to step
off the plane that day and hear the cheers. “They pushed me off,” he said. “Somebody had to go first.
They said, ‘you gotta go!’”

That team did lose eventually, for the first time in the regular season.

See Holland on page 16

---

Football hangs on to beat Washington & Lee

Quarterback Howell rushes for three touchdowns, leading Cats to victory

By Neil Marks

The Cats are back. Davidson football rallied in the fourth quarter to prevail 21-14 over Washington & Lee this past
Saturday in Lexington, Va. In order to bring their record up to 3-2, the Cats had to beat a pumped-up
Washington & Lee team, who were celebrating their homecoming. The 21-14 victory this week, coupled with a 35-24 victory over
Guilford last Saturday, gave the Wildcats their first back-to-back road victories in the last fifteen years. Back in 1978, the
Wildcats defeated Washington & Lee 34-7 and then followed it up with a 42-0 pounding of Randolph Macon.

Richard Howell sparked the fourth-quarter comeback with two rushing touchdowns from one and six yards out. Howell scored from one
yard out in the first quarter as well, and finished the day with 75 yards on 24 carries. Washington &
Lee had a final chance to tie it up when they recovered a fumble at their own five-yard line and
drove it down to the Davidson 32. A failed fourth-down attempt turned the ball over to the Wildcats with just
over two minutes to play. Two first downs sealed the victory for Davidson.

Two touchdown passes from Brooks Fischer put the Generals up 14-7 at halftime. Davidson’s defense made some adjustments at halftime
and held Fischer to only one completion of eleven yards in the entire second half. For the Generals’ second touchdown
of the first half, the Davidson defense was not to blame. With only two minutes to play in the half,
Washington & Lee punted to Jason Branch, who is filling in for the injured Alden Smith. Branch fumbled the ball
on the four-yard line and the Generals converted the Davidson blunder into a touchdown.

Senior Rob King commented, “We were ecstatic with the victory. This was the first time all season we came back
and won. We played really inspired.” King felt that Kevin Holzworth’s leadership and attitude helped the Cats prevail. King added,
“He’s a quarterback, but he laid people out with blocks. He head-butted with the offensive linemen in the huddle, and
he really got us going.”

The Wildcats had 199 total yards in the second half compared to 140 for the Generals. After playing four of
its first five games on the road, the Wildcats look forward to three straight home games, including next Saturday’s game
against Methodist.

---

Davidson v. W & L Statistics

Scoring
Davidson 7 0 0 14 - 21
W&L 7 7 0 0 - 14

D - Howell 1 run (Fassett kick)
W&L - Moore 11 pass from Fischer (Thomas kick)
W&L - Mason 5 pass from Fischer (Thomas kick)
D - Howell 1 run (Fassett kick)
D - Howell 6 run (Fassett kick)

Att. - 5,000 (at Washington & Lee)

Team Stats
D W&L
First Downs 20 21
Rushes-yards 45-147 56-219
Passing 173 114
Return-yards 60 55
Comp-Att-Int 10-18-0 11-19-2
Punts 5-39 5-40
Fumbles-Lost 4-3 1-1
Penalties-yards 7-66 9-98
Time of Possession 23:25 36:35

Individual Stats
Rushing - Howell 24-75, Bannister 16-64, Mills 1-6, Holzworth 4-2
Passing - Howell 10-15-0-140, Holzworth 1-3-0-33
Receiving - Mills 3-57, Baily 2-56, Holzworth 2-24, Bannister 2-16
