THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993

Harriers welcome alumni

By Jean DeMoss

A Davidson tradition continued this week when the Davidson cross-country team hosted the eighth annual Davidson alumni race on Saturday.
The cross-country team, alumni, friends, and professors all competed. Although a small meet, runners traveled from as far as Miami
to compete, and many did not come home empty-handed. Runners competed for high stakes; tee-shirts were awarded to top finishers.

The men ran first, fielding a strong pack of twenty-four runners. No other collegiate team competed, thus everyone had the
home course advantage. With a crop of recent graduates, there was no pre-race favorite. A light breeze stirred and the
sun began its ascent when the men’s race started at 9:30 a.m. Hailed from the east to west as a
challenging course, the harriers attacked Davidson’s hills with vigor. Spectators kept up with the race through radio reports from volunteers
on the course.

John Moss, a 1991 graduate, led from the start and blitzed to a 27:32 finish, the second fastest alumni time
ever. Finishing second was team captain, Junior Eric McMichael, in 28:09. Third place went to David Kerns, a 1993 graduate,
at 28:47. Fourth place went to 1992 graduate, Ted Richardson, at a time of 30:10. This was his last race
before heading to Somalia. Freshman David Foss’ parents, all the way from Connecticut, cheered him to a fifth-place finish at
30:37. And Professor Maydole represented the faculty with a respectable sixth-place finish. Davidson’s own, Sterling Martin and Bill Giduz also
continued their jogging traditions.

The gun went off for the women’s race at 10:15. The sun was higher when the fourteen girls rushed into
the woods. Davidson’s harriers took off in a pack. In order to finish the 3.1-mile course...

Soccer ties rival N.C. State for second straight year

Pack continued from page 14

...when they drew Andrews out of goal and unloaded a shot, but fortunately, it was deflected by a Davidson defender.
All opportunities produced no goals and the two reproduced a tie for the second year in a row. Davidson showed
a great deal of improvement as they sent many beautiful crosses throughout the whole game, and the defense has become
more consistent. It is obvious that the team is getting stronger and stronger as the squad heads into the second
half of the season.

The tie kept the Cats' record at 5-5-1 with an overall 5-5-1 mark. Davidson headed back into Southern Conference action
with a road trip to Charleston to face the Citadel Bulldogs. The game versus a lesser opponent gave the Cats
a well-needed comfortable victory, and they took care of business with a 4-0 drubbing. Jon Olin led the charge with
his second and third goals of the season. Scott Ellis and Eric Sjostrom also added goals to put the game
away. Neal Andrews preserved the shutout as the Cats improved their Southern Conference record to 2-1 and pushed their overall
record to 6-5-1.

Davidson hits the road for their next five games before returning home on the 27th to face Appalachian State. With
eight games remaining, the Cats have an excellent opportunity to finish the year with nine straight victories. None of the
games are patsies, but Davidson matches well against all of these teams. With only two of these games played at
home...Facing these teams on the road will not make the situation easier. Still, this stretch will be important for an
NCAA bid, seeding for the Southern Conference tournament, and confidence for the probable rematch against Furman University. Alumni and friends
need to run tangents, work the straightaways, and bear down on the second mile. Sophomore Phuong Nguyen continued her streak
and won the women’s race in 20:45. She was followed by Marie Grisez 21:14, Katie McKelvie 21:15, Stephanie Moses 21:32,
and Carolyn Meadows 21:40. While the current cross-country team dominated, the alumni had a strong showing.

UNCC outscrums rugby
By Dack Stackhouse

The Davidson Rugby team traveled to UNC-Charlotte for a day of mixed results. After poor turnout at practice the week
before, the team played well but fell to UNC-Charlotte. UNCC has always been a strong team but is not even
ranked due to their recent reinstatement to the Rugby Union of North Carolina. The loss is the bad news. The
good news is that the Davidson team met two very promising candidates for the job of coaching them. Both men
expressed serious interest in coming to help develop the team which has raw talent but lacks the leadership of a
person who has played for ten or twenty years.

In the A game, Derek Slayton stood out as the star of the team, scoring Davidson’s only first-half try. He
snagged a Charlotte pass and ran sixty meters for the try. The conversion gave Davidson seven points. Despite this play
and some other standout performances, UNCC dominated the first half. The team recharged at halftime and played intensely in the
second half. However, UNCC scored two tries to Davidson’s one in the second half. Again it was Slayton in the
try zone, running beautifully and raising Davidson’s score to fourteen.

The B game was played with more enthusiasm by the Wildcats but their fatigue was evident. The UNCC team, with
many more fresh players, managed their second victory for the day. Despite this minor setback, the team is hopeful about
the rest of the season. All four remaining games will be home games. The next match is against Western Carolina
University on October 23 at 1:00 p.m. for Homecoming. The next weekend the team will host Wake Forest for Parents’
Weekend. WFU is Davidson’s biggest rivalry, and it promises to be one of the best matches in the state this
year. In November, the Wildcats host both Guilford College and Washington and Lee. All matches are at 1:00 p.m. on
the upper IMAC fields.

They're like typical college roommates. Really, really cheap.

Apple Personal LaserWriter® 300. Right now, you can get a great price on an Apple® printer for your computer lab.
You can even get special financing with the Apple Computer Loan. So you'll be able to print sharp, professional-looking papers
right there in your room — without having to wait around at the computer lab. See your Apple Campus Reseller
today. And discover the power more college students prefer. The power to be your best.

For further information visit Computer Services Center. Contact Kim Kenyon at x2432. Available to qualifying students at participating authorized Apple
Campus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, LaserWriter, Macintosh, StyleWriter, and "The power to
be your best" are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.
