4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

Workshops on interviewing skills may help students get jobs

By Scott Windham

To help students prepare adequately for the round of job interviews which begins in late fall and continues well into the spring, the Office of Career Services offers a series of programs designed to hone students’ interview skills. With the help of area professionals and Davidson faculty and staff, Director Carol Jordan has created a set of interviewing workshops, where students gather to learn the finer points of successful interviewing. Among the “insider tips” might be how to dress to look the part of the job you are trying to obtain, how to use positive body language and avoid negative body language, or even what sort of pens and paper to bring.

Local business

"Photo by Casey Rogers

Every tree on campus has an attached scientific label.

Campus is an arboretum

Tree continued from page 1

The vision of Davidson’s campus as an arboretum dates back to 1869 when the Board of Trustees received a proposal from the faculty “to make the Campus in its contents represent in time the forest growth of the State, and, if possible, the general botany of the region.” After many years of hard work and cooperation, the Physical Plant and the Biology Department, who together hope to “develop, maintain and display a major collection of woody plants that will thrive in the Piedmont of North Carolina,” have achieved and even surpassed these goals with the development of the Davidson Arboretum.

Interest in the idea of the campus as an arboretum was renewed in 1982 when the Director of the National Arboretum in Washington D.C., Mr. Henry M. Cathey, urged President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. to use the campus’ grounds as a working arboretum. A subsequent $10,000 donation from the estate of Mr. Edwin Latimer Douglas, whose first loves were forestry and Davidson College, made it possible to convert Davidson’s collection of various trees and shrubs into an official arboretum by cataloging and labeling each plant. Good record keeping is one of the important distinguishing characteristics of an arboretum. The arboretum’s caretakers, Superintendent of Grounds Mr. Brawley and the Physical Plant, were able to improve their record keeping methods in 1985 when a $5,000 donation from Martin Marietta Aggregates funded an aerial survey. These aerial photographs were used to make topographical maps and to identify over 1,650 major trees. Today, the Physical Plant has over 2,000 plants identified and located on a grid map. Most of these plants are labeled with metal tags which indicate the plant’s family name, scientific name, common name, location on the grid map, assigned accession number, hardiness zone, and native area. All of this information is now stored on a database computer which makes it more readily accessible.

The number of trees has increased from 1650 to 2000 during the ten years since the initiation of the project in 1982 due to a policy which replaces each lost tree with three new ones. Over 250 trees were lost during Hurricane Hugo in 1990 but they have all since been replaced. The replacement of trees is funded by the general Physical Plant budget. The arboretum does have a small budget of its own which is used to buy labels and cover other small costs.

The development of the arboretum is an ongoing process in which the Physical Plant and work-study students are continually involved. Their most recent project has been the landscaping of the Visual Arts Center. All of the plants on the grounds of the center have been assigned numbers and are now being kept track of. Mr. Brawley believes that members of the community do take advantage of the arboretum. Elementary and secondary school teachers bring science classes to the arboretum for field trips. Junior and senior high school students make use of the arboretum when collecting leaves for projects. Local garden clubs and other organizations participate in guided tours conducted by the Office of College Relations several times a year.times a year. Mr. Brawley is pleased that Davidson’s campus has “begun to attract visitors for the sole purpose of visiting the arboretum,” and believes that the arboretum will continue to provide positive publicity for the college as well as a beautiful sight for all those who visit the campus.

Professionals such as Mr. Bob Wilson, Director of College Recruiting at McGladrey & Pullen, bring their own unique viewpoints to the workshops, adding a “real-world” perspective to the sessions. Each workshop is held on-campus in the late afternoon or evening, and lasts around one hour. In response to requests from past senior classes, Career Services is also instituting a series of videotaped mock interviews. Sign-up is at the Office of Career Services on Main Street. Students who participate will have the opportunity to interview with a faculty or staff volunteer in a realistic but “no-risk” situation. A number of different formats will be offered, including mock business, graduate school, and non-profit type interviews. Recording the sessions on videotape will allow the student and the interviewer to define areas of strength and suggest areas of improvement. This idea is not new; according to volunteer interviewer Dr. Leland Park, ODK offered this same service a number of years ago.

To supplement mock interviews and interview workshops, Jordan emphasizes the importance of informational interviews. Relatively simple to arrange through Davidson alumni and other contacts, informational interviews allow students to do a “trial run,” developing interview skills in a low-pressure situation. “These interviews compel students to research the company they are interviewing with, and to develop strong resumes and references,” tasks necessary in a “real” interview situation, Jordan adds.

Many seniors who have already begun interviews have noticed the interview facilities at the Office of Career Services. The offices in the Julia Johnston House include a spacious interviewers’ lounge, where many recruiters opt to conduct interviews, and two smaller, private interview rooms. According to staff, these rooms are a great improvement over past facilities and lend an air of professionalism to interviews, as well as being comfortable enough to reduce first-time interview jitters.

Careers Library director Ann Melton recommends that, in addition to interview seminars, students browse through the large selection of books. These resources include 101 Great Answers to the Toughest Interview Questions, and Martin Yate’s Knock ‘Em Dead with Great Answers to Tough Interview Questions. Reading space is provided in the library 8:30 to 5:00.

A rumor is spreading around campus, which, if it proves to be true, will cause numerous Davidson women to swoon. The ticket office will neither confirm nor deny whether Andrew Shue, star of “Melrose Place,” has purchased tickets for the NCAA Final Four, to be held in Davidson on December 3. Shue, who portrays Billy on Fox-TV’s “Melrose Place,” is an avid soccer fan who played for Dartmouth’s varsity team during his college days. Lee Sargent, Manager for Special Projects at Davidson says, “What I’m suggesting is that most of the [celebrities] who come to this type of thing will have someone call for them and put the tickets under someone else’s name.” He adds: “Also, people like that will often ask us not to divulge the information. Then, they will call us a week or so before the event, and ask us to prepare for the appropriate security measures.” Sargent did admit that there would be some notable sports figures in attendance for the Final Four. As for whether or not Shue will visit the Davidson campus for the tournament, Davidson females will have to wait and see.

-Ashlyn Dannelly

FINALLY!!! NO MORE TRIPS TO CHARLOTTE!!

HOME GROWN RECORDS

Drive up window!! We Buy and Sell New & Used CDs & Tapes

ALTERNATIVE WORLD MUSIC CLASSICAL COUNTRY SOUL NEW AGE REGGAE METAL TECHNO POP JAZZ RAP

Call ahead and we'll have it wrapped and ready!!

LOCATED IN LAKESHORE MARKET PLACE Behind 1st Charter Bank, Cornelius 896-7882