Construction on DCPC began several weeks ago. A Fellowship Hall and student meeting center are being added to the campus side of the church, while offices and Sunday-school rooms will enlarge the Concord Road side.

THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993

Photo by Brooke McCrae

Former Students Flock to Alumni Weekend
By Shaye Benton

Bearing a license plate from Florida, a car pulled up behind two Davidson students taking a Friday afternoon walk by the tennis courts. “Excuse me, can you tell me how to get to Davidson College?” said the older man with a twinkle in his eye. Obviously well acquainted with the area, the man drove on to show his wife his old dorm.

Davidson College alumni poured in on April 16th for a weekend of beautiful weather. When over 1,000 former Davidson students arrived at their alma mater for Alumni Weekend, the Alumni Office knew the hard work and planning had paid off. Including the latecomers driving or flying to North Carolina from hundreds of miles away, the visiting alumni totaled between 1,100 and 1,200 men and women this weekend. The many activities planned for the classes who gathered for their reunions were all extremely successful and well-attended.

Reunion Coordinator Christy Knight said that one of the most enjoyable events was the Band Party at Baker Sports Complex on Saturday night. The party was planned for the six youngest classes at Davidson this weekend: the classes of ’68, ’73, ’77-’79, and ’83. Around 400 alumni were there to attend the event, lasting from 9:00-1:00 a.m., and to hear a variety of music.

The biggest event of the weekend was the reunion for alumni who graduated 50 years ago.

Students Organize Alternative Radio
WALT continued from page 1

According to the new leaders, the students have faced some reluctance from administrators. They attribute the hesitation to a fear of anti-faculty and administration propaganda. But the leaders have insisted that the intent is solely to offer an avenue for student expression of opinion. Choo explains that administrators also, “don’t want to see money end up in a black hole.”

Choo will serve as Technical Director. What makes this effort any different from those which have not succeeded in the past? The organizers insist that their executive board has an unusual amount of experience with radio production. They also believe their organization and commitment set them apart from the WALTs of the past. Bowman says the “last efforts have been abysmal failures. There has never been this much organization. If we cater to student interest, which we will, it will be popular,” he continues with confidence. He imagines the station played in dorms and eating houses creating more of a common Davidson experience.

The immediate plans include using the current cable TV lines to increase the broadcasting area to include any locations receiving cable television. The following step would install the ten-watt transmitter on the top of the Union or Baker when the FCC grants the license. This would allow WALT to be heard across campus and even beyond when weather permits. Eventually, the group hopes to include Cornelius and even northern Charlotte.

If all goes as planned, this fall students can listen for WALT programs on 580 AM and possibly on FM below 90. Initial broadcasting will last 3-4 hours a day depending on student volunteers to DJ and arrange programming.

John Mack & Son thanks you for your continued support and congratulates the class of 1993 for an outstanding year! Good luck on exams, have a great summer, and come see us next fall for your back-to-school shopping.

Apparel for Men and Women
John Mack & Son
Downtown Mooresville for 81 yearsthe Class of '43. A surprising 50 of the 100 members of the class came to commemorate their days at Davidson. To accompany the 50 alumni were many spouses and other family members. All were invited by President Kuykendall to Vail Commons for a special celebration. To help out with the weekend, dozens of students volunteered their time for alumni activities. Students participated by bartending, setting up for the events, making deliveries, and registering the guests at parties. 

While the weekend provided a chance for many alumni to celebrate with one another, it also allowed a time for each person to reflect on his or her college years. Sitting on the grass of Patterson Court Friday evening was an alum looking down the hill, deep in thought. Many others strolled the campus, thoroughly enjoying being back at Davidson. One alum remarked that he realized only after leaving college how ideal the Davidson atmosphere really is, how much Davidson taught him, and how much the school meant to him.

Students Bare Breasts in Protest

NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ (CPS) — Police were called to break up a student protest that involved 30 female students who bared their breasts during a student government meeting at Rutgers University’s Douglass College. “There were no arrests,” said college spokeswoman Pam Orel. “As far as we know, there will be no disciplinary actions, either.”

Kerry Riordan, 20, a sophomore and political science major, said the demonstration was in protest of the student government’s treatment of some of the students that included “gaveling down” students in meetings who attempt to question authority. Riordan said that the patronizing attitude included not allowing students to have a 24-hour study center, and not supplying security and additional lights on campus after several rapes.

The demonstration, said Riordan, was modeled after a gesture made by Sojourner Truth, a 19th-century abolitionist who bared her breasts to prove that she was a woman after being criticized for “not behaving like a woman.” "It was a liberating act. They have an idea of a stereotype of women,” Truth said.

Sexually Oriented Pinball Machines Cause Stir

COLUMBUS, OHIO (CPS) — Three Elvira pinball machines have some students, faculty, and staff members at Ohio State University on “tilt” because of the character’s suggestive statements and clothing. Some students have asked that the pinball machines, which are located in the lobbies of three dormitories, be removed. “Students and staff are concerned about the graphics. They tend to be sexually exploitive or really focus on violence and lack of human regard,” said Rebecca Parker, the university’s associate director for resident life.

When points are scored on the Elvira machine, her breasts light up, and a recorded voice makes statements like, “Don’t touch me there.” A group of student leaders in the dormitories and housing staff members are planning to meet to see if the machines can be taken out. However, Jennifer Geras, a sophomore who lives in a dorm that houses an Elvira pinball machine, said she saw one already being carted away in a truck.

CAMPUS CRIME
Compiled By Jennifer Kerns

April 3: An unknown male exposed himself to three female students sitting on the patio of the Union Cafe.

April 8: A car parked at the Baker Sports Complex was broken into. A radar detector valued at $150 was stolen. Nothing else was taken.

April 11: Several Belk residents received harassing phone calls. The subject made crude comments to these individuals and refused to give information when the police officer got on the line.

April 13: Two cars parked outside the Stowe Tennis House were damaged. One of the cars had its hood scratched and antenna destroyed. The other car suffered damage on the right and left side doors.

Anyone with information regarding any of these crimes should contact the Campus Police.