SPORTS 14 MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

By Robert Lloyd-Still

The jinx is finally over. After losing nine consecutive games to UNCC, Davidson (3-1) defeated the Forty-Niners 71-65 Saturday night. This came after a 77-68 loss earlier in the week to Wake Forest. This was the biggest win for the Davidson basketball program since beating the University of Miami two years ago, and it came with former Davidson greats Lefty Dreisell and Fred Hetzel in attendance.

“This was a great win for us. We have struggled in the five years I have been here against UNCC,” Coach Bob McKillop stated. “Winning this neighborhood rivalry was so important to our seniors: Jason Zimmerman, Janko Narat, Ron Horton, and Chris Shields. It was a great environment with lots of support from the students.”

This game also marked the coming-out party for sophomore Quinn Harwood. With 3,068 fans in attendance, Harwood was tremendous, posting career highs with 19 points and 11 rebounds. With starters George Spain and Brandon Williams in early foul trouble, Harwood delivered offensively, defensively, and with the intangibles. He made key shots, important rebounds, and hit four clutch free throws down the stretch. His most important shot came with the Cats clinging to a 57-54 lead and only 5:47 remaining. With the shot clock down to one second, Harwood drilled a three-pointer from deep in the corner. That shot extended the lead to six and the Cats never looked back.

“He was simply superb. He had a double-double,” Coach McKillop said. “He played like the kind of player we recruited. A great performance.”

Davidson also got a solid performance from Senior Janko Narat. The Yugoslavian native scored 20 points and was 12-14 from the free throw line. Brandon Williams added eight for the Cats and his three-point play with only a minute left sealed the victory for Davidson. George Spain and Jeff Anderson added six points each for the Wildcats and sophomore Chris Alpert kept the Cats steady, playing a team-high 38 minutes.

UNCC would much rather forget this game. Last year’s hero was this game’s goat. Sophomore

See UNCC on page 15

Coastal takes women's b-ball in a nailbiter

By Neil Marks

A nailbiter. The Davidson women’s basketball team lost a close one to Coastal Carolina 60-58 Saturday, dropping its record to 1-5. The Cats had to play catch-up throughout the first half, but kept it close thanks in part to Erin Butcher’s hot hand. She scored 11 points in the first half, including two with eight seconds left to narrow the Chanticleer lead to a single bucket.

Coastal came out hard in the second half, going on a 14-0 run and leaving the Cats down by 12. Sophomore guard Tonya Sharpe explained the Chanticleer run saying, “We should have gotten tighter on defense when they started pulling away. We shouldn’t have fouled as much, but they did well to pick up on some opportunities and seize the momentum.” Coach John Filar added, “We were shooting too early on offense and we let them get some easy buckets in transition.”

Davidson later countered with a 13-0 run of its own and tied the game at 50 with just over six minutes to play. Down by two in the final minute, Davidson had three opportunities to tie off of missed Coastal Carolina foul shots. But the Cats could not convert.

Despite the loss, the team was happy with their performance. Coach Filar remarked, “The past couple of games we weren’t playing two good halves. We usually experience a letdown in the second half. A win would have been great today, but the effort and intensity was worth more.” Coach Filar also wanted to thank the biggest crowd of the season by saying, “I hope they understand how important they are. It’s exciting to hear the Davidson crowd get involved. If they keep coming back, we’ll keep giving the effort.”

The team will now enjoy a long break, with its next game not until January 3 when UNC-Wilmington will come to face the Wildcats at home. Because the team is only a partial member of the Southern Conference, it is in-

Diving

Sophomore Meg Bentley competes on Saturday at Baker. The diving team is led by Thad Reece, who coaches at away meets. The junior from Andrews, North Carolina plans to leave the team, however, as he will spend next semester studying abroad in Ireland. Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Junior Thad Reece dives to success

By Matt Pitzer

One of the things that junior Thad Reece loves so much about diving, that has caused him to dedicate much of his time to that sport, and that has helped promote him to dive team captain and quasi-coach is, simply, pain.

“You’re standing there on a three-meter board about to try something you’ve never done before in your life with a good chance of going Smack! in the water,” Reece said. “Fear of pain is a high motivator to do well.”

If so, then perhaps a list of Reece’s strengths should include his ability to respond to motivation. Because he has been fearful, or maybe wise, enough to work hard at his sport and become the leader of the dive team in just his fourth overall year of diving. In fact, he has garnered enough respect among his peers and coaches to serve as the team’s coach on road trips this season. Marsha Waymouth, the team’s regular coach, holds another position at the LakeNorman YMCA and is unable to accompany the team when it travels to other schools. The team has traveled quite a bit thus far, including one stretch with five straight away matches, allowing Reece to frequently serve a role he loves, even if occasionally he feels wary in that position. “It’s tough,” he said, “because sometimes you feel hypocritical when you tell someone who does the dive better than you what he’s doing wrong. But the team’s real close. I think the team trusts me. It makes it easier for me knowing that they trust me.”

“The rest of the team helps me with my dives, too,” he added. “They know what to look for. It’s reciprocal. I don’t miss out on anything. I just have to watch everyone.” While Reece misses nothing now, he will miss the goal of the entire diving season—the conference championships in March—spending next semester in Ireland. “As excited as I am about going abroad,” Reece said, “it’s definitely disappointing to miss out on finals and the competition against everyone when it’s for medals. It’s definitely a mixture of feelings. It has been hard to stay motivated this year knowing that I won’t be here in the spring. Hard not to slip into the defeatist mode knowing that I’m going to forget everything I’ve learned this season.”

Reece took up diving in his senior year at the North Carolina High School for Science and Math under the tutelage of the diving coach at UNC-Chapel Hill. He and one other diver would drive over to the university after its practice since Science and Math did not have adequate diving facilities. He started with immediate success, placing ninth in the state in his first season. He has followed that up with finishes in the top half of the conference since he’s been at Davidson. He said he was interested in diving since childhood, and one of the factors that made him decide to relinquish a starting position on the high school basketball team was that he knew he could continue diving in college. “I knew that I wouldn’t have much of a place on a college basketball team,” Reece said. “But there’s really no bench in diving and I knew that if I went to a small college like Davidson that I would have a good opportunity to dive.”

Reece has taken full advantage of that opportunity and hopes to one day parlay that into a coaching position. But until then, there is still that slight problem of going smack! in the water, one that when overcome, produces the beauty of the dive.

Cat Nips
The hoopcats are back in full force
By Jason Byassee

If you weren’t in Belk Arena Saturday night for the Davidson/UNCC game, shame on you. That was just a great basketball game, the kind of game that allows you to walk out into the December night in a little better mood than when you came in. Or a lot better. Now, I haven’t seen a stat sheet on the other night and I wasn’t sitting courtside with all the journalist hotshots, but from the standpoint of the average Davidson fan, you couldn’t have asked for a better game. Well, aside from the fact that there were a few empty seats. And that Charlotte did bring a lot of fans with them. In fact, I’d like to thank those 49er fans now, for not only did they make the trek up I-77 to visit our lovely campus, but they added their own unique blend of class and style to the contest as well. I mean, the way they did those “Let’s go Niners” and “D-D-D-Defense” cheers, you’d figure there’d be no way Davidson could win. And boy, when they were doing their “BS” chant for the umpteenth time, I could tell the refs' feelings were really starting to get hurt. Good work guys.

Seriously, one high point of the game was sparked by the UNCC fans. They were trying to rattle Wildcat freshman guard Brian Donnelly by hollering every time he touched the ball. It was funny to hear them trying to intimidate Donnelly on his own home court. Anyway, they quit when he stepped up and drilled a three-pointer amidst their yelling. Nice try, geniuses. Boy, it’s great to have the last word. The jawing between fans is such a key part of any game. This time, our guys happened to be the ones backing up the talk. We were even so kind as to graciously remind UNCC that not only is our current hoops team superior to theirs, but our tradition is, too. Lefty Dreisell was inducted into the Davidson hall of fame at halftime, a thank you for the dominant Davidson teams of Johnston Gym and the 1960s. The induction of the Left-Hander only added to the post-game sweetness savored by Wildcats everywhere.

It was a night when the Charlotte fans would go home bummed out. Davidson played like a team of veterans, and they seemed to be in control throughout. Alpert was the floor general, Janko scored his points, and Brandon Williams made a point to jump through the roof every now and again. But the real story was Quinn Harwood. The guy was on fire! He was on the boards, both on offense and defense. He’s not as big as UNCC’s inside guys; heck, he’s not as big as some of our own. But he played like a giant.