OPINIONS 8 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

Prozac the wonder drug: The danger of buying happiness
By Stephen Faller

Fumbling through the last collection of “door deals,” I found no less than three advertisements for discount counselling services. Strangely
enough, all three were for the same establishment, and even more strangely, the good doctor thought he might find a
market here at Davidson. Catchy words such as effective, safe, and easy were used to hawk hypnosis at bargain rates.
Help is available for all kinds of ills and other odious personal habits, ranging from smoking to “loving too much”
to nail biting. There is a quick cure for everything, and one need go no further than Cornelius. Now, with
less effort than ever before, and just a little hypnosis, you can get yourself fixed up and become a more
productive and attractive society member than you ever imagined.

Almost sounds reasonable, doesn’t it? Except it doesn’t stop there. You can enhance your assertiveness, golf, and tennis. To me,
this just seems to be one step up from buying the perfect body. For the right price, you too can
become the person you always wanted to be. To be or not to be, but more importantly, do I have
enough money, for that is the question. The American Dream has indeed taken on another direction, but life can’t be
bought, and one doesn’t get to have a rich life just from shelling out the appropriate number of bucks. It
takes much more than therapy sessions, anti-depressants, and hypnosis.

Anti-depressants are the most dangerous of all (and Prozac more dangerous than others), because they touch us more effectively than
any jargon about freeing one’s “child.” Here the risk is not just confusing oneself about the nature of things, but
tampering with one’s own delicate chemistry. It is not my point in any way to deny anybody who used or
is presently using any chemical anti-depressant the compassion that they need and deserve. Perhaps such a drug is their only
choice. It is only my point to raise an issue. The issue: How awful it is, if one living being,
just one, used such a drug when they didn’t need it. The details of such a hypothetical case are not
necessary. Just the horrible proposition that somebody needlessly altered their mind. Remember "One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest?" Why settle
for comfortably numb when we can do one better? Why bother to feel bad when it’s perfectly natural to want
to feel good?

Of course, now we don’t see generally feeling down and unmotivated for what it is. Instead, we name it clinical
depression and lobotomize the brain with a “wonder drug” - Prozac. Despite its popularity, I call Prozac a lobotomy. If
my mother were killed, everyone would be mortified if someone chemically altered my brain because of, and for the prevention
of, my mourning. But, if I have stopped taking the time out to enjoy life or have never taken the
initiative to find out what makes life good (and this would be a much sadder catastrophe than the death of
anyone I know), methinks few people would object to chemical alteration of my brain, and consequently, perhaps.

See Faller on page 10

Test your beliefs to learn faith
By Will Lazenby

As Davidson students, we face a lot of challenges. Tough classes, relationships, sports and multitudes of extra-curricular activities inundate us
daily. However, there is one aspect of student life, often taken for granted and neglected, that deserves some attention: faith.

Faith means different things for different people. For me, faith lies in believing in and always being aware of a
clear pattern running through my life. I try to understand that there is a reason for everything, and see a
divine plan in all that is happening around me. But no matter how you define your faith, it needs to
be strong enough to bolster you through any adversity that life throws your way. Faith is the calm in the
midst of life’s tempest, the ability to let go of pain and understand that everything is O.K. just as it
is.

Yet most of us are content to keep our faith hidden, unexposed to life’s pitfalls and adventures. Every so often
we pull out our shiny faith, perhaps in conversation, perhaps on Sunday morning, and turn it over in our hands
to admire its polished, unscratched surface. Then back it goes in its protective chamber, and back we go to life
as usual. The beauty of a strong faith is its no-matter-what-ness. That is, a strong faith is reliable any time,
anywhere, to carry you through whatever circumstance you’re dealing with. But for faith to be secure and beliefs to be
strong, they need to be challenged.

I have some friends that claim to be strong Christians. They attend church and Intervarsity regularly, and seem in every
aspect to be acting on their beliefs. But some aren’t willing to take a religion class here that might contradict
those beliefs. If we are going to live our lives according to a doctrine or belief, shouldn’t...Here is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that See Faith on page 10

The postman always rings twice

By Tony Tuntasit

Did you know that Ultra Tide with “OUTSTANDING WHITENING POWER” is on sale for $3.47 at Roses? If you had
read the key Roses flyer in your mailbox you would have. But I must admit, seeing the Roses literature through
the little P.O. box keyhole is a little more reassuring than seeing the postal workers actually putting the flyer in
my box and having this exact conversation:

POSTAL WORKER #1: Gosh, Tony still hasn’t gotten any mail.
POSTAL WORKER #2: Yeah, I know. He didn’t even get the Special J. Crew Octoberfest & Sauerkraut Fall Preview.
POSTAL WORKER #1: I know, let’s slip him this old Roses flyer from 1982. He'll never know the difference.
POSTAL WORKERS: Hahahahahahahaha!

Actually, I was quite happy the other day when I opened my mailbox and found a letter that I was
expecting from my pal Kathy until I realized that the letter was not actually from Kathy but from my old
girlfriend Rachel. My only question is: (this is addressed to the mailman, the general public, The Supreme Postmaster General, etc...)
WHO GAVE HER MY ADDRESS? Certainly not my friends, nor I. Actually, I’m willing to bet that good old Ed
“You could win 100 quadrillion dollars!!” McMahon gave it to her. And by the way, who gave him my address?

Ex-girlfriends are probably all very nice people who go out a lot, play sports, talk on the phone, watch “Baywatch,”
play Bingo, and use F.B.I. Manhunt Techniques to look for your address. Most guys on my hall are friends with
their girlfriends but don’t enjoy getting letters from them. And the reason why we don’t want to get letters from
our ex-girlfriends is because as men, we see subliminal scary messages hidden in the actual content of the letter. Let
me show you how a typical letter from an ex looks to the typical guy:

Dear Tony, [We see: Oh my dearest Tony,]
So, how is college life? [So, how is life without me?]
I know that Davidson is very difficult so I hope you are handling the work okay. [So, how is life
without me?]
Is the social life exciting? [So, how is life without me?]
I’m sure it is. [You miss me, don’t you?]
College just isn’t the same. [The halls are empty without you.]
I tried calling you this summer. [I really, really, really want to get back together again.]
I had a pretty cool summer. [I had this really neat dream once that we were on some deserted, tropical
island off Aruba.]
Too bad it’s over. [Too bad I woke up.]
Well, I just wanted to let you know that I’ve been thinking about you. [AAAAARGH!]
I hope you are enjoying yourself. [Well, I just wanted to let you know that I’ve been thinking about you.]
Don’t get stressed. [I’ll be waiting.]
Take care. [Marry me.]
Love, [We’ll have beautiful children.]
Rachel

Are guys reading into this too much? Are we being just a little bit too paranoid? Yup. But relationships usually
disfigure the way men and women look at each other so the paranoia is just normal. So when you get
a letter from the ex, just give them a short typical college reply and then at the end tell them
that you're sorry that the letter is so short but that you’ve got to do some laundry. Ultra Tide calls.

Racism vs. Prejudice

By Rafael Candelario and Travis Hinson

Both Travis and Rafael take offense at being called racist. People use words without knowing their meaning. Minorities can be
prejudiced, but not racist. Racism implies economic and political power; minorities until recently have not had access to either. Here
is an example of racism: Jones Dept. Store is hiring a new manager. A Native American goes to apply and
is told the position is taken. Next week Jones Dept. Store hires John Doe with blue eyes and blond hair.
That is institutionalized racism. But anyone can be prejudiced, especially people in the lower socio-economic classes. For example: Antonio Corlione
(Italian) says, “Look at those WASPs, my pop's told me all about ‘em!”

Fortunately, Travis and Rafael are neither racist nor prejudiced; although like everyone else, we may have stereotypes about certain groups.
Example: Most Davidson white boys can’t dance! (Joke, haha.) But, we are trying to learn through multiculturalism and shared learning.
Essentially, if you are not part of the solution, you are part of the problem.

The following excerpt comes from Paula Rothenberg’s Race, Class, & Gender. The “you” and “us” she refers to is the
dominant group, or to be exact, whites in general.

“Even though most of us do not like to think of ourselves as either believing in, or engaging in, such
dominations, it is, in fact, difficult for a member of a dominant group to do otherwise.

"But to keep on doing these things, one need only behave ‘normally.’

“[Whites] can even believe that both they and the subordinate group share the same interests and, to some extent, the
same experience... Folk tales, black jokes, and women stories are often based on how the wily peasant or sharecrop-

See Racism on page 8
