SPORTS 14 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993

Davidson ends Charlie's Invitational with win vs. Wake

By Will Cobb

The Davidson soccer team started their six-game stint versus top 25 teams last Wednesday against the 9th ranked Duke Blue
Devils. After 90 minutes of regulation, the two teams found themselves tied at 1 apiece and headed into overtime. Scenting
a huge upset, Davidson had its chances to score but Duke grabbed the lead and never let go with 5
minutes and 16 seconds left in the second overtime on a beautiful cross to Jason Kreis who headed the ball
into the corner of the net.

After a scoreless first half, Duke took the lead early in the second half after only 2 minutes and 45
seconds of play when Brian Kelly took a crossed ball and headed it in for a 1-0 lead. The score
held until 4:16 left to play when senior Andy Haile punched in his second goal of the year. About two
minutes before Davidson’s goal brought the return appearance of goalie Alex Deegan. Coach Slagle decided to make this move to
generate momentum and it worked, but Deegan’s playing time was kept short as Neal Andrews returned following the goal. Davidson’s
defense played excellently, sacrificing every part of their bodies to block the 26 shots Duke generated. Though the loss was
tough, the Cats looked strong, playing toe to toe with one of the nation’s most respected programs from start to
finish.

The Cats took this strong performance into this past weekend’s Verbatim Charlie’s Invitational tournament here at Davidson. On Friday night,
Davidson matched up against Southern Conference rival Furman. The 18th ranked Paladins jumped on the Wildcats quick, scoring less than
6 minutes into the game, and then took a 2-0 lead five minutes later when a rebounded ball was pounded
into the net. But Davidson answered early in the second half.

Photo by Mike Wang
Bryce Smith goes up for the header. Rob Malinzak looks on. The Cats lost to Duke Wednesday 2-1.

Field hockey takes three straight games

By Nancy Hilles

Last week the Davidson field hockey team went 3-0 as they defeated Catawba College, Appalachian State, and Louisville. The Wildcats
bounced back from their loss to Wake Forest, playing three strong games and bringing their overall record to 6-3.

The Cats began their streak last afternoon when they defeated Catawba 3-0. Davidson dominated from the whistle, out-hustling and out-smarting
the Catawba Indians with quick, accurate passing. The Cats' defense was solid as usual, and the team’s offensive pressure was
especially strong. Senior co-captain Erin Lang scored the first goal off a penalty stroke, whisking the ball by the Catawba
goalie to the upper right corner of the cage. The second goal was scored by Andrea Short, who was fresh
off the injury list and playing with her usual pizzazz. The Wildcats kept up the intensity throughout the game, with
Nicole Ficeto scoring the third goal toward the end of the second half. Overall, the victory was a successful group
effort; every player contributed to the win.

The Cats got another notch in the win column when they defeated ASU 2-0 on Friday. In the first half,
sophomore Holly Kledis got her third goal of the season when she pushed the ball right by the Appalachian goalkeeper.
The Wildcats' second goal was scored off a flawless corner play when Nicole Ficeto passed co-captain Suzanne Hardesty the ball
at the top of the circle. Hardesty hit a perfectly placed drive into the corner of the net. As the
Wildcats successfully put pressure on the ASU goal cage, Davidson’s defense completely shut down Appalachian’s offensive efforts. Senior Jill Bennett
played especially well as she marked ASU’s top forward player, denying her the ball at all times. Junior Robin Pepper
had a strong defensive game, and goalies Emily Coleman and Mary Ferguson were both consistent, making key saves when necessary.

Davidson’s third game was...

See Hockey on page 15

Cat Nips

Charlotte's s

By Jason Byassee

Man, professional sports are changing. It wasn’t long ago that the Braves couldn’t beat anybody, the Hornets’ stars were Kelly
Tripucka and Kurt Rambis, and the closest thing we had to a professional football team in the Carolinas was the
Clemson Tigers. But darned if those days aren’t gone. People with power in pro sports have realized the shame in
leaving television markets untapped and tickets unsold, and have become dedicated to restructure and expansion. The resulting growth originally impacted
Charlotte with the arrival of the Hornets a few years back, and that franchise’s success has made owners itch to
invest anew in the Tarheel State.

Imagine a Charlotte with professional franchises competing year-round. The Hornets could spend the winter making a run at the NBA
title, a major league baseball team could entertain us in summer by competing with the Braves in the new-and-improved National
League East, and the Carolina Panthers could pass fall afternoons cracking helmets with the likes of the 49ers and the
‘Skins. The idea isn’t all that far-fetched. The crew that’s seeking to bring the NFL to the Queen City has
assembled an impressive roster of owners and financial planners, has sold enough ticket rights in advance to pack their proposed
stadium...and has the Hornets’ popularity to point out as evidence of area support. Jerry Richardson and his co-owners have picked
a cool name, the team colors of black and blue, and the great college stadium in Death Valley at Clemson
in which to play their first few seasons. More importantly, they have the financial backing of area powerhouses like Wachovia
and NationsBank on their side, a fact the Richardsons had kept secret until their presentation to the NFL last week
in Chicago. Knock on wood with me here, but it looks like the Panthers are on their way to the
gridiron. Soon the real dreaming will begin, such as trying to lure Joe Gibbs back to the sideline from his
NFL retirement as our first head man. And though it might take the Panthers a heckuva lot longer to start
winning than it took the Hornets, it’ll be football. And that’ll be enough.

Continuing our look at the future of Charlotte sports, the ‘93-94 Hornets are a tough bunch to analyze. They lost
a tough, accomplished athlete in the form of Kendall Gill, one who was being described as one of the “NBA’s
next great guards” only a few years back. Maybe an even greater problem is that fans will remember all those
wins last year (44), with the expectation of greater things than ever. Remember that the Hornets beat a Boston Celtics
team that was without the late Reggie Lewis, their captain and best player. Enough pessimism though. Hersey Hawkins, for all
Charlotte had to give up to get him (Gill and then some), should bring more offensive consistency to a unit
that at times forgot how to score last year. And all the sellouts at the Hive again this year will
continue to inspire owner George Shinn towards his next great project.

Shinn wants to bring a Major League Baseball team to Charlotte. And despite the addition of two new teams already
this year, baseball’s owners are anxious to add even more to the financial payoff that comes from expansion. Look for
a few years of Panther attendance success, coupled with Shinn’s sales ability, to convince baseball that it needs to visit
the Carolinas as well. Our little metropolis will be a bonafide sports town, believe it or not.

Now, I could conclude from this analysis of Charlotte’s professional sports future that the local economy will be enhanced (it
certainly will), or that expansion will contribute to the city’s growth in overall size and national standing (most likely), but
I won’t. Instead, I’ll ask you to sit back, sigh a sigh of contentment, and think again of having real
sports year-round. Peanuts and cracker jacks on summer afternoons, angry 300-pound men hitting each other in fall, and the Hive’s
customary electricity in winter. Let’s get ready to rumble.

Ian O’Brien scored his first goal of the year when he took a pass from freshman Fernando Campos and finished
perfectly. Unfortunately, Davidson could get no closer as Furman pulled away with 30 minutes left to capture a 3-1 lead
that would never change. Davidson’s record dropped to (3-4, 1-1) on the year while Furman moved to (6-0, 3-0), including
a 5-2 victory over South Carolina. See Soccer on page 15.

Rugby competes with Div. I top teams
By Dack Stackhouse

The Davidson College Rugby Football Club has had a tough schedule in its first season as a Division I rugby
team. The first two matches were against UNC-Chapel Hill and Appalachian State University, the number two and number one ranked
teams respectively. Davidson, fielding a team with many first-year players, played aggressively and on an equal level with the Tarheels.
Despite intense play, the Wildcats still came up short in the 24-10 loss. In the B game at UNC, however,
the Wildcats won 6-3.

Returning from a long road trip, the team worked hard last week in preparation for the match with the top-ranked
ASU side. Again, the Wildcats played very well, but ASU won 30-8, a score which does not reflect the game
itself. In the B game, ASU won again, 9-3. Davidson has played better than ever in its first two Division
I matches. With about 15-20 brand new players, the team has a promising future. There has never been so much
raw talent on the team at one time. With some practice and experience, this team in the near future may
reclaim the state championship status that it enjoyed in the early 1980s.

Obviously, it is a disadvantage to play away from home, so the team looks forward to hosting this week the
number three ranked Guilford College. Scouting reports indicate that ASU beat Guilford with ease, so the Davidson squad has an
excellent chance to win this match and perhaps earn a top-five ranking in North Carolina.

The first ever home game as a Division I team will be next Saturday, October 2, against Guilford College. It
will be played on the IMAC fields at 1:00 p.m. The B game will follow immediately, probably ending around 4:30.
Please come out and support the Davidson Rugby Club in their effort to break into the top five in North
Carolina. As always, the team can use more players. Call Edwin Thomas at x-6621.
