THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

The Davidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
WILL COBB - Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

WELLS BLOCK - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Time for a new house

Davidson has never been able to support three women’s eating houses. But we have only tried once, and for only
one semester. Now is the ideal time to start another house and to keep the three we already have. Consider:
Rusk is strong. It always has been and it always will be. Connor is settling down with overwhelming membership numbers.
Warner Hall, on the other hand, does not have an overflow of members, but it is still regarded highly and
as an attractive choice. With these three houses meeting the needs of many of our Davidson women, we are almost
guaranteed that many freshmen will join Connor, Rusk, and Warner Hall. But we need another choice. Not only would another
house ensure more representation for women on Patterson Court Council and SGA, but it would offer a social alternative for
women on the court. It would eliminate the overcrowding of the popular houses which keeps women’s houses from experiencing the
same camaraderie that the fraternities experience. Davidson upperclassmen can support four houses. Now the question is: can the freshmen?

For so long the freshmen class has divided itself into half, has split into two houses, and has left one
house with minimal membership. But now a computer will keep a balanced number of freshmen in each house, forcing a
division of the freshmen class. Does this system undermine the nature of self-selection, leaving the house selection not to the
individual but to a computer? Possibly. Women could adopt an invitation system as employed by the fraternities to divide freshmen.
But this system is no more self-selecting than the computer system. It is important that we attempt to maintain four
self-selective houses. After the January self-selection, we will know whether or not the freshmen are willing to participate in a
truly self-selected four-house Patterson Court for women.

We applaud the energy of the sophomores who are working to start a new house. We have seen similar efforts
exhibited two years ago by this year’s seniors and we realize the determination it takes to get a new house
started. You have your work cut out for you--not only to open a house but also to sustain a four-house
system. The history of women’s houses is a short one and should not dictate an impossibility of more than two
strong Patterson Court houses.

LETTERS

Davidson, stand for something

To the editors,

Is Davidson getting swept up in the “politically correct” movement that seems to be the popular trend right now? As
the three senators who voted against the October 26 SGA resolution to extend trustee privileges to non-Christians, we certainly hope
not. Most students first choose to come to Davidson because of an atmosphere and character that are distinctively Davidson. For
some, it is the integrity of the Honor Code. For others, it is the caring community of the college. While
not all Davidson students cite Davidson’s heritage and relationship to the Presbyterian Church as a reason for attending, nearly all
will mention a favorable attribute created as a by-product of that very relationship. The Presbyterian Church played an irreplaceable role
in the formation of what Davidson is today. To ignore and dismiss that role is to jeopardize the many attributes
of this college that are distinctively Davidson. We came to Davidson knowing it is a Christian school and happy that
it is not a secular school. There are many Williams’, Amherst’s, and Wesleyan’s out there, but Davidson has gained prestige
because it is unique and not just another secularized school where “anything goes.” If dissatisfied Davidson students read any promotional
material before deciding to come here, they should know that Davidson is unique in that it respects tradition. If we
had wanted an intensely secular school, we would not have...

See Church on page 10

A Modest Proposal

To the editors,

My joy at receiving the new Davidsonian was demolished--and then some--by...the letter from Dr. Kaylor, Professor of Religion. I cannot
know what the intentions were in writing such an ill-considered, non-parodic piece, but the effect, I think, is discriminatory. The
letter claims that the new Telephone Directory cover suggests an image of a dependent woman hanging onto the man at
the other end of the line. Of course, this interpretation is only offered to prevent the reader from seeing the
true meaning of the artwork. The text, addressed to "Sam," is not necessarily addressed to a man, as Dr. Kaylor
would try to have us believe. Like many white, heterosexual males in academia, he has created a restrictive interpretation in
an effort to cloak the obvious gay/lesbian overtones of the image, overtones Kaylor finds deeply disturbing, perhaps even threatening. After
twenty years of coeducation at Davidson, the woman on the phone and "Samantha" are sharing a moment of pride, a
moment Kaylor dismisses as weak only because of his insistence on a phallocentric, patriarchal—yea, testosterone-infused—view of the world. Perhaps Kaylor's
homophobia would be tolerated at other schools, but at Davidson we are an open-minded, multicultural, heterogeneous, politically-aware, super-duper-diverse community of
learners. Dr. Kaylor owes this community an apology, plus maybe some Ben & Jerry's.

Sincerely,
C. Andrew Peery

The reality of the invisible man

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan
mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The Davidsonian
requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all
letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey
Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by
the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

If I may I'd like to address Rafael and Travis directly regarding their Oct. 25 article. Rafael and Travis, upon
reading your article "Imagine," I sat back on the couch, closed my eyes and did my best to do just
that. I pictured myself as a black woman: what I might look like, how that look might change the way
I'd be treated, or the way I'd feel on campus and beyond. Of course such a reality, when not one's
own, is impossible to capture with the imagination, but I tried anyway hoping it might contribute to my understanding of
the Black struggle. I will never know what it feels like to be an Invisible Man. I often think this
is much to my own disadvantage, and definitely to my loss as a fellow human being of yours. Your feeling
of invisibility seems to be ever-present at this school, save in a few circles, and that is a terrible, painful
shame. Does it help for you to know that there are some visible people who know that? Do we have
the right to acknowledge your struggle? Sometimes I wonder if, as a part of the visible majority, my role can
only be one of silent submission and apology. Travis, last year you told me that I was brave for asking
Ce Scott's advice for whites when faced with "reverse prejudice." I asked a simple and honest question, unaware of the
possibility of offending her, which I did. Asking took no bravery, it took wanting to know; those two things should
not be synonymous. Her answer—she didn't know what I meant by reverse prejudice; "Dear Abbey" could give me advice—hurt me,
silenced me. I thought about talking to her afterward, but was afraid. Her response excluded me, not unlike your experience
in the classroom. I must thank you; your article has opened the door to the invisible and beckoned me back
in. I am once again called to imagine. I have read Ellison's Invisible Man, and although visible, I have the
ability to close my eyes and see darkness. But more importantly, I can close my eyes and see The Dream.

Sincerely,
Christy Block '94
