THE DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993 Vol LXI No. Twenty-seven The Davidsonian Published Weekly by Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

‘May 5, 1973) By MICH WILSON

Gretsten, the board also author. The Davidson College Trustees today unanimously

Trustees Give Unanimous Approval For Immediate Acceptance Of Coeds

Celebrating Women's Sports By Robert Lloyd-Still

This school year marks the twentieth anniversary of women at Davidson College. For most of those first ten years, Davidson women did not participate in intercollegiate athletics. Davidson’s women’s athletics expanded and improved drastically when the women’s teams joined the Southern Conference in 1982. In 1972, an intramural swim team became the first women’s team at Davidson. Since then, the college has added nine more. At the beginning of Southern Conference play in 1982, there were only four women’s varsity teams: tennis, basketball, field hockey, and swimming. Davidson added cross country in 1985, volleyball in 1986, track and field in 1987, soccer in 1990, and just this year welcomed women’s lacrosse.

Senior Women’s Administrator, Caroline Price, discussed the changes that she has seen in female athletics at Davidson since 1982. “I have seen plenty of changes in the past ten years.” Price explained, “The changes have been that Davidson now sponsors ten women’s teams, there is broad base participation, an increase in operational budgets, and all of this represents changes that help Davidson to be much more competitive within our conferences.”

In 1986, the women’s basketball program was terminated, but it was reinstated in 1991. Davidson has always been proud of its basketball tradition and this year’s women’s team is no exception. They have made great strides with major contributions from freshmen Erin Butcher, Maggie Young, and Tonya Sharpe.

For the past ten years, Davidson volleyball has experienced much success. Last year, team captain Mimi Plauche was named Big South Player of the Year. Like volleyball, the Davidson field hockey team has always done well, and this year they were one of the top teams in the South.

While these teams have historically done well, there is always room for new teams, championships, and titles. Although there is no women’s golf program, junior Katie Hammond will participate in various tournaments this year representing Davidson.

Perhaps the biggest accomplishment for women’s athletics at Davidson, however, came in 1984 when the women’s tennis team won the Division III national championship. As the number of teams increases and each team gains more experience, the future can only become brighter for women’s athletics at Davidson College. Certainly the men are not the only ones who can sink a three-pointer, serve an ace, or score a goal.

Source: 1974 Quips and Cranks

Mary Miller strikes a forehand early in the 1970s.

College Archives Show School Has Long History of Male Biases By Towner Blackstock

To most students, the idea of Davidson without women sounds foreign and distant. We have come a long, long way since the last century, when Davidson was an all-male institution for Presbyterian youth. Prior to the Civil War, women had little part in Davidson outside the purely social realm. The isolated nature of the campus made any nearby woman quite popular, however, as letters of the 1850s state. David Farley wrote in 1853 that “we have some very pretty young ladies - - educated, well accomplished, and refined such as you rarely meet up with... They are also wealthy, if you consider that an assistant ornament.” Another student, Duncan Buie, commented in a letter that he “had a huge time among the country gals. They think College boys are some pumpkins.” Apparently, Davidson men hadmuch in the way of (as Mary Beaty called it) “feminine society.” The daughters of the college presidents always drew much attention. Dr. Kirkpatrick, president from 1861 until 1866, brought his seven daughters to town and created quite a stir among the students. More notable to history, if not to the students themselves, were the men who married three daughters of Davidson’s first president, Robert Hall Morrison: Confederate Generals Rufus Barringer, D.H. Hill (who taught mathematics at Davidson in the 1850s), and Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson.

The very thought of coeducation was very nearly unthinkable in those times. In an 1888 Davidson Monthly article, a student editorialist reacted to unfounded rumors of coeducation by assailing the idea. In his eyes, women would be unable to “bear the mental strain and fatigue” of Davidson academics. He asserted that “It has been proved... that among our educated women a great many of the invalids can trace their decline of health to the time when they were in college.” Certainly, that writer would be surprised to find today’s Davidson women outperforming the men academically.

The inevitable social changes affecting women in society began to affect Davidson shortly after the Davidson Monthly article. While women had been invited for social events like costume parties, hayrides, oyster bakes, and the festivities at Commencement, only a few professors’ daughters had ever been allowed to take classes at Davidson, and never for any credit. By the turn of the century, though, several women attended, although not as regular students and unable to earn diplomas. Annie Brown completed all requirements for an A.B. degree by 1901, much to the surprise of doubting males, and received a certificate detailing her accomplishment. She didn’t get a diploma, though, and neither did Gladys Summers for completing the B.S. requirements in 1906.

The Trustees and faculty eventually had to come to grips with the academic prowess of these women scholars. In 1925, the Trustees passed a resolution stating their approval of “the traditional policy of the Faculty of Davidson College in not encouraging the entrance of young ladies,” but also asserting the belief that the Faculty “would not be passing beyond what seems reasonable and right if, when a young lady has done the work required for graduation from Davidson College, they would recommend her for a diploma and a degree.” The faculty tacitly ignored this resolution for six years. Finally, in 1931, they decided it was “inadvisable” to make the college program coeducational.

Wives of students and other women continued to take coursework at Davidson intermittently throughout the next few decades. Lura Owen, married to upperclassman Kenneth Owen ’57, supplemented her previous studies at Winthrop with Davidson coursework while her husband worked toward his own degree. Apparently, Davidson men found her presence quite a novelty, and she spent much time passing messages to the boys in her classes.

See "Women" on page 13

1837 - Davidson opens as an all-male institution.
1901 - Annie Brown completes requirements for A.B.
1906 - Gladys Summers completes requirements for B.S.
1931 - Faculty decides it is "inadvisable" to make Davidson coeducational.
1956 - Davidson hires its first female faculty member, Dr. Carolyn MacBrayer.
1969 - Faculty recommends that Davidson "become coeducational at the earliest appropriate time."
1970 - Davidson enrolls thirty female exchange students.
1971 - Davidson admits wives and daughters of students and faculty as students working toward degrees.
1972 - Trustees accept recommendation of coeducation.
1973 - Davidson enrolls its first full-fledged female students.
1977 - First graduating class of females.