4 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Is mountain biking the most popular non-alcoholic activity?

By Jay Jennings

Mountain biking has become one of the most popular new sports in the last decade. Although many students have mountain
bikes, there is not a good trail on campus for their use. Therefore, most of the bikes do not go
for their intended use of mountain biking and instead are used on the concrete trails on the Davidson campus. Students
with a real interest in mountain biking are forced off-campus.

Mountain biking combines exercise with adventure, which separates it from other individual sports. According to bikers, you’ve got to know
what you’re doing and practice. Like any other sport, if you practice you’ll get better. But what makes mountain biking
different from running or swimming and a lot like skiing is the thrill and the danger involved. However, this does
not mean that one has to be an expert to ride the trails; even a beginner can enjoy biking.

Mountain biking started in Marin County, California in the late 1970s when people took old Schwinn bicycles and tried to
modify them for trail use. Eventually, the company Specialized came out with the Stump Jumper in the early 80s, which
was the first mountain bike as they are known today. The mountain biking industry has seen a steady climb since
this time, and the business is still growing.

As with any trend, mountain biking has hit the Davidson campus. Some frustration exists among mountain bikers because of the
lack of trails on-campus. Senior Jim Livingston, an avid biker, said that he tried to convince Davidson Outdoors to build
a trail near the cross country trail where land has been cleared, but nothing has come from this. According to
Livingston, if enough interest exists on campus, one would think that a trail on-campus would not be too difficult to
get.

People interested in going to trails off-campus have three quality trails in the Charlotte area from which to choose. The
closest to the Davidson campus is at Beach Spring Mountain Bike Park off of Poplar Tent Road in Concord. This
park has a 4.3 mile loop and a two dollar donation is requested of each hiker for the use of
the trail. People with varying degrees of ability can ride at Beach Spring.

Cane Creek Park in Waxhaw, which is thirty minutes south of Charlotte, has an eleven mile trail. It costs one
dollar per car and then an additional dollar for each bike. Cane Creek has races fairly often, thus people interested
in racing should contact the park.

The other good trail in Charlotte is at Renaissance Park near the Coliseum. This park has a seven mile trail
for bikers.

The type of bike is very important for any rider. Cool Breeze Bike Shop in Mooresville suggests three bike companies:
Trek, Specialized, and Cannondale, which have bikes that have won awards in the last year. One could notgo wrong with
any of these companies. The type of bike one gets depends a lot on how much money is going to
be spent. Some bikes can cost well over a thousand dollars, but others can be bought for considerably less. The
wide tire design is essential for any mountain bike because they enable the rider to go over roots and logs
with greater ease. Suspension systems have been developed in the last couple of years and provide a smoother ride, but
it comes at a great cost. Another piece of equipment that is important is a helmet. Anyone who rides should
use a helmet to protect themselves from injury. Trek and Bell make helmets that reduce the risk of injury. The
trails in the Charlotte area mentioned above should provide interested people with an outlet to utilize their skills and their
bikes that are used only to go to class. As this new sport continues to grow, new trails will hopefully
open closer to Davidson and maybe one will be built on-campus. With the right bike and great trails, many hours
of enjoyment can come from this sport.

Sample this: The Samples’ latest album, The Last Drag. The Samples, a popular band among many students, will be coming
to Davidson College on Friday, February 11. The band is scheduled to perform in Love Auditorium at 9:00 p.m. The
cost will be $5.00 for Davidson students and $10.00 for the general public. This concert, as well as the concerts
held at Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics, are arranged by the Concert Committee, a part of the Union Board. The
Chairman of the Concert Committee is selected through an interview process in the second week of February. Students who are
interested in being a part of the Concert Committee can sign up during the activity fair or get in touch
with the chairman. This year’s chairman is sophomore Kelly Cunningham. She described the purpose of the Concert Committee: “It provides
for bands that students enjoy to come to Davidson so that students do not have to go somewhere else.” There
is a definite process in deciding which bands to bring to Davidson. The students on the Concert Committee formulate a
list of bands that they would be interested in hearing at Davidson. Then different factors must be looked at in
order to narrow the list down. These factors consist of cost and availability. Those students that work on the committee
admit that it is a lot of work putting on a concert. They all agree, though, that it pays off
because they have the opportunity to hear a band they really enjoy.

-Jenny Schroeter

FINALLY!!! NO MORE TRIPS TO CHARLOTTE!!!

HOME GROWN RECORDS

We Buy and Sell New & Used CDs & Tapes

Drive up window!! Call ahead and we'll have it wrapped and ready!!

ALTERNATIVE
WORLD MUSIC
CLASSICAL
COUNTRY
SOUL
JAZZ
NEW AGE
REGGAE
METAL
TECHNO
POP
RAP

LOCATED IN LAKESHORE MARKET PLACE
Behind 1st Charter Bank, Cornelius
896-7882
