THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MANDY CURTIS - Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

LAURA DENNIS - Production Manager
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Too Much Negative

In last week’s Davidsonian, an article ran on the round table discussion held by members of the faculty, administration, and student body concerning “cultural inclusiveness,” the new word for tolerance in the Davidson community. The group found plenty of reasons for intolerance, and specifically accused several groups of lacking diversity. By meeting's end, however, the group had come up with little more than trivial, ineffective ideas on how to deal with what they see as a growing problem.

The Davidsonian is currently running a cartoon created by the Union Board depicting two nuclear superheroes facing the forces of evil, the primary evil being apathy (see opposite page). Though creative and entertaining, the campaign accuses students of being uninterested and unwilling to help create a better campus. It is a cliched attack on the students.

Though these two groups have certainly served a positive purpose, they have also fallen prey to an all too common pattern on campus. Again and again, letters to the editor accuse students of being unwilling to attend meetings or hear speakers. Students don’t attend enough basketball games or yell too much during them. The faculty is at the athletic department’s throats and vice versa. People are infuriated over the changes in teacher course loads. Nowhere, if you were to judge by the general attitude of the campus, is anything good being done.

But there is. The SGA is making inroads with the Trustees on many issues. The Reach Out program is, as usual, bringing its varied and plentiful gift of service to the community. The Patterson Court Council is well on its way to becoming an effective voice on campus. Students are involved, and in fact, almost every student on campus performs some sort of service outside of their daily routine. Be it in their fraternities or eating houses, for the Union or for Reach Out, students are acting.

We need as a community to encourage this behavior rather than always attack others. We need to compliment each other rather than accuse each other of being intolerant or apathetic. We need to lead by example rather than accuse others of falling behind. Effective change can be accomplished, but not if the community is divided, not if we are squared against each other.

Enjoy your spring break. We’re going to the Bahamas. (Well, actually one of us is going to Memphis, but she wants to go to the Bahamas.)

Candelario Promotes New Union

To the editors,

Lately, the idea of a new college union has been a major issue on campus. Some may ask, “Don’t we have one already?” This should not be a valid question. The questions that students should ask about the Union are:

1. Why doesn’t the Union completely fill the needs of the student body and the community at the present time?
2. What does the Union need to make it more attractive to its students and the Davidson Community?

The college union should be a place where everyone...

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.in the community can interact comfortably. Presently, this is not happening at Davidson. The Union lacks the facilities to accommodate this interaction. Although the New Union Planning Committee has ideas of what the Union needs, the input of students, faculty, and staff is extremely important. To incorporate your ideas into the committee’s report, we will be holding various forums and passing out surveys after spring break. In the meantime, I would implore you to think of what we need in the Union.

Rafael Candelario ’94
Member
New Union Planning Committee

Greiling Responds to Ambroise

To the editors,

First of all, I wish to convey that Ms. Ambroise’s article had many good points. Minorities aren’t always presented in favorable or factual lights by the media. “Normal” sadly seems to mean “WASP,” and this is as unfortunate as it is xenophobic. At the same time, before I condemn all ads, think about the fact that advertisers are trying to reach the largest possible audience. Numerically, of course, this means the majority. I am not saying that minorities aren’t consumers, but I don’t think Madison Avenue purposely excludes them. That would not be good business.

Furthermore, television news programs engage in rapid reporting of facts. The facts are that such-and-such a crime was allegedly committed by such-and-such a person. It is simplistic to state that Dahmer and Bundy were newsworthy only because they were white males. Their crimes shocked humanity; they would have no matter what race were the perpetrators.

Lastly, many of the crimes committed in our major cities are by minority males. As an intern at the

See "Greiling" on page 7

Curran Corrects the Editor

To the editors,

The letter printed last week in the Davidsonian contains a paragraph that was edited to the point where it contained a paragraph that I did not write and expresses an opinion that I do not hold. It is not my view that “our individual acts of self-expression—including racist and segregationist ones—are to be valued and esteemed.” My letter to you stated that, “our individual acts of self-expression—the flags we fly, the bumper stickers we use, the words and symbols we choose to use and display—take on a public meaning that has a life of its own and that impacts others around us. No matter how benign our intentions are, we need to look at the ‘public’ meanings that the words and symbols we use convey.”

My entire point in writing the letter was to express the opinion that flying the Confederate flag could reasonably be taken to be a statement in support of the racism of the old South, and that therefore individuals who do fly the Confederate flag on this campus should think about the impact that such an action has on Davidson’s goal of achieving a diverse intellectual and social community.

Sincerely,
Angela Curran
Philosophy Department

Windham Attacks Course Load Plan

To the editors,

Say it ain’t so, Davidson. Tell me that there’s a new plan to reduce teaching time and increase research and publishing time for faculty was a bad dream, or a joke. Tell me that Davidson isn’t really planning to take a step down that fateful road which leads to incompetence in teaching, shameless self-promotion, and worthless “academic” publishing. Other top-notch colleges and universities are plagued by problems associated with the enormous pressure on professors to publish; at UNC, the teacher of the year didn’t get tenure because he didn’t publish enough; at Princeton, grad students teach most lower-level courses so profs can have time to do research. Professors publish articles that are often worthless, serving only as tickets or green stamps. Collect enough of them, and you get tenure. (Or a color TV if you prefer.)

Davidson’s outstanding professors are here because they love to teach. Its fine students are here because its outstanding professors love to teach. Even as a freshman, I had two widely acclaimed professors in 101-level courses. They were

See "Windham" on page 7