Che Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXV MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993 NUMBER 9

Albert Elsen gives lecture about the Burghers of Calais

By Josh Larned

On Thursday, November 4, at 8:00 p.m., Albert Elsen delivered an illuminating lecture on Auguste Rodin’s Burghers of Calais, amidst a sundry Davidson crowd in the Multipurpose Room. Elsen, a Stanford professor and former recipient of the Fulbright Scholarship, Guggenheim Award, and National Endowment for the Arts awards, is one of the world’s foremost experts on the works of the modern sculptor. He has written scholarly criticisms of the master’s achievements and has assisted in research for the Rodin Museum in Paris.

Elsen provided a detailed background of what he deemed to be Rodin’s greatest achievement. This rich history and context in which the masterpiece was created conveyed to the listening audience the intense struggle that Rodin underwent to remain true to his subject. Such a struggle was indeed great, as Elsen pointed out the fact that the artist was forced to operate according to the dictates and specifications of the Calais Commission. Nevertheless, Rodin resolved to portray the heroes of Calais (bourgeois men who, in 1347, turned themselves over to England’s King Edward III in order to save their besieged town) as saints and martyrs of everyday life who were as much constrained by their emotions as their actions.

Elsen suggested that such an original heroic depiction did indeed invoke initial outcries from the citizens of Calais. Particularly offended were the Committee members, who bluntly stated that, “the depressed attitude of the Burghers shocked our religious feelings.” However, according to the lecturer, such a portrayal was neither sacrilege nor a betrayal of artistic renditioning of the hero, as Rodin directly applied techniques of emotional expression that were prevalent in French medieval art of the fourteenth century. Thus, as Elsen suggests, “Rodin reintroduced the idea of a common history by calling the country’s attention to medieval gothic art.” Also criticized by the contemporary Calaisians was the emaciated look and the positioning of the subjects. However, Elsen asserted that Rodin felt it was necessary to depict the subjects as thin and weak in order to remain true to the actual event.

See Expert on page 13

First Union endows teacher education program

By Mandy Curtis

The Davidson education program will be greatly enhanced with a gift of $1 million from the First Union Foundation. With the new funds, the program will add mentor teachers and scholarships. Five First Union master teachers were selected. They are: Sue Centrell, a math specialist; Blake Carpenter, a French teacher; Janet Painter, a Latin teacher; Marie Rogers, an art teacher; and Sandy Brown, a foreign language specialist. Of these honored professionals in Mecklenburg County, four are Visiting Lecturers in Education at the college. They will be instructors and mentors to Davidson students in the education program. In addition to their regular occupations, the master teachers will spend 15 hours teaching their specialties and 15 hours observing students in classrooms.

Of the million, $300,000 will go to the master teacher program which will include student teaching activities, faculty development, course instruction and teaching materials. Also a part of the program are the four-year, merit-based scholarships for students interested in education. The rest of the gift will go here. Davidson’s education program enables students to major in a specific field while working to receive teaching certification upon fulfillment of education requirements. After completing the education program, they will be able to teach at the primary and secondary levels.

Information from aa Pastina’s article in Charlotte Observer.

Students find human skull

By Mandy Curtis

Who expected to come upon a human skull and thigh bone while smelling berries in the woods?by 1 Fratgeon

Trees on campus are designated by scientific and common names. Our campus is a tree museum.

By Katherine Hash

The college’s campus is officially recognized as an arboretum by the American Association of Botanical Gardens and Arboretums (AABGA). According to Mr. Irvin Brawley, Associate Director of Building and Grounds, the arboretum is intended to “enhance the physical beauty of the college and to serve as an outdoor laboratory for students, faculty and staff, the local community, and college visitors.”

See Tree on page 2

Seniors David Haslam and Sandro Vitaglione didn’t, but they did. A few weeks ago, Haslam and Vitaglione were back near the Davidson graveyard looking at tombstones when Vitaglione, tempted by a nearby fruit perfect for making wine, was drawn to the woods. He followed the smell that led him to a pile of dirt which contained strange white objects. According to Haslam, they saw “this round thing.” After turning the soil over, they found a skull and bone in the dirt. They assumed they were from an animal; however, upon closer investigation, the two realized that the bones were distinctively human. But what was so interesting to Haslam and Vitaglione, aside from the random discovery itself, was that the skull has a mysterious hole on the back side. At the base, there is what looks like a bullet hole. It might have been a “wrongful death,” says Haslam. He thinks the person was either “smacked” in the head by an object or shot by someone. Haslam also speculated that the bone and skull were those from...

See Skull on page 5

THIS WEEK

New women's eating house to open soon

By Christy Block

When Connor House officially opened in January of 1992, the founding members hoped to offer Davidson women four Patterson Court social options. Now, almost two years later, a group is trying to start another women’s house. Unfortunately, Connor partially defeated its purpose to have four houses on the court. Another women’s house—Spencer House—was forced to close because of the overwhelming number of women who joined Connor. More recently, Warner Hall has faced uncharted oceans of financial challenge because a majority of its members switched to other houses, especially Connor.

But sophomore Allison Sabel thinks Davidson can support four women’s eating houses. “Davidson women need a new alternative on the Court. There seems to be an interest, which is enough to give us the impetus to get things rolling by next semester,” she says. Sabel initiated the new movement. Forty upperclass women have expressed interest. According to the Dean of Students’ rule, this is enough to open officially next semester as a social house. Next fall they will open officially when they move into PAX house which the school will renovate over the summer.

The appeal of the house is a unique one: “We’d like to make it a distinctly ‘healthy house’ in terms of eating. The demand for vegetarian meals has still not been met to the satisfaction of many who do not eat meat or dairy products. Although the house won't cater to vegetarians by excluding ‘normal’ food, we think that this difference is significant. It is definitely a necessary one,” Sabel says.

An open discussion for anyone interested in joining or starting the new women’s house will be held at 9:00 p.m., Thursday, November 11 in the Union Multi-Purpose Room. This meeting will address possible names and other ideas for the house. “We’re aiming toward a different sort of house; one that focuses on its social and eating environment on a slightly different level."

NEWS: Criminal hides out at Lake Campus. Page 2.

OPINIONS: Humanity, kindness, or relativism. You decide. Pages 7-10.

SPORTS: Soccer, football face tough late season losses. Page 14.

ARTS: Scott reviews Tim Burton's Nightmare Before Christmas. Page 11. Rachel + Lil' Ed = True Love. Page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036