THE DAVIDSONIAN
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS - Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON - Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON - Managing Editor
ALICE FELMLEE - News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY - Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB - Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL - Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS - Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE - Editorial Cartoonist

The Davidsonian
Founded in 1914
"The South's Foremost College Weekly"

LAURA DENNIS - Production Manager
BILL BRYAN - Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS - Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM - Circulation Manager

Time for a New Union

First Union advances Davidson’s campaign to $112 million, the college plans to build a new facility, and a new Union Board has a vision for a new building to foster a more unified campus. All indications reveal an opportune time to decide that the next project for the College Facilities Planning Committee should be a new college union. A new Union that caters to all students as well as administration and faculty could provide opportunities for unified interaction and individual expression rather than merely offering an alternative social organization.

Recent glimpses of a unified and supportive student body suggest that Davidson would enjoy a more unified environment. For example, the 900 Room could not accommodate the large crowd for the Tibetan monks. Twelve hundred of us waited on the lawn of Chambers to hear Spike Lee. Davidson fans filled both sides of the soccer stadium chanting “red” and “black.” A new union could provide not only periodic large social events such as Midwinters or major concerts, but also a centrally located place to congregate casually. Most importantly, a new union would direct efforts to improve the morale that determines the overall atmosphere of a college. If we can unite our efforts, we could eventually see a new union and certainly enjoy decreased division as a result.

Support for Alden

SGA President Alden Smith ends his inauguration speech (see opposite page) by promising the campus “his best.” While this is certainly what should be expected of him, it is not enough. The position also necessitates an ability to oversee the countless numbers of committees and special interests on campus, as well as have a strong vision of the direction in which Davidson College should travel. Fortunately, Davidson has elected just such a person in Alden Smith.

Alden’s speech shows that he has set the problem of diversity highest on his list of priorities. In addition, his actions indicate a true interest in joining the voices of every student together into one which can be easily heard by the administration and Trustees and affect their policy making. For these reasons, The Davidsonian fully supports Alden and believes he can render the SGA a true force for positive change.

$21,037 and Rising

With the Trustees’ recent announcement of another eight percent increase in tuition, one might have expected an outcry of oppression, a revolt of sorts. The reaction around the College, however, has been strangely quiet. It seems that tuition increases have become all too familiar. Attacking the Trustees as insensitive to the needs of students, paying the increase in small coins as the students at UC-Santa Barbara decided to do (see opposite page), or rolling the comptroller’s office might be expected responses, but it is doubtful anything will really happen. Another example, perhaps, that in ways, Davidson is still just a “lazy” Southern college.

More than anything, though, the increase is another reminder of how much someone is sacrificing for us to come to Davidson. Four years here will now commonly cost over $100,000. That’s a lot of money. We should take advantage of it.

Support Women's Hoops

To the Editor,

On Saturday, January 23, a senior Davidson basketball player made a three-point shot with six seconds remaining for a victory of 64 to 62 over Division I Winthrop University. During the season, Davidson has beaten many impressive Division I teams at home. There was one major problem with all of these games. There were no fans. I’m not saying that the stands were vacant. There are always at least two sets of parents, the training room staff, and friends of the coaches and players. The faculty members in the crowd probably make up a higher percentage than Davidson students. That’s usually it.

Welcome to women’s basketball. I got involved with the women’s basketball team because I saw the energy and excitement that the Davidson community had for athletics.During the men’s soccer winning streak, how many Davidson students can honestly say they have watched a women’s basketball game? What is even worse is that I have watched everyone walk out of the Belk Arena as the women’s team runs onto the floor after a men’s game. Women’s basketball is as exciting as men’s basketball. The refs are just as blind (example: the Wofford game), and the women hustle just as hard. The shot clock only runs for thirty seconds, which keeps everything at as fast a pace as men’s basketball. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 states, “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be de- 

See "O'Brien" on page 7

College Arborist Asks for Your Help

As the new campus arborist, I have noticed and wish to point out several things to the students and faculty concerning the trees and tree work on campus.

1. Physical plant workers are here to serve the campus and its residents; as they circulate around the grounds, please give their vehicles leeway and refrain from blocking their passage with parked vehicles.
2. Please respect and avoid areas marked with signs, cones, or protective barriers so as to avoid bodily injury or unnecessary delay in completion of the work in progress.
3. Do not walk or drive under trees being pruned or otherwise worked on as tools or debris may fall and seriously injure passersby.
4. Avoid chaining bicycles to trees, especially in the dorm areas. Over time this will unnecessarily damage trees.

We are proud to serve the college and community and will gladly answer questions about our work as we are doing it. But please don’t walk up behind a worker with a chain saw or other tool as this puts one in serious hazard. We are currently undertaking major restorations of the plantscape on campus and would sincerely appreciate your cooperation in keeping 1993 accident-free.

Sincerely,
Murv Alleman
Arborist

Lindsey Corrects The Davidsonian

To the Editor:

I regret to inform you that an error of quotation was made in the last issue of The Davidsonian in the article concerning alcohol and its role in students’ lives. Whether a mistake in publishing or a simple misunderstanding, I would like to take this opportunity to express my view. I do not think alcohol is necessary to have fun at Davidson. I myself find that even the simplest meal at the Commons can be fun if you make it that way. I would hope that others here are open-minded enough to find fun in many different and varied aspects of college life also. I thank you for this chance to clarify my viewpoint.

Sincerely,
Beth Lindsey

OPINIONS

By Seth J. McLaughlin and J. Kyle Kinner

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Thank your lucky stars that Saturday’s paper reached us when it did. Otherwise, how could we report our shock and dismay to learn “Davidson’s decision to rent Belk Arena for last Monday’s UNCC-Furman men’s basketball game—at the expense of its own previously scheduled women’s game—has professors crying sexism.” Whoa, mama! It just seems like the good news keeps pouring in, don’t it? Barely a week after discovering that our tuition will rise a mere 8.umptyumph percent (as seniors, we’re leaving before that critical “Parents Mortgage Home” stage sets in), this dilemma leaps to the fore.

According to the CO, Athletic Director Holland felt free to pressure women’s coach John Filar into taking a dive, canceling the game. Although AD Holland claims that “no harm was done because the women were given the option of moving their game against Radford to late afternoon,” the facts don’t bear

See "Birks" on page 7