THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993 9

Let's Talk About It
By Marilyn Ambroise

When I arrived at Davidson I was an idealist. I remember my first days in the Commons, like I remember
yesterday. Often, at dinner my new “friends” called me an idealist. Soon the term idealist became synonymous with the term
weird. And later, my sense of weirdness was dismissed as a Northern characteristic. As the days went by, I began
to realize where I was and what was happening: I guess you could say, I had a revelation. I began
to ask myself if I belonged in an institution comparable to Davidson. As I spoke to several members of the
faculty, staff, and student body about my concerns, I was encouraged to transfer. Obviously, I did not take their advice
because, here I sit, writing this article. Many of you might be asking at this point, “Why didn’t you transfer?”
At that time I did not consider transferring an ideal resolution. “What do I mean by that?” Well, I did
not have a way of knowing for sure if I would bump into the very things that I was running
from at another college. In other words, I did not want to escape from the issues and questions that I
have experienced at Davidson. For I knew that if I ever planned to turn out well in this society, running
away could never be the answer. So as more days went by, I decided to keep my opinions to myself.
On rare occasions, I would have profound conversations with very sincere individuals. Often these very sincere individuals said, “Marilyn, if
you are not part of the solution, you are part of the problem.” For five semesters, I meditated on those
words. I began to confess them. A good man, by the name of Kenneth Hagin once reminded me, “When you
believe a thing in your heart and confess it with your mouth—then it becomes real to you.” Gradually, I came
to realize what the problem was. “What problem?”, you are still asking? Well, the problems are too many to list
in this single article. So for the weeks to come, look for my articles in the Davidsonian. Try not to
view me as a person who does nothing more than complain. I realize that I might be asking too much
from the majority of you, but please keep an open mind. “What will I talk about?” Very simply, the issues.
Whatever you think could fit under that category, I will discuss. But, let me warn you that some will get
very offended by what I have to say. When someone has to say what I have to say, many do
not like it. The truth hurts. But, someone once said, “Silence implies approval.” Therefore, I have to speak. Many of
you will feel the need to retaliate. Great! I am not an advocate of trouble, but of discussion and communication.
The circumstances demand we talk. So let’s talk!

Nomenclature Disease

When I first began writing for The Davidsonian, there were only two other regular columnists, and only one of those
columns featured a clever title. Today, there are many columnists, and none of them feature clever titles. Does anyone remember
how this Opinions Page Nomenclature Disease began? Mercifully, I don’t. I think it began in a manner reminiscent of the
way in which mushrooms grow. First, there is a singular fungi. With the aid of horse manure and toad piss,
there’s no stopping the little suckers. I’ve refused to be infected. My section editor’s attempts to seduce me into naming
my column were met only with the gagging sounds I made from my end of the phone conversation. I just
couldn’t see myself writing under the title, Bitchin’ With Spain. And Spanish Fly, well, I didn’t even get that far.
If those two greats can live without clever titles, believe me, the rest of us can do without. So please,
join me in fighting the real enemy, Opinions Page Nomenclature Disease.

Gull's Nest
Bill Gullan

Reflections: College So Far

Now is an appropriate time to reflect upon my first semester in college, where everything changes and our future takes
shape. Moving into 312 Watts was a helluva chore. The three ashtrays I had brought from home needed to be
strategically placed so that I could smoke on the phone, in bed, by the sink, on the floor, and anywhere
else I wanted to. The good part was that this was basically all I had to do. My mom set
up the computer, everyone outside carried our stuff up for us, and everything else fell into place. I was a
college student. Davidson is hard, they said. You'll have to work, they cautioned. All this running through my head, I
almost booted when I found out I had Humes homework before class even started. I found that Davidson is hard.
After the perfunctory (big word) and expected first month of hedonism, I worked and learned more than I expected to.
Exam time was difficult,but rewarding, as my “I'll study when a gun is at my head” mentality turned into “I’ll
study now and put a gun to my head when my grades come” attitude. The library was a blast during
this period. The third week of school I needed directions to get to the smoking lounge, but by exam time
it was my second home. It was also neat because I fell down the stairs and everyone clapped. They must
have thought I had tried to do it on purpose and wasn’t just a clumsy buffoon. They must have thought
the guy who did it on purpose later was either a poser or an uncoordinated klutz.

Another thing I had heard about was the Honor Code. It struck me as naive. But on the second day
when my professor gave a quiz and left the room it was put to the test. We all stared at
each other, laughed a little bit, and looked straight down and took our quiz (which I failed). It was an
incredible feeling to see the code in action and working like it was supposed to. From then on, I never
doubted it. My folks thought I was bluffing when they asked me how I did on an exam and I
couldn’t tell them, but the darn thing worked after all. I’m proud to be a part of it.

Another great occurrence was the Coastal Carolina game. We all know what it is like and I won’t cheapen it
with my inferior descriptive skills, but it was unbelievable. As the old song goes, “We'll have these moments forever but
never again.” All in all, it has been a great semester. Maybe I should have done more work, but I
plan to get at least a 3.3 GPA from now on. Davidson is all it’s cracked up to be. We
have a sensational student body, a capable faculty, a beautiful campus, Commons, and excellent facilities. All we need are cigarette
machines, especially in my dorm and in the Patterson Court houses. Hey, you drink, you smoke.

Deep Thoughts... The United States Can Learn From Other Countries' Problems

This semester I am taking a seminar on U.S.-Central American Relations. In the first meeting, Dr. Ralph Levering pointed out
several of the key features that characterize the tragic region to our south of which so many of us know
so little. Some of these traits resemble problems that currently besiege the United States: endemic political corruption, a tendency toward
violence, and the lack of national unity. I believe the latter element underlies the other two, in both the countries
to our south as well as our own. Levering pointed out that the United States is presently at risk of
devolving into a region similar to Central America—truly multicultural on the one hand, but beset by an unstable economic system
and a government that thrives on milking the average worker on the other. This lack of national unity is indeed
America’s deepest-rooted ailment and one which deserves the majority of our attention in the coming decades.

As each year passes, this country becomes increasingly diverse, with the influx of foreign peoples and cultures as well as
the begrudging acceptance (often forced upon American society by Civil Rights legislation) of those who have for centuries been repressed
by white male society. In some ways this is good because it forces us as a society to widen our
perspective of other cultures and enrich our understanding of what makes us all human. This process, however, is not without
its negative elements. By forcing established societal precepts to change and become more inclusive, we often throw out what was
ever good about those precepts to begin with. Those who benefitted in the establishment feel at risk of losing their
slice of the pie. They react by grasping for more than their share, at the expense of those around them,
in order to regain their former sense of security. Those who have been denied any of the pie up to
now feel justified in taking more than their share now. Both groups react out of fear, forgetting their responsibilities and
their regard for the welfare of their neighbors.

We have just witnessed the fruition of this type of mentality in the 1980s with the cult of greed and
the glorification of the individual consumer. We have also seen how this type of culture breeds social problems, as people
step across ethical boundaries in order to get more than their share. These instances range from the simple cheating on
one’s taxes to the colossal trend of underhanded business dealings and government corruption. All of this was part of the
package that came with the 1980s. Perhaps now we are beginning to swing away from this rapacious consumerism, but many
of the symbols of former times still remain. This week in Sports Illustrated, for instance, Rick Reilly wrote a poignant
article on the lack of sportsmanship in today’s athletics. He writes, “SO, WHO KILLED SPORTSMANSHIP IN THIS COUNTRY? Was it
the Atlanta Falcons’ Deion Sanders, who thinks it’s great fun to high-step the final 20 yards of a touchdown run
just to embarrass the poor players chasing him? Or was it his teammate Andre Rison, who loves to perform his
Highlight Zone strut after every touchdown, no matter what the score?” Reilly goes on to cite multiple examples from figures
in all facets of the sporting world (and not necessarily associated with the Falcons) who promote this same attitude of
me before you, whether friend or foe. Such behavior mirrors on a small scale the dilemmas facing Central American countries
today. There each ethnic group is con-

See "Kirbster" on page 10
