Che ADavidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXV TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993 NUMBER 3

College to install voice mail system for campus phones

New system will eliminate need for personal answering machines

By Katherine Hash

Beginning October 19, Davidson faculty, staff, and students will be served by a new Octel Maxum SE voice processing system. The new system, to be installed over fall break, will connect more than 2,000 people together through Southern Bell’s central office equipment in Davidson.

According to Bob Stephenson, Director of Administrative Services, the decision to implement the new system was made following increasing faculty/staff and departmental demands for a more efficient alternative to answering machines. The college decided to include students in the system rather than restricting access to faculty and staff because the system is more cost-effective when implemented campus-wide.

The system will retain features of Davidson’s current system including call back, three-way calling, and call forwarding. In addition, the voice processing system will provide “voice mailboxes” for every telephone line. Messages can be left and retrieved from any phone line on or off campus.

A caller has the option of sending a message directly to the voice mailbox or dialing the room and leaving a message in the box which will act as an answering machine if no one answers. A “stutter” dial tone will inform users that there are messages in their boxes. Students sharing a telephone line will each have their own box ensuring confidentiality and certainty of receiving messages not possible when roommates share an answering machine.

Faculty departments, college offices, and selected student offices will have access to a variety of other services including an automated answerer feature which would direct callers to a menu of features. Stephenson hopes that this feature will enable callers to get the information they need more readily. He expects this feature to be used frequently in the athletic and admissions offices where callers might be instructed to “dial 1 to place orders for NCAA soccer tickets” or “dial 1 to request an application.” Telephone menus will include up to four options with option one being the most popular and option four offering connection with “a friendly human voice” in the office.

Another feature allows the caller to record a message to be sent simultaneously to a previously identified distribution list, or group.

See Voice on page 3

Finally a real weekend

Kristin Garris enjoys some of the cotton candy offered at the Lunar Luau last Friday night. Photo by Phiderika Foust

Lunar Luau kicks off festivities on Richardson Field

By Court McBryde

The Student Union sponsored the Lunar Luau on Friday night, September 17. All students and faculty were welcome to the festival including games, food, and music. Lunar Luau has become a tradition at Davidson College “serving as a kick-off for many aspects of the Davidson College life,” according to student chair of the Union Board Merrill Earnest.

The activity operated as a prelude and catalyst to the freshmen’s first night down on Patterson Court, the upcoming athletic season, and other Union-sponsored events for the entire campus. Earnest comments that there are few times on campus when independents, Patterson Court houses, faculty, and freshmen can get together and have fun; this activity’s general purpose was to cater to that need.

Rain was in the forecast for Friday night, but stopped in time for most of the activities of Lunar Luau to remain on Richardson Field. At 10 p.m. Richardson Field began to fill up with students and faculty who intended to get a taste of Lunar Luau. Most houses on Patterson Court were represented with a booth. Kappa Sig had a dunking booth; SAE sponsored paddle ball and sold T-shirts; Phi Delt had a baseball machine; while Fiji and Sig Ep’s activities were unidentifiable. Inside Johnston Gym other activities took place such as KA’s shootout, Pika’s cotton candy service, and an obstacle course. Other activities included the cosmic orbital, ultimate frisbee, and volleyball on the field. Free food was everywhere and music blared from some student DJs. The annual fall Wildcats Pep Rally before the Lunar Luau was postponed to another date due to rain.

The next big Union-sponsored campusEvent will be “The Day at the Lake” on Saturday, September 25. Earnest said that this day will be similar to last year with food, games, and sun. He urged all students and faculty to put this date on their calendars.

First night down excites Court
By Court McBryde

On Saturday night, September 18, the freshmen class was exposed to an element of Davidson life they had not had the chance to experience. The Class of ‘97 waited three weeks until they had the opportunity to venture down to Patterson Court. This policy of having freshmen wait three weeks has been a changing policy for many years, said Dean of Students Will Terry. He claims the purpose of having this policy is for “the freshmen to establish their halls, settle into their classes, and to get the feel of Davidson College before being thrust into the court’s mayhem.” Dean Terry says the Patterson Court Council (PCC) requested this policy and presented it to the Committee for Campus and Religious Life. Julie Petty, president of PCC, says that the fraternities pushed for a revised policy of a three-week freshmen waiting period because of the rushing aspect. In the past, a longer waiting period of six weeks instigated a lot of undercover rushing. The fraternities and eating houses want to avoid this situation. For the fraternities, first night down on Patterson Court is a significant event.

Freshmen and independent SGA senators elected without run-offs
By Ashlyn Dannelly

For the first year, both freshmen and independent Student Government senator elections concluded on the first day of voting without runoff elections. Last Tuesday, the freshmen elected six senators from a choice of sixteen candidates; independent students had only four candidates for the four available spots. The new freshmen senators are: president Zik Joseph, Anne Bartholomew, Warren Buford, Josh Gaffga, Sara Beth Hamlin, and Justin Paschal. The four independent senators include: president Brad Hilsmier, Amy Burrows, Greg Fisher, and Heather Flint.

According to John Philpott, chairman of the Elections Council, a majority of the freshman class voted. Philpott also did not see anything unusual about the number of candidates for both races: “Honestly, no one was surprised by the number of candidates. It was a normal number.” However, some freshmen voiced their disapproval of the amount of publicity the race received. Freshman David Ross, campaign manager for newly-elected freshman president Zik Joseph, said: “I’ve heard people say, ‘What elections?’ I think I saw one sign that said ‘Vote Today’.” Philpott said that election information and results were “posted in all the freshman dorms as well as on the doors of Chambers.” According to Ross and freshman Alice Payne, attendance at the Candidate’s Forum in the 900 Room of the Union on Monday night ran from twenty to forty people. As Payne said: “There were no announcements about the candidate’s speeches. The only reason I knew about them was because my roommate was running.”

Plans to light campus
By Martha Knight

A walk around campus at night will soon be brighter. College administrators have recently designated funds for new lighting in certain areas on campus. This action follows requests made by more than five hundred students and faculty members. During the spring of last year, the SGA Committee on Campus Security recognized a need for improved lighting in particular locations as a deterrent for crime. Chairman Jonathan Orr says that he and his committee examined the problem and felt that it was necessary to bring to the attention of administrators. Students responded by signing a petition and sending letters of support to President John Kuykendall. This year the committee conducted a survey of 196 freshman women who were asked to respond to various questions concerning their views on crime at Davidson. Results released last week indicated that personal safety was an issue on the minds of many of the students.

See Lights on page 3

NEWS: Study abroad options. Page 4.
OPINIONS: Faller on "Life after Davidson." Page 9.
SPORTS: Football beats up on Rhodes. Page 14.
ARTS: Rachel examines the "Art of Body-Piercing." Page 11.
Artist Series brings acclaimed performers to Davidson. Page 13.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036