"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
The Davidsonian

VOLUME LXXXV
MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993
NUMBER 7

College celebrates homecoming
By Katherine Hash

Davidson alumni from the classes of 1910-1993 “came home” this weekend to join their classmates and current Davidson students in
the 1993 Homecoming festivities. From Friday afternoon through Saturday night, alumni and students enjoyed numerous pre- and post-game activities sponsored
by various campus organizations.

John Cook, assistant to the director of Alumni Affairs, was expecting over 500 alumni to return to Davidson and to
participate in the activities sponsored by Alumni Affairs which included those for the class of ’88, holding its fifth-year reunion,
and the Avant Garde, the classes of ’10-’43 who have already had their 50th reunions.

Alumni and students gathered on the back terrace of Vail Commons on Saturday before the football game from 11:30 to
1:00 for a cookout sponsored by Alumni Affairs. At 1:00 the Wildcat Parade, headed by the North Mecklenburg High School
Band, marched through Patterson Court and led the crowds to Richardson Field. Spectators were entertained by a skydiving exposition sponsored
by the Wildcat Club as well as by music from the North Mecklenburg band and Davidson’s own pep band.

The Davidson Wildcats took on a formidable foe, Randolph-Macon (4-2-1). The Yellow Jackets beat Davidson 21-16 with two last-minute touchdowns.

Halftime was marked by a performance by the North Meck band followed by the Homecoming Queen crowning ceremony. Each of
the Patterson Court houses and the Independents were represented by a Homecoming representative and their escort. The queen was crowned
by...

See Festivity on page 4

Friendly neighbors
By Court McBryde

Off-campus students and their neighbors are working on a "Good Neighbor Policy" designed to improve relations. They met to discuss
their problems at the last Davidson town meeting. Davidson’s Community Relations Committee drafted a letter that was sent to all
off-campus students. The letter included what the community expected of students living in the town. The committee asked the students
to suggest changes and sign the letter, agreeing that they are in compliance with the policy. Town Administrator Leamon Brice
comments that “the policy is not one to be enforced, it is more a list of expectations.”

Brice explains how this policy originated last year when problems began to evolve with the noise and behavior generated from
off-campus parties. He believes the town has borne the brunt of changing party policies on campus. The strict alcohol policy
in effect last year caused more students to go off campus for parties. About 15 students attended the town meeting.
Brice says the students were unaware of the type of things that bothered the neighbors. Off-campus student Rhen Otts says
that the community invited them to the meeting to “lay down the law of how we have to be responsible
and how the police are going to crack down on us.”

The off-campus students decided to write a letter in response to the situation. Their intentions are to inform all Davidson
students who attend off-campus parties of what is expected from the town. They want students to know that off-campus parties
are not equivalent to Patterson Court parties. RLO director Richard Terry has been working closely with this matter and is
currently helping off-campus students to draft the letter. When completed, it will be distributed to all on-campus students and the
Davidson community. Brice feels that both letters should make all students aware of the community’s expectations and solicit help from
students. He says, “No negative comments have been made about the policy from students, neighbors, or town officials.”

You can go home again
A crowd of almost 2,500 showed up to watch Davidson take on Randolph-Macon in Saturday's Homecoming football game. The team
suffered a tough loss to the Yellow Jackets in the final minutes of the game. The game was the central
event of Homecoming Weekend. See related stories on pages 3 and 14.

Street service comes from Reach Out
By Meg Wolff

Service opportunities and programs highlighting different aspects of service called “Into the Streets” will be held the week of October
24-29. The Reach Out program will sponsor the week. Each day focuses on a different area of service and is
sponsored by the Reach Out programs that work in that area. One...Of the purposes of the week is to inform
more students about opportunities for service and to raise consciousness.

Photo by Casey Rogers

Sobering events highlight alcohol awareness

By Mary Clare Jalonick & Jeff Fuller

Alcohol Awareness Week, sponsored by the counseling center, Residence Life, Patterson Court Council, Vail Commons, and the Union Board, was
a week-long event, October 10-14, designed to make the campus aware of the dangers of alcohol.

The week started on Sunday, with a workshop for the seven bartenders who work in the 900 Room. Led by
Kurt Holmes, assistant director of Residence Life, the workshop taught the bartenders how to intervene if a person has had
too much to drink.

On Monday, the “alcohol awareness banner” was signed and 15 different halls participated in the bulletin board contest. The bulletin
boards, which were designed by RAs, hall counselors, and students on the halls, presented different alcohol themes. 2nd Knox and
3rd Watts won.

Tuesday brought the human victim resource fair, the awareness poster showing, and the “putt-putt for MADD." The fair, held outside
the Union Cafe, consisted of people from different agencies around the area who have experience dealing with alcohol rehabilitation. The
poster showing was a national competition sponsored by Anheuser-Busch. Davidson only had one entry, submitted by Brad Johnson. “Putt-putt for
MADD” was held along dorm row. There were nine holes set up, designed by different students. Over 100 people started
the course but only 27 made it through, due to holes that were 12 to 15 par.

Wednesday started out with “red carnation day” in Vail Commons. Students who ate there were given the flowers to remind
them of the dangers of alcohol. Wednesday night there was an all-campus picnic sponsored by the Union, Vail, and the
houses of Patterson Court. Several houses participated in a mock-tail contest. The non-alcoholic drinks were judged by students. Six houses
participated in the contest. SAE served Strawberry Banana Daiquiris with a Twist of Lime. Warner Hall made Tequila Sunrise Without
the Hangover. Connor and Rusk both had drinks entitled Safe Sex on the Beach. Phi Delta Theta made Unfuzzy Navels
and Sigma Phi Epsilon called their drink Banana P. The winner of the contest was Rusk who received $100.

The highlight of the picnic was the mock accident. The accident was held in front of the Union Outpost. Four
emergency medical units came to “rescue” the victims of a supposed drunk driving accident. There was a car run up
onto the sidewalk, and Jill Bennett, president of Rusk, acted as the victim, laying on the ground in front. The
demonstration ended when the paramedics laid a sheet over her.

All in all, the week went well. Kurt Holmes, who organized the week in conjunction with Art Flagg of the
counseling center, was very confident. “I think it went well. This was the first time that this many groups were
involved, and I hope to continue that kind of thing.”

THIS WEEK

Several activities are planned with information about the Reach Out programs and problems in that area. On Sunday, October 24,
there was a homelessness sleep out in the back of Chambers beginning at 10:30. Monday features a study break in
the Union for Environmental Day. A table will also be set up in Chambers for students to sign up to
work in the recycling shed and to pledge not to drive on campus. Tuesday focuses on health, with HIV positive
patients speaking at 7:30 in the Big Screen Room. At the Coffeehouse in the 900 Room from 8:30 to 11,
donations will be taken for a safe sex video. Wednesday, designated Race Relations Day, features a speaker at 3:00. Thursday
will be Children’s Day, with Trick-or-Treating on Patterson Court with community kids and a 10 p.m. study break showing cartoons
and taking donations for the Ada Jenkins Center. The final day of “Into the Streets” week is Community Day, with
a coffeehouse from 9-10 a.m. in the 900 Room to benefit Habitat and a children’s carnival on the village green
at 5 p.m.

NEWS: AIDS affects college campuses. Page 4.
OPINIONS: Faller's back with a vengeance. Page 10.
SPORTS: Hockey won, lost, or tied. You find out. Page 14.
ARTS: Halloween is upon us. Towner explores a ghost. Page 11.

Country, country, country. It's everywhere.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036
