THE DAVIDPHONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993

Pauly Says: Hell With It, We've Got the Power!

Faculty Members Plan to Eliminate Fun on All Levels in Its Latest Stupidity, The No Fun Policy

By Shirley McLean

The new alcohol policy has triggered several other measures regulating students’ out-of-class activities. After noticing that the GPA of students
went up after the implementation of the oppressive alcohol policy, the administration is attempting to raise the GPA of students
even higher.

“Well, we just got to talkin’ about how much stuff there was for students to do other than study, and
we decided that it should be stopped,” said an anonymous member of the faculty. The wheels have been set in
motion to remove all forms of entertainment from dorm rooms. No televisions, Nintendos, or stereos will be allowed on campus.
The same source said, “They’re just way too disruptive. Students can’t study while watching television or listening to music. We’ve
got to get rid of these distractions.”

As it turns out, the faculty will not be satisfied until everyone has a 4.0 GPA. “There’s just no excuse
for anything else. We won’t quit reducing outside activities until everyone graduates at the top of the class.” He went
on to say that "We are doing everything we can to worm our way out of this one.”

Frat Death continued from page 1

...will not engage in playful gunfights which intentionally or recklessly result in physical injury to any person on College premises.
This includes BB guns.” Terry emphasized that the students responsible for the incident will not be punished en masse, but
“will be dealt with on an individual basis.” Urbino is not being charged with any violation.

When asked about the nature of the Douwsile "Scere Provation," Dean Terry remarked, “That’s for me to know and you
to find out.” When asked whether it wasn’t just an old joke he saw in a movie once that he
was using to appease the trustees and the local media, Terry replied, “No comment.”

The College has received a good deal of negative coverage in the local media over the incident. Reports on Charlotte’s
Channel 9 and in the Charlotte Observer have given the “murder” incident high profile. Chapter 5, Article 3 of the
North Carolina State Law defines “murder” as “to injure someone so badly that they stop living.”

At press time, the local and federal authorities were allowing the College to deal with the incident internally. FBI Agent
Smith explained, “We'd like to defer to the College in this instance, first of all, because the whole thing is
so bizarre, and second, because it saves us a lot of paperwork.”

Holmes said that one thing in SPE’s favor has been the very helpful response of the National Organization to the
incident. The more the National helps to resolve the incident with the chapter internally, the easier it is for Davidson
to pass the buck. “We are doing everything we can think of to worm our way out of this one,”
Newnam said.

A SPE brother who wished to remain anonymous (a different one from the one mentioned above) said, “Man, we’re bummed.
I mean, the thing was just supposed to be a game.” “We didn’t really mean anything by it. It was
just a joke. We just picked up the wrong guns.” Urbino was unavailable for comment.

Smile, You Could Be Dead Tomorrow

Join the ranks of the Almost Cool. If you wish you could get in KA but didn't, join us. We
play...sports well, too, and we have our own basketball court.

Kappa Sigma

We got the first letter right!

SPH President Goow: In the spring semester, no sporting equipment of any kind will be allowed. “I’m sick and tired
of seeing those gosh darned frisbees being thrown all over campus on sunny days. Why can’t they be reading Sartre
or Camus? That’s what I do for fun.”

The Residence Life Office will begin conducting random room searches next semester. Debate has sprung up over whether to include
the honor code in the No Fun Study All the Time policy. In fact, the SGA is debating just how
far the honor code will extend with the No Fun policy. Can someone be expelled for playing air drums in
California? It’s questions like these that are haunting the advocates of the policy.

Another debate has sprung up over whether sex should be included in the No Fun policy. After all, it is
quite difficult to study and have sex at the same time. “I think that students have no business having sex.
They’re wasting valuable study time. If they want to think about sex, then read D.H. Lawrence or Joyce Carol Oates.
You don’t need the real thing. Hell, I haven’t had sex in thirty years,” our anonymous source contributed.

If the act passes, then it will be an honor code violation to have sex while enrolled at Davidson. While
this may not affect the lives of very many students, the ones who do occasionally get laid are putting up
some resistance, as are the chronic masturbators. “Masturbation is not quite as bad as sex,” our source interjected. “At least
you have one hand free to turn the pages. And I don't want to be a hypocrite, and I just
couldn't have gone so long without... you know."

Student Found Dead After Recreation of Crucifixion

By Wonder Boy

Whatever the organizers of last week's recreation of the Crucifixion wanted, they never expected to get such a close redo.
But, when Ami Clueless was found dead, the group was really hyped. "We never expected everything to go so well.
Now we really know what the people in the crowd at the crucifixion felt like. I've never been so close
to God." That's what Yesur Clueless, Ami's brother and wife, said after they found her.

The group plans to recreate what happened in Waco, Texas last week, using the new kiosk in front of the
senior apartments. "We just hope we can find enough people willing to burn," said Clueless.

The Davidphonian, we don't care about mistakes.

Bedwetting

Thousands of families are seeking answers and reaching out for help for the bedwetting problem in their family. Nocturnal enuresis
(bedwetting) afflicts approximately 15-20% of school-age children between the ages of 4 and 16. Pee International has been dealing with
this major parasomnia and correcting it successfully for over 422 years. When a proper correction is achieved, an enuretic (bedwetter)
may learn to sleep better and more normally. If you have a bedwetter, you might like to see if Pee
International can help.

Dr. Roderick D. Carter
Dr. Anthony Foxx
Dr. Randy T. Nelson

"They corrected all my problems. When I was a sophomore and freshman, I used to wet myself all the time,
but since spending the summer at Pee, I no longer have any problems." - Ben Hayes (Rob Ukrop's Backup)
